THE MODERN COOK 422 Harry the VIII.’s Shoestring’s This kind of pastry is prepared in the first instance exactly like the last recipe, as far as folding the corners down. Then cut out a small angle from each of the parts that have been folded down, making it look like four bows joined together; wet the paste and place a small ring of puff paste in the centre of each. Brush over with egg and bake a light colour, afterwards glazing as directed in previous recipes. Fill a paper forcing-bag with some firm red- currant jelly, and use this to draw rather bold lines all round the angular parts of the bows, and also round the ring that has been placed in the centre; then, with another paper bag filled with bright apricot or greengage jam, fill in the centre of the bows: this kind of decoration produces a very pretty effect. Puff=Paste Plaits Give seven turns to half a pound of puff paste, roll out to the thickness of the eighth part of an inch, and then cut this into bands about five inches in width, and divide these into narrow strips a quarter of an inch wide. Take three of these strips, and after fastening them together at one end with a little egg or water, plait them neatly but rather loosely together, and when finished fasten the ends. As each plait is completed, place it on a baking-sheet, and when they are all ready, egg over, and bake them a light colour, after which glaze as usual. Just before sending these cakes to table decorate them by placing in the small cavities some dots of bright currant or apple jelly and some greengage jam. Apple Tartlets Make half a pound of tart paste (see p. 392) and roll it out rather thinly ; then stamp out twenty rounds with a fluted cutter suited to the size of the tartlets, and use them to line some greased moulds; fill each tartlet with a dessertspoonful of apple marmalade, cover them in with paste, egg over, place on a baking-sheet, and bake a light colour; when done, dredge over some fine sugar, and brown for a few minutes in the oven. Apple Tartlets (another method) Line the tartlet tins as above, then garnish them with quarters of small apples with the cores taken out, and afterwards parboiled in a little syrup in which the juice of a lemon has been squeezed; bake the tartlets, and when done, dilute some apricot jam with a little of the syrup; use this to mask over the apples in the tartlets, and then place a preserved cherry on the centre of each. Cherry Tartlets Stone half a pound of cherries, put these into a small sugar-boiler with six ounces of castor sugar and one gill of water, toss them in this, then leave them on the fire to boil for about five minutes; the cherries must then be strained off, and the syrup reduced to about one-third