DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL i39 manner, remembering that it must be kept sufficiently thick to be able to mask the fish with it. Then reduce the liquor in which the mullets and crayfish have been cooked to half-glaze, and incorporate a sufficient quantity of it with the bisque to give it flavour ; add a pat of butter, a few drops of essence of anchovies and lemon juice ; pour the sauce over the mullets, and garnish them round with a border of quenelles of whiting coloured with chopped and blanched parsley. Note.—Mullets should never be drawn; it is sufficient to take out the gills only, as the liver and trail are considered the best parts of this fish. Grey Mullets should be dressed in the same manner as red mullets; they are sometimes plain boiled or broiled, and sent to table with any of the various fish sauces in use: but this fish, from its want of flavour, requires most skilful cookery. The Grayling is seldom seen in the London market, although it certainly deserves to be better known; when dressed in the manner described for the preparation of mullets or whitings it will be found very acceptable. This fish is in season in the months of October and November. Whiting Poult, which in shape somewhat resembles perch, and in colour is like the whiting, having when fresh much of its silvery hue, is found to be in best condition during the months of November and December, although they are sometimes taken in the spring of the year. Partaking in a great measure of the same character as the grayling, it should, like that fish, be prepared for table in a similar manner to red mullets. The same method is also to be used in dressing gwynniad, a species of lake fish commonly found in Wales, Cumberland, and some parts of Ireland and Scotland. Fillets of Whitings a la Maitre d’Hotel Fillet three or more medium-sized whitings, cut each fillet in two, trim the ends neatly round, and place the fillets side by side in a buttered baking-dish; season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over them some chopped parsley, a little melted fresh butter, and squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over them; cover with a buttered round of paper, and set them in the oven or on the fire—from five to seven minutes will suffice to cook them; then take the fillets up carefully, drain and afterwards dish them up in the form of a close circle, pour some Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. 11) over them, and serve. Note.—Fillets of whitings thus prepared may be sent to table with any of the following sauces : Italian, Ravigote, Shrimp, Fine Herbs, Crayfish, Dutch sauce, Supreme, with Scallops of Lobster, or Oyster sauce; the dish is named according to the sauce used for the fillets. Fillets of Whitings a I’Orly Fillet two or three medium-sized whitings, and remove the skin from each by first placing the fillet on the table, with the skin down- wards, then inserting the point of the knife between the skin and the flesh; bearing lightly with the left hand on the filler, gradually draw the knife under so as to separate the skin from the fish without