285 CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE and roll in bread-crumbs; they must then be dipped in, or sprinkled over with, clarified butter, and again bread-crumbed, patted into shape with the blade of a knife, and placed in a stew-pan with some clarified butter. About twenty minutes before sending to table, fry the pieces of chicken to a golden colour, and when done, drain, and glaze over lightly, and dish up ; garnish with macaroni dressed with cheese, pour some essence of fowl round the base of the dish, and serve. Note.—This dish may also be served without the macaroni, and is then called a la Viennoise, in which case some quenelles of potatoes may be added. CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE Chicken en Casserole Line the bottom of an earthenware fireproof casserole with thinly- cut slices of streaky bacon, slices of carrot, and one sliced onion. Put in one ounce of butter and let it melt over the fire, then place in a ready-trussed fowl, breast downwards; let it take colour (a nice golden brown), then turn it and brown the other side. Pour off the fat in the casserole, add a small bouquet of herbs (parsley, thyme, and bay leaf), also twelve small button-onions, peeled, and fried in butter. Moisten with half a pint of rich stock or gravy and a gill of brown sauce. Cover the pan and place it in a fairly hot oven for about one hour : by that time the fowl should be quite cooked ; baste it occasionally during the process of cooking. Take up the fowl, strain the sauce and skim it, then put it back into the casserole together with the bacon and onion; put in the fowl after the string and skewers have been removed. See that the sauce is nicely seasoned. Keep the contents of the casserole hot until required for table, then place it on a folded napkin on a large round dish, and serve. Young Chickens, Austrian Style 3 chic chickens, r pair lamb’s breads, J gill olive oil, mirepoix, 6 small kidney potatoes, 1 oz. butter, 12 button-mushrooms, ^ lb. chicken farce, 1 tablespoonful concentrated tomato pulp, 1 pint Madere sauce, seasoning. Divide the chickens, previously trussed, into small joints. Heat up the oil in a saute-pan, and fry the chickens in this for a few minutes to acquire a golden brown. Wash and peel the mushrooms, toss them in butter, and season with salt and pepper. Mix the chicken farce with half the tomato puree, and shape by means of a dessertspoon into small quenelles. Poach these carefully in seasoned stock. Have ready a casserole or cocotte terrine (earthen- ware or silver-plated), range in it the chicken pieces, lamb’s breads cut into thick slices, and the potatoes and mushrooms ; season each layer, and sauce over with the Madfere sauce, previously blended with the remainder of the tomato pulp. Place the poached quenelles: