FISH ENTRIES 159 spread this preparation out upon a dish, about the sixth part of an inch thick, and when it has become firm by cooling, cut it out into pieces about the size and shape of the fillets, and egg and bread- crumb these in the usual manner. Just before sending to table, simmer the fillets over the fire, and fry the croquettes in hot fat; when done, drain both, and dish them in a close circle, placing alternately the croquettes and fillets; pour some Venetian sauce (see p. 8) over the white fillets only, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Provengale Trim the fillets of one or more soles, divide each, and place them for several hours in a basin with mignonette pepper, a little salt, lemon juice, salad oil, thyme, bay leaf, and two shalots. Then drain the fillets on a cloth to absorb all the moisture, flour them over, dip them in some light batter (see p. 56), and fry them in hot fat; when brown, drain, and dish up, pour either some Provengale, Dutch, Fine Herbs, Ravigote, or Maitre d’Hotel sauce under, and serve. Fillets of Soles a l’Orly Trim the fillets of one or more soles, and steep them for several hours in the same kind of seasoning as directed to be used above, substituting two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar for the lemon juice. Drain the fillets on a cloth in order to absorb the moisture, then shake them in some flour, dip in very light batter, and drop them in some hot fat, and fry them a light golden colour. Drain, and dish up in a pile, pour either some Tomato, Italian, Piquante, Ravigote, or Provengale sauce round, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Rouennaise Fillet two soles, divide each across, and trim them into heart shapes; mask over with a coating of d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5), and when this has become firm by cooling, bread-crumb twice over in the ordinary way; stick a piece of the claw of a lobster into the narrow end of each fillet, so as to give them the appearance of cutlets, and place them in a saut£-pan with some clarified butter. Fry the fillets a golden colour on both sides, drain, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a Rouennaise ragofit (see p. 45), and serve. Paupiettes of Fillets of Soles a la Cardinal Trim the fillets of two soles, spread them upon a cloth, and spread over each with a layer of quenelle force-meat of whiting mixed with some lobster coral; squeeze some lemon juice over them, and roll them up tightly to keep them in shape. Place these rolls of paupiettes in a sautd-pan, and put them in the oven to bake for about twenty minutes ; then drain the paupiettes, pare off the ends with a sharp knife, and dish them up on their ends, side by side, in a close circle, so as to show the coral; fill the centre with some Cardinal ragoftt (see p. 46), pour some of the sauce over the fillets, and serve.