THE MODERN COOK 334 Ortolans in Cases with Madeira Sauce These very delicious birds are in season in the summer months. Cut two fat livers of fowls and an equal quantity of fat bacon into square pieces; fry the bacon in a saute-pan over a brisk fire, then add the livers with a teaspoonful of fine herbs, and season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg; when all this is fried brown, add two or three ounces of panada (see p. 58), and pound the whole together in a mortar until well mixed; add one yolk of egg, then mix the above well together by pounding, and put the farce into a basin. Next cut six small oval croustades of bread, just large enough to hold an ortolan in each, making a slight incision round the inside of the edge of each croustade, and fry them lightly in butter; remove the inside crumb, line with a thin coating of the farce, place an ortolan in each, then put them on a greased baking-sheet and bake them in the oven. When done, glaze, and dish up, pour over some Madeira sauce (see p. 4) mixed with a small pat of anchovy butter and the juice of half a lemon, then serve. Ortolans in Croustades a la Provengale Place four or more ortolans in a sautd-pan with three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, a bruised clove of garlic, some chopped truffles, mush- rooms, and parsley; season with mignonette pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon ; fry them in this over a brisk fire for about ten minutes, adding a small piece of glaze and a tablespoonful of Espagnole sauce when done; toss the whole together, and then put the ortolans into small oval croustades of fried bread. Pour the fine herbs over them, and place them upon a baking-sheet in the oven for about a quarter of an hour that they may brown nicely; then dish up, pour some Provengale sauce (see p. 8) over, and serve. ENTREES OF WILD DUCK AND WIDGEON Salmi of Wild Duck Roast a wild duck before a brisk fire for about five-and-twenty minutes, so that it may retain all the gravy; place on its breast on a dish to get cool; then cut it up into small joints—comprising two fillets, two legs with the breast and back, each cut into two pieces— and place the whole into a braise-pan. Put the trimmings into a stew- pan with a glass or two of red wine, two shalots, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf, the grated rind of an orange free from pith, the rind and juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne ; boil these down to half their original quantity, then add a pint of worked Espagnole sauce, allow the sauce to boil, skim it, and pass it through a tammy on to the pieces of wild duck. When about to send to table warm the salmis without boiling, dish up, pour the sauce over, garnish with eight heart-shaped croutons of fried bread nicely glazed, and serve.