153 THE MODERN COOK prevent the sauce from escaping; place the cutlets upon a clean gridiron, over a clear fire, and broil without allowing the paper to burn; dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with fried parsley, and send some Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5) separately in a boat. Fillets of Gurnets with Caper Sauce Fillet one or more gurnets, remove the skin, and if the fish is large, divide each fillet into several pieces; place in a saute-pan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and put in the oven or over the fire to simmer for about five minutes, then turn them over, and when done on both sides, drain, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with small quenelles of the same kind of fish, pour some Caper sauce (see p. 21) over the entree, and serve. Note.—Fillets of gurnets prepared and dished up as the above may also be served with any of the following sauces : Italian, Ravigote, Maitre d’Hotel, Oyster, Mussel, or Crayfish. Fillets of Soles a la Dieppoise Trim the fillets of one or more soles, and spread them on the out- side with a preparation of fine herbs mixed with a yolk of egg; then fold them up, press them together, and insert the claw of a crayfish into the narrow end of each. Place the fillets in a saute-pan thickly spread with butter, moisten with the liquor from the oysters used for the sauce, and season with a little mignonette pepper and salt; cover with a circular piece of greased paper, and leave to simmer gently over the fire for about ten minutes; when done, drain, and dish up in a close circle, showing the crayfish claws; garnish with some Matelote Normande ragofit (see p. 45), and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Maitre d’Hotel Trim and flatten the fillets of soles neatly, take hold of both ends (keeping the whitest side uppermost), and bring them together, one overlapping the other; then place them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and a little lemon juice; simmer over the fire for ten minutes, and when done, drain, and dish up in a close circle; pour some Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. n) over them, and serve. Note.— Fillets of soles, prepared as the foregoing recipe, may also be served with either of the following sauces: Ravigote, Italian, Aurora, Pascaline, Crayfish, Oyster, Shrimp, and Dutch. Fillets of Soles a la Venitienne Skin and fillet two soles, trim the fillets, and place one half in a saut^-pan with some clarified butter, lemon juice, pepper, and salt, as before. Simmer the remainder (without trimming them) also with the same seasoning; when done, drain upon a plate, and allow to cool. Then cut up the latter into small dice, mix them with a little reduced Allemande sauce, and season with one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a pinch of mignonette pepper, and grated nutmeg;