BRAISED AND ROAST FILLETS OF BEEF 167 place the trimmings in a narrow oblong braising-pan, then put in the fillet, and garnish it round with a carrot, a stick of celery, a couple of onions with two cloves stuck in each, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay leaf, and two blades of mace ; moisten with a pint of either white wine or stock, cover the whole with a well-buttered paper, put the lid on the pan, and set the fillet to boil gently on a slow fire—basting the fillet frequently with its own liquor while braising, which will require about one and a half to two hours. Towards the latter part of the time glaze the larding with some thin, light-coloured glaze, and set the fillet in the oven to dry the larding, taking care that it does not burn or get too much coloured. In the meantime, strain off the liquor, remove all grease, and clarify it; reduce it to half of its original quantity, and then add a gill of good Espagnole sauce (see p. 3), one chopped shalot, a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly, and a teaspoonful of grated horse-radish ; set the whole to boil on the fire for five minutes, after which pass the sauce through a tammy or fine strainer into a bain-marie. Place the fillet on a dish, and surround it with groups of macaroni dressed with cheese in the usual manner; glaze the beef over, pour the sauce round the fillet, on which, at each end and at the centre, with an ornamental skewer, fix a turnip, cut in the shape of a cup and filled with grated horse- radish, and send to table; send some of the sauce in a sauce-boat separately. Fillet of Beef a la Macedoine Trim, lard, and prepare a medium-sized fillet of beef according to the first part of the preceding instructions; moisten with a pint of good stock, and proceed to braise the fillet in exactly the same manner; when done, glaze and dish up. Garnish round with groups of carrots, turnips, French beans, asparagus-heads, and buds of cauliflower—the carrots and turnips to be cut into the shape of small olives, or cloves of garlic, the French beans in the shape of diamonds. Sauce round the fillet with the clarified and reduced liquor in which it has been cooked, glaze the fillet, and send to table. Braised Fillet of Beef a la Jardiniere Braise a larded fillet of beef according to the foregoing instruc- tions, and when done, glaze and place it on a dish; garnish round with alternate groups of cooked carrots and turnips, in the shape of olives, round balls, diamonds, small half-moons, or any other suitable fancy shape ; intermixed with these, place also some groups of green peas, French beans cut in diamonds, asparagus-heads, and buds of cauliflower. Sauce the fillet of beef round with bright Espagnole sauce mixed with some of the essence in which the fillet has been braised (previously clarified and reduced for this purpose), glaze the fillet, and send to table. Braised Fillet of Beef dressed as Chevreuil (Roebuck) Procure a medium-sized fillet of beef, remove the sinewy skin which covers the fat side, trim it neatly, and lard it closely; then lay the fillet for a day or so to steep or pickle in a pan containing a