THE MODERN COOK 72 eye as it is savoury to the palate. When the consommt: is perfectly absorbed by the crusts, put them in the oven in order to increase their crispness, but be extremely careful that they do not burn. Just before sending to table pour on to the crusts thus prepared a Jardiniere, composed of small pipe-like pieces of carrots, turnips, celery, leeks, a few small button onions, green peas, French beans, asparagus heads, and also a few flowerets of white cauliflower. Only a small quantity of consomme should be put with the crusts and Jardinihre, as it is usual to serve up a tureen of clear consomme separately, from which the guests are served; a small ladleful of the gratinated crusts, etc., should be first put into the soup-plate, and some of the consomme added afterwards. Bread Soup a la Princesse Prepare the same number of rolls according to the preceding instructions. A few minutes before dinner add to the crusts one dozen small quenelles of chicken rolled into the shape of pieces of macaroni an inch long, half a gill of asparagus heads, and half a pint of boiling consomme. Send up two quarts of consomme in a soup-tureen, and serve as described in the last-mentioned soup. Soup of Gratinated Crusts a la Royale Prepare the crusts as before stated, adding one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese and a little mignonette pepper. Just before dinner- time lay upon the crusts (gratinated in the usual way) some shapes of chicken custard, described in the preparation of Deslignac soup (see p. 71), and serve up according to the preceding detail. Consomme a la Ferneuse Prepare the crusts as before described, cut one or two turnips into small fancy shapes, fry them in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, a pinch of sugar, and a little salt over a slow fire until they have gradually acquired a light-brown colour; then add half a pint of consomm£, and let them simmer gently by the side of the stove- fire until thoroughly done. When about to send the soup to table, pour the turnips thus prepared on to the gratinated crusts, and to them add a gill of young peas boiled green, and four or six white button onions boiled in broth. Serve as before stated. Consomme a la Beaujon Prepare the crusts as before, and when they are gratinated add a gill of reduced pur^e of young carrots; put these into the oven for ten minutes, and just before sending to table, pour over the crusts thus prepared a gill of large heads of asparagus and some shreds of celery kept ready boiled in broth for the purpose, and serve with the consomme in a tureen separately.