THE MODERN COOK 266 a half or two hours. When the ears are done, drain, and with the back of the blade of a small knife scrape off all the soft skin, trim them neatly, and with the point of a knife cut the white gristle of each into strips—taking particular care not to draw the knife through —so that when the thin part of the ears is turned down, the strips may form themselves into-loops or curls. When the ears are ready to dish up, fill each with a decorated quenelle or a round truffle, garnish with a ragout k la Tortue (see p. 44), and serve. Fried Calf’s Ears with Tomato Sauce Prepare the ears as previously directed, and when done, let them be trimmed; scrape off the soft skin from the upper part, and cut each ear into four pieces lengthwise; put them to steep in a basin with two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one of vinegar, two sliced shalots, parsley, bay leaf and thyme, and a little mignonette pepper and salt. About twenty minutes before dinner-time, drain the pieces of ears from the marinade, dip them in some light batter, and fry them in plenty of hot fat. When fried, dish up in a pyramidal form, pour some Tomato sauce under them, and serve. Note.—Calf’s ears prepared in this manner may also be served with any of the following sauces: Piquante, Poivrade, Italian, Gherkin, Poor Man’s, Provengale, or Richelieu. If, however, this kind of fritter is not eaten as soon as served, it would be better to send the sauce separately. Calf’s Feet a la Pascaline Procure a pair of calfs feet, separate each foot into halves by splitting the hoof with a knife, take the bone out, and scald in boiling water for five minutes; the feet must then be braised in white stock, and when done, drained, cut into pieces about two inches square, and put into a stew-pan containing some button-mushrooms and Pascaline sauce; toss them in this over the fire until sufficiently hot, and serve with a border of fleurons, or potato croquettes round the entree. Fried Calf’s Feet with Italian Sauce These are prepared exactly the same as Calfs Ears with Tomato sauce (see above), but substituting Italian sauce for Tomato sauce. Braised Calf’s Liver with Vegetables Choose three-quarters of a pound of fresh calf’s liver ; wash and wipe it dry, and then lard it through with strips of ham and fat bacon ; cover the bottom of a stew-pan with veal or other trimmings of meat, place the liver upon them, garnish with a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a stick of celery, and a bunch of herbs ; moisten with a glass of sherry and a quart of strong stock ; place a buttered paper on the top, cover with the lid, and set the liver to braise very gently on a slow fire for about two hours and a half, frequently basting it with its own liquor. When done, remove the liver into a deep stew-pan with part of its liquor, previously reduced