298 THE MODERN COOK Chicken Roulettes a la Duchesse Prepare an unsweetened choux paste, work it rather stiffly, spread it on to oblong pieces of buttered paper of even size, and poach in slightly salted water in a saute-pan or baking-tin. Have ready a rich chicken farce and some spinach puree, spread a thin layer of each on the poached paste, roll up, and arrange in a buttered saute-pan. Pour over a little stock, cover, and cook for about twenty minutes in the oven. Butter the inside of an oblong Neapolitan mould, and spread it thickly with chicken farce; put some seasoned spinach puree in the centre, and fill up the mould with chicken farce. Stand it in a pan half filled with water, cover with buttered paper, and cook for twenty minutes. Heat up half a pint of Supreme sauce and colour with enough spinach puree to give it a light-green tint, or, if preferred, use tomato puree to render the sauce a red tint. Unmould the border on to a hot dish, arrange the cooked roulettes in the centre, sprinkle with a little grated Parmesan cheese, and sauce over carefully with the prepared sauce. Place in a sharp oven for a few minutes, and send to table. Palmettes of Chicken a la Valoise One large plump fowl, 2 oz. butter, \ gill stock, \ gill cream, | gill Bechamel sauce, seasoning, 2 whites of eggs, ilr gills white Chaudfroid sauce, meat glaze, 8 oblong flat souffle cases. Remove the fillets from the fowl, free them from skin, etc., flatten them, season, and fry lightly in butter in a saute-pan. Add the stock, place a buttered paper over, and poach in the oven for ten minutes. Take up, drain, and press the fillets. With the remainder of the fowl prepare a light souffle farce, using the cream, Bechamel sauce, whites of eggs (previously whisked), and seasoning. Put this in a buttered plain mould (flat shape), and cook in a bain-marie in the oven. When done, unmould and let cool. Cut the chicken fillets into the shape of the paper cases; cut the chicken souffle in similar style, and sandwich them together with a little dissolved meat glaze. Mask each carefully with white Chaudfroid sauce, and decorate afterwards with thinly-cut fanciful slices of truffle and tarragon leaves. Place a little small cress or other salad, previously seasoned, in each of the cases; dress the palmettes upon this, dish up, and serve. The appearance of the palmettes is greatly improved by coating them when finished with a thin layer of half-set aspic. Galantine of Chicken Legs a la Financiere The legs must be cut from the carcases of two or more fowls with the whole of the skin from the back left on; then bone these entirely without dividing the leg, or, as is commonly called, the drum-stick part. The feet should be cut with part of the leg-bones left on, scalded, and the outer skin carefully removed, without tearing them; trim these neatly, leaving only part of the claws in, and stick them into the small aperture of the legs, whence the drum-stick bones