THE MODERN COOK 33° fat bacon upon each case. Twenty minutes before sending to table put the cases of scallops in the oven to warm through, then dish up, pour a little of the same sauce in each, and serve. Note.—Scallops of partridges may be dressed as directed for scallops of pheasants ; fillets may also be served in every variety of form directed for the treatment of fillets of fowls. Partridge Cutlets a l’Algerienne Split a brace of young partridges into halves; remove the breast and back bones, and pass the legs through the skin of the thighs so as to give the form of cutlets; trim without waste, and place in circular order in a saute-pan with two pats of fresh butter melted; season with mignonette pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and then finish as directed for chicken a l’Algerienne (see p. 283). Partridge Cutlets a la Maitre d’Hotel Prepare these as before, then mask with d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5), bread-crumb twice in the usual manner, pat into shape, and place in a saute-pan with some clarified butter; fry a golden colour, drain upon a sheet of paper, glaze slightly, and dish up; pour half a pint of Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. 11), mixed with a small piece of partridge glaze, under them, and serve. Note.—Cutlets of young partridges may also be dressed k la Pompadour, k la Marechale, or k la Valengay. Puree of Partridge with Plover’s Eggs Roast one or more partridges, remove the skin, pare off all the meat, and use the bones to make some fumet or extract (see p. 41); chop the meat quite finely, pound it in a mortar with a pat of butter and a tablespoonful of sauce, and rub this through a tammy or very fine wire-sieve. Put the purde into a stew-pan, add some of the fumet (boiled down to glaze), and, if necessary, a little Allemande or Bechamel sauce; warm the puree with care to prevent it from becoming rough, which would be the case if allowed to boil; dish up in a conical form, place six poached eggs or plover’s eggs (if in season) round the base with a slice of red tongue cut in the form of a cock’s-comb between each egg; pour a little bright Espagnole sauce over the pure£ without masking the eggs, and serve. Minced Partridge with Poached Eggs This entree is mostly served when there happens to be any roast partridge or pheasant left over from a previous day’s dinner: the same remarks may in some degree apply to salmis, although a salmi made with fresh-roasted game is preferable. Cut the meat from the birds, either into shreds, or very small thin scallops or dice; add a little pepper and salt, and as much Salmi, Allemande, Bdchamel, or Supreme sauce as will suffice to moisten the mince; some truffles, mushrooms, or red tongue, cut up in the same manner, may also be added. Warm the mince, dish it up, garnish round with poached eggs or potato croquettes, and serve.