THE MODERN COOK 458 while scooping out the pulp, and set the oranges on ice contained in a deep stew-pan ; fill three of them with bright-pink orange jelly, and the remainder with plain jelly. When the jelly has become firm, wipe the oranges with a clean cloth, cut each into four quarters, dish up tastefully on an ornamental stand, and send to table. Note.—Lemons may be prepared in the same way as above. Lemons filled with Jelly a la Bellevue These are prepared as directed in the preceding recipe, but are afterwards filled with alternate layers of lemon jelly and blanc-mange. They should be cut up in the same way as the oranges. Pine = AppIe Cream a la Suisse Half-pint double cream, 2 oz. vanilla sugar, 2-3 slices fresh pine- apple, | lb. nouille paste made with 6 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, a pinch of salt, and 2 yolks of eggs. Work the paste thoroughly on a marble slab, then roll it out as thinly as possible and cut it into strips about half an inch wide. Plunge them into hot clarified butter, and fry to a golden colour. Take up and drain the fried paste strips on a cloth or paper, dredge with vanilla sugar whilst hot. Whip the cream till quite stiff; to this add the pine-apple, cut into small dice, and sweeten with an ounce of vanilla sugar. Dress the cream neatly in the centre of a round dish, and range the fried nouilles round its base, which should be hot. Serve immediately. Peaches a la Reine Six fine ripe peaches, i| gills syrup, | glass Kirsch, 1 flat Genoese cake, | pint strawberry cream ice, angelica and glace cherries, and whipped cream for garnish. Skin the peaches carefully, cut them in halves, remove the stones, and poach them in the syrup for a few minutes. Add the Kirsch and a little liquid carmine or cochineal to give the fruit a rose tint. Take up the peaches and drain them on a sieve. Cut out as many rounds of Genoese cake as there are halves of peaches, scoop out the centre of each a little to receive the ice; sprinkle them with syrup and keep on the ice till required. Put a tablespoonful of strawberry ice in the centre of each round of cake, upon this place half a peach, and put them for some time in a souffle ice-box charged with crushed ice and salt. When required for table, dish up in a circle, garnish quickly with halves of cherries and strips of angelica and whipped cream. Pears k la Florentine Peel thinly about six small cooking pears, cut them in halves, core, and cook till tender in a syrup made with one gill of water and four ounces of loaf-sugar; flavour the syrup with lemon rind, clove, or cinnamon. Drain the fruit on a sieve, reduce the syrup a little,