THE MODERN COOK 344 and enough salt and pepper to taste. Stir until it boils, then add the cream and keep hot. Wash, clean, and dry the mushrooms, fry them in the remainder of the butter, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Put the tomato puree in a round dish, surround with the fried mushrooms. Sprinkle over the remainder of chopped parsley, and serve hot.. Tomatoes with Foie=Gras This is an excellent and tasty dish for which the remains of a Foie-Gras Paffi or a small terrine of foie-gras will come in handy. Select eight firm, ripe tomatoes of even size. Dip each for a few seconds in boiling water and remove the skin. Scoop out carefully the centre portion of each tomato. Chop the foie-gras rather small, removing all fat, and mix with three to four tablespoonfuls of stiff Mayonnaise sauce; season with salt, pepper, and paprika, and fill the cavities of the tomatoes with this. Place the tomatoes, cut side downwards, on a wire tray, and coat each with a thin layer of half-set aspic jelly. Dish up, and garnish the tomatoes with tarragon leaves, chervil, and truffle. Surround the dish with picked and washed water-cress, and serve. Cold Stuffed Tomatoes Dip for a few seconds six to eight small tomatoes (ripe but firm) into boiling water, and remove the skins. Cut each half-way through the centre with a round paste-cutter. Scoop out the pulp by means of a teaspoon. Place the tomatoes on the ice or in a cool place. Rub the pulp through a fine sieve and mix it with Mayonnaise sauce; to this add sufficient finely chopped ham and mushrooms, then fill the tomatoes with it. Put a slice of cucumber on the top of each, and a star-shaped slice of beetroot in the centre. Dish up neatly in a nest of small salad, which should be sprinkled over with a little oil and vinegar. Tomatoes au Gratin Chop finely 4 oz. of cooked cold ham, 1 oz. of beef suet or fat bacon, and 3 to 4 mushrooms. Mix these with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, add a grate or two of lemon rind. Fry these ingredients in a little butter, then season, and moisten with a beaten egg. Remove the stalks from four large ripe but firm tomatoes, wipe them, and cut each in half. Scoop out some of the pulp, which may, if liked, be mixed with the stuffing. Put enough of the mixture in each half of the tomatoes so as to completely fill same. Sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs, and place a small piece of butter in the centre of each. Bake in a fairly hot oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Mushrooms au Gratin Cut the stalks of ten or twelve large fresh mushrooms, trim the edges and remove the skin, then fill each mushroom with a similar preparation to that used in the last recipe; shake some browned