277 ENTREES OF VENISON Scallops of Venison Venison for this purpose ought to be kept until it has become quite tender: a piece of the end of the neck may be used. Cut the fillet from the bones with all the fat adhering to it, remove the outer skin, and then cut it into scallops—taking care not to trim off more of the fat than is necessary; place in a saute-pan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and fry brown on both sides; pour off all the fat, add some chopped mushrooms, a piece of glaze, and a glass of port wine; simmer the whole together over the fire for about three minutes, and then pour in half a pint of Poivrade sauce (see p. 8); toss the scallops in the sauce on the fire until quite hot, and then dish up with a border of quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80), and serve. Venison Chops Cut eight or ten chops, about an inch thick, from the end of the haunch or the best end of the neck, flatten them a little with a cutlet bat, trim them without waste, season with pepper and salt, and broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire, turning them over every three minutes; when done through with the gravy in them, lift them carefully off the gridiron without spilling the gravy on the surface, dish up with a little rich brown gravy under them, and serve some currant jelly or venison sweet sauce (see p. 16) separately in a sauce-boat. Venison Fry Cut the fry into appropriate-sized pieces, season with pepper and salt, place them on kitchen paper with a dessertspoonful of flour, then fry them brown and crisp in a frying-pan with some butter; when done, dish up in a pile with fried parsley round, pour either of the following sauces under it, and serve quite hot: rich brown gravy, essence of anchovies, Poivrade, Espagnole, Italian, or Piquante sauce. Roebuck Cutlets a la Chasseur Trim eight to ten cutlets in the same way, and place in a saute-pan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and set them in the larder. Wrap a small shoulder in buttered paper and roast it; all the meat must then be cut from the bone, chopped fine, and thoroughly pounded in a mortar with two tablespoonfuls of sauce and a pat of butter, then rubbed through a tammy or a very fine wire-sieve into a puree; this must be gathered up into a small saute- pan and placed with the cutlets. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets brown, pour off the fat, add a piece of glaze, half a pint of Espagnole or Poivrade sauce (if the former, add some lemon juice also); let the cutlets simmer over the fire for a few minutes, and dish them up; fill the centre with the puree, pour the sauce over the entree, and serve.