463 THE MODERN COOK Mince-Meat a la Roy ale To equal proportions of roast beef, raisins, currants, suet, candied peel, spices, and sugar, add a proportionate weight of stewed pears and preserved ginger, the grated rind of four oranges and lemons, and also their juice, a glass of old rum, a glass of brandy, and a glass of old port. AUXILIARY RECIPES Brussels Sprouts Soup One and a half pounds Brussels sprouts, 3 pts. good stock, 1 gill cream, 1 tablespoonful Brown & Poison’s cornflour, a small piece of soda, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Wash and trim the sprouts, cook them till tender in salted water containing a very small piece of soda (to preserve the colour), drain well, and rub through a fine sieve. Put the puree in a stew-pan with the stock and the cornflour—previously mixed with a little cold stock—boil up, and let simmer for ten minutes; take off the scum, season to taste, add the cream. Keep hot until wanted for table, but on no account let the soup boil again after the cream is once added. Tomato Soup One lb. fresh or preserved tomatoes, fish-bones and trimmings, 1^ oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, ^ pt. milk, 1 onion, 1 small blade of mace, 3 cloves, 1 bouquet garni, 1 tablespoonful crushed tapioca, pepper, and salt. Chop up the fish-bones, put them together with the trimmings in a stew-pan, add about three pints of water, the onion (peeled and stuck with the cloves), the mace, and bouquet; let it boil, skim, and simmer for about half an hour. Cut the tomatoes into slices, melt the butter in a stew-pan, broil them over a bright fire. Strain the fish stock into this, stir the milk into the flour and put with the soup. Stir until it begins to boil, skim, and cook slowly for half an hour. Season with pepper and salt. Rub through a fine sieve, boil again, stir in the tapioca, let simmer for another ten minutes, and serve. Cucumber Cream Soup Three large cucumbers, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 2 pts. chicken stock, 1 pt. milk, 1 gill cream, 2 egg yolks, seasoning, bread croutons. Peel the cucumbers, cut them into quarters, remove the seeds, and slice coarsely. Parboil in salted water, drain, and put in a stew- pan with one ounce of butter; let stew for about half an hour, season with pepper, salt, and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Melt the remain- ing two ounces of butter in another stew-pan, stir in the flour, cook it without burning, add the cooked cucumber, dilute it with the stock, boil up, skim, add the milk boiling. Cook slowly for twenty minutes. Rub through a fine sieve. Stir cream and yolks of eggs