CONSOMMES AND CLEAR SOUPS IN GENERAL 69 Scotch Broth Take two pounds of scrag end of neck of fresh mutton, trim it the same as for cutlets; take the scrag and trimmings, with two carrots, two turnips, one small head of celery, two onions, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme, and with these make some mutton broth—filling up with two quarts of either broth from the common stock-pot, or with water. While the mutton broth is boiling, cut up the neck of mutton, previously trimmed for the purpose, into chops, which should have the superfluous skin and fat pared away, and place them in a stew-pan, together with the red or outer part of two carrots, two turnips, two leeks, one onion, and a small head of celery —the whole of these to be cut in the form of very small dice ; add one ounce of Scotch barley previously washed and parboiled, and then pour on to the whole the broth made from the scrag, etc., when strained and the fat removed. Allow the soup thus far prepared to boil gently until the chops and the vegetables be thoroughly done. Five minutes before sending the soup to table throw into it a table- spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. Be sparing in the use of salt. Hodge=Podge1 Make the mutton broth as shown in the preceding directions, and in addition to its contents add a gill of green peas (either marrow-fats or Prussian-blues). Allow the soup to boil gently until the ingredients be thoroughly done, then mix in with them a gill of puree of green spinach and parsley; taste to ascertain that the seasoning is correct, and serve. Veal and Rice Soup Take a pound of knuckle of fresh veal, cut it into pieces—sawing the bones through. Place the pieces in a small stock-pot with two calf’s feet, a partridge (an old one will do) that has been roasted for a quarter of an hour; to these add two quarts of common stock or water. Put the soup on the fire to boil, skim it well, garnish it with one carrot, one turnip, an onion in which has been inserted four cloves, and one stick of celery; also a little salt and a few pepper- corns. Having allowed the soup to boil gently by the side of the fire for about three hours, take up the partridge, the calf’s feet, and also the glutinous pieces of veal, which place on a dish to cool in the larder. Then pass the broth through a napkin into a stew-pan, and after having taken off every particle of fat, add to it two ounces of Carolina rice, which must be blanched or parboiled for the purpose. Allow the rice to boil gently in the broth till it is nearly done, then cut the fillets of partridge into pieces about an inch in length and a quarter of an inch wide, take the glutinous pieces of the veal and the inner tendons of the calf’s feet, and cut these also in pieces in a similar manner to the partridge; put the whole into the broth with the rice, and after boiling them together for five minutes, send to table. 1 From the French Hochc-pot.