107 NATIONAL SOUPS with flour, set in a small saute-pan to be fried to a light colour, just before dinner-time. Boil two eggs hard, cut them in halves length- wise ; take the yolks out and pound them with one raw yolk of egg, a little grated horse-radish, chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; fill the eggs again with this farce, and having replaced the halves together, dip them in a beaten egg, and then roll them in bread- crumb, and set them aside to be fried at the same time as the small quenelles before mentioned. After five hours’ boiling, strain off the stock-pot; when every particle of fat is removed, clarify it in the usual way, and then keep the consomme boiling in order to reduce it to the quantity required for the soup. In the meantime, trim the meat off the duck and partridge into neat scallops ; cut the bacon and sausages into small round balls, and carefully place all these ingredients into the silver lining of a soup- tureen, keeping the shredded vegetables and braised beef quenelles on the top; keep hot until dinner-time. Then grate or pound a beet- root, place this in a stew-pan on the fire, and boil it up for a few minutes ; extract the juice by strong pressure through a tammy-cloth, and use it to colour the consomme, so as to give it the appearance of claret. Just before sending to table pour two quarts of boiling con- somme to the ingredients contained in the soup-tureen, adding a pinch of mignonette pepper; send up the fried eggs cut in halves, and also the fried quenelles, in a plate, to be handed round with the borsch. Ouka or Russian Soup Place in a stock-pot a pound of knuckle of veal, half a pound of raw ham, and an old hen roasted for the purpose; fill up with two quarts of common stock, set it to boil, and having skimmed it, garnish it with the usual vegetables, adding to these either two or three parsley roots or half a parsnip. After five hours’ boiling strain off the consomme and clarify it in the usual manner; strain it again through a napkin into a basin, to be set aside until wanted to finish the soup. While the stock is boiling take one pound of crimped salmon, one perch, a small eel, and one mullet; fillet and cut these into scallops, placing them neatly in a deep saute-pan; season with a pluche of picked parsley, chervil, and tarragon leaves (the latter in a small proportion), some boiled shred parsley roots, mignonette pepper, grated nutmeg, salt, and a glass of Chablis or Sauterne; having first allowed these scallops to boil on the stove for five minutes, moisten with a pint of essence of fish (made with the carcases and trimmings of the fish used for the scallops), let them boil quickly for ten minutes longer, and then pour the consomme on to them; after they have boiled together two or three minutes pour the soup into the tureen contain- ing eighteen small quenelles of whiting, in which a little lobster coral and half a gill of pur£e of mushrooms have been mixed. See that the seasoning is correct, and send to table. This soup is a species of souchet, and may be varied by using different kinds of fish. It is much esteemed by those who are fond of fish.