IO THE MODERN COOK Russian Sauce Having chopped and blanched a little tarragon, chervil, and parsley in equal oroportions, put these into one pint of reduced Veloute sauce thickened with two yolks of eggs. Just before using the sauce add a little grated horse-radish, a pinch of sugar, some pepper, lemon juice, and a little mustard. This sauce is eaten with braised beef. Atelets Sauce Cut one ounce of raw lean of ham into very small mince-meat; put it into a small stew-pan with half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, one shalot chopped, a little nutmeg, and a pinch of mignonette pepper; moisten with a gill of consomme, and set the whole to simmer on the fire for ten minutes; after which add half a pint of white sauce, and, having reduced it to a proper consistency, mix in a liaison of two yolks of eggs and a pat of butter; finish with a little lemon juice, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a basin. This sauce is used for covering all preparations for those entrees denominated k la Villeroi or a la Dauphine previously to their being dipped in the beaten egg for the purpose of being bread- crumbed. Polish Sauce Scrape a tablespoonful of horse-radish and put it into three- quarters of a pint of Allemande sauce with a teaspoonful of pounded sugar, the grated rind of one lemon, nutmeg, pepper, squeeze of lemon juice, a teaspoonful of glaze, and a little salt. Previous to using the sauce add a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley and fennel. This sauce is eaten with roast veal. Supreme Sauce There are two methods by which this sauce may be made with equal success; that most generally adopted is, to use a pint of reduced Veloute sauce which has been worked with a gill of essence of mushrooms and white consomme of fowls, and finished by adding a tablespoonful of cream at the last stage of reduction. The sauce should be then passed through a tammy into a bain-marie, and just before using it a small teaspoonful of chicken glaze, a pat of fresh butter, and a little lemon juice must be added. The other method, and which I prefer to the former, is to put a pint of Allemande sauce into a bain-marie, and finish it for the purpose by mixing in a teaspoonful of chicken glaze, one ounce of fresh butter, and a little lemon juice ; care must be taken that the Supreme sauce be not thick. Sauce of Game Supreme This is made like the previous sauce, except that, according to the first method, some essence of game must be used instead of the chicken consomme, and in the second recipe the Allemande sauce