ICE PUDDINGS AND FANCY SWEETS 429 and a half of iced custard as directed for the Stanley cake, except that this must be flavoured with vanilla. About an hour before sending the pudding to table, garnish the sides of the gaufres arranged round the mould with a coating of the vanilla-cream ice about an inch thick, and fill up the mould in the same manner; place a round piece of paper on the top, and cover with the lid; put the pudding in the ice-machine surrounded by the usual freezing mixture; cover over with a damp cloth, and leave in a cool place till wanted. The pudding must then be turned out of the mould on to a dish, and garnished round the base and on the centre with small almond gaufres, made in the form of cornets or cornucopias filled with a little of the vanilla-cream ice. Place some ripe strawberries on the top, and serve immediately. Iced Pudding a la Prince of Wales First prepare a pint of custard as for the Stanley cake (see p. 428); add a pound of strawberries, which have been passed through a sieve, and four ounces of castor sugar, and leave to get cold. Then freeze it in the usual manner in a cylindrical pudding mould. The pudding must then be turned out of the mould on to a dish, the centre filled with ripe strawberries, and served immediately. Iced Pudding k la Chesterfield Peel and grate a medium-sized pine-apple, add this to four yolks' of eggs, one pint of cream or milk, and four ounces of sugar; stir the whole together in a stew-pan over the fire until the custard begins to thicken; then pass it through a tammy, by rubbing with two wooden spoons, in the same manner as for a puree, or through a fine sieve. Ice the custard in the usual manner, put in a mould, cover, and keep in a cool place until wanted. When about to send the pudding to table, turn it out of the mould on to a dish; garnish the base with small gaufres, shaped like horns, filled with some of the iced cream reserved for the purpose, and serve. If liked, the pudding can be put back into the pine-apple shell, reserved whole for the purpose. Iced Pudding a la Kinnaird Blanch and peel three ounces of sweet almonds and one of bitter; dry them in a cloth, put them into a sugar-boiler, and stir them over a slow fire in order to brown them. Then add two ounces of castor sugar, and continue stirring over the fire until the sugar has melted and become brown ; then pound thoroughly in a mortar, and add the mixture to two yolks of eggs, two ounces of sugar, half a pint of milk, and half a pint of cream. Stir the whole with a wooden spoon in a stew-pan over the fire until the yolks of eggs are sufficiently set in the custard, and then pass it through a tammy in the same way as a purde. Freeze the custard in the usual manner