SAUCES IN GENERAL 25 kind of Mayonnaise sauce is considered as being the most delicate, and is particularly adapted for aspics of fillets of fowls, or any sort of white fish. This sauce also may be coloured by using for that purpose either some pounded lobster coral or extract of spinach (see p. 74). Proven$ale Sauce Pound one yolk of hard-boiled egg, together with four anchovies, a dessertspoonful of capers, tarragon, chervil, burnet, parsley, a clove of garlic, pepper and salt, a gill of salad oil, and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar; rub the whole through a tammy with a wooden spoon as for a puree; add a little lemon juice, and serve. This kind of sauce is well adapted to be served with broiled eels or fowls, and more especially with fish salads, in which case about a teaspoonful of chopped parsley should be added. Cold Poivrade Sauce Put a gill of brown sauce into a round-bottomed basin, add thereto two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one of Chili vinegar, a dessert- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, pepper and salt; work the whole well together with a whisk, then add a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and a little shalot. This sauce is good with plain boiled artichokes, and also for brawn, by adding a little sugar for the brawn. ■ Boar’s Head Sauce Grate one ounce of horse-radish, and place it in a basin with two ounces of red-currant jelly, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, the grated rind of an orange and lemon, together with the juice of both ; one ounce of pounded sugar, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, and two tablespoonfuls of salad oil; mix these ingredients thoroughly together, and serve. Another Method for making Boar’s Head Sauce Pare the rind off two Seville oranges, free from any of the white pith; cut it into fine shreds, parboil this, and drain it on a sieve; then put it into a small stew-pan containing the juice of the two oranges, together with a small pot of red-currant jelly, half a pint of port wine, and half a teaspoonful of cinnamon powder. Simmer the whole together in a stew-pan, and serve when cold. Brawn Sauce Mix together one tablespoonful of moist sugar, two of French vinegar, three of salad oil, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, some pepper and salt, and serve.