THE MODERN COOK 3° 6 rooms, grated nutmeg, and lemon juice; simmer the whole together for five minutes, and allow to get almost cold. Next trim off the corners from as many sheets of note-paper as there are pieces of pigeon, and after the paper has been oiled over, place the pigeons in them, dividing the sauce equally ; twist the edges of the paper neatly and firmly so as to secure the sauce from oozing out, and broil over a moderate fire ; dish up in close circular order upon a napkin or fancy dish paper, and send to table with some Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5) separately in a boat. Compote of Pigeons with Mushrooms Truss and then braise three pigeons with a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon. Peel two tablespoonfuls of button-onions, and after they have been parboiled in water, drain and fry them in a little butter over a slow fire without browning; they must then be drained, and afterwards placed in a small stew-pan with a dozen mushrooms, and the bacon cut up in square dice. With the stock from the pigeons, make a pint of brown sauce, and as soon as it has been sufficiently worked, add this as well as a glass of white wine to the onions, etc., and set the whole to boil very gently by the side of the fire for about ten minutes ; then skim off the fat, and place this ragout in a stew-pan with the pigeons. When about to send to table, make the compote hot, dish up the pigeons with a crouton of fried bread between each, put the pieces of bacon in the cavities formed between the pigeons, group the mushrooms and onions in the centre, pour the sauce over, and serve. Compote of Pigeons with Peas Truss three pigeons as for boiling. Parboil a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon in water for a quarter of an hour, and then cut it into rather large dice-shaped pieces ; put into a medium-sized stew- pan, and fry a light golden colour over the fire, remove on to a plate, and then put in the pigeons and fry until nicely browned, and place them with the bacon. Next add two tablespoonfuls of flour to the fat in the stew-pan, and stir this roux over the fire until slightly coloured, then gradually mix in with it a pint of stock; stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, add the pigeons, bacon, half a pint of green peas, a bouquet garni, and a little mignonette pepper, and keep the compote gently boiling by the side of the fire for about three- quarters of an hour ; then skim off all the fat and remove the herbs; allow the sauce to boil briskly on the fire, stirring it the while until reduced to its proper consistency, and then pour it over the compote. When about to send to table, make the compote quite hot, and dish up as previously directed. Fillets of Pigeons a la Villeroi Fillet three pigeons, remove the thin skin from them, and also the sinew from the under fillet, which must, however, be left adhering to the upper; flatten them slightly with a small cutlet bat or the handle of a knife dipped in water, and trim them; then