THE MODERN COOK 122 trout; then shake some baked bread-crumbs bruised fine over the whole, replace the fish in the oven for five minutes, and then send to table. Trout a l’Aurore Boil and trim one or more trout, mask them over with some re- duced Allemande sauce, put them on a silver dish, and then place a wire-sieve over the trout; rub the yolks of one or more eggs boiled hard through the sieve with a wooden spoon on the fish, taking care that the curling shreds which fall through the sieve cover the sur- face of the trout equally. About half an hour before dinner, put the trout in the oven to get coloured to a fine amber hue; pour round some Aurora sauce (see p. n), and garnish with a border of mussels fried in batter. Trout in Cases with Fine Herbs Procure as many small trout as may suffice for a dish, clean, par- boil, trim, and place them each in a separate paper case previously oiled, and then baked for five minutes for the purpose of hardening the paper to enable it to contain the sauce; add to each trout a small gill of Fine Herbs sauce (see p. 5); put them in the oven twenty minutes before dinner-time to bake, and when done, dish them up and send to table with some of the sauce in a boat. Trout a la Royale Clean and draw a fine trout, stuff it with some quenelle force- meat of whiting, stew it in a little Chablis wine, a few mushrooms, parsley, one shalot, thyme, and a bay-leaf, six peppercorns, and a blade of mace; when done, remove the skin, glaze, and put it on its dish to keep hot till required for dishing up. Then strain the liquor in which the trout has been stewed, reduce it to half glaze, add to it a gill of Supreme sauce, work in a pat of anchovy butter, a little cayenne pepper, and lemon juice, and then pour the sauce into a stew-pan containing six small quenelles of whiting and one dozen button-mushrooms. Allow the whole to boil together for a few minutes, sauce the trout, and garnish round with a border of croustades of quenelle of whiting, poached, bread-crumbed, and fried. Broiled Trout with Dutch Sauce Split a trout at the back, oil it over, season with pepper and salt ; just before dinner-time, broil it, and send it to table with some Dutch sauce (see p. 11) in a boat separately. Fillets of Trout a la Savoie 3 small trout, 1 glass Chablis, 2 oz. butter, f lb. fish farce (white), 12 small oysters, 18 champignons (heads only), duchess potato puree for border, x egg yolk, seasoning, £ pint sauce au vin blanc (white wine sauce), ^ gill well-reduced Tomato sauce blended with lobster spawn.