THE MODERN COOK 228 Chartreuse a la Parisienne First prepare some quenelle force-meat (see p. 59) with the fillets of a fowl; trim the tails of eighteen boiled crayfish, and then simmer these in a little clarified butter and lemon juice over the fire till they are done ; put them on a plate, covered with thin layers of fat bacon, to keep moist, until wanted for further use. Next butter a charlotte mould, and dispose round the inner angle of the bottom a close border of crayfish-tails; while up the sides of the mould some long strips, or pipes of black truffle (cut out with a vegetable-cutter), must be arranged alternately with the prepared fillets of fowl, so as to form a decoration representing the “ Grecian key border.” Round the top of this, which, when the mould is turned upside down, forms the base, place another close border of crayfish-tails; after which the bottom and sides of the chartreuse must be lined with a coating of the prepared quenelle force- meat, thus :—Butter a circular piece of paper cut exactly to the size of the mould, and spread over it a layer of the force-meat an inch thick ; smooth this over with a knife dipped in hot water, and then, with great care, take hold of the sides of the paper with both hands, and turn it upside down into the mould. Next cut three pieces of paper to fit in with each other, so as effectually to line the mould; butter these, and then spread them with force-meat, as directed for the bottom piece, and apply them in the same way to the sides. Smooth the cavity with a spoon dipped in hot water, and fill it to within an inch of its surface with a thickly garnished Toulouse ragout (see p. 43). Cover the top with force-meat, leaving the piece of paper on, and keep the chartreuse in a cool place till within two hours of dinner-time. It should then be put to steam in a deep stew-pan containing sufficient water to reach nearly half-way up the mould. The water must be kept continually simmering by the side of a slow fire, and the stew-pan covered with its lid contain- ing live embers. Note.—When this cooking process is performed in the oven no charcoal is needed to be placed on top of cover. When the chartreuse is done, turn it out of the mould carefully into a dish; cover the top with a border of button-mushrooms, placed near the edge, and in the centre put a star, formed with eight very small fillets of fowl, decorated with black truffles; garnish the base of the chartreuse with some thin Toulouse ragout, glaze the sides lightly, and serve. Chartreuse en Belle = Vue Butter the inside of a plain cylinder mould, and arrange round the bottom and sides a bold decoration, formed with black truffles and red tongue; after which carefully fill up the interior of the mould with some very delicate quenelle force-meat, prepared from the fillets of a partridge. About an hour before dinner-time, the chartreuse must be put on to steam, as in the previous recipe; when done, turn out on to a dish; fill the centre with a ragofit of pieces of partridge, in a rich Madeira sauce; glaze the chartreuse, and serve.