353 VEGETABLES AND SALADS the surface with about a dozen young carrots, glazed, and a similar number of small fleurons placed round the base of the dish. Serve hot. If liked, a few drops of lemon juice can be mixed with the flageo- lets just before serving, also a few small slices of cooked young carrots. White Haricot Beans a la Bretonne Boil half a pound of dried haricot beans as before, and when done, drain them in a colander, put them into a stew-pan with some Bretonne sauce (see p. 8), and leave to simmer over the fire for five minutes; shake well together, and dish up as above. American Yam a la Frangaise Scrub and peel a good-sized yam and cut it into slices about half an inch thick, trim into rather large oval-shaped scallops, and throw into a panful of water. Wash and drain them upon a cloth, then put them in a sauce-pan thickly spread with fresh butter, and season with a little grated nutmeg and salt; moisten with a pint of stock or water, put the lid on, and leave to simmer gently over a slow fire for about three-quarters of an hour, taking care to turn them occasionally that they may brown on both sides; dish up piled up in rows, pour the following sauce under, and serve:—Knead neatly one ounce of fresh butter with a dessertspoonful of flour, put it into a stew-pan with a gill of cream, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, a very little salt, and a teaspoonful of orange-flower water; stir this over the fire until it thickens, and then use as directed. Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel Boil or steam some small kidney potatoes in the ordinary way, and when done, cut them into slices about an eighth of an inch thick, put them into a stew-pan with a good gill of white sauce or stock, one ounce of butter, some pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and lemon juice; toss over the fire until the butter, etc., is mixed in with the potatoes, then dish up with crofitons round, and serve. Ribbon Potatoes Wash and peel thinly six potatoes, cut them into slices about half an inch thick. With a sharp knife peel each slice as thinly as possible into the shape of a ribbon, taking care that it does not break; tie it up carefully into a bow. Drop each ribbon, or bow into a pan of cold water, and continue to cut the remainder of slices as described. A few minutes before frying, take the potatoes out of the water and drain them very carefully on a cloth. Have ready a pan half full of clean frying fat, and when sufficiently hot drop in the potato shapes and fry a golden colour. If the pan is small fry only a few at a time. Drain the fried potatoes, sprinkle them with fine salt just enough to season lightly, dish up in pyramid form on a round dish, and serve. 2 A