THE MODERN COOK 3° sharp fire, rub it through a tammy on to a dish, and put into a small stew-pan. Just before using it add a pinch of sugar. When this pur£e is required to be made very firm and thick it is necessary to increase the quantity of onions used for the purpose, and to add a couple of hot mealy potatoes. f Puree of Tomatoes Cut one ounce of raw ham into small pieces, and place in a stew- pan with two shalots, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, two cloves, a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns. Add a small piece of butter, and fry these ingredients on the fire to a light colour. To this add either three or four ripe tomatoes, or a gill of tinned ones, and half a gill of Veloute sauce. Reduce the puree thus prepared on a quick fire; then rub it through a tammy, a*nd place it in a small stew-pan for use. Finish by adding a teaspoonful of glaze and half an ounce of fresh butter just before sending to table. Puree of Truffles First peel and then pound three or four ounces of truffles. Put them into a stew-pan with a pat of butter, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, some grated nutmeg, and a very small clove of garlic. Set these on the stove to simmer for a few minutes, then add a gill of brown sauce and a teaspoonful of glaze. Reduce the puree quickly, and rub it through the tammy on to a dish; remove it from thence into a small bain-marie for use. Omit the garlic should its flavour be objectionable. Puree of Mushrooms Prepare half a pint of white button mushrooms, chop them up, adding meanwhile the juice of half a lemon to prevent them from turning black. When chopped fine, place them in a saute-pan with a pat of butter, and with a wooden spoon stir them on the fire for five minutes; moisten with half a pint of good white sauce, reduce the puree quickly, and then add one tablespoonful of double cream. Stir the puree on the fire for five minutes longer, rub it through a tammy on to a dish, and from thence remove it into a small stew-pan for use. Puree of Brussels Sprouts Wash and boil two or three handfuls of Brussels sprouts; place them in a saute-pan with half a pint of good white sauce, a little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, a little salt, and a pinch of sugar. Reduce the whole on a brisk fire, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. Rub the puree through a tammy in the usual manner, and afterwards put it into a small stew-pan. Previously to using the pur£e, add a few drops of spinach-green, one ounce of butter, and, if liked, a tea- spoonful of liquefied meat-glaze. Puree of Cucumbers Mince one ounce of lean ham; place it in a small stew-pan with an ounce of butter, a little nutmeg, and a few peppercorns. To these