321 PHEASANTS pass through the tammy into a basin ; add one-third to the pieces of pheasant, and pour the remainder into a bain-marie containing some button-mushrooms and small truffles. Dish up the pheasant as usual, place the croutons (warmed in the oven and glazed) round the salmi, garnish with the ragout and sauce, and serve. Salmi of Pheasant a la Paysanne Roast the pheasant, just before dinner, with some crohtons of toast placed under it, cut it up into small joints, and dish up immediately; place the croutons of toast round the salmi, and pour the following sauce over it:—Chop three shalots, some parsley and mushrooms; put these into a stew-pan with a dessertspoonful of oil, thyme and bay leaf, and a little cayenne pepper; fry these ingredients over a moderate fire for five minutes, add two glasses of white wine, a small piece of glaze, and half a pint of good consomme ; boil the sauce briskly until reduced to half its original quantity, then add the juice of half a lemon, and use as directed. Salmi of Pheasant a la Chasseur Roast a young hen-pheasant, cut it up as usual, and put the fillets, the pieces of the breast and back, into a stew-pan—using the legs to make some puree with. Prepare a Salmi sauce (see p. 4) with four shalots and some parsley, chopped and parboiled, which are to be added, together with the juice of half a lemon when sending to table. Warm the salmi in the sauce, dish up in a pyramidal form, garnish round with half-a-dozen small croustades of fried bread, about an inch and a half high and the same in diameter, filled with the puree; pour the sauce over, and serve. Escallops of Pheasant a la Richelieu Fillet a pheasant, remove the sinews without trimming, and simmer the fillets in a sautd-pan with a little butter, pepper, and salt; then cut them into escallops, and put these into a stew-pan with some Richelieu ragout (see p. 47). just before sending to table, warm the escallops without letting them boil; dish up, garnish with croquettes made with the legs, and serve. Escallops of Pheasant a la Victoria Fillet a young pheasant, and prepare the escallops as directed in the previous recipe. Make some puree with the legs-—this must be kept stiff, and mixed with one-third of its quantity of reduced Allemande sauce; then spread out half an inch in thickness upon a dish, and, when cold, cut into small heart-shaped croquettes, egged and bread-crumbed in the usual manner. Use the carcase to make some essence with, which, after being reduced to glaze, must be mixed with half a pint of Supreme sauce (see p. 10) and poured on the escallops. Ten minutes before sending to table fry the croquettes of puree, dish up the escallops in the form of a dome, place the croquettes in a close circle round the entree, and serve. Y