453 JELLIES AND FRUIT DISHES mould, a gill and a half of any kind of liqueur: and if the jelly be too stiff, a little thin syrup may also be added. It may also be used for making fruit jellies, with the addition of a pint of the filtered juice of currants, raspberries, cherries or strawberries, or half a pint of the clarified infusion syrup of peaches, apricots, or pine-apples. Orange Jelly made with Calf’s=Foot Stock To two quarts of calPs-foot jelly add twelve ounces of. loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons, the rind and juice of eight oranges; put the stew-pan on the fire to melt the stock, and then pour in the whipped whites of two eggs, and continue whisking the jelly on the fire until it begins to simmer. Then leave by the side of the fire, covered with the stew-pan lid, to continue simmering for ten or fifteen minutes: the jelly must then be passed through the bag in the usual way, and just before putting it into the mould, a few drops of prepared cochineal or carmine colouring should be added to give an orange-pink tinge. Note.—Lemon jelly is prepared in the same way as above, substituting lemons for oranges, but adding rather more sugar. Clarified Syrup for Jellies To every half-pound of the finest loaf-sugar add a pint of water; and when the sugar is dissolved, add half the white of an egg whipped up stiffly, whisk the whole well together, set the stew-pan on the fire, and as soon as the syrup begins to boil, leave it by the side of the fire to continue gently boiling until it has thrown up all the scum; remove this as it rises to the surface, and then strain the syrup into a basin, and keep in a cool place for use. Chartreuse of Fruit Line a fluted jelly mould, with a pipe in the centre, with a layer of wine jelly, and decorate the bottom with halves of glacd cherries, grapes, and slices of bananas; cover this with a layer of jelly, and when set or nearly so, put in a layer of fruit, such as peeled and sliced bananas, orange or Tangerine sections (the pips having been previously removed), white and black grapes (from which the seeds have been removed); cover each layer of fruit with jelly, and continue this till the mould is completely filled. The mould should be placed in a pan on a bed of crushed ice. When firm enough, dip the mould in tepid water for a few seconds, and unmould the shape on to a cold dish. Fill the centre with stiffly whipped slightly sweetened cream. The dish is then ready for serving. Orange Jelly k l’Anglaise Rub the rind of four oranges upon four ounces of the best loaf- sugar and put this into a basin ; then squeeze the juice from the oranges and one lemon, and add this to the sugar. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass or gelatine in a pint of water with the juice and sugar in a sugar-boiler, add six drops of prepared cochineal or carmine colouring,