VEGETABLES AND SALADS 339 Roast Black = Game and Grouse Both these birds should be trussed in the same way as pheasants, then roasted, and, five minutes before taking up, should be frothed with flour and butter according to the directions for roast hare; when done, dish up with gravy under, and send to table with fried bread-crumbs and Bread sauce. Pea = Hens Truss these in the same way as pheasants, except that the head must be left on and fastened at the side of the thigh; let the pea-hen be closely larded all over the breast, and roasted before a moderate fire or in an oven for about an hour; when nearly done, glaze the larding, dish up with water-cress, pour some gravy under, and serve with Bread sauce separately. Guinea=Fowls These may either be larded or covered with a layer of fat bacon; roast them for about forty minutes, glaze, and dish up with water- cress ; pour some gravy under, and serve Bread sauce separately. VEGETABLES AND SALADS Stuffed Aubergines Four medium-sized aubergines (egg-plants), 2 oz. butter, 6 mush- rooms, 2 chopped shalots, 1 oz. lean bacon, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 oz. suet, 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 egg, salt, pepper, 1 gill Demi-glace sauce. Cut the aubergines or egg-plants lengthwise in halves, remove a portion of the interior to make room for the stuffing. Chop finely the bacon, mushrooms, and suet. Put the butter and bacon in a saute-pan; when hot, add the shalots and fry a little. Mix in a basin the suet, parsley, bread-crumbs (previously soaked in a little milk), and Parmesan cheese. Season with pepper and salt, add butter and shalots, also the yolk of an egg, or, if found necessary, the whole egg. Mix well, then put the stuffing in the aubergines. Range them in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle with a mixture of bread-crumbs and grated cheese, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Dish up and serve with Demi-glace sauce. Braised Celery with Espagnole Sauce Trim and wash four heads of celery, cut them about three inches in length, and trim the roots neatly, removing the green parts; parboil them in water for ten minutes, and then plunge into cold water; drain them on a sieve, and afterwards place them in a braise-pan with some white stock and braise them gently over a slow fire for about forty minutes; when done, drain, trim, and dish them up; garnish with some small circular croustades of fried bread, about an inch in diameter, and filled with small pieces of beef marrow (previously