279 ENTREES OF POULTRY melt in a stew-pan, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir the roux over the fire for three minutes without allowing it to brown; it should then be removed from the fire, and a pint of the chicken- broth poured slowly into it. The whole must be thoroughly mixed together into a smooth sauce. Stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, then set it by the side to continue gently boiling to throw up the scum. When the sauce has boiled half an hour, skim it, reduce by further boiling to its proper consistency, and then incorporate with it a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with a pat of butter and a tablespoonful of cream: set the liaison in the sauce by stirring it over the fire until it nearly boils, then pass it through a tammy into the stew-pan containing the pieces of chicken, and add half a pint of prepared button-mushrooms. When about to send to table, warm the fricassee without allowing it to boil, and dish up as follows:— Put the pieces of the back in the centre of the dish, place the legs at the angles, the bones pointed inwardly ; place the fillets upon these, and then set the pieces of breast on the top; pour the sauce over, and place the mushrooms about the fricassee in groups; garnish with eight or ten glazed crofitons of fried bread cut in the form of hearts, and serve. Note.—Truffles cut into slices or shaped in the form of olives, crayfish-tails, button-onions, or artichoke-bottoms cut into small pointed quarters may also be served with a fricassee of chicken. Fricassee of Chicken a la St. Lambert Cut into small dice the following vegetables, etc.: one carrot, an. onion, one or two sticks of celery, and two ounces of raw ham; put these into a stew-pan with a small piece of butter, half a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, three cloves, a blade of mace, and a few pepper- corns ; stir over a slow fire for about ten minutes, without allowing the vegetables to brown, then moisten with a glass or two of French white wine and a pint of ordinary stock; boil this gently for half an hour, and then strain through a sieve into a basin. Next cut the chicken up as directed in the previous recipe ; melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, throw in the pieces of chicken, and toss them over the fire until they feel firm to the touch without browning; then shake in two tablespoonfuls of flour, toss the whole together over the fire for two minutes, and pour in a pint of the liquor prepared for the purpose; stir the fricassee over the fire until it boils, and finish as before. When about to send to table, warm and dish up the fricassee; garnish the dish with small groups of glazed carrots, turnips, and French beans cut into small fanciful shapes: pour the sauce round the entree, and serve. Fricassee of Chicken & la Dauphine Prepare a fricassde in the same manner as described on p. 278, and place the pieces of chicken when trimmed on a dish; after having reduced the sauce to the consistency of Allemande, incor- porate the liaison, etc., and when this is set in the sauce, pass it through a tammy into a small basin; dip each of the pieces of