409 CAKES IN GENERAL Mecca Loaves The paste for these is prepared as above, with the addition of two or three tablespoonfuls of whipped cream, which must only be incorporated just before the loaves are laid out on the baking-sheet in the following manner:— Force the mixture through a bag with a plain pipe, and drop it on a greased baking-sheet in the form of a gherkin, pointed at the ends and elevated at the centre: fill the baking-sheet with these, placing them about two inches distant from each other; egg them over, shake some finely pounded loaf sugar over them, then shake some sifted sugar upon that, and put them in a moderate oven to bake a golden colour. When the Mecca loaves are done, let them get cold, and fill the centre with some whipped cream flavoured with a little sugar and a small glass of liqueur, and serve. Queen’s Cakes Prepare a quarter of a pound of nouille paste (see p. 392), roll out as thin as paper, cut into bands, and shred these extremely fine; after the nouilles have been allowed to dry for a short time, put them into a stew-pan, with half a pint of cream, one pat of butter, two ounces of sugar, and a tablespoonful of brandy; leave to boil very gently over a slow fire (covered with the lid), and when the cream has been absorbed by the nouilles, withdraw them, add the yolks of two or three eggs, and stir the whole well together;' then place this preparation upon two greased baking-sheets, in layers about the eighth part of an inch thick, and bake a deep golden colour. When done, spread one of them with apricot jam, cover this over with the other, and then stamp the cakes out with a circular cutter in the form of half-moons; dish up in double circular rows so as to form a cone, and serve. These cakes may also be garnished with any other kind of preserve, or even with pastry custard (see p. 419), and cut out either in oblong, circular, oval, leaf-like, or diamond shapes. In order to vary their appearance, the surface should be first lightly spread with a little meringue paste (see p. 410), and then sprinkled with chopped or shred pistachios, granite sugar, or small pink or white comfits. Almond Cakes Ingredients : 5 oz. flour, 8 oz. sugar, 2 oz. ground almonds (with a few bitter almonds), 4 eggs, 4 whites whipped, 1 glass brandy, a little salt, 4 oz. chopped almonds mixed with 2 oz. sugar, and half the white of an egg. First work the butter to a cream in a basin with a spoon, add the flour, sugar, almonds, brandy, eggs, and salt gradually, then mix in the whipped whites of eggs lightly; pour this paste on a greased baking-sheet, and bake a light-fawn colour. When the cake is nearly done, spread the prepared chopped almonds over the top and then put back again into the oven to finish baking; when