381 SANDWICHES \ two ounces of sugar, and a little salt; cover with a circular piece of buttered paper, and put on the lid; then set on a slow fire to boil gently for about three-quarters of an hour, by which time the milk will be absorbed by the nouilles; add the yolks of two eggs, and mix the whole well together. Next spread a plain round or oval mould with butter, roll out some nouilles paste, and line the mould, coiled round as closely as possible, thus forming a kind of timbale; fill this with the prepared nouilles, place it on a baking-sheet, and put it in the oven to brown lightly; when done, turn the timbale out of the mould on to a dish, shake some castor sugar over it, glaze with the red-hot salamander, and serve. SANDWICHES Sandwiches a la Regence For this purpose it is necessary to order a dozen very small round or oval rolls, about the size of an egg; cut a small piece off the top of each, about the circumference of a half-crown piece, and remove all the crumb from the inside. These rolls must then be filled with the following preparation:—First chop up the white meat from the breast of half a roast fowl, and put this in a basin; then chop the fillets of two washed anchovies, and a few slices of red tongue or dressed ham; add about one-sixth part of the whole of Indian gherkins or mangos, also chopped finely; season with a little chopped tarragon and chervil, add sufficient Remoulade sauce (see p. 23) to moisten the whole, and use the preparation as directed. The rolls must then be covered with the tops, and dished up on a napkin. Note.—These sandwiches may also be prepared with lobster; in which case, neither ham nor tongue should be used. Sandwiches of Fillets of Soles Simmer the fillets of one or more soles in a saute-pan with a little clarified butter, pepper, salt, and lemon juice; when done, put them in press between two dishes, and afterwards divide each fillet into four portions; trim, and put them into a basin with a little mignon- ette pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. Cut the tops off some small oval rolls and remove the crumb; first strew the bottom of each roll with a little salad, then place a portion of sole upon this, add a little Mayonnaise sauce (see p. 23), then strew some salad on the surface, cover with the tops, and dish up. Note.—Sandwiches of lobster or salmon are prepared in a similar manner. Badminton Sandwiches Cut some square slices from a loaf of stale bread, barely a quarter of an inch thick; toast these, and then let them be split or divided with a sharp knife. The inner or untoasted sides must be