THE MODERN COOK 226 Fine Herbs sauce (see p. 5), for the entree; toss these together over the fire to warm them thoroughly, fill the border with this ragout, glaze round, and serve. Potato Border with Calf’s Brains a la Ravigote Steep a set of calf’s brains in tepid water for several hours, and as soon as the thin membrane which covers the brains becomes loosened, detach it gently with the fingers; change the water frequently, and when the brains have become comparatively white put them into a stew-pan with a pint of boiling water, a teaspoonful of vinegar, some sliced carrot, onion, parsley, thyme, bay leaf, mignonette pepper, and salt; allow them to boil gently by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, then remove the brains carefully with a large spoon into another stew-pan, pass the liquor through a sieve on to the brains, and set them aside till within twenty minutes of dinner- time. The brains must then be warmed in their liquor, and afterwards cut into thick slices lengthwise, and placed in the border in circular order, overlapping each other; pour a Ravigote sauce (see p. 19) over the brains, glaze the border, and serve. VEGETABLE AND FORCE-MEAT CHARTREUSES Chartreuse of Vegetables with Partridge Scrub and scrape three or four large carrots, and boil them in water with a little salt; when done, place on a dish in the larder to get cold. In the meantime four large turnips should be peeled, and boiled in the same way as the carrots, and then put on a dish to cool. Next, a plain round mould must be lined with buttered paper, and the prepared carrots and turnips cut into appropriate forms or shapes for the purpose of arranging them over the bottom and round the inside of the mould, taking care that they fit in with each other, so as to represent a neatly arranged appearance. Parboil a large savoy cabbage in water, after which squeeze the moisture from it; take out the core, season with mignonette pepper and salt, and tie up with string. Then put the cabbage into a stew-pan with a partridge trussed with the legs inside, four ounces of streaky bacon (previously parboiled), and half a saveloy; season with an onion stuck with four cloves, a carrot, and a bunch of herbs; moisten with a pint of stock, cover with a buttered paper, put on the lid, and leave to braise gently for about two hours. When done, drain the cabbage on to a colander, put the partridge, bacon, and saveloy on a dish to cool; squeeze the broth from the cabbage; then chop it and use to fill the bottom and sides of the chartreuse, about an inch thick. The partridge must be cut up neatly into small pieces, tossed in enough brown sauce to moisten them, and then placed in the cavity of the chartreuse in close order, so as to give solidity when turned out of the mould on a dish ; a layer of prepared cabbage should be placed over these, and the whole covered with a circular piece of buttered paper. An hour before dinner, the chartreuse