232 THE MODERN COOK previously buttered inside. This must be steamed in a covered stew- pan, with a little water in it; and when done, turned out of the mould upon a plate, and allowed to cool; it should then be placed upon a foundation of baked paste, the angles of the quenelle rounded, and the whole of it covered with a thin coating of force- meat ; upon this turban of quenelle six larded fillets of fowls should be placed with the point made to turn over the top. Secure the entree round with a band of buttered paper made fast with string. Three-quarters of an hour before dinner-time put the turban in the oven to bake; when done, remove the paper, glaze the larded fillets brightly, garnish the centre of the entree with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), pour some of the same round the base, and serve. Turban of Rabbit a la Financiere Take the fillets from one large rabbit, trim, and lard them closely. With the flesh of the legs prepare eight to ten ounces of quenelle force-meat, and use part of this to make a cylindrical foundation, as in the foregoing recipe; when cold trim the top of this round, and after it has been spread with a thin coating of the force-meat, lay the larded fillets round its sides in a slanting position, with the small end of each turned over at the top, and made to reach about an inch down tire cylinder. A buttered band of paper must be placed round the turban and secured with string. An hour before dinner- time, put the turban in the oven to bake; when done, remove the paper, glaze the larded fillets, fill the centre of the entree with a Financiere ragout (see p. 44), pour some round the base, and serve. Turban of Hare a la Conti Take the fillets of a young hare and trim them neatly. Use,the flesh of the legs to prepare eight ounces of quenelle force-meat; and, as in the foregoing recipe, a foundation must be made with part of this, to raise the turban upon it. When the cylinder of force-meat has been poached or steamed, and is cold enough, place it upon the foundation of paste, trim the top round, and spread it over with a coating of force-meat; lay the decorated fillets of hare slantingly round the sides with their tapering points secured inside the cylinder with a little force-meat, and cover the turban with a band of paper in the usual way. An hour before dinner-time, put the turban in the oven to be baked, and when it is done, remove the paper, dish it up, fill the centre with scallops of black truffles and white mushrooms, pour some brown Italian sauce over and round the entree, and serve. Note.—The two foregoing entries may be varied in their appear- ance by larding one half of the fillets, and decorating the remainder with truffles or red tongue. Turban of Sole a la Ximenes Trim the fillets of two medium-sized soles; prepare eight to ten ounces of quenelle force-meat with one or two whiting, with part of which make a cylindrical foundation in the manner described for Turban of Chicken h la Prince de Galles. Spread a coating of force-