i68 THE MODERN COOK sufficient quantity of cold marinade (see p. 57) prepared for the purpose. Next, when the fillet has become saturated with the marinade, drain it, and prepare it for braising exactly in the same manner as in any one of the preceding recipes; moisten with wine or stock, and braise the fillet of beef in the usual way; when it is done, glaze it well, and place it on a dish. Garnish round with potatoes cut in the shape of large olives, and fried a golden colour; sauce the fillet round with a well-made Chevreuil sauce (see p. 17) with the addition of half the essence in which the beef has been braised, and which, as usual, has been previously clarified and reduced to half- glaze for the purpose; glaze the larded fillet and send to table. If preferred, the fillet may be roasted instead of braised. Fillet of Beef a l’Allemande Prepare a fillet of beef in every respect according to the foregoing directions; when done, glaze and dish it up; garnish round with stewed sauerkraut (see p. 39), sauce it with Poivrade or Espagnole sauce, and send to table. The fillet of beef k l’Allemande may also be garnished with stewed prunes, quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80), and sauced round with German sweet sauce (see p. 15). Braised Fillet of Beef with Madeira Sauce Lard a fillet of beef, prepare it for braising in the usual manner, moisten it with wine or stock, and then set the fillet to braise gently on a slow fire; keep basting it frequently with its own liquor, and when done glaze it and place it on a dish. Garnish round with a Jardiniere (see p. 167), a Macedoine (see p. 167), or some nicely fried potatoes; clarify the whole of the liquor in which the fillet has been braised, reduce it to the consistency of half-glaze, and use it for the purpose of saucing the fillet, and send to table. Braised Fillet of Beef a la Milanaise Braise a larded fillet of beef in an oval braising-pan garnished with the usual quantity of vegetables, etc. ; moisten with wine or stock; when the beef is done, glaze and dish it up, and garnish it round with macaroni prepared as follows:—Boil four ounces of macaroni, cut it into one-inch lengths, and put it into a stew-pan containing some scallops of mushrooms, truffles, and tongue ; to these add a gill of Bechamel sauce (see p. 3), one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, and a pat of butter; season with a little grated nutmeg and mignonette pepper, toss the whole well together over the fire until well mixed, and use as directed. Sauce the fillet round with the essence (clarified in the usual manner), and send the remainder to table in a sauce-boat. Roast Fillet of Beef a l’Ang-Iaise Procure a good thick fillet of beef, trim and lard it in the usual manner, place in a deep dish, sprinkle over it a carrot and onion cut into thin slices, thyme, bay leaf, and parsley, some thin slices of the