THE MODERN COOK 220 Quail Pie au Madere Bone four to six quails by making an incision in the part of the back nearest the crop, through which all the bones, etc., must be drawn out, so as to give them as much as possible the appearance of being whole. Next fill each quail with some farce of fat livers (see p. 61), and truss them with their legs turned back. Then place the quails in a small sauce-pan previously lined with thin layers of fat bacon; in the centre place a bouquet garni; cover the whole with more layers of fat bacon, moisten with a little wine-mirepoix (see p. 57), and having put a buttered paper over all, cover and place on the fire, or in the oven, to simmer very gently for about three- quarters of an hour. As soon as the quails are done, drain them on a dish, let them cool, and trim them neatly. Next line the inside of the pie case with some of the remainder of the farce of fat livers, to within an inch of the top, place the quails in it in circular order, with the breasts uppermost, and a thin layer of the force-meat between each; cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, place a double round of paper well buttered on the top, and bake the pie in the oven about an hour. When done, remove the bacon, drain off all the fat; sauce sparingly with a bright Madeira (see p. 4) mixed with some reduced extract of quails made from the bones, and send to table. Lark Pie a 1’Essence Follow the preceding directions, substituting one dozen larks for the quails. Snipe Pie a la Bordelaise Bone four to six snipes, and with the trail and a quarter of a pound of fat livers make some force-meat, and with part of this fill the snipes; truss and cook them in the same way as directed for the quails. When the pie is baked, drain off the fat; garnish the edge of the pie with a close border of slices of red tongue cut in the form of large cocks’ combs, put a large truffle, bearing a double comb in the centre, and a border of these round its base; sauce the pie carefully with a rich Bordelaise (see p. 14) mixed with some reduced extract of snipes, made from the bones and serve. VOL-AU-VENTS AND TOURTES Vol = au=vent1 a la Nesle Skin and wash in several waters a set of calf’s-brains, and boil them in a stew-pan with water, a small carrot and an onion both sliced very thin, two cloves, a little mace, twelve peppercorns, and a little salt for a quarter of an hour; when done, remove them from the fire to get cold. Prepare also a throat sweetbread, which must be steeped in tepid water for two hours or more, then scalded, cooled in water, and gently simmered on the stove in some white stock for 1 Instructions for making vol-au-vent cases will be found in the section dealing with Puff-paste.