THE MODERN COOK 14 liquor from the mussels, a teaspoonful of glaze, and half a gill of cream; stir the whole on the stove-fire till it boils, and keep it boiling for ten minutes ; then add a liaison of two yolks of eggs, and pass it through a tammy on to the mussels. Just before sending the sauce to table throw in a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley and a little lemon juice. This sauce is well adapted for broiled whitings, turbot, cod, haddock, and gurnet. Shrimp Sauce To about half a pint of melted butter add half an ounce of lobster coral, cayenne, a quarter of a pint of picked shrimps, one teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and lemon juice. Crayfish Sauce Boil one dozen of crayfish in the usual manner, trim the tails, and with the bodies and shells make one ounce of crayfish butter (see p. 43), which incorporate into about half a pint of reduced Veloute sauce; add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon juice, and pass this sauce through a tammy on to the crayfish tails. Lobster Sauce Cut the fleshy part of a lobster into small square pieces; reserve the spawn and coral, and pound it with one ounce of butter and pass it through a sieve. Then put about half a pint of melted butter, or the same quantity of reduced Veloute sauce, into a stew-pan, incorporate therewith the lobster butter, a teaspoonful of glaze, cayenne, andjemon juice; add the pieces of lobster, and send to table. Sturgeon Sauce Take one pint of the liquor in which the sturgeon has been braised, and, having reduced it to one-third of its quantity, add a glass of claret or port, a gill of worked Espagnole sauce, and some essence or trimmings of mushrooms; allow the sauce to clear itself by boiling gently on the side of the fire, skim it, reduce it, and then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie. Just before using the sauce mix in a pat of butter, some nutmeg, cayenne, one teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and lemon juice. Bordelaise Sauce Mince two ounces of lean ham, and put it into a stew-pan with two cloves of garlic, a few peppercorns, a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme and a bay-leaf, some sprigs of tarragon, and a gill of claret; set these to simmer gently on a slow fire for twenty minutes, then add a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, a gill of worked Espagnole sauce, and half a pint of veal stock; having allowed the sauce to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire to clear itself, pass it with pressure through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. This sauce must be kept rather thin, and, to be perfect, should be bright and wholly free from grease ; it is especially adapted, by its flavour and character, for being served with broiled meats and fishes generally.