BISQUES AND SHELLFISH SOUPS 85 Bisque of Rabbits au Veloute Fillet one small rabbit, make half the fillets into force-meat for quenelles; cut off all the meat from the rabbit, and with the carcase prepare a brown consomme in the usual manner. Put the remainder of the fillets and all the meat that has been cut from the rabbit into a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, one or two shalots, bay- leaf, a sprig of thyme, parsley, nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and salt, and fry them brown. Then add one glass of sherry ; and after allowing the whole to boil briskly for about three minutes, pour in a quart of consomme made from the carcase. Let the stock thus far prepared boil gently by the side of the fire for about an hour, then drain the contents of the stew-pan into a sieve, pound them thoroughly, and after having mixed the produce with their own stock, rub the puree thus obtained through a tammy, together with half a pint of good Veloute sauce. The puree should then be put into a soup-pot, and kept in a cool place until within ten minutes of dinner-time, when it must be stirred over the fire to make it sufficiently hot; and after ascertaining that its seasoning is correct, pour the bisque into a soup-tureen containing eighteen small quenelles of rabbit, made with the fillets which have been reserved for that purpose, and serve. Bisque of Snipes a la Bonne Bouche Procure two or three fat snipes, perfectly fresh and not fishy ; fillet them, and follow the instructions given for making the bisque of quails a la Prince Albert (see p. 84), but omitting the crayfish butter. Warm the puree of snipes just before it is wanted for table, pour it into a soup-tureen containing the scallops made from half the fillets, and one dozen small quenelles made from the remainder. Send up with this soup, to be handed round, some crofttons of fried bread cut in small circular pieces about the eighth of an inch thick; a circular incision having been made on one side of the bread before it is fried, the inner part is afterwards easily taken out, and in its place should be put a farce, made with the trail of half the snipes (the remainder should be used in the puree). This farce is to be prepared thus :— Put the trail into a small stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, pepper, and salt, and after frying it lightly on the fire for a minute or two, add a dessertspoonful of good brown sauce, and then rub it through a hair-sieve with a wooden spoon. Fill the crofttons with this farce, smoothing the surface with a small knife; and previous to serving them, put them in a sautd-pan into the oven for five minutes to warm them ; serve them on a plate to be handed round with the soup. Take care not to put the crofttons into the soup, as that would destroy their crispness. Bisque of Crayfish a l’Ancierme Procure three dozen crayfish, from which remove the part contain- ing the gall in the following manner :—Take firm hold of the crayfish with the left hand, so as to avoid being pinched by its claws ; with the thumb and forefinger of the right hand pinch the extreme end of