366 THE MODERN COOK Savoury Haddock on Toast Remove the skin and bones from a parboiled, smoked haddock ; pound the flesh in a mortar, and mix with it two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and three yolks of eggs. Shape the mixture into small balls, and fry them in hot fat, drain, and place on small squares of toasted or fried bread previously spread with anchovy butter. Dish up and garnish with fried parsley. Cold Haddock Creams Take half a haddock, i gill of aspic jelly, \ pint of cream, i table- spoonful Mayonnaise, i gill tomato pulp, ^ oz. gelatine, tarragon, and chervil, and | oz. butter. Decorate a number of small dariole moulds (previously masked with a thin layer of aspic) with tarragon and chervil leaves. Put the haddock in the oven with a little butter on top, and cook for ten minutes ; remove skin and bones and pound the fish in a mortar, rub through a sieve, and let co'ol. Melt the gelatine in the tomato pulp. Whip the cream till stiff, add the Mayonnaise sauce and the remainder of the aspic jelly; strain the Tomato sauce, etc., into this, and stir gradually into the puree of haddock. Fill the moulds with this. Put them on the ice to set. Turn out on a cold dish; decorate with chopped aspic and small salad, and serve. Devilled Smoked Salmon Put some wholemeal or water biscuits into salad oil to soak for a few minutes; take up, dust with salt, cayenne, and black pepper. Toast the biscuits on both sides, and place upon them some thinly cut slices of smoked salmon; cover these with a thin layer of devilled paste or butter; place them in a hot oven for a few minutes. Dish up, and serve as hot as possible. Lobster a la Newburg Remove the meat from a medium-sized lobster and chop it finely. Beat the yolks of two eggs and mix with half a gill of double cream, a few drops of onion juice, half a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of Krona pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew-pan; when hot, put in the minced lobster, cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, then add the cream, etc. Stir continuously till it thickens, and serve out on small rounds of toasted and buttered or fried bread. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of crisp parsley, and serve. Scalloped Lobster Chop up the meat of a large lobster, put it into a stew-pan with a little white sauce, a small piece of butter, and one ounce of anchovy paste; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cayenne, and lemon juice; stir over the fire for a few minutes, mix with two yolks of eggs, fill some small scallop-shells with this, sprinkle with fried bread- crumbs and oiled butter, brown with a salamander or in the oven, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve.