THE MODERN COOK 3i« done, remove the paper, dry the larding, and glaze it; drain the fillets, trim, and dish up in a close circle, pour some Poivrade, Tomato, or Italian sauce under, and serve. Note.—These fillets may also be garnished in the same way as directed for fillets of rabbits. Fillets of Hare a la Chasseur Prepare the fillets of a small hare and place them in a saute-pan as before. Use the carcase for making some extract or fumet. Reserve the hind-quarter; place on a large sheet of paper thickly buttered, wrap the paper round the legs, and then roast before the fire or in the oven for about half an hour, basting frequently. When done, take off all the meat, chop it very finely, and pound it in a mortar with a pat of butter and half a gill of Espagnole sauce; rub it through a fine wire-sieve or a tammy, and put the puree into a small stew-pan. When about to send to table, braise, and glaze the fillets as directed in the previous recipe, dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with the puree, pour round, and mask the puree with some bright Espagnole sauce mixed with the fumet; glaze the larding of the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Hare a l’AHemande Lard the fillets of a small hare as in the previous recipes, steep them in some marinade (see p. 57) for six hours at least; drain, and put in a stew-pan lined with thin layers of fat bacon, moisten with some wine mirepoix, braise, and glaze them in the usual manner, and when done, dish up in a close circle ; fill the centre with large prunes stewed in red wine flavoured with a small stick of cinnamon, pour some Victoria Cherry sauce (see p. 16) round, place a border of quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80) round the entrde, and serve. Cutlets of Hare a la Portuguaise Fillet a small hare and cut each fillet into halves, flatten these slightly with a bat, trim into the shape of cutlets, and scrape some of the ribs to resemble cutlet-bones ; season with a little pepper and salt, mask over with a thin coating of Allemande sauce, and bread- crumb the cutlets twice—once after being dipped in beaten egg, and again after being sprinkled with clarified butter; pat into shape, and place in a sautl-pan with clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets lightly, drain, glaze, and dish up in a close circle; pour some Portuguese sauce (see p. 15) round, and serve. Cutlets of Hare a l’Ancienne The hare must be trimmed and filleted as before, then placed in a buttered saut^-pan without being bread-crumbed; season with pepper and salt, pour a little clarified butter over, and with the hind- quarters make some puree in the usual way. Use the carcase to make some fumet, to be worked into some Espagnole sauce for the entree. Cut as many crofitons of bread as there are cutlets, and of