THE MODERN COOK 428 ICE PUDDINGS AND FANCY SWEETS Iced Cake a la Stanley First make a Parisian cake (in a fluted mould) as directed on p. 399. Next prepare a compote of greengages in syrup; these must be kept whole, and of as green a colour as possible. Then prepare a custard in the following manner:—Mix four yolks of eggs with a pint of boiling cream or milk, one and a half ounces of sugar, and sufficient cinnamon and lemon-peel to flavour; stir the whole in a stew-pan over the fire until it begins to thicken; the custard should then be immediately passed through a tammy or fine sieve into a basin, and left to get cold. Then put the custard into an ordinary ice-machine with crushed ice and freezing salt. When frozen sufficiently firm, scrape the custard from the sides and bottom of the machine, place a damp cloth over the top, and keep in a cool place until wanted. When about to send the cake to table, scoop out nearly the whole of the crumb from the centre and fill it with the iced custard; pile up the compote of greengages on the top, pour some of the syrup round, and serve. Iced Rice Pudding a la Cintra Wash and parboil two ounces of Carolina rice; put it into a stew-pan with a pint of milk and a gill of cream, a pod of vanilla, and two ounces of sugar; let the rice simmer very gently over a slow fire in the milk until the grains are almost dissolved, stirring occasionally. Then mix the yolks of two eggs with the rest of the ingredients. Stir the whole well together for several minutes; then freeze the mixture in a plain mould in the same manner as directed above; cover with the lid, and immerse in the ice and freezing salt as before. Meanwhile prepare a compote of four or five oranges (preferably Tangerines) as follows:—Peel and cut each orange into quarters and put into a convenient sized sugar-boiler or stew-pan containing about a pint of syrup (made with one pound of sugar and half a pint of water). Let the pieces of orange boil up gently in this for two minutes, and then drain them on a sieve. Boil the syrup down to about one-half its original quantity; add a wine-glass of Curasao and a tablespoonful of apricot jam; mix together, and pour over the oranges in a basin. When about to send the pudding to table, turn out of the mould on to a dish, pile up the compote of oranges on the top, pour the syrup over, and serve. Iced Pudding & la Cerito First prepare about twelve finger, and the same number of almond gaufres (see p. 404), and arrange the finger gaufres round the inside of a plain circular charlotte mould. Prepare also a pint