95 TYPICAL ENGLISH SOUPS a napkin into a large stew-pan, in which afterwards put the pieces of turtle selected for the purpose; boil them in it until they are sufficiently done, and then add a pinch of cayenne pepper, and serve. If considered desirable a little lemon juice and a few quenelles of fowl may be added, as also some of the finest pieces of the green fat. Clear turtle soup is preferred by some epicures to that which is dressed in the usual way, from its being free from the additional compounds used in the full-dressed turtle : it is in consequence much lighter, more delicate and pure, and is unquestionably easier of digestion. Mock=Turtle Soup Procure half a scalded calf’s head, or, as it is sometimes called, a turtle-head; bone it in the following manner :—Place the calf’s head on the table with the front part of the head facing you; draw the sharp point of a knife from the back part of the head right down to the nose, making an incision down to the bone of the skull; then with the knife clear the scalp and cheeks from the bones right and left, always keeping the point of the knife close to the bone. Having boned the head, put it into a large stew-pan of cold water on the fire; as soon as it boils skim it well, and let it continue to boil for ten minutes; take the calf’s head out and put it into a pan full of cold water. Then get a stock-pot, and melt in it one ounce of butter; place in it three or four ounces of raw ham, one pound of knuckle of veal, and an old hen partially roasted; moisten with two quarts of stock, and put the stock-pot on the fire to boil until the broth is reduced to a glaze, when instantly slacken the heat by covering the fire with ashes, and then leave the soup to colour itself gradually. Allow the glaze at the bottom of the stew-pan to be reduced to the same consistency as for brown sauce, and fill up the stock-pot with three quarts of water. Place the half head in the stock, and after setting it to boil, and thoroughly skimming it, garnish with the usual proportion of vegetables, two or three cloves, a blade of mace, a small handful of mushrooms, four shalots, and a good bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf tied together, and a little salt. Set it by the fire to boil gently till the calfs head is done; then take the pieces of head out, and place them on a dish to cool, afterwards to be cut into squares and put into a basin till required for adding them to the soup. Strain the stock through a broth cloth, and thicken it with some light-coloured roux to the consistency of thin brown sauce; let it boil, and allow it to throw up all the butter and clarify itself thoroughly; then add a glass of sherry, about a table- spoonful of turtle herbs (see p. 93) in which one or two anchovies have been mixed, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and the calfs head cut into squares, as also the tongue braised with it. Let these boil together for about ten minutes, then add eighteen small round quenelles and a little lemon juice, and send to table. Clear Mock-Turtle Soup To make this soup follow the instructions laid down for making clear turtle (see p. 94), merely substituting calfs head for turtle.