129 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL Scallops of Cod a la Bechamel Cut and trim about one and a half pounds (middle cut) of crimped cod into five or six neat scallops; simmer them in a saute- pan with a little fresh butter and salt; when done, drain them on kitchen paper, and afterwards toss them gently in a stew-pan with a good gill of cream Bechamel sauce (see p. 3), dish them up, pyramidally, in the entree dish, and garnish round with a border of potato croquettes. To save time, or indeed as a variety, these scallops may also be prepared in the following manner :— Boil the slices, or piece of cod, drain them, and then break them gently into large flakes, which toss in some Bechamel sauce; dish up and garnish as directed above. Crimped Cod a la Maitre d’Hotel Steep four or five thin slices of crimped cod in a little oil, pepper, and salt; broil them on a gridiron rubbed with whitening, and when done, glaze them over very lightly; dish them up, and sauce them under and round with a well-seasoned Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. 11), and send to table. Baked Cod’s Head Clean and prepare a medium cod’s head. Fill the hollow of the gills with somej veal-stuffing; put the head into a deep baking-dish —season with pepper and salt, a chopped shalot, and a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley; moisten with a glass of sherry and a gill of mushroom catsup ; put about one ounce of butter on the fish and place it in the oven to bake for twenty minutes, remembering that it must be frequently basted with its liquor, adding, if necessary, a little consomme for the purpose. After the cod’s head has been in the oven ten minutes, sprinkle it over with some grated raspings of bread, and when cooked, place it on a dish; then add a table- spoonful of brown sauce and half a glass of wine to the liquor in which the head has been baked, and allow the whole to boil down to the consistency of sauce; add a pat of butter, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and lemon juice; work the whole together, pour the sauce round the cod’s head, and send to table. HADDOCK AND COD’S SOUNDS Haddock a la Royale Bone and stuff a large haddock with some quenelle force-meat of whiting ; place on a baking-sheet with some pieces of butter; then season with a little pepper and salt, and bake for twenty minutes. After allowing the haddock to cool, cover it with a thin layer of quenelle force-meat of whitings, and place thereon some contises fillets of soles in a slanting direction; mask the head with a little of the force-meat, mixed with some pounded lobster coral, and form the eyes and mouth with truffles—placing over all a buttered paper. K.