BISQUES AND SHELLFISH SOUPS 87 Just before sending to table stir the puree over the fire with a wooden spoon, taking care that it does not get too hot, as that would cause the soup to curdle. Finish seasoning the soup by mixing with the puree half a gill of cream and a little cayenne pepper ; then pour the soup into a tureen containing the shredded meat taken out of the claws, previously made warm in a gill of consomme, and send to table. Bisque of Lobsters a la Stanley Take all the meat out of two small hen lobsters, reserving the inside part, coral, and spawn separately. Cut the meat of the lobster into small pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, one stick of celery, and a carrot cut into small shreds, a small piece of mace, thyme, pepper, and a little salt; fry these over the fire for five minutes, and then, having moistened them with half a pint of Rhenish white wine, allow the whole to boil quickly on the fire for about twenty minutes. Drain the lobster, etc., on a sieve, then pound this thoroughly in a mortar, and put it again into the stew-pan with the inside part reserved for the purpose, and also the broth, adding thereto about a quart of clarified and reduced Velouffi sauce, and a pint of strong consomme; then rub the purde through the tammy, and after having put it into a sauce-pan, place it in the cool until wanted. Ten minutes before dinner-time put the bisque to warm, stirring it the whole of the time, taking care to prevent its curdling. Finish seasoning it with one ounce of lobster butter, a little cayenne pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and a teaspoonful of light-coloured glaze. Pour the soup into the tureen containing two dozen tails of prawns with one dozen small quenelles of whiting, and serve. Bisque of Prawns a la Cerito Procure three dozen fresh prawns, pick and trim eighteen of the largest of them, which, when done, put into a small stew-pan, to remain in the larder until wanted. Then cut into small shreds or dice one young carrot, a stick of celery, and a little parsley; and having put these into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, a sprig of thyme, some mignonette pepper, and a little salt, set the whole on the fire to be fried to a light colour. Next throw in the remainder of the prawns, as well as the bodies of those from which the tails have been taken, and then add a glass of Sauterne wine; allow these ingredients to boil for ten minutes, and then add two ounces of rice previously boiled in stock, and also a quart of strong white consomme of veal. Having allowed this to boil gently by the side of the fire for about half an hour, strain the whole into a sieve— reserving the broth in a basin. Then pound the prawns, rice, and vegetables all together in a mortar, dilute with the broth which has been reserved, and rub the whole through a tammy or fine sieve in the usual manner; put the purde into a sauce-pan, and keep it in a cool place until dinner-time, when, having made it sufficiently hot