DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 127 Cod Stuffed and Baked Clean, trim, and stuff two to three pounds of cod with some well- seasoned veal-stuffing; make several deep incisions on either side, and place it in a deep baking-dish previously well spread with fresh butter; season with a little chopped parsley and mushrooms, pepper and salt; moisten with a glass of sherry and the liquor of one dozen oysters; then set the fish in the oven to bake; and every ten minutes, or oftener, baste it with its own liquor; when it is nearly done, sprinkle it over with some fine raspings of bread, and again put it in the oven for ten minutes longer. When the cod is baked, draw the strings out of it; place it on a dish, then pour a glass of sherry into the dish in which the cod has been baked, and also a gill of consomme—to detach the glaze from round the pan ; pass the whole through a tammy or fine sieve into a stew-pan ; add some brown sauce; reduce the white to a proper consistency ; work in a pat of anchovy butter, a little cayenne and lemon juice, beard the oysters, and add them to the sauce; pour it round the cod, and send to table. Cod a la Creme au Gratin is prepared in a similar manner to turbot la crhme au gratin (for which see p. 113). Crimped Cod and Oyster Sauce Put three or four crimped slices -of cod in boiling water con- taining a handful of salt, as before directed; as soon as it boils up again, set the fish-kettle by the side of the fire to continue boiling for about a quarter of an hour; when done, drain and dish up the fish. Send up to table with a boat of Oyster sauce (see p. 13). Slices of Cod a la Seville Wash and dry four ounces of Carolina rice; fry it in salad oil, drain it on a sieve, and afterwards put it into a large stew-pan; then cut three or four pieces of crimped cod, about four inches square, and fry them a golden colour in some salad oil, after which drain and place them on the rice. Next cut a Spanish onion into very thin slices, and fry these in some of the oil used for the fish; drain off the oil and add two large ripe tomatoes, from which the seeds have been squeezed; simmer the tomatoes and the onion together on the fire for five minutes, and pour the whole on the fish and rice; season with a pinch of cayenne, salt, and lemon juice; moisten with a pint of good broth; place a buttered paper on the top, cover with the lid of the pan, and put the whole to bake in the oven. In about half an hour the fish and rice will be done. Take the pieces of cod out of the rice, place them on a dish, and stir the rice over the fire in order to mix it with the seasoning ; then put the rice on a silver dish, and place the pieces of cod-fish on it; sauce it round with some Mussel sauce (see p. 13), and send to table. This is a favourite dish in Spain.