THE MODERN COOK 34 Garnish of Cucumber Farci Cut two good-sized cucumbers into two-inch lengths with a vegetable-cutter, scoop out the seeds and peel off the green rind, pare away the sharp angles at the ends, and then parboil them in water for three minutes, plunge them in cold water, and put them to drain on a napkin; then fill up the cavities with some quenelle force-meat of fowls. Next, cover the bottom of a saute-pan with some thin layers of fat bacon; place therein the cucumbers thus prepared, and in the centre put a small bunch of parsley and onion; cover the whole with layers of fat bacon, and moisten with a little white chicken consomme. Let them simmer very gently on a slow fire for about an hour, and just before the cucumbers are wanted for use drain them on a napkin and then put them into another saute-pan with their own liquor—freed from all grease, and afterwards reduced to a demi-glaze; just roll the cucumbers lightly in this glaze over a sharp fire, so as to cause the glaze to adhere to them, and thus give them a bright appearance. This kind of garnish of cucumbers is frequently used for whole entrees and removes, such as larded entrees of sweetbreads, stewed or braised meat dishes, fillet of beef, fowls, etc. Garnish of Celery a la Creme Trim and well wash two or three heads of full-sized white celery, cut them into half-inch lengths, boil these in water for five minutes, drain them on a sieve, and immerse them in cold water; then place them on a napkin. Next, put the celery in a stew-pan with a lump of sugar, a pat of butter, a little salt, and grated nutmeg; moisten with half a pint of white consomme, and set it to boil gently over the fire for about three-quarters of an hour; as soon as the celery is well done, boil it down in its glaze, and then add a tablespoonful of good, reduced Bechamel sauce. When this garnish is required as a sauce for fowls, etc., it will be necessary to increase the quantity of Bechamel sauce, and also to add a little cream. Garnish of Celery a l’Espagnole Prepare two or three heads of celery as directed in the fore- going recipe, and when it is thoroughly done add a tablespoonful of finished Espagnole sauce and a teaspoonful of glaze. Garnish of Young- Carrots a la Flamande Wash, scrape, and cut a bunch of young carrots into the shape of small pears, boil them in water for three minutes, drain them on a napkin, and then place them in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, half an ounce of sugar, a little salt, and grated nutmeg; moisten with half a pint of consomme, and set them to boil gently on the fire for half an hour. As soon as they are done, boil them down to a glaze, and then add a tablespoonful of good Allemande sauce and a tea- spoonful of blanched and chopped parsley. This kind of garnish is very appropriate for braised beef, lamb, and hams.