THE MODERN COOK 368 Alexandra Crofites Pound in a mortar three yolks of hard-boiled eggs, two ounces of tunny fish, and mix with two tablespoonfuls of cream; season with lemon juice, salt and pepper, and rub through a fine sieve. With this paste spread eight oval-shaped croutes of triscuits, previously fried in clarified butter and well drained on paper. Garnish each croute or canape with thinly cut fillets of Lax arranged lattice-work fashion. Stamp out some little spots of Spanish pimiento, dip them in liquid aspic, and put them in the cavities of the croCites. Dish up on lace paper. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Cornwall Toast Mince finely three or four cup mushrooms, previously peeled, washed, and drained. Heat up half an ounce of butter and fry the mushrooms in this; season with salt and pepper. Broil six to eight very thinly cut rashers of streaky bacon, have ready three slices of toasted bread, spread these with the minced mushrooms, and cut them into six to eight oblongs the same size as the bacon. Place the bacon on top of each, and put a tablespoonful of scrambled eggs upon the bacon. Dish up, and send to table very hot. Devilled Chicken Croutes Cut out twelve small rounds of bread about half an inch deep, stamp out the centre with a small plain cutter, and scoop out as much of the crumby part as possible. Fry these in clarified butter, and drain on a cloth. Cut into shreds six ounces of cold chicken meat and two ounces of ham or tongue; put it into a stew-pan with half an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of curry powder, and a dust of cayenne pepper. Heat the mixture over the fire, fill the croutes, glaze the tops with dissolved meat glaze, put them in a hot oven for a few seconds, dish up, and serve. Tongue Toast Chop finely the remains of a tongue (four to six ounces), mix it with the yolk of an egg, a little cream, season with a little salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg; heat up in a stew-pan. Spread this over some slices of hot buttered toast, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, cut the slices into fingers of equal sizes, let them brown before the fire or in a hot oven. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Curried Toast Toast four slices of bread cut from a sandwich loaf, trim off the crusts and butter each slice; then spread with a mixture composed of equal proportions of curry or mulligatawny paste, and anchovy or bloater paste. Cut the prepared toast into fingers, range them on a dish, and bake in a hot oven for a few minutes, long enough to heat them; then serve.