200 THE MODERN COOK REMOVES OF VENISON, RED DEER, AND ROEBUCK Haunch of Venison Roasted a l’Anglaise Saw off the shank-bone of a small haunch, remove the sinew, pare away the dark dry skin from the skirt, and also the dried surface of the under part. Then cover the haunch with a large sheet of buttered paper, and over that place a covering of flour and water paste about half an inch in thickness ; envelop the whole with two large sheets of cartridge-paper, and roast either in front of the fire or in the oven. If the haunch be a fine one it should be allowed from two hours to two and a half to roast, and about twenty minutes before it is done the paste and paper should be removed and a little salt sprinkled over it. Then with a dredger shake over some flour to froth and colour it; baste it with a little fresh butter, and about five minutes after take the haunch up, place it on a dish, pour a rich brown gravy under it, put a paper ruffle on the bone, and send to table with a sauce-boat filled with sweet sauce (see p. 16). Haunch of Venison a I’Allemande Trim and remove the spine-bone from a small haunch of venison, place it in an oval braising-pan with two carrots, two onions, a head of celery, a bouquet garni, six cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a glass of red wine and sufficient stock to cover the surface of the venison; lay on it a buttered paper, and put on the lid, and after having allowed it to boil on a brisk fire, place it in the oven or on a moderate fire to continue braising very gently for about three to four hours—taking care to moisten the surface frequently with its own braise. When the venison is done take it up on a deep baking-dish, put about a pint of its own liquor under it, trim neatly and mask all over with a thick coating of the following preparation : —Bake some slices of bread a light-brown colour, and afterwards pound and sift them; put half a pound of this into a basin, and add to it half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, two ounces of fine sugar, and as much port wine as will suffice to moisten the whole into a thick paste; use this to cover the haunch of venison, smooth it over with the blade of a knife, and put it in a warm place to dry the surface of the crust. When about to send to table place the venison on a dish, pour some Victoria cherry sauce (see p. 16) round it, garnish with alternate groups of prunes stewed in wine, and potato quenelles; put a ruffle on the bone, and serve. Haunch of Venison a la St. George Trim a small haunch of venison in the usual manner, and with the point of a small knife make a circular incision about eight inches in diameter, just below the knuckle, on the upper part of the haunch, and with a large knife remove the surface of the part so marked out in order to leave the place bare, preparatory to its being thickly and