THE MODERN COOK 416 Cheesecakes Ingredients : 4 oz. pressed curd, ^ oz. ratafias, 6 oz. sugar, 2 oz. butter, 4 yolks of eggs, some grated nutmeg, a little salt, grated rind of 2 oranges or lemons. Squeeze the curd in a napkin to absorb all the moisture, then pound it thoroughly in a mortar and mix in the above ingredients ; when the whole is incorporated together into a soft paste, put on one side in a basin. Next line a dozen or more tartlet tins with some puff paste, fill them with the mixture, and place a strip of candied peel on the top of each; put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven until a light-brown colour; when done, shake a little sifted sugar over, and serve quite hot. Currants, dried cherries, sultanas, or citron may be used instead of the candied peel. Mirlitons Ingredients : Puff paste, 1 or more eggs, 3 oz. sugar, 1 oz. tafias, J oz. candied orange flowers, 1 oz. butter, and a little salt. Put the above ingredients into a basin having a lip or spout: the ratafias and orange flowers must be bruised, and the butter melted ; work the mixture well together with a wooden spoon until it becomes creamy, then pour into a dozen small deep tartlet tins, lined with puff paste trimmings; shake sifted sugar over the mirlitons, and when it has nearly melted on the surface, put them in the oven and bake them a light-fawn colour. When the mirlitons are done, the centre of the tartlet should rise up to the height of about half an inch, resembling the crown of a boy’s cap. These cakes may also be flavoured with grated chocolate, or with ground pistachios or almonds, or with different essences. A spoonful of apricot or pine-apple jam may also be placed in the tartlets before adding the filling. Pithiviers Cake Ingredients : £ lb. puff paste, 4 oz. almonds or nuts, 4 oz. sugar, 4 oz. butter, 1 oz. ratafias, 1 tablespoonful orange-flower water, yolks of 2 eggs, and a very little salt. First pound the almonds with a little white of egg; then add the remainder of the ingredients, and pound the whole well together until it becomes a rather soft creamy paste; put this aside in a basin. Meanwhile prepare half a pound of puff paste, to which seven turns or foldings must be given. Take two-thirds of this, and knead, or rather fold it, by twisting over the corners, so as to form it into a cushion; knead the other piece in a similar manner, and then roll them both out in a circular or oval form to the size of a small dish or dessert-plate. Place the thinnest piece on a baking-sheet, wet round the edges with a paste-brush dipped in water, fill the whole of the centre with a layer of Pithiviers cream, and place the other piece of puff paste over the top of this; press it all round the edge by bearing on it with the thumb of the right hand ; then decorate the