241 ENTREES OF BEEF dish, in a pyramidal form, with green fried parsley in the centre, round the base, and on the top. Send some Poivrade sauce (see p. 8) to table in a boat. Note.—Instead of bread-crumbing the cannelons, they may be dipped in coating batter, and then fried. Paupiettes of Ox=Palates a la Financiere Braise and cut up three or four ox-palates as in the previous recipe; trim the pieces thus produced into oblong slices, and spread upon each a thin layer of quenelle force-meat of veal or poultry, in which some fine herbs have been mixed. The ox-palates should then be rolled firmly in the form of cartridges, and kept in the cool until wanted. Half an hour before dinner-time set the paupiettes on the fire, at the same time adding to them about a pint of stock or consomme; as soon as they begin to boil, put the lid on, and set them to simmer gently by the side of the fire for twenty minutes. The paupiettes must be then drained, the ends of each neatly cut off, then placed in a stew-pan with a little half-glaze, and again set on the fire to be rolled in this as it boils down; finally, they should be dished up in a pyramidal or conical form, and a Financiere ragout (see p. 44) poured over the entree, and sent to table. Ox= Palates a la Tortue Braise the ox-palates as before directed, put them in press, and when cold stamp them out in rounds, with a circular tin cutter two inches in diameter, and put them in a small deep stew-pan with a little of the sauce intended for the entree. Twenty minutes before sending to table make the rounds quite hot, and place them in neat order in, and round, the base of an ornamental croustade of fried bread, previously prepared for the purpose, and stuck to the centre of the dish, with a little paste made of flour and white of egg; pour a Ragofit a la Tortue (see p. 44) tastefully about the entree, and serve. Curry of Ox=Palates Prepare some rounds of ox-palates, as in the foregoing recipe, and mix them in half a pint of good Curry sauce (see p. 12). Just before sending to table make the curry quite hot, and dish up with boiled rice pressed into a border-mould, and then turned out on a dish. The above is the simplest manner of serving this entree, but it looks much better when dressed with an ornamental rice border, in which case some plain boiled Patna rice must be served separately. Attereaux of Ox= Palates a la d’Uxelles Braise four ox-palates; when done, put them in press between two dishes; as soon as they are cold trim both sides, cut them into inch-square pieces, and place these on a dish; pour some reduced d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5) over the pieces, and when the sauce has become set, run the pieces upon small silver skewers; gather R