EGGS, OMELETS, AND FARINACEOUS DISHES 375 grated cheese and a pinch of pepper (no salt), mix well with a whisk, add the cream, and beat well. Melt half the butter in an omelet- pan, pour in half the egg mixture. Stir over a brisk fire until the eggs begin to set (it requires generally three minutes to stir), then fold into a cushion shape, let it rest for one minute to take colour, turn on to a hot dish. With the other half of the mixture and butter prepare a second omelet, and put it along with the first. Trim the omelets neatly, sprinkle over with a few bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan, also a few drops of oiled butter, put the dish in a sharp oven or under a hot salamander for a few minutes, and serve with nicely seasoned hot Tomato sauce poured round the omelets. Savoury Herb Omelet Break six eggs in a basin ; to these add a tablespoonful of cream, a small piece of butter, two dessertspoonfuls of chopped parsley and herbs, and some pepper and salt. Then put one ounce of fresh butter in an omelet-pan on the fire; while the butter is melting, whip the eggs, etc., well together until they become frothy; as soon as the butter begins to get hot, pour the eggs into the pan, and stir the omelet as the eggs appear to set and become firm. When the whole has become partially set; roll the omelet into the form of an oval cushion, let it turn a golden brown on one side over the fire, and then turn out on a dish; pour a little thin Espagnole sauce, or half-glaze, under, and serve. Omelet with Shalots Prepare and finish this omelet as above, except that some chopped shalots must be added to the parsley. Cheese Omelet Break six eggs into a basin, then add a tablespoonful of cream, two ounces of grated-Parmesan cheese, some mignonette pepper, and a little salt; beat the whole well together, and finish the omelet as before. Kidney Omelet First prepare and slice two small sheep’s kidneys, toss them in butter and add a dessertspoonful of flour, and moisten with a little well-seasoned brown sauce. Next make an omelet as directed for “Savoury Herb Omelet,” and when fried, and before folding up, place the prepared kidneys in it; roll up into shape, dish up, and pour a little Demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Savoury Banana Omelet Peel four not overripe bananas, cut them into round slices (not too thin). Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet pan, when hot put in the bananas and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, then season with salt and pepper. Break four eggs into a basin, add a tablespoonful of milk, salt and pepper to taste, and beat up well. Melt one ounce of butter in an