THE MODERN COOK 64 to a large stew-pan cover (previously buttered) in the shape of large peas : this is done with a sudden jerk of the wrist. When the stew- pan lid is covered with these fragments of paste—-which, however, must not be close enough to touch each other—prepare some boiling consomme in a stew-pan over the fire, and shake off the peas into it (which will be easily effected by just passing the lid containing the fragments of paste over the fire) in order to detach them and thus facilitate their slipping into the broth. Let these boil very gently for five minutes; strain them on a sieve and then throw them into two quarts of strong bright consomme of fowl or game prepared for the purpose; allow them to boil again gently for five minutes; add a few leaves of tarragon and chervil, and let these boil a short time previously to serving up the soup. Send some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate, to be handed round at table simultaneously with this soup. Consomme a la Dauphine Take a gill of strong consomme of fowl and pour it gradually into a stew-pan containing three yolks of eggs beaten up with a little salt, nutmeg, and pepper; when the egg is well mixed with the consomme, strain it through a sieve into a round plain mould, which should be previously buttered carefully for that purpose. Put the mould holding the preparation into a large stew-pan containing water to the depth of about an inch, and cover the stew-pan with the lid ; let the water in it simmer—or gently boil—on the corner of the fire, so as to produce sufficient steam to set the custard. When this is done, take it out of the water; and after having allowed it time to cool, cut it into shapes resembling thick wafers, which put into two quarts of strong consomme of fowl, together with half a pint of green asparagus-heads previously boiled for that purpose, a small piece of sugar, and a few tarragon leaves. Allow the soup to boil very gently by the side of the fire for a few minutes, and then serve. Consomme a la Princesse Take two ounces of pearl barley; wash and blanch it, and put it to boil in one pint of bright consomme of fowl. When the barley is sufficiently done, put it into the soup tureen with the breast of a spring chicken (previously roasted and cut up for the purpose); to these add two quarts of chicken consommd; and after having tested the seasoning of the soup, send to table. Consomme a la Tivoli This is a rich consomme made with beef stock and fortified with chicken essence, clarified in the usual manner and seasoned, to which is added a garnish composed of very small chicken farce quenelles coloured with spinach greening, each farced with a green pea; also the red part of finely-shredded cooked spring carrots and small strips of smoked ox-tongue. Serve the soup with thinly-cut slices of milk bread, baked to a fawny colour in a moderate oven. The latter must be served hot in a folded serviette.