233 ENTREES OF BEEF meat over this, and then place the fillets of soles round it in a slanting position; the fillets must be neatly turned under the base, and securely fastened inside the cylinder with the point of a knife and a little force-meat. Cover the turban with a band of buttered paper secured with string. An hour before dinner-time, put the turban in the oven to bake; when done, remove the paper, place the turban carefully on a dish, pour some Tomato sauce round the base, and serve. Mazarine of Whiting a la Venitienne Prepare eight to ten ounces of quenelle force-meat with the fillets of one or two whiting, and mix with it a gill of puree of mushrooms, (see p. 30), one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one ounce of black truffles also chopped, and one whisked white of egg. Next butter a plain round mould, line the inside with white paper, and then fill it with the force-meat. An hour before dinner-time, steam the mazarine in the usual way, and when done, turn out of the mould on a dish ; place a border of fillets of whitings round the top, pour some Venetian sauce round the sides of the mazarine, and serve. Mazarine of Goose Livers a la Toulouse Procure two fine Strasbourg goose livers, cut twelve flat scallops in the form of flat fingers, and with the trimmings make some force- meat (see p. 61). Next line a plain round mould with buttered white paper, and then fill it with the prepared ingredients, thus :— Spread a layer of force-meat half an inch thick at the bottom of the mould, then line the sides in a similar manner; place the scallops of fat livers in a perpendicular position, fill up the interstices with the remainder of the force-meat, and cover the top with buttered paper. An hour and a half before dinner-time, steam the mazarine in a deep stew-pan with a little water, and cover it with its lid con- taining live embers of charcoal. Care must be taken to prevent the water from boiling over into the mould. When the mazarine is done, turn it out of the mould on a dish, pour some Madeira sauce over the entree, and serve. ENTREES OF BEEF Plain Rump = Steak Take one and a half pounds of rump-steak cut rather thick. Trim neatly, season with a little pepper and salt, and broil over a clear fire; when done, remove it carefully from the gridiron in order to preserve the gravy which collects on its upper surface. Place the steak on a dish, rub a small pat of fresh butter over it, garnish with grated horse-radish, and send some beef gravy separately to table in a sauce-boat. Many, however, prefer the gravy which runs out of a juicy steak when well broiled to any other addition. Small ribs of beef, and especially steaks cut from between the small ribs, form an excellent substitute for rump-steaks; both, when nicely broiled, may be served with cold Maitre d’Hotel butter,