4i3 CAKES IN GENERAL slightly brushed over with a soft pencil-brush dipped in a small quantity of carmine, thus giving to the cake a tinge of colour similar to a ripe peach. These cakes may be dished up with whipped cream in the centre of the dish. Apricot Biscuits These are prepared exactly like the last recipe, except that they should be smaller—so as to resemble apricots in size and form, apricot jam being used to stick them together with. Then dip in the following preparation :—To one pound of fine loaf-sugar placed in a sugar-boiler, add half a pint of cold water; boil these over a brisk fire until the sugar while boiling throws up pearl-like bubbles. Dip the fingers in water, and press some of the sugar with the thumb and forefinger; when it looks like glue remove from the fire, and ten minutes afterwards add whatever flavouring is intended to be used, in a liquid state, such as liqueurs, strong vanilla, orange or lemon syrups, or infusions: any one of the foregoing must be gradually mixed in with the boiled sugar, quickly stirring and working the sugar in the pan the while; and, when thoroughly mixed, the cakes should be dipped in, and placed on a wire-drainer to set. The yellow tinge required for the icing in this case may be given by using either some orange sugar or a small decoction of saffron ; but the latter is objectionable on account of its flavour. Chocolate Glaces The foundation for these may be made either of pound cake (p. 403) or Genoese (p. 406); the batter for making either of the above may be first baked, and afterwards cut out in shapes and sizes to suit taste or convenience; or otherwise may be baked in appropriate moulds or cases for the purpose; they must then be dipped in the following preparation First boil the sugar as directed in the last recipe, and when it has reached its proper degree of heat for icing, add three ounces of chocolate dissolved in a wine-glassful of water; work the whole well together, and use while hot; but if it should become cold, and set before the glazing is finished, the icing may be easily liquefied again by stirring it over the fire. Cakes both large and small may be iced or glazed in this manner in almost infinite variety, by using any kind of liqueur or a very strong infusion of tea or coffee instead of chocolate. Swiss Leckerlets Ingredients : 8 oz. honey, 4 oz. sweet almonds blanched and shred, 1 oz. cinnamon powder, ^ oz. ground cloves, i nutmeg grated, 3 oz. castor sugar, 1 teaspoonful bicarbonate of soda, 1 oz. candied orange, lemon, and citron, 1 tablespoonful Kirschwasser, 1 table- spoonful orange-flower water, 10 oz. flour. Put the honey in a copper egg-bowl on the fire, and when it is melted, skim off the froth and immediately add the shred almonds and the ground spices; mix these well together with a wooden spoon, and then add the sugar, the Kirschwasser, the orange-flower