TYPICAL ENGLISH SOUPS 99 Hare Soup a la St. George Get one good-sized leveret and fillet it. Place the fillets in a small saute-pan with a little fresh butter, pepper, and salt; cover them with a round of buttered paper and put them in the larder till dinner-time. Reserve a sufficient quantity of the meat from the leveret’s hind-quarters in order to make some quenelle; cut the remainder into small pieces and fry them exactly in the same manner as directed in the preceding soup; shake into them two ounces of flour to thicken the sauce of the soup, moisten with a glass of claret and three pints of veal stock; add a bunch of herbs made with a sprig or two of basil, marjoram, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, four cloves, mace, and two shalots. Let the soup boil, skim it well, and when the hare is thoroughly done pass the soup through a tammy or fine sieve into a sauce-pan ; put this on the fire to clarify, and that it may be reduced if necessary, and then pour it into the soup-tureen, which should contain eighteen small quenelles made with the meat reserved for that purpose as before mentioned; also the scallops of hare prepared by lightly frying the fillets in the saute- pan, and which must be afterwards scalloped. Season to taste, and send to table. Leveret Soup Get a good-sized leveret, cut it into pieces, and fry these in -a stew-pan with two ounces of butter; as soon as they are brown moisten with a glass or two of sherry, allow the wine to boil, then add three pints of consomme or veal stock, garnish with carrot, onion, celery, mace, cloves, and peppercorns, a bouquet of bay-leaf, thyme, basil, marjoram, and winter savory; let these herbs be used in small quantities in order that they may give flavour without predominating. When the soup has boiled three-quarters of an hour let the pieces of hare be drained on a sieve, and at the same time pass the broth into a bgsin; afterwards place the pieces of hare on a napkin, and when neatly trimmed put them into a soup-tureen. Next clarify the consomme in the usual manner and strain it through a napkin on to the pieces of leveret; and, just before sending to table, add to the soup eighteen very small quenelles of leveret, and some white celery cut into shreds and boiled in a small quantity of the soup. Ox=Cheek Soup Procure half of a fresh ox-cheek, and put it to braise in a small stock-pot with a pound of knuckle of veal and some roast-beef bones ; add three pints from the boiling stock-pot, or water; garnish with the same amount of stock vegetables used for ox-tail soup (see p. 97), adding three or four cloves, a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns. As soon as the ox-cheek is done, take the meat off the cheek-bone and put it in press between two dishes. Strain off the broth, adding to it half a pint of gravy to colour it, and proceed to clarify it with a couple of whites of eggs. While the consommd is clarifying, trim the ox-cheek and cut it into neat scallops