3l9 ENTREES OF RABBIT AND HARE the same shape; draw the point of a small knife round the inside of the edge of the croutons, and when they are fried a light golden colour, remove the inner piece, fill the cavities with the puree, and place them in a sautd-pan with a round of buttered paper over. J ust before dinner-time simmer the cutlets over a slow fire for about five minutes, turn them over when done on the under side, and allow them to remain two minutes longer; pour off the butter, add a little glaze and a gill of the sauce, toss them in this, and dish up in a close circle placing one of the croutons (previously warmed) between each cutlet; fill the centre with slices of the kidneys and small fillets tossed in a little of the sauce, pour the sauce round, and serve. Escallops of Hare with Fine Herbs Cut the fillets of a small hare into escallops, flatten them slightly, trim neatly, and place in a stew-pan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and fry on both sides over a brisk fire for about five minutes; pour off the butter, add a pint of Fine Herbs sauce (see p. 5); simmer the escallops over the fire for two minutes, pile them up in the centre of the dish, pour the sauce over, garnish round with croquettes made with the hind-quarters, as on p. 317, and serve. Escallops of Hare a la P6rigueux Prepare the escallops and fry them as above ; pour off the butter, add a pint of P^rigueux sauce (see p. 7) and some slices of truffles; simmer over the fire for three minutes, dish up in the form of a dome, garnish round with croquettes in the form of pears, and serve. Note.—Escallops of hares may also be finished with the following sauces: Poivrade, Italian, Tomato, Espagnole, and Bourguignote; in either case escallops of truffles, tongue, or mushrooms may be added. Jugged Hare with Mushrooms Cut a small hare into neat joints, then parboil four ounces of streaky bacon and cut it into dice; fry these in a stew-pan until they brown, then take them out, and fry the pieces of hare brown also. Next dredge one ounce of flour over them and toss them over the fire for three minutes; add the fried bacon, six or eight mushrooms, an onion stuck with four cloves, a carrot and a bouquet garni; season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of port wine and a pint of good stock, stir the civet on the fire till it boils, and then remove it to the side that it may clarify itself by gentle boiling. Fry twelve button-onions in a small stew-pan with a little butter for five minutes, and when the civet has boiled about half an hour, throw these in; as soon as the pieces of hare become tender, remove the scum from the surface, take out the onion, carrot, and herbs; and if too much sauce, pour it into another stew-pan, and reduce by boiling, stirring it with a wooden spoon to prevent its burning, then pass it through a tammy upon the civet. Pile up the pieces of hare in the centre of the dish, and garnish round with the