456 THE MODERN COOK Macedoine of Fruits This may be made with every kind of jelly, mixed with a variety of the most delicate fruits in season : these should be arranged with taste, so as to show their forms and colours to the best advantage. The most appropriate fruits are peaches, nectarines, apricots, all kinds of plums, strawberries, raspberries, mulberries, red, white, and black currants, cherries, pears, oranges, pomegranates, grapes, etc. Orange Jelly garnished with Quarters of Oranges Peel six oranges with a sharp knife, leaving the transparent pulp quite bare; divide each into six, cutting the orange lengthwise, thus giving an angular form to the pieces; put these into a small pre- serving pan with a pint of clarified syrup, and boil up on the fire for not more that two minutes, then pour the pieces of oranges and their syrup into a basin and put on one side in a cool place. Prepare about a pint of orange jelly as directed in previous recipes, using the syrup from the pieces of oranges, which must be drained upon a sieve for that purpose. Next set a plain mould in some crushed ice, and proceed to garnish it with the pieces of oranges and the jelly, first pouring a little jelly on the bottom of the mould; then, when the jelly is set, arrange a layer of the pieces of oranges upon it in close circular order, one resting upon another, pour sufficient jelly upon these to cover the layer, and when this has become firm, place another layer of oranges upon it, and so on, until the mould is filled. Maraschino Jelly To one pint of clarified syrup add one ounce of dissolved gelatine, the juice of two lemons, and a gill and a half of genuine maraschino; pour this into a jelly mould ready set in crushed ice. Note.—Jellies flavoured with noyau, Kirschwasser, Dantzic brandy, cedratti, and all other kinds of liqueurs, when made with gelatine or isinglass, are prepared as the above. Variegated Jelly a la Victoria Prepare some jelly with Dantzic brandy (sometimes named “gold- and-silver water ”). Parboil and remove the skin from three ounces of pistachios, and shred each kernel into six strips. Set a jelly mould in some crushed ice, pour a little of the jelly into the bottom of the mould, and then sprinkle some of the prepared pistachios in it; when this has become firm, pour in a little more of the jelly and sprinkle a few more pistachios; as these layers become set, repeat the process until the mould is filled, and leave the jelly to remain in the ice until quite firm. Panachee Jelly This may be prepared with any kind of light-coloured jelly, which must be divided into two equal parts: add a few drops of carmine to one half, and leave the remainder plain. Then set the mould in ice, pour enough of the pink jelly into the mould to reach about a