245 ENTREES OF MUTTON Mutton Cutlets a la Minute Trim six or eight cutlets as above, then season with pepper and salt, and place them in a stew-pan with about two ounces of clarified butter. The cutlets must be fried over a rather brisk fire a brown colour. Pour off the fat, and add half a pint of Espagnole sauce, a piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon; set the cutlets again on the fire to simmer gently for two minutes, dish up, and pour the sauce over them. The centre of this entree may be filled with mashed potatoes, mashed turnips, spinach, potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel, etc. Mutton Cutlets a la Maintenon These are prepared, in the first instance, according to the former part of the directions for cutlets h la Minute; season with pepper and salt, add a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, the same quantity of parsley, and three shalots also chopped. Fry the cutlets brown on both sides, pour off the fat, and add half a pint of brown sauce, a very little grated nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon; allow the whole to simmer together on the fire for five minutes, and then put in the larder to cool. Meanwhile take as many sheets of large-sized notepaper as there are cutlets, cut each somewhat in the form of a heart, and let them be oiled. Next place a cutlet with an equal proportion of the sauce in one of these papers, and with the fore- finger and thumb of the right hand twist the edges of the paper tightly under into very close folds, and repeat this with the remainder. A quarter of an hour before sending to table, put the cutlets in the oven in a stew-pan to get warm through; then with a heated iron skewer, mark the papers so as to make it appear that they have been broiled; dish up on a napkin with fried parsley in the centre, and send some Brown Italian or Fine Herbs sauce in a boat. Mutton Cutlets a la Bourguignote Trim the cutlets, and arrange them in circular order in a stew-pan with a little clarified butter. Then fry them quickly on a brisk fire to brown on both sides, and before they are quite done pour off all the fat; add a glass of red wine (port or claret), about one dozen prepared mushrooms, and the same quantity of small button-onions (previously simmered in a little butter over a slow fire until nearly done); season with a pinch of mignonette pepper and a little salt, some grated nutmeg and a teaspoonful of castor sugar; set the whole to boil on the fire for two minutes, and then add half a pint of brown sauce ; cover the cutlets and allow to simmer very gently on a slow fire for twenty minutes, by which time they will be done, and the sauce sufficiently reduced. The cutlets must then be dished up closely in a circle ; add half a glass of red wine, boil the whole together for a minute, and garnish the centre of the entree with the mushrooms, etc., pour the sauce over the cutlets, and serve.