DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL ”5 together a few minutes on the fire; then dish up the fillets, one overlapping the other, in a circle; pass the sauce through a tammy or fine strainer, make it hot, and mix in a pat of butter; coat the fillets with the sauce, and serve. Fillets of Turbot a la Ravigote Prepare the fillets of turbot as directed in the preceding recipe, place them in a saute-pan with two and a half ounces of fresh butter, season with pepper and salt and lemon juice; ten minutes before dinner set them on a moderate fire, and when sufficiently simmered on one side, turn them carefully on the other, so as not to break them; when done, drain the fillets on a napkin, and dish them up, overlaying each other so as to form a close circle; sauce them with some white Ravigote sauce (see p. 6), and send to table. Fillets of Turbot a la Vertre Prepare the fillets as for the previous entree, and dish them up in a similar manner; fill the centre with crayfish tails; pour some Ravigote sauce (see p. 19) over the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Turbot a l’ltalienne Prepare, dress, and dish up the fillets of turbot as in the previous recipe, and sauce the entree with some Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5), in which incorporate a pat of anchovy butter and a teaspoonful of chopped capers. Fillets of Turbot a la Cardinal Cut, dress, and dish up the fillets of turbot as directed in former recipes; sauce them with some Cardinal sauce (see p. 13), and garnish the centre of the entrde with six prawns or crayfish tails, twelve small quenelles of whiting or lobster, and six small button- mushrooms. Fillets of turbot may be dressed in a variety of ways, according to the sauce or garnish used, from which, accordingly, the fillets derive their denomination : as, for instance, a la Maitre d’Hotel, k la Sauce Homard or Lobster sauce, k la Sauce aux Huitres or Oyster sauce, etc., etc., etc. Brill This species of fish, bearing a great resemblance to turbot, may be dressed in every variety of form in which turbot is capable of being sent to table ; it may also be served plain boiled, with either Lobster, Shrimp, Crayfish, Anchovy, Caper, Dutch, Oyster, Mussel, or Ravigote sauce. John Dory This kind of fish, although a great favourite with many, is very seldom sent to table in any other shape than as a plain boiled fish, either with Lobster or Dutch sauce; it may, however, be prepared by following the recipes given for turbot.