7 6 THE MODERN COOK put them into a sauce-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, an ounce of lump sugar, and a little salt. Set the carrots thus prepared on a slow lire to steam, and when they have become considerably reduced in quantity (without burning or acquiring any colour) add to them two quarts of good stock, and let the carrots boil gently for an hour; then drain them—pound and rub them through a tammy or sieve in the usual way, and clarify the puree in the same manner as directed in the preceding recipe. Finish this soup by incorporating with it one ounce of fresh butter and a pinch of castor sugar. Brown Puree of Turnips Slice up about six or eight small turnips, put them into a stew-pan into which one and a half ounces of fresh butter have been previously melted, and add a teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Fry the turnips thus prepared over a rather brisk fire in order to give them a light- brown colour ; then add two quarts of good stock, allow the soup to boil gently by the side of the fire for about three-quarters of an hour; then drain, mash, and proceed to clarify the pur6e in the usual manner. Observe that this kind of puree should not be thick. White Puree of Turnips Slice up six or eight small turnips, put them into a stew-pan with one and a half ounces of fresh butter, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. Put these to simmer on a slow fire, without allowing them to acquire any colour. When the turnips begin to melt, add two quarts of white consomme of fowl; and having set the whole to boil gently on the corner of the stove for about three-quarters of an hour, proceed to drain, mash, and pound the turnips—reserving the stock they have been boiled in to clarify the puree with ; after it has boiled, take off all the scum, and finish the soup by adding (just before sending to table) half a pint of cream and a small pat of fresh butter, which must be thoroughly in- corporated with the soup. Palestine Soup Scrub, wash, peel, and slice up two pounds of Jerusalem arti- chokes ; put them into a stew-pan with one and a half ounces of fresh butter, and allow them to simmer gently on a slow fire until they are reduced in quantity and partially melted—taking care that they do not get coloured in the process. Then add two quarts of strong white consomm£ of fowl, and after allowing it to boil gently for three-quarters of an hour, proceed to rub the whole through a tammy-cloth or fine sieve in the usual way, and clarify the puree. Just before sending to table add half a pint of cream, a small piece of glaze, and a pinch of sugar. Puree of Artichokes Trim the bottoms of six or eight fine globe artichokes, and, after taking out the fibrous part inside, cut each into four pieces; put them into a large stew-pan with one and a half ounces of butter and