THE MODERN COOK 22 Cream Sauce, or Bechamel, for Salt=Fish Place two ounces of sifted flour in a stew-pan with an equal quantity of fresh butter; knead them together well with a wooden spoon ; add a small onion, a small carrot, a small head of celery,—the whole cut up thin,—some parsley, a sprig of thyme, and half a bay- leaf, two cloves, a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns; moisten with about a pint of good white consomme and a tablespoonful of cream, adding a little salt; stir the sauce on the fire until it boils. Let it continue to boil for ten minutes, stirring it the whole time ; then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie, to be kept for use. Beurre Noir, or Black Butter Sauce Place about three ounces of good fresh butter in a small stew-pan, put it on the fire to melt, and then allow it to fry so as to acquire a light brown colour; then take it off the stove, skim it, and quickly pass it through a sieve into a stew-pan containing a tablespoonful of French vinegar, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, ditto Harvey’s sauce, ditto mushroom catsup, and a piece of glaze the size of a small walnut, and sufficient pepper and salt to season the sauce. Boil the whole well together, and use it for boiled skate or broiled mackerel. With whatever kind of fish this sauce is served, fried parsley forms an indispensable adjunct. Orleans Sauce Take the red part of a boiled carrot, the fillets of two washed anchovies, the whole of one egg boiled hard, and three green gherkins; cut these into small, square, dice-like shapes, and place them in a small bain-marie. Add half a pint of Poivrade sauce (see p. 8), boil together gently for five minutes, and use this sauce for braised meats. Devil’s Sauce Chop three shalots fine, and place them in a small stew-pan with one tablespoonful of French vinegar and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Boil these together for three minutes; then add half a pint of thin, strong Espagnole sauce, and a dessertspoonful of Tomato sauce; boil again, and finish by stirring in half an ounce of anchovy butter (see p. 18). This sauce is most appropriate for broiled meats. COLD SAUCES Cambridge Sauce Take the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, the fillets of four anchovies, cleaned, and put them into a mortar with a tablespoonful of French capers, a tablespoonful of tarragon, chervil, chives, and a little burnet, blanched; pound these well together with a teaspoonful of English mustard, the same quantity of French, and some pepper