439 RICE CAKES AND TIMBALES flower, lemon and cinnamon, coffee, or any kind of liqueur: dried cherries, currants, sultana raisins, candied orange, lemon or citron, or pistachio kernels may be added. Timbale of Rice The only difference between this and a rice cake consists in the mould being lined either with short or puff paste; nouille paste, however, is sometimes used for the purpose: it should be rolled in the form of very small pipes, and the mould closely lined with them. The prepared rice should then be poured into the mould, and baked for about an hour and a half. When done, turn the timbale out of the mould on to a dish, glaze over with sugar, and brown in the oven. Then pour some kind of diluted preserve (warm) round the base, and serve hot. Nouilles Cake a l’Allemande Prepare four ounces of nouilles (see p. 208), put them into a stew-pan with a pint of milk of almonds,1 three ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, a few drops of vanilla essence, and a very little salt; cover with the lid, and leave to simmer very gently by the side of a slow fire; by the time that the nouilles have absorbed all the milk, they will be sufficiently done, and must then be withdrawn from the fire and emptied into a basin. Add the yolks of two eggs and the whipped whites of two, mix the whole lightly together, and pour into a buttered mould lined with shredded almonds. The cake must then be baked a light brown, and when done, turned out of the mould on a dish, and served with some Victoria Cherry sauce (see p. 16). Note.—This kind of cake may also be made with macaroni, vermicelli, or semolina, and flavoured in the same manner as rice cakes or timbales. Vermicelli Cake Parboil six ounces of vermicelli, drain it on a sieve, and then put it into a stew-pan with half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, one ounce of butter, three ounces of sugar, the zest or essence of the rind of one orange extracted by rubbing on a piece of sugar, and a little salt; cover with the lid, and set the stew-pan to simmer very gently on a'slow fire until the vermicelli has entirely absorbed the milk, etc. Then add the yolks of two eggs and the whipped whites of two, mix the whole lightly together, and pour into a buttered mould lined with bread-crumbs; bake the cake in the oven for about an hour, turn it out on a dish, pour some Damson sauce round the base, and serve. 1 Milk of almonds is prepared in the following manner :—Remove the skins from eight ounces of sweet almonds and one ounce of bitter almonds, then pound them thoroughly in a mortar, adding occasionally a few drops of water; when well pounded, put them in a basin, add a quart of cold water, mix well together, and allow to stand for about an hour ; the milk may then be drawn off by straining it through a napkin or fine strainer.