THE MODERN COOK i66 Braised Roll of Beef a la Richelieu Braise the roll of beef in exactly the same manner as directed for beef a la Flamande (see p. 163); when done, drain, trim, glaze, and dish it up; garnish with glazed onions, and round the outer circle of the well of the dish, place a border of quenelles of pheasant, which, after being first poached in the usual manner, are to be bread- crumbed and fried a golden colour; then sauce lightly with the essence in which the beef has been braised (clarified and boiled down to the consistency of half glaze for the purpose). Send some of the essence separately in a sauce-boat, and serve. Braised Roll of Beef a la Dauphinoise For this purpose the roll of beef should be braised sufficiently tender to enable it to be cut with a spoon; it should be allowed to cool in its own liquor, and when nearly cold, drained, trimmed, and placed on a deep baking-dish, and then covered over entirely with a coating of thick Soubise sauce; when the sauce has become firmly set on the beef by getting cold, egg it over, and bread-crumb it twice ; sprinkle a little clarified butter over the surface of the beef; and about half an hour before dinner, set the beef thus prepared in a very hot oven that it may be baked to a light brown; place it on its dish, sauce round with a Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5), and garnish it with a border of tomatoes prepared au gratin (see p. 344), and send to table. Braised Roll of Beef garnished with Glazed Vegetables Braise, trim, glaze, and dish the roll of beef up as directed for beef a la Flamande; garnish it round with young carrots, turnips, and onions, cut into fancy shapes and stewed in the usual manner, and placed in alternate groups; sauce the beef with some Espagnole or Poivrade sauce, and send to table. Braised Rump of Beef The rump is considered to be the best for braising, and should be chosen of fine quality for this purpose: rich-grained, of a deep bright-red colour, and well covered with a thick coating of delicate- looking fat. Procure three or four pounds of the rump. Bone the beef, and after having trimmed it, secure its shape with string, and braise it as directed for braised rolls of beef, following those in- structions, according to the manner in which the rump of beef is intended to be dressed—as, for instance, h. la Flamande, a la Printanibre, etc., etc., etc. BRAISED AND ROAST FILLETS OF BEEF Fillet of Beef if la Napolitaine Procure three or four pounds of fillet of beef, and with a thin- bladed knife pare off the sinewy skin which covers it, lard it closely in the usual manner, and prepare it for braising as follows:—First,