BRAISED AND ROAST FILLETS OF BEEF 169 pulp of a lemon, and a little mignonette pepper; pour about a gill of salad oil over the whole, and allow the fillet of beef to steep in this marinade for several hours—taking care to turn it over occasionally so that it may absorb a portion of the oil impregnated with the flavour of the various ingredients. About an hour and a half before dinner, remove every particle of marinade from the fillet of beef, the fillet either in front of the fire or in the oven—basting it frequently ; take care that the heat is not too fierce, as in that case the larding will be scorched, which would spoil not only its appearance, but also injure the flavour. Towards the last five minutes glaze over the larding with some thin, light-coloured glaze twice or thrice, and dish it up; garnish round with potatoes cut into fancy shapes and fried, placing at each end a tablespoonful of scraped horse-radish; pour a bright Madeira sauce (see p. 4) round, glaze the fillet over afresh, and send to table. Braised Fillet of Beef a la Nivernaise Braise a larded fillet of beef according to the instructions given for the fillet of beef it la Macedoine (see p. 167); when done, glaze it brightly, dish it up and garnish it round with a Nivernaise (see p. 33), and send to table. Braised Fillet of Beef a la Royale Closely lard a thick fillet of beef, lard it with small square fillets of lean ham, fat bacon, and truffles; prepare it for braising with the trimmings and the usual quantity of vegetables, etc., and moisten with wine or Madeira. Set the fillet to simmer gently on a slow fire in the usual way, carefully basting it occasionally with its liquor; when done, glaze it brightly, and afterwards dish it up; strain off the braise, clarify and reduce it, then add it to a Financiere ragout (see p. 44), with which garnish the fillet of beef; place round it a border of large crayfish, whole truffles, and cocks’-combs, and send to table. Roast Fillet of Beef a la Parisienne Roast a larded fillet of beef according to directions given for the fillet of beef a l’Anglaise (see p. 168); when done, dish it up, and surround it with alternate groups of green peas and crayfish tails (tossed in a little glaze); sauce the fillet round with a rich Madeira sauce (see p. 4), finished with some crayfish butter and a little lemon juice, and send to table. Roast Fillet of Beef a la Provengale Steep a larded fillet of beef in the marinade as directed for the fillet of beef a l’Anglaise, adding to the ingredients therein mentioned a clove of garlic and the pulp of half a lemon ; allow the fillet suffi- cient time to become thoroughly saturated with the marinade; roast as before directed, glaze and dish it up, garnish it round with tomatoes au gratin (see p. 344), and pour round it some Provengale