THE MODERN COOK 332 Salmi of Partridges with Aspic Jelly Prepare the salmi as directed on p. 327; keep the pieces of partridges separate from the sauce, which, when partially cold, must be mixed with one-third of its quantity of dissolved aspic jelly, and gently stirred on the ice until of the right consistency for masking the pieces of partridges: these must be raised on a dish in pyramidal form. Pour the remainder of the sauce over the entree, which should be garnished in the same manner as the last dish. Note.—Salmis of pheasants, woodcocks, quails, etc., are prepared for ball-suppers and similar entertainments in the same way as partridges. ENTRIES OF WOODCOCK, SNIPE, AND ORTOLAN Woodcock a la Financiere Truss three woodcocks in the usual way, and lard the breasts closely; place them in a braise-pan lined at the bottom with thin layers of fat bacon; moisten with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57), place a round of buttered paper upon them, cover with the lid containing live embers of charcoal, and leave to braise gently for about three- quarters of an hour over a moderate fire or in the oven, frequently basting them with their own liquor. When the birds are nearly done, remove the lid and paper to dry the larding for a minute or so, then glaze the woodcocks, and drain them upon a plate; remove the strings, and place them in the dish with their backs resting upright against a croustade of fried bread, about four inches high, and cut in an angular form; place a decorated quenelle between each woodcock, a large truffle on the top of the croustade, and a border of white cocks’-combs round this; garnish with a Financiere ragout (see p. 44), glaze the larding, and serve. Woodcock a la Perigord Draw three fine fat woodcocks, reserving the livers and trail; stuff them with the usual preparation of truffles (see p. 204), and truss them as for roasting; then place them upon a double sheet of paper thickly spread with butter; wrap the paper round them, secure it with string, and roast the woodcocks before a brisk fire or in the oven for about three-quarters of an hour: they must then be dished up in the form of an angle ; fill the centre with small quenelles, pour some Pdrigueux sauce (see p. 7) over the woodcocks, place a dozen crofitons round the entree, and serve. Croutons for Woodcock The above-named crofitons are thus prepared :—Fry the trail, etc., in a small saute-pan with a little butter, a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and half a shalot; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and then add a tablespoonful of reduced Espagnole