THE MODERN COOK I52 that they are small or that they are plentiful; otherwise it is usual to dress this kind of fish whole. Fillets of Perch a ITtalienne Follow the directions given for filleting pike, skinning the fillets of perch in like manner; trim them neatly by rounding them at one end, and bring the other end to a point. Then lay the fillets in a circle in a baking-dish with one or two ounces of clarified fresh butter; season with a little salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Twenty minutes before dinner-time, set the fillets on the fire or in the oven for about ten minutes to simmer; and when they are thoroughly done, drain and dish them up in the form of a close circle; sauce with a White or Brown Italian sauce, and send to table. Fillets of perch thus prepared may also be sent to table with either of the following sauces, from which the dish will take its name: a la Ravigote, a la Maitre d’Hotel, a la Cardinal, a la Vertpre, k la Hollandaise. Water Souchet of Fillets of Perch Procure one or two good-sized perch, clean and fillet them. Place the fillets neatly in a deep saute-pan, and put them in the larder until wanted. Meanwhile, with the bones and trimmings prepare the souchet broth according to the directions given for making the salmon souchet, and finishing in precisely the same manner. SKATE, WHITEBAIT, AND SHELLFISH Although the skate is not held in much repute, it nevertheless is not unworthy the notice of the epicure when properly dressed. In order to clean this fish, skin it on both sides, draw and wash it thoroughly; then lay the skate flat on the table, and cut it up in the following manner:—First, with a sharp knife, separate, on both sides, the fleshy parts of the fish from the back-bone, drawing the knife in a curving direction; afterwards cut these wing-like pieces into long strips by cutting right through the cartilaginous or finny parts; then place the strips in a pan filled with fresh water from the pump in order to crimp them. In like manner cut the fleshy parts remaining, and also the back-bone itself, into three-inch lengths, and place them also in the cold water to be crimped. The water in which the fish is placed should be changed often, until the crimping be effected. Crimped Skate, Boiled Turn the fin-pieces of skate round and fasten them with string, boil the fish in hot water with a tablespoonful of salt in it; when done, drain and dish it up on a napkin; garnish round with a row of chopped parsley and send to table with either of the following sauces in a sauce-boat: Lobster, Crayfish, Shrimp, Anchovy, Dutch, Mussel, or Oyster sauce.