214 THE MODERN COOK heated oven for about two hours; when it has become cold, remove the crust, wash the edges and sides of the pan, and pour a little fresh clarified butter on the top; when cold, ornament with a neat border of picked double parsley, set the pie on a folded napkin laid on its dish, and serve. This is perhaps the best method for making pies of woodcocks or snipes, as from the simplicity of the ingredients used, the birds retain their flavour—an important consideration with amateurs for this kind of game. Lark Pie a la Melton Mowbray Pick and clean one dozen larks, singe them, cut off the wings and legs, and with the point of a small knife remove the gizzards, and then set the larks aside on a dish. Next cut half a pound of lean veal and half a pound of ham into thin slices; fry these with a little fresh butter, half-a-dozen button-mushrooms, some parsley and a shalot, half a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme chopped fine; season with cayenne and salt, and the juice of a lemon. To these add a gill of Veloute or Espagnole sauce, and half a gill of rich gravy; boil the whole together for three minutes, then place the slices of veal and ham one upon the other in the bottom of the dish; put the larks neatly and close to each other upon these, pour the sauce over them, and place the mushrooms in the centre; cover with puff-paste, bake the pie for one hour and a quarter, and serve. MEAT PUDDINGS Beefsteak and Oyster Pudding Line a pint and a half pudding-basin with suet crust made with half a pound of chopped beef suet and three-quarters of a pound of flour; fill this lining with a preparation similar to that described for making beefsteak and oyster pie (see p. 213), except that the sauce must be more reduced. When the pudding is filled, wet the edges of the crust round the top of the basin with a paste-brush dipped in water, cover it with a piece of suet-crust rolled out to the size of the basin, fasten it down by bearing all round the edge with the thumb; and then with the thumb and forefinger twist the edges of the paste over and over so as to give it a corded appearance. This pudding must be either steamed or boiled three hours ; when done, turn it out of the basin carefully, pour some rich brown gravy under it, and serve. Mutton Pudding Line a basin with suet crust as above directed, fill the lining with boned mutton cutlets slightly trimmed, or, if preferred, with steaks cut from the leg; season with pepper and salt, some parsley, a little thyme and one small shalot chopped fine, and between each layer of meat put some slices of potatoes. Cover the pudding as in the foregoing recipe, steam or boil it for three hours, and serve some rich gravy under it when sent to table.