224 THE MODERN COOK sufficiently boiled and effectually worked into a smooth paste, it becomes a difficult matter to mould it, and any apparent roughness would spoil the look of the casserole. For a casserole of ordinary size wash about a pound of Carolina rice in three waters, drain it on a sieve, and put it into a stew-pan with twice its quantity of water; cover and set the rice to boil on the stove, after which it must be put in the oven, or on the side of the stove, to simmer very gently. During the time that the rice remains on the fire it should be carefully stirred with a spoon now and again. When all the grains are perfectly soft the rice must be worked into a firm, smooth paste with the bowl of a large wooden spoon ; it should next be rolled into the form of a ball and placed on a baking - sheet, previously covered with a circular piece of buttered paper, and shaped to the height and circumference desired. Next, for the purpose of imprinting upon the casserole some desired form of ornamental mouldings, it will be necessary to cut a piece of turnip, carrot, or raw potato in the shape of a chisel, to be used for indenting or moulding the design. When the casserole is moulded it must be brushed over with clarified butter, and afterwards baked a fine yellow colour; the interior must then be removed with a spoon, leaving the walls of the crust about half an inch thick; smooth the inside of the rice with the back of a tablespoon dipped in water, and keep the casserole in a dry warm place till it is wanted for use. Casserole of Rice a la Polonaise Prepare a puree of fowl (see p. ioo), and when on the point of sending to table, stir it over the fire until it is sufficiently hot; then fill the casserole with the puree, put small fillets of fowl decorated with tongue or truffle round the top of the puree, sauce the surface with some Supreme, and serve. Casserole of Rice a la Reine The casserole must be filled with a puree of fowl in a similar manner to the foregoing, and a border of quenelles of fowl placed round the inner edge of the surface; sauce with Supreme, glaze the casserole with light-coloured glaze, and serve. Casserole of Rice garnished with a Puree of Game a la Belle = Vue Just before dinner-time warm the puree of game (see p. ior) prepared for the purpose, fill the casserole of rice with it, place round the inner edge of the surface a border of very small fillets of the kind of game the puree is made from, pour a little Allemande sauce over the centre, glaze the casserole lightly, and serve. Casserole of Rice garnished with Wings of Fowls a l’Allemande Fill a casserole of rice with a ragout of wings of fowls (see p. 48), to which may be added some small truffles and mushrooms; ornament