THE MODERN COOK 45° Queen Pudding Three oz. flour (sifted), i oz. glac£ cherries, 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. fresh butter, 3 eggs, ^ lemon, £ teaspoonful baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the eggs one by one and beat up well. Next add the flour; mix well, and stir in the cherries cut up small, the lemon juice, also the finely grated rind, and lastly the baking powder. Put the mixture in buttered pudding moulds and bake for about thirty minutes in a moderate oven. When done, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with Lemon or Cherry sauce poured round the base of the dish. French Peach Pudding Five preserved peaches, 1 gill cream, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, the juice and rind of ^ lemon, a pinch of salt, a little butter, £ gill milk. Cut the peaches into small pieces and cook them with a little syrup. Mix the flour with the milk, add a pinch of salt, boil up the cream and mix both together, add the sugar, and stir over the fire until the mixture becomes smooth and leaves the sides and bottom of the stew-pan clean. When sufficiently cooled, add the juice and grated rind of lemon. Separate yolks from the whites of eggs, and work in the yolks one at a time. Whisk whites to a stiff froth and mix in lightly. Butter a pudding mould, garnish the bottom with a layer of peaches, and fill up alternately with a layer of the prepared mixture and the peaches; cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a moderately heated oven for thirty-five minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with a suitable fruit syrup. Italian Chestnut Pudding Take about two dozen sound chestnuts, cut each with the point of a knife, and plunge them into boiling water; allow them to boil for five minutes, then put them to drain, and remove their shells and skins; the chestnuts must now be cooked in milk till tender, with a small pod of vanilla; the latter must be removed when the chestnuts are rubbed through a wire-sieve. Add half a pint of milk and cream mixed, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, one ounce and a half of fresh butter; stir the whole over the fire for five minutes and allow to cool; add one by one four yolks of eggs and the well-whisked whites of four eggs. Butter a mould and ornament it with glace * cherries and citron peel, pour in the pudding mixture, cover with paper, and steam for one and a half to one and three-quarter hours. When done, turn out the pudding on a hot dish, pour round it a little fruit syrup or apricot pulp, and serve. Rusk Pudding Ingredients : i doz. rusks, 1 plain custard of 4 eggs, 1 pt. milk, 1 oz. sugar, 1 glass maraschino, a little salt, and 4 oz. dried cherries. Spread a plain mould with butter, arrange the cherries round the sides and bottom, dip the rusks in the custard, and arrange them in