ENTREES OF VEAL 255 sherry ; let this boil for two minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of brown gravy or stock ; allow the whole to simmer on the fire for five minutes, add a little lemon juice, and serve. Sheep’s Kidneys a la Claremont Slice up and fry the kidneys as directed for those dressed with fine herbs, and when browned add some Claremont sauce ; simmer the whole together for three minutes, and serve with a border of potato croquettes. Sheep’s=Head a la Gallimaufre Procure the head and pluck of a fresh-killed sheep, split the head into halves, remove the brains, steep the whole in water overnight, and wash them thoroughly. Next place the head, heart, and liver in a stew-pan with carrot, onion, bouquet garni, two blades of mace, six or eight cloves, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns; moisten with sufficient stock or water (if the latter be used salt must be added) to nearly cover the head ; cover the whole with buttered paper, and put the lid on; then set the stew-pan on a gentle fire to braise for about one hour and a half. When the head, etc., are done, take them up carefully on a dish, strain' the broth, and after having removed all the fat boil down one-half to thin glaze, and with the remainder make some brown sauce. The pieces of the head should be trimmed, seasoned with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and two shalots, then rubbed over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, well covered with bread-crumbs, and placed on a dish in the larder. The liver and heart must be minced up fine, and when the sauce has been reduced to the usual consistency add it to the mince, together with a teaspoonful of fine herbs and a little lemon juice. When about to send to table make the mince quite hot, and turn it out on a dish, place the pieces of the head—previously broiled on both sides a light golden colour, and afterwards nicely glazed—upon the mince; pour some of the thin glaze round the entree, and serve. Note.—Sheep’s or lambs’ heads, when braised and bread-crumbed, may also be served with any kind of sharp Piquante or Poivrade sauce. ENTREES OF VEAL Fricandeau with Puree of Green Peas The fricandeau piece consists of that part of the leg of veal generally called the cushion, and is found on the inner side of the leg, lying immediately under the udder or fatty covering. This part must be carefully cut out by making a semicircular incision from one end round to the other, following the evident natural indication. Flatten the piece of veal slightly with a cutlet-bat, and then pare off the upper and under sinewy covering, leaving the surface perfectly smooth. The fricandeau must then be closely larded with strips of fat bacon in the usual manner. Next strew the bottom of a braising