RAGOUTS AND GARNISHES IN GENERAL 45 sieve in order to free them from the butter, and place them in a bain-marie with an equal quantity of white button mushrooms, crayfish tails, and some quenelles of whiting; to these add half a pint of Matelote sauce (see p. 9), and after allowing the ragofit to boil for two or three minutes, use it for garnishing the matelote or any other dressed coloured fish it is intended for. Matelote Normande Ragout Prepare one dozen of crayfish tails, and place them in a stew-pan with an equal proportion of mussels, parboiled oysters, and white button mushrooms; to these add half a pint of Matelote Normande sauce (see p. 9), allow the whole to boil up a minute or two on the stove, and use the ragofit to garnish soles or other fish for which it is prepared. Bourguignote Ragout Peel and blanch about a dozen small button onions, put them into a stew-pan with a lump of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and a pat of butter; moisten with a small half pint of good stock, and set the onions to stew gently on a moderate fire; when nearly done, boil them down to a glaze and add them to an equal quantity of white button mushrooms and very small quenelles; to these put half a pint of Bourguignote sauce (see p. 8); allow the ragofit to boil up on the fire for a minute or two, and use it to garnish the entree it may be intended for. Crayfish Ragofit Take out and trim the tails of one dozen crayfish; with the bodies and shells make some crayfish butter (see p. 43), to be used in colouring some quenelles of whitings, afterwards moulded with teaspoons, poached, and placed with the crayfish; to these add three-quarters of a pint of Allemande or Supreme sauce, with which mix in a little of the butter made with the shells of the crayfish, and serve the ragout with the dish it is meant for. Rouennaise Ragofit Prepare one dozen of the following shell-fish—oysters, mussels, and shrimps; to these add a dozen small button mushrooms and quenelles of lobster, and moisten the ragout with a sauce made in the following manner:—Reduce one gill of the liquor of the mussels, oysters, and mushrooms with one glass of French white wine, and the addition of one gill of Veloute sauce'; finish by mixing in one yolk of egg, a pat of butter, and a dessertspoonful of cream ; stir the sauce on the fire tills it boils, and then pass it through a tammy on to the ragofit. Before sending to table, add a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. About four to six smelts, trussed in the same manner as whitings for frying, and boiled in a little salt and water, and afterwards skinned and glazed, should be prepared to garnish round the fish with which the Rouennaise ragofit is served.