DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 13I the skin towards you, and keep moving the knife to and fro, at the same time pressing the blade firmly on the skin. Having thus removed the skin, cut each fillet into two or more smaller fillets, trim them neatly by paring off the rough edges; place them in a basin with a sliced shalot, some sprigs of parsley, a little oil, and lemon juice, and season with pepper and salt. About ten minutes before dinner, drain the fillets on a napkin, and afterwards dip each fillet separately in some light batter, and fry them to a light golden colour in some fat heated for the purpose ; when done, drain them on kitchen paper to absorb the grease; dish the fillets in the form of a wreath, lying shoulder to shoulder, pour in the centre some white Ravigote sauce (see p. 6), and send to table. Fillets of Haddock a la Marechale Prepare these in the same manner as fillets of turbot a la Marechale (see p. 114). Fillets of Haddock a l’ltalienne Fillet a medium-sized haddock, remove the skin, cut and trim them into smaller fillets; place these neatly in a saute-pan with one ounce of clarified butter; season with pepper and salt, squeeze a little lemon juice over them, sprinkle one teaspoonful of chopped parsley; over all place a round of buttered paper, and put them in the oven or on a moderate fire to simmer for about ten minutes; then drain the fillets on clean paper, and afterwards dish them up in the form of a wreath, one fillet resting on the other, and pour half a pint of Italian sauce (mixed with a pat of butter, a teaspoonful of anchovy and lemon juice) over them, and send to table. By varying the sauce, fillets of haddock prepared in the above manner are named according to the sauce employed ; as, for instance, k la Ravigote, h la Maitre d’Hotel, it la Hollandaise, etc. Cod’s Sounds and Egg Sauce Preparatory to boiling cod’s sounds, it is absolutely necessary that they should be soaked in milk and water for at least six hours, and then washed and put to boil in a stew-pan containing fresh milk and water; then continue gently boiling till they are done—about an hour will suffice for this. When done, drain them on a napkin, cut them into pieces about an inch and a half square, and put them into a stew-pan with a sufficient quantity of Egg sauce (see p. 20); toss the whole together over the fire, pile them up on a dish in a pyramidal form, garnish them round with neatly cut boiled parsnips, and send to table. Cod’s Sounds a la Ravigote Prepare and cut the sounds into pieces as directed in the pre- ceding recipe; toss them in some Ravigote sauce (see p. 19), dish them up, garnish round with a border of potato croquettes, and send to table.