SWEETBREADS 267 to half-glaze ; use the remainder to work into some brown sauce for the entree ; put the liver in the oven to be glazed with its own liquor, and when done, dish up with groups of small carrots, turnips, and glazed onions round, pour the sauce under, and serve. Fried Calf’s Liver with Fine Herbs Sauce Wash, dry, and cut about three-quarters of a pound of liver up into neat slices a quarter of an inch thick, season with pepper and salt, and fry brown in a stew-pan with a little clarified butter; when this is done, pour off all the fat, add some Fine Herbs sauce, simmer the whole together on the fire for about three minutes, and serve. Calf’s Brains with Matelote Sauce Steep two sets of brains in water for several hours—care being taken to change the water frequently—and remove the loose skin that covers them. Place in a stew-pan containing some boiling water, and season with a tablespoonful of vinegar, some thinly-sliced carrot and onion, thyme and bay leaf, pepper and salt, and let them boil gently for about twenty minutes. The brains must then be drained upon a cloth. Place four croutons, cut in the shape of large cocks’-combs, on the bottom of an entree dish; place a lobe of brains in each of these; pour a Matelote ragout (see p. 44) over the entree, and serve. Calf’s Brains with Black Butter Sauce Prepare and dish up the brains according to the previous recipe; pour some Black Butter sauce (see p. 22) over them, place fried parsley in the centre, and serve. Calf’s Brains Fried in Batter a la Proven^ale These must be washed and soaked, and then gently boiled in water, with vinegar, etc. When drained, cut into oval slices, and steep in a basin with a little oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. When about to send to table, fry in batter in the usual way (see p. 56), and dish up with some Provencale sauce (see p. 8) under them, and serve. Note.—They may also be served with Tomato, Italian, Piquante, or Poivrade sauce. Scalloped Calf’s Brains When the brains have been washed and soaked, cut them into rather small pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with a few chopped mushrooms and truffles, season with a little cayenne and grated nutmeg, pour in some Allemande sauce and juice of half a lemon ; toss the whole gently together over the fire, and with this preparation fill as many silver scallop-shells as are required. Cover these over with a coating of fried or browned bread-crumbs, place for two minutes in a hot oven to gratinate, dish up on a napkin, and serve.