THE MODERN COOK 434 in the centre of each to form the pupils, and use a forcing-bag filled with red-currant jelly to mark out some stripes lengthwise between the rows of almonds placed on the back. Apples a la Portuguaise (another way) Peel and core six or eight golden pippins or small russets, and then simmer them in a pint of syrup until they are nearly done ; they must then be drained on a sieve. Next spread the bottom and sides of a baked pie-case, raised in a mould about two inches high (short crust should be used for this purpose), with apple marmalade mixed with one-third part of orange jam, and arrange the apples in close circular order in this: each apple must be filled with orange jam, and the entire surface then masked over with a rather thick coating of transparent red-currant or apple jelly. Some tasteful design should be formed on the layer of jelly in the form of a wreath or scroll; this should be done either with almond paste or with puff paste which has been previously stamped out with appropriate cutters, sugared over, and baked without browning. Baked Bananas Select large and not overripe bananas for this dish. Strip off about a third of the skin lengthways, and loosen the remainder of the skin from the fruit by means of a teaspoon. Lay the bananas in a buttered saute-pan or baking-dish, place a few very small bits of butter on the top of each, and sprinkle freely with castor sugar; pour over each about half a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a hot oven. Dish up neatly, and serve hot. Baked Bananas with Rice Cook four ounces of rice, previously blanched in one pint of milk, sweeten with sugar, and add a little piece of butter. Put six large bananas in a baking-pan with enough water to just cover them, and bake in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Put the cooked rice in a hot deep dish, oval or round, remove the skins from the baked bananas, and arrange them neatly on the top of the rice. Serve hot with cream. Flan of Peaches For this purpose, a crust or case should be prepared in the following manner:—First make half a pound of short crust (see p. 391); then butter the inside of a fluted circular or oval mould ; line this with the paste, cut the edges level, and then raise them all round, and pinch the part that rises above the mould with a pair of pastry pincers. Next fill the case with clean rice and bake it until it is about three parts done; the rice must then be removed, and the case brushed out clean with a paste-brush, after which it must be nearly filled with halves of peaches, previously skinned and simmered in some thin syrup for about five minutes; put the flan again in the oven for about a quarter of an hour, and