GLOSSARY A LA. A la mode de, after the style or fashion of; a la Francaise, French style ; a la Reine, Queen style ; a l’Imperatrice, Empress style ; a la Russe, Russian style. Ail (une gousse d’ail). Garlic ; a clove of garlic. Allemande. Reduced or concentrated white Veloute sauce, enriched with cream and yolks of eggs, and seasoned with nutmeg and lemon juice. Angelica is a plant, the tender tubular branches of which, after being preserved in syrup, are used for the purpose of decorating sweet dishes, etc. Anglaise (X l’). English style. Affixed to a dish, usually implies that it con- sists of something plain roasted or plain boiled, or that the dish is prepared in a style typical of this country; it does not necessarily follow that it must be plain. Aspic. Savoury jelly. A l’aspic, set in aspic, or garnished with aspic. Au Maigre. A French expression used for dishes prepared without meat. Lenten dishes. Au Naturel. Food cooked plainly and simply. Aubergine. An annual plant, a native of the West Indies; also called egg- plant. Baba, a kind of light yeast cake with currants. Bain-Marie. The culinary water-bath, with a distinct set of small sauce-pans, where sauces, etc., are kept so that they are nearly at the boiling-point without burning or reducing. Ballotine. Small balls or rolls of meat or fowl. Bechamel is the foundation white sauce. This sauce takes its name from a celebrated cook. Beurre Noisette. Nut-brown butter, viz. butter melted over the fire until it begins to brown. Bisque. A thick soup generally made with shellfish. Blanch. To parboil: to scald vegetables, etc., in order to remove their hulls or skins, such as almonds, etc. Blonde de Veau. A very rich veal broth, used for flavouring and enriching white soups and sauces. Bon-Bons. Sugar confectionery ; sweetmeats, etc. Bouchees. Small puff-paste patties (petits pates), small enough to be a traditional mouthful only. Boudin. A delicate kind of entree prepared with quenelle force-meat or mince. ^13 2 L