THE MODERN COOK 414 water, and the chopped candied peel; and, after having mixed in these, leave to stand for five or six hours; then add the carbonate of soda, dissolved in a tablespoonful of water, and the flour. This paste must now be gently stirred over the fire for three or four minutes longer, and then prepared as follows :— Cut the paste into four equal parts. Flour the slab, roll out each of the four pieces to about a quarter of an inch thick; these squares must now be placed on baking-sheets, previously buttered and floured; and, after being deeply marked out or cut into small oblong squares, must be rubbed over with a paste-brush dipped in water to remove the flour from the surface. Next bake the Leckerlets in a moderate oven until a light brown, and when about three parts done, cut the paste through into shape, brush over with some thin white icing, and replace in the oven to finish cooking. Break up the cakes as marked out, and put when cold away in a tin box in a dry place. These cakes are well adapted for dessert or luncheon. Sicilian Biscuits Ingredients : 3 eggs, 8 oz. castor sugar, 8 oz. flour, 1 stick vanilla pounded, or a few drops vanilla essence. Whisk the eggs, sugar, and vanilla together in a copper egg-bowl over a very slow fire until the batter begins to feel warm; remove from off the fire, and whisk briskly until the batter becomes cold; the flour must now be lightly added, and when thoroughly mixed, the mixture must be forced out upon prepared baking-sheets in fingers, ovals, or rounds, dredged with sugar similarly to finger or Naples biscuits, and baked in a slow oven. Russian Biscuits Ingredients : 6 oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, 6 oz. flour, 2 oz. almonds pounded and dried over the fire, J oz. aniseed. Let the yokes of the eggs and the sugar be whisked together in an egg-bowl over a slow fire; fold in the whites whisked stiffly, also the flour, almonds, and aniseed. The mixture may then either be baked in long tin moulds or, failing these, in stout paper cases. When the biscuits are cold, cut them into rather thin slices, replace again on baking-sheets, and bake a light brown on both sides. Albert Biscuits Ingredients : 6 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. finely chopped almonds, 6 oz. flour, 6 eggs, 2 oz. candied orange-peel shred fine, 1 tea- spoonful cinnamon powder, half that quantity ground cloves, and a little grated lemon rind. Work the sugar and the almonds with the yolks and two whites of eggs for twenty minutes, then incorporate the remaining whites firmly whisked together with the flour, candied peel, and spices. Pour the batter into a convenient-sized paper case, and bake in a