SAUCES IN GENERAL Cardinal Sauce Put half a pint of reduced Veloute sauce into a stew-pan, add half a gill of essence of mushrooms, one ounce of lobster butter, a little essence of anchovies, lemon juice, and cayenne ; work these well together, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. Observe : that for whatever kind of meat or fish this sauce may be intended, the essence or liquor of the meat or fish should be first reduced to glaze, and then incorporated into the sauce, in order to give it a characteristic flavour. Regency Sauce Cut an eel of a pound weight into thin slices, and place them in a stew-pan with six cloves, a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, a bay- leaf, sweet basil, a carrot, three or four mushrooms, an onion, and a little salt; moisten with three-quarters of a pint of good claret, and put the whole to boil gently on the fire for half an hour, after which pass the essence thus obtained through the tammy with pressure, so as to extract every particle. Then mix the produce with a gill of reduced Espagnole sauce, and having boiled, skimmed, and reduced it, finish by working into it a dessertspoonful of essence of truffles, one ounce of anchovy butter, nutmeg, lemon juice, and a small pinch of sugar. This sauce is peculiarly well adapted for every sort of coloured fish, either fresh-water or salt. White Oyster Sauce Put twelve oysters into a stew-pan and set them to boil for five minutes on the fire; drain them on a sieve (saving their liquor in a basin), wash and beard them, taking care to cut off the tendons, as that part when eaten is troublesome to the teeth, and put them into a bain-marie—reserving only the fat part; then put one ounce of butter (more or less according to the quantity of sauce) into a stew- pan with one ounce of flour, cayenne pepper, and salt; knead these well together, and moisten with a pint of oyster liquor, a tablespoonful of cream, and a teaspoonful of glaze ; stir the sauce on the fire, keeping it boiling for ten minutes; then pass it through a tammy upon the oysters. Just before sending to table add a little lemon juice. Brown Oyster Sauce Prepare this precisely as the last sauce, but, instead of the cream, use an equal quantity of brown gravy. Brown oyster sauce is a very desirable accessory to beefsteaks, beef pudding, beefsteak pie, broiled slices of cod-fish, and various other plain dressed dishes. Mussel Sauce Wash, beard, and blanch or parboil a pint of mussels; take all the white fat mussels out of the shells and place them in a bain-marie, reserving their liquor in a basin. Then knead two ounces of butter, with ounce of flour, some nutmeg, pepper, and salt; add a pint of