WINE CUPS, ETC. 511 Method : Place these ingredients in a covered jug and set on ice for an hour and a quarter, then decanter the cup free from the herbs, etc. ., _ Ale Cup Toast a slice of bread and put it into a bowl with the thinly pared rind and strained juice of a lemon, one ounce of castor sugar, a good pinch of grated nutmeg, a sprig of balm, two wine-glassfuls of sherry, one of brandy, and three pints of ale. Let it stand for five minutes, then remove the balm, and serve. Beer Cup One quart of stout or porter, half an ounce of moist sugar, a small slice of bread toasted brown, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg and ginger. Mix these ingredients in a jug, and allow the cup to steep for half an hour previous to serving. Note.—Ale cup is made in a similar manner. These cups are more particularly adapted for being handed round with cheese. Lager Beer Cup Rub two ounces of loaf-sugar on to the rind of a large lemon, pound it, place it in a bowl; add the thinly pared rind of another lemon and the strained juice of both, one and a half gills of sherry, a sprig of mint, half a pint of iced water, and two bottles of iced lager beer, and serve. Cider Cup One quart of cider, two bottles of soda-water, a small glass of Cognac, a few leaves of balm, ditto of borage, a sliced orange, one ounce of crushed sugar-candy. Method: Place the ingredients in a covered jug and set on ice for an hour and a quarter, then decanter the cup free from herbs, etc. Note.—Any other aerated water may be substituted for soda, or the cup may be prepared without the addition of any water. Perry Cup This is prepared in the same manner as cider cup, substituting, of course, perry for cider. Tennis Cup Rub six ounces of loaf-sugar on to the rind of three lemons, pound it, and place it in a jug with the strained juice, two sprigs of borage and verbena, three wine-glassfuls of brandy, and two of ginger syrup. Let it stand in ice for an hour, and before serving add four bottles of iced seltzer or soda-water. Wine Cup Put a bottle of iced claret into a jug, add a gill of brandy, a wine- glassful of maraschino, a thinly sliced orange, the juice of a lemon, one ounce of loaf-sugar previously rubbed on the rind of the lemon and then pounded, two slices of cucumber, four sprigs of mint; then add a bottle of iced champagne and two of iced soda-water, and serve.