!56 THE MODERN COOK the fire for about twenty minutes. When done, drain them, stick some of the daws of the lobsters in one end of the quenelles, dish up in dose circular order, pour some Fine Herbs sauce (see p. 5) over, fill the centre with picked prawns’ tails (previously warmed in a little glaze and lobster coral), and serve. Boudins of Whiting a la Supreme Pound the fillets of two skinned whitings, and rub them through a fine wire-sieve; put the produce in a mortar with one and a half ounces of fresh butter and an equal proportion of bread panada (see p. 58); pound these until well mixed, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, adding one or more yolks of eggs, and continue pounding for five minutes, then add a whole egg, and after it is thoroughly mixed in by pounding, put the force-meat into a basin. Previous to using the force-meat, add a tablespoonful of Allemande or Bechamel sauce; next shake some flour over a slab, divide the force-meat with a tablespoon into ten or twelve equal parts, roll these with the hand dipped in flour into small oval shapes, and place them immediately in a saute-pan spread with butter; mask over with a soft paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, and decorate them with black truffles. Poach the boudins in boiling water in the usual manner; when done, drain, and dish up in a close circle, so as to show the decorated part; fill the centre with a ragout consisting either of mussels, oysters, shrimps, crayfish, or mushrooms; pour round some Supreme sauce (see p. 10), finished with some reduced essence made from the bones of the fish, and serve. Quenelles of Whiting a la Princesse Mould one dozen quenelles in tablespoons, with some force-meat of whitings prepared as directed above, mixed with a tablespoonful of puree of mushrooms (see p. 30); place the quenelles in a saut^-pan spread with butter, poach them in the usual manner, and when done, drain, and dish up in close circular order; pour some Princesse sauce (see p. 11) over, fill the centre with a Ragout of Soft Roes of Mackerel (see p. 46), and serve. Boudins of Salmon a Htalienne Pound about half a pound of fresh salmon, and pass it through a fine wire-sieve; then put it again into a mortar with two ounces of fresh butter and an equal proportion of bread panada (see p. 58); pound these thoroughly for about five minutes, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, adding one or more yolks of eggs; mix these well together, then add one whole egg and a tablespoonful of reduced Allemande sauce, continue pounding for ten minutes longer, after which put the force-meat into a basin. Mould eight or ten quenelles, and place them in a deep saute-pan spread with butter; poach them in the usual way, and when done, drain, and dish them upright against a narrow croustade of fried bread fastened in the centre of the dish; place a large crayfish between each quenelle, pour some White Italian sauce (see p. 3) round the entrde, and serve.