CREAMS AND CHARLOTTES 459 then strain and let it get cold. Boil up half a pint of milk with a small piece of vanilla pod, stir in two ounces of fine semolina, and cook slowly for about twenty-five minutes; then add two ounces of castor sugar and a little cream. Remove the vanilla pod, next put the cooked semolina in a plated souffle dish, place it on the ice to get quite cold. Reduce half the pear syrup with two to three tablespoonfuls of apricot marmalade, flavour it with a small glass of maraschino, and let it get cold. Range the cooked cold pears neatly in the souffle dish on top of the semolina cream. Decorate with halves of glace cherries and slices of angelica. Sauce over with the prepared Apricot sauce, and send to table—to be served cold. CREAMS AND CHARLOTTES Banana Blanc = mange Boil up three-quarters of a pint of milk with two ounces of loaf- sugar in a stew-pan. Soak half an ounce of gelatine in a little water, dissolve, and strain into the milk. Mix half an ounce of cornflour with a gill of milk and stir over the fire till thick, then pour on the above and cook for a few minutes whilst stirring. Strain, and let cool, then stir in a gill of whipped cream, ten drops of vanilla essence, and four ripe bananas peeled and rubbed through a sieve. Turn into a jelly mould and let set. Unmould the shape on to a cold dish, and serve with preserved fruit. Almond Blanc=mang,e Blanch six ounces of sweet and two ounces of bitter almonds. Drain them on a sieve, remove the skins, and wash them in cold water, then pound them in a mortar with two ounces of sugar. Put the paste in a basin with four ounces of loaf-sugar and one and a half pints of water. Cover over the basin, and stand in a cool place, to extract the flavour of the almonds. Then strain off the liquid through a cloth. Add three-quarters of an ounce of leaf gelatine, dissolved in half a gill of water, to the milk of almonds, pour the blanc-mange into a mould set on ice, and when quite firm, turn out carefully, after having first dipped the mould in warm water. Maraschino Bavarian Cream Whip half a pint of double cream. Add it to a gill of good maraschino, the juice of a lemon, four ounces of castor sugar, and half an ounce of sheet gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water. Mix these well together, and pour into a mould, previously very slightly oiled inside with oil of sweet almonds. Set the cream on ice, and when it has become firm, turn out on a dish, without dipping first in warm water. This kind of cream may be flavoured with all kinds of liqueurs, also with the essences of orange, lemon, orange- flowers, vanilla, roses, and bitter almonds.