SIDE-DISHES 359 with the above, then dish up neatly piled up high, and garnish with two to three lettuce hearts cut into quarters. Range these in the form of a border round the base of the salad bowl, and sprinkle over a little finely chopped parsley, tarragon, and chives. Dandelion Salad Take the required quantity of young yellow leaves of dandelion, rinse them in cold water and drain carefully in a cloth, then season with salt, oil, and vinegar. Pile up high in a salad bowl, and garnish with a border composed of seasoned water-cress and small cress. Banana and Walnut Salad Peel and cut into slices four to six ripe but firm bananas, place them in a basin, and mix carefully with half a pint of peeled walnut kernels divided into small pieces. Season with salt and pepper to taste, and besprinkle with the juice of half a lemon. Range this neatly in a salad bowl, surmounted with a neat border of water-cress, previously washed, picked, and drained ; in the centre of the salad pile one to two large tablespoonfuls of Mayonnaise dressing, and send to table. SIDE-DISHES HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES Caviare as Hors-d’oeuvre This is, next to the oyster, the most favourite hors-d’oeuvre. There are various kinds, the genuine Russian, unsalted, being the best. Astrachan, Elbe, and hygienic caviare are also excellent, though less expensive than the former. It is usual to serve caviare in the original pot, placed on a folded napkin on a dish surrounded with shaved ice. In any case caviare must be kept on the ice till required. Quarters or slices of lemon or cayenne pepper must be handed round when serving. Duchesses with Caviare Prepare an unsweetened choux-paste, put it in a forcing-bag with a plain pipe, and force out little heaps of paste on to a greased baking-sheet. Bake in a quick oven to a light-brown colour. Make an incision from the bottom of each little “ choux,” and scoop out some of the soft part. When quite cold, fill the little choux with Astrachan or hygienic caviare previously “ iced.” Brush over with aspic mixed with meat glaze; besprinkle with chopped pistachios and dish up. Mayonnaise of Caviare Put into a clean mortar about half a pound of fresh Astrachan caviare, and pound, adding at the same time four ounces of fresh bread-crumbs previously soaked in a little milk or cream. When quite fine, put it in a basin, place on ice and work the mixture with a