355 VEGETABLES AND SALADS Potatoes a la Creole Wash, scrape, and blanch in salted water, containing a little lemon juice, two dozen new kidney potatoes. Drain, and cut them into fairly thick slices. Cook these for about fifteen minutes in a little rich veal stock ; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Butter a fire-proof vegetable dish, put in the potatoes in layers, with Bechamel sauce, enriched with cream, between each. Cover the top layer with sauce, besprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and oiled butter and a few fresh bread-crumbs, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes. New Potatoes a la Creme Cut some freshly boiled new potatoes in slices, put them into a stew-pan with a gill of cream, one ounce of fresh butter, a very little nutmeg, pepper and salt, and the juice of half a lemon; boil up together on the fire, toss well, and dish up with croutons. Potatoes a la Creme au Gratin Cut some cold, boiled potatoes in slices about an inch thick ; prepare the same kind of mixture as directed for Cauliflower au gratin (see p. 343); put some neatly cut pointed croutons of fried bread round the bottom of the dish, in the form of a coronet; place a circular row of the slices of potatoes within this border of croutons ; spread a layer of the mixture over them ; then repeat the row of potatoes, and the mixture, until the dish is complete. Smooth the top over with some of the sauce, sprinkle some browned bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese over; put the potatoes in the oven for about twenty minutes, to warm through, and serve. Sea=kale with Butter Sauce Prepare the sea-kale and tie up in small bundles. Cook it in boiling water with a little salt for about twenty minutes, until tender: drain and dish up on a piece of toast, and send some Butter sauce (see p. 17) separately to table. Note.—Sea-kale may also be served with Espagnole or Bechamel sauce, in which case it must be placed in the dish, and the Bechamel or Espagnole sauce poured over it; if the latter, a pat of butter and a little lemon juice should be first incorporated with it. Brussels Sprouts Boil one and a half pounds of sprouts, and put them into a stew- pan with one ounce of fresh butter, some mignonette pepper, nutmeg, salt, and lemon juice, and a gill of Veloute sauce; toss the whole well together over the fire until the butter is well mixed; then dish up with a border of fleurons, and serve.