THE MODERN COOK 34° boiled for three minutes in water with a little salt, and afterwards tossed in a stew-pan with a little liquid glaze, lemon juice, pepper and salt); pour some bright Espagnole sauce over the celery, and serve. Celery a la Villeroi Braise three or four heads of celery as before, and when done, drain, to absorb all the moisture; split each head up into pieces of four-inch lengths, mask them with some reduced Allemande sauce (see p. 3), and place upon a dish to become cold. They must then be rolled in bread-crumbs, and afterwards dipped in beaten egg and bread-crumbed over again. Just before sending to table, place the pieces of celery carefully in a frying-basket, and fry in hot fat a golden colour; drain, and dish up on a folded napkin with some fried parsley, and serve. Curried Celery Fritters For this dish the following ingredients are required: 2 sticks of white celery, £ pint thick Bechamel or other good white sauce, 1 dessertspoonful mulligatawny or curry paste, frying batter, fine salt, 1 teaspoonful curry powder, stock, frying fat. Wash and clean the celery, cut it into two-inch pieces, and cook till tender in stock or salted water. Drain the pieces on a sieve. When cold, toss them in the white sauce; previously mixed with the curry paste. The pieces must be thoroughly coated with sauce. Dip each piece of celery into frying batter, drop into hot fat, and fry to a golden colour. Drain on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with fine salt mixed with a little curry powder (just enough to colour it), dish up on a folded napkin, and send to table immediately. Note.—Asparagus, cucumber, or vegetable marrow may be cooked in the same manner. Salsify a la Creme Scrape off the outside part of a bundle of salsify, wash well, and put into a pan containing cold water with two teaspoonfuls of vinegar or lemon juice to keep them a good colour, then boil them in hot water with a little butter, mignonette pepper, salt, lemon juice, or vinegar. When done, drain, and cut up into inch lengths, and put them into a stew-pan with a gill of cream Bechamel sauce, a pat of butter, a little mignonette pepper, and lemon juice; toss over the fire, and dish up in the form of a dome; place some croutons of fried bread or fleurons round the dish, and serve. Scalloped Salsify Scrape a bundle of salsify, cut them into pieces about an inch and a half long, steep them in vinegar and water as they are being done. Boil them in salted water until tender, and drain them on a sieve. Melt an ounce of butter and fry them over a quick fire, season with grated nutmeg and Krona pepper; add half a gill of cream and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, also one teaspoonful of Anchovy sauce, and mix well. Fill up some buttered scallop-