272 THE MODERN COOK should be carefully scraped with the back part of the blade of a knife to remove the skin, leaving the white cartilaginous part entire; this last must then be slit in narrow bands, without cutting through the ends, so that when the ears are turned down, these bands by curling over appear like a row of loops; place the ears as they are trimmed in a deep stew-pan containing some of their own liquor, cover with a buttered paper and the lid, and set aside till dinner-time. While the ears are braising, prepare enough veal force-meat to fill a plain low cylinder border mould (previously buttered); poach this in the usual way, and when about to send to table, turn it out upon a dish, place the lamb’s ears all round the top of it, and in each of these put a round ball of black truffle; fill the centre with a rich Financibre ragout (see p. 44), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. Note.—This entree may also be served with a ragout a la Tortue (see p. 44). Lamb’s Ears a la Dauphine Scald, singe, braise, and trim six lamb’s ears as in the previous recipe, but they must not be slit. Fill them with force-meat made with fowl or veal, in which has been mixed a tablespoonful of white sauce and some chopped mushrooms ; mask the ears over with a coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and when this has become firmly set, roll them in bread-crumbs, and dip each separately in beaten egg seasoned with a little salt, then bread-crumb over again, place them upon a dish, and set aside in the larder. When about to send to table, fry the ears in plenty of hot fat to a golden brown, dish up in a circular row or pyramidally, pour some Supreme or Bechamel sauce, containing a few mushrooms cut into neat pieces, round and under them, and serve. Lamb’s Ears a la Venitienne Prepare these exactly in the same manner as for a la Financiere (see p. 271), dish up in a circle, and fill the centre with small round balls or croquettes of rice prepared as follows:—Boil two and a half ounces of rice in white stock till quite soft, then season with a pat of butter, an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a little nutmeg, cayenne pepper, and salt; mix the whole well together, and form into small round balls the size of marbles; roll these in flour, and fry in clarified butter. Pour some Venetian sauce over the ears, and serve. Lamb’s Ears Fried in Batter See Calfs Brains so prepared (p. 267). Lamb’s Feet a la Poulette Remove the shank-bones from half-a-dozen lamb’s feet, without tearing or cutting through the part that covers the bone; scald them for about five minutes in boiling water, and then plunge in cold water; wipe and singe them, rub over with lemon juice, and braise them in some white stock for about an hour; then drain well, trim