CAKES IN GENERAL 4°5 These gaufres may also be cut into pieces two inches square, and coiled round a small roller in the form of barrels; the ends of these, after being first covered with whipped white of egg mixed with a little sugar, should then be dipped in some finely chopped pistachios, and placed on a baking-sheet to dry. When served cold, they may be filled with whipped cream seasoned with vanilla, orange flowers, or maraschino, and some strawberries placed on the top of this; they are sometimes also garnished with vanilla-cream ice. Note.—This kind of gaufres may be varied in appearance by sprinkling over some currants or finely chopped pistachios before they are baked in the oven. Nougats Ingredients: 12 oz. sweet almonds, lb. sifted sugar. Blanch the almonds, remove the skins, and after they have been washed and dried, split each almond into halves; then put them on a baking-sheet in a slow oven to brown very lightly. Meanwhile put the sugar in a boiling-pan with a very little water, and stir over a slow fire to melt it: as soon as it is entirely dissolved, and begins to form small purling bubbles on the surface, the almonds (which by this time should be ready and quite hot) must be added, and very gently mixed with the sugar, care being taken not to break or bruise them. The mould intended to be used must then be first carefully oiled inside with a paste-brush, and set to drain on a plate. Some of the nougat should now be dropped on a. slightly, oiled slab, and rolled out with an oiled rolling-pin to the thickness of about the eighth of an inch; as the pieces are thus rolled, they must be immediately placed in the mould and pressed into its form with the fingers as quickly as possible before the nougat has time to cool and harden. When the nougat has become set, turn it out of the mould, fill with some suitable garnish if necessary, and serve. The above proportions, as well as the directions for splitting the almonds, refer only to large nougats; when it is intended to make a smaller one, the almonds should be shred. In all cases, the pro- portion of almonds and sugar should be as two of the latter to one of the former. If liked, as soon as the nougat is turned out of the mould, some chopped pistachio kernels and rough granite sugar1 may be sprinkled over the surface. Parisian Nougats Ingredients : 4 oz. pistachio kernels, 8 oz. sugar, and a few drops vanilla essence. Blanch the pistachios, peel and wipe dry, then split each kernel into halves and put them to dry on a baking-sheet. Pound the 1 Granite sugar is generally prepared by breaking up loaf sugar into very small pieces with the end of a rolling-pin ; after sifting away all the fine sugar, the pieces are then passed through a colander with large holes. All that passes through this may be used for the above purpose; but when the granite is required finer, it must be riddled through a wire-sieve.