5iS THE MODERN COOIC PAte de Foie-Gras. A well-known delicacy prepared from the livers of fat geese. Alsace is the most celebrated country where the so-called lerrines de foie-gras are made. Paupiettes. Slices of meat or fish rolled with force-meat. Pimiento. Red Spanish pepper-pod. Piping. A decoration made of icing, used for ornamenting cakes, pastry-stands, small pastry, etc. It is thus effected :—Take a short funnel or conically shaped instrument of tin, and insert the same within a larger-sized and similarly shaped paper funnel or cornet, the pointed end of which must be cut off so as to allow the tin instrument to protrude : place the icing or glazing (a mixture of finely pounded sugar and white of egg worked into a smooth and firm paste) in the cornet or forcer, the upper part of which must be completely closed ; the glazing is then forced out at the point by pressure of the thumb on the upper part of the cornet. Pluche or Plushe, the leaves of parsley, chervil, tarragon, lettuce, or sorrel snipped or cut small ; these are used mixed or separately, according to directions. Generally used for clear soups. Pot-au-FEU is an economical and wholesome beef broth. It is the standard dish of all classes in France, and the origin of beef broth. Poussin. Chic-chicken, or a baby chicken. Praline. Flavoured with burnt almonds. Profitrolles. A light kind of pastry, creamed inside. Puree. A kind of pulpy maceration of roasted meats, and of vegetables or fruits, finished by being passed through a tammy or sieve. Name given to thick soups. Quenelle. A delicate sort of force-meat, used in the preparation of entrees, and as garnishing for soups. RagoOt. A rich compound, consisting of quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, fat livers, etc., mixed in a rich sauce, and used for garnishing highly finished removes and entrees. Releves or Removes. These usually consist of roast joints, turkeys, capons, highly or plain dressed fillets, or rolls, etc., of beef, calves’ heads, etc., served at dinner after the entree course. Remouillage. Second stock. Remoulade. A cold sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs and mustard, used as salad dressing, etc. Roux. A mixture of fresh butter or other fat and flour, which, after being baked, is used for thickening sauces. There are three kinds—white, fawn, and brown. Saccharometer. An instrument to test degrees of sugar. Salmi. A highly finished ragout, made with par-roasted game or wild-fowl, cut up and prepared in either a rich gravy or sauce. Sai.picon. A mince of poultry or game, with ham, tongue, and mushrooms ; used for croquettes, bouchees, rissoles, etc. Saute. Cutlets, scallops of game, poultry, or fish, etc., lightly fried in butter. Soci.e. Base pedestal made of rice, bread, fat, sugar, etc., and used in cookery and confectionery. Sorbet. An iced Turkish drink ; also the name of a partly set water-ice, with fruit or liqueur flavour ; usually served in goblets.