VEGETABLE PUREE SOUPS 77 a pinch of castor sugar,—placing the pieces of artichokes closely beside each other,—and then set them on a slow fire to stew very gently that they may acquire a light-brown colour. Then proceed in every respect to finish this soup in the same manner as directed for Palestine soup. Puree of Endive This soup should be made only when endives are plentiful and of good quality, as in the autumn season when they are full and white. Having trimmed away all the green and outer leaves of eight or ten endives, which should be thoroughly washed and examined in order to pick out any insects, blanch them in boiling water and a little salt for ten minutes; then take them out and throw them into cold water; drain them in a colander, and with both hands press all the water from them. Having prepared the endives, cut off the roots and put them into a stew-pan with one and a half ounces of fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and a little sugar. With a wooden spoon stir the endives over a slow fire for about ten minutes ; then add a pint of good white consomme of fowl; allow this to continue gently simmering on a very slow fire, or in the oven, for an hour, and then pass the endives through a tammy or fine sieve as usual. To the puree thus obtained add one pint of rich consomme of fowl; clarify it according to custom, and just before sending the soup to table, mix with it two tablespoonfuls of cream and a pat of fresh butter, and serve. This soup is recommended for its lightness and cooling effect. Brown Puree of Chestnuts Take two pints of chestnuts (Spanish or Lyons chestnuts are the best), cut off the points or slit them across to prevent them from bursting and flying about; put them in a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, and fry them on a moderate fire until they shed their husks readily; then peel them clean, and put them into a stew-pan with a quart of veal gravy (see p. 52), and set them by the side of the stove to boil gently until they become quite soft to the touch ; drain them from the liquor, and, after having first pounded, and afterwards rubbed them through the tammy or a fine sieve (pouring in the liquor reserved for the purpose to enable the puree to pass quicker), add another pint of veal gravy to clarify the puree—this, after being set to boil on the stove, must be then removed to the side, there to continue gently boiling that it may throw up the butter to the surface, which must be removed with a spoon as it rises, finish by mixing in with the puree a small pat of butter, a pinch of sugar, and a small piece of glaze, and serve up. White Puree of Chestnuts Prepare two pints of chestnuts as for the preceding soup, except that white consommd of fowls or rabbits must be used to boil them in, as well as to finish the puree with. When the pur^e has been clarified as directed above, just before serving it up add two table- spoonfuls of cream, a pat of fresh butter, and a pinch of sugar.