289 CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE twice the thickness of a crown-piece ; upon these place the chickens, and garnish with carrot, onion, bouquet garni, a clove of garlic, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; cover with a buttered paper and the lid, and then set them upon a moderate fire (with some live embers of charcoal upon the lid) to simmer for about forty minutes, taking care to turn the chickens occasionally in order that they may be equally coloured a light brown all over. This being done, the butter should be drained off from the chickens and the vegetables removed ; then add a glass of sherry or Madeira, two tablespoonfuls of Tomato sauce (see p. 7) and the same quantity of brown sauce, a small piece of glaze, lemon juice, and a little cayenne pepper. Let the whole simmer together on the fire for five minutes, then draw the strings from the chickens and dish them up; garnish with the pieces of ham placed alternately with a crofiton of the same shape; round these place four groups of Spanish peas (garbangas) boiled and peeled; pour the sauce over the chickens, and serve. In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing chickens for small Removes, Side Dishes, or Entries, they may also be served with rice, macaroni, nouilles, Oyster sauce, k l’Anglaise, k l’lvoire, k l’Estragon, etc., and indeed in every variety of form described for dressing capons. Fried Marinade of Chicken Roast a medium-sized chicken or fowl; when done, cut into neatly trimmed joints, and put these to steep for several hours in the following preparation:—Cut into thin slices a large onion, carrot, stick of celery, some parsley, and a clove of garlic, and put them into a saute-pan with two ounces of butter, a bay leaf, sprig of thyme, blade of mace, and four cloves; fry all these a light-brown colour, moisten with a glass of sherry and a tablespoonful of French vinegar, add a very little salt and a pinch of mignonette pepper, and allow the whole to simmer gently until the vegetables are thoroughly done ; the marinade must then be strained through a tammy with considerable pressure, in order to extract the flavour of all the ingredients. When about to send to table, drain the pieces of chicken, and afterwards dip them into some light batter, fry them in hot fat a golden colour, dish up on a napkin or fancy paper with fried parsley, and serve with some Italian, Piquante, Poivrade, Provengale, or Tomato sauce ; or some essence of anchovies (see p. 42), of truffles (see p. 40), of shalots (see p. 40), or of fine herbs (see p. 40) in a sauce-boat separately. Planked Chicken Split a plump spring chicken, flatten it a little, and dip in oil. Stew six mushrooms in a little stock. Heat the plank, put the chicken on it, boned side down, season with salt and pepper, and broil on the board under the gas or in a sharp oven for about forty minutes. Garnish with rice cooked in stock, the mushrooms, and guava jelly; at each side of the dish place two baked bananas, and serve. Note.—The following entrees are rather expensive, but with good u