392 THE MODERN COOK Rough Puff Paste Ingredients : i lb. flour, 12 oz. butter, a little salt, the yolk of an egg, and about | pt. water. Spread the flour out in the usual manner and make a well in the centre, place the egg, salt, half the butter, and two-thirds of the water at first, adding as much of the remainder as may be necessary afterwards; work these together into a smooth paste, then spread this out with the hand, and after the remaining half of the butter has been placed in the centre, the sides should be folded over so as to entirely enclose the butter. When the paste has stood five minutes, sprinkle some flour over the slab and on the paste, then roll out to a long strip; this must be then folded into three, and after turning the paste round so as to bring the sides to face you, roll out again in a similar manner; after an interval of about ten minutes, repeat the rolling1 twice more, when the paste will be ready for use. Short Paste for Tarts Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, ^ lb. butter, x oz. castor sugar, a very little salt, 1 yolk of egg, and about i| gills water. Spread the flour out on the slab with a well in the centre, rub in the butter, then add the sugar, salt, water, and the yolk of egg. Work the whole together with the hands into a firm paste, and use it for covering fruit tarts and lining tartlets, etc. Nouille Paste Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, about 3 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful salt, and a little milk or water if necessary. Sift the flour on the slab, make a well in the centre, then put the salt in, with a little water to melt it, and add the yolks; work the whole well together, at first rubbing the ingredients between the fingers, and then finish working the paste by pushing it from you with the palms of the hands, using considerable pressure; sprinkle a few drops of water over it, then knead the paste into a ball, and keep on one side until wanted for use. This paste must be made very stiff. Pate d5Office Ingredients : J lb. flour, 6 oz. castor sugar, 2 eggs. Sift the flour on the slab, making a well in the centre, then add the sugar and the eggs, and work the whole into a stiff paste. If the paste should appear dry and difficult to knead, another yolk of egg may be added. This paste is mostly used for making pastry ornaments or for lining purposes. Almond Paste Take one pound of fine quality ground almonds (two ounces of which might be bitter almonds), two pounds of fine castor sugar, the grated rind of two oranges together with the juice of one. Mix 1 Each time the paste is rolled, as here described, it is termed by cooks, “ giving it a turn." This kind of paste requires only four turns.