VOL-AU-VENT, TOURTE, AND PATTY CASES 395 knife, held perpendicularly in the right hand, whilst the paste must be slightly pressed on the slab with the forepart of the fingers. Next add the trimmings of the puff paste to the remaining half of the short crust, knead both together, roll out to the size of a plate, and after having first wetted the foundation round the edge, place it over the tampoon, and press down all round with the thumb; then wet the edge of the tourte round again, and apply the band in the follow- ing manner:—Take hold of the band at both ends, and begin by fastening that held in the right hand round the edge of the tourte, and continue fixing the band all round as fast as it is dropped in its place with the left hand; press the first end down so as to thin it, wet this part with the brush, and after paring away a little of the other end, so as to thin that also, fasten both together by neatly joining. Press the band down all round with the thumb, and flute the edge by jagging it slightly with the back of a knife. The tourte must then be egged over with a paste-brush, carefully avoiding smearing the edges of the band. Place in a moderate oven, and bake a light brown; when done, make an incision with a small knife all round the outer edge of the crown inside the band, remove the crown or top, take out the tampoon, and the case will then be ready for garnishing. Puff=Paste Bouchee or Patty Cases Make half a pound of puff paste as described on p. 393, and give it seven turns, wetting the last turn before folding it; then ro-ll the paste out barely a quarter of an inch thick, take a fluted circular cutter about two inches in diameter, and stamp out a dozen or more patties; previous to stamping out each patty, the cutter should be dipped in hot water, as the heat causes it to slip easily through the paste, as if cut with a sharp knife. As soon as the patties are cut out, place in rows on a baking-sheet, about two inches apart from each other; egg them over with a soft brush dipped in beaten egg, being careful not to smear the edges, and stamp them in the centre, making a slight incision through their surface with a plain circular cutter about one inch and a half in diameter (this cutter must also be dipped in hot water each time it is used). The patties should then be put in a quick oven and baked a golden colour; when done, take off the tops, pick out the inner crumb carefully with the point of a small knife, and fill as required, replacing the tops before serving. Croustade Cases Roll out a quarter of a pound of timbale paste (see p. 391) to the thickness of a penny-piece, then take a circular cutter, about four inches in diameter, and stamp out a dozen rounds. Line a greased dariole-mould with the prepared paste: use the thumb to make the paste lie evenly in the mould, trim away the edges, raise the sides a little, line with paper and fill each croustade with raw rice, and bake them a golden colour; when done, empty out the rice, and place them on a dish. The tops must be stamped out with a small