23 SAUCES IN GENERAL and salt; moisten with a tablespoonful of good salad oil, and a dessert- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, taking care that the sauce be kept rather thick. Having sufficiently moistened the sauce, take it out of the mortar into the tammy placed over a dish for that purpose, and proceed to rub the sauce through the tammy in the same manner as a puree; pass the back part of a knife along the under-part of the tammy, in order to detach any adhesive particles; take the sauce up into a small basin, to be kept on the ice till wanted for use, and just before sending to table add some chopped parsley. Be sure that this sauce is kept about the same degree of thickness as reduced Veloute sauce; salt must be used in moderation, owing to the presence of anchovies in the composition. Remoulade Sauce Blanch one teaspoonful of tarragon, chervil, chives, burnet, and parsley; extract the water and pound these herbs together, with one yolk of hard egg. Moisten with a gill of salad oil and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and season with pepper and salt. Pass the sauce through the tammy as for a puffie, and then take it up into a small basin; keep it on the ice till it is required for use. Tartare Sauce Place a round-bottomed basin in a deep saute-pan containing some pounded ice; put two raw yolks of eggs into the basin with a little pepper and salt, and with the back part of a wooden spoon proceed to work the yolks of eggs, dropping in at intervals very small quantities of half a pint of salad oil, and two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, until a sufficient quantity of sauce is produced, bearing in mind that the relative quantity of oil to be used in pro- portion to the vinegar is as four to one. When the sauce is finished, add one teaspoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil and half a shalot. In making this sauce, should it decompose through inattention, it may instantly be restored to its proper consistency by mixing in it a good tablespoonful of cold white sauce. Mayonnaise Sauce Place two raw yolks of eggs in a round-bottomed basin, and set this in a deep saute-pan containing some pounded ice; add a little pepper and salt to the yolks, and proceed to work them quickly with the back part of the bowl of a wooden spoon, moistening at intervals with a pint of salad oil and half a gill of French vinegar, which must, however, be sparingly used at first, and gradually increased as you proceed, until by this means the quantity of sauce desired is produced; add a little lemon juice to make the sauce white. Previous to using the sauce, add a tablespoonful of aspic jelly (see p. 24), which must be just barely melted before incorporating it with the Mayonnaise, as in the case of its being made warm it might have the effect of turning and decomposing the sauce.