THE MODERN COOK 3°4 thyme, a blade of mace, and six peppercorns ; moisten the galantine with enough white stock to cover it, and put on the fire to boil; it must then be placed on a very slow fire, or in the oven, to continue gently simmering (not boiling) for about two hours and a half. It should then be removed from the fire, and put in press between two dishes with a heavy weight upon it. Strain the stock, remove all fat from the surface, and clarify it in the usual manner, then pass it through a jelly-bag, and set on ice to become firm. When cold, the galantine must then be glazed, and placed upon a dish. Decorate with aspic jelly, and serve. Note.—Galantines of turkeys, geese, capons, fowls, pheasants, partridges, etc., are made in the same way as the above. ENTREES OF PIGEONS AND DUCKS Pigeons a la Gauthier Procure two young fat pigeons, draw, singe, and truss them with their legs thrust inside. Put two ounces of butter into a small stew-pan with the juice of half a lemon, a little mignonette pepper, and salt; place this over the fire, and when the butter is melted, put the pigeons in with a bunch of herbs, cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon and a circular piece of buttered paper, and leave to simmer very gently on a slow fire for about twenty minutes, when they will be done. The pigeons must then be drained until all the fat has been absorbed, then place them on a dish with a large quenelle of fowl (decorated with truffles) in between each pigeon; pour some of the sauce over and round the pigeons, and serve. Pigeons a la Crapaudine Cut two pigeons in halves, lengthwise through the breast; flatten each of these with a cutlet bat, and then remove the bones from the breasts and legs; season with pepper and salt, and simmer them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter over the fire until they become partly set; then put in press between two dishes, and when cold, bread-crumb twice—first, after being dipped in beaten egg, and the second time in clarified butter. When about to send to table, broil the pigeons over a clear fire; glaze, and dish up, pour some Poivrade sauce over (see p. 8), and serve. Pigeons a la Duchesse Remove the bones entirely from two or more young pigeons; stuff them with some quenelle force-meat of veal mixed with two tablespoonfuls of sauce and some chopped mushrooms; sew up neatly so as to give an appearance of plumpness; put them in a stew-pan with some white stock, and braise very gently over a slow fire for about twenty minutes ; then remove on to a dish and allow to become partially cold; the pigeons should then be covered all over with a thin coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and when this is become set by cooling, roll them first in bread-crumbs, then dip