363 SIDE-DISHES Oysters au Naturel After being opened, place each oyster on the upper shell with a little of the liquor ; they are then arranged on a dish, garnished with sprigs of fresh parsley, and, if possible, surrounded with shaved ice. Some thinly cut slices of buttered brown bread and quarters of lemon are handed round at the same time ; also Nepaul or cayenne pepper. Oyster Chaud = froid Blanch in their own liquor twelve large natives, drain them, and remove the beards. Have ready some Aspic Mayonnaise, coat each oyster well with this, and let them be set on the ice on a wire tray. Stamp out some dot shapes of red pimiento, place these in rings of olives, and set one in the centre of each oyster. Mask with a little dissolved aspic, and place them on little round crohtes of fried or toasted bread. Dish up and garnish with parsley. Oyster Cocktail Allow five to six small oysters for each person; open and drop them with the liquor into a wine-glass ; add a little lemon juice, three drops of Tabasco sauce or Chili vinegar, a teaspoonful of Worcester- shire sauce, and one dessertspoonful of Tomato catsup; stir up and serve. Scraped horse-radish may, if liked, be served separately. Oysters (Richelieu Style) Twelve large sauce oysters, J small lobster, i gill cream, J pint aspic jelly, 2 tablespoonfuls Mayonnaise sauce, ^ ounce French gelatine, ^ gill tomato puree, tarragon and chervil leaves for garnish, \ small head celery, a gill picked shrimps. Beard the oysters, and poach them in their own liquor. Reduce the oyster liquor, and strain into the aspic jelly (great care must be taken to preserve the latter perfectly clear). Chop the meat of the lobster rather finely, melt the gelatine in the tomato puree, strain, and mix with half the jelly. Whisk the cream, and stir it together with a tablespoonful of Mayonnaise into the above. Whisk for some minutes, then add the minced lobster. Mask some deep oyster moulds with aspic jelly, decorate tastefully with sprigs of tarragon and chervil leaves. Mix the remainder of aspic with the remaining Mayonnaise sauce, and pour a thin layer of it over the decorated moulds; when set, fill each with the prepared puree, and place on the ice until set. Meanwhile prepare a salad with the celery (finely shredded) and the shrimps, and season to taste. Turn out the moulds, arrange the oysters on a dish in the form of a border, fill the centre with the prepared salad, garnish the dish to taste, and serve. Oysters with Caviare Open the required number of oysters, remove the beards, and put a teaspoonful of seasoned Russian or hygienic caviare on the.lower (deep) shell of each ; place the oysters upon these, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and dish up. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon and parsley. Keep it on the ice till required for table.