444 THE MODERN COOK the peaches in slices and arrange tastefully on top of'the omelet. Put the syrup in the stew-pan with the two yolks, add the Kirschwasser, whisk over the fire long enough to bind, then pour over or round the omelet, and serve quickly. Pancakes, Plain Mix four ounces of flour, a dessertspoonful of orange-flower water, three yolks and one whole egg, one and a half gills of cream, and a very little salt. When milk is used instead of cream, half an ounce of butter should be added, and must be melted previous to its being mixed in with the batter. When about to fry the pancakes, melt about half an ounce of butter or lard in a small stew-pan. Pour in enough batter to cover the bottom of the pan; fry the pancakes on both sides a light-brown colour, pile one upon another on the dish, and serve immediately. Plain pancakes should be eaten with a little lemon juice and some castor sugar. Pancakes a la Celestine Prepare the pancakes as above, and as each is fried, spread some apricot jam upon it, then roll it up, and put on a baking-sheet in the oven; shake some sifted sugar over, brown in the oven, and then dish up the pancakes on a fancy paper, and serve them quite hot. Pancakes Souffles Prepare a gill of souffle mixture (see p. 440) and a gill of pancake batter. Fry the pancakes, and as they are done, spread them over with apricot jam, and pile them up one upon another with a thick layer of souffle mixture in between each pancake. Then bake for about half an hour; sprinkle with castor sugar, and serve immediately. PUDDINGS IN GENERAL Banana Amber Pudding Peel six bananas and mash them up finely into a pulp. Line the edges of a pie-dish with rings of short crust or puff paste. Boil up one pint of milk with two ounces of loaf sugar, and pour over two eggs beaten up. Stir well and add the banana pulp. Mix one ounce of cornflour with a little cold milk, stir this over the fire till thick, and incorporate with the above. Pour into the pie-dish, previously buttered. Whisk stiffly the white of an egg, sweeten with a table- spoonful of castor sugar, and spread it roughly over the top of the pudding, then bake in a moderately heated oven for about twenty minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Brown = Bread Pudding a la Gotha Six oz. brown-bread crumbs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, | pt. whipped cream or milk, some grated lemon rind, a little cinnamon powder, 4 oz. morello cherries, and a little salt.