THE MODERN COOK 462 and sides of a plain mould with these; then fill the interior of the charlotte with any of the above creams. The same kinds of fruit as are used for making a Macedoine jelly may be added to the cream. Celestina Strawberry Cream Fix a jelly mould or plain charlotte mould in some coarse ice. Line the bottom and sides of the mould with picked strawberries, which must first be dipped in .some liquid jelly; then fill the interior of this kind of charlotte with some strawberry cream prepared for the purpose. Banana and Macaroon Custard Crush finely half-a-dozen macaroons, put them in a pie-dish, and pour over a glass of sherry or marsala. Boil up one pint of milk sweetened with one tablespoonful of castor sugar. Pour this slowly on to four beaten yolks of eggs, return to the pan, and stir over the fire until the custard begins to bind, i.e. thicken, then stir in the soaked macaroons and the pulp of four ripe bananas. Allow to cool a little, and pour it into a glass dish. Decorate the top with strips of angelica and halves of glace cherries. Banana and Tapioca Sponge Peel and slice six not overripe bananas, put them in a stew-pan with two ounces of loaf-sugar and one gill of water, and cook for about ten minutes, then add the juice of half a lemon and rub through a sieve. Boil up one pint of milk and stir in two ounces of very fine tapioca. Sweeten to taste and cook whilst stirring for about twenty minutes. To this add the banana pulp, reheat, and stir or fold in the stiffly whisked whites of two eggs. Stir till nearly cold, then pour into a glass dish, pile up high, and serve cold. This dish is equally nice if served hot. Some whipped cream, slightly sweetened, served with this dish, makes an excellent accompaniment. Cream a la Romaine Blanch three ounces of sweet almonds with one ounce of bitter almonds, and when peeled, washed, and wiped dry, chop rather finely. Next place them in a sugar-boiler and stir them over the fire with a wooden spoon until they have acquired a light-brown colour, then add the almonds to a pint of milk that has been kept boiling for the purpose ; to this add four ounces of sugar and four yolks of eggs, and stir the whole quickly over the fire until the yolks are set. Then pass through a fine sieve, when the mixture will resemble a light fawn-coloured cream. Dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine in half a gill of water, and strain it to half a pint of whipped cream. Pour the cream into a mould, and set on ice as usual. Cream a la Chateaubriand Set a jelly mould in ice, and then proceed to ornament the bottom and sides with blanched almonds that have been split and soaked to whiten them, each being first dipped in some rather strong