SIDE-DISHES 361 Stuffed Olives with Anchovies Stone a bottle of large olives (Spanish or Lucca olives), curl up some anchovy fillets, and insert one in each olive; or, if preferred, mince the anchovy fillets and then fill the olives. Dish them up on a glass dish, insert a sprig of curly parsley in each. Sprinkle over a few drops of salad oil, and serve. Olives a la Reine Take 12 large Spanish (Queen’s) olives, 4 sardines (boneless), 3 oz. fresh butter, a teaspoonful anchovy paste, i lemon, a few French gherkins (pickled), 1 hard-boiled egg, and small fried bread croutes. Carefully remove the stones from the olives, pound the sardines in a mortar, add the butter, anchovy paste, the yolk of the egg, and a few drops of lemon juice; season with a good pinch of paprika pepper. Mix thoroughly and rub through a fine wire sieve. Put this mixture into a forcing-bag with a plain tube or pipe and fill the olives. Have ready the fried bread crofltes, force out a little of the mixture on each of the crofltes and place on it the olives; decorate the base of the crofltes with the above mixture. Dish up on little glass dishes, garnish with white of egg (hard-boiled) and gherkins all shredded as finely as possible, and serve. Stuffed Olives with Foie=Gras Take ten to twelve large Spanish olives (Queen’s), cut out the stones by means of a column cutter. Toast two slices of bread, and stamp out some rounds about an inch in diameter. Pound till smooth four ounces of foie-gras pat£, two yolks of hard-boiled eggs, one ounce of butter; season with pepper and salt, and rub through a sieve ; spread thinly the rounds of toast with this, put the remainder of the purde into a forcing-bag, and fill the olives. Place each in the centre of each croflte, decorate tastefully with creamed butter and sprigs of parsley, dish up neatly, and serve. Plovers’ Eggs Boil the eggs for about eight minutes, plunge them into cold water and remove the shells; or, if preferred, shell only the pointed end of each egg, Range them on a dish on a bed of water-cress or parsley, and serve. Soused Cepes If fresh cbpes are obtainable, parboil them after being cleaned in salted water, drain and cool them, then put them in a basin and pour over a hot marinade, composed of one and a half gills of vinegar, half a gill of salad oil, half a clove of garlic crushed, a few pepper- corns also crushed, and a few sprigs of savoury herbs. Boil up and pour over the chpes. Allow them to soak for four hours or longer, then take up, cut them into thin slices and range on a dish, pour over some of the strained marinade and serve. Chpes are obtainable already cooked, in glass or tins, from first-class grocers.