DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL J33 a water-souchet dish with shredded carrot and parsley roots and leaves previously prepared for that purpose. Water souchets of fillets of trout, char, and indeed of almost every species of the more delicate kinds of fresh-water fish are made according to the foregoing directions. Soles a la Colbert Clean, skin, and trim two soles, wash and wipe them dry with a clean cloth; then egg and bread-crumb them over and fry them, after which cut them open at the back, and carefully take out the backbone; fill the inside with some cold Maitre d’Hotel butter (see p. 11) j turn the soles on their backs in a dish, pour round them a little essence of anchovies (see p. 42), and serve them quite hot. Sole au Gratin Spread a little fresh butter on a silver gratin dish, and place one large sole, head and tail, on it; season with pepper and salt, sprinkle some chopped parsley over, and moisten with a glass of white wine and a little consommd; half an hour before dinner put in the oven to bake; when it has been in twenty minutes, take it out; and, after saucing all over with some Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5), shake some fine raspings of bread over the whole, and put the sole back in the oven to gratinate for a few minutes; just before sending to table pass the red-hot salamander over it, and serve. Soles with Fine Herbs Skin and trim one or more soles; put them in a buttered saute- pan ; sprinkle over them a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and one shalot; season with pepper and salt, and a little nutmeg, and moisten with a glass of white wine and a little con- somme ; cover them with a buttered paper, and set them in the oven to poach for fifteen to twenty minutes. When done, drain their liquor into a small stew-pan containing a gill of Allemande sauce ; add a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a small piece of fresh butter, and lemon juice; work the whole well together on the fire; wipe the edges of the dish, and sauce the soles over; place round them a border of crofitons, and send them to table. Soles a la Parisienne Trim a pair of soles, slit them down the back, and take the bone out; stuff the soles with some quenelle force-meat of whiting mixed with some chopped fine herbs ; put them on a buttered baking-tin, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of white wine, cover with a buttered paper, and put them in the oven to poach. When done, put them in press between two dishes, and set them in the larder to cool. In the meantime, prepare some stiffly reduced Allemande sauce, with which, after neatly trimming the soles, cover them all over; and when the sauce has set firmly upon them, dip them in egg and then in bread-crumbs; fry them a golden colour,