66 THE MODERN COOK minutes, then add it to the consomme of game. Next add the cooked carrots, and let the consomme simmer gently for about ten minutes. Skim, and season to taste. Put the prepared and cut cubes of custard in a soup tureen, pour over the consomme, and serve. Consomme Portugaise 2 quarts consomme, 3-4 ripe tomatoes, 18 French plums, 2 small leeks, ^ oz. butter, a pinch of cayenne. Wash the plums, put them in cold water with a little salt; bring to the boil, strain, and rinse in cold water; return to the stew-pan in which they were blanched, with sufficient clear stock to well cover, and cook slowly till tender. Wash and clean the leeks, cut into shreds or Julienne-shaped strips about an inch long, wash well in cold water, drain, and cook a few minutes with the butter; pour in some clarified stock or consomme, and cook slowly till tender. Carefully remove all the fat, pour over the consomme, and let simmer for a few minutes. Put the plums in a soup tureen, add a pinch of cayenne, pour in the consomme, and serve with some sippets of toasted bread. Consomme Metternich 2 quarts consomme (i.e. clarified beef broth), 1 small chicken or fowl, 4 small ripe tomatoes, 1 heaped-up tablespoonful arrowroot, 1 glass sherry or Marsala, seasoning. Roast the chicken or fowl for ten minutes in a hot oven, and baste frequently, to ensure it being a nice golden brown. Take up and place it in the consomme with two tomatoes previously sliced. Simmer very gently for about one hour. Take out the fowl and place it in a dish to cool. Boil up the consomme again, remove the scum and fat, and strain it into another stew-pan. Blanch the remaining two tomatoes, peel them, and cut into dice; remove the seeds, and place the dice into the soup. Mix the sherry and arrow- root to a smooth paste and stir into the soup. Simmer for another ten minutes. Take the fillet from the fowl or chicken, free it from skin, and cut into small dice ; put this into the soup, season it to taste with salt and pepper, boil up again, skim, and serve. The remains of the chicken can be utilised for some other purpose. Consomme Mikado 2 quarts consomme flavoured with curry, 4 oz. lean veal, 2 oz. lean mutton, the breast of a small chicken, 2 oz. butter, £ onion, a bouquet garni, 2 tablespoonfuls cooked rice, pepper and salt. The curry to flavour the soup should be added to the stock before it is clarified. Cut the meat into even-sized small pieces, mince the onion finely. Put the butter in a stew-pan; when melted, add the bouquet of herbs and minced onion, cook a little, then add the pieces of meat; let it brown a little, put in the clear soup, let it come to a boil, skimming it thoroughly before it boils. Simmer gently for a good half-hour, season with pepper and salt, put in the boiled rice, take out the bouquet, and pour the soup into a hot tureen ready for serving.