BROTHS, CONSOMMES, ETC. 51 fire for two hours, if made with a carcase, but if an old hen is used it will require at least an hour longer. When done, skim off the fat and pass the consomme through a cloth into a basin for use. This consomme may be considered as the proper basis of all white soups, and is most useful in clarifying and flavouring all white sauces. White Consomme of Pheasants or Partridges The same process is to be followed in making this consommd as the foregoing, substituting, of course, game for poultry. This consomm^, after being partially reduced to glaze, is used for the purpose of imparting the flavour of game to any white sauce, such as Supreme, Allemande, Bechamel, Veloutd, or white Italian sauce. It is also useful for mixing white purees of game. Brown Extract of Larks or Quails After having filleted four or six larks or quails, and removed the gizzards from the trail of the larks, put a stew-pan on the fire with an ounce of fresh butter in it; when the butter begins to get hot, put the bones or carcases of the larks or quails into the stew-pan and fry them brown. Then add half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, two shalots, and one glass of either sherry or Marsala. Let these simmer gently for five minutes, after which add one quart of common stock. Allow the extract to boil slowly by the side of the fire for three-quarters of an hour; pass it through a hair-sieve into a basin and reserve it for working the sauces intended for gratins of quails or larks, and also for fumet sauces for p&tes-chauds of either of the previously mentioned small birds. Extract of woodcocks or snipes is obtained in a similar manner. Extract of Hare or Rabbit This is made by putting the bones or carcases of either a hare or rabbit into a stew-pan with two or three glasses of any sort of white wine, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and two shalots, and then sub- mitting it to the action of a rather slow fire, until the liquid becomes reduced to a glaze, when a quart of common stock should be added. Put it on a brisk fire to boil, skim it well, and then put it by the side of the stove to simmer gently for an hour and a half, after which time pass it through a napkin into a basin, and keep it for use as occasion may require. Common Gravy Spread the bottom of a middle-sized stew-pan with two ounces of butter; place some slices of onions over this, and then add two pounds of gravy beef cut into thick slices, and any trimmings of meat there may be to spare; moisten with a quart of common stock, and set the stew-pan over a brisk fire to boil. When the stock is reduced to glaze, slacken the heat of the fire, and allow the gravy to acquire a deep red-brown colour ; then fill the stew-pan up with two quarts of common stock or water, garnish with two carrots, a stick of celery,