THE MODERN COOK 262 the whole well together over the fire until warm, and dish up in a conical form; place four poached eggs round it; pour a little Bechamel sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. Another Method Put one ounce of butter into a stew-pan on the fire, and when melted, throw in a dessertspoonful of flour; stir this with a wooden spoon over the fire for two minutes ; then gradually mix in half a pint of stock, stirring it until reduced to the thickness of Bechamel sauce; then add the minced veal, a tablespoonful of cream, a small piece of glaze, and a little nutmeg, pepper and salt; stir this on the fire for three minutes, and serve with poached eggs as in the previous recipe. Note.—Mushrooms, truffles, tongue, or ham, either minced or cut into shreds, may be added to the veal in either of the two foregoing recipes. Minced Veal a la Portuguaise See the directions for dressing beef in this method (p. 238). SWEETBREADS,1 Etc. Sweetbreads Larded with Green Peas A pair of heart sweetbreads generally suffice for a dish. They should be steeped in water for several hours, and the water frequently changed; then scalded in boiling water for about three minutes, and plunged in cold water for half an hour; after which they must be drained well, trimmed free from any sinewy fat, and put between two dishes to be slightly pressed flat, and then closely larded with strips of larding bacon in the usual manner. The sweetbreads must next be placed in a deep stew-pan on a bed of thinly-sliced carrot, celery, and onions, with a bouquet garni placed in the centre, the whole covered with thin layers of fat bacon. Moisten with about half a pint of good stock, place a round of buttered paper on the top, cover with the lid, and after having put the sweetbreads to boil on the fire, remove them to the oven or on to the side of the fire (in the latter case live embers of charcoal must be placed on the lid) and allow them to braise rather briskly for about twenty minutes— frequently basting them with their own liquor. When done, remove the lid and paper covering, and set again in the oven to dry the surface of the larding; glaze nicely, and dish up on some stewed peas (see p. 35). Sweetbreads prepared in this way may also be served with dressed asparagus peas, French beans, cut slices of cucumbers, braised 1 Sweetbreads are two white glands found in all young animals : one being placed immediately below the throat, and the other, of a rounder form, lying nearer the heart. They are termed heart and throat sweetbreads : the former or pancreas is the most delicate, and when in perfection is white and fat; the latter is of an elongated form, not so fat as the other, and is only used for secondary purposes.