REMOVES OF TURKEY AND CAPON 207 Capon a 1’Estragon Braise the capon in the usual way; when done, the liquor in which it has been braised must be clarified, and a few sprigs of green tarragon thrown into it while boiling; the consomme should then be strained and boiled down nearly to the consistency of half- glaze, to be poured over the capon when served. Some leaves of green tarragon must be 'boiled for a minute or two in water, and used to ornament the breast of the capon. Capon with Rice After the capon has been drawn, wash the inside thoroughly clean, and dry with a cloth. Then nearly fill the capon with rice, boiled quite soft in white stock, and mixed with a good tablespoonful of white sauce; it should afterwards be trussed for boiling, and placed in an oval stew-pan, with an onion stuck with two cloves, and a carrot. Add as much white stock as will cover the breast of the fowl, over which lay an oval piece of buttered paper; place the lid on the stew-pan, and about an hour and a half before it is wanted set it to boil gently on a slow fire. When done, drain the fowl, and having removed the strings, place it upon a dish, garnish round neatly with rice, previously boiled in white stock, to which has been added a large tablespoonful of white sauce, a yolk of egg, a little mignonette pepper, grated nutmeg, and a small pat of fresh butter. Work the rice over a brisk fire for five minutes, and then, with two tablespoons, mould it into the form of large eggs, and place these round the capon in a close border; sauce the capon with Supreme or Bechamel sauce, and serve. If the capon is intended to be served plain, the sauce, etc., must be omitted, and instead of masking it with sauce, pour some essence of fowl under it; this may be obtained by clarifying some of the stock in which it has boiled, and afterwards boiling it down to the consistency of half-glaze. Capon k la Milanaise Truss and boil a capon in the usual way, and when done, dish it up and garnish with a ragoiit of macaroni dressed with truffles, red tongue, and mushrooms. Capon with Macaroni Boil the capon as directed for the capon h. la Godard; dish up, and garnish with macaroni prepared as follows :—Boil six ounces of macaroni in water, with a small pat of butter, a little salt and mignonette pepper; when it is done, drain it in a colander, cut the pipes into pieces two inches long, and put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a pat of butter, a little mignonette pepper, and a large tablespoonful of white sauce; stir the macaroni, or rather toss it, over a brisk fire, and when the cheese is incorporated with the sauce, etc., use as directed; mask the breast of the capon with Bechamel, and serve.