222 THE MODERN COOK Tourte1 of Whiting a la Dauphine Fillet two medium whitings, and set one half aside on a plate in a cool place; with the remainder prepare some quenelle force-meat (see p. 60), and mould with dessertspoons into quenelles. Trim the remaining fillets, and cut each in two transversely. Place these in a stew-pan with four ounces of clarified butter, season with a little salt, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them; cover with thin layers of fat bacon, or a round of buttered paper, and set aside in the larder till wanted. While this is going on make an extract, or essence, with the bones and trimmings of the whitings, as follows:— Put the bones, etc., into a stew-pan with a shalot, one bay leaf and a sprig of thyme, eight peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a few sprigs of parsley ; moisten with a glass of white wine (French is preferable), and a pint of white stock. Leave to boil gently on the fire for half an hour, then strain and boil down nearly to a glaze, and mix with half a pint or more of Allemande or Bechamel sauce. Pass it through a tammy or fine strainer into a stew-pan, containing the quenelles of whiting, with the addition of a dozen button-mushrooms and one ounce of truffles, cut into thick slices; toss the whole together gently over the fire until quite hot, then fill the tourte with this ragout and with the fillets of whiting (previously set in the oven for ten minutes to simmer, and afterwards drained). Cover, and serve quickly. Tourte of Qodiveau au Madere Prepare about three-quarters of a pound of godiveau (see p. 61), and make it into small quenelles in the following manner:—Shake a handful of flour over a pastry-slab; make up the godiveau with a teaspoon in small quantities; then roll each of these in the flour with the fingers dipped in flour, to the size and form of an ordinary cork; set them in rows upon a baking-sheet, and bake in the oven for about ten minutes; when done, put them into a stew-pan con- taining about half a pint of Madeira sauce, and also two artichoke- bottoms cut into angular pieces, a few pieces of sweetbread, and a few large button-mushrooms; set the whole to boil on the fire for three minutes; fill the tourte, pour in the remainder of the sauce, cover, and serve. Tourte of Lobster a la Cardinal Choose a nice fresh lobster, and remove the shell. Cut the flesh into neat pieces ; put these into a stew-pan containing half a pint of good Bechamel sauce, mixed with about two ounces of lobster coral butter (see p. 42), a little cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon ; toss the whole together over the fire until sufficiently hot, and fill the tourte ; put the cover on, and serve. 1 Directions for making this kind of Tourte will be found in the section dealing with l’uff-pastry.