109 NATIONAL SOUPS fowl trussed for boiling; fill up with three quarts of common broth or water, and having skimmed the broth garnish with the usual vege- tables. As soon as the fowl and lamb are done take them up, and when cold cut the meat off the shoulder of lamb into small cutlet-like pieces, and the fowl into neatly-trimmed joints. Place these in a small sauce-pan with four ounces of Carolina rice boiled in some of the consomme, after it has been clarified and seasoned with an infusion of a few drops of hay saffron and a pinch of cayenne ; and then having reduced the consomme to two-thirds of its original quantity, pour it upon the foregoing ingredients, adding two ounces of dried cherries or sultana raisins; boil these together for a quarter of an hour, and send to table. This kind of soup is very nutritious, and, from the cayenne and saffron contained in it, is calculated to give tone to the stomach. Macaroni Soup a la Royale Boil three ounces of Naples macaroni in a quart of boiling water with one ounce of fresh butter, a little mignonette pepper, and salt. When the macaroni has boiled half an hour, drain it off upon a sieve, cut it into half-inch lengths, and boil it in three pints of good chicken or game consomme for ten minutes ; take it off the stove and mix with it a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, half an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, and a little mignonette pepper; set the liaison in the soup by stirring it on the fire for three minutes, and send to table. Vermicelli or any other Italian paste may be substituted for the' macaroni. This soup is sometimes designated “h l’ltalienne.” Macaroni Soup a la Medicis Boil three ounces of Naples macaroni, and cut it into inch lengths ; at the same time trim the tails of one dozen crayfish and the same number of quenelles of fowl, coloured with crayfish butter ; place these in the silver lining of a soup-tureen according to the following directions:— Butter the bottom of the lining and spread thereon a layer of macaroni, then a layer of grated Parmesan cheese, after which place a layer of crayfish tails; repeat the layer of grated cheese, and place on that a layer of small quenelles ; and thus proceed until the several articles prepared for the purpose are disposed of. Then add a pint of strong consomm£, and cover the top with grated cheese; melt a small pat of fresh butter over the fire and sprinkle it on the top of the whole preparation ; then set the tureen lining thus filled to gratinate in the oven, which will require about half an hour. Lastly, place the lining on a dish to be served from the side table while more bright clear consomme is to be sent up in another tureen. In helping the soup at table first put a small ladleful of the preparation of macaroni, etc., on a soup plate, and add to it a ladleful of the consomme.