46 THE MODERN COOK Ragofit of Scallops of Sweetbreads First, blanch and then braise in a little white stock two or three throat sweetbreads for about twenty minutes ; then take them up on a plate, and allow them to cool; cut them into neat scallops and place them in a small stew-pan with half a pint of any sort of sauce appropriate to the entree which this ragout is intended to garnish. A similar kind of ragout may be prepared with lambs’ sweet- breads, calves’, sheep’s, or lambs’ brains. Ragofit of Soft Roes of Mackerel or other Fish Parboil the soft roes of two or three mackerel or carp in a little boiling water mixed with one tablespoonful of French vinegar and a little salt; drain them on a napkin, and put them into a saute-pan containing a small half pint of Allemande or Supreme sauce ; add one dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and a little nut- meg and lemon juice; toss the whole gently together over the fire, taking care not to break or bruise the roes, and place them in the centre of the fillets of fish prepared to receive them. Cardinal Ragout Prepare one dozen small quenelles of lobster, which place in a stew-pan with the same quantity of picked and trimmed prawns’ tails, button mushrooms, and small round truffles; to these add half a pint of Cardinal sauce for the remove or entree ; then boil the ragofit for three minutes on the fire, when it will be ready for use. Ragout of Scallops of Soles, etc. Fillet two fine soles, or a proportionate quantity of any other sort of fish; place them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter, pepper, salt, and lemon juice; cover them with a round of buttered paper, and set them in the oven for about ten minutes; when they are done, drain them on a napkin and afterwards place them on a dish to be put in the larder to cool. Next cut them into neatly trimmed scallops, and put these into a stew-pan; add either half a pint of Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or Dutch sauce, whichever is most suitable for the kind of fish these scallops are intended to garnish. Ragofit of Scallops of Salmon or Trout These scallops should be prepared in every respect in the same manner as the foregoing, except that, previous to adding the sauce, a little lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon juice should be mixed in. Parisian Ragofit One dozen trimmed crayfish tails, button mushrooms, small round truffles, and cocks’ kernels should be put into a stew-pan con- taining half a pint of Parisian sauce (see p. n); make the ragout hot previously to using it.