ENTREES OF PIGEONS AND DUCKS 3°9 a small stew-pan with the juice of a lemon, a little mignonette pepper, and a piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, and set them on a slow fire to simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; add some finished Espagnole sauce in sufficient quantity for the purpose, boil the whole together, pour it round the ducks, and serve. This dish is sometimes called a la Lyonnaise. Duckling a la Rouennaise Truss a fat duckling as for boiling, put it in a stew-pan with about three ounces of streaky bacon (previously parboiled), a carrot, an onion, and a bouquet garni, and cover with thin layers of fat bacon and a round of buttered paper; moisten with a pint of white stock, and then leave to braise gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Cut four or five young turnips into the shape of large olives or half-moons, and fry these in a stew-pan with an ounce of clarified butter and a teaspoonful of castor sugar over the fire, until they brown slightly; then strain off the butter, and put the turnips into a smaller stew-pan containing half a pint of bright Espagnole sauce; add a little of the liquor from the duck to flavour them, and leave to boil gently by the side of the fire. When about to send to table, the duck may either be served whole, or cut up into small joints and neatly trimmed ; pile these in the same manner as for a fricassee, keeping the fillets and breasts for the top; garnish the entree with the turnips, place a border of slices of streaky bacon round, pour the sauce over the duck, and serve. Stewed Duckling with Olives Prepare a duckling as before, and when done, cut up into neatly trimmed small joints, consisting of two legs and two fillets with the pinions left on them ; then cut the breast into two pieces, and also the back; clarify the liquor used in the braising, and after it has been reduced by boiling to half-glaze, warm the pieces of duckling in it, and dish up as before directed; garnish with a ragout of olives, place the pieces of streaky bacon round, pour the sauce over the duckling, and serve. Duckling with Green Peas Prepare the duckling as directed in the previous recipes. Stew one pint of young peas (see p. 35), and finish them with a little of the glaze made from the liquor in which the duckling has been braised; the small joints of the duckling must also be warmed in some of the same glaze, and dished up in a pile upon some of the stewed peas ; garnish the base of the entree with the remainder ; place a row of the slices of streaky bacon upon these, pour some bright Espagnole sauce (see p. 3) over the entree, and serve. Fillets of Duckling a la Bigarade Draw and singe the duckling, and pick out any remaining feathers; then separate the breast from the legs and back by running the knife in just above the thighs and cutting through the upper part of