BRAISES, POELES, MIREPOIX, ETC. 57 it off through a tammy cloth (using considerable pressure) into a kitchen pan, and reserve it for use. This marinade is used for the purpose of preserving larded beef, mutton, venison, or roebuck, as well as to braise either of these in, when it is wished to dress them a la Chevreuil or roebuck fashion. Cold Marinade, or Pickle Take a large earthen vessel capable of containing whatever joint is intended to be marinaded or pickled, then cut into very thin slices or shreds two carrots and as many onions; add to these a few cloves, mace, peppercorns, a sprig of thyme, bay-leaves and basil, and a tablespoonful of salt. After having mixed all these together, pour in about two pints of cold water and one pint of vinegar; keep the pan (containing the marinade) covered with its lid in a cool place, for the purpose of pickling therein joints of red deer, roebuck, mountain hares, fillets of mutton or beef, etc. In Scotland this sort of marinade will prove very serviceable, especially if cooking for a shooting party, and when the larders are well supplied with moor and Highland game. Blanc or White Braise for Calves’ Heads or Ears, and also for Lambs’ Feet or Ears Chop two or three ounces of beef suet and the same quantity of fat bacon ; put these into a stew-pan, together with a bunch of herbs and parsley, a couple of carrots and onions, inserting four cloves into one of the latter; add the pulp of one lemon, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a little salt; place the stew-pan on the fire for about ten minutes, carefully stirring the ingredients the whole time in order to prevent them from acquiring a brown colour; then pour in three pints of water to produce the quantity of blanc required. Allow the blanc to boil one hour, then strain it through a hair-sieve and use it for the purpose intended. Mirepoix for Braising Game, etc. Take half a pound of fat bacon and half a pound of lean ham, two carrots, two onions, three or four mushrooms, three shalots, a clove of garlic, two bay-leaves, some sprigs of thyme, six cloves, two blades of mace, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns; cut these ingredients up into small square pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with two or three ounces of butter, and fry them brown ; then add two glasses of Madeira or sherry and a pint of good broth ; boil the mirepoix by the side of the fire for about an hour and a half, and then strain it through a tammy (with considerable pressure, to extract all the goodness) into a basin, to be kept for such purposes as will be here- after directed. White Roux, or Thickening for Sauces Take some fresh butter,—say four ounces,—put it into a stew-pan on a moderate fire to clarify; skim it, and then pour it off into a thick-bottomed stew-pan, care being taken that none of the scum be