407 CAKES IN GENERAL greengage jam, etc., between the leaves or pearls of the white of egg decoration. By these means a very pretty effect is produced, and one that is perfectly wholesome. Genoise Cake J lb. butter, £ lb. castor sugar, the finely chopped thin rind of \ lemon, 5 small eggs, \ lb. sifted flour, £ teaspoonful vanilla essence. Put the butter in a warm basin and work it with a wooden spoon till creamy, then add the lemon rind and sugar, and beat these together until quite white; it will take about fifteen minutes. Stir in, one by one, the yolks of the eggs. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix these with the flour into the above. Lastly, add the vanilla essence. Put the mixture into a flat, well-buttered cake- tin or saute-pan and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Note.—Another method is that of creaming the sugar and eggs over boiling water, and adding the other ingredients at the last. Genoese Cakes with Almonds Prepare and bake a mixture the same as the previous recipe; when the cakes are nearly done, mask the surface with the white of an egg beaten up with an ounce of sifted sugar; then sprinkle chopped almonds, mixed with castor sugar, and a few drops of orange-flower water, all over the coating of egg; dredge a little sugar on the top of this, and put the Genoese cakes back again in the oven, to finish baking. When done, the coating of almonds should be of a light-fawn colour: they must then be carefully removed from the baking-sheet, cut or stamped out in shapes according to fancy, and dished up in a pyramidal form. Madeleines These are made with the same kind of batter as Genoese cakes, to which currants, dried cherries, candied peel, or angelica may be added. When the batter is ready, pour into a sufficient number of greased fluted or plain dariole or madeleine moulds; these must be placed on a baking-sheet spread with ashes, and then baked in a moderate oven. When done, turn them out of the moulds, and dish up in a pyramidal form. These cakes may also be partially emptied by removing a part of the top and scooping out the crumb, then filled up with some kind of preserve, and the top part replaced. Spanish Cakes, Petits = Choux Ingredients : 1 gill milk or water, x oz. butter, 1 oz. sugar, 2 oz. flour, 2 eggs, a few drops essence of orange, a very little salt, and 1 oz. chopped almonds. Put the water, butter, sugar, and the salt into a stew-pan on the fire, and as soon as these begin to boil, withdraw the stew-pan from the fire and add the flour, which must be finely sifted; stir the whole well together over the fire for about three minutes until quite smooth.