PURGES OF POULTRY AND GAME IOI Puree of Fowl a la Printaniere Prepare the puree of fowl as for the preceding soup; just before sending it to table add the cream, and then pour the puree into the soup-tureen containing a good gill of asparagus-heads boiled green. Send a plate of fried crofttons with the soup to table. Puree of Fowl a la Princesse Prepare the puree of fowl in the usual manner, and having mixed the cream in it, pour it into the tureen containing eighteen very small quenelles of fowl, and one and a half ounces of pearl-barley, well blanched and boiled for two hours in some white chicken broth. Season to taste and send to table. Puree of Fowl a la Celestine Roast a medium-sized fowl; as soon as it is cold pound the meat in a mortar together with two ounces of blanched almonds and two yolks of eggs, beginning with the almonds, then adding the yolks of eggs, and lastly the fowl. Dilute with the chicken broth made with the carcase of the fowl; rub the purde through the tammy, and put it into a basin to be kept in the cool till dinner-time: when, after having warmed it, add a tablespoonful of cream and send to table. A plate of duchess’ crusts should be sent to table with this soup. Puree of Partridges a la Conti Roast one or two red-legged partridges; take the meat from them, make three or four pints of consomme with their carcases, pound the meat thoroughly, mixing with it one and a half ounces of barley boiled for the purpose; dilute with the consomme, rub it through the tammy, and having made the puree sufficiently hot (taking care that it is not too thick), send to table with a plate of conde crofttons. Puree of Pheasant a la Royale Roast a pheasant, remove the fillets and white part of the legs ; make three or four pints of consomnffi with the remainder. Pound the fillets, etc., with two ounces of boiled rice, dilute with the consommd, and rub the puree through the tammy; finish with a small piece of game glaze or essence, and serve. The crofttons to be sent in a plate as usual. Puree of Pheasant a la Dauphine Prepare a puffie of pheasant as in the preceding recipe; when about to send the soup to table pour it into a tureen containing eighteen small potato quenelles, and serve. The potato quenelles should be prepared as follows:—Bake two or three large potatoes and rub the pulp through a wire-sieve; put this into a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of cream, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Stir these on the fire until