GLOSSARY 5*7 Laitance. Soft roe of a fish. Larder or Piquer. To lard. A culinary term which means to insert with a larding-pin (lardoire) small strips of bacon (lardoon) into a piece of meat, fish, poultry, or game. Liaison. The mixture of yolks of eggs, cream, etc., used for thickening or binding white soups and sauces. Luting. A paste made of flour and water, and used for fastening the lids on to cooking pans when preserving game, etc., in order to prevent evaporation. Macedoine. A mixture of various kinds of vegetables or fruits, cut in discs, or fruit embedded in jelly. Madeleine. Small French cakes resembling queen-cake. Maitre d’Hotel (A la). Hotel steward’s fashion. Also the name of a flavouring butter, mixed with chopped parsley, and seasoned with lemon juice, pepper, and salt; served on grilled meats or fish. Maitre d’Hotel sauce is a white sauce with chopped parsley. Dishes so named generally signify quickly and plainly prepared food in which parsley is used as the principal flavouring. Marinade. The brine in which fish or meat is soused or pickled, before cooking. Marmite. The stock-pot. Matelote. A stew of mixed fresh-water fish, sometimes of one kind only, as eels. Mayonnaise. A cold salad, sauce, or dressing. It is said to have been invented by the chef to the Due de Richelieu, after the victory of Mahon (Mahonnaise). Menu. Bill of fare. Literally, the word means minute detail of courses. A list of the dishes which are to be served at a meal. Menus were first used in 1541- Meringue. Light baked froth shell shapes, made of whites of eggs and sugar, filled with cream or ice. Meringue. Anything frosted or coated with meringue mixture baked long enough to set and colour. Mignonette Pepper. A preparation from either white or black peppercorns, which, after being broken, chopped, or ground coarse, so as to resemble mignonette seed, should be sifted in order to remove the dust. Mirepoix. Foundation preparation of vegetables, herbs, and lard, for brown soups and sauces ; also for braised meats. Mousse. A light ice-cream. Nougat. A mixture of almonds and sugar. Nouilles. A paste preparation made with flour and eggs. Panade. A culinary paste of flour and water, or soaked bread, used in the preparation of force-meat and stuffing. Paner, to bread-crumb. Panure. Cutlets, scallops, croquettes, or any other preparation that is bread- crumbed. Paprika. Hungarian red pepper. A kind of sweet capsicum of a brilliant scarlet colour ; it is less pungent than Nepaul or Spanish pepper. Parmesan. Name of an Italian cheese, largely used for culinary purposes. Pat!;. A pie, pastry ; a savoury meat pasty, or a raised pie.