264 THE MODERN COOK quenelle in the centre of the croustade, slightly glaze the sweet- breads, and serve. Note.—Sweetbreads may also be baked for persons of delicate health, being very nutritious and easily digested. In such cases they may be served with a little plain gravy, Supreme, or Brown sauce. Epigramme of Sweetbreads Procure a pair of throat sweetbreads and steep them in water for several hours, changing the water frequently; they must then be scalded for five minutes in boiling water, and after being plunged in fresh water to cool them, should be put in press between two dishes to flatten. Next put one of the sweetbreads to braise in some white stock; when done, set aside to get cool, and let it be afterwards cut into small circular slices and placed in a small stew-pan with an equal quantity of slices of red tongue and mushrooms. Cut the remaining sweetbread in a slanting direction into oval pieces a quarter of an inch thick, egg and bread-crumb; and when about to send to table, fry a light golden colour and glaze. Toss the braised sweetbreads in a little Bechamel sauce, dish up, alternately placing a bread-crumbed slice with a braised one; fill the centre with the small pieces of tongue, etc., previously warmed in a little Bechamel sauce, pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. Sweetbreads with Shalot Gravy Prepare one or more throat sweetbreads, and egg and bread- crumb as directed in the previous recipe, fry them a light colour, drain on a piece of paper, and glaze; dish up in a close circle, pour some rich shalot gravy (see p. 40) under them, and serve. Sweetbreads a la Dauphine Blanch and cut the sweetbreads into oval slices, place them in a stew-pan with a little clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, a little nutmeg and some chopped parsley, squeeze over the juice of half a lemon, and simmer gently over the fire for ten minutes; they must then be placed on a dish, and, when partially cold, covered with a thin coating of puree of fowl mixed with an equal proportion of reduced Allemande sauce, and when this has become firmly set by cooling, dip in beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Twenty minutes before sending to table, let them be carefully fried in plenty of hot fat; drain well, dish up in a close circle, pour some pur£e of mushrooms (see p. 30) in the centre, and serve. Sweetbreads k la d’Uxelles These are prepared in almost every particular just as the fore- going, except that d’Uxelles sauce must be substituted for the puree to mask the scallops with. After having simmered, let them be masked with the sauce, and afterwards bread-crumbed; then fried, dished up, and served with either of the following sauces : Brown or White Italian, Poivrade, half-glaze, scallops of mushrooms or truffles, pur£e of truffles, plain gravy, or pur£e of mushrooms.