421 TARTS AND FANCY PASTRIES Puff=Paste Walnuts Give seven turns to six ounces of puff paste and roll out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch; then stamp out about twelve rounds with a fluted cutter, and after wetting each of these with a paste-brush dipped in water, fold them up, pressing the two parts of the paste slightly so as to fasten them closely together. Then put in rows on a baking-sheet, egg over, and bake a light colour. Just before they are done, dredge over some fine sugar, replace in the oven for a little while to melt the sugar and to brown on the top; serve hot, with a broad strip of red-currant or apple jelly placed across the centre. Bread=and=Butter Pastry Give six turns to half a pound of puff paste and roll out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch; cut this into bands about three inches wide, then cut these again into strips rather more than a quarter of an inch wide, and place in rows on a baking-sheet about an inch apart, so as to allow room to rise in. Bake the strips in a rather hot oven, and just before they are done glaze them—that is, dredge over some fine sugar and brown lightly; then spread with some kind of preserve, and stick together in pairs, to imitate bread- and-butter; dish up on a fancy paper, piled up in rows, in a pyramid. This kind of pastry may also be dished up with some stiffly whipped cream, seasoned with a glass of liqueur, in the centre. Puff “Paste Rings or Wreaths Give seven turns to half a pound of puff paste and roll out to the sixth part of an inch in thickness ; stamp out twenty rounds with a fluted cutter, and remove the centre of these with a smaller plain circular cutter. Put the rings on a baking-sheet; shake some fine sugar over them, and bake a light colour in a moderate oven. When done, decorate with some whipped white of egg and sugar, over which sprinkle some coarse sugar; put them to dry, and then finish decorat- ing by inserting some strips of currant or apple jelly in between the folds or dots of the decoration. Note.—Puff paste turned or folded seven times, then rolled out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch, and stamped out with appropriate fancy-shaped cutters—either in the form of crescents, leaves, trefoil or shamrock, stars, etc.—may also be decorated in the same manner: a forcing-bag should be used for this purpose. Polish Cakes Give seven turns to half a pound of puff paste, roll out as above, and then cut up into square pieces measuring about two inches each way; wet these in the centre, and then fold down the corners so as to make them all meet in the middle of the piece of paste; place a dot of paste in the centre of each, pressing it down with the end of the finger, egg over, and bake in a quick oven, and just before they are done, shake some finely sifted sugar over; put them back again in the oven to melt the sugar and to brown lightly. Decorate this kind of pastry with bright red-currant or apple jelly.