THE MODERN COOK 3°8 place the lid on the stew-pan, and set it on the fire to boil; then put some live embers on the lid, and remove the duck to the side of the stove to braise gently for about an hour. When about to send to table, drain, remove the string, and dish up with alternate groups of a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35)—such as carrots and turnips cut in fancy shapes and nicely glazed, asparagus-heads, French beans, green peas, cauliflower, etc., as they may happen to be in season. Sauce the duck with some Allemande, and serve. Braised Duck with Turnips The duck should be trussed in the usual way, and placed in an oval stew-pan with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a bouquet garni; moisten with sufficient white stock to cover the duck, put a buttered paper over and boil gently on a slow fire for about an hour. Cut some turnips into fancy shapes, such as large olives, half-moons, etc., fry them in butter and a little sugar; when they are all equally browned, throw them into a stew-pan containing about a pint of Espagnole sauce, with the addition of some of the stock the duck is braised in. Allow the turnips to boil very gently by the side of the fire until done ; they must then be drained, their sauce clarified, skimmed, reduced to its proper consistency, and strained into a small stew-pan containing the turnips. Dish the duck up, place the turnips neatly round, pour the sauce over, and send to table. Braised Ducks with Stewed Peas Braise the ducks as directed in the foregoing recipe, and when done, dish up with stewed peas round them; sauce with a brown sauce in which some of the stock from the ducks has been reduced. They may also be prepared as follows:— Put two ounces of butter in a stew-pan on the fire : when melted, add two dessertspoonfuls of flour, and stir this over the fire until the roux becomes of a fawn colour; then add a quart of good stock or gravy, carefully working the whole while mixing. Stir this sauce on the fire, and when it boils, put the ducks trussed for boiling into it with a pint of young peas and a bouquet garni. Allow these to stew very gently by the side of the stove for about an hour; when the ducks are done, take them out of the sauce, skim off all the fat, remove the bunch of herbs; and if there is too much sauce, boil it down to its proper consistency, pour the peas and sauce over the ducks, previously dished up, and serve. Braised Ducks a la Provengale These should be braised as in the former recipes, and when dished up, garnished with the following preparation :— Cut two large onions into halves, remove the ends of these, and slice them up. Meanwhile heat a little salad oil in a frying-pan over the fire ; fry the onions in it a light-brown colour, carefully stirring them with the end of an iron skewer to avoid breaking the pieces. When the onions are done, drain them, and afterwards put them into