THE MODERN COOK 20 crumbs of a light-brown colour, and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a little essence of chicken and the juice of half a lemon. Stir the sauce till it boils, and serve. This kind of sauce is appropriate for all small birds, such as wheat-ears, ortolans, ruffs, and reeves, etc. Brown Gravy for Roast Veal Place two ounces of fresh butter in a stew-pan, and knead it with a good tablespoonful of flour. Add half a pint of good brown gravy, half a gill of essence of mushrooms or mushroom catsup, a little grated nutmeg, and mignonette pepper. Stir the sauce on the stove, and keep it gently boiling for ten minutes. If it becomes too thick add a little more gravy, so as to keep it of the same consistency as any other sauce. Finish with a little lemon juice. If there is no gravy or essence of mushrooms at hand, use in their stead half a pint of water, a tablespoonful of glaze, half a gill of mushroom catsup, and a little Indian soy; these will answer nearly the same purpose. Cream Sauce for Roast Neck of Veal Knead two ounces of fresh butter with one ounce of sifted flour. Add a gill of good cream and a gill of white consomme, a little nutmeg and mignonette pepper, half a gill of essence of mushrooms, and a bunch of herbs. Stir the sauce till it boils, and keep it gently boiling for ten minutes; then extract the onion and herbs, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. Egg' Sauce Boil two eggs hard ; when cold, break and pick off their shells, and then cut them up into square dice-like pieces and put them into one pint of good melted butter (see p. 17), with a little pepper and salt. Stir gently on the fire till the sauce is hot, and then serve. Egg Sauce (another method) Boil two eggs hard, take the yolks out, and cut the whites into small shreds and put them into a stew-pan. Place a wire sieve over a clean plate, and rub the yolks through it on to the plate, keeping the vermicelli-like substance which this operation will produce as whole as possible. Pour one pint of good butter sauce on to the shred whites of eggs, adding to it a teaspoonful of English mustard, a little pepper and salt, and lemon juice. Just before serving, warm the sauce, and mix in lightly the vermicellied yolks of eggs, and serve. Sauce Moutarde, or Mustard Sauce Into about half a pint of good butter sauce mix one teaspoonful of prepared English mustard and one of French mustard ; make the sauce hot, and serve. This sauce is seldom used for any other dish than broiled herrings.