THE MODERN COOK 342 water to keep it from burning; add a teaspoonful of salt, and a very small piece of soda or a little moist sugar. When cooked sufficiently, put the spinach into a colander and press the moisture from it, then mb through a wire-sieve. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the flour, and cook a little; put in the spinach and moisten with a little stock or gravy. Stir till it boils, and simmer for at least ten minutes. Lastly add the cream and season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg or cayenne. Poach the eggs very carefully in water contain- ing a little salt and a small quantity of vinegar or lemon juice. Take up and trim the eggs. Dish up the spinach and place the eggs neatly on top of it. Serve hot. Spinach with Cream Prepare the spinach as above, season with a little nutmeg, salt, and two ounces of fresh butter; stir over the fire until quite warm, then add a gill of double cream and a small dessertspoonful of castor sugar ; mix the whole well together over the fire, and dish up the spinach as before directed. Endive with Cream Pick off all the outer leaves of two or three endives, leaving only the white ; trim the roots, and wash the endives in several waters, carefully removing any insects that may be concealed in the inner folds of the leaves. Put a large stew-pan half filled with water on a brisk fire, and when it boils, add the endives, with a dessertspoonful of salt, and allow them to continue boiling fast until they become quite tender; drain them in a colander, then plunge in cold water and squeeze all the moisture from them. Then chop them very finely, and pass them through a coarse wire-sieve. Place them in a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; stir over the fire for ten minutes, add a gill of double cream, a gill of Bechamel or Veloute sauce, and a small dessertspoonful of castor sugar; keep the endives boiling until sufficiently reduced so as to be able to pile them on a dish when sending to table; garnish with crofttons or fleurons, and serve. Braised Endive Trim and wash three to four large heads of endive, blanch them in slightly salted water and drain them on a sieve or colander. Cut each head in two or three portions, four-inch lengths ; tie up each with thin twine. Range them in a well-buttered sauffi-pan, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and moisten with half a pint of rich stock. Cut two to three slices of streaky bacon into strips, fry them a little, and put these on top of the endive. Cover the pan and put it in a hot oven to cook the contents for about thirty minutes. When done, take up, drain the endive, and reduce the liquor or stock, adding to it a little brown or Espagnole sauce, and a small piece of meat glaze. Dress the endive on a vegetable dish, strain over some of the sauce, and serve hot.