CONSOMMES AND CLEAR SOUPS IN GENERAL 67 Consomme Mulligatawny (Clear) 2 quarts clear stock, the legs of a raw fowl, 1 oz. raw ham, ^ small onion, 1 teaspoonful curry powder (mild), 3 tablespoonfuls boiled rice, 1 oz. butter, 1 white of egg. Cut the legs of fowl into pieces, fry in butter until brown, add the curry powder and fry a little, pour off the fat, moisten with the stock, add the onion and raw ham cut into slices, boil up and skim, simmer for twenty minutes, and strain. When cold, clarify the white of egg, add the boiled rice and a handful of chicken meat cut into dice, heat up, and serve. Consomme a la Nantaise Proceed the same as for consomm£ k la Princesse, adding a handful of cooked green peas in place of the pearl barley. Chicken Quenelles for Consomme Mould one dozen or more of very small quenelles of fowl in the following manner -.—Take up a teaspoonful 0/ chicken force-meat, smooth it over with the blade of a small knife, which must be occa- sionally dipped in hot water in order to prevent the quenelle from sticking to it; and with another teaspoon dipped in hot water, scoop out the quenelle from the filled teaspoon, and drop it gently on the bottom of a buttered saute-pan. When this part of the operation is completed, a stew-pan cover is held with the left hand in a slanting direction towards the inner part of the edge of the saut^-pan—with the other hand sufficient boiling water should be poured to poach the quenelles ; then set the saute-pan by the side of the fire to simmer for about ten minutes, when the quenelles will be done. Take them out and lay them upon a clean cloth to drain, after which place them in the soup tureen, and having poured thereon two or three pints of bright consomme of fowl, send to table. Clear Vermicelli Soup Take one ounce of vermicelli, break it small, and blanch it by allowing it to boil three minutes in water; drain it on a sieve, and then put it into a stew-pan with three pints of strong bright consomme of fowl or game, or veal stock, according to taste or circumstances. After allowing the soup thus prepared to boil up on the fire, skim the froth from the surface and set it to continue boiling gently on the corner of the stove till the vermicelli be sufficiently done. Then pour the soup into the tureen, and send to table with some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate, separately, to be handed round to the guests simultaneously with the soup. This should be observed as a general rule in serving up all soups containing Italian pastes in any form. Clear Macaroni Soup Boil two ounces of Naples macaroni in a quart of water, an ounce of fresh butter, a little salt, and mignonette pepper. When the macaroni is done, which will take about half an hour, drain it on a sieve, wash it in clear water, and then drain it upon a napkin, that it