THE MODERN COOK 386 be potted in the same way. When steamed, they should keep good for months. Much, however, depends on the freshness of the butter: should it become rancid, as frequently happens after a few weeks, it will, of course, spoil the flavour of the potted fish. COLD RAISED MEAT AND GAME PIES, Etc. French Veal and Ham Pie Take an ordinary raised pie mould and well butter the inside, and line it about one-third of an inch thick with a good short paste. Take about two pounds of fillet of veal and cut into thin slices. Over each of these spread a little well-flavoured force-meat, and roll lightly into a finger shape. Have ready some thin slices of lean gammon and wrap round the veal. Line the already prepared paste with a layer of force-meat and build up the centre with the shaped veal and ham alternately with slices of hard-boiled eggs, seasoning each layer with pepper, salt, and aromatic spices, and adding plenty of nicely jellied stock. When the mould is full and piled up into a dome shape, cover the top with paste, trim off edges, and neatly close with pincers. Decorate the top with paste and bake in a good solid oven for two to three hours. When done, withdraw and put on one side for about twenty minutes; take a fine skewer and insert right into the pie, gently loosening the meat which will have become coagulated owing to the albumen. When all is nicely separated, fill the mould gradually with some well-flavoured and jellied stock, which should be the same heat as the pie. When added, stand in a cool place until ready for use. Note.—The same procedure should be followed in making a dish pie with the exception of the force-meat lining. The top of a dish pie should be covered with puff paste decorated. Veal and Ham Timbale First lard about one and three-quarters of a pound of veal with lardoons or strips of fat bacon ; cut this in slices across the grain of the meat, and put them on a dish with about half a pound of cooked ham, cut also in slices. Next butter the inside of a plain mould, and line it with short paste (see p. 391) about a quarter of an inch thick ; line the inside of this with a rather thick layer of force- meat (see p. 60), then place the veal and ham in alternate layers, season between each with aromatic spices, pepper and salt, and half a gill of stock or water, fill up the hollow places and cover in the surface with some of the force-meat: place some thin layers of fat bacon over the whole, and cover in the top with some of the paste, previously rolled out to the thickness of the eighth part of an inch. The edges should then be neatly trimmed, and decorated with pastry pincers; decorate the top of the timbale with thin strips of paste, cut out in the form of leaves, etc., neatly arranged according to taste and fancy. Egg over the surface with a paste- brush, make a small hole in the centre of the top of the pie for