22 1 VOL-AU-VENTS AND TOURTES a quarter of an hour; when done, put the sweetbread on a plate to get cold. Prepare also twelve quenelles of fowl, moulded in dessert- spoons, and poached, the same quantity of large button-mushrooms, and the same proportion of double cocks’ combs and round balls of black truffles. Put these into a middle-sized stew-pan, add the calf’s- brains and sweetbread previously cut into neat pieces, and just before dinner-time pour over the whole about half a pint of Allemande sauce. Toss the whole lightly together over the fire, and with this ragout fill a handsome vol-au-vent, cut either square, oval, or round, and serve. VoI=au=vent au Madere See the directions for a pate-chaud au Madere (see p. 220), substituting a vol-au-vent for the shell or crust. Vol=au=vent of Turbot a la Bechamel This entree is generally served when there happens to be any turbot left over from a previous day’s dinner; in which case the fish must be flaked into pieces, and warmed in a rich Bdchamel sauce made with cream ; let the vol-au-vent be filled with this, and sent to table. Vol=au=vent of Salmon a la Ravigote Procure two pounds of fresh salmon, and cut it into rather thick pieces about one inch in diameter; place these in a sauce-pan with three ounces of clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Fry the fish for a few minutes and drain upon a kitchen paper. Next put them into a stew-pan with half a pint of Allemande sauce, add two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, the like quantity of Harvey sauce, a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and a little cayenne; toss the whole together lightly over the fire. Fill a vol-au-vent with the mixture; cover, and serve. Vol=au=vent of Cod a la Creme Procure one and a half to two pounds of cooked cod. Flake into pieces and put into a stew-pan containing half a pint of Bechamel made with cream; to this add one ounce of grated fresh Parmesan cheese, and the juice of a lemon; toss the whole together over the fire with care, so as to avoid breaking the pieces of fish ; when quite hot, fill the vol-au-vent, cover, and serve. Vol=au=vent of Salt Fish a l’Anglaise Choose one and a half to two pounds of salt fish (middle-cut). Soak it in cold water for forty-eight hours previous to cooking, the water being changed every six hours. Put the fish on in cold water, and when it boils remove the scum, and set by the side of the fire to finish boiling. Drain well, and when all the water is absorbed from it, put it into a stew-pan containing some slices of parsnips, and slices of egg boiled hard; add half a pint of Bechamel sauce made with cream; toss the whole gently over the fire until quite hot, then fill a large vol-au-vent with this ragout, cover, and serve.