2g6 THE MODERN COOK Boudins of Chicken a la Perigueux These must be prepared, in the first instance, in the same manner as before : after the centre has been scooped out, the cavity should be filled up with some puree of truffles (see p. 30); then the boudins must be dosed in with a thin coating of the force-meat, and after being rubbed over with a paste-brush, and dipped in some beaten white of egg, should be sprinkled over with some black truffles chopped very fine, poached, and afterwards dished up in a close circle. Pour some Perigueux sauce (see p. 7) under them, and serve. Boudins of Chicken a la Sefton Prepare half a pound of force-meat in the usual way, and before using it, incorporate about two tablespoonfuls of puree of mushrooms (see p. 30); divide the force-meat into three equal parts, roll these, with the aid of a little flour shaken over them, into square or oblong shapes,1 measuring about six inches in length ; place in a deep saute- pan, previously spread with butter, and poach as directed in former recipes; when done, drain, dish up in the form of an angle or in a row side by side; garnish with a white Financibre ragofit (see p. 44), and serve. Boudins of Chicken a la d’Artois Prepare about twelve small oval or oblong flat quenelles of force- meat of fowl, and when they have been poached, drained, trimmed, and scooped out as directed for the quenelles it la Richelieu, fill the cavities with a salpicon2 composed of chopped truffles, mushrooms, and red tongue mixed with a little reduced Allemande sauce; spread a thin layer of force-meat over the surface, bread-crumb the boudins carefully, and place them with this side uppermost in a saute-pan with clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the boudins lightly on both sides, drain upon a sheet of paper, glaze lightly, and then dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a Financiere ragout (see p. 44) in some Madeira sauce (see p. 4), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. Boudins of Chicken a la Soubise First prepare half a pound of force-meat with some fillets of fowl (see p. 59), and when finishing this, instead of sauce, add two tablespoonfuls of puree of onions (see p. 29); form this force-meat into about twelve small oblong quenelles, by rolling them in a little flour: then cut each of these in two lengthwise, spread out the sides of these halves a little with the point of a knife, and then insert between them a small portion of salpicon, prepared as for the 1 There are fancy copper or tin moulds made for this purpose. 2 Salpicon means, literally, anything savoury—such as truffles, tongue, mushrooms, sweetbreads, poultry, or game—that has undergone the process of mincing prepara- tory to being mixed with some Bechamel, Allemande, or Espagnole sauce ; to be afterwards used for such purposes as the above, and also for filling patties.