ENTREES OF QUAILS AND LARKS 311 a fine sieve. Whip up one gill of cream and mix carefully with the above. Decorate the bottom of a well-buttered* timbale or plain charlotte mould with slices of truffle, or sprinkle with finely chopped truffle ; three parts fill it with the above preparation, and steam gently for about an hour. Unmould on to a hot dish, garnish with sections of oranges peeled and freed from pips, and glace cherries. Serve with Rouennaise or any other good brown sauce. Sauce for Mousse of Duck Reduce half a pint of Espagnole sauce with one and a half gills of good gravy (made from the carcase of duck) strained and free from grease, allow to simmer about fifteen minutes, and season with a pinch of pepper ; add one glass of sherry or Madeira, and finish with half an ounce of meat glaze. Pour this over and round the mousse of duck, and serve. ENTRIES OF QUAILS AND LARKS Quails with Stewed Peas Truss four to six quails in the same manner as chickens are trussed for boiling, put them into a sauffi-pan with two ounces of streaky bacon, and a bouquet garni in the centre, cover them with thin layers of fat bacon, moisten with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57), and braise the quails gently for about a quarter of an hour. Prepare about half a pint of stewed peas, and finish them with a little of the mirepoix reduced to a glaze; dish up the quails in a circle with their breasts placed outwards, fill the centre with the stewed peas, place a slice of streaky bacon between each quail, pour some Espagnole sauce, finished with some of the mirepoix, round and over, and serve. Quails a la Perigueux Draw four or more fine fat quails, taking care not to tear the pouch or skin of the throat; fill each with some truffles cut into very small olives, and prepared as for stuffing fowls, etc., it la Perigueux (see p. 296); then truss them in the same manner as fowls for boiling. Next cover the bottom of a saute-pan with thin layers of bacon, and place the quails on it; put a bouquet garni and a clove of garlic in the centre, cover with layers of bacon, and moisten with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57); braise them gently for about a quarter of an hour, and when done, dish up with their backs resting upright against a small ornamental croustade of fried bread fastened to the centre of the dish; place a large white cock’s-comb between each quail, and some double cocks’-combs in the centre; pour some Perigueux sauce (see p. 7) over, and serve. Quails k la Financi&re Remove the bones entirely from four fat quails, reserve the livers, and add to them two ounces of fat livers of fowl, with which prepare some force-meat (see p. 61), and stuff the quails with part