THE MODERN COOK 274 Pork Cutlets a la Sauce Robert, etc. Trim six or eight cutlets neatly, leaving nearly half an inch of fat on to encircle the fillet of the cutlet; place in an earthenware dish with a tablespoonful of salad oil; season with a little salt and pepper, and strew some sprigs of parsley over them ; leave to soak in this for a couple of hours. When about to send to table, broil the cutlets nicely with the gravy in them, glaze and dish up ; pour under some Sauce Robert (see p. 16), and serve. Pork Cutlets a l’Aurore Trim the cutlets neatly as before, season with pepper and salt, and place in a saute-pan with some clarified butter. About twenty minutes before sending to table, fry the cutlets over a brisk fire so as to lightly colour them on both sides, then pour off all the fat and glaze them. Next rub the yolks of two or more hard-boiled eggs equally over all the cutlets, and pass a red-hot salamander over them to colour the yolk of egg a shade darker; then dish up the cutlets with some essence of anchovies (see p. 42) poured under them, and serve. Pork Cutlets a l’lndienne Fry the cutlets brown on both sides, then pour off all the fat, adding about half a pint of Espagnole sauce and a tablespoonful of best “ Empress ” curry paste; put the lid on the saute-pan, and simmer the cutlets over the fire very gently for ten minutes longer; add a small piece of glaze, toss the whole together, dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with boiled rice, pour the sauce over the cutlets, and serve. Pig’s Feet a la St. Menehould For this purpose procure two pairs of feet of bacon hogs, as the feet of porkers are not large enough to be worth dressing for the table. They must first be pickled in common salt brine for about ten days, and then, after being washed, should be braised in ordinary stock, seasoned with carrot, onion, celery, and a bouquet garni; if the feet are large they will require about four hours’ gentle cooking. When done, drain on a dish, cut them in halves, and remove all the large bones, press them into shape with the hands, and put them in the larder to cool. Next season the pieces of pig’s feet with pepper and salt, brush over with clarified butter, then roll in bread-crumbs, and pat these closely on with the blade of a knife; broil on a gridiron over a clear fire, taking care that they are frequently turned until warmed through ; then dish up, and serve with Piquante sauce (see p. 6). Pig’s Feet a la Perigord These should be braised and the bones taken out, and before they become quite cold, filled inside and partially covered with some force-meat of fat livers mixed with some chopped truffles. The feet must next be wrapped up in appropriate-sized pieces of pig’s caul. When about to send to table, broil the feet upon oiled paper placed