ICE PUDDINGS AND FANCY SWEETS 433 Apples and Rice, Plain Cut six or eight apples in halves, take out the cores, peel them, and place them in neat order in a deep stew-pan thickly spread with butter; strew some lemon sugar over, put the lid on, and bake with- out allowing the apples to brown. Prepare six or eight ounces of rice boiled with milk, sugar, a little butter, and some cinnamon; when thoroughly done, work this with a spoon, and then dish up in the form of a dome; arrange the apples neatly upon this, pour some melted apricot jam over the whole, and serve quite hot. Apples a la Portuguaise Prepare half a pint of apple marmalade. Split six or eight apples into halves, peel them and remove the cores, and then place them in a deep stew-pan thickly spread with butter; shake some sugar and grated lemon-peel over, and bake in the oven. Prepare next half a pint of pastry custard (see p. 419), also an ornamented case (see p. 229), which should be partially baked. When these are all ready, nearly fill the case with the apple marmalade, leaving an opening or well in the centre ; then pile the pieces of apples upon the marmalade in the form of a dome, leaving the centre hollow; fill this with the pastry custard. Next whip four whites of eggs quite firm, mix in four ounces of sifted sugar, and use this meringue paste to coat the apples: this is done by first masking over the entire surface of the dome, formed by the apples, with a smooth coating of the prepared whites of eggs, and then with a forcing-bag filled with some of the same, forcing out the design ; then shake some sifted sugar upon it, and bake the meringue a light- fawn colour. Just before sending to table, finish ornamenting it by filling up the interstices of the meringue with alternate strips or layers of red-currant and apple jelly, and also with greengage or apricot jam; these must be arranged so as to show their colours distinctly, which will produce a very pretty effect. This pudding should be served hot. Apples in the Form of a Porcupine Prepare about three-quarters of a pint of apple marmalade; place this in an oval case of raised pie crust previously baked for the purpose; leave a hollow in the centre of the marmalade, fill this up with some pastry custard (see p. 419), and spread some apricot jam over the whole. Next prepare some meringue as directed in the last recipe, and spread this over the surface of the apples, giving it at the same time the form of a porcupine; when this has been effected, about four ounces of sweet almonds, previously shred in strips, must be regularly inserted in close rows, to imitate the quills of the porcupine, and the head and feet should be marked out with angelica cut out in imitation of these. Dredge over some sifted sugar, and bake the meringue a light-fawn colour. Just before sending to table, fill out the circle of the eyes with apple jelly, with a currant inserted