268 THE MODERN COOK ENTREES OF LAMB Shoulder of Lamb Larded a la Financiere Saw off the upper part of the shank-bone of a small shoulder of lamb, then bone it entirely—with the exception of about three inches of the shank or leg bone, which must be left in. Spread the shoulder open, season with pepper and salt, and stuff with a thick layer of veal or fowl force-meat • then with a small trussing-needle and some fine string draw the outer edges of the skinny part of the shoulder into a purse-like form, and tighten the strings so as to give it the appearance of a cushion; take off any superfluous fat and lard it closely. Next strew the bottom of a stew-pan with sliced carrot, onion, celery, and a bunch of herbs; cover this with thin layers of fat bacon, and place the shoulder of lamb upon it; moisten with sufficient good stock to reach up to the larding, place a buttered paper on the top, and cover with the lid; then set it to braise very gently upon a slow fire for about an hour and a half,—with some live embers of charcoal on the lid,—and take care to baste it frequently. When done, remove into a deep stew-pan, and after having strained the liquor, take off all the fat and boil it down to half-glaze, pour this on to the lamb, and put it in the oven to glaze, repeatedly basting the larding till the moisture is absorbed. The shoulder of lamb must then be placed upon a dish, and garnished with a Financiere ragout (see p. 44); put a paper ruffle on the bone, and serve. Neck of Lamb a la Regence Prepare this in exactly the same way as directed for neck of mutton larded en chevaux-de-frise (see p. 184). When braised, glaze it nicely and place upon a dish, garnish with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), and serve. Note.—Neck of lamb, prepared as the foregoing, may also be served with a Macedoine of vegetables or a Jardiniere. £pigramme of Lamb a la Toulouse Trim part of a neck of lamb into about eight cutlets, and place them in a stew-pan with some clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets; and as soon as they are done, glaze them lightly and dish up; fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), pour some Espagnole half-glaze round the entree, and serve. Note.—Epigrammes of lamb may also be garnished with a blanquette, with slices of cucumber, stewed peas, asparagus peas, etc. Breast of Lamb ^ la Villeroi with Peas Braise a breast of lamb in the stock-pot, or in any kind of white stock; when done, take up carefully, remove all the bones, and reserve these for the purpose of making cutlet-bones with; put the breast in press between two dishes, and when cold cut into about six pieces, in the form of an elongated heart or of a cutlet; stick a