<240 THE MODERN COOK Braised Ox=Cheek a la Flamande This is prepared, cut, and dished up as the foregoing; fill the centre with a garnish of Brussels sprouts, pour a little thin Espagnole sauce round the entree, and serve. Braised Ox=Cheek a la Bretonne Prepare and dish up the pieces of ox-cheek as directed in the foregoing recipes; just before sending to table, fill the centre with some puree of potatoes (see p. 28), pour some Bretonne sauce over the pieces of ox-cheek, and serve. Braised Ox=Cheek a la Proven?ale This when dished up must be garnished round the base with a border of ripe tomatoes prepared au gratin (see p. 344); fill the centre of the entree with some Provencale sauce (see p. 8), and serve. Braised Ox=Cheek with Cabbage When the ox-cheek is prepared for braising, as directed on p. 239, about four ounces of German sausage must be added, also four ounces of streaky bacon, and a savoy cabbage, previously cut in halves, parboiled in water, the stalk removed, and afterwards tied up with string. The stew-pan must be covered with a round buttered paper, and set to braise gently for about two hours; as soon as it is done, the ox-cheek should be put in press, and when cold cut into slices and placed in a stew-pan with some half-glaze with the bacon and sausage. The cabbage must be drained in a colander, and then pressed, and afterwards cut out in cork-shaped pieces. The slices of ox-cheek should be dished up in a close circle, alternately placing a slice of ox-cheek with the bacon and sausage, and so on until the whole is used up. Next place the cabbage round in a neat border, pour some Espagnole sauce round the base, and serve. Braised Ox=Cheek a la Jardiniere Braise, cut up, and dish the ox-cheek as directed in the former recipe; fill the centre of the entree with a garnish of vegetables h la Jardiniere (see p. 167), pour some half-glaze or thin Espagnole sauce round the base, and serve Cannelons of Ox=Palates with Poivrade Sauce Prepare and braise three or four ox-palates, and put them in press, as directed (on p. 219), between two dishes until cold. The ox-palates must then be trimmed and split in halves lengthwise; each of these must be again divided in two crosswise; the pieces thus produced should be laid upon a dish, and covered on one side only with some thick cold d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5). The cannelons must then be rolled up in the form of a cartridge, and each dipped in beaten egg (seasoned with a little salt) and after- wards bread-crumbed. Just before sending to table, the cannelons should be fried in some clean hot fat; they must be piled up in the