THE MODERN COOK 2 I 8 deep sauce-pan with two ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, some parsley, and one or two chopped shalots; season with pepper and salt, a little grated nutmeg, and a bunch of herbs. Fry the rabbits on a brisk fire to a light-brown colour; add a glass of French white wine, cover the sauce-pan, and again set on the fire to stew very gently for twenty to thirty minutes. Next add a half pint of brown sauce, a small piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; toss the whole together over the fire, and allow it to boil sharply for two minutes; then dish up the pieces of rabbit neatly in the pie, pour the sauce over them, cover the pie, and bake for one hour. Rabbit Pie a la Sauce Poivrade Cut one or more rabbits into neat joints and place in a sauce-pan with about two ounces of clarified butter, seasoned with pepper and salt, and then set over a brisk fire to be fried brown; next add a glass of Madeira and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut; cover the sauce-pan and place it again upon a moderate fire, that the rabbits may stew very gently for twenty minutes longer; then add half a pint of Poivrade sauce, allow the whole to boil together for three minutes, fill the pate-chaud, cover over as in the former recipe, bake one hour, and send to table. Leveret Pie with Truffles Procure a leveret, or young hare, take off the hind legs and make two pieces of these; detach the shoulders, and cut the loins trans- versely into pieces about two inches long; split the head into halves, trim the whole neatly without waste, and place the joints in a saute- pan with three ounces of clarified butter; season with pepper and salt, and set on a brisk fire to be fried brown. Next add three or four truffles cut into thick slices, and a small piece of glaze; cover, and replace the saute-pan on a slow fire to simmer for twenty minutes longer. Then add the Perigueux sauce, allow the whole to boil together for three minutes, fill the patd-chaud, and cover over. Bake one hour, and send to table. Leveret Pie a la Financiere Prepare in the manner directed in the foregoing recipe, adding instead a rich Financiere ragout (see p. 44); after the whole has boiled together for three minutes, fill the pie, bake one hour, and serve. Godiveau Pie a la Ciboulette To one pound and a half of sifted flour add half a pound of butter, the yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of salt, and about a gill and a half of cold water, then knead the whole into a fine, smooth paste. Take rather more than two-thirds of this, mould it into a round ball with the palm of the hand, and afterwards roll out to the size of a common dinner-plate. Take up the edges of the paste to the depth of two inches, and gather with the fingers into the shape of a