THE MODERN COOK 412 Break the eggs, placing the yolks in a basin, and the whites in an egg-bowl; add the sugar, flour, almonds, and flavouring to the yolks, and work these well together for twenty minutes with a wooden spoon; then mix in the stiffly beaten whites, and with this batter fill as many small oblong or square paper cases as may be required for the purpose. Dredge the surfaces with sugar, and bake in a very moderate oven. These biscuits are adapted for dessert only. Ginger Cakes Ingredients : f lb. flour, 8 oz. fresh butter, 8 oz. castor sugar, | oz. ground ginger, 6 yolks of eggs. Work the whole of the above ingredients together on a pastry board or slab; separate the dough into four parts, roll these out to the thickness of the sixth of an inch, one after the other, and with a cutter, either oval, round, etc., etc., cut out as many.cakes as the paste will yield and place them on a slightly buttered baking-sheet. Brush over the top with water, and dredge with castor sugar. Then bake lightly. Champagne Biscuits Ingredients : 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. fresh butter, 3 eggs, ^ oz. carraway seeds, a pinch salt. Beat the butter in a basin with a wooden spoon until it looks like thick cream; then add the sugar, flour, yolks of eggs, carraway seeds, and salt gradually; lastly fold in the whites of eggs whisked stiffly. Now procure a sheet of stout cartridge-paper, which must be folded in reversed pleats so that, when the paper is opened, it will resemble the pleats of a fan about an inch deep. Fill a forcing-bag with some of the batter, and force out some finger-like biscuits on to the paper pleats about three inches long; dredge these with sifted sugar, and bake a light colour in a very moderate oven. These cakes are fit for dessert only. Orange Biscuits These are made with the same kind of batter as described in the last recipe, omitting the carraway seeds, and substituting instead some orange sugar and one dessertspoonful of candied orange-peel cut into small shreds. Butter some small moulds, fill with the batter, sift sugar over them, and then bake a light colour in a moderate oven. Peach Biscuits Prepare a similar mixture as directed above, and force it out into small round biscuits on a baking-sheet previously buttered and floured. Shake some sugar over the biscuits, and bake them a light colour; when they are done, and removed from the baking- sheet, spread the under parts with some kind of preserved fruit (peach marmalade being most appropriate), and stick two biscuits together, forming as nearly as possible the shape and size of a peach. Mask over with some white icing, which, when dry, must be very