i6o THE MODERN COOK Dolphins of Whitings a la Parisienne Skin two fine fresh whitings, and remove the back-bones without detaching the fillets from the head. Roll out, and bake a circular piece of common paste, nearly the size of the bottom of the dish; fasten to the base a pillar-shaped croustade of fried bread three inches high and one inch in diameter. Prepare some force - meat of whitings, coloured with lobster coral, and mask the heads and fillets of whitings entirely with it, smoothing them over with a knife dipped in hot water; then turn the tail ends of the fish inwardly, down upon the centre of the head—giving to each the form of a heart; place them upright against the croustade, with their heads resting flat upon the foundation of paste, and decorate them over with half-moons of black truffles so as to represent scales of fish; encircle the entree with a band of buttered paper: this must not touch the whitings. Bake the dolphins in a moderately heated oven for about forty minutes; ascertain whether they are done through, and then remove the band of paper; drain off the fat, place them carefully upon a dish, glaze the dolphins with a little lobster coral diluted in the glaze, pour some Supreme sauce (see p. io), finished with an essence made from the bones and trimmings, round, and serve. Note.—Fillets of whitings may also be prepared according to the several directions given for dressing fillets of soles. Fillets of Trout a la Chevaliere Divide the fillets of two small trout into moderate-sized oval fillets; mask over with reduced d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5), brush over with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs mixed with one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; the fillets must be first dipped in beaten egg, and then sprinkled with clarified butter, preparatory to their being bread-crumbed a second time. Fry them a golden colour, drain, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a ragoht of soft roes of mackerel or herrings, pour some Crayfish sauce (see p. 14) round the entree, and serve. Fillets of Trout a la Regence Trim the fillets of one or more trout into neat heart-shaped fillets; place them in a saute-pan with clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and lemon juice; simmer the fillets over the fire for five minutes, turn them over, and when done on both sides, drain, and dish up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a Regent’s ragoftt (see p. 48), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. Epigrammes of Fillets of Trout Trim the fillets as above, egg and bread-crumb one half, in the ordinary manner, and place these in a saute-pan with clarified butter; put the remainder into another sauffl-pan with clarified butter, without being bread-crumbed, and season with pepper and salt. Fry the fillets, drain, and dish up in a close circle, placing one of