VEGETABLE PUREE SOUPS 81 etc., into a colander, and then put the whole into the stew-pan on the fire to boil fast; when they are done, drain them again in a colander, let some cold water run over them for the purpose of retaining their greenness; and when well drained put them into a middle-sized stew-pan with a quart of good Veloute sauce (see p. 3), a teaspoonful of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg and salt. Stir the whole on a brisk fire until it has boiled about three jninutes, when it must be passed through a tammy-cloth or sieve on to a large dish, and, after being removed into a sauce-pan, should be placed on the ice in the larder to keep cool in order that it may the better retain its green colour and delicate flavour. Ten minutes before serving up the soup to table stir it on a brisk fire until it is nearly boiling, remove it from the stove, and, having mixed in with it a pat of butter and a small piece of light-coloured glaze, send to table with a plate of fried bread crofitons. Puree of Asparagus a la St. George Prepare a puree similar to the foregoing ; place in the soup-tureen about eighteen very small quenelles of fowl, and about three ounces of small fillets or shreds of red tongue, cut in the same lengths and thickness as vegetables for Julienne soup ; then with a silver spoon stir the above about gently in the tureen, so as to mix the ingredients with the puree (which must be poured on to them quite hot), and send to table. Bonne Femme Soup Trim and wash three or four cabbage-lettuces, and having also . well washed a handful of sorrel, shred these as you would do if they were intended for Julienne soup. Put two ounces of butter into a stew-pan, and having melted it on the fire, add the lettuces and sorrel, and with a wooden spoon stir them over the fire until they are stewed, which will require about ten minutes; then add three pints of good strong chicken consomme, and having allowed the soup to boil gently by the side of the fire for about half an hour, take it off in order that it may cool a little, and mix in with it a liaison or binding of two yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, a small pat of fresh butter, and a pinch of sugar to rectify the acidity of the sorrel. Stir the soup quickly on the fire in order to set the liaison in it, taking care that it does not curdle; add a small piece of glaze, pour the soup into the tureen upon some duchess’ crusts, and serve. Soup a la Hollandaise Peel two carrots, and an equal number of turnips and one small cucumber; scoop these out into the shape of small olives, and, after blanching them, boil them in three pints of good strong veal stock (seep. 52); when the vegetables are done, remove the soup from the fire, and mix in with it a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, a pat of butter, and a little sugar; set the liaison by stirring the soup over the fire, then pour it into the soup-tureen, containing about half a gill of young peas boiled green, and an equal proportion of French beans cut into diamonds, and serve. G