FRITTERS 427 frying batter. When they are fried crisp, sift over some castor sugar ; and, when dished up, pour some apricot jam (diluted with a little orange-flower water) round, and serve. Portuguese Fritters Ingredients : 3 oz. Carolina rice, 1 oz. sugar, 1 pint milk, 1 small piece cinnamon, 2 tablespoonfuls orange marmalade, 2 eggs. Thoroughly pick and wash the rice, and then put it in a con- venient sized stew-pan with the sugar, milk, and cinnamon ; leave to simmer very gently by the side of a slow fire until the whole of the milk is absorbed by the rice. Next add the marmalade and the yolks of the eggs; stir quickly until the eggs set firm in the mixture; turn out upon a clean dish or baking-sheet, and spread equally to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. When this has become cold, cut out in oblong shapes, dip each in light frying batter, sprinkle with castor sugar mixed with ground cinnamon, and dish up on a napkin. Diavolini Ingredients : 2J oz. ground rice, x oz. sugar, 1 pt. milk, 1 teaspoonful essence of ginger, 2 eggs, a few pieces preserved ginger. Mix the rice, sugar, and milk together in a stew-pan, and stir over the fire until it thickens. The rice must then be removed from the fire, and the preserved ginger cut into very small dice-like shapes, the essence of ginger, and the yolks of eggs be added. Stir the whole over a quick fire until the eggs are cooked, and then finish the fritters in the usual way. Banana Fritters (Sweet) Remove the skin from six not overripe bananas, cut each in half crossways, and then divide in halves lengthways. Put the bananas thus prepared into a pie-dish, sprinkle with castor sugar, a little ground cinnamon, and a liqueur - glass of kirsch or maraschino. Allow to stand for about fifteen minutes. Have ready some frying batter. Coat each piece of banana with batter and drop into very hot frying fat. When of a golden colour and crisp, take up and drain the fritters on a cloth or paper. Dish up, dredge with fine sugar, and serve hot. German Fritters Divide six ounces of brioche paste into ten or twelve equal parts ; mould these into small finger shapes, and bake them a golden colour. Let them steep for a few hours in cream flavoured with vanilla, after which they must be egged and bread-crumbed. About twenty minutes before the fritters are served, fry them in hot lard, sprinkle over some vanilla sugar, and send to table quite hot.