PARTRIDGES 329 ragout of crayfish-tails tossed in a little partridge glaze; pour some Allemande sauce mixed with some fumet of partridges round, and serve. Fillets of Partridges a 1’Ancienne Wrap three young partridges in a double sheet of thickly-buttered paper, and roast them before a brisk fire or in the oven for about half an hour; then put them on a dish, and leave to cool without removing the paper. Cut the fillets out of the partridges, remove the skins, and trim neatly without waste ; put the fillets in a stew-pan with a little half-glaze made with the carcases. Make some pur^e with the meat from the legs, and use the gravy that runs from the birds after roasting to moisten with. Warm the fillets without boiling, dish up with a heart-shaped crofiton of fried bread between each, fill the centre with the puree, pour some Salmi sauce (see p. 4) over the entree, and serve. Fillets of Partridges a la Parisienne Trim the fillets of a brace of young partridges, and mask them over with a coating of Allemande sauce, dip them in beaten egg and bread-crumb them; then sprinkle over with clarified butter, and bread-crumb again; pat them gently into shape, and place in circular order in a stew-pan with some clarified butter. Fry the fillets a golden colour, drain, and glaze them slightly, dish up with a circular slice of red tongue between each; fill the centre with some Parisian ragout (see p. 46), pour some of the sauce round, and serve. Scallops of Partridges with Truffles Fillet one or more partridges, remove the sinews from the fillets and place in a stew-pan with some clarified butter; season with a little salt, and simmer in the oven or over the fire for five minutes; then turn them over, and when done on both sides, drain, and cut them into scallops; place these in a stew-pan with two ounces of truffles (previously simmered with a small piece of butter and glaze), and to these add some Espagnole sauce worked with a fumet made from the carcases. Warm the scallops without boiling, dish them up in the form of a dome, and garnish with some croquettes made with the legs. Scallops of Partridges in Cases Fillet one or more young partridges, cut the fillets into small scallops, and place them neatly in a large stew-pan with two small pats of butter, merely melted in the stew-pan without being clarified; season with mignonette pepper, salt, and nutmeg, chopped mush- rooms, parsley, truffles, and two shalots; simmer the scallops briskly over the fire, and when done, add one pint of Espagnole sauce worked with some fumet or extract (made from the carcases), and the juice of half a lemon ; toss the whole together over the fire for a few minutes, and fill eight or ten small plaited circular or heart- shaped paper cases that have been oiled and baked in the oven for five minutes to make the paper firmer. Place the cases upon a baking-sheet lined with clean paper, and lay a thin circular layer of