THE MODERN COOK 246 Mutton Cutlets with Endive Puree These are prepared and finished in the same manner as the cutlets a la Minute ; and when they are dished up, the centre of the entree must be filled with a puree of endive (see p. 28). Note.—Cutlets dressed in this way may be served with purees of vegetables of all sorts. Mutton Cutlets a la Nivernaise Trim and prepare the cutlets as in the foregoing recipes, and when they have been fried brown, pour off the fat and add a garnish of carrots and turnips a la Nivernaise (see p. 33) ; allow the whole to simmer gently on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, dish up the cutlets and fill the centre with vegetables, pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. Another Method The cutlets, when fried, may be glazed, then dished up, and the garnish a la Nivernaise placed in the centre. The advantage of the first method is that the cutlets partake of the flavour of the vegetables by simmering with them. Mutton Cutlets with New Potatoes These are prepared in the same way as cutlets a la Minute, and when dished up, must be garnished with new potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel (see p. 353). Mutton cutlets prepared in the same manner may be garnished with any of the following vegetable garnishes, viz. Jardiniere, Macedoine, asparagus peas, stewed peas, Brussels sprouts, etc. Breaded Mutton Cutlets with Shalot Gravy Trim the cutlets in the usual manner, and season them with pepper and salt; then egg them slightly over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg; sprinkle each cutlet with some fine bread- crumbs ; then dip them separately in some clarified butter, and bread-crumb them over once more ; flatten them into shape with the blade of a knife, and broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire to a light-brown colour; then glaze and dish up, and serve with plain or shalot gravy. These cutlets may also be served with any of the sauces directed to be used for plain broiled cutlets. Mutton Cutlets with Mushroom Puree Bread-crumb the cutlets as in the foregoing recipe; then place them in a stew-pan with a little clarified butter, fry over a brisk fire a golden colour, and when done remove and glaze them ; dish up, fill the centre with a white puree of mushrooms (see p. 30), pour some half-glaze round the entree, and serve. Mutton Cutlets with Cucumber Prepare these in the same way as the foregoing, and garnish them, when dished up, with some cut slices of cucumbers (see p. 33).