THE MODERN COOK 182 Braised Leg of Mutton Garnished with Vegetables Trim a small leg of mutton, lard it with fillets of bacon cut a quarter of an inch square and about three inches long; place the leg of mutton in an oval braising-pan with two carrots, a stick of celery, a couple of onions, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a quart of fresh stock, cover with an oval buttered paper, and put on the lid; then set the braising-pan on the fire to boil gently for three hours, from time to time moistening the mutton with its liquor. When done, take it up with a little of its own liquor, and keep hot. Strain off the braise, remove the fat, clarify it in the usual manner, and when strained, reduce it to the consistency of half-glaze, and set it aside in a small bain-marie. Then glaze the leg of mutton nicely, and place it on its dish • garnish it round with alternate groups of cooked young carrots and turnips cut into shapes for the purpose, and afterwards boiled down in their own glaze, also some glazed young onions; pour the clarified essence under the leg of mutton, put the ruffle on the bone, and send to table. Braised Leg of Mutton a la Provengale Bone a small leg of mutton, commencing at the thigh-bone, by detaching the meat from round it with a knife, and throwing it back right up to the joint of the leg-bone; then cut the sinewy ligatures, and remove the thigh-bone entirely; saw off the shank and scrape the end of the bone remaining in the leg as in preparing a cutlet. Then lard the interior with seasoned lardoons or fillets of fat bacon, fill with the Provengale stuffing (described below), and sew the hollow opening whence the bone has been extracted with thin string; place the leg of mutton in a braising-pan with two carrots, two turnips, celery, six cloves, two blades of mace, a bunch of herbs, and a clove of garlic; moisten with a quart of good fresh stock, cover with an oval of buttered paper and the lid; set the pan on the stove to boil, and allow it to continue gently simmering for about three hours, taking care to moisten it frequently with its own liquor. When it is done, take it up and keep warm. Strain the remainder of the liquor and remove all the fat, clarify it, strain the essence and reduce it to half-glaze, and add it to some Gasconne sauce (see p. 17). Then dish up the mutton, garnish it round with tomatoes or mushrooms dressed au gratin (see p. 344), pour the Gasconne sauce under the remove, and send to table.—The Provengale stuffing for the leg of mutton is to be made as follows:— Chop four ounces of mushrooms very fine, and put them into a small stew-pan ; to these add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and shalot, with an equal quantity of chopped lean and fat ham, and a little grated lemon peel; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; set the whole on the fire and stir it with a wooden spoon for five minutes that the watery parts of the mushrooms may evaporate; add the yolks of one or two eggs, and after setting the yolks of eggs in the fine herbs by stirring the whole on the fire, add them to four ounces of quenelle force-meat made with the fillets of a partridge, mix these well together, and use the stuffing as directed above.