68 THE MODERN COOK may be cut into pieces an inch long. Then put it into a sauce-pan with two quarts of veal stock, or consomme of fowl or of game, accord- ing to circumstances ; let it boil ten minutes longer, and serve. Italian Paste Soup Take two ounces of Italian paste, blanch or parboil it first, and afterwards boil it in two quarts of bright strong consomme, as directed for vermicelli soup, and send to table. Lasagnes Soup Lasagnes are a kind of Italian paste resembling ribbons, and must be treated in exactly the same way as when using macaroni for soup, excepting that they do not require so much boiling. Consomme with Rice Take two ounces of Carolina rice well picked and washed, blanch or parboil it for ten minutes, drain the water off; and after adding two quarts of good clear consomme, boil it gently by the side of the fire till the grains of the rice begin to feather or separate, when it will be ready to send to table. Observe that broths and consommes should be always stronger when used for soups containing Italian pastes of any kind, rice, or barley, as these farinaceous substances decrease the flavour and apparent strength of soups, and render them less acceptable to the palate of the epicure—unless counteracted by increasing the strength of the consomme. Clear Rice Soup with Asparagus Points This soup is prepared in the same way as the foregoing—with the addition of a gill of asparagus points boiled green and thrown into the soup just before sending to table. Chicken and Rice Soup Truss, boil, and cut into small pieces the breast of a spring chicken; the skin should be removed, and the pieces neatly trimmed and placed in the soup tureen, together with two quarts of clear rice soup, Avhich should be made with chicken broth or consomme of a light colour. The seasoning of this soup must be light. Cock = a=Leekie Soup Take one small fowl, which truss, boil, and cut up as for the foregoing soup. Add two quarts of veal stock, and in this boil (after having first parboiled them in water) the white part of a small bundle of leeks cut into lengths of about an inch, and these again cut lengthways into four. When the leeks have been boiled thoroughly soft in the broth, add the pieces of fowl; and after allowing the whole to boil ten minutes longer, send to table. Note.—This kind of soup is objected to by many who dislike the flavour of leeks j it is considered, however, to be a fine restorative, and is especially recommended to the notice of sportsmen, after a hard day’s riding with the hounds, or fagging over the moors.