292 THE MODERN COOK with a little butter; then proceed to fill up the centre of these with some quenelle force-meat of fowl mixed with some chopped and blanched parsley to colour it green; smooth the surfaces over, place a circular piece of buttered paper upon them, and poach them by pouring some boiling consomme in at the side of the stew-pan, so as not to disturb the rings. Let them simmer gently by the side of the fire for about ten minutes, then carefully drain, lightly glaze, and use as directed above. Fill the centre of the entree with prepared slices of cucumber (see p. 33), previously tossed in some of the sauce; mask the fillets, without covering the cucumber, with some Supreme sauce, and serve. Suprgme of Fowl a la Perigord Prepare this according to the directions for Supreme a l’Ecarlate (see p. 290); the smaller fillets, however, must be decorated with black truffle. When about to send to table, dish up as usual in a close circle round the base of a fried ornamental croustade of bread, glued to the dish by means of a little flour paste; pour some Supreme sauce (see p. 10) over the plain fillets, and round the base of the entree, and serve. Fillets of Fowl a l’lndienne Trim the fillets of one or more fowls, and place them in a saute- pan with some clarified butter and a few thin slices of raw ham (previously soaked in water) cut in the shape and size of the fillets. When about to send to table, fry the fillets and the ham a light brown, pour off all the fat, then add a teaspoonful of glaze, a pat of fresh butter, the juice of half a lemon, and a little grated nutmeg; toss the whole together gently over the fire until mixed; dish them up, alternately placing a fillet, a piece of ham, and then a fried crouton of bread of the same shape. Pour three-quarters of a pint of Espagnole sauce (see p. 3) into the saute-pan containing the fillets and ham, simmer this over the fire for five minutes, then pour it over the entree, and serve. Fillets of Fowl a la Marechale Trim the fillets of one or more fowls; make a slight incision down the centre of each fillet so as to hollow it out a little; then chop a truffle, one shalot, and a little parsley very finely, and simmer these for five minutes in a small stew-pan with a bit of butter, pepper and salt, nutmeg, and a small piece of glaze, add the yolk of an egg, and with this preparation fill the hollow made in the fillets, and then mask them over on both sides with a little stiffly-reduced Allemande sauce (see p. 3). When this has become firmly set by cooling, bread-crumb the fillets twice over, having once after dipped them in beaten egg, and again after they have been sprinkled over with clarified butter; pat them gently into shape with the blade of a knife, and put on one side. Twenty minutes before sending to table, cover the gridiron with a piece of oiled paper, place the fillets upon this, and broil them (on both sides) over a clear fire a golden