88 THE MODERN COOK without allowing it to boil, finish it by mixing in with it one ounce of lobster coral butter, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon. Pour the soup into the tureen containing the prawns’ tails with one dozen small quenelles of trout, and serve. FISH SOUPS AND WATER SOUCHETS IN GENERAL Fish Consomme Scale and skin a tail-piece of salmon about two pounds, cut it into slices, and put in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, one sliced onion, one sliced carrot, and a bouquet of herbs. Fry these over a quick fire for ten minutes, drain off the fat, and add two quarts of water; bring it to the boil, skim, and let it cook gently for about an hour; add a glass of claret or sherry wine. Strain and cool the stock, and clarify it with two whites of eggs and their shells crushed, season with salt, pepper, and aromatics. Strain through a cloth, reheat, and add a handful of Royal custard or vegetable macedoine. The remainder of salmon should be used up for Croquettes, Bouchees, or Omelet. Haddock Cream Soup Place a large smoked haddock (cut side up) in a baking tin, cover it with two to three pats of butter, moisten with half a pint of milk, and cook it in the oven for about twenty minutes. Melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, stir in one and a half ounces of flour, and cook a little whilst stirring; then pour on the liquor from the cooked fish, also strain gradually one pint of milk and one quart of water; stir till it boils, add the haddock free from skin and bone, and let all simmer gently for about thirty minutes. Season to taste with very little salt, nutmeg, and pepper; strain, and rub through a fine sieve. Return to the stew-pan; add a little stock or more milk, boil up, add a tablespoonful of crushed tapioca, and, lastly, a gill of cream. The soup is then ready to serve. Oyster Soup a la Plessy Take two dozen oysters. Blanch or scald these by boiling them for a few minutes on the fire, drain them and save the liquor ; wash the oysters, and pull off the beards and tendons, leaving only the delicate fat part of the oysters, which put into a basin with their liquor. Next prepare one dozen quenelles from the fillets of one small whiting ; put the bones and trimmings into a small stew-pan with two or three small flounders, an eel cut into pieces, some parsley, a carrot, one stick of celery, a sprig of thyme, two blades of mace, and a few peppercorns. To these add a glass of French white wine and the liquor of the oysters ; set the whole to boil briskly for ten minutes, then add two whole anchovies (washed for the purpose) and