28 THE MODERN COOK few minutes, turn it out on to a large hair-sieve, there to remain until the water has run off. Next cut one large onion into thin slices, place in a stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, and put them to fry to a light colour on the fire, after which add a good teaspoonful of flour, some grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of sugar, a pinch of mignonette pepper, and salt; moisten with a gill of sauce, either white or brown, then add the sorrel, prepared as above directed, and reduce the puree over a brisk fire, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon. When the sorrel is sufficiently reduced, rub it instantly through a tammy and place it in a small stew-pan. Previously to using the puree, make it hot; add half an ounce of butter and a little piece of glaze. Puree of Endive Trim off all the outside leaves of three or four full white-heart endives; wash them thoroughly, and carefully remove all insects, etc. Throw the endives into a stew-pan of boiling water, and after allowing them to remain boiling for the space of twenty minutes, immerse them in cold water. When thus cool, squeeze each endive separately, entirely extracting the water; then cut off the root end from each endive, and after first chopping the leafy portion place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a little nutmeg, sugar, and salt. Stir the whole over the fire with a wooden spoon for five minutes, moisten with half a pint of white stock, then cover with a round of buttered paper; place the lid on the stew-pan, and set it on a slow fire to continue very gently simmering for half an hour. Next add a gill of white sauce and a tablespoonful of cream, and reduce the puree quickly on a brisk fire. As soon as it is reduced to its proper consistency, instantly remove it into a small stew-pan for use. This kind of purde is usually rubbed through a coarse hair-sieve in preference to a tammy. Puree of Chestnuts Slit the husks of one pound of chestnuts and place them in a stew-pan with enough water to cover. Put the lid on the stew-pan and set it on a slow fire, taking care now and then to toss up the chestnuts so that they may get an equal degree of heat. In about twenty minutes the husks will easily peel off, and should then be removed. Put the chestnuts into a clean stew-pan with .half a pint of good consomme, and cover the pan. Set them to simmer gently on the corner of the stove. When they are done, pound them in a mortar, put them into a sautd-pan, add a little sugar, nutmeg, and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Reduce the pur£e, and rub it through a tammy on to a dish. Remove it into a small stew-pan, and just before using it, make it hot, mix in half an ounce of butter and a small piece of glaze. Puree of Potatoes Peel and wash three or four potatoes, cut them into slices, and place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, some mignonette pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg; moisten with half a pint of white