CONSOMMES AND CLEAR SOUPS IN GENERAL 65 Consomme a la Napoleon 2 quarts consomme, 6 oz. ravioli paste (see p. 103), 1 oz. foie-gras trimmings, 2 oz. cold chicken, veal, or rabbit, 1 tablespoonful Bechamel sauce, 1 saltspoonful chopped lemon rind, | teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Roll out the paste very thinly, stamp out some rounds with ij-inch cutter. Chop up the meat (freed from skin and gristle), lemon rind, and foie-gras very finely; mix with the parsley. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with the sauce, and mix well. Wet the edges of the rounds of paste, put rather more than half a teaspoonful in the centre of each ; close up by pressing the edges well together, giving them the shape of triangular cocked hats. This done, drop them into boiling salted water or white stock ; boil from ten to fifteen minutes, drain, and put in a soup tureen; pour into this the consomme (previously heated), and serve. Consomme a la Nemours 2 quarts good stock (clarified), 1 oz. crushed tapioca, 2 carrots, \ gill Bechamel sauce, 3 eggs, \ oz. butter, seasoning. Clarify the stock in the usual manner and strain it carefully. Add the tapioca (previously soaked in water) when boiling, cook gently for fifteen minutes, and season to taste. Wash the carrots, and scrape finely the red part into a stew-pan containing the butter. Cook it while stirring for five minutes, add the white sauce (Bdchamel) and a little stock, and simmer till tender, then rub through a fine sieve. Incorporate the eggs, well beaten, season to taste, strain into a buttered mould, and poach till firm. Unmould, cut into neat cubes or diamond shapes, and put into the prepared consommA Reheat, and serve. Consomme a la Nesselrode 2 quarts consomme, 1 doz. chestnuts, 3 yolks of eggs, | gill game stock, 1 glass Madeira wine, pepper and salt. Skin the chestnuts, and boil in water or milk until tender; rub through a sieve, mix with the yolk of egg and game stock, season with pepper and salt, and fill into a number of well-buttered olive- shaped moulds; poach them in the oven for ten minutes, let them cool a little, then turn out and place them in a soup tureen; add the wine to the consomme, season to taste, let it boil for a few minutes, and pour gently into the tureen. It is then ready for serving. Consomme a la Richelieu 2 quarts game consomm£, 2 small fillets of cooked game, 2 carrots (small), 1 oz. tapioca de Bresil, 1 gill royal custard cut into cubes, seasoning. Remove the skin from the fillets of cooked game, and cut the meat into fine shreds or Julienne strips. Scoop out some little ball shapes from the carrots, and cook them in salted water till tender. Cook the tapioca in boiling water or consomme for about fifteen F