3l6 THE MODERN COOK nutmeg, and six or eight mushrooms; toss these over the fire for five minutes, then add a glass of French white wine (Chablis or Sauterne), and leave to boil quickly until reduced to half the quantity; next add a pint of Veloute sauce (see p. 3), simmer the whole together gently for ten minutes longer, and finish by incorporating a liaison of two yolks of eggs, the juice of half a lemon, and a dessertspoonful of chopped parboiled parsley; dish up the pieces of rabbit in a pyramidal form, garnish with the onions, etc., placed in groups round the dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Rabbit a la Perig-ueux Cut the rabbit up, and fry it with a little butter to a light-brown colour: pour off the fat, add a pint of Pdrigueux sauce (see p. 7), two ounces of truffles cut into slices, and a dozen small quenelles of rabbit, and simmer the whole together over the fire for five minutes; dish up with croutons round, garnish with the ragout, pour the sauce over, and serve. Fillets of Rabbit a la Toulouse Fillet two small rabbits; trim the fillets and lard two-thirds of each—beginning at the thick end ; then place them in a circular rowr, all curved in the same direction, in a casserole, the bottom of which should be lined with thin layers of fat bacon. About twenty minutes before sending to table, pour a little strong consomme or thin half- glaze over the fillets, place a round piece of buttered paper upon them, and set them in the oven to simmer for ten minutes ; then remove the paper, dry the larding, and glaze it, frequently basting the fillets with their own glaze; drain, trim, and dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), pour some of the sauce round, glaze the larding of the fillets, and serve. Note.—Fillets of rabbits larded may also be garnished with either a ragofit h la Parisienne or h la Financihre, with small quenelles, slices of truffles, mushrooms, or cucumbers, and writh any kind of dressed vegetables or purees. Fillets of Rabbit a la Marechale Fillet two small rabbits, slightly flatten, and then trim the fillets, making an incision round the interior part of them ; fill this with some d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5); mask over with a thin coating of Allemande sauce, and when this has become firmly set by cooling, bread-crumb twice—once after dipping in beaten egg, and then after sprinkling over with clarified butter; broil the fillets over a clear fire, with a sheet of oiled paper placed upon the gridiron ; when browned on both sides, dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with slices of the kidneys and smaller fillets; glaze the fillets, pour some bright Espagnole sauce, worked with essence made from the carcases, round, and serve. Note.—These fillets may also be served with some bright aspic, with cucumbers, a puree of celery, or White Italian sauce.