THE MODERN COOK 44 Financi^re Ragout Place in a stew-pan a similar ragofit to the foregoing, with one dozen or so of small quenelles, and add half a pint of well-finished Financiere sauce; allow the whole to boil slightly on the fire. Use this ragoilt for garnishing the remove or entree, as the case may be. Calf’s Head Ragout a la Tortue Put one dozen or more fine white cocks’ combs into a bain-marie or stew-pan, a similar quantity of cocks’ kernels, small truffles, button mushrooms, quenelles, and green gherkins, cut into the shape of olives; to these add a good half pint of Turtle sauce (see p. 4) for the purpose, and set the whole on the fire to boil for a minute or two, and serve. Chipolata Ragout Twist three or four pork sausages into small round balls, separate these, fry them, and when they are cold, trim and put them into a bain-marie containing a dozen cocks’ combs and kernels, button mushrooms, truffles, quenelles, three or four carrots, and three or four turnips trimmed in the shape of olives, and boiled down in their own glaze, also a few round balls of braised streaky bacon, and an equal proportion of chestnuts, peeled and boiled in consomme; add a good half pint of Madeira sauce (see p. 4), half a gill of essence of truffles and mushrooms; then set the ragout on the fire to boil for two minutes, and serve. Note.—The above is the simplest mode for preparing this ragout. It is far better, however, that the whole of the ingredients of which this very rich and popular ragout is composed should be kept separ- ately in small-stew-pans, and be placed alternately in groups about the dish they are meant to garnish and ornament; then the boiling sauce should be poured over the turkey, capon, or chickens when ready to serve. Strasbourg Ragout of Fat Livers Braise a fat liver in half a pint of mirepoix (see p. 57), take it out to cool, cut it into scallops and trim them neatly; put them into a small stew-pan with some of the mirepoix freed from every particle of fat, add an equal quantity of scalloped truffles, and just before using these, set them on the stove and boil them down to a glaze; add half a pint of Financihre sauce, and serve. Perigueux Ragotit Prepare one dozen scallops of fat livers and truffles, as for the foregoing ragofit: to these add equal quantities of small quenelles, cocks’ combs and kernels, and button mushrooms; then add half a pint of Perigueux sauce (see p. 7), and boil the whole together for two or three minutes. Matelote Ragout Peel and blanch a dozen or so of button onions; fry them to a light-brown colour over a slow fire; when done, drain them on to a