THE MODERN COOK 408 The essence of orange (or any other kind of flavour) should now be added, also the eggs one at a time. This paste should now be put into a forcing-bag with a plain pipe and forced out on a greased baking-sheet in small round balls, the size of a pigeon’s egg, egged over with a paste-brush, some chopped almonds strewn upon them, with some sifted sugar shaken over, and then baked a very light colour. These cakes may be served plain, or garnished inside with cream or some kind of preserve. Duchess Loaves These are made of the same kind of paste as the Petits-Choux; this must be put out on the pastry slab in small pieces about the size of a pigeon’s egg, then rolled out with a little flour in the form of a finger and placed in rows upon a greased baking-sheet, then egged over and baked a light colour. Just before they are quite done, shake some finely sifted sugar over them, put them back again in the oven until the sugar is nearly melted, and then pass a red-hot salamander over them to give them a bright glossy appearance; the loaves must then be immediately withdrawn from the oven, and allowed to cool. Just before sending to table, make an incision down the sides, and fill the interior with apricot jam; then dish up in a pyramidal form. Petits=Choux with Caramel Prepare these as above, except that they must be rolled and baked in the form of round balls, which, when done, should be about the size of an egg. Then mix together about two ounces of chopped pistachios, a few cleaned currants, and an equal proportion of castor sugar on a plate; boil about four ounces of sugar in a very little water to form a syrup. Dip each petit-choux slightly in this, then gently roll in the prepared pistachios, etc., so as to mask the surface. Let them cool before dishing up. Profitrolles Prepare a dozen petits-choux as in the first part of the previous recipe; when they are baked and have become cold, cut a circular piece from the top of each, about the size of a shilling • then fill them with some custard, prepared as follows :—Put the yolks of four eggs into a small stew-pan with two ounces of castor sugar, two ounces of grated chocolate, and a very little salt; mix these well together with half a pint of cream or milk, add a small pat of butter, then stir the whole over the fire and allow it to cook very gently for about ten minutes; this custard should now be passed through a tammy or fine strainer into a basin, and when it has become cold, three tablespoonfuls of whipped cream should be added; fill the petits-choux, and serve. This custard may also be flavoured with lemon, orange, vanilla, orange flower, or any kind of liqueur; in which case the chocolate must be omitted.