THE MODERN COOK 284 and a similar proportion of flour; mix together and moisten with a pint of good stock or gravy; stir the sauce over the fire and keep it boiling for about twenty minutes, then rub it through a hair-sieve or tammy, and afterwards pour it over the pieces of chicken. Leave the curry to simmer gently over a slow fire until the pieces of chicken become tender, and then dish up as usual. Chicken and Tongue Cutlets a la Reine About 8 oz. raw chicken, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 yolk of egg, 2 oz. panade, 6 slices of cooked ox-tongue, 6 cutlet-shaped croutons of fried bread, meat glaze, 6 preserved mushrooms, demi-glace sauce, pepper and salt, butter. Prepare a force-meat by pounding the chicken in a mortar, add the cream, panade, and yolk of egg, and season to taste. Butter six cutlet moulds. Shape each slice of tongue precisely the same size as cutlets, place each slice on a crouton of bread. Chop the trimmings of tongue rather finely, put them with the force-meat, pound again, and rub the whole through a sieve. Chop the mushrooms as finely as possible, and mix with the farce. Fill the moulds with this, and steam them in the oven. When done, turn on to the prepared crofitons and tongue, place on a baking-sheet, glaze them over, and put in the oven for a few seconds. Dish up in a circle, sauce over with demi-glace, and serve. Fritot of Chicken with Tomato Sauce The chicken must be cut up as for a fricassee and the pieces neatly trimmed; then place them in a basin with some slices of onion, parsley, bay leaf, and thyme, mignonette pepper and a little salt, three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and the juice of half a lemon ; steep them in this for several hours; and when about to send to table, drain the pieces of chicken, shake some flour over them so as as to entirely coat the pieces, form them into shape, drop into hot fat, and fry a golden colour. When done, drain the pieces of chicken on paper, and glaze over slightly; dish up in a pyramidal form, garnish with a border of fried eggs and croutons of bread placed alternately; pour some Tomato or Poivrade sauce round the fritot, and serve. Capilotade or Rechauffe of Chicken or Fowl & l’ltalienne This entree is generally served when there happens to be any cold roast fowl left over. This should be cut up into small joints trimmed neatly, and placed in a stew-pan containing half a pint of Italian sauce (see p. 5) and a few mushrooms and truffles ; when about to send to table, allow the capilotade to simmer gently on a slow fire until the pieces of chicken have become thoroughly impregnated with the sauce. Then dish up, and garnish round with croutons of bread ; pour the sauce over, and serve. Chicken a la Toscane Prepare the chicken in the first instance as for a fritot, and after the pieces have been sufficiently steeped, drain them upon a cloth to absorb all the moisture, rub each piece over separately with beaten egg,