THE MODERN COOK 438 Swan of Savoy Biscuit a la Chantilly Prepare one pint of Savoy cake batter (see p. 401), and bake it in a plain oval mould—or, failing this, in a deep oblong paper case; when it is done, and has become quite cold, shape it with a sharp knife in the rough outline of the body of a swan ; the wings, tail- piece, and the neck and head must be made of office-paste (see p. 392); the bill should be dipped in caramel, and the eyes may be formed with a little of the same, with a currant stuck in the centre for the pupil. Just before sending the swan to table, stick the neck into the breast-part, insert the wing-pieces in the sides, and the fan- like piece into the tail-part; cover the bird entirely with a thick coating of whipped cream ; smooth this over with tbe blade of a knife, and then, with the point of a small knife, imitate the feathers about the wings, tail, and body. Place some spun sugar round the swan—in imitation of waves—and put a border of petits-choux, glazed with rough sugar and pistachios, round the base, and serve. Glazed Ham of Savoy Cake Bake one pint of Savoy cake batter in an oblong paper case; when this has become cold, shape it with a sharp knife in the form of a nicely trimmed ham, and hollow it out underneath. That part of the rind which is usually left on the knuckle as an ornament must be imitated by spreading a layer of chocolate icing over it, in the form of a scallop-shell; the remaining part of the surface of the ham should be masked with a coating of diluted bright apricot jam, to imitate glaze. Just before sending the ham to table, fill the hollow part with some Macedoine of fruit in jelly, or else with some kind of cream; then place the ham on a dish, fix a handsome paper ruffle on the knuckle with a small silver skewer; garnish the ham round the base with croutons of some kind of sweet jelly, pink and white; place an ornament of the same on the top, and serve. RICE CAKES AND TIMBALES Rice Cake with Almonds Wash four ounces of rice, put it into a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, three ounces of sugar, half an ounce of bitter and two ounces of sweet almonds ground, one pint of milk, and a very little salt; boil very gently by the side of a slow fire, and by the time the milk has become absorbed by the rice, the latter will be sufficiently done. When the rice is done, mix in the yolks of two eggs, and the whites of two, whipped. Next shred two ounces of sweet almonds, and strew them equally over the inside of a plain buttered mould; pour in the prepared rice, and bake the cake for about one hour; when done, turn out on to a dish, pour some diluted apricot jam round the base, and serve. Note.—Rice cakes may also be flavoured with vanilla, orange-