206 THE MODERN COOK about an hour and a quarter. Just before dinner-time, take the capon out of the braise and drain it; remove the strings, dish up, and garnish with a richly composed ragout k la Godard (see p. 187), and serve. Capon a la Chipolata This is dressed in the same way as turkey k la Chipolata (see p. 204). Capon a l’Anglaise Truss and boil one plump capon, and when done, dish up; garnish with boiled heads of broccoli or cauliflower, sauce the capons with a rich Bechamel sauce, and serve. Tongue may be served at the same time as the capon. Capon a la Jardiniere This should be boiled and dished up as in the foregoing recipe. Garnish with alternate groups of prepared vegetables, such as small carrots, turnips, buds of cauliflower, green peas, asparagus-heads, and French beans cut in the form of diamonds. Sauce the capon with Bechamel sauce, glaze the tongue, and serve. In some cases the tongue may be replaced by an ornamental croustade of bread, fried a golden colour, and filled with mashed potatoes. Capon a la Macedoine This method is very similar to the foregoing, with this exception, that the capon when dished up should be garnished with a well- prepared Macedoine (see p. 35); sauce with Allemande, and serve. Capon a la Printaniere Truss and boil a fat capon, and when done, dish up with a nicely trimmed and glazed tongue in the centre; sauce with a Supreme sauce (see p. 10); garnish round with a border of small deep cups cut out of young turnips; these should be filled with carrots scooped out in the form of very small peas or olives, and also with young green peas; these cups, when disposed alternately round the dish, will be found to produce a very pretty effect. Capon a l’lvoire The capon must be trussed and braised in the usual manner, and when done, the stock in which it has been braised should be strained, every particle of fat removed, and clarified. After this has been strained it should be boiled down to the consistency of half- glaze, and when the capon is dished up, should be poured over it and sent to table. It is also customary in serving this remove to use a rich Supreme sauce (see p. 10), with small quenelles of fowl for garnish. Capon au Gros Sel This is dressed in the manner described in the first part of the foregoing recipe; a little coarse salt should, however, be placed upon the breast just before sending it to table.