431 ICE PUDDINGS AND FANCY SWEETS Biscuits Glaces in Small Cases To four yolks of eggs add one pint of cream, or half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, two ounces of ratafias, and four ounces of sugar; stir the whole in a stew-pan over the fire until the egg is sufficiently set; then pass the custard through a tammy or fine sieve into a basin, and when it has become cold, add a wine-glass of maraschino, and freeze this in the usual manner. Just before dishing up the biscuits, add half a pint of whipped cream to the iced custard; fill some small paper cases with this, and afterwards sprinkle over some pounded ratafias, and serve. Note.—These iced biscuits may be varied by changing the flavourings: all kinds of liqueurs, and essences of almonds, vanilla, orange, lemon, coffee, chocolate, or orange-flowers may be used: also by adding a puree of apricots, strawberries, raspberries, or pine- apple to the custard. Iced Nesselrode Pudding Boil two dozen chestnuts in water, and when done peel, pound, and rub them through a sieve; put this pulp into a stew-pan with two yolks of eggs, a pint of cream (or half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream), a few drops of vanilla essence, and half a pint of pine- apple syrup ; stir these ingredients over the fire until the eggs are sufficiently set in the custard, then rub the whole through a tammy or sieve, and put the cream into a basin. Chop two ounces of green citron, two ounces of pine-apple, and put these in a basin with two ounces of dried cherries and two ounces of Smyrna raisins; to these add a wine-glass of maraschino, and allow the fruit to steep for several hours. Freeze the chestnut cream in a freezing-pot immersed in rough ice, and freeze it in the usual manner; then add half a pint of whipped cream and the fruit. Leave the pudding in ice until it is required to be sent to table. Iced Pudding a la Princess Alice First remove the skins from the kernels of about two dozen walnuts, then pound these with six ounces of sugar until the whole forms a soft and pulpy paste ; put this into a basin, mix it with a pint of single cream, then pass it through a tammy or fine sieve and freeze in the usual manner. Meanwhile boil eighteen greengages, with four ounces of sugar and a gill of water, until the fruit is dissolved, when the whole must be rubbed through a tammy or sieve : this should then be frozen, adding, if necessary, a little thin syrup. The pudding mould must now be lined with the greengage ice, and the centre filled with the walnut-cream ice ; then place the lid on the mould, and stand the pudding in rough ice and freezing salt in the usual manner until dishing-up time, when the pudding must be turned out on to a dish, garnished round with small almond gaufres filled with whipped cream, with a preserved cherry placed on the top of each, and served immediately.