461 CREAMS AND CHARLOTTES set without allowing them to curdle, strain the cream into a basin ; add half a pint of whipped cream and three-quarters of an ounce of dissolved gelatine. Mix the whole well together, and pour into a mould placed on ice to receive it. Burnt Cream Put two ounces of castor sugar and half a gill of water into a sauce-pan. Stir these over a slow fire until the sugar begins to turn a rather light-brown colour. Add half a pint of milk, four ounces of sugar, and four yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire until the eggs are set. Flavour with lemon juice, strain, and when cool mix in half a pint of whipped cream and half an ounce of leaf gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water. Pour the cream into a mould, and set on ice. Orange=FIower Cream Put two ounces of candied orange-flowers into a stew-pan with two ounces of castor sugar and half a pint of milk; stir these over a slow fire until the sugar is melted, adding three ounces of sugar mixed with four yolks of eggs and a tablespoonful of orange-flower water. Stir this preparation over the fire to set the yolks of eggs; add three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine, dissolved in half a gill of water, and half a pint of stiffly whipped cream ; mix well together, and then pour the cream into a mould set on ice. Note.—The flavouring of this kind of cream may be varied accord- ing to taste, by substituting lemon, orange, vanilla, cinnamon and lemon, or any other kind of essence or liqueur, for the above. Pistachio Cream Blanch three ounces of pistachio kernels for two minutes in boiling water; remove the skin, wash and wipe the kernels, and pound them in a mortar with three ounces of sugar and a dessert- spoonful of orange-flower water; rub the whole through a fine hair- sieve into a basin. Add to the pounded pistachios a few drops of green extract of spinach (see p. 74), half a pint of whipped cream, half a pint of milk, and half an ounce of gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water. Mix well together, pour the cream into an oiled mould, and then set it on ice in the usual way. Italian Cream Put four yolks of eggs into a stew-pan with two ounces of sugar, the grated rind of an orange, a small stick of cinnamon, a wine-glass- ful of curagao, and half a pint of milk. Stir this over the fire, in order to set the yolks of eggs, and then add three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water. When cool, add half a pint of whipped cream, and after having well mixed the whole together, pour it into a mould placed on ice to receive it. Russian Charlotte Trim about twelve or fourteen finger-biscuits perfectly straight, so as to make them fit closely to one another, and line the bottom