271 ENTREES OF LAMB the dish upon a base, formed of poached quenelle force-meat made of fowl or veal, and shaped to resemble a dariole-mould. Fill the centre of the entree with stewed peas, pour some Espagnole sauce round the base, and serve. Note.—Lamb’s sweetbreads prepared as the foregoing may also be served with asparagus, Macedoine or Jardiniere of vegetables; also with Toulouse or Financiere ragouts; and indeed in every form directed for other sweetbreads. Blanquette of Lamb’s Sweetbreads Steep eight throat sweetbreads in water, scald them, and then braise them in a small stew-pan with very little stock for about a quarter of an hour; put them on a dish to cool, cut them into neat pieces, and put them into a stew-pan containing some sauce a la Poulette; toss the whole together till warm, then dish up the blanquette in a conical form, garnish round with a border of potato croquettes made in the form of pears, and serve. Note.—Mushrooms, truffles, cucumbers, or asparagus peas may be added. Scalloped Lamb’s Sweetbreads Braise six or eight sweetbreads, and when cold cut them into rather thin small slices. Finish these according to the directions for scalloped calf’s brains (see p. 267). Lamb’s Head a la Pascaline The lamb’s head must be scalded in the same way as a calf’s head for mock turtle, then boned, and filled up with force-meat made of the liver, as for a gratin (see p. 61); sew the head up with a trussing needle and string, secure in shape by fastening it in a piece of greased paper, and set it to braise in a stew-pan, seasoned with a carrot, an onion, a stick of celery, a bunch of herbs, six cloves, and a blade of mace; moisten with good stock, and allow it to boil gently for about an hour and a half. While the above is in preparation, four lamb’s sweetbreads should be larded and prepared ready for glazing; a set of lamb’s brains must also be soaked and washed, and boiled in a little vinegar and water with sliced carrot and onion, pepper and salt, afterwards drained, cut, and made into croquettes. Two lamb’s tongues, after being braised, must be cut into slices, and placed in a stew-pan with a little chopped mushrooms and one pint of Pascaline sauce. When about to send to table, place the head with the ears curled upon a dish, and the larded sweetbreads at its four corners; between these put the croquettes of brains, previously fried, pour the pieces of tongue, mushrooms, and sauce round the head, glaze, and serve. Lamb’s Ears k la Financiere Procure half-a-dozen lamb’s ears, scald these, then plunge them in cold water; when cold, wipe dry, and singe over heat; they must then be gently braised in some white stock for about three-quarters of an hour, and when done, drained well; the thin part of the ears