CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE 303 white Mayonnaise sauce (see p. 23), garnish with lettuce-hearts and quarters of egg boiled hard, or with plovers’ eggs; crown the Mayonnaise with some chopped aspic, or a crouton of set aspic jelly. Aspic of Fowl a la Reine Roast a fowl, and use the flesh to make some puree a la Reine (see p. 297); mix this with about half a pint of good Bechamel sauce (see p. 3) and about one-third part of dissolved aspic jelly (see p. 24), and work the whole well together in a stew-pan upon some rough ice. While this is going on, a plain round or oval mould should be decorated with black truffles and red tongue, in the following manner:—First place the mould in some crushed ice, then pour about a tablespoonful of bright aspic jelly over the bottom, and when this has become set, place over it a bold decoration, formed with leaves, rings, dots, crescents, etc., cut out of truffles and tongue, and arranged so as to represent a circular wreath, with a star or scroll in the centre. Decorate the sides of the mould in the same manner, dipping each piece of the decoration in a little melted aspic jelly, to make it stick to the mould; when the decoration is completed, fill the mould up with the prepared purde, and embed the mould in ice to set the aspic. When firm, dip the mould in tepid water for a few seconds, withdraw it quickly, wipe it with a clean cloth, and turn it out upon a dish. Garnish with a roll of chopped aspic jelly, place some croutons round the base, and serve. Note.'—The above may be made also with pheasant, partridge, or . any other kind of game. Galantine of Chicken with Aspic Chop up six ounces of veal, with the same quantity of fat bacon, and season with chopped mushrooms, parsley, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and aromatic seasoning (see p. 391); when these are chopped quite fine, pound the whole in a mortar, with the yolk of an egg, and put the force-meat into a basin. Peel two ounces of truffles, and cut some slices of red tongue and about four ounces of fat bacon into long narrow fillets, about a quarter of an inch square. Next bone a fine chicken, and draw the skin from the legs and pinions, inside; then spread the bird out, and with a sharp knife pare off some part of the fillets, to cover the thinner parts of the skin; season slightly with pepper, salt, and aromatic spices; spread a layer of the prepared force-meat, about an inch thick, then place the fillets of tongue and bacon upon this, about an inch apart, and insert rows of truffles between these; after which spread another layer of force-meat over the whole, then repeat the tongue and truffles, and so on, until a sufficient quantity of both has been placed in the chicken. It must then be sewn up the back, placed upon a cloth, rolled up tightly, and fastened at each end with string; thus giving to the galantine the appearance of a cushion. Then put into an oval braise-pan with the carcase and any trimmings of veal or poultry that may be at hand, a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a bouquet garni, two bay leaves, sweet basil and