THE MODERN COOK 86 the central fin of its tail, and with a sudden jerk the gall will be with- drawn. Then mince or cut into small dice a carrot, an onion, one stick of celery, and a little parsley; to these add a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a little mignonette pepper, and one ounce of butter. Put these ingredients into a stew-pan, and fry them on the fire for ten minutes ; then throw in the crayfish and pour on them a glass of French white wine. Allow this to boil, and then add three pints of strong consomme, and let them continue gently boiling for half an hour; then pick out the crayfish, and strain the broth through a napkin by pressure into a basin in order to extract all the essence from the vegetables. Pick the shell off two dozen of the crayfish tails, trim them neatly, and set them aside until wanted. Reserve some of the spawn, and also half the body shells, with which to make a little crayfish butter (see p. 43) to finish the soup. Take all that remains, and add to them one or two anchovies washed for the purpose, and also a plate of crusts of French rolls fried to a light- brown colour in butter. Pound all these thoroughly, and then put them into a stew-pan with the broth that has been reserved in a basin, and having warmed the bisque thus prepared, rub it through a tammy into a puree. Then take the puree up into a sauce-pan; finish by incorporating therewith the crayfish butter, season with a little cayenne pepper and the juice of half a lemon. Pour the bisque quite hot into the soup-tureen containing the crayfish tails, and send to table. Bisque of Crayfish a la Malmesbury Wash thoroughly one quart of mussels, steam them in a well- covered stew-pan, and then pick out all the white mussels from the shells, and put them into a stew-pan with some of their own liquor. To these add two dozen tails of crayfish, and twelve very small quenelles of whiting which have been mixed with sufficient chopped and blanched parsley to give them a green colour. Just before dinner-time warm the mussels, etc., in a pint of consommd, put them into the soup-tureen, and then pour the bisque of crayfish quite hot on to them. Let the bisque be prepared in the same way as described in the bisque of Crayfish it l’Ancienne. When there is not sufficient time for thickening the puree by the addition of the fried crusts of the French rolls, one and a half ounces of well-boiled rice, half a pint of reduced Veloute sauce, or even the crumb of a French roll soaked in hot stock and pounded with the crayfish may be used; but the fried crusts are to be preferred. Bisque of Crab a la Fitzhardinge Procure one large boiled crab, pick the white meat from the claws into shreds, and put it away between two plates in a cool place until wanted. Scoop out all the pulpy part of the crab, as well as all the white meat to be found in the shell, and pound these well with about one ounce of rice boiled in stock ; dilute the whole with a quart of good consomme, and then rub it through a tammy into a puree, put it into a sauce-pan, and keep it in a cool place.