369 SIDE-DISHES Artichokes with Foie-Gras Drain some artichoke-bottoms (cooked), and fill them with a puree of foie-gras and truffles; coat well with a rich, well-reduced White sauce, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and brown in the oven. Artichoke Fritters Cut some cooked artichoke-bottoms into slices, and season with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, and chopped parsley. Dip the pieces (drained) in frying batter. Fry in hot fat. Drain well, then dish up and serve hot. Devilled Mushrooms in Cases Wipe and peel six cup mushrooms, cut them into small dice and toss in butter. Butter some souffle paper cases, lay a thin slice of lemon in each, three-parts fill with mushrooms, and season to taste. Spread a layer of potted devilled meat, mixed with a yolk of egg, over the mushrooms; brush over with oiled butter, and bake for fifteen minutes. Just before dishing up put a tablespoonful of stiff Mayonnaise sauce on top of each case, sprinkle with cayenne, and serve quickly. Mushroom Crofites Cut some slices of white bread, stamp out rounds or oblongs with a fancy or plain cutter, fry them in butter to a golden colour, and drain. Have ready a pint of button mushrooms, peeled and fried in butter; also a mixture of finely chopped beef and ham, moistened with a rich brown sauce. When quite hot, spread the mixture over the crofites, place a mushroom on each; season with pepper, salt, cayenne, and a little lemon juice. Place them in a hot oven for a few minutes, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Devilled Olives Stone some large Spanish olives, stuff them with anchovy paste. Spread some small wholemeal or charcoal biscuits with anchovy paste, brush over with oiled butter; place the olives in circular rows on the biscuits (three or four on each), season with pepper and plenty of cayenne. Place them on a buttered saut^-pan in the oven for ten minutes, and dish up on a folded napkin. Garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. Tomato and Anchovy Savoury Take three or four ripe tomatoes, three hard-boiled eggs, twenty- four fillets of anchovy, twelve rounds of brown bread, two ounces butter, and chopped parsley. Scald the tomatoes and remove the skin. Cut them into round slices. Place each slice on to neatly cut slices of brown bread, cut out with a round pastry cutter, and spread with butter. Put a slice of hard-boiled egg on to the tomato, and cross two fillets of anchovy over each one. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley on the top, and serve as a cold savoury.