THE MODERN COOK 192 Shred the rind of one orange very thin and perfectly free from pith, boil it in water for five minutes, drain in cold water, and then add to it a pint of good Espagnole sauce, a tablespoonful of red- currant jelly, a chopped shalot, a little grated nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon juice; boil the whole together, stirring it the while with a wooden spoon, and use this preparation as directed above. Having thus continued alternately, adding layers of ox-cheek and sauce, until the whole forms a dome, mask it over with the remainder of the sauce, and after smoothing the surface with the blade of a knife, cover it with some light-coloured raspings. About three-quarters of an hour before dinner put the dish in the oven to allow the preparation to get thoroughly warm ; garnish with a border of glazed onions, pour some of the same sauce round it—this, however, must be thinner than that directed to be used for mixing with the ox-cheek —and serve. Ox=Cheek a l’AIlemande Braise the ox-cheek as directed in the foregoing recipe; when done, put in press, and after being trimmed, place on a buttered baking- sheet, and mask all over with the following preparation :—Take four ounces of grated raspings, and mix into a paste with a little port wine, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, and one ounce of sugar ; mix the whole well together, and spread it all over the ox-cheek. Three-quarters of an hour before dinner-time put the ox-cheek in the oven to get warmed through; then place on a dish, garnish with groups of small quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80) and stewed prunes, sauce with German sweet sauce (see p. 15), and send to table. Ox-Cheek a la Portuguaise Braise the ox-cheek; when done, put in press, trim, and place in a fricandeau pan with the clarified and reduced stock in which it has been braised ; and having warmed it in this, and glazed it, dish up; garnish with a border of eggs farcis, or stuffed and fried, pour some Portuguese sauce (see p. 15) round the ox-cheek, and send to table. Ox=Cheek a la Pompadour Braise the ox-cheek until very tender, and after having put it in press, and trimmed it, mask over with a coating of reduced Atelets sauce (see p. 10); when the sauce has become set by cooling on the ox-cheek, egg and bread-crumb with very fine bread-crumbs mixed with one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; sprinkle over a little butter, place on a well-buttered baking-sheet, and an hour before dinner put in the oven to.bake to a golden colour; dish up, garnish with a ragout of ox-palates in a Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5), finish with a border of croquettes of ox-palates, and send to table. Note.—Besides the foregoing methods of dressing ox-cheeks, they may also be served with a Jardiniere, Macedoine, tomatoes farcis (see p. 344), braised red cabbage, Soubise or Bretonne purees, stewed peas or asparagus peas.