COLD RAISED MEAT AND GAME PIES, ETC. 389 The remainder of the paste must now be rolled out, and used to cover the pie; fasten securely round the edges, trim, and decorate it with the pincers; ornament the top with leaves, etc., egg over, and bake in an oven of moderate heat for about one and a half to two hours, and serve hot. Leicestershire Pork Pie Cut one and a half to two pounds of pork in square pieces, fat and lean, about the size of a cob-nut, season with pepper and salt and a small quantity of sage and thyme chopped finely, and set aside. Next make some hot-water paste (see p. 391), using for this purpose lard instead of butter, in the proportion of eight ounces to the pound of flour. These pies must be raised by hand in the following manner:—First mould the paste into a round ball upon the slab, then roll it out to the thickness of half an inch, and with the back of the right hand indent the centre in a circle reaching to within three inches of the edge of the paste; next gather up the edges all round, pressing it closely with the fingers and thumbs so as to give it the form of a purse; then continue to work it upwards until the sides are raised sufficiently high; the pie should now be placed on a baking-sheet, with a round of buttered paper under it, and after it has been filled with the pork, covered in with some of the paste in the usual manner. Trim the edges with the pincers, decorate it, egg over, and bake until done: calculating the time it should remain in the oven according to the quantity of meat it- contains. Eel Pie Bone a good-sized eel, spread it out on a dish, and sprinkle over with a little pepper and salt. Make some quenelle force-meat with either perch, tench, or carp; and after having mixed with it some chopped mushrooms and parsley, spread a thick layer of it inside the eel, roll up, cut into two-inch lengths, and place on a dish until wanted. Next line a plain mould with short paste (see p. 391), arrange the pieces, of eel in it, season between each layer with chopped parsley and mushrooms, pepper and salt, and a table- spoonful of good Bechamel sauce; cover in the pie, in the usual manner, with some of the paste, pinch the edge round, ornament the top, egg over, and bake in the oven for about an hour and a half; when done, dish up on a napkin, and send to table. Note.—When eel pies are intended to be eaten cold, the top should be removed, and the pie ornamented with aspic jelly before sending to table. Salmon Pie a la Russe Make about one pound of short paste (see p. 391) and keep in a cool place till wanted. Cut one and a half pounds of fresh salmon in slices about half an inch thick, and set aside on a plate; fillet two or three anchovies, cut up half-a-dozen olives (removing the stone by paring off the outer part without altering the shape), boil one egg hard, and place the whole of these on a dish. Chop