123 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL Remove the fillets from the trout and skin them, then trim each neatly and place them in a well-buttered saute-pan; season with salt and pepper, add the wine and some mushroom, i.e. champignon, liquor; cover with buttered paper and poach in the oven; allow about fifteen minutes to cook. Prepare a neatly-shaped border with the potato puree, force same on to an oblong silver-plated dish, brush over with egg yolk, and bake to a golden brown. Butter twelve small shell moulds, and fill each with fish farce with a bearded oyster in the centre of each ; poach them in the oven in the usual way. Reduce the white sauce with the liquor from the trout and oysters, strain and reheat, and enrich if found necessary with a little cream or egg yolk; season to taste. Dress the fillets round the inside of the prepared border close to the edge, in the centre range the poached oyster quenelles and champignons’ heads, previously tossed in butter, then sauce over the whole carefully with white sauce. The Tomato sauce must be reduced with the lobster spawn almost to a puree and put in a cornet; with this force out a trellis-work pattern on top of the white sauce. The dish is then ready to serve. In addition to the different methods given here for dressing trout, this kind of fish may be prepared in every variety of form and style in which salmon is sent to table. STURGEON Sturgeon a la Beaufort Choose six to eight pounds of prime cut of sturgeon, braise it for two and a half to three hours in a mirepoix moistened with sherry, or with ordinary stock and a little brandy. When the fish is done, drain it and put in the larder to cool; then mask it all over with a coating of quenelle force-meat of whiting. Place some fillets of soles previously contises with truffles crosswise along the back of the sturgeon, allowing the space of an inch to intervene between each fillet of sole, which spaces are to be filled up by the insertion of crayfish tails, trimmed and secured by being stuck into the force- meat in close rows; then cover the fish with very thin layers of fat bacon, place it on a drainer, and put it in the braiser with a little of the mirepoix in which it has been braised. About an hour before dinner-time, put it in the oven or on a slow fire, and after the fish has simmered gently, without boiling during the time allotted, take it out of the braise upon the drainer, and after removing the layers of bacon, slide it off the drainer on to its dish; sauce it round with a rich Matelote sauce made with Sauterne wine, add also some of the liquor in which the sturgeon has been braised; garnish round with alternate groups of the soft roes of mackerel (cut in halves, blanched, and fried in batter) and some dessertspoon quenelles of lobster. Sturgeon a la Cardinal Procure a prime cut of sturgeon, weighing about six pounds; remove its skin in the following manner :—Place the piece of sturgeon