TARTS AND FANCY PASTRIES 419 Royals Mix the whites of two eggs with as much finely sifted sugar as they will absorb, so as to form a soft paste; a few drops of any kind of essence may be added to flavour the cakes. Make four ounces of puff paste, and finish these cakes exactly in the same way as the preceding recipe. D’Artois of Apricot Make half a pound of puff paste and give it seven turns or fold- ings; then take one-third, and after kneading this well together, roll out to the size of a square baking-sheet; next spread a rather thick layer of apricot jam over the paste to within about an inch of the edges; then roll out the remainder of the puff paste the same size, and place neatly over the surface of the apricot; fasten it round by pressing upon the edges with the thumb, and trim the edges with a knife. Mark out the d’Artois in small oblong shapes with the back part of a knife, and after the whole surface has been egged over, score neatly, forming a kind of feather pattern on each cake. Bake a light-brown colour, and when done, dredge over some finely sifted sugar; put them back again into the oven for a minute or two to melt the sugar and get brown on the top. 'When the d’Artois are cold, cut them up, and serve in circular rows piled on a fancy paper. Note.—This kind of pastry may also be garnished with Pithiviers cream, pastry custard, apple marmalade, or any other kind of preserve. Apricot Nougats Roll out some trimmings of puff paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch; lay this over the surface of a baking-sheet, spread it with a rather thick layer of apricot jam, and then sprinkle over some shred pistachio kernels or almonds, dredge some finely sifted sugar over all, and bake in a moderately heated oven. When done, let the pastry cool, and then use any kind of fancy tin-cutter to stamp out into shapes. Pastry Custard or Cream Ingredients : 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. sugar, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. butter, £ pt. cream or milk, 1 oz. ratafias, 1 tablespoonful orange- flower water, and a very little salt. Mix the flour, sugar, and salt, with the eggs, in a stew-pan; then add the cream and the butter, and stir the whole over the fire until it boils; it must then be well worked together until quite smooth. Withdraw the spoon, and after putting the lid on the stew-pan, place the mixture in the oven, or on a slow fire, to simmer very gently for about twenty minutes; the cream must then be poured into a basin, and the ratafias and the orange-flower water added; after which put one ounce of butter into a small stew-pan on the fire, and as soon as it begins to fritter and turn a light-brown colour (which gives to it the flavour of nuts), add this also to the cream, and mix well together. Use this cream to garnish various kinds of pastry, according to the directions given in the various recipes for which it is intended.