358 THE MODERN COOK mould, previously lined with aspic jelly, with slices of gherkins, truffles, and hard-boiled white of egg, and fill the centre with vegetable Macedoine mixed with Mayonnaise and sufficient aspic to set. When this is set, turn out the border on a cold dish, mix the salad with Mayonnaise, and pile up high in the centre of the dish. Henri IV. Salad Slice thinly half a small peeled cucumber, one small aubergine, and three to four small peeled tomatoes. Cut these into fine julienne strips, also four to six ounces of cooked ox-tongue, and one large pimiento. Blend all carefully, and season liberally with Vinaigrette dressing containing chopped gherkins and capers. Ambigue Salad Trim, wash, and dry on a cloth two French lettuces, then cut them into coarse julienne strips; add one-third of cooked asparagus-tips and the finely shredded meat of a fresh crab; season to taste and mix with Mayonnaise. Dress the salad neatly in a salad bowl, and garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg and Spanish pimiento. Hortoise Salad Cut into thin slices two black radishes, one small bunch of washed and trimmed spring radishes, and one peeled cucumber; shred finely one Spanish pimiento. Blend all carefully together, and season liber- ally with Vinaigrette mixed with one teaspoonful of French mustard, chopped chives, and a few tarragon leaves. Dish up and serve. Egg Salad a la Printaniere Mix three hard-boiled eggs, cut into fine shreds or small dice, with Mayonnaise sauce and finely cut anchovy fillets. Range neatly in the centre of a salad bowl, and besprinkle with chopped tarragon and chervil leaves. Arrange groups of cooked green asparagus-points, chopped or shredded beetroot, thinly cut rounds of radishes, truffle, and tomatoes round the base of the dish, and serve. Tomato and Cucumber Salad Small even-sized tomatoes are the best for this salad. Scald them in boiling water, then peel and place them on the ice. Scoop out a sufficient depth to hold about a teaspoonful, and put half a sweet green pepper and one small cucumber chopped fine; place each tomato upon a lettuce leaf, and pour a teaspoonful of Mayonnaise over the top. A sauce-boat of Mayonnaise should be served separately with the dish. Vaudeville Salad Dip eight to ten small firm tomatoes into boiling water for a second or two and peel them quickly. Cut each in half crossways and remove the seeds, then cut each into quarters. Season carefully with salt, pepper, and sufficient piquante Mayonnaise dressing to bind the tomatoes. Keep on the ice for half an hour or longer. Just before serving, peel and slice thinly three unripe bananas, and mix