VEGETABLES AND SALADS 343 Cauliflower with White Sauce Remove the green stalks of one or two cauliflowers, divide them into quarters, and with the point of a small knife pick out all the small leaves; wash the cauliflowers, and boil them in hot water with a little mignonette pepper, a pat of butter, and some salt: when done, drain them upon a sieve. Take a round-bottomed basin and fill it with the cauliflowers, placing the flowerets next the sides that the white only may show when dished up; after which, turn the cauliflowers out on to a dish, pour some white sauce over them, garnish with fleurons, and serve. Cauliflower au Gratin Prepare and dish up one or more cauliflowers as above. Put half a pint of Bechamel or Veloute sauce into a stew-pan with one and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, an ounce of fresh butter, a small piece of glaze, some lemon juice, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; stir this preparation over the fire until well mixed without boiling, then pour it over the cauliflowers so as to mask them entirely. Smooth the dome over with the blade of a knife and sprinkle the top with grated Parmesan cheese; place in the oven to gratinate for about a quarter of an hour; when nicely browned, put a border of croutons of fried bread round, and serve. The croutons may be stuck round the bottom of the dish in the form of a coronet, previous to dishing up the cauliflowers, so as to prevent them from spreading. Tomatoes a la Provengale Choose six to eight even-sized ripe tomatoes, scoop out the centre without breaking the sides of the fruit, and place in a stew-pan containing about a gill of salad oil. Next chop up six or eight mushrooms, a sprig or two of parsley, and two shalots; put these into a stew-pan with one ounce of scraped fat bacon, and an equal proportion of lean ham, either chopped or grated finely; season with pepper and salt and a little chopped thyme. Fry these over the fire for about five minutes; then mix in the yolk of an egg, fill the tomatoes with this preparation, shake some browned bread-crumbs over them, and place in a brisk oven or hold under the salamander for about ten minutes, by which time they will be done. Dish up in the form of a dome, sprinkle with chopped parsley, pour round some Brown or Italian sauce (see p. 5), and serve. Tomatoes a la Chasseur For this dish the following ingredients are required: 1 lb. tomatoes, 4 oz. cracknel biscuits, ^ gill cream, 2 oz. butter, 1 tea- spoonful chopped parsley, a pinch castor sugar, 1 dessertspoonful Lemco, 6 to 8 fresh cup mushrooms, pepper and salt. Boil the tomatoes in slightly salted water; strain off the water and rub the tomatoes through a sieve. Soak the biscuits in tepid water or milk and pass them through a sieve. Mix them with the tomatoes in a stew-pan, add half the butter, the Lemco, the sugar,