516 THE MODERN COOK Frangipane. Confectioner’s custard. Frappe. Iced (used when cooling champagne, sauces, and creams). Fricandeau and Grenadins consist of the primest parts of veal, or fillets of poultry, etc., smoothly trimmed, larded, braised, and brightly glazed with a concentration of their own liquor ; they are served as side-dishes. Fricassee consists of white meat cut in pieces, and prepared in a white sauce, with truffles, mushrooms, cocks’-combs, etc., as accessories. Fritter. Beignets. Anything dipped in batter, or crumbed, egged, and fried. Fumet. Flavour or essence of game, fish, etc., used to impart a rich flavour to certain dishes. Garnishing or Garniture. As a culinary term, it means to decorate a dish with edibles of ornamental appearance. Gateau. A round, flat cake, generally decorated. Essentially a rich cake; also frequently applied to open fruit tarts, etc. Gaufres. A light spongy sort of biscuit. Glac6. Anything iced. This word is also sometimes used figuratively, by French cooks, to signify a smooth glossy surface. Glaze. Stock or gravy reduced to the thickness of jelly, used for glazing meats, etc., to improve their appearance ; well-made glaze adheres firmly to the meat. Also used for strengthening soups and sauces. Gnocchi. A light, savoury dough, boiled and served with grated Parmesan cheese. Gratins. A term applied to certain dishes consisting of game, poultry, fish, vegetables, or macaroni, etc., covered with sauce, grated cheese, bread-crumbs and browned. Gumbo. The American term for okra soup or other preparations from okra, the young capsules of the okra plant, gumbo being the name by which okra is mostly known in South America. Chicken gumbo is a puree made from okra and chicken. Hach£. Minced meat; finely sliced meat heated up in brown or white sauce. IIatelet. Small silver skewers, used for ornamenting fish and remove dishes. Hors-d’ceuvre (Hot). A species of very light side-dish, such as patties of all kinds, rissoles, croquettes, scalloped fish, shellfish, macaroni, poultry, game, sweetbreads, brains, beef marrow, salads of fish, poultry, or game, etc. Hors-d’ceuvre (Cold). These should be eaten immediately before the soup and fish ; they are considered as appetisers or whets to the appetite, and consist of sardines, anchovies, tunny, Dutch herrings, savoury butters, oysters, oiled salads, etc. Icing. A covering for cakes or pastry, made with fine sugar and white of egg, or sugar and water, flavoured and coloured to taste. Irlandaise (A l’). Irish style ; applied to dishes containing potatoes in some form. Italienne (A l’). Applied to dishes containing macaroni or similar paste, together with cheese and tomato. jARDiNifcRE. A preparation of mixed vegetables stewed down in their own sauce. Kromeskis. Polish word ; same meaning as croquette in French. Krona Pepper. A mild red pepper seasoning of delicate aroma and coral-red colour, used for all kinds of savoury preparation.