248 THE MODERN COOK through, leaving the bacon in the cutlet; repeat this until the cutlet has been studded with eight strips of bacon, and proceed in the same manner with the remainder. Put some of the trimmings at the bottom of a large stew-pan, or fricandeau pan, and place the cutlets upon them in circular order, with the bone-end pointing to the centre ; cover them with the remainder of the trimmings, and garnish with a sliced carrot, a large onion stuck with four cloves, a bouquet garni, and a stick of celery; season with a dozen peppercorns and a blade of mace, moisten with sufficient fresh stock to cover the whole; place a buttered paper on this, put on the lid, and set the cutlets to braise very gently on a slow fire, or in the oven, for about one hour and a half; when they are nearly tender enough, draw the pan off the fire, and allow them to get partially cold in their own liquor. The cutlets must then be carefully taken out, one at a time, with a small slice or skimmer, and placed in rows on a large earthenware dish • when the whole are thus removed, another dish must be placed upon these to press them slightly, in order to give them an even surface. As soon as they have become firm by getting quite cold, trim them neatly with a sharp knife by paring off the surface of each cutlet (without waste), so as to show the bacon inserted in the lean; put them into a deep stew-pan with some half-glaze, made with the liquor they have been braised in, which must be strained, the fat removed, clarified, and afterwards boiled down for the purpose. A quarter of an hour before sending to table, put the cutlets over a good fire to warm, allow them to boil quickly for five minutes, then turn the stew-pan about care- fully, so as to glaze them all over, and dish them up in a close circle; fill the centre with some Soubise sauce or puree (seep. 29), pour the remainder of the half-glaze round the base of the entree, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets a la Lyonnaise Prepare, finish, and dish up the cutlets, as in the previous recipe; then fill the centre with some Lyonnaise sauce, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets with Artichoke Puree These are prepared exactly as for Soubise, and when dished up should be garnished with a puree of artichokes (see p. 29); pour a little Bechamel sauce, or some half-glaze round their base, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets a la Chipolata Prepare and dish up these in the same manner as the previous recipe, garnish them with a Chipolata ragout (see p. 44), and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets a la Pompadour These must be prepared, in the first instance, practically the same as directed for Soubise cutlets, except that, instead of the larding, they must be studded with red tongue and black truffles. When the cutlets, after being braised, have been trimmed, mask each of them with a coating of reduced Soubise sauce; and when this has become firmly set, by cooling on the cutlets, dip them separately in beaten egg, and afterwards bread-crumb them; flatten the bread-crumbs on