48 THE MODERN COOK a napkin, put them into a small stew-pan with half-a-dozen white cocks’ combs and a few scallops of fat livers; to these add the remainder of the brown purde of onions, which must be no thicker than sauce. This ragofit may be used for garnishing boudins k la Richelieu, or any entrees of poultry or game that are bread-crumbed and broiled. Ragout of Chicken’s Wings This ragoftt is only to be recommended when it happens that a certain number of fowls or chickens have to be cut up for other purposes; in such case, save the wings, which cut off close to the breast, bone them neatly, without tearing or cutting the skin, and fill up the cavity occasioned by taking the bone out with some quenelle force-meat of fowl; shape them neatly and parboil them, immerse them in cold water, then drain and trim.them. Line a stew-pan with thin layers of fat bacon, place the wings therein with a bunch of parsley, thyme, a bay-leaf, and an onion; moisten with one pint of white stock, cover them with a round of buttered paper, and set them to boil gently by the side of the stove for about twenty minutes, when, if the fowls are young, the wings will be done. Then drain the wings on a napkin, and, when trimmed, put them into a small stew-pan with half a pint of Allemande sauce. This ragout is more generally made use of for filling vol-au-vents, casseroles of rice, and chartreuses ; it is also useful, as an accessory, for garnishing large removes. Ragout of Ox=Palates Steep three or four ox-palates in water for several hours, keeping the vessel that contains them near the stove-fire, so that the water may become gradually tepid, which materially helps to cleanse them; then scald and scrape them clean, trim, wash, and set them to braise in some blanc or poele (see p. 57); about four hours will suffice. When the palates are done, drain and put them in press between two dishes ; when cold, shape them out with a round cutter an inch in diameter, and place them in a stew-pan with a good half pint of either of the following sauces—Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, Italienne, Financiere, Poivrade, or Tomato. This ragout is strictly appropriate only for garnishing pates-chauds and vol-au-vents, but it may, in cases of emergency, be served as an entree, garnished round with croquettes of potatoes or fleurons of pastry. Ragofit of Sheep’s Tongues a 1’Ecarlate Boil and press two or three sheep’s tongues that have been cured with saltpetre; trim and cut them into round scallops, and then put these scallops into a small stew-pan with half a pint of any kind of sauce that may be suitable for the entrde they are meant to garnish. Regent’s Ragout Fillet an eel, cut it into scallops, and simmer these in a stew-pan with a little butter, chopped parsley, lemon juice, pepper, and salt; when done, drain the scallops on a napkin, and then put them into