CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE 291 hour before sending to table, finish the large fillets as in the previous recipe, substituting Allemande for Supreme sauce, and this should be incorporated with some reduced essence of fowl, a pat of butter, a little cream, and lemon juice. The larded fillets must be moistened with a little half-glaze, placed in the oven for about six minutes, and nicely glazed. Dish up the large fillets in a close circle with a crouton of bread, cut in the form of a deep crescent, fried in butter, and glazed; fill the centre with a ragofit of cocks’ combs and kernels tossed in some of the sauce; dress the larded fillets round the top of the others, pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. Supreme of Fowl with Truffles Prepare this in the same way as on p. 290; decorate the small fillets with truffles, finish and dish up the entree as directed in that recipe, and fill the centre with pieces of truffles tossed in a small saute-pan with a little glaze and a very small piece of fresh butter; pour the Supreme sauce (see p. 10) round the base and on the fillets, and serve. Supreme of Fowl a la Parisienne Trim four or six large fillets of fowls, and decorate them with black truffles in the following manner:—First spread the bottom of a large saute-pan with fresh butter ; place the fillets therein, all curved in the same direction, with the smooth side uppermost. Next rub each fillet over slightly with a paste-brush dipped in slightly beaten white of egg; the truffles, after being first cut into thin slices, and stamped out with fancy cutters in various forms, should then be stuck upon this prepared surface, according to taste, forming stars, scrolls, palms, mosaics, etc. When all the fillets are decorated, brush over again with clarified butter; place a covering of buttered paper upon them, and set the saute-pan aside in the larder. The smaller fillets must also be decorated with red tongue, in the same way as the others. When about to send to table, simmer the fillets on both sides without browning; when done, drain, and dish up in a close circle, placing a fillet of red tongue between each of the large fillets; next place the small fillets in a close border on the top of the inner edge of these, fill the centre with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), pour some of the sauce round the base of the entree, without in any way masking the decoration of the fillets, and serve. Supreme of Fowl a la Belle=Vue In this instance the fillets must be prepared and finished in exactly the same way as on p. 290 ■ but when dishing up, instead of the fillet of tongue, place between the fillets a slice of cucumber, prepared as follows:— Cut a medium, well - shaped cucumber into slanting pieces of about a quarter of an inch in thickness ; trim these neatly in an oval form, scooping out the seeds, and after having parboiled the rings in I salt and water, drain, and place them at the bottom of a stew-pan K