CAKES IN GENERAL 399 Place the remainder of the flour on the slab and make a well in the centre, place in this the salt and sugar (with a very little water to dissolve the salt), the butter (melted), and eggs, and proceed to mix these thoroughly in the same way as brioche; add the sponge, and then mix in the maraschino and the whipped cream. Put the paste into a greased mould, and leave in a warm place to rise; as soon as it has nearly reached the top of the mould, fasten a band of paper round the edge, and bake a light brown in a moderate oven. It is customary to eat Compiegne cake hot, and it is served in various ways. When turned out of the mould, a small piece should be taken out of the centre of the top, and a glass or two of maraschino poured in through the opening; or the cake may be cut up in hori- zontal slices half an inch thick, and spread with apricot marmalade. Dried cherries and angelica may also be added to the cake before baking. German Kouglaiiff Ingredients: i lb. flour, io oz. butter, 5 eggs, 1 oz. German yeast, 2 oz. sugar, \ oz. cinnamon powder, a little grated lemon-peel, 1 small teaspoonful salt, 1 gill cream, and 3 oz. sweet almonds. Beat the butter with a clean wooden spoon for about ten minutes, by which time it should look like thick cream ; the cinnamon, lemon, and sugar, about one-fourth part of the flour, and two eggs should then be added, and the whole quickly worked together for a few minutes; then add the remainder of the flour and eggs gradually, still continuing to stir the mixture with the wooden spoon. When the whole has been incorporated, make a well in the centre, and add the yeast (previously dissolved with the salt in the cream made tepid for the purpose); work the whole thoroughly, then pour this batter into a greased mould, blanch and split the almonds, and place them round the inside of the mould in close order. Bake the kouglaiiff in a moderate oven. Its colour should be a bright reddish golden. In Germany it is customary to shake some cinnamon sugar all over this kind of cake as soon as it is turned out of the mould, before sending to table. Parisian Cake Ingredients: i lb. flour, 10 oz. butter, 3 oz. sugar, 5 eggs, \ pt. cream, 4 oz. sweet almonds and 1 oz. bitter almonds, 2 oz. pistachio kernels, 2 oz. candied orange-peel, a little salt, and 1 oz. yeast. Blanch the pistachio kernels, remove the skins, split each kernel into four strips and put on one side in a basin. Chop the candied orange-peel into thin strips, and put with the pistachios. Blanch and peel the almonds, wash and pound them into a soft paste (adding a few drops of rose-water to prevent their becoming oily), then mix them with the cream, rub through a tammy, as for a puree, and keep in a cool place until wanted. For mixing this cake, follow the directions for German kouglaiiff (see above), adding the pistachios and orange-peel after filling the