295 CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE other, after which pour in some boiling stock, and set them by the side of the fire to poach. When the quenelles are done, drain them, trim neatly, still retaining their oval shape, and place one half of them in a saute-pan with a little white consomme ; bread-crumb the remainder, first masking them over with a coating of Allemande sauce. When about to send to table, fry the bread-crumbed quenelles a golden colour in hot fat, and having warmed the plain ones and drained them, dish up the entree, alternately placing one of each sort of quenelle; fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), pour some of the sauce round, and serve. Chicken Quenelles a la Marechale Prepare the quenelles as in the previous recipe ; shape them in the form of cutlets, oval, oblong, circular, or like a heart, taking care not to make them more than a quarter of an inch thick. When they have been poached and trimmed, place upon a dish, and mask over with some Allemande sauce; when this has become firmly set upon the quenelles by cooling, bread-crumb them over twice in the usual way, dipping once in egg and the second time in clarified butter. They must then be broiled upon oiled paper, and when a light colour on one side, great care must be taken in turning them over so that they may be equally broiled on the other. When done, dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with Allemande or Supreme sauce, or with essence of fowl, and serve. Boudins of Chicken a la Richelieu Prepare half a pound of chicken quenelle force-meat in the usual manner (see p. 59), form this into eight or ten flat oblong quenelles, and poach them carefully in stock, as before directed ; when this is done, drain them, and after making an opening on the surface, care- fully scoop out the inside of the quenelles to the depth of two-thirds of their thickness, and fill this cavity with the following preparation : —Cut an onion into very small dice, and fry lightly in a small saute- pan with a little butter ; then add a tablespoonful of truffles, also cut into very small dice, and some mushrooms in the same manner ; add a tablespoonful of Allemande sauce, a little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and a small piece of glaze; stir the whole over the fire for five minutes, and then use as directed above. When the preparation with which the quenelles have been filled has cooled, spread a layer of force-meat over each ; then place them in a saute-pan with a little butter, rub them over carefully with a paste-brush dipped in white of egg, and decorate with truffle and tongue. When about to send to table, poach the boudins by pouring some boiling consomme round them, taking care not to disturb the decoration; when they have been allowed to simmer gently by the side of the fire for about ten minutes, drain, glaze lightly, and dish up in a close circle ; pour some Richelieu ragofit (see p. 47) under them, and serve. Note.—This entree may also be served with a pur£e of mush- rooms, truffles, or with scallops of fat livers.