i8 THE MODERN COOK spring water. Stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and after having kept it gently boiling for twenty minutes (observing that it be not thicker than the consistence of common white sauce), proceed to mix in one quarter of a pound of sweet fresh butter, taking care to stir the sauce quickly the whole time of the operation. Should it appear to turn oily, add now and then a teaspoon ful of cold spring water. Finish with the juice of half a lemon, and salt to taste. Then pass the sauce through a tammy into a large bain-marie for use. Note.—This kind of sauce should not be made above twenty minutes before it is wanted, as, from its particular delicacy, when exposed much longer to heat of any kind, it is liable to be decom- posed. Should this occur, it may be remedied by simply adding a teaspoonful of cold spring water in winter, or a small piece of clean ice in summer, and then working the sauce briskly together with a spoon. This method is efficacious in restoring any sort of butter sauce, when turned or become oily, to its original smoothness. Butter Sauce for Asparagus Prepare half a pint of sauce as directed in the foregoing recipe, and add a teaspoonful of double cream with a teaspoonful of French vinegar. This sauce is also served with cauliflower, broccoli, sea-kale, salsify, etc. Anchovy Sauce Prepare half a pint of butter sauce (see p. 17), add a good tea- spoonful of essence of anchovies to give flavour, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Plain Lobster Sauce Cut all the fleshy part of the lobster into small square dice, place them in a bain-marie with three-quarters of a pint of butter sauce (see p. 17), a little cayenne, and lemon juice, and also one ounce of lobster coral forced through a hair-sieve. Stir the sauce with a spoon on the fire till it boils, and send to table. The coral may also be pounded with a little butter, and after being rubbed through a sieve or tammy worked into the sauce. Either method may be adopted, but the latter is generally preferred. Plain Shrimp Sauce Take half a pint of picked shrimps, half a pint of butter sauce (see p. 17), a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon juice. Stir these together in a small stew-pan over the fire, and serve. Fennel Sauce Chop and blanch one dessertspoonful of fennel to colour the sauce of a bright green, and put it into a bain-marie containing half a pint of butter sauce (see p. 17). Add a little pepper, salt, and lemon juice.