THE MODERN COOK 114 a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a little lemon juice, and a pinch of cayenne; work the sauce well together on the fire, and then add twelve button-mushrooms, the same quantity of blanched oysters or mussels, and an equal proportion of very small quenelles of whiting; cover the turbot with the sauce, and garnish it round with glazed crofitons of fried bread. Turbot a la Bechamel Prepare half a pint of good, rich cream, Bechamel sauce (see p. 3); put the flakes of some boiled turbot in it, toss them lightly together on the fire, serve the turbot piled up on the dish in the form of a dome, and garnish it round with potato croquettes, fleurons of puff paste, or crofitons of bread. This method of dressing turbot, as well as turbot a la creme au gratin, is useful when some of this fish has been left over; neverthe- less the sauces, in both cases, really deserve that the turbot should be boiled for the express purpose. Turbot dressed as above may also be served in a vol-au-vent. Turbot a la Marechale Prepare a very small turbot as for Matelote Normande (see p. 113), drain it and set it on a dish to cool; then spread it over on both sides with some reduced Allemande sauce; shake some fine bread-crumbs over this, and after dipping it in a beaten egg seasoned with a little salt, bread-crumb it over again thoroughly. About twenty minutes before dinner, place the turbot in a frying-basket, and fry it in a convenient-sized pan, containing some clean smoking fat. As soon as the coating on the turbot is coloured to a very light- brown colour, take the fish out of the fat on to a cloth, press it lightly with a clean napkin in order to absorb any grease there may be on it, and placing it on a baking-sheet, keep it warm till required to be dished up. Put the turbot then on a dish, and pour round the following sauce Reduce the liquor in which the turbot has been cooked, and add to it half a pint of Allemande sauce, and mix in a pat of anchovy butter, some green Ravigote, lemon juice, and cayenne. Next garnish round with eighteen quenelles of whiting shaped with two dessertspoons, one half of which must be coloured with lobster coral and the other with some black truffles chopped very fine, and mixed in the quenelle force-meat previous to their being shaped. Send to table some of the sauce as usual in a boat. Fillets of Turbot a lTndienne Cut about two pounds of turbot into neatly-trimmed fillets or scallops, set them carefully in a deep sauffl-pan with two ounces of fresh butter and two teaspoonfuls of curry paste; put the lid on the saute-pan, and place it on a slow fire or in the oven to simmer gently for twenty minutes; then take it out, and add three-quarters of a pint of Veloute sauce (see p. 3), and set the whole to boil