QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS IN GENERAL 59 being considered by them more delicate and less liable to produce fermentation in warm weather; however, bread panada has the advantage of not collapsing, as is the case with the pate h. choux panada, if prepared some time before the quenelle in which it is used be eaten. Preparation of Calf’s Udder The udder is an elongated piece of fat-looking substance attached to the inner part of a leg of veal. It is easily separated from the meat by a knife, and should then be bound round with twine in the shape of a sausage, so as to prevent it from falling to pieces on taking it out of the stock-pot; the udder so tied up is then put into the stock-pot to boil. Having allowed the dressed udder time to cool and get firm, either on the ice or otherwise, pare off the outside with a knife, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar; then rub it through a wire-sieve with a wooden spoon, and put it on a plate upon the ice to cool, in order that it may be quite firm when required for use. Note.—The two foregoing preparations being the basis of a great variety of force-meats, it is essential that they should be well under- stood before attempting the following more complicated amalga- mations. It should also be observed that all meat and fish intended for quenelles must be forced through a wire-sieve by rubbing it vigorously with the back of a wooden spoon, and then be kept on ice till used. Quenelle of Fowl Take of panada and prepared udder, or fresh butter, one ounce of each; to these add eight ounces of prepared fillets of chicken, as directed above, and pound all three together in a mortar; when they are well mixed, add salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, a little pepper, and one egg; pound the whole together till thoroughly mixed, then add a tablespoonful of Bechamel or Supreme sauce. Pound the whole thoroughly and quickly, and after having taken the force-meat out of the mortar and put it into a kitchen basin, keep it in a cool place until wanted for use. Previous to taking the quenelle up out of the mortar, its consist- ency should be thus ascertained. Take a piece of the force-meat the size of a large nut, roll it with a little flour into the form of a round ball, put it into a small stew-pan half full of boiling water; place it by the side of the fire to simmer for three minutes, after which take it out and cut it in halves; taste it in order to ascertain if it be correctly seasoned, and see that when cut asunder the inner parts present a smooth, light, compact surface. Quenelle of Fillets of Grouse, Pheasant, or Partridge; Quenelle of Rabbit or Hare The process for making these is precisely similar to the foregoing, substituting, of course, the respective sort of game required for fowl. It requires, however, the addition of a tablespoonful of strong