i88 THE MODERN COOK drain it on a sieve, and afterwards on a clean napkin, cut it into pieces two inches long, and put this into a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a small piece of glaze, a gill of good white sauce, mignonette pepper, and a little salt; toss the whole well together over the fire until quite hot, and then use it to place round the remove, likewise some truffles, and tongue cut into small circular scallops; these are to be warmed in a little half- glaze, and placed round the remove in alternate groups with the macaroni; glaze the saddle of lamb before serving, and send to table with it a sauce-boat containing some of the clarified and reduced stock in which the lamb has been braised, to be handed round with the remove. CALVES’-HEAD AND OX-CHEEKS, Etc. Calf’s=Head a l’Anglaise Procure half a calfs-head, bone it in the manner described for preparing mock-turtle soup (see p. 95); then wash it thoroughly in cold water, after which put it on the fire in a large stew-pan with cold water, and as soon as it boils, skim it well, and allow it to boil for five minutes, then take it up and put it into cold water to cool. Next drain it on a cloth, cut the ear out, leaving a sufficient base round it to allow it to stand up; next cut the cheek, etc., into two inches square round the angles, and pare off any rough skin there may be about them; this done, proceed to rub each piece of calfs-head with lemon juice, then place the whole, including the tongue, in a large stew-pan, with carrot, onion, celery, parsley, herbs, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a little sherry or Madeira, and a pint of good white stock, and set the whole to braise gently on a moderate fire for about two hours. When the pieces of calfs-head are done, drain, and dish them up in a close circle round the tongue (previously trimmed, glazed, and placed in the centre of the dish); then cut the brains into scallops, and place them round the outside of the dish, and at one end place the ear, previously trimmed and curled; pour some parsley and butter over the whole, and send to table. The calf’s ear should be trimmed as follows: — First drain it upon a napkin, then scrape off all the glutinous surface from the thin part with the edge of a spoon, leaving the white gristly membrane quite clear; wash it in warm water, put it back upon the napkin, and then slit it into narrow strips, taking care not to run the knife through the ends, but merely from the inner part to within half an inch of the point, so that, when the ear is turned down, it may present the appearance of a looped frill. It is customary to send a piece of boiled streaky bacon to table when calf’s-head is intended to be eaten plain. A boatful of Devil’s sauce (see p. 22), as an accessory to plain calf’s-head, is generally preferred to parsley and butter, the latter being considered too insipid.