464 THE MODERN COOK the apple marmalade, cover in the top with a thin circular piece of bread dipped in butter, place the charlotte on a baking-sheet, and bake it in a rather quick oven until nicely browned; when done, turn it out on to a dish, glaze it on the top with sifted sugar, and brown for a few minutes in the oven; pour some diluted apricot jam round the base, and serve. Apple Charlotte No. 2 The apples in this case must be cut up thinly and placed in a stew-pan containing one and a half ounces of melted butter, four ounces of castor sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and a pinch of cinnamon powder; toss the whole over the fire until the apples begin to melt; then add a quarter of a pound of apricot jam, toss the whole gently together, and place this preparation in the centre of a charlotte mould, lined as directed in the last recipe. Bake in the same manner. Charlotte a la Parisienne First bake a thin sheet of Genoese mixture, and when this has become thoroughly cold, proceed to cut it out into oblong squares; also some half-moon or crescent shapes of an equal size, in order that these may closely fit in with each other, so as to cover the bottom of a charlotte mould; a circular piece must also be prepared, with which to finish the centre. All these pieces must be glazed over with icing prepared in two colours—one half being pink, amber, green, or chocolate, while the other half is to be white. With the above line the mould, and then fill the centre with any kind of cream described from p. 459 onwards. Pear Charlotte a TAllemande Peel, quarter, and core two pounds of baking pears; stew them in half a pint of water with four to six ounces of sugar, some lemon- peel, and cinnamon, until done. The pears must then be drained, and when comparatively dry, must be tossed in a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of red-plum or damson jam, used to fill in the centre of a bread-lined charlotte mould, and then baked; and, on the charlotte being dished up, some honey, diluted with orange- flower water (warm), may be poured round the base before the dish is sent to table. Peach Charlotte a la Fran^aise Put about two pounds of not overripe peaches, cut into quarters, skinned, and the kernels taken from the stones, in a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of peach marmalade; toss the whole over the fire until the pieces of peach are just barely warmed through; then with this preparation fill a lined charlotte mould—brioche being used for the purpose instead of bread. When this charlotte is sent to table, some currant jelly, diluted with a glass of noyau, should be poured round the base of the dish before serving.