352 THE MODERN COOK Cucumber a l’Espagnole Cut a medium-sized cucumber into lengths of about two inches, scoop out all the seeds, pare off the skins, and trim them round and smooth at the ends; parboil them in water and salt for five minutes, and then drain them. Fill each piece of cucumber with some quenelle force-meat of chicken (see p. 59); place them in neat order in a deep stew-pan lined with thin layers of fat bacon, and cover with the same; moisten with consomme, and leave to simmer gently over a slow fire for about half an hour; when tender, drain and dish up in a pyramidal form, pour some bright Espagnole sauce over, and serve. Jerusalem Artichokes Wash and scrape one to two pounds of Jerusalem artichokes thoroughly in plenty of water, cut them in the form of large olives or small pears; boil them in water with a little salt and demon juice for about twenty minutes; when done, drain and dish up neatly, pour some Butter sauce (see p. 17) over, and serve. Jerusalem Artichokes a ITtalienne Take one and a half pounds of artichokes, scrub and peel and place them in a saute-pan thickly spread with butter; season with mignonette pepper, nutmeg, salt, and lemon juice; moisten with a little consomme, put the lid on, and leave to simmer very gently over a slow fire for about half an hour. Roll them in their glaze, dish up, pour some Italian sauce round, and serve. White Haricot Beans a la Maitre d’Hotel Soak half a pound of dried haricots all night. Put a large stew- pan, half filled with cold water, on the fire to boil; add the beans, with a pat of butter and a little salt, and boil until they are tender; drain them in a colander; then put them into a stew-pan with about one ounce of fresh butter, a little pepper and salt, some chopped parsley, and lemon juice; toss well together over the fire until well mixed, then dish up with croutons round them, and serve. Flageolet Beans a la Poulette Blanch and cook in salted water one pint of green flageolets. String and cook in Salted water half a pound of small French beans or Jersey beans cut into lozenge shapes. Scrape or peel thinly half a bunch of young carrots, cook them, finish them in a little rich stock, then glaze them with a little meat glaze and chopped parsley. Toss the flageolets in a saute-pan with a little butter over the fire, and enough white sauce and cream to moisten them, and reheat; then add half the French beans previously tossed in butter, and about a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Season with pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, and a pinch of castor sugar. Dish up in an earthenware cocotte dish, and garnish with the remainder of French beans (tossed in butter) so arranged as to form a border. Garnish