DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 141 the back part of the head, just below the gills, then loosen the skin on each side of the fish, just at the commencement of the upper dorsal fin, by inserting the point of a small knife, and with the right hand pull the skin off sharply, first on one side and then on the other. When the fish is skinned and trimmed, turn the tail round into its mouth and fasten tightly; dip each fish into some beaten egg, and cover it with fine bread-crumbs. A quarter of an hour before dinner, fry them a golden colour in some fat heated for the purpose, dish them on a fancy paper with fried parsley, and send to table with a boatful of either of the following sauces: Anchovy, Dutch, Shrimp, or Plain Butter. Broiled Whitings Trim and score the whitings on both sides, rub them over with oil, and boil them on a gridiron previously rubbed with whitening; when broiled on one side, turn them over on the other, taking care to keep them a light colour; when done, dish them, and send to table with a boatful of either of the following sauces : Dutch, white Ravigote, Venetian, brown Oyster sauce, or Maitre d’HStel. Note.—Whitings in cases with fine herbs, stuffed and baked H la Villeroi, a la Cardinal, etc., are dressed in the same manner as mullets. CHAR, LAMPREY, EELS, AND CARP Char is in season from July till October, and forms a most, delicious variety for the table in the summer season. When perfectly fresh, it makes perhaps the best water souchet of any fish.1 Char a la Genoise Boil one or more of the fish in salt and water, and when done, skin and glaze them; dish them up, sauce with some Genoise sauce (see p. 9), garnish with a border of small quenelles of whiting, and crayfish tails, and send to table. Char in Matelote Trim the char intended to be dressed, place them in an oval stew-pan with an onion and carrot cut in thin slices, also a bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme, a few sprigs of parsley and a blade of mace, a few peppercorns, some parings of mushrooms, and a little salt; moisten with a little stock or claret, and set the whole to stew gently for about twenty minutes or half an hour, according to the size <jf the fish. As soon as the fish are done, drain them on a wet napkin ; remove their skin with a knife, and place them neatly on the dish. Then reduce the liquor in which the char have been stewed (after first being strained and skimmed) with half a pint of brown sauce ; when the sauce is reduced, add a little nutmeg, a pat of butter, and some lemon juice, and pass it through a tammy or sieve into a stew- 1 Water Souchet is described on page 120.