THE MODERN COOK 294 hand fillets to the right, and the left-hand to the left. Fill the centre with a rich Financiere ragout (see p. 44), pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. Note.—Fillets of fowls, larded and prepared as the foregoing, may also be served with purees of endive, green peas, asparagus, k la Macedoine, with stewed peas, slices of cucumbers, asparagus peas, etc. Fillets of Fowl a la d’Uxelles Trim the fillets of one or more fowls. Cover with a coating of d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5), over which, when it has become firmly set by cooling, bread-crumb twice—once after dipping the fillets in beaten egg, and the second time in clarified butter. They must then be gently patted into shape with the blade of a knife, and placed in a saute-pan with some clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the fillets on both sides a golden colour, then drain, glaze lightly, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with button-mushrooms tossed in a little Allemande sauce (see p. 3), pour some half-glaze under the fillets, and serve. Chicken Quenelles a 1’Essence Prepare three-quarters of a pound of quenelle force-meat (see p. 59) with some fillets of fowl, in which should be incorporated half a gill of reduced Allemande sauce ; this should then be moulded into quenelles in the following manner First, take up as much of the force-meat as will fill a silver tablespoon, smooth it over the top in a dome-like form with the blade of a knife dipped in hot water; next, with another spoon of the same size and shape, which must be dipped in hot water, scoop the quenelle out of the spoon, and lay it upon its under side at the bottom of a deep saute-pan, previously spread with butter for the purpose ; repeat this until the whole of the force-meat is used up, and then place a covering of buttered paper over them, and pour sufficient boiling consomme in at the side of the stew-pan to float the quenelles. About ten minutes’ gentle simmer- ing by the side of the fire will suffice to cook them ; they must then be drained with care, and dished up in a close circle; pour some bright consomme of fowl (boiled down to nearly the consistency of half-glaze) under them, and send to table. Note.—Quenelles of fowl prepared in this manner may also be served with the following sauces: Supreme, Italian, Perigueux, Allemande, Bechamel, and Richelieu. Chicken Quenelles a la Toulouse For this entrde it will be necessary, when about to mould the quenelles, first to shake some flour over a slab or table, and then to take up six tablespoonfuls of the force-meat and drop them separately upon the slab; next shake a little flour over them, and proceed to roll each into the form of an egg; these must then be placed in rows in a deep saute-pan (previously spread with butter), not touching each