55 BRAISES, PO&LES, MIREPOIX, ETC. Pheasant or Partridge Panada Pheasant or partridge panada is prepared in the same manner as described for making the chicken panada, game being substituted for poultry. Chicken or Game Custards Cut a small fowl into quarters, take the lungs away from the back- bone, wash the fowl, and then place it in a stew-pan with a little parsley, chervil, half a stick of celery, one small onion, and a turnip. Fill the stew-pan with three pints of cold water, place it on the fire, and as soon as it boils skim it thoroughly, and set it by the side of the fire to remain boiling for an hour; after which strain the broth into a basin through a napkin, and use it in the following manner :— According to the number of custard-cups required to be filled, place so many yolks of eggs in a basin; to these add the same number of custard-cupfuls of prepared chicken broth, and with a spoon or fork beat these together in order to mix them thoroughly; then pass them by pressure through the tammy, fill the custard-cups, steam them in the usual manner, and send them up quickly. These custards should be eaten very soon after being made as they become heavy when warmed a second time. Venison Panada Take a quarter of a pound of the lean part of either a roasted haunch or neck of venison, mince it, and then pound it with two ounces of the crumb of a French roll which has been soaked in good broth; dilute with a little consomme, and pass the panada through a tammy or fine sieve as usual. Just before sending this panada up warm it carefully so as not to allow it to get too hot, as it would then be liable to become somewhat decomposed and rough and rather indigestible for a delicate stomach. BRAISES, POELES, MIREPOIX, Etc. Braise for General Purposes Take one pound of fillet of veal, half a pound of fat Yorkshire ham, one head of celery, and the same number of onions and carrots ; cut all these into small square pieces, add a bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, one clove of garlic, two blades of mace, and half-a-dozen cloves; throw these ingredients into a middle-sized stew-pan in which has been melted down three or four ounces of fresh butter ; put the stew- pan on the fire, stirring its contents frequently with a wooden spoon, while the vegetables, etc., are frying. When this mixture becomes slightly browned, pour into the pan a gill of Cognac brandy, allow it to simmer for five minutes, and then add two quarts of common stock. Keep the braise gently boiling for an hour and a half, then strain it off through a tammy cloth (using considerable pressure) into a kitchen-pan, and put it away in the larder, to be used for purposes that will be hereafter explained.