CAKES IN GENERAL 397 remove the tops from the patties, pour a little thin Espagnole or Italian sauce in each, cover them with puff-paste tops (made similar to croustade tops), and serve. Note.—Croustades and patties are garnished with scallops or ragouts of chicken, game, all kinds of fillets of fish, the tails of cray- fish, prawns, and shrimps; with oysters in scallops or small dice, and also with lobster cut up in small dice. They may be sauced either with Supreme, Bechamel or Allemande, Lobster, Oyster or Crayfish sauces. CAKES IN GENERAL Brioche Paste Ingredients : i lb. flour, 4 oz. butter, £ oz. German yeast, 1 teaspoonful each salt and sugar, and 3 or 4 eggs. Put one-fourth part of the flour on the slab, spread it out to form a well, then place the yeast in the centre and proceed to dissolve it with a little tepid water; then add sufficient water to mix the whole into a rather soft paste; knead this into the form of a round ball, score it round the sides with a knife, and leave to rise in a rather warm place. This is termed setting the sponge. Put the rest of the flour on the slab and make a well in the centre; then place the salt, sugar, and a teaspoonful of water to dissolve these, after which the butter (melted) must be added; add the eggs, and work the whole together with the hands until well mixed, first working it between the hands, and then rubbing it with both fists held flat 011 the slab, and moving them to and fro, so as to thoroughly beat out any lumps in the paste. By the time the paste is mixed, the sponge will probably have risen sufficiently—that is, to about three times its original size; when spread out on the paste, it should look like a sponge, from which it takes its name. Mix both together and knead well. It is usual to make this kind of paste late in the evening previous to the day on which it is required. If the paste, when finished, appears to be full of small air-bubbles, and is perfectly elastic to the touch, it is certain to be well made, and, when baked, will be both light and of a bright clear colour. If the paste is intended to be made into one brioche only, take five-sixths of it, mould this into the form of a round ball or cushion, and place in a plain greased mould or paper case with the smooth surface uppermost; press it down in the case with the knuckles, and, after moulding the remaining piece of paste in a similar manner, first wet the surface of the other part over, and then, after inserting the pointed end of a paste-brush into the centre of that portion of the brioche which has been already placed in the case, press the top down upon it; egg the brioche over, score the sides slightly in a slanting direction, place on a baking-sheet and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as the brioche begins to rise, and has browned a little, cover over with a sheet of paper. Note.—Brioches may be varied in shape when intended to be