265 SWEETBREADS Sweetbreads a la Marechale These must be seasoned with a little pepper and salt, masked over with a thin coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and afterwards bread-crumbed; they should then be placed in circular order in a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and fried a light golden colour. When done, dish up in close order, and let the centre be filled with Toulouse ragout (see p. 43). Sweetbreads a la Soubise Prepare and dish up these according to the previous recipe; fill the centre with Soubise sauce, and serve. This may also be served with all kinds of garnishes of dressed vegetables, purees of vegetables, or any kind of sauce served with cutlets. Sweetbreads a la Poulette Blanch one or more sweetbreads in the usual manner, and cut them into circular slices, place in neat order in a stew-pan with a little clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and lemon juice; simmer over a moderate fire for about ten minutes, and when done, remove into a stew-pan containing a good gill of sauce a la Poulette, add some chopped mushrooms or truffles, toss the whole together gently over the fire until sufficiently hot, and then dish up in a pyramidal form, and serve with a border of croquettes of potatoes round the entrde. Note.—Sweetbreads a la Russe and k la Provengale are prepared in the same manner as veal cutlets under the same names. Croquettes of Sweetbreads Blanch one or more sweetbreads and put them in a small stew- pan with two shalots, a little mignonette pepper, salt, half a bay leaf, and a sprig of thyme; moisten with a little stock and put them to braise gently for about twenty minutes; when done, drain on a plate to get cold, after which cut up into very small dice, and mix with some reduced Allemande sauce; season with a little pepper and salt and grated nutmeg; stir the whole gently over the fire for two minutes, spread the preparation on a dish about an inch thick, and put it in the larder to get cold. The croquettes must then be shaped, egged, and bread-crumbed, and fried in the same manner as directed for veal croquettes. Note.—Some red tongue, mushrooms, or truffles, cut into small dice, may also be mixed in with the sweetbreads. Calf’s Ears a la Tortue Procure a pair of white calf’s ears (cut with a broad base), blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, after which plunge them in cold water, and wipe dry; then hold them on the point of a skewer over heat to singe off any remaining hairs; wipe clean, rub over with lemon juice, and braise in some white stock for about an hour and