THE MODERN COOK 282 their liquor (previously reduced in quantity by boiling), and a pint of Espagnole sauce, a piece of glaze, and a squeeze of lemon juice; leave to simmer for ten minutes, and then dish up the entree with fried croutons of bread round it. Note.—This method of dressing chickens or fowls may be varied by substituting mussels, cockles, olives, truffles, mushrooms, or morels for the oysters. Chicken a la Financiere Prepare the pieces of chicken as before, and when they are fried brown, pour off the fat; add a rich Financiere ragout (see p. 44); simmer the whole together on the fire for five minutes, and then dish up the entree as directed in previous recipes; pour the ragout over it, garnish with croutons, and serve. Chicken a la Provengale Cut a large onion into rings, put into a stew-pan with three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and fry lightly; then add a chicken cut up and trimmed as for a fricassee; season with mignonette pepper, salt, a bouquet garni, and a clove of garlic; cover and leave the chicken to simmer briskly over a moderate fire for about half an hour. Put into a small stew-pan some chopped truffles, shalots, mushrooms, and parsley; moisten with a tablespoonful of salad oil and a glass of Madeira; stew these on the fire for five minutes, and then boil the whole down to a glaze. When the chicken is done, pour off all the fat, add the mushrooms, etc., a piece of glaze and three-quarters of a pint of Tomato sauce (see p. 7); simmer the whole together for ten minutes over the fire, then dish up in a conical form, pour the ragout over, and serve. • Chicken a la Lyonnaise Cut up a plump tender chicken, and fry in butter as directed on p. 281; when done, pour off all the fat, add some Lyonnaise sauce (see p. 7), simmer the whole together on the fire for ten minutes, and serve. Chicken a la Diable Draw and singe a tender chicken, and then twist the legs inside neatly through the sides without tearing the skin; cut through the breast-bone lengthwise into halves; take out all the bones, season with pepper and salt, rub over with clarified butter, and broil on both sides a light brown; when done, dish up and glaze over, pour some Devil’s sauce (see p. 22) under, and serve. Chicken a la Tartare Bone a plump chicken, and cut up as in the previous recipe, season with pepper and salt, rub over with beaten egg, bread- crumb the pieces, then dip in clarified butter, and bread-crumb over again ; pat the bread-crumbs close together with the blade of a knife, broil the pieces carefully to prevent their browning too deeply, and