33i PARTRIDGES Boudins of Partridge a la d’Orsay Prepare about half a pound of quenelle force-meat with the fillets of one or more partridges (see p. 59). Take one ounce of truffles, about the same proportion of mushrooms and red tongue; cut all these into even-shaped and very small dice, and add a large table- spoonful of puree of mushrooms (see p. 30) to the force-meat; mix thoroughly, and mould this preparation into six or eight oblong boudins, place these upon similar sized pieces of buttered paper laid on a stew-pan lid, and slip them off into a saute-pan containing some boiling stock; leave to simmer gently by the side of the fire for about twenty minutes, and when done through, drain, trim them square, mask over with some reduced Supreme sauce, garnish with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), and serve. Boudins of Partridge au Madere Prepare eight ounces of force-meat with the fillets of one or more partridges (see p. 59) and mould into boudins as directed above, poach in the same manner, and when done, mask with some Madeira sauce (see p. 4) mixed with some partridge glaze; place a larded lamb’s sweetbread in the centre of these, fill the centre of the entree with some prawn tails tossed in a little glaze and lobster coral, pour some Madeira sauce round, and serve. Crepinettes of Partridge a la d’Estaing To the quantity of quenelle force-meat named in the previous recipe add two ounces. of fat bacon (previously boiled) and one ounce of French truffles, both cut into small dice, also a tablespoonful of Espagnole and a small piece of partridge glaze (in a liquid state), and season with a little cayenne ; mix well together, and then drop this preparation in tablespoonfuls upon a floured slab ; mould the crepinettes into the form of so many eggs, and wrap each of these in a proportionate sized piece of pig’s caul; flatten slightly by pressing upon them with the fingers, dip them in clarified butter, and fry lightly over a brisk fire; drain, and dish up in a close circle, pour round some half-glaze of partridges mixed with a small pat of butter and the juice of half a lemon, and serve. Souffles of Partridge k la Royale Prepare about half a pound of purde of partridge (see p. 330), warm it, then add three yolks of eggs, whisk the three whites and mix them in lightly also. Fill eight or ten small plaited fancy paper cases with this preparation, pass a soft paste-brush dipped in half-glaze over their surfaces, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes; then dish up on a napkin, and serve. These souffles may be served in the place of patties, aftdr the fish.