THE MODERN COOK 53 allowed to mix with the butter; add four ounces of sifted flour, and work it with a wooden spoon. The roux should then be placed on a moderate fire, and continually stirred with the spoon until it becomes somewhat softer; then take the spoon out, wipe the sides of the stew-pan, put the lid on it, and place it in a moderately heated oven, and there let it remain for about half an hour, taking care to stir it every ten minutes, and to watch it closely in order to prevent the possibility of its getting burnt or coloured, an accident which would render it useless for white sauce. At the expiration of the time above named, or before, if the roux be sufficiently done (which may be easily ascertained by its becoming thinner), it should be taken out of the oven and put aside until wanted for use. This roux is used for thickening Veloute or white sauce. Brown Roux, or Thickening for Brown Sauce This is made exactly in the same way as the white roux, with the exception that it should remain longer in the oven, to allow it to acquire a fawn or buff colour, before it is taken out. When the roux is considered to be done, a shalot may be thrown in, in order to diminish the action of the heat of the copper stew-pan on its contents, and for the purpose of imparting flavour to it. This roux is used to thicken Espagnole or brown sauce. QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS IN GENERAL Bread Panada for Quenelles Take a quarter of a pound of the crumb of two new French rolls and steep it in tepid water for ten minutes, then put it into a napkin and wring it tightly in order to remove the water from the bread. Put the crumb into a stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a little salt, and a pint of white stock or milk. Put these on the fire, con- tinuing to stir the panada the whole time with a wooden spoon until it assumes the appearance of paste, and no longer adheres to the bottom of the stew-pan; then add a yolk of egg, and turn it out on a plate, smooth it over the surface with the blade of a knife, and, having covered it with a round piece of buttered paper, place it in the larder until required for use. Pate a Choux Panada To half a pint of white chicken stock add one ounce of fresh butter and a little salt; put the stew-pan containing these on the fire; as soon as it begins to simmer, mix in with the afore-mentioned ingredients two ounces of sifted flour, and by continuing to stir this batter on the fire for five minutes, it will become a delicately firm paste, which must be worked over the fire until it freely leaves the sides of the pan. Then take a yolk of egg and quickly mix into the batter; put it on a plate, cover it with a buttered paper, and keep it in the cool till wanted for use. This kind of panada is preferred by some cooks to bread panada,