PUDDINGS IN GENERAL 449 mingle this lightly with the mixture, and pour it, with alternate layers of sliced preserved apricots, into a well-buttered pudding mould, cover with buttered paper, and steam for forty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with fruit sauce. Mousseline Pudding Two oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, 1 oz. flour, vanilla essence, J lemon rind grated, Mousseline sauce. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin, and work in gradually the yolks of eggs, then stir in slowly the flour (sifted). Add the grated lemon rind, a few drops of vanilla essence, and lastly the stiffly whisked whites of eggs; this must be worked lightly into the mixture. Pour it into a well-buttered charlotte mould, butter a paper and place on top. Steam very slowly from one to one and a half hours. When just set, turn out carefully on to a hot dish, pour the Mousseline sauce round the pudding, and send to table quickly. French Prune Pudding One lb. French or Californian prunes, J a lemon, 1 small glass port wine, 1 small piece cinnamon, 4 oz. loaf-sugar, 4 eggs, 1 oz. cornflour, 1 pt. milk. Stew the prunes gently with sufficient water to barely cover, adding also the sugar, port wine, cinnamon, and the thinly cut rind of lemon and its juice. When tender, take out the cinnamon and lemon rind, stone the prunes, and rub them through a sieve. Crack half the stones and chop the kernels, add them to the prune pulp, and let cool a little. Whisk the egg whites to a stiff froth, and stir them carefully with the cornflour into the prune pulp; put this into a buttered souffle dish, dredge with castor sugar, and bake for about thirty minutes in a fairly hot oven. Prepare a custard with the egg yolks and the milk by boiling the latter and adding the eggs; stir over the fire till the liaison is formed. Sweeten to taste and flavour with lemon vanilla. Strain, and serve with the souffle. Chocolate Pudding Six oz. cake-crumbs (preferably sponge-cake), 2 oz. flour, £ tea- spoonful baking powder, 4 oz. grated chocolate, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, l teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1^ gills milk. Sift the flour into a basin, then add the baking powder and the cake-crumbs. Mix well together, and stir in the milk and chocolate, previously heated. Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs one at a time, and beat up thoroughly. Then stir in lightly the other ingredients, also the vanilla essence, and mix well. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered pudding mould or cake tin, and cover with a buttered paper. Steam gently for one and a half hours; when done, unmould on to a hot dish, and serve with vanilla custard.