CREAMS AND CHARLOTTES 463 and perfectly colourless jelly, previous to being stuck to the sides of the mould. When the mould is thus ornamented, pour some of the same jelly into it, and by gently and gradually moving the mould round (side-ways) in the ice, cause the jelly to form a thin coating over the almonds. When the jelly is firm, make another coating, about the third of an inch thick, with some pistachio cream (see p. 461); and when this is firmly set, fill up the cavity with some cream h la Romaine (see p. 462). Note.—An infinite variety of creams, usually designated “en surprise,” may be thus produced by using two different preparations of different creams, such as currant and orange-flower, apricot and vanilla, peach and noyau, chocolate and white coffee, etc. Currant and Raspberry Transparent Cheese Pick the stalks from half a pint of ripe red currants and one pint of raspberries; put these into a small preserving pan with four or five ounces of castor sugar and a gill of water; stir the whole over the fire, and keep it boiling for about five minutes; remove the scum as it rises to the surface, and then rub the whole through a hair-sieve into a large basin; add half an ounce of leaf gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water, and then pour it into a jelly mould set on ice. When this kind of cheese is set firm, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the cheese out on a dish; fill the well or cylinder with some stiffly whipped cream, and serve. Apricot Cheese a la Chantilly Remove the stones from twelve ripe apricots, and put them into a small preserving pan with six ounces of loaf-sugar and a gill of water. Stir over a brisk fire until the whole of the fruit is entirely dissolved; then rub it through a hair-sieve into a large basin, add half an ounce of leaf gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water, and fill a jelly mould (ready set on ice) with the preparation. When the cheese is set firm, turn it out on a dish, and fill the centre with whipped cream. Note.—These fruit cheeses may be made of every kind of fruit already directed to be used for both jellies and creams, and also with pears, apples, and quinces. Apple Charlotte No. 1 Prepare some apple marmalade as follows:—Peel, core, and slice up two pounds of apples, and place in a stew-pan with four ounces of sugar, one ounce of butter, and some lemon-peel and cinnamon tied together; moisten with a little water, place the lid on the stew- pan, and leave the apples to boil until reduced to a puree. Line a plain round charlotte mould at the bottom with small thin circular pieces of bread, dipped in clarified butter and placed so as to overlap each other until the bottom of the mould is well covered. Next cut some oblong squares of thin bread, also dipped in clarified butter, and arrange these against the sides of the mould overlapping each other—in order that they may hold firmly. Fill the cavity with