384 THE MODERN COOK Normandy Sandwiches Mix finely chopped fresh shrimps or prawns with a little anchovy cream (anchovy paste mixed with whipped cream), and spread this between thinly cut and lightly buttered slices of white bread. Make up into neatly shaped portions, and dish up. Tartare Sandwiches Chop finely some lean cooked ham, also about a third the quantity of French gherkins and a few capers. Mix them with a little stiff Mayonnaise and tarragon vinegar. Spread the preparation between thinly cut slices of buttered bread, and make up into small sandwiches—diamond, finger, or oval shapes. Dish up, and garnish with fan-shaped slices of gherkin and parsley. Foie=Gras Sandwiches Turn out a tin or terrine of foie-gras (goose-liver), remove the fat, cut into thin slices, taking care not to break the slices. Prepare thin slices of bread and butter; lay the foie-gras between two slices, trim, press them, and stamp out into neatly shaped slices. Dish up tastefully, and garnish. Milanese Sandwiches Prepare some thin slices of slightly toasted and buttered bread; spread one side with a layer of stiff Tartare sauce; lay upon this some slices of cooked game and some finely shredded celery. Place two together, press and trim neatly, cut into desired shapes, and dish up in a circle. Garnish the dish with aspic jelly cut into dice, and small salad. Cheese Sandwiches Prepare some thin slices of bread and butter, spread the buttered sides with a little mixed mustard, sprinkle thickly with grated Gruyere or cheddar cheese, season with white pepper, salt, and a pinch of paprika pepper. Press the two covered sides of the slices together, cut them into oblongs, dish up neatly, and garnish with parsley. Potted Pheasant a la Royale Truss a pheasant for boiling, and braise it with a few slices of ham in some well-seasoned wine mirepoix; when done, drain it upon a dish, strain the liquor into a stew-pan, take off the fat, and boil it down to glaze. Meanwhile chop and pound all the meat from the breast of the pheasant with the ham, and add two ounces of clarified fresh butter, one and a half gills of good sauce, and the glaze; season with cayenne pepper, a little nutmeg and salt, pound the whole thoroughly, and rub this preparation through a fine wire-sieve on to a dish. Next fill some small round or oval earthenware pipkins with this preparation, smooth the surface over with a spoon dipped in water, place in a covered stew-pan and steam for about half an hour. The puree must then be allowed to cool; press down the meat in the