15 SAUCES IN GENERAL When this sauce is served with broiled fish add to it, just before sending to table, a little essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon juice. Claremont Sauce Cut one large onion into halves, pare off the ends, cut into thin slices, and fry in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter of a fine yellow colour; drain off the butter, add a pinch of mignonette pepper, with half a pint of brown sauce and one gill of consomme. Set this to boil gently by the side of the fire, skim it, and then, when sufficiently reduced, pour it into a bain-marie for use. This sauce, as well as sauce a la Bretonne, is well calculated for making an excellent hash, either with beef, veal, or mutton. Portuguese Sauce Grate the rind of a lemon and put it into a small stew-pan with a few bruised peppercorns, some mace, six cloves, thyme, and a bay- leaf, with a glass of sherry. Simmer the whole on a slow fire for ten minutes, then add a gill of worked brown sauce and a gill of con- somme ; set this to boil gently by the side of the fire, skim it, reduce it, and pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. This sauce is used for a braised fillet of beef, or minced fillet of beef au gratin a la Portuguaise. Sicilian Sauce Chop two truffles, two shalots, half-a-dozen mushrooms, and some parsley separately; put them into a small stew-pan with a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf, one clove of garlic, and a little cayenne; moisten with a glass of sherry; set the whole to simmer gently on a slow fire for ten minutes ; add half a pint of Allemande sauce, reduce it to its proper consistency, and then put it into a bain-marie for use. Just before using this sauce add a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, the rind of half an orange,—pared extremely thin, cut into fine shreds, and blanched,—a squeeze of lemon juice, and a pinch of pounded sugar. German Sweet Sauce Stew two ounces of dried cherries in one glass of red wine, together with some bruised cinnamon, cloves, and lemon peel, for ten minutes on a slow fire; pass the whole through a tammy into a puree, and put it into a stew-pan with half a pint of reduced brown sauce and two ounces of stewed prunes. This sauce is in great request for German dishes; it improves the flavour of braised venison in its varied forms of preparation, and is preferred by many for that purpose to Poivrade or Piquante sauce. Cherry Sauce Put a small pot of black-currant jelly into a stew-pan, together with three ounces of dried cherries, a small stick of cinnamon, and half-a-dozen cloves tied up in a piece of muslin; moisten with a