ENTREES OF QUAILS AND LARKS 313 spoonful of glaze, and toss them in it over the fire; then dish up in a close circle with the legs uppermost, fill the centre with neat pieces of truffles and mushrooms, pour some Bordelaise sauce (see p. 14) over the cutlets, and serve. Quail Cutlets a la Princesse 3 quails, 2 oz. butter, \ lb. gratin farce, J pint small rissole potatoes, 1 bundle sprue, 1 gill Madere sauce, a little cream, 8 small nouille cups, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, seasoning, chopped parsley. Remove all the bones from the quails except the leg bones, then cut each in half and flatten ; fry slightly in butter, and press. When cold, spread the cut sides of each half (cutlet shape) with gratin farce, season well, egg and crumb, and fry in butter to a golden colour. Have ready the rissold potatoes, and sprue, cut up in small pieces and cooked in salted water; reheat in a little butter and cream, and season; fill the small paste cups with rissole potatoes, arrange the sprue in the centre of an entree dish, dress the cutlets round this, and the paste cups with potatoes round the base of the dish. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the potatoes and the sprue, pour a little sauce round the base of the dish, and serve the rest in a sauce-boat. Souffles of Quails au Madere Pound the meat of three quails free from skin and bone, and mix, whilst pounding, two ounces of cooked rice (rice boiled in stock and drained), and continue to pound till smooth. Rub through a fine sieve, and incorporate with the puree two yolks of eggs, a table- spoonful of meat glaze, and the necessary seasoning. Stir this into a stew-pan over the fire until it is quite hot, then add one to two truffles cut into slices, and the stiff froth of two whites of eggs. Three parts fill some buttered paper or china souffle cases, set them in a moderate oven for about ten minutes, and finish them in a sharp oven ; they will take about twenty minutes in all. Brush over the top of each with meat glaze, i.e. game glaze, and send to table with a sauce-boat of Madere sauce. Quails a la Talleyrand Fillet six quails, and with the carcases make some essence (see p. 41); trim the fillets, and stick a short bone (reserved from the legs) into them, to imitate cutlets; then place them in a stew- pan with some clarified butter. Prepare twelve fried croutons of bread cut in the shape and size of the fillets, and fill these with some farce made from the quails’ livers; prepare also some slices of fat livers, truffles, and mushrooms, and put them into a small stew-pan with a little Allemande sauce; finish some Supreme sauce by in- corporating therein the reduced essence of quails, and keep it in a small bain-marie. Just before sending to table simmer the fillets over a moderate fire, and, when done, pour off all the fat, add a little of the Supreme sauce, toss the fillets in it, and dish up as follows:— First, place six of the croutons (previously warmed in the oven) at the bottom of the dish, so that the points meet in the centre;