i86 THE MODERN COOK fricandeaux prepared for larding. Then saw off the shank-bones, as well as the projecting part of the spine-bone; cut off the tail, and truss the skirts neatly up with small skewers. Cover the lamb with buttered white paper. Two hours and a half before dinner put to roast either in the oven or in front of the fire, and about ten minutes before it is done, take off the paper; glaze it well over, then dish it up; garnish with groups of button-mushrooms, truffles, fine white cocks’-combs, and scallops of red tongue; round the whole place a border of spoon-quenelles decorated with truffles, and a lamb’s sweetbread larded between each quenelle ; sauce with good Allemande sauce; glaze the meat brightly, and send to table. Baron of Lamb Larded a la Printaniere Trim, lard, and roast a baron of lamb according to the directions contained in the foregoing recipe; dish it up, pour round it some Printaniere sauce (see p. 468), garnish a la Printanihre (p. 163) and with groups of small new potatoes first partly boiled, and afterwards fried a golden colour in clarified butter, and send to table. Baron of Lamb a la Jardiniere Prepare and roast the baron of lamb according to the preceding directions; and when dished up, garnish it round with a rich and varied Jardiniere of such vegetables as are in season; sauce the lamb round with Espagnole sauce, and send to table. Baron of Lamb a la Maitre d’Hotel Prepare the baron of lamb as previously directed, dish it up and pour round it a rich Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. n); garnish with alternate groups of small buds of cauliflowers and fried olive- shaped potatoes, and send to table. Note.—Hind-quarters of lamb should be dressed in the same manner as barons of lamb, and may therefore be garnished with every sort of sauce and garnish used for the latter. When the larding is dispensed with, the whole of the fat, as a matter of course, should be retained on the surface of the lamb to protect the meat from losing its juices. Saddle of Lamb a la Dauphine Procure a small saddle of lamb, bone it, and having laid it on the table, season the inside with pepper and salt, and stuff with about one pound' of quenelle force-meat of veal or fowl, about an inch in thickness, placing on the force-meat some fillets of tongue and truffles; after which, fold the skirts of the saddle over—so as to encase the force-meat, etc., thereby giving it a plump appearance; and in order to secure its shape, cover the saddle with a piece of buttered paper, and tie the ends with string. Then place the saddle so prepared on the drainer of an oval braising-pan, cover it with the bones and trimmings; garnish with carrot, onion, celery, parsley, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with sufficient good stock to cover the lamb, and set it to braise gently on a moderate fire for about two