THE MODERN COOK 442 of eggs are required, and with the exception of the sugar, the same directions should be followed. Note.—Souffles of peaches, nectarines, and all kinds of plums are prepared in the same manner as the above. Souffle of Raspberries Put half a pound of picked raspberries into a small preserving pan with two ounces of castor sugar; stir the whole over the fire until it has boiled for about five minutes, and then rub it through a sieve. Use about a gill of this preparation as directed for making a souffle of apricots. Note.—Souffles of currants, strawberries, or gooseberries are made in the same way. Brown=Bread Souffle a 1’Allemande Put two ounces of brown-bread crumbs into a stew-pan with a gill of cream, one ounce of castor sugar, one ounce of butter, and a little salt, and flavour it with some cinnamon powder and lemon sugar. Stir this over the fire until it boils, then remove it and add the yolks of three eggs; next whip the whites of four eggs very stiffly and mix them in lightly, then pour it into the souffle case and bake it in the usual manner; when done, shake some cinnamon sugar over it, and serve. OMELETS AND PANCAKES Omelette Souffle Put the yolks of four eggs into a large basin, add half an ounce of castor sugar, a dessertspoonful of flour, ditto of orange-flower water (or any other kind of essence or liqueur used for such purposes), and a very little salt; stir these together with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes; then whip the four whites, and mix them in lightly with the batter. Next put one ounce of butter into an omelet pan, and as soon as the butter begins to sputter, pour the whole of the omelet batter into it; set the pan in the oven and bake until brown for about twelve minutes, when it will be ready to send to table. Shake some sugar on the omelet, and serve immediately. Banana Omelet Peel four not overripe bananas, cut them into round slices (not too thin). Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet pan; when hot, put in the bananas and toss over the fire for a few minutes, then sweeten with castor sugar. Break four fresh eggs into a basin, add a tablespoonful of milk and a teaspo.onful of sugar, and beat up well. Melt an ounce of butler in an omelet pan, pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a quick fire till the eggs begin to set, then shape into an omelet. Put the prepared banana in the centre, fold in the sides of the omelet, and let it take colour; then turn out on to a hot dish, dredge with sugar, glaze, and serve.