TARTS AND FANCY PASTRIES 423 of its quantity, then added to the cherries and put aside in a small basin. Line a dozen small tartlet pans with short or tart crust (the rounds being stamped out with a fluted cutter); fill with clean rice, and bake in a moderate oven. Remove the rice, shake some fine sugar over them, and brown in the oven. Just before serving the tartlets, fill them with the cherries. Note.—Raspberries, currants, gooseberries, and all kinds of plums may be prepared for these tartlets by gently boiling them for a few minutes in a little syrup; the fruit should then be strained and the syrup reduced to one-third its original quantity, and put aside with the fruit in a small basin to fill the tartlets when baked. Puff=Paste Tartlets Give seven turns to half a pound of puff paste (see p. 393), roll out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch, and then with a circular cutter stamp out twenty rounds ; then take a small cutter to stamp out the centre of these: gather up the trimmings, knead them together, roll them out, and stamp out as many rounds as there are rings; put these on a baking-sheet, moisten the edges with a brush dipped in water, stick the rings of paste on these, shake some sugar over them with the dredger, and bake a light-fawn colour. When the tartlets are done, mask the bands or rings with a little meringue- paste, dip them in some chopped pistachios or almonds, and leave to dry. Before serving these tartlets, fill either with cherries, currants, plums, etc., prepared as before, or else with any kind of preserve. Mosaic Tartlets Prepare a dozen puff-paste tartlets as above, and fill each of them with a spoonful of apricot or greengage jam; wet round the edges, and place a mosaic of paste on the top of each, egg these over lightly, and bake a light brown ; when they are done, shake some fine sugar over, and brown for a few minutes in the oven. Parisian Loaves Prepare some small slender finger-biscuits, spread them with apricot or greengage jam, and stick two of these together; then hold one at a time on a fork, mask over slightly with some meringue paste, and with a paper forcing-bag of the same mixture draw parallel lines across the cakes in a slanting direction ; shake over some sugar, and put them in the oven to bake, or, rather, dry, a light-fawn colour. When done, insert some narrow strips of bright currant jelly, greengage jam, or apple jelly between the bars of the decoration. Marygolds Give seven turns to half a pound of puff paste, roll out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch, stamp out twenty rounds with a circular fluted cutter and put them on a baking-sheet; roll out the trimmings, and with two smaller cutters stamp out as many rings of the size of a shilling as there are cakes, and place one of these on the