293 CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE colour; when done, glaze lightly, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), pour some reduced essence of fowls under them, and serve. Note.—Fillets of fowl a la Marechale may also be served with every kind of delicate vegetable garnish, with White or Brown Italian sauce, with Marechale, Supreme, Venetian, Provengale, Perigueux, or Crayfish sauce, and also with either of the following essences: Anchovy, truffle, fine herbs, or shalot. Fillets of Fowl a la Valency Trim four to six fillets of fowl, and lay them flat upon a dish. Prepare three or four ounces of puree of truffles (see p. 30), in which incorporate a yolk of egg, and then spread this over the fillets on both sides; when the coating has become firmly set by cooling, bread-crumb the fillets over twice after they have been dipped once in egg, and the second time in clarified butter. Then place the fillets in a sautd-pan with some clarified butter; and when about to send to table, fry them a light colour on both sides, drain, and dish up closely in a circle; place the smaller fillets in a row upon the top of the inner edge of the others; fill the centre with slices of truffles, previously simmered in a little glaze and a small piece of butter; pour some Supreme sauce (see p. 10) under the entrde, and serve. Fillets of Fowl a la Royale Trim the fillets of one or more fowls, then closely lard one half of them, and decorate the rest with black truffle in the same way as described for fillets a la Parisienne (see p. 291); place these fillets in separate saute-pans, the larded ones upon thin layers of fat bacon, and moistened with some half-glaze, and the decorated fillets with two ounces of clarified butter. Just before sending to table, put both in the oven for about five minutes; then withdraw the decorated fillets, glaze the larded ones, put them back for two minutes, and glaze again. Dish up, placing alternately a larded fillet with a decorated one; fill the centre with a ragout of pieces of fat livers and truffles tossed in a little Allemande sauce; pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. Fillets of Fowl a la Financiere Cut out the fillets of one or more fowls, with the pinion-bones left adhering, trim them in the usual way, and lard closely; then place in a stew-pan upon thin layers of fat bacon ; moisten with some strong consomme, and braise in the oven or else over the fire, covered with a lid containing some live embers of charcoal,1 for about ten minutes; they must next be glazed, placed in the oven to dry the larding, and then glazed a second time. The fillets must then be dished up, and arranged in their natural order; that is, the right- 1 When cooked in the oven no charcoal embers are needed.