THE MODERN COOK 35° to glaze, gently rolling the turnips in this, with great care, to avoid breaking them. They must then be dished up in neat order, and the glaze poured over them. New Carrots a la Creme Wash and scrape a bunch of young carrots and boil them in plenty of slightly salted water till tender; drain them on a sieve or colander. Heat up in a saute-pan one ounce of butter, put in the carrots, shake them over the fire for a.few minutes, sprinkle over a dessertspoonful of flour, and moisten with a gill of white stock. Stir till it boils, then add two tablespoonfuls of cream, one table- spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and castor sugar to taste, and cook gently for ten minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Young Carrots a l’Allemande Trim two bunches of spring carrots, keeping their original shape but making them equal in size; parboil them in water with a little salt for about ten minutes; then drain, and plunge them in cold water, afterwards drain again, and lay them upon a cloth. Next place the carrots in a deep stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, an equal proportion of loaf sugar, and about half a pint of good consomme ; put the lid on, and leave the carrots to boil very gently for about half an hour; then put them to boil briskly until their liquor is reduced to glaze, when they must be gently rolled in this and dished up in a round-bottomed basin, so as to form a perfect dome when turned out; pour round some Allemande sauce (mixed with a little chopped and parboiled parsley and the remainder of the glaze) over the carrots, and serve. Cucumber a la Royale Peel thinly one large or two medium-sized cucumbers, cut them into inch-thick slices or cubes, and with a small pastry-cutter cut out the centre portion of each. Place them in a pie-dish, and marinade them with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Mix a jar of potted meat with a little cream or fresh butter. Fill the cavities of the cucumber shapes with this. Dish up on a folded napkin, put a slice of ripe tomato on top of each, and garnish with a hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve and placed in the centre of the tomato. Garnish the dish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Stuffed Cucumber a la Josephine One good-sized cucumber, 3 oz. cooked chicken or veal, 6 small mushrooms, 1 oz. cooked ham, J gill white sauce, £ gill aspic, and \ gill fresh cream. Cut the cucumber into one-inch-thick slices, peel thinly, and stamp out the inside by means of a pastry cutter. Blanch the pieces in salted water and drain on a cloth. Pound the meat, mushrooms, and ham together in a mortar; when fine, rub through a sieve. Put the pur£e in a stew-pan, season with pepper, a little salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, warm up the sauce and aspic