454 THE MODERN COOK and stir the whole over the fire till the jelly becomes tepid ; then strain it into a basin, and when it has become quite cold and is commencing to set on the surface and sides of the basin, stir it well together, and pour it into a mould surrounded with crushed ice. When the jelly is set firm, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it with a cloth, and turn out carefully on a dish. Lemon Jelly a l’Anglaise This is prepared in the same way as above, substituting lemons for oranges ; it will be necessary, however, to add four more ounces of sugar because of the acidity of the lemons. Orange Jelly a la Frangaise Peel off the rind from six oranges as thin as possible, and put it into a basin. Then make a syrup as follows:—Clarify half a pound of the finest loaf-sugar with a pint of water and half the white of an egg, and strain it on to the rind ; cover the basin down with a sheet of paper twisted tightly round the edges to prevent the essence in the orange rind from escaping. Extract the juice from the oranges and one lemon (by pressure) into a basin, and remove the pips. Strain the infusion into a basin, add the juice, half an ounce of isinglass and six drops of prepared cochineal or carmine colouring; stir these together, and then pour the jelly into a mould and set in crushed ice. Note.—Lemon jelly a la Frangaise is prepared in the same manner as above, except that the cochineal must be omitted, and four ounces of sugar added because of the acidity of the lemons. Pomegranate Jelly Take out the seeds from four ripe pomegranates, bruise the fruit in a basin with six ounces of castor sugar and a gill of ivater, and strain through a fine cloth. Then mix the juice of the pomegranates with half an ounce of isinglass, six drops of cochineal or carmine, and three-quarters of a pint of thin clarified syrup. Set a jelly mould in crushed ice, and fill with alternate layers of jelly and the bright pips of this fruit. Note.—A glass of noyau or maraschino may be added, if desired. Pine=Apple Jelly Peel a small pine-apple, cut it into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and put these into a basin. Clarify half a pound of loaf- sugar with a pint of water, the juice of a lemon, and half the white of an egg whipped stiffly. Strain the syrup on to the pine-apple, then cover it down with a sheet of paper twisted round the basin, and let the infusion stand for several hours in order to extract the flavour. When about to mix the jelly, strain the syrup into a basin and put the pieces of pine-apple to drain upon a sieve; add one ounce of isinglass to the pine-apple syrup, and pour the jelly into a mould surrounded with crushed ice.