230 THE MODERN COOK Croustade with Calves’ Tails a la Poulette Scald two small calves’ tails with the skin on, in the same way as calves’ heads; cut these up into neat pieces, parboil them in water for five minutes, and then plunge them in cold water; after which drain, trim, and place them in a stew-pan with a carrot, an onion, bouquet garni, four cloves, a blade of mace, and twelve peppercorns ; moisten with a quart of stock or water, in which latter case add some salt; and leave to boil gently for about an hour by the side of the fire. When the tails are done, drain them, trim them neatly, and place them in the croustade in pyramidal form, pour over a rich sauce k la Poulette, containing a handful of button-mushrooms, and serve. Croustade with Lamb’s Brains a la Matelote The brains must be prepared as directed on p. 226, and when they are done, put to drain upon a cloth, preparatory to being cut into neat pieces, and afterwards placed in circular order in the croustade. Pour over a Matelote sauce (see p. 9), made of two glasses of white wine with a little cayenne and lemon juice, and con- taining some small button-onions, previously simmered in butter, truffles cut in slices, and a few mushrooms, and serve. Croustade of Goose Livers a l’Epicurienne When about to send the croustade to table, fill it with a ragout of fat livers, prepared as follows :— Wrap two goose livers in thin layers of fat bacon, and simmer them very gently in a wine mirepoix (see p. 57) for half an hour; then remove the stew-pan from the fire, and allow the livers to cool in their liquor; they must now be taken out, cut into slices without waste, and placed in a small deep stew-pan containing one ounce of black Perigord truffles cut into slices, and a few button-mushrooms; to these add about half the mirepoix, freed from every particle of fat, and set the whole to boil briskly over the fire until the moisture is partly reduced to a glaze; toss the whole together over the fire, and use this ragout as directed above. Croustade with Quails a la Bourguignonne Cut a croustade in the form of a cup, not more than five inches high, and decorate appropriately. When the croustade has been fried, the inner crumb must be removed, and the interior lined with a well-seasoned farce of fat livers (see p. 61), previously prepared for the purpose, and four to six quails boned and filled with some of the farce, then trussed and partially braised; these must then be neatly garnished round with some of the farce, covered over with thin layers of fat bacon, and a thick band of buttered paper, secured with string, placed round the croustade to prevent it from acquiring more colour while in the oven. About an hour before dinner-time, set the croustade in a moderately heated oven to bake. Just before sending to table, remove the paper and bacon, remove all the surface fat. and place the croustade carefully on a dish.