420 THE MODERN COOK Talmouses Ingredients : J pt. milk, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. cream-curd, rind of 1 orange rubbed on sugar, 2 or 3 eggs, a very little salt, and 6 oz. puff paste. Put the milk, butter, sugar, and salt into a stew-pan on the fire, and as soon as these begin to simmer, gradually add the flour and stir the whole with a wooden spoon for two or three minutes; then add the curd (from which all superfluous moisture has been extracted), and work in the eggs one after the other, remembering that this paste must be kept to about the same consistency as for petits-choux. Make six ounces of puff paste and give it seven turns, roll out to a quarter of an inch in thickness, stamp out about a dozen circular pieces with a cutter two inches in diameter, and put these on a baking-sheet an inch apart from each other; put a good teaspoonful of the prepared mixture in the centre of each, wet round the edges, and then turn up the sides so as to form each of them in the shape of a three-cornered hat; egg over with a paste-brush, bake a light- brown colour, and when withdrawn from the oven, dredge over some fine sugar. These cakes may be served either hot or cold. Talmouses with Cheese These are prepared as before, except that the sugar and orange rind must be omitted, substituting instead two and a half ounces of scraped Brie, or Neuchatel, cheese; or failing these, Gruyhre or Parmesan cheese may be substituted. Florentines Roll out about six ounces of puff paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch and lay this over a baking-sheet; spread a thick layer of greengage jam over the paste, and then bake it in a moderate oven; when cool, spread with a coating of whipped whites of egg mixed with sugar, and strew some shred pistachio kernels over the surface; shake some finely sifted sugar over the top, and replace in the oven to lightly brown and set the meringue. A few minutes after the Florentines are taken out of the oven they should be stamped out with a cutter, or else cut out with a knife, in oblong or diamond shapes. Cupid’s Wells Give seven turns to six ounces of puff paste, then roll out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch; stamp out about a dozen rounds of the paste with a fluted cutter, and place these in rows on a baking-sheet. Then stamp out as many more pieces with a smaller fluted cutter, and after removing the centre of these, wet the surface of the others with a paste-brush, and lay one of the smaller rounds on each ; press them down with the fingers, egg over the tops, and bake a light-fawn colour; when nearly done, dredge over the surface with some sugar, put them back again into the oven for a minute or two to get brown. Fill either with preserved cherries, greengage jam, or currant jelly before serving.