THE MODERN COOK 3 56 SALADS Italian Salad Boil a head of fine white cauliflower, two tablespoonfuls of asparagus-points, French beans cut in diamonds, a few new potatoes (which after being boiled must be stamped out with a small vegetable cutter), a gill of green peas, and three artichoke bottoms, also cut up in small fancy shapes when boiled. All these vegetables must be prepared with great care, in order that they may retain their original colour; the cauliflower should be cut up in small buds or flowerets, and the whole, when done, put into a basin. Next boil a beetroot, three large new potatoes, and one dozen large-sized heads of very green asparagus, or a similar quantity of French beans; cut the beetroot and potatoes in two-inch lengths, and with a tin vegetable cutter, a quarter of an inch in diameter, punch out about two dozen small pillar-shaped pieces of each, and put these on a dish, with an equal quantity of asparagus-heads or French beans cut to the same length. Then take a plain border-mould, and place the green vegetables in neat and close order all round the bottom of the mould; taking care that a small quantity of aspic jelly must be first poured in the mould, for the purpose of holding together the pieces of French beans. Next line the sides of the mould by placing the pieces of beetroot and potatoes alternately, each of which must be previously dipped in some bright aspic jelly; when the whole is complete, fill the border up with aspic jelly. Preparatory to placing the vegetables, the mould must be surrounded by crushed ice. When about to send to table, turn the vegetable border out of the mould on to a dish ; after the vegetables have been seasoned, by adding to them half a gill of aspic jelly, a tablespoonful cf oil, one of tarragon vinegar, some pepper and salt, and when the whole has been gently tossed together, they should be neatly placed in the centre of the border, in a pyramidal form. Ornament with bold croutons of bright aspic jelly, and serve. Russian Salad Cut a small lobster in neat pieces and place them in a basin , to these add some small fillets of anchovies, about two ounces of tunny fish cut up, a dozen olives farcies, and a good tablespoonful of French capers; then add a sufficient quantity of red Mayonnaise sauce (see p. 24) to moisten these ingredients; mix the whole together, and use this preparation to fill an aspic border of vegetables similar to that described in the previous recipe. Finish in the same manner, and serve. German Salad Remove the skin from the fillets of two Dutch herrings, cut these up into pieces, and put them into a basin ; with a sharp knife shave some very thin slices of cooked beef, and add to the pieces of herrings,