SAUCES IN GENERAL *9 Gooseberry Sauce Let half a pint of green young gooseberries be well picked ; throw them into an untinned sugar-boiler, containing one and a half pints of boiling water to blanch them in. Boil them quickly on the fire for ten minutes (more or less), but see that the gooseberries are thoroughly done. Drain them on a sieve, remove them into a small stew-pan, and bruise them with a wooden spoon. The gooseberries after being boiled may be rubbed through a sieve or tammy into a puree, which has the effect of giving a smoother appearance to the sauce. This sauce is served with plain boiled mackerel. Parsley Sauce—Parsley and Butter Put a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley into half a pint of good butter sauce (see p. 17), and just before sending to table add a very little lemon juice. Plain Ravigote Sauce Take one dessertspoonful each of tarragon vinegar, Chili vinegar, and Harvey’s sauce. Put this into a small stew-pan, and set it to boil down to half the quantity ; then add about half a pint of good butter sauce (see p. 17) and a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched tarragon, with a teaspoonful of chervil, chives, burnet, and parsley, in sufficient quantity to give a bright colour to the sauce. Stir the whole well together, and serve. This sauce is suitable for boiled fowls or chickens, dressed fillets of various sorts of fish, when a plain dinner is served. If a small piece of glaze be added it will tend much to improve the quality of all plain sauces. Plain Dutch Sauce Pour a gill of melted butter (see p. 17) into a small stew-pan, add three raw yolks of eggs, a little grated nutmeg, some mignonette pepper, two ounces of fresh butter, and a little salt. Stir the sauce briskly on the fire in order to set the yolks in it, and then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie. Previously to using it add a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar or lemon juice. Bread Sauce Put a tablespoonful of cream and half a pint of milk into a small stew-pan with two ounces of bread-crumbs, a small onion, some peppercorns, and a little salt. Stir the sauce on the fire until it has boiled ten minutes, then take out the onion and peppercorns, work in half an ounce of fresh butter, and serve. Fried Bread Sauce Mince one ounce of lean ham and put it into a small stew-pan with one chopped shalot, some grated nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and half a pint of good gravy. Simmer the whole on the fire till reduced to half, then strain it with pressure through a tammy into another small stew-pan containing two tablespoonfuls of fried bread-