467 CREAMS AND CHARLOTTES etc., in a pail for the purpose. Next hold the ice-cave with the left hand while the spongada is being at the same time worked with a spatula held in the right hand, until it has become larger by entangling air into the mixture. When the spongada has become firm, and at the same time light, mix in lightly the ginger comfits and the shred pistachios; and immediately after, put the spongada into any kind of iced pudding mould; and after it has been left on the ice for about three hours, turn the spongada carefully out upon a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Spongada di Toledo Ingredients : J pt. milk of almonds (see p. 439), h pt. strong clarified syrup, 1 wine-glassful Kirschwasser, 2 or 3 whites of eggs, 2 oz. burnt almonds slightly bruised, and 1 gill cream whipped. Mix the milk of almonds, syrup, whites of eggs, and Kirsch- wasser well together, and strain them through a sieve into an ice-cave ready set on ice. Work this as directed in the preceding recipe, and when it has increased to twice its original quantity, mix in lightly the bruised burnt almonds and the whipped cream. Mould as before. Mince=Meat Wash and dry one and a quarter pounds of currants, and stone one pound of raisins ; cut up a quarter of a pound of candied citron, a quarter of a pound of candied lemon, and a quarter of a pound of orange-peel into shreds or very small dice; remove the skin, and then chop one pound of fresh beef-suet, and place this with the currants and the candied peel in an earthen pan; next chop the raisins with six large peeled apples, and add them to the other ingredients. Trim away all the sinewy parts from half a pound of roasted sirloin of beef, and chop all the lean of the meat quite fine. To the above must now be added three-quarters of a pound of moist sugar, one ounce of ground spice,—consisting of nutmegs, cloves, and cinnamon in equal proportions,—with the grated rind and juice of two lemons; the whole must then be thoroughly mixed together, and pressed down to a level in the pan. A quarter of a pint of brandy, and a like quantity of Madeira, sherry, or port should be poured into the mince-meat. Put the lid on the pan, place a cloth over it, and tie it down close so as to exclude the air as much as possible, and also to prevent the evaporation of the brandy, etc. The mince-meat should be kept in a cool place, and will be fit for use a fortnight after it is made. Lemon Mince-Meat Boil two lemons till quite tender, then pound them in a mortar or chop them up while warm, adding to them half a pound of castor sugar ; let this stand till next day, then add half a pound of suet, half a pound of currants, half a pound of raisins chopped, a little brandy, a quarter of an ounce of mixed spice, and port wine to taste —say a gill of brandy and wine together.