29 VEGETABLE PUREES stock, put the lid on the stew-pan, and set it to boil on the fire. By the time the broth is reduced the potatoes will be done; then add a tablespoonful of cream, and with a wooden spoon reduce the puree on the fire to the usual consistency of mashed potatoes. Rub the puree through the tammy on to a dish, and then remove it into a small stew-pan. Previously to using it, add a small piece of butter. Puree of Artichokes First, pick off the outer leaves of three or four young full-grown globe artichokes, then pare off with a knife the whole of the outer green part of the bottom of the artichokes, so as to leave it white. When this is finished, rub each artichoke thus pared with a piece of lemon, and put them directly into a pan of water with a teaspoonful of vinegar in it. Next, place the artichokes in a stew-pan with boiling water, a little butter, lemon juice, salt, and mignonette pepper. After three-quarters of an hour’s gentle boiling, take the artichokes up, extract the fibrous interior from each, and place them in a saute-pan with half a pint of white sauce, a tablespoonful of cream, nutmeg, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar. Reduce the pur£e quickly over a brisk fire, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon, and then rub it through a tammy; after which remove it into a small stew-pan. Finish with one ounce of butter and a small piece of glaze. Puree of Asparagus Break off the tender portion of a small bundle of green asparagus wash them in a large pan with two or three onions and some sprigs of picked parsley. Set these on the fire to boil in an untinned pan half full of boiling water, and throw in a teaspoonful of salt. As soon as the asparagus are done, drain them in a sieve, and remove all the water. Put the asparagus, parsley, and onions altogether into a deep saute-pan, with a gill of white sauce, the crumb of a small French roll (that has previously been soaked in water, and afterwards pressed in a napkin to remove the moisture), some grated nutmeg, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar. Reduce the puree quickly on the fire, rub it through a tammy on to a dish, and from thence remove it into a small stew-pan and keep it in the cool until wanted for use. Finish by adding one ounce of fresh butter, a piece of glaze, and a few drops of spinach-green, if required, to give it a bright-green colour. Puree of Onions a la Soubise Peel and cut into slices two or three large onions, parboil them in water for five minutes, drain them on a sieve, immerse them in cold water, and press them in a napkin to extract the water. Place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, a little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, a little salt, and a good gill of white stock. Put a round of buttered paper on them, and cover the stew-pan with its lid and set it on a very slow fire to simmer gently for half an hour. Then turn the onions out into a saute-pan, moisten with one gill of good white sauce and a tablespoonful of cream. Reduce the pur£e quickly on a