THE MODERN COOK 374 Place the eggs in rows in the dish, spread some of the preparation in between each layer, and dish up in the form of a dome ; smooth the surface over with the remainder of the sauce, sprinkle some browned bread-crumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese over the top, put some fried croutons of bread or fleurons round the base, gratinate in the oven for about ten minutes, then send to table. Scrambled Eggs with Truffles Break six new-laid eggs into a stew-pan ; to these add two ounces of fresh butter, one ounce of truffles (cut up in very small dice, and simmered in a little butter), a tablespoonful of cream, a small piece of glaze, a little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and salt; stir this quickly over the fire until the eggs, etc., begin to thicken, when the stew-pan must be withdrawn ; continue to mix the eggs with the spoon until they become set without curdling; dish up the eggs in the centre of some croutons or fleurons, and serve. Leek Omelet Six eggs, i^- oz. butter, i tablespoonful grated cheese, salt and cayenne, i tablespoonful milk or cream, 2 leeks well washed, trimmed, and stewed in brown sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cheese, sufficient salt and cayenne to taste, and the milk or cream; beat well to amalgamate the yolks and whites of eggs and other ingredients. Cut the cooked leeks into slices, and keep hot in a small stew-pan with just enough sauce to moisten. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan; when thoroughly warm (not too hot) pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a bright fire until the eggs begin to set. Shape quickly into the form of a cushion, place the stewed leeks in the centre, and fold in the ends. Allow the omelet to take colour, then turn out on a warm dish, pour a little brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve quickly. Omelet a la Marechale Eight eggs, 8 slices cooked smoked ox-tongue, a dessertspoonful chopped parsley, ^ gill cream, oz. butter, salt, pepper, Colbert sauce (see p. 5). Break the eggs into a basin, add parsley, pepper, salt, and beat up well, add the cream and mix thoroughly. Divide into eight equal portions; melt a little of the butter, and prepare a very small omelet with each portion of the mixture; place it on the slice of tongue, trimmed to required size, and proceed thus until the eight omelets are made. Dish up on a hot dish in the shape of a border (en couronne), pour Colbert sauce round the dish, and serve. Parmesan Omelet Six eggs, 1 large tablespoonful cream, 2 tablespoonfuls grated Parmesan, 1 j oz. butter, white pepper, a few brown crumbs, Tomato sauce (see p. 7). Break the eggs into a basin, add rather more than half of the