THE MODERN COOK 7° This kind of soup may be also finished with the addition of a gill of green peas, which must be boiled a few minutes before serving up the soup, and placed in the tureen previously to pouring in the soup. Asparagus points may be used for the same purpose. Consomme Brunoise Take two carrots, one turnip, one small head of celery, one leek, and one onion; cut them into small dice and fry them in a stew-pan, over a slow fire, with an ounce of fresh butter, a little pounded sugar, and a sprinkling of salt. When the vegetables have acquired a light-brown colour, pour on to them two quarts of good strong bright consomme or veal stock, and put the soup on the fire to boil; skim it well, and then remove it to the side, there to continue gently boiling until the vegetables are thoroughly done. Add half a gill of green peas, a small handful of French beans (cut into the form of diamonds), and half a gill of asparagus points (the whole having been previously boiled green for the purpose), also a few duchess’ crusts (see p. 62); and having tested the flavour and seasoning of the soup, send to table. Lettuce and Whole=Pea Soup Pick, wash, and blanch two or three white-heart cabbage-lettuces: cut them open, and spread them on a clean napkin ; season them with mignonette pepper and salt, then put two together, face to face, and proceed to tie them up with twine. Cover the bottom of a stew-pan with thin layers of fat bacon, and place the lettuces thereon; pour upon them one pint of broth from the boiling stock-pot, over which lay a round of buttered paper; place the lid on the stew-pan, start them to boil on the fire, and then place them at the side to simmer gently for about an hour; after which drain the lettuces on a clean napkin, untie them, and after having cut them into inch lengths, lay them in the soup-tureen, together with a gill of young green peas boiled for the purpose, and a small pinch of mignonette pepper. Take every particle of fat off the broth in which the lettuces have been braised, and add it to the lettuces and peas already in the tureen, over which pour three pints of bright strong consomme of fowl; ascertain that the soup is seasoned correctly, and having thrown in a handful of duchess’ crusts, send to table. Flemish Consomme Take two carrots, two turnips, and one small cucumber, and with a vegetable scoop cut them out into the shape of olives or pears. To the foregoing add the white parts of a small head of celery and one leek, which must be cut into thick shreds half an inch long. Blanch or parboil these for five minutes; drain them on a sieve, and afterwards place them in a sauce-pan capable of containing three quarts; add two quarts of good consomm^, and set the squp on the fire to boil, skim it, and place it by the side to boil gently until the vegetables are sufficiently done. While the soup is boiling, blanch the following vegetables, which, when done, put into the soup with the others : a