THE MODERN COOK 142 pan containing either a few prepared button-mushrooms, button- onions, or very small quenelles of whiting; warm the ragout, pour it over and about the char, garnish the matelote with a border of croutons, and serve. Char a la Hollandaise Boil the char in salt and water, dish them up on a napkin, and send to table with a boatful of Dutch sauce. Char, thus plain boiled, may also be sent to table with Parsley and Butter, green Ravigote, or Crayfish sauce. Char a la Beaufort Place the char when trimmed in an oval stew-pan with sliced carrot and onion, a few sprigs of parsley and a blade of mace, mush- rooms, peppercorns, thyme, bay-leaf, and salt; moisten with a glass or two of French white wine, and set the fish to stew gently on the fire. When done, drain them on to a napkin, skin and mask them with some glaze mixed with some pounded lobster coral, place them on their dish, and sauce them round with half a pint of Parisian ragout (see p. 46) mixed with the liquor in which the char has been stewed, after this liquor has been reduced to glaze; garnish with a border of lobster croquettes. Lamprey en Matelote To wash lampreys1 it is necessary to put them into a large earthenware vessel with plenty of salt, with which they should be well scoured and afterwards thoroughly washed in several waters; by this means they are freed from the slimy mucus which adheres to this kind of fish. The lampreys should then be trimmed and cut into pieces about two inches long, or they may be left whole, according to taste ; they should be placed in a stew-pan with sliced carrot and onion, mace, peppercorns, thyme, and bay leaf, parsley, mushrooms, and salt ■ moisten them with a glass of port wine, and set the whole to stew gently on the fire. When done, take half the liquor in which the lampreys have been stewed, and reduce it with half a pint of brown sauce ; add a glass of port wine, and as soon as the sauce is reduced to a proper consistency, incorporate with it a pat of butter, a little essence of anchovies, and lemon juice, and pass it through a tammy or fine sieve into a bain-marie containing some button- mushrooms and stewed small button-onions. Drain the lampreys, place them on a dish, sauce them over with the ragoht, and send to table. 1 Of this kind of fish there are two different varieties in general use for the table ; one being the sea or marine lamprey, which is abundant at Gloucester and Worcester, where it is dressed and preserved for the purpose of being given as presents. The other, the lampern, is much smaller ; this is to be found in the Thames, and may easily be obtained at any of the London fishmongers from the month of October till March, at which period they are in season. The lamprey is considered to be in best condition during the months of April and May, when it ascends the Severn from the sea for the purpose of depositing its spawn.