37i SIDE-DISHES Cheese Darioles Whip up half a pint of cream and mix it with a quarter of a pint of semi-liquid aspic, and four ounces of grated Gruyere cheese. Season with cayenne or paprika pepper and a little made mustard. When well mixed, fill the required number of small paper or china dariole or souffle cases; place these on the ice to set. Before serving, sprinkle over each a little grated cheese. Baked Cheese Ramequin Stir two yolks of eggs into one gill of cream, and mix with four ounces of grated Gruyere cheese, and season with salt and pepper. Whisk the whites of two eggs, and mix with the above. Fry about six slices of bread in hot butter, and put them into several buttered fireproof china pans or dishes. Pour over the prepared mixture, and bake in a hot oven to a golden brown. Golden Buck Grate or chop half a pound of Cheddar cheese. Put in a sauce- pan half a gill of water or ale, or—if you prefer it—cider; add the cheese, half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne, a teaspoonful of onion juice, and stir with a wooden spoon over the fire until it becomes smooth and creamy; then stir in one yolk of egg. Pour hot on pieces of buttered toast placed on a hot dish, and serve. Woodcock Toast Take \ lb. of chicken or duck livers, 2 small Gorgona anchovies, \ teaspoonful castor sugar, 1 oz. butter, J teaspoonful spiced pepper (paprika or Krona pepper), a pinch of salt, 3 yolks of eggs, and about \ gill of cream. Wash and clean the livers, removing carefully any gall that may be left on, drain them on a cloth, and pound till quite fine in a mortar. Bone and skin the anchovies, and pound them to a paste. Mix all thoroughly, and add the butter, sugar, and seasoning, rub through a fine sieve, and incorporate the egg yolks and half the above-mentioned quantity of cream. Stir this in a chafing-dish until it is sufficiently cooked, have ready a plate or small dish with a piece of buttered toast. Just before serving add a little more cream, and seasoning if needed, pour the mixture over the toast, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Savoury Marrow on Toast Break up two good beef bones, extract the marrow, cut it into square dice, and put to soak in water for two hours. Bring the pieces to a boil over a quick fire, take them out to drain; dress them on small pieces of buttered toast; break them up with a fork, so as to spread the marrow over the surface of each piece of bread ; season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon juice, and besprinkle with finely chopped parsley. Dish up neatly, brown a little with a hot salamander, garnish with fried parsley, and serve.