. THE MODERN COOK 44° Macaroni Cake is prepared in the same way as a vermicelli cake. Semolina Cake This is also made in the same manner as a vermicelli cake, except that it does not require to be parboiled. Sago and tapioca are treated in a similar way. Potato Cake Bake six large potatoes, and when done, rub their pulp through a wire-sieve; put this into a basin, add two ounces of butter, four ounces of sifted sugar, a few drops of vanilla essence, a gill of cream, the yolks of two eggs and the whipped whites of two, and a little salt; work the whole well together, and pour into a buttered mould lined with bread-crumbs; bake the cake for about an hour, and when done, dish up with a fruit sauce poured round the base, made in the following manner :—- Pick half a pound of either currants, raspberries, cherries, damsons, strawberries, or apricots; put them in a stew-pan with three ounces of sifted sugar and half a gill of water; boil the whole down to the consistency of a thick puree, and then rub it through a sieve or tammy. SOUFFLES IN GENERAL Banana Souffle Peel four ripe bananas, slice them and rub through a sieve. Melt one ounce of butter in a stew-pan, stir in three-quarters of an ounce of flour, and cook a little; add one gill of milk, and stir over the fire until it leaves the sides of the pan clean. Remove from the fire and add by degrees three yolks of eggs, beat the mixture well, and stir in the banana pulp, also one ounce of castor sugar, and lastly the stiffly whisked whites of three eggs. Turn into a fire- proof souffle dish, and bake for about thirty minutes. Place the dish on another hot dish, dredge with sugar, and serve quickly. Vanilla Souffle Ingredients : i oz. potato flour, i oz. sugar, i J oz. butter, £ pt. cream or milk, 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, and a little salt. Boil the milk or cream. Put the potato flour, sugar, butter, and salt into a stew-pan, and mix the whole well together; then add the milk and the vanilla, and stir over the fire until it boils, when it must be worked with the spoon to make it perfectly smooth; add the yolks of eggs, and set it aside while the whites are being whipped quite firm, and then fold these into the mixture; pour the whole lightly into a greased souffle tin, having a broad band of buttered cartridge-paper round the outside, and set it in the oven to bake: