134 THE MODERN COOK dish them up, and garnish with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), place round them a border of large crayfish and glazed croutons, and send to table. Soles a la Marechale Bone a pair of soles, stuff them with quenelle force-meat of whiting, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and then fry the fish ; drain them on paper, dish them up, and sauce them round with some Venetian sauce (see p. 8), and serve. Matelote Normande of Sole Bone one fine sole; stuff it with quenelle force-meat of whiting mixed with some chopped fine herbs; place on a buttered baking-tin, season with pepper and salt, moisten with half a glass of French white wine, a gill of oyster liquor, and half a gill of essence of mushrooms; put in the oven to poach for twenty to thirty minutes, and when done, remove the sole carefully on to a dish. Reduce the liquor, incorporate it in a rich Matelote Normande ragofit (see p. 45), with which sauce the sole all over, and garnish round with a border of crayfish and some oval crofitons, then serve. Sole a la Plessy Bone, stuff, and bake a large sole, as described in the preceding directions, and when done, put in press between two flat dishes; as soon as the fish is cool, mask over with some quenelle force-meat coloured with lobster coral; smooth with the blade of a large knife dipped in hot water; then place the sole carefully on a silver dish, and after ornamenting the fish with a bold decoration,—composed of truffles,—moisten with a glass of French white wine, and put in the oven for about a quarter of an hour. Garnish round with a Parisian sauce (see p. 11); place round the Matelote a border of fried smelts, previously boned and stuffed with forcemeat, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Diana 2 small soles, prawn puree, grated cheese, 12 prawns, nouille paste, Veloute sauce, 1 oz. butter, 1 truffle or pimiento, 1 dessert- spoonful fresh caviare. Prepare a nouille paste made with six ounces of flour, one ounce of butter, one egg yolk, salt, and a little milk. Knead it well and roll out thinly; stamp out a number of ovals, and line with these the required number of oval-shaped, fluted patty pans (flat). Bake them in a cool oven for about ten minutes. Skin and fillet the soles; poach them in the oven in a well- buttered saute-pan with a little white wine, mushroom liquor, lemon juice, and seasoning. Take them up and let cool, then trim each fillet to the size of the oval paste crusts. Heat up the prawn pur£e, mix with caviare, and spread the bottom of each paste crust with it; upon this place the fillets of sole, one on each. Sauce over carefully with well-reduced Veloute sauce, besprinkle with grated cheese and