REMOVES OF VENISON, RED DEER, ETC. 203 Boar’s Head with Aspic Jelly Procure the head of a bacon hog,1 which must be cut off deep into the shoulders ; bone it carefully, beginning under the throat, then spread the head out upon a large dish, and rub it with the follow- ing ingredients :—Two pounds of salt, one and a half ounces of saltpetre, six ounces of moist sugar, cloves, mace, half an ounce of juniper berries, two cloves of garlic, three or four bay-leaves, a handful of thyme, marjoram, and basil. When the head has been well rubbed with these, keep it in a cool place for about a week, turning it daily during that period. When about to dress the head, take it out of the brine, and wash it thoroughly in cold water; wipe it with a clean cloth, and spread it out upon the table. Next pare off all the uneven pieces from the cheeks, etc., cut these into long narrow fillets, and put them with the tongue, fat bacon, and truffles, prepared as directed for a galantine (see p. 303); then line the inside of the head with a layer of force-meat (the same as used for galantines), about an inch thick, and lay on it the fillets of tongue, bacon, truffles, and here and there some blanched pistachio kernels; cover these with a layer of force-meat, and then repeat the rows of tongue, etc., and when the head is sufficiently stuffed to fill it out in its original shape, it should be sewn up with a small trussing-needle and string, so as thoroughly to secure the stuffing. The head must then be wrapped up in a cloth, and sewn up in this, so as to preserve its original form ; it should next be put into a large oval braising-pan, covered with any carcases of game (especially of grouse, from its congenial flavour) or any trimmings of meat there may be at hand; then moisten with enough wine rhirepoix (see p. 57) to cover the surface of the head. As soon as it boils up, skim thoroughly, then remove to a slow fire that the head may continue to simmer or boil very gently for between four and five hours; as soon as it appears to be nearly done, remove the pan from the fire and dish up the head; if it appears to have shrunk in the cloth, this must be carefully tightened so as to preserve its shape; it should then be put back into the liquor until the whole has become set by cooling. The head must then be taken out of the liquor, and put in the oven upon a deep baking-dish for a few minutes, just to melt the jelly which may be sticking to the cloth.; it must then be taken out quickly, and the cloth removed, after which glaze the head with some dark-coloured glaze ; place on a large dish, ornament it with aspic jelly and creamed butter forced through a pipe, and serve. 1 For this purpose the head must be cut off before the pig is scalded, and the bristles singed off; by this means it will have all the appearance of a wild boar's head.