179 REMOVES OF VEAL sauce, season with nutmeg, pepper and salt, mix this well together, and use it as directed above. Cover the whole with very fine bread- crumbs, mixed with one and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, sprinkle some drops of melted or oiled butter over it, and placing the loin of veal on a buttered baking-sheet, put it in the oven to bake to a light-brown colour ; when done, dish it up, pour round it a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), and garnish with a border of quenelles of veal or fowl decorated with truffles, and send to table. Loin of Veal a la Royale Prepare and braise four or five pounds of loin of veal, as directed in the preceding recipe ; when done, allow it partially to cool in its own braise, then strain it on the drainer of the braising-pan, and remove any grease there may be on it: cover it over with a quenelle farce of veal mixed with a little lobster coral; decorate the ends and centre with a bold design, using for the purpose some black truffles in order that the decoration may show well on the scarlet surface. Next place the loin of veal in a large oval braising-pan with just sufficient consomme to bathe it, to the depth of an inch, cover the loin with very thin layers of fat bacon or a well-buttered oval covering of paper; set it in the oven or on a moderate fire to boil or simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour, when it will be done. Then drain the veal, and remove the bacon or paper used to cover it; pour round it a ragofit of button-mushrooms, small quenelles of fowl, cocks’ combs and kernels; glaze the loin of veal with thin light-coloured glaze, and send to table. Note.—This remove may also be decorated with ornamental skewers garnished with a piece of red tongue cut in the shape of a cock’s-comb, a large double white cock’s-comb, a mushroom, and a red quenelle ornamented with truffle. Roast Loin of Veal a la Financiere Procure five to six pounds of loin of veal cut square without the chump, and with the flap or skirt left on; bone it carefully, truss it tightly in the shape of a pillow, and after first laying the fillet bare, by paring off the whole of the skin and sinew which covers it, lard it closely as you would a fricandeau. When the loin is so far prepared, get it ready for braising in a large oval braising-pan, with carrot, onion, celery, a bunch of herbs, two blades of mace, and four cloves ; moisten with a quart of good stock, cover with an oval of paper well buttered, place the lid on the pan, and then set the veal to braise gently on the fire, taking care to baste it frequently with its own liquor. When done, drain, glaze, and dish it up; pour round it a rich brown binanciere ragoCit (see p. 44), garnish with a border of plain quenelles, and send to table. Roast Loin of Veal k la Creme To prepare this, follow the directions given for dressing neck of veal h. la Creme (see p. 174), garnish in the same manner, and send to table.