ENTREES OF PIGEONS AND DUCKS 3°5 them in beaten egg and bread-crumb them over again, and put on one side. About twenty minutes before dinner-time, place the pigeons carefully in a frying-basket and plunge them in hot fat; when a light golden colour, drain well to absorb all fat. Then pile up some Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35) in the centre of the dish, place the pigeons round this in circular order, with the breasts resting on the bottom of the dish; pour some Allemande or Bechamel sauce round the entree, and serve. Pigeons a la Seville These are prepared, in the first instance, in the same way as the previous recipe, excepting that they must be braised in some wine mirepoix (see p. 57), and they should be also covered with thin layers of fat bacon and only moistened to half their depth ; braise them gently for about twenty minutes, frequently basting them with their own liquor. When the pigeons are done, drain, and dish up with their backs resting up against a small croustade of fried bread, previously made fast to the bottom of the dish ; garnish with a Spanish ragout. The ragout above alluded to consists of small truffles, carrots, pieces of ham, mushrooms, and a few boiled garbanqas or yellow peas ; these must be first slightly fried in a little oil, and a tablespoonful of Tomato sauce, a glass of Malaga or Madeira, with a pinch of crushed pimientos and a piece of glaze added ; simmer the whole together over a slow fire until the carrots are done; then skim off all the fat, add half a pint of finished Espagnole sauce and two or three cloves of garlic, previously boiled in water ; the ragout must be allowed to boil gently by the side of the fire for five minutes longer; then, after it has been skimmed, add the juice of half a lemon, and use as directed. Pigeons au Gratin Remove all the bones from three young pigeons, then make some force-meat of fat livers (see p. 61) and stuff the pigeons with.this ; they must next be trussed, and gently braised for about a quarter of an hour in a small quantity of liquor, after this removed on to a dish and left to get cold. Make a circular case of stout paper, oil it over, and place it in the oven for a few minutes to make it firm ; line this case with some of the force-meat, and place the pigeons in it in neat order ; fill up the cavities with the remainder of the force-meat, cover over with very thin layers of fat bacon, and then set the case in the oven to bake for about half an hour. The bacon must then be removed, and all the fat absorbed by gently pressing a clean cloth upon it, and then the case put on a dish ; pour some Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5) round the entree, and serve. Pigeons a la Maintenon Split two young pigeons lengthwise, flatten and bone them, and then season with pepper and salt; fry them in a stew-pan with a little butter, some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and two shalots, and when done, add a gill of Allemande sauce, a little essence of mush- x