209 REMOVES AND ENTREES OF GOOSE goose, and truss it in the usual way; place it in an oval braise-pan with six ounces of butter, a bouquet garni, an onion stuck with four cloves, a stick of celery, and a carrot cut into slices, and moisten with two glasses of sherry. Put the lid on the braise-pan, place it on a slow fire, with some hot embers of charcoal on the lid, and allow the goose to simmer gently for about two hours, taking particular care to turn it, so as to give it an equal colour all over. When done, pour off all the fat, add three tablespoonfuls of reduced brown sauce, and a little consomme to detach the glaze from the sides of the stew-pan ; and having allowed it to boil quickly, in order to reduce the sauce to its usual consistency, the goose should be dished up and garnished with a border of glazed turnips ; then pour the sauce over, and serve. This dish may also be garnished with macaroni, with glazed carrots, or braised onions. Goose a la Flamande Truss and braise a goose; when done, dish it up and garnish it round with alternate groups of glazed carrots, turnips, Brussels sprouts, and indeed almost every variety of vegetables in season, pre- viously prepared for the purpose; glaze the goose, and pour some bright brown sauce (with the addition of some of the braise in which it has been done, reduced to a glaze for that purpose) round the vegetables, and send to table. Goose a l’Allemande Procure one dozen leaves of sage, and blanch them in boiling water for two minutes; then drain and put them into a small stew-pan with a large onion chopped fine, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and one ounce of butter; set these to simmer gently on the fire for ten minutes, and having put this stuffing in the goose, truss and place it in an oval stew-pan with three ounces of butter, and set it on a moderate fire, with some hot embers on the lid. Care should be taken to turn the goose every now and then, so as to give it an equal colour all over. When it is done, pour off all the fat, add the juice of one lemon and one orange, the peel of an orange cut into very thin shreds, one previously parboiled in water; add also a table- spoonful of brown sauce and a little consomme. Allow these to boil together for two or three minutes, dish up the goose, garnish it round with groups of potatoes,—cut into the shape of large olives and fried in butter,—pour the sauce over the goose, and send to table. Goose a la Dauphinoise Stuff a goose with chestnuts prepared as follows :—Slit, scald, and peel about three dozen large chestnuts; put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, a little salt, and a pint of good stock, one shalot chopped fine, and a bouquet garni; set the chestnuts to stew upon a slow fire, and when they are done, stuff the goose and truss it. Then place the goose in a deep dish, moisten with a wine-mirepoix (see p. 57), and cover the dish hermetically with some stiff flour and water paste, so as entirely to prevent the aroma of ingredients from p