VEGETABLE PUREE SOUPS 73 VEGETABLE PUREE SOUPS Bretonne Soup Peel and chop finely three Spanish onions, put them in a stew-pan containing three ounces of melted butter, and fry the onions to a light- brown colour. Stir in one ounce of oatmeal and three ounces of haricot beans (previously washed and soaked), mix well and add six pints of water or stock ; boil up, skim, and cook for three-quarters of an hour, stirring frequently. Pass the soup through a fine sieve, return to the stew-pan and heat up again; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and add half a gill of cream a few minutes before serving. Puree of Peas a I’Anglaise Take one pint of yellow split peas, wash them several times in water, drain them, and put them into a small stock-pot with one ounce of raw ham, one small stick of celery, one carrot, and an onion with four cloves stuck in it. Add three pints of common stock, let the soup boil, skim it well, and then set it by the side of the fire to boil gently for between two and three hours. The peas having then become entirely dissolved, pass them through a tammy-cloth with the aid of two wooden spoons, to be used in the following manner :— Spread the tammy-cloth over a large dish, pour the puree, or part at a time, into the hollow thus formed ; let two persons take hold firmly of each end of the tammy-cloth with the left hand, so as carefully to secure the puree against flowing over; with the right hand they should work the edge of the spoon, the bowls being back to back, in the cloth, in regular time and with some force until the whole of the puree is rubbed through : it will be, however, necessary to scrape off with the back of a knife any portion that may adhere to the cloth. A sieve will also answer the same purpose. When this is done, remove the puree from the dish into a sauce-pan ; add half a pint of consomme, carefully stirring the pur^e on the fire until it begins to boil, then remove it to the side of the stove, to continue gently boiling until it has clarified itself by throwing up all the scum, which should be removed as it rises to the surface. Ascertain whether there is enough seasoning, and send to table with some dried and sifted mint in a plate; and in another plate serve some Conde crusts, prepared as follows :— Conde Crusts for Soups Take a piece of stale bread, pare away the crust, and then cut the crumb into very small square dice; fry these in fresh butter till they become slightly browned, then drain them on a sieve, and afterwards place them on a sheet of paper, moving them about for a short time that the butter may be absorbed. Keep these crofttons in a dry place until wanted. Just before dinner-time they should be put inside the oven for a few minutes.