CALVES’-HEAD AND OX-CHEEKS, ETC. 191 a quenelle, a truffle, and a large crayfish; sauce round with a well- made Turtle sauce (see p. 4); garnish the dish between the spaces of the ears with four larded and glazed sweetbreads, and eight decorated quenelles, and send to table. Calf s=Head a la Marigny Prepare and braise a calf’s-head as directed for dressing a calf’s- head a la Beauvaux. When done, drain all the moisture from it, place the head on a dish, remove the string, trim the ears, and then sauce it all over (the ears excepted) with a well-seasoned Ravigote sauce; garnish round with a border of crayfish and green gherkins, and send to table. Note.—It is not necessary, in all cases, to garnish each remove as richly as heretofore explained; many of the accessories, on every- day occasions, might be regarded as extravagant. Ox=Cheek a la Flamande Procure one fresh ox-cheek, bone and trim it, and then place in a large oval braising-pan on the drainer, garnish with the usual proportions of vegetables, etc., add the trimmings, moisten with sufficient broth from the stock-pot to cover the whole, and set to boil very gently by the side of the stove-fire for about two and a half hours. When the ox-cheek is thoroughly braised and become quite tender, take it up carefully, and put in press between two dishes, until cold; then trim neatly, giving an oval or oblong shape, and put into a deep fricandeau pan with the broth in which it has been braised (clarified and reduced to half its original quantity), and set by in the larder till about three-quarters of an hour before dishing up ; then put the ox-cheek in the oven, or on a slow fire, to get gradually warm, and glaze it brightly with stock. Next place it on a dish, garnish round with a border of Brussels sprouts boiled green, and tossed over the fire in a stew-pan, with butter, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; or when these fail, use braised cabbages ; then add a border of alternate groups of well-prepared and nicely glazed carrots and turnips, cut into fancy shapes, and also some small-sized glazed onions. Sauce with an Espagnole or Poivrade sauce, and send to table. Ox=Cheek a la Polonaise Bone and trim an ox-cheek; prepare it for braising as directed in the foregoing recipe; moisten with a little sherry, and allow to simmer on the fire for about ten minutes, add sufficient stock to cover, and again set on the stove to boil; skim and put by the side of the fire, to continue gently boiling for two and a half hours. When the ox-cheek is sufficiently braised, and become quite tender, put in press between two dishes; when cold, trim, and afterwards cut across the grain, into very thin slices. Then place a number of triangular croutons of fried bread, in an oval form, on the dish, within two inches of the edge, and within this coronet place a layer of the thin slices of the ox cheeks, over which spread some sauce made in the following manner:—-