346 THE MODERN COOK five minutes; loosen the fibrous substance in the inside with the handle of a tablespoon, and after this has been all removed from the artichokes, put them back into some hot water for a few minutes to warm through; drain them upside down upon a cloth to absorb all the moisture, and then dish up on a napkin; pour a little Butter sauce inside each, and send up some of the sauce in a sauce-boat. Artichokes a la Barigoule Trim three small globe artichokes, and with the handle of a spoon scoop out all the fibrous part inside. Then fry the bottoms of the artichokes in a frying-pan with hot fat for about three minutes, turn them upside down, and fry the tips of the leaves also; drain to absorb all the fat, and fill them with a similar preparation to that mentioned below; cover over with layers of fat bacon, tie up with string, and place in a large braise-pan lined with thin layers of fat bacon; moisten with a glass of white wine and a little good consomme, or with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57); put the lid on, and after they have boiled up on the fire, place the artichokes in the oven to simmer very gently for about an hour. When done, drain, remove the strings and the bacon, fill the centre of each artichoke with some Italian sauce (see p. 5), dish up with some of the sauce in a sauce-boat, and serve. Artichokes a la Lyonnaise Pull off the lower leaves of three globe artichokes without damaging the bottoms, which must be scraped smooth with a sharp knife; cut the artichokes into quarters, remove the fibrous parts, trim neatly and parboil them in water with a little salt for about five minutes; drain them in a colander and plunge them in cold water, after which drain them upon a cloth, and arrange in circular order in a saute-pan thickly spread with fresh butter; sprinkle a dessert- spoonful of castor sugar over, season with mignonette pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of white wine and half a pint of good consomme, and place on a slow fire to simmer very gently for about three-quarters of an hour, taking care that they do not burn. When done, they should be of a deep-yellow colour and nicely glazed; dish up in the form of a dome, showing the bottom of the artichokes only; remove any leaves that may have broken off in the stew-pan, add a gill of bright Espagnole sauce and some lemon juice; simmer this over the fire, stirring with a spoon, pour it over the artichokes, and serve. Artichokes en Surprise Twelve small Jerusalem artichokes, x terrine foie-gras (size No. 12), 6 mushrooms, £ gill Bechamel sauce, seasoning, frying batter, frying fat, parsley and lemon to garnish. Wash and scrape the artichokes, peel each to a neat round or oval, and cook in salted water till nearly tender, then drain and scoop out the interior of each. Pound the foie-gras previously freed from