PARTRIDGES 327 Partridges a la Ravigote These should he trussed as for boiling, and must be roasted just before they are wanted; when dished up, pour a Ravigote or Provengale sauce under them, glaze, and send to table. Partridges a la Soubise Truss two partridges for boiling, braise them, and when done dish them up, pour an onion sauce & la Soubise, finished with a tablespoonful of cream (see p. 2^) over them, and send to table. Partridges a l’Ellisler Truss two partridges as for boiling, lard the breasts closely, braise them in a wine mirepoix (see p. 57); when done, glaze them nicely and dish them up; garnish with a group of small truffles, cocks’- combs, and mushrooms; pour a Parisian sauce (see p. 11) round the partridges, and serve. Salmi of Partridges a la Financiere Truss two young partridges, wrap them round with a large sheet of buttered paper, and par-roast before a moderate fire or in the oven for about twenty minutes; then take them up, place them on their breast in a dish, without removing the paper, and when cold, cut up into small joints: first taking off the legs, next the fillets with the pinion-bones left on, then dividing the breast and back, and trimming these whole. Place these joints in a braise-pan, beginning with the pieces of breasts, the fillets, and then the legs and back. Make some essence with the trimmings, to be used for working into half a pint of brown sauce ; pour a little of this to the pieces of partridges, and warm them without boiling ; dish up with the inferior joints under, place six or eight heart-shaped croutons of fried bread round, and serve. Salmi of Partridges a la Provengale Par-roast, cut up, and trim two young partridges as in the previous recipe, chop the trimmings, and put them into a small braise-pan with three shalots, a clove of garlic, bay leaf and thyme, a few pepper- corns, and a small blade of mace, two ounces of chopped lean of ham, and two tablespoonfuls of salad oil; fry these ingredients over a moderate fire for five minutes, and then add two glasses of French white wine. Boil this until reduced to half its original quantity, then add half a pint of good consomme and the same quantity of Espagnole sauce. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, then remove it to the side to clarify by gentle simmering; after a quarter of an hour’s simmering, remove the scum, pass the sauce through a tammy, and boil down over a brisk fire; then incorporate a small piece of anchovy butter and the juice of half a lemon, and pass it again through a tammy into a basin; add one-third to the partridges, and put the remainder into a bain-marie containing some slices of truffles and mushrooms.