SAUCES IN GENERAL 3 SAUCES IN GENERAL FOUNDATION SAUCES Espagnole or Brown Sauce1 Let the stock Espagnole (see p. i) be turned out into a large stew-pan, adding thereto one tablespoonful of essence of mushrooms, and half a pint of veal stock to enable the sauce to clarify itself; stir it over the fire till it boils, and then set it down by the side to continue boiling gently. When the sauce has thoroughly cleared itself, by gentle simmering, and assumes a bright velvety smoothness, reduce it over a brisk fire to the desired consistency, and then pass it through a tammy for use. White Veloute Sauce1 To finish this sauce, proceed in every respect the same as for the Espagnole, substituting rich white stock made of veal or fowls for the veal stock, in order to clarify it; and the essence of mushrooms must be white in order to prevent the sauce from taking a dark hue, contrary to its special character. Bechamel Sauce Divide the Veloute sauce (according to the quantity required) into three parts; put one-third into a stew-pan, and, having reduced it, add to it a gill (more or less) of boiling cream; after allowing the sauce to boil a few minutes longer, stirring it the whole time, pass it through the tammy into a basin, or bain-marie,2 for use. Cream Bechamel Sauce Put two ounces of fresh butter into a medium-sized stew-pan ; add one and a half ounces of sifted flour, some nutmeg, a few peppercorns, and a little salt; knead the whole well together; then cut one carrot and one onion into very thin slices, place them into the stew-pan, and also a bouquet of parsley, thyme, and half a bay-leaf, tied together; next moisten these with a pint of white broth and half a pint of cream ; and, having stirred the sauce over the fire for about half an hour, pass it through the tammy into a basin for use. This sauce is not expensive, neither does it require much time or trouble to make. It is very useful as a substitute for Veloute or other white sauces, as also for many other purposes, as will be shown hereafter. Allemande Sauce Reduce one and a half pints of white Veloute sauce intended for the Allemande over a brisk fire, adding a dessertspoonful of essence of 1 These two foundation sauces differ from the stock Espagnole and Veloutd, in being worked or finished sauces. 2 This is a French term for a large open vessel, half filled with hot water, holding a distinct set of copper sauce-pans, tinned both inside and outside, and used only for the Special Hot Sauces when finished.