i6 THE MODERN COOK quarter of a pint of red wine, and set the whole to simmer gently on a slow fire for five minutes; then take out the cinnamon and cloves and send to table. This kind of sauce is well adapted for roast hare or venison. Neapolitan Sauce Scrape one ounce of horse-radish quite clean, grate it, and place this in a small stew-pan with one ounce of glaze, a small pot of currant jelly, a gill of red wine, and a gill of worked brown sauce ; boil the whole gently on the fire for twenty minutes, then pass the sauce through a tammy as you would a puree, and put it into a bain- marie for use. This kind of sauce is generally used with larded fillets of beef. It may also be served with entrees of venison. Victoria Cherry Sauce Put a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly into a stew-pan, together with a dozen cloves, a stick of cinnamon, the rind of one orange, a piece of glaze, and a gill of reduced brown sauce; moisten with a gill of Burgundy wine, boil gently on the fire for ten minutes, pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie, add the juice of the orange, and, just before sending to table, reheat the sauce. This sauce is especially appropriate with red deer or roebuck, when prepared in a marinade and larded. Red=Currant Jelly Sauce for Venison Bruise half a stick of cinnamon and six cloves, and put them into a small stew-pan with one ounce of sugar, and the peel of one lemon pared off very thin and perfectly free from any portion of white pulp ; moisten with a quarter of a pint of port wine, and set the whole to simmer gently on the fire for ten minutes; then strain it through a sieve into a small stew-pan containing a small pot of red-currant jelly. Just before sending the sauce to table set it on the fire to boil, in order to melt the currant jelly, so that it may mix with the essence of spice, etc. Black-Currant Jelly Sauce for Venison This sauce is made exactly in the same manner as the foregoing —substituting black-currant jelly for red. It is preferred by many to the other, as it possesses more flavour. Sauce Robert Peel one onion and cut it in halves, pare off the ends, and cut into very small dice in the following manner:—Hold the half-onion in the left hand, set it firmly on the table with the cut side down- wards, then, with a knife held in the right hand horizontally, apply the edge of the point, and cut the onion into slices parallel with the surface of the table without drawing the knife quite through; then turn the piece of onion half round, and cut it nearly through in a vertical direction ; this will form the whole into small dice-like pieces.