243 ENTREES OF BEEF table put the cases in the oven to get thoroughly wanned; dish up neatly in a pyramidal form, and serve some Fine Herbs or Brown Italian sauce separately in a boat. Croustades or Patties of Beef Marrow In this case, the beef marrow must be prepared according to the first part of the directions for dressing them a la Ravigote ; they must then be cut into half-inch lengths, and placed in a small stew-pan, with about half their quantity of prepared mushrooms; to this may be added some finished Espagnole sauce, a little cayenne and lemon juice. Warm the whole together on the fire, and fill the croustades or patties with it. Ox=Tongue with Spinach Soak a pickled tongue for two hours, run an iron skewer through it from the root to the pointed end, tie a piece of string on one end of the skewer, and fasten it at the other, so as to keep it in shape. The tongue should then be put on the fire in enough cold water to cover, and kept gently boiling for about three hours, when it must be taken up, the outer skin removed, and placed in the larder to cool. It should then be neatly trimmed, wrapped in a piece of buttered paper, and put into an oval stew-pan, with a little ordinary stock. Three-quarters of an hour before sending to table, put the tongue in the oven, or over a slow fire, to get warmed through; then glaze it, and dish it up with some prepared spinach (see p. 27) round, pour a little Espagnole sauce, or some half-glaze round the base, and serve. Ox=Tongue with Brussels Sprouts This is prepared in the same manner as the foregoing, except that Brussels sprouts (see p. 30) must be substituted for spinach. Ox=Tongue a la Macedoine Prepare the tongue as in the foregoing recipes, and when about to send to table, glaze and dish up with a white Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35) placed neatly round it, and serve. Ox=Tongue a la Jardiniere The tongue, when dished up, must be garnished with groups of cooked glazed carrots and turnips, cut in small fancy shapes ; these must be alternated with similar groups of cooked buds of cauli- flowers, heads of asparagus peas, or French beans cut in the form of diamonds. Pour some half-glaze or Espagnole sauce round the base, and send to table. Braised Ox=Tongue k I’AIlemande Scald a fresh ox-tongue in boiling water upon the fire for about ten minutes; then plunge in cold water, and remove the root and any superfluous fat. Place the tongue in an oval stew-pan with a carrot, an onion, a stick of celery, a bouquet garni, four cloves, and a blade of mace; add sufficient good stock to cover the whole, and