ENTRIES OF POULTRY 281 simmer for about twenty minutes; they are then to be glazed. In dishing up this entree, first place all the small joints of the chicken in the bottom of the dish in neat order; the legs are next to be added, and then the larded fillets must be placed between these with the taper end pointing upwards, and the whole surmounted with a large truffle, and a border of white double cocks’-combs should be placed round the entree; add the remainder of the sauce, and serve. Fricassee of Chicken a la Romaine When the chicken has been cut up and trimmed in the usual way, place the pieces neatly in a stew-pan with a gill of salad oil, bay leaf and thyme, two shalots, mignonette pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg, one clove of garlic, and a pimiento; fry the pieces of chicken over a rather brisk fire until the pieces become firm to the touch, but without browning; shake in two tablespoonfuls of flour, toss the whole over the fire for three minutes, and moisten with a glass of Chablis or Sauterne wine and a pint of white consomme; stir the fricassee on the fire till it boils, then remove it to the side to continue gently boiling for half an hour. Skim off the oil, etc., that has risen to the surface, drain the pieces of chicken, reserving the sauce in a stew-pan to be reduced and finished in the ordinary manner; trim the pieces of chicken neatly, and put them into a stew-pan with the sauce, some button-mushrooms or morels, trimmed crayfish-tails and cocks’ kernels. When about to send to table, warm the fricassee, and add a teaspoonful of lemon juice and a pat of butter, previously pounded with a small red pimiento and a piece of lobster coral, and passed through a sieve. Dish this in the usual manner, and serve. Chicken a la Marengo Cut up one or more chickens or fowls into small joints, as for a fricassee; place them in a braising-pan with half a gill of salad oil, a few truffles cut into the form of olives, a bunch of herbs, a bruised clove of garlic, mignonette pepper, and salt; set the braise-pan on a moderate fire, and put some live embers of charcoal on the lid. Allow the chickens to fry rather briskly for about twenty minutes so as to brown well. Then pour off nearly all the oil, and remove the herbs; add one dozen prepared button-mushrooms, a pint of Espagnole sauce (see p. 3), and a piece of glaze; simmer the whole together on the fire for five minutes, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and dish up the entree in the following order:—First place the pieces of the backs and the wings, next the legs, the fillets, and lastly the pieces of the breasts; then pour the sauce, etc., over the entrde, garnish round with crofitons of fried bread, and serve. Chicken Saute with Oysters The pieces of chicken must be cut up in the ordinary way, and after being neatly trimmed, should be placed in a stew-pan with some clarified butter, seasoned with pepper and salt, and fried a light-brown colour. Pour off the butter, add eighteen parboiled oysters with