32 THE MODERN COOK Garnish of Truffles a la Parisienne Prepare the truffles as directed in the above recipe, and, having boiled them down in their glaze, add a good tablespoonful of Parisian sauce (see p. n). Garnish of Truffles with Supreme Sauce Prepare the truffles in fancy shapes, simmer them with a table- spoonful of butter and glaze, and boil them down in their glaze; then add a tablespoonful of Supreme sauce. This garnish may be served with all entrees, fillets of poultry or game. Garnish of Whole Truffles Wash and brush a dozen or more fine fresh truffles; boil them in one pint of wine mirepoix (for making which see p. 57)—half an hour’s gentle boiling will suffice. Just before using them, take the truffles out of the mirepoix, glaze them, and dispose them round or about the entree or remove in a circle or in groups. Garnish of Mushrooms in Allemande Sauce Wash and peel half a pound of mushrooms, put them into a small stew-pan with an ounce of butter, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, and about a gill of water. Boil them quickly on the fire for five minutes, drain the mushrooms, and put them into a bain-marie containing a good gill of Allemande sauce; reduce the liquor the mushrooms were boiled in and add it to the mushrooms. This garnish is proper for all white entrees, and especially for entrees of game or fowl & la Dauphine or a la Villeroi. Garnish of Mushrooms in Espagnole Sauce Prepare half a pound of mushrooms as directed in the foregoing recipe, drain them on a napkin, and place them in a stew-pan or bain-marie with a gill of finished Espagnole sauce, adding the essence of the mushrooms, cleared from the butter, and reduced. This sauce is appropriate for every kind of brown entree. Garnish of Young Carrots Wash and scrape a small bunch of young carrots, keeping them in their own shape as far as may be consistent with uniformity of size. Boil them in enough water to cover for three minutes, drain them on a sieve, place them in a stew-pan with half an ounce of sugar, half an ounce of butter, and a little salt; moisten with half a pint of stock or consomme, and set them to boil on the fire. When they are done, boil them down quickly to a glaze, roll the carrots in this glaze, and use them to garnish the intended dish. Garnish of Carrots in Olives, etc. Scrape and wash two or three good carrots; cut the red part, either with a small root-knife, vegetable scoop, or cutter, into various fancy shapes, as olives, small round balls, pillars, half-moons, diamonds, or fluted shapes. Parboil, drain, and prepare them as