27 VEGETABLE PUREES cream. Reduce the puree still further, then rub it through a tammy ; next remove it into a small stew-pan, and previously to using it make it sufficiently hot, mixing in half an ounce of fresh butter, and serve. Puree of Celery Cut the white part of two or three heads of celery into half-inch lengths, boil these in water for five minutes, plunge them in fresh water, and drain the celery in a napkin ; then place them in a stew- pan with one ounce of butter, a gill of white broth, a little sugar and grated nutmeg. Cover the celery thus prepared with a round of buttered paper; place the lid on the stew-pan and set it on a slow fire to extract the moisture and melt the celery, taking care that in the course of process it does not colour. When the celery is melted or softened, moisten with half a pint of white sauce and a table- spoonful of cream; reduce quickly on the fire, stirring the puree the whole time with a wooden spoon. As soon as the puree is reduced to its proper consistency, proceed immediately to rub it through the tammy, after which put it into a small stew-pan ; previously to using it, make the puree hot, and mix with it a dessertspoonful of double cream and a pinch of pounded sugar. Puree of Cauliflowers Cut the head of a white fresh cauliflower into small pieces, and after trimming these, boil them in some boiling water with a little salt, mignonette pepper, and one ounce of butter; when done, drain them on a sieve, and afterwards place them in a saute-pan with a gill of reduced Allemande or white sauce. Stir the puree on the fire with a wooden spoon, and keep it boiling until reduced to the con- sistency of a soft paste; then instantly rub it through a tammy, remove the puree into a small stew-pan, and previously to using it make it hot, and mix in a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of sugar, and a dessertspoonful of double cream to whiten it and make it more delicate. Puree of Spinach Pick, wash, and boil enough leaves to make a small dish of spinach; rinse them in cold water, squeeze thoroughly free from water, examine carefully by separating with the point of a knife on the chopping board, so as to remove any straws, etc.; next pound it well in the mortar, and then put in a deep saute-pan; add a gill of good white sauce, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and a pinch of sugar; reduce the puree over a brisk fire to preserve its colour; rub it through a tammy, and remove it into a small stew-pan. Just before using it, make it warm, and add one ounce of fresh butter and a small piece of glaze. Puree of Sorrel Pick and well wash two or three handfuls of sorrel in several waters ; drain off the water, and place the sorrel in a large stew-pan on the fire, with enough water to cover, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon. As soon as the sorrel is melted, and has boiled a