253 ENTRIES OF MUTTON may also be added; season with a bunch of herbs and some mignonette pepper. Keep the haricot gently boiling by the side of the fire for about one hour and a half; skim off all the fat, remove the herbs, place the cutlets and vegetables in another stew-pan, and after having boiled the sauce down (if necessary), pass it through a strainer upon the cutlets. When about to send to table warm the haricot, dish the cutlets in the usual manner, fill the centre with the vegetables, pour the sauce over all, and serve. Note.—Breasts of mutton with the superfluous fat removed, and cut into small square pieces, make a very good haricot or stew. The foregoing may be varied by substituting green peas, young carrots, turnips, or new potatoes for the carrots and turnips. Sheep’s=Tongues Sheep’s-tongues should first be pickled in the manner directed for briskets of beef, etc. ; for the preparation of which see p. 170. Sheep’s=Tongues a l’Ecarlate with Spinach Prepare three or four tongues, and braise in some wine-mirepoix (see p. 57), or ordinary stock garnished with the usual vegetables, etc. : after about three-quarters of an hour’s gentle boiling they will be done: they must then be placed upon a dish on their sides, and another dish with a weight in it should be laid upon them to press them evenly. When the tongues are cold, trim neatly, remove the skins, and place them in a deep stew-pan with some half-glaze, and about twenty minutes before sending to table put them in the oven to warm through, covered with a circular piece of buttered paper to prevent their being dried up; roll them in their glaze, dish up in the same manner as cutlets, fill the centre with spinach (see p. 27), mix a tablespoonful of Espagnole with the remainder of their glaze, pour it round the tongues, and serve. Sheep’s=Tongues a la Maintenon These must first be braised, and when done, put in press between two dishes, and afterwards neatly trimmed. The tongues must then be finished in every respect the same as mutton cutlets it la Maintenon (see p. 245). Sheep’s=Tongues a la Napolitaine Braise and trim three or more tongues as above, cover them all over with a thin coating of d’Uxelles sauce, and when this has become firmly set by cooling, dip each tongue in some beaten egg, and roll it in bread-crumbs; flatten them smoothly with the blade of a knife, and then place them on a dish in the larder until within about twenty minutes of dinner-time. The tongues must then be fried a light-brown colour in clean hot fat, then drained and dished up in the form of a close circle, the centre of which must be filled with macaroni dressed with cheese and a little Bechamel sauce; pour some Neapolitan sauce under them, and serve.