SOUPS MADE WITH RICE OR PEARL BARLEY 83 stirring the soup over the fire (taking care that it does not boil), pour the soup into a tureen containing eighteen very small quenelles of fowls, coloured with a little spinach-green (see p. 74). Puree of Rice a la Chasseur Wash and blanch two ounces of Carolina rice, and after draining all the water from it, put it on to boil with a quart of consommd of pheasant or partridge. When the rice is sufficiently done, rub it through the tammy or a fine sieve; and having clarified it in the usual way, by adding some of the same sort of consomme the rice is boiled in, about five minutes before sending the soup to table mix in with the cream of rice one and a half pints of the puree of one pheasant or two partridges (as the case may be). Be careful not to allow the soup to get too hot after adding the puree of game to it, as it would be sure to decompose and become rough and unsightly. Should this accident, however, occur, it may be remedied by taking the soup away from the fire, putting a little consomme to it, and quickly rubbing it through the tammy again; by these means it will resume its proper smoothness. This remedy will be found effectual for rectifying similar accidents, should they occur, with meat purges in general. Cream of Pearl Barley a la Victoria Wash three ounces of pearl barley in several waters, blanch and drain it upon a sieve, and having allowed some cold water to run over it for a few minutes, put it into a stew-pan with two quarts of white consommd of fowls, and set it to boil by the side of a slow fire for two or three hours. When the barley is sufficiently done to admit of its being bruised easily, set one-third of it aside in a small sauce-pan, and immediately proceed to rub the remainder through a tammy or sieve; then mix the cream of barley thus obtained with the whole barley which has been set aside. Ten minutes before serving up this soup, add to it a gill of cream. Cream of Pearl Barley a la Reine The process for making this soup is exactly the same as that used for making the cream of rice h. la Chasseur, barley being substituted for rice, and poultry for game (see above). Cream of Pearl Barley a la Printaniere Having prepared a cream of pearl barley as above directed, just before sending it to table pour it into a soup-tureen containing eighteen small quenelles of fowl and one gill of large heads of asparagus boiled green, and serve. Cream of Pearl Barley a la Royale The puree of barley being prepared as described in the foregoing directions, and finished in the same manner, pour it into a soup- tureen containing the cooked breast of a chicken, and cut into small pieces neatly trimmed.