THE MODERN COOK 170 sauce (see p. 8), for making which use the marinade in which the fillet of beef has been pickled. Note.—Fillets of beef may also be dressed plain, that is, without being larded, as some dislike the mixture of fat bacon with beef. In all other particulars the directions for dressing braised rumps, rolls or larded fillets of beef are to be followed when dressing fillets plain. For purposes of economy the fillet of beef should be thus prepared for braising:—Trim the fillet as if intended to be larded, and then cover the upper or smooth part with layers of beef-suet prepared for the purpose by taking some large pieces of suet and placing them between a wet cloth, and with the cutlet-bat flatten them until they do not exceed half an inch in thickness; fasten the layers on the fillet with string, and for braising the fillet, follow the directions given in the foregoing dishes. BOILED AND STEWED BRISKETS, AITCH- BONES, ROUNDS, AND RIBS OF BEEF Boiled Brisket of Beef a l’Anglaise Procure a piece of brisket of beef, about five pounds, and which has been in salt about a week or ten days; wash the beef in cold water, and then place it on the drainer in a large oval braising-pan ; garnish with two carrots, two large onions, and two turnips; pour in sufficient cold water to fill the pan nearly, and set it to boil on the fire. As the scum rises to the surface, take it off with a spoon, and when the beef has been thoroughly skimmed, set the pan down by the side of the stove, to continue gently boiling for about two to two and a half hours—according to the size and weight of the brisket; when the beef is done, trim, glaze, and then dish it up; garnish it round with plain boiled turnips and carrots that have been neatly cut into the shape of pears, eggs, or small fluted leaf-like shapes; at each end place a group of small suet dumplings, pour some gravy under the beef, and send to table. Some Piquante sauce (see p. 6), lightly seasoned, should be served in a sauce-boat to be handed round with the beef. Boiled Brisket of Beef a l’Ecarlate The brisket of beef l’lvcarlate should be prepared according to the foregoing instructions in every respect—except the salting or curing operation, which must be thus effected :— To one and a half pounds of common salt add one ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, some bruised bay-leaves, thyme, winter savory, and sweet-marjoram, a dozen cloves, and a few blades of mace; with this mixture rub the piece of brisket of beef for a few minutes every day—for four or five days running; after which, merely turn it over in the brine once a day, for the succeeding five days—altogether making up ten days for salting the beef. The brisket of beef is then ready for use—provided it is to be