21 SAUCES IN GENERAL Plain Curry Sauce Put one and a half ounces of fresh butter into a stew-pan, together with an ounce of flour and a good tablespoonful of curry paste or powder. Knead these well together, then add a little shred carrot, celery, and onions; moisten with about a pint of good strong con- somme. Stir the sauce on the fire until it boils, and after having kept it boiling for about twenty minutes pass it through the tammy, as for a puree; then remove the sauce into a bain-marie or stew-pan, to be used when required. This economical method of making curry sauce should only be resorted to in cases of emergency or necessity, otherwise it is desirable to follow the directions contained on p. 12. Waterfisch Sauce, for Boiled Fresh = Water Fish Cut into small shreds the rind of an orange, the red part of a carrot, a dessertspoonful of parsley stalks, and an equal proportion of parsley heads. Blanch these, and having drained them on a sieve or napkin, place them in a small stew-pan containing about half a pint of Dutch sauce, with the addition of two dessertspoonfuls of reduced essence of fish, a little cayenne, and lemon juice. Stir the sauce on the fire without allowing it to boil, and serve it with perch, or, indeed, with any other sort of plain boiled fresh-water fish, for which purpose the ingredients it contains render it peculiarly fitted. Flemish Sauce Knead one ounce of fresh butter with an equal quantity of flour, to which add an onion, some sprigs of parsley, a little shred carrot, and a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, and a little mignonette pepper; moisten with a gill of cream and half a pint of good consomme. Stir the sauce on the fire until it boils, and after having kept it boiling for twenty minutes, pass it through the tammy into a bain- marie containing a teaspoonful of the red part of a carrot, some parsley stalks and roots, and some horse-radish, the whole of which should be previously cut into small diamonds and blanched. Finish by mixing in a small teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and a green Indian gherkin cut into shreds; make the sauce hot, and serve. Caper Sauce, for Fish Knead one ounce of fresh butter with half an ounce of flour, a very little grated nutmeg, and mignonette pepper; to these add a tablespoonful of capers, a piece of glaze, and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies; moisten with about half a pint of good consomme. Stir the sauce on the fire until it begins to simmer, then take it off; add a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve. This kind of sauce is peculiarly adapted for broiled salmon. Caper Sauce, for Boiled Mutton To about half a pint of good butter sauce add a tablespoonful of capers with a little pepper and salt.