DOMESTIC COOKEET. 252 lump-sugar; when dissolved putthe liquor into a barrel, and when fine, which will be in about two months, bottle it, and to each bottle put a spoonful of brandy, or a glass of wine. Raspberry or Currant Wim, To every three pints of fruit, carefully cleared from mouldy or bad, put one quart of water; bruise the former. In twenty-four hours strain the liquor and put to every quart a pound of sugar, of good middling quality, of Lisbon. If for white currants,use lump-sugar. It is best to put the fruit, &c. into a large pan, and when in three or four days the scum rises, take that off before the liquor be put into the barrel.—Those who make from their own gardens may not have a sufficiency to fill the barrel at once; the wine will not hurt if made iu the pan in the above proportions, and added as the fruit ripens, and can be gathered in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put in each time. Another way.—Put five quarts of currants, and a pint of raspberries, to every two gallons of water; let tliem soak a night; then squeeze and break them well. Next day rub them well on a fine wire sieve, till all the juice is obtained, washing the skins again with some of the water; then to every gallon put four pounds of very good Lisbon sugar, but not white, which is often adulterated ; tun immediately, and lay the bung lightly on. Do not use any thing to work it. In two or three days put a bottle of brandy to every four gallons; bung it close, but leave the peg out at top a few days ; keep it three years, and it wiU be a very fine agreeable wine; four years would make it still better. Black Currant Wine, very fine. To every three quarts of juice, put the same of water unboiled ; and to every three quarts of the liquor, add three pounds of very pure moist sugar. Put it into a cask, preserving a little for filling up. Put the caslc in a warm dry room, and the liquor will ferment of itself. Skim off the refuse, when the fermentation shall be over, and fill up with the reserved liquor. When it