221 SWEETMEATS. good many on tlie top, then fill the pan with water. Stop it so close down that no steam can get out, set it by a slow fire till scalding hot, then take it oft’ till cold, and so do till on opening while cold, the gooseberries are of a good green. Then drain them on sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound of sugar to a pint of water, boil, and skim it well; when half cold, put in the fruit; next day give it one boil; do this thrice. If the hops are to be dried, which way they eat best, and look well, they may be set to dry in a week; but it'to be kept wet, make a syrup in the above proportions, adding a slice of ginger in boiling; when skimmed and clear, give the goose- berries one boil, and when cold, pour it over them. If the first syrup be found too sour, a little sugar may be added aud boiled in it, before the hops that are for drying have their last boil. The extra syrup will serve for pies, or go towards other such meats. Baspherry Jam. Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar; put the former into a preserving-pan, boil and break it, stir con- stantly, and let it boil very quickly. When most of the juice is wasted, add the sugar, and simmer half an hour. This way the jam is greatly superior in colour and flavour to that which is made by putting the sugar in it first. Another xcay.—Put the fruit in a jar in a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, tiU the juice will run from it, then take away a quarter of a pint from every pound of fruit; boil and bruise it half an hour, then put in the weight of the fruit in sugar, and, adding the same quan- tity of cxirrant-juice, boil it to a strong jelly. The raspberry-juice will serve to put into brandy, or may be boiled with its weight in sugar for making the jelly or raspberry-ice or cream. To preserve Greengages. Choose the largest, when they begin to soften; split them without paring, and strew a part of the sugar which you have pre\dously weighed an equal quantity of. Blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife. Next