DOMESTIC COOKERY. 28 A leg of pork, or of lamb, takes the full allowance of twenty minutes, above a quarter of an bour to a pound. In roasting, beef of ten pounds will take above two liours and a half; tweut}’’ pounds wdl take three houi’S and three quarters. A neck of mutton will take an hour and a half, if kept at a proper distance. A chine of pork two hours. The meat should be put at a good distance from the fire, and brought gradually nearer when the inner part becomes hot, which will prevent its being scorched wliile yet raw. Meat should be much basted; and when nearly done, floured to make it look frothed. Veal and mutton should have a little paper put over the fat to preserve it. If not fat enough to allow for basting, a little good dripping answers as well as butter. The cook should be careful not to run the spit through the best parts: and should observe that it be well cleaned before and at the time of serving, or a blackstain appears on the meat. In many joints the spit will pass into the bones, and run along them for some distance, so as not to injure the prime of the meat: and the cook should have leaden skewers to balance it with; for want of which, ignorant servants are often troubled at the time of serving. In roasting meat it is a very good way to put a little salt and water into the dripping pan, and baste for a little while with this, before using its own fat or drip- ping. When dry, dust it with flour, and baste as usual. Salting meat before it is put to roast draws out the gravy; it should only be sprinkled when almost done. Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a proper size for w'hat is required, are the first articles of a good cook’s attention in roasting. Old meats do not require so much dressing as young: not that they are sooner done, but they can be eaten with the gravy more in. A piece of writing paper should be twisted round the bone at the knuckle of a leg or slioulder of lamb, mutton, or venison, when roasted, before they are served.