85 POULTRY. water: let them cool; then cut up; and put to simmer in a little gravy made of the liquor they were boiled in, and a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon- peel, some white pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. W hen quite tender, keep them hotwhUe you thicken the sauce in the following manner; strain it off, and put it back into the sauce-pan with a little salt, a scrape of nut- meg, and a little flour and butter: give it one bod; and when you are going to serve, beat up the yolk of an egg, add half a pint of cream, and stir them over the Are, but don’t let it bod. It wdl be quite as good without the egg. The gravy may be made (without any other meat) of the necks, ieet, small wing-bones, gizzards, and livers ; which are caUed the trimmings of the fowls. To pull Chickens. Take off the skin ; and puU the flesh off the bone of a cold fowl, in as large pieces as you can; dredge it with flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain the butter from it; and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy well-seasoned, and thickened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of half a lemon. Another way.—Cut off the legs, and the whole back of a dressed chicken ; if under-done the better. PuU aU the white part into little flakesfiree from skin; toss it up with a Uttle cream thickened witha piece of buttermiied with flour, half a blade of mace in powder, white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. Cut off the neck-end of the chicken: and broil the back and sidesmen in one piece, and the two legs seasoned. Put the hash in the mid- dle, with the back on it; and the two legs at the end. Chicken Currie. Cut up the chickens raw, sUce onions, and fry both in butter with great care, of a flne light brown; or if you ixse chickens that have been dressed, fry only the onions. Lay the joints, cut iuto two or three pieces each, into a stew-pan ; with a veal or mutton gravy, and a clove or two of garlick. Simmer till the chicken is quite tender. Half an hour before you serve it, rub smooth a spoonful