CAKES. 235 and a half of sugar pounded and sifted, one ounce of spice in finest powder, three pounds of currrants nicely cleaned and dry, half a pound of almonds blanched, and three quarters of a pound of sweetmeats cut, not too thin. Let all be kept by the fire, mix all the dry in- gredients ; pour the eggs strained to the butter; mix half a pint of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy, pourit to the butter and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry things put in by degrees ; beat them very thoroughly, you can hardly do it too much. Having half a pound of stoned jar-raisins chopped as fine as possible, mix them carefully, so that tliere shall be no lumps, and add a tea-cupful of orange-flower water. Beat the in- gredients together a full hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered, or, if you have none, a tin or copper cake-pan; take a white paper, doubled and buttered, and put in the pan round the edge, if the cake batter fill it more than three parts; for space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will require three hours. Mout Drop caTces. Mix two pounds of fiour, one ditto butter, one ditto sugar, one ditto currants, clean and dry; then wet into a stilFpaste, with 2 eggs, a large spoonful of orange-flower water, ditto rose-water, ditto sweet wine, ditto brandy, drop on a tin-plate floured: a very short time bakes them. Flat CaTces that will Tceep long in the house good. Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one ounce of caraways, with four o)’ five eggs, and a few spoonfuls of water, to make a stiff [taste; rollitthin, and cut it into any sliape. Bake on tliis lightly floured. While baking, boil a pound of sugar in a pint of water to a thin syrup ; while both are hot, dip each cake into it, and put them on tins into the oven to dry for a short time ; and when the oven is cooler still, return them there again, and let them stay four or five hours. Little White Calces. Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few caraways, and as much milk and water as to make a