POEK. 07 turn it every day for tliree Aveeks; if a large one, a week longer; but don’t rub after four days. Before you dry it, drain and cover with bran. Smoke it ten days. Another loay.—Choose the leg of a hog that is fat and well-fed; hang it as above : if large, put to it a pound of bay-salt, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest sugar, and a hantlful of common salt, all in tine powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay the rind-down- wards, and cover the fleshy part with the salts. Baste it as often as you can with the pickle; the more the bet- ter. Keep it four weeks, turning it every day. Drain it, and throw bran over it; then hang it in a chimney where wood is burnt,andturn it sometimes for ten days. Another way.—Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt as above; then rub it every day with the following, in tine powder; half a pound of common salt, the same quantity of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a pound and a half of treacle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, for three w'eeks. Lay it into a pail of water for one night, wipe it quite dry, and smoke it two or three weeks. Another way that gives a high flavour.—AVlien the weather will permit, hang the ham three days ; mix an ounce of saltpetre, with a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, the same quantity of common salt, and also of coarse sugar, and a quart of strong beer: boil them together, and pour them immediately upon the ham; turn it twice a day in the pickle for three weeks. An ounce of black pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, in tine pow- der, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it with bran when wiped; and smoke it from thrc e to four weeks, as you approve : the latter will make it harder and give it more of the flavour of Westphalia. Sew hams in hessings (that is, coarse wrappers), if to be smoked where there is a strong Are. A method of giving a still higher flavour.—Sprinkle the ham ^^•ith salt, after it has hung two or three days; let it drain; make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half a pound of treacle, an ounce of coriander-seeds, two