206 DOMESTIC COOKERY. out the liquor, and among it put some hits of butter and grated cheese, and over the top grate more, and a little more butter. Set the dish into a Dutch-oven a quarter of an hour, and do not let the top become hard. Another way.—Wash it -well, and simmer in half milk, and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. To a spoonful of this liquor, put the yolk of an egg beaten in a spoonful of cream ; just make it hot to thicken, but not boil; put it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old cheese all over, and bits of butter. Brown with the salamander.—Another: Wash the macaroni, then sim- mer it in a little broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. AVhen quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate a good deal of cheese over, then cover that with bread grated fine. AV^arm some butter with- out oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen colander over the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch-oven, to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread should be in separated crumbs, and look light. Omelet. Makea batter of eggs aud milk, and'a very little flour: put to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives, the latter is best, or a very small quantity of shalot, a little pepj.er, salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Make some butter boiled in a small frying-pan, and pour the above batter into it when one side is of a tine yellow brown, turn it and do tfie other. Double it when served. Some scraped lean ham. or grated tongue, put in at first, is a very pleasant addition. Four eggs will make a j>retty sized omelet; but many cooks will use eightorten. A small proportion of flour should be used. If the taste be approved, a ZiYi^Zetarragon gives a fine flavour. A good deal of parsley should be used. Bamakius aud omelet, though usually served in the course, would be much better if they were sent up after, that they might be eaten as hot as possible. Butter to serve as a little Dish. Eoll butter in difi'erent forms : either like a pine, and