830 ORGANS OF SENSE directly with the forehead. Its inferior part, the base of the nose, presents two eUiptical orifices, the nostrils, separated from each other by an antero-posterior septum, the coliimna. The margins of these orifices are provided with a number of stiff hairs, or vihrissce, which arrest the passage of foreign substances carried with the current of air intended for respiration. The lateral surfaces of the nose form, by their union, the dorsum, the direction of which varies considerably in different individuals. The dorsum terminates below in a rounded eminence, the lobe of the nose. The nose is composed of a framework of bones and cartilages, the latter being slightly acted upon by certain muscles. It is covered externally by the integument, internally by mucous membrane, and supplied with vessels and nerves. The bony frajneivork occupies the upper part of the organ : it consists of the nasal bones, and the nasal processes of the superior maxillary. The cartilaginous frameioorh consists of five pieces, the two upper and the two lower lateral cartilages, and the cartilage of the septum. The upper lateral cartilages'sue situated below the free margin of the nasal bones ; each cartilage is flattened, and triangular in shape. Its anterior margin is thicker than the posterior, and connected with the fibro-cartilage of the septum. Its posterior margin is attached to the nasal process of the superior maxillary and nasal bones. Its inferior margin is connected by fibrous tissue with the lower lateral cartilage : one surface is turned outwards, the other inwards towards the nasal cavity. The loiver lateral cartilages are two thin, flexible plates, situated immediately below the preceding, and bent upon themselves in such a manner as to form the inner and outer walls of each orifice of the nostril. The portion which forms the inner wall, thicker than the rest, is Fig. 484.—Bones and cartilages of septum of loosely connected with the same nose. Eight side. part of the opposite cartilage, and forms a small part of the columna. Its inferior border, free, rounded, and projecting, forms, with the thickened integument and sub- jacent tissue, and the corresponding parts of the opposite side, the tip of the nose. The part which forms the outer wall is curved to cor- respond with the ala of the nose ; it is oval and flattened, narrow be- hind, where it is connected with the nasal process of the superior maxilla by a tough fibrous membrane, in which are found three or four small cartilaginous plates (sesamoid carti- lages), cartilagines minores. Above, it is connected to the upper lateral cartilage and front part of the cartilage of the septum ; below, it is separated from the margin of the nostril by dense cellular tissue ; and in front, it forms, with its fellow, the lobe of the nose. The cartilage of the septum is somewhat quadrilateral in form, thicker at its margins than at its centre, and completes the separation between the nasal fossae in front. Its anterior margin, thickest above, is connected from above downwards with the nasal bones, the anterior margin of the two upper lateral cartilages, and the inner portion of the two lower lateral cartilages. Its posterior margin is connected with the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid ; its inferior margin with the vomer and the palate processes of the superior maxillary bones. These various cartilages are connected to each other, and to the bones, by a tough fibrous membrane, which allows the utmost facility of movement between them. The muscles of the nose are situated immediately beneath the integument: