417 OF THE BACK Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Complexus and Trachelo- mastoid. By its deep surface, with the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. The Suboccipital Triangle.—Between the two obhque muscles and the Eectus capitis posticus major a triangular interval exists, the suboccipital triangle. This triangle is bounded, above and internally, by the Eectus capitis posticus major ; above and externally, by the Obliquus capitis superior ; below and externally, by the Obliquus capitis inferior. It is covered in by a layer of dense fibro-fatty tissue, situated beneath the Complexus muscle. The floor is formed by the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament, the posterior arch of the atlas, and the posterior atlanto- axial ligament. It contains the vertebral artery, as it runs in a deep groove on the upper surface of the posterior arch of the atlas ; and the posterior division of the suboccipital nerve. Nerves.—The Semispinalis dorsi and Eotatores spin^e are supplied by the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the dorsal nerves ; the Semispinalis colli, by the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical nerves ; the Supraspinales and Interspinals are supplied by the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar nerves in the respective regions ; the Intertransversales, by the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar nerves; the Multifidus spinse, by the same, with the addition of the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the sacral nerves. The Eecti and Obliqui muscles are all supplied by the suboccipital nerve ; the Inferior oblique is also supplied by the great occipital nerve. Actions.—When both the Spinales dorsi contract, they extend the dorsal region of the spine; when only one muscle contracts, it helps to bend the dorsal portion of the spine to one side. The Erector spinae, comprising the Ilio-costalis and the Longissimus dorsi with their accessory muscles, serves, as its name imphes, to maintain the spine in the erect posture ; it also serves to bend the trunk back- wards when it is required to counterbalance the influence of any weight at the front of' the body, as, for instance, when a heavy weight is suspended from the neck, or when there is any great abdominal distension, as in pregnancy or dropsy ; the peculiar gait under such circumstances depends upon the spine being drawn backwards, by the counterbalancing action of the Erector spinas muscles. The muscles which form the continuation of the Erector spinae upwards steady the head and neck, and fix them in the upright position. If the Ilio-costalis and Longissimus dorsi of one side act, they serve to draw down the chest and spine to the corresponding side. The Cervicales ascendens, taking their fixed points from the cervical vertebrae, elevate those ribs to which they are attached; taking their fixed points from the ribs, both muscles help to extend the neck ; while one muscle bends the neck to its own side. The Transversalis colli, when both muscles act, taking their fixed point from below, bend the neck backwards. The Trachelo- mastoid, when both muscles act, taking their fixed point from below, bend the head backwards; while, if only one muscle acts, the face is turned to the side on which the muscle is acting, and then the head is bent to the shoulder. The two Eecti muscles draw the head backwards. The Eectus capitis posticus major, owing to its obliquity, rotates the cranium, with the atlas, round the odontoid process, turning the face to the same side. The Multifidus spinae acts successively upon the different parts of the spine ; thus, the sacrum furnishes a fixed point from which the fasciculi of this muscle act upon the lumbar region; these then become the fixed points for the fasciculi moving the dorsal region, and so on throughout the entire length of the spine; it is by the successive contraction and relaxation of the separate fasciculi of this and other muscles that the spine preserve^ the erect posture without the fatigue that would necessarily have been produced had this position been maintained by the action of a single muscle. The Multifidus spin«, besides preserving the erect position of the spine, serves to rotate it, so that the front of the trunk is turned to the side opposite to that from which the muscle acts, this muscle being assisted in its action by the Obliquus externus abdominis. The Complexi draw the head directly backward ; if one muscle acts, it draws E E