THE TYMPANUM 863 Ossicles of the Tympanum (fig. 503) The tympanum is traversed by a chain of movable bones, three in number, the malleus, incus, and stapes. The former is attached to the membrana tympani, the latter to the fenestra ovalis, the incus being placed between the two, to both of which it is connected by delicate articulations. The Malleus, so named from its fancied resemblance to a hammer, consists of a head, neck, and three processes : the handle or manubrium, the processus gracilis, and the processus brevis. The head is the large upper extremity of the bone ; it is oval in shape, and articulates posteriorly with the incus, being free in the rest of its extent. The neck is the narrow contracted part just beneath the head ; and below this is a prominence, to which the various processes are attached. The mamibrium is a vertical process of bone, which is connected by its outer margin with the membrana tympani. It decreases in size towards its extremity, where it is curved slightly forwards, and flattened from within outwards. On the inner side, near its upper end, is a slight projection, into which the tendon of the Tensor tympani is inserted. The processus gracilis is a long and very delicate process, which passes from the eminence below the neck forwards and outwards to the Glaserian fissure, to which it is connected by bone and ligamentous fibres. The processus brevis is a slight conical projection, which springs from the root of the manubrium, and lies in contact with the membrana tympani. The Incus has received its name from its supposed resemblance to an anvil, but it is more like a bicuspid tooth, with two roots, which differ in length, and are widely separated from each other. It consists of a body and two processes. The body is somewhat quadrilateral but compressed laterally. On the anterior surface of its summit is a deeply concavo-convex facet, which articulates with the malleus ; in the fresh state it is covered with cartilage and lined with synovial mem- ^^^^^ 503.-The small bones of the ear, brane. seen from the outside. (Enlarged.) The two processes diverge from one another nearly at right angles. The short process, somewhat conical in shape, projects nearly horizontally back- J^y^, 'X-'^Z^ Processus brevis wards, and is attached to the margin of the opening leading into the mastoid cells, by ligamentous fibres. The long process, longer and more stapes\ slender than the preceding, descends nearly vertically behind and parallel to the handle of the malleus, and, bending inwards, ter- minates in a rounded globular projection, the OS orbiculare, or lenticular process which is tipped with cartilage, and arti- culates with the head of the stapes. In the foetus the os orbiculare exists as a separate bone, but becomes united to the long process of the incus in the adult. The Stapes, so called from its close resemblance to a stirrup, consists of a head, neck, two branches, and a base. The head presents a depression, tipped with cartilage, which articulates with the OS orbiculare. The neck, the constricted part of the bone below the head, receives the insertion of the Stapedius muscle. The two branches [crura) diverge from the neck, and are connected at their extremities by a-, flattened, oval-shaped plate (the base), which forms the foot of the stirrup, and is fixed to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by ligamentous fibres. Ligaments of the Ossicula.—These small bones are connected with each other, Os orbiculare Head Crura