337 HIP-JOINT sheath surrounding which is connected to each side of the groove. By their deep surface, they form part of the articular surface for the head of the metacarpal bone, and are lined by a synovial membrane. The Lateral Ligaments are strong, rounded cords, placed one on each side of the joint, each being attached by one extremity to the posterior tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and by the other to the contiguous extremity of the phalanx. Actions.—The movements which occur in these joints are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction ; the lateral movements are very limited. Surface Form.—The prominences of the knuckles do not correspond to the position of the joints either of the metacarpo-phalangeal or interphalangeal articulations. These prominences are invariably formed by the distal ends of the proximal bone of each joint, and the line indicating the position of the joint must be sought considerably in front of the middle of the knuckle. The usual rule for finding these joints is to flex the distal phalanx on the proximal one to a right angle; the position of the joint is then indicated by an imaginary line drawn along the middle of the lateral aspect of the proximal phalanx. XI. Articulations of the Phalanges These are gingiymus joints. The hgaments are :— Anterior. Two Lateral. The arrangement of these ligaments is similar to those in the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations ; the extensor tendon supplies the place of a posterior ligament. Actions.—The only movements permitted in the phalangeal joints are flexion and extension; these movements are more extensive between the first and second phalanges than between the second and third. The movement of flexion is very considerable, but extension is limited by the anterior and lateral ligaments. ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The articulations of the Lower Extremity comprise the following groups:— 1. The hip-joint. II. The knee-joint. III. The articulations between the tibia and fibula. IV. The ankle-joint. V. The articulations of the tarsus. VI. The tarso-metatarsal articulations. VII. The metatarso-phalangeal articulations. VIII. The articulations of the phalanges. I. Hip-Joint (fig. 253) This articulation is an enarthrodial, or ball-and-socket joint, formed by the reception of the head of the femur into the cup-shaped cavity of the acetabulum. The articulating surfaces are covered with cartilage, that on the head of the femur being thicker at the centre than at the circumference, and covering the entire surface with the exception of a depression just below its centre for the ligamentum teres ; that covering the acetabulum is much thinner at the centre than at the circumference. It forms an incomplete cartilaginous ring, of a horseshoe shape, deficient below and in front, and having in its centre a circular depression, which is occupied in the recent state by a mass of fat, covered by synovial membrane. The ligaments of the joint are the Capsular. Teres. Ilio-femoral. Cotyloid. Transverse. The Capsular Ligament is a strong, dense, ligamentous capsule, embracing the margin of the acetabulum above, and surrounding the neck of the femur below. Its upper circumference is attached to the acetabulum, above and behind, two or three lines external to the cotyloid ligament; but in front, it is attached to the outer margin of this ligament, and opposite to the notch where the margin of this Z