722 NERVOUS SYSTEM fornix; and below, the groove bet^Yeen the anterior pillars of the fornix and the optic thalamus. Behind the third ventricle, and in front of the cerebellum, are the corpora quadrigemina ; and, resting upon these, the pineal gland. The pineal gland (epiphysis cerebri), so named from its pecuhar shape (pinus, a fir-cone), is a small reddish-grey body, conical in form (hence its synonym, conarium), placed immediately behind the posterior commissure, and between the nates, upon which it rests. It is retained in its position by a duplicature of pia mater, derived from the under surface of the velum interpositum, which almost completely invests it. The pineal gland is about four lines in length, and from two to three in width, at its base, and is said to be larger in the child than in the adult, and in the female than in the male. Its base is connected to the cerebrum by two peduncles (the peduncles of the pineal gland), which pass for- wards upon the upper and inner margin of the optic thalami to the anterior crura of the fornix, with which they become blended; these two peduncles join together at their posterior extremity, in front of the pineal gland, forming a sort of festoon, and the base of the gland is connected to their posterior margin at the point of junction. In front the band of union is joined to the posterior commissure. Structure.—The pineal gland consists of a number of follicles, lined by epithelium, and connected together by ingrowths of connective tissue. The follicles contain a transparent ^dscid fluid, and a quantity of sabulous matter, named acervulus cerebri, composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime, phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, with a little animal matter. These concretions are almost constant in their existence, and are found at all periods of life. When this body is solid, the sabulous matter is found upon its surface, and occasionally upon its peduncles. On the removal of the pineal gland and adjacent portion of pia mater, the corpora quadrigemina are exposed. The corpora or tubercula quadrigemina (optic lobes) are four rounded eminences placed in pairs, two in front, and two behind, and separated from one another by a crucial depression. They are situated immediately behind the third ventricle and posterior commissure, and beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum. Below, they are separated in the middle line from the crura cerebri by the aqueduct of Sylvius, but on each side are continuous with the tegmentum of the crura. The anterior or upper pair, the nates, are the larger, oblong from before backwards, and of a grey colour. The posterior or lower pair, the testes, are hemispherical in form, and lighter in colour than the preceding. From the outer side of each of these eminences, a prominent white band, termed brachium, is continued forwards and outwards. Those from the nates (brachia anteriora) are the larger, and pass obliquely outw^ards, between the inner and outer geniculate bodies, into the optic tract. Those from the testes (brachia posterior a) pass beneath an oval prominence, the internal geniculate body, and are no longer traceable. Both pairs, in the adult, are quite solid, being composed of white matter externally, and grey matter within. These bodies are larger in the lower animals than in man. In fishes, reptiles, and birds, they are only two in number, are called the optic lobes, from their connection with the optic nerves, and are hollow in their interior; but in mammalia they are four in number, as in man, and quite solid. In the human foetus they are developed at a very early period, and form a large proportion of the cerebral mass; at first they are only two in number, as in the lower vertebrata, and hollow in their interior. These bodies are connected with the cerebellum by means of a large white cord on each side, processus ad testes, or superior peduncles of the cerebellum, which is continued onwards to the optic thalami, through the tegmentum of the crus cerebri. Beneath the corpora quadrigemina, some fibres from it decussate with those of the opposite side across the middle hne.