771 CERVICAL Distribution of the Spinal Nerves Immediately beyond the ganglion the two roots coalesce, their fibres inter- mingle, and the trunk thus formed passes out of the intervertebral foramen, and divides into a posterior division for the supply of the posterior part of the body, and an anterior division for the supply of the anterior part of the body ; each containing fibres from both roots. The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves are generally smaller than the anterior; they arise from the trunk resulting from the union of the roots, in the intervertebral foramina; and, passing backwards, divide into internal and external branches, which are distributed to the muscles and integument behind the spine. The first cervical and lower sacral nerves are exceptions to these characters. The anterior divisions of the spinal nerves supply the parts of the body in front of the spine, including the limbs. They are for the most part larger than the posterior divisions ; this increase of size being proportioned to the larger extent of structures they are required to supply. Each division is connected by slender filaments with the sympathetic. In the dorsal region the anterior divisions of the spinal nerves are completely separate from each other, and are uniform in their distribution ; but in the cervical, lumbar, and sacral regions 'they form intricate plexuses previous to their distribution. Points of Emergence of the Spinal Nerves The roots of the spinal nerves from their origin in the cord run obliquely downwards to their point of exit from the intervertebral foramina : the amount of obliquity varying in different regions of the spine, and being greater in the lower than the upper part. The level of their emergence from the cord is within certain limits variable, and of course does not correspond to the point of emergence of the nerve from the intervertebral foramina. The accompanying table, from Macalister, shows as accurately as can be shown the relation of these points of origin from the spinal cord to the bodies and spinous processes of the vertebras. Level of Body of No. of Nerve Level of tip of Spine of Level of Body of No. of Nerve C. I C.I ! D. 8 9 2 9 10 3 I C. 10 11 3 4 2 C. ' 12 4 5 3 c. 11 L. I 5 6 4c. 2 6 7 5 c. 3 8 . 6 c. 4 7 D. I 7 c. 5 D. I 2 I d. S. I 2 3 -\ 2 3 4 2"d. 3 4 5 3d. i 4 5 6 4d. 5 6 7 5d. G. I 7 8 6 d. L. 2 Level of tip of Spiue of 7d. 8 d. 9d. 10 d. 11 d. 12 d. I L. CEEVICAL NEEVES The roots of the cervical nerves increase in size from the first to the fifth, and then remain the same size to the eighth. The posterior roots bear a proportion to the anterior as 3 to i, which is much greater than in any other region, the individual filaments being also much larger than those of the anterior roots. In direction^ the roots of the cervical are less oblique than those of the other spinal nerves. The first cervical nerve is directed a little upwards and outwards ; the 3 D 2