PONS VAROLII 695 At each side its fibres become contracted into a thick rounded cord, the cms cerebelli, which enters the substance of the cerebellum, constituting its middle peduncle. Structure.—The pons Varolii consists of two parts, which differ in appearance and structure from each other: the anterior or ventral half consists for the most part of fibres arranged in transverse and longitudinal bundles with a small amount of grey matter ; the posterior or dorsal half is a continuation of the reticular formation of the medulla with the grey matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The anterior or ventral half consists of three layers of fibres : (i) superficial trans- verse fibres ; (2) superficial longitudinal fibres ; (3) deep transverse fibres. These three layers are not, however, completely differentiated from each other, for some transverse fibres may be seen between the bundles of the longitudinal fibres. The superficial transverse fibres (fig. 414) pass from the crus or middle peduncle of the Fig. 414.—Superficial dissection of the medulla oblongata and pons. (Ellis.) cerebellum to the median raphe of the pons, where they meet and interlace with those coming from the opposite side. They then dip deeply into the substance of the pons and pass to the crus cerebri of the opposite side. The superficial longi- tudinal fibres enter the pons below as a single mass, being the continuation upwards of the fibres of the pyramids of the medulla ; as they ascend they become broken up into bundles by some of the transverse fibres passing through them, and are continued into the superficial portion of the crus cerebri, much increased in number from being reinforced by the fibres derived from the nerve-cells in the deep transverse strata. The deep transverse fibres form a much thicker layer than the superficial set, and contain much grey matter between them. The fibres pass from the crus or middle peduncle of the cerebellum to the median raphe of the pons, where they meet and interlace with those coming from the opposite side. The posterior or dorsal portion of the pons is chiefly constituted by a continua-