FEMALE OKGANS OF GENERATION 1040 and a half; but its cavity is larger than in the virgin state; the external orifice is more marked ; its edges present a fissured surface; its vessels are tortuous ; and its muscular layers are more defined. In old age the uterus becomes atrophied, and paler and denser in texture; a more distinct constriction separates the body and cervix. The ostium internum and, occasionally, the vaginal orifice often become obliterated, and its labia almost entirely disappear. Appendages of the Uterus The appendages of the uterus are the Fallopian tubes, the ovaries and their ligaments, and the round ligaments. They are placed in the following order : in front is the round ligament ; the Fallopian tube occupies the upper margin of the broad ligament ; the ovary and its ligament are behind and below both. The Fallopian Tubes, or Oviducts, convey the ova from the ovaries to the cavity of the uterus. They are two in number, one on each side, situated in the upper margin of the broad ligament, extending from each superior angle of the uterus to the sides of the pelvis. Each tube is about four inches in length ; and is described as consisting of three portions : (i) the isthmus, or inner constricted half; (2) the ampulla, or outer dilated portion, which curves over the ovary ; and (3) the Fig. 616.—Uterine appendages, seen from behind. (Henle.) Fimlria ovarica - infundihulum with its ostium abdominals, surrounded by fimbri^e, one of which is attached to the ovary, the fimbria ovarica. The general direction of the Fallopian tube is outwards, backwards, and downwards. The uterine opening is minute, and will only admit a fine bristle ; the abdominal opening is comparatively much larger. In connection with the fimbriae of the Fallopian tube, or with the broad ligament close to them, there is frequently one or more small vesicles, floating on a long stalk of peritoneum. These are termed the hydatids of Morgagni, and are probably the remains of the terminal sacs of the Miillerian ducts. Structure.—The Fallopian tube consists of three coats : serous, muscular, and mucous. The external or serous coat is peritoneal. The middle or muscular coat consists of an external longitudinal and an internal circular layer of muscular fibres continuous with those of the uterus. The internal or mucous coat is continuous with the mucous lining of the uterus, and, at the free extremity of the tube, with the peritoneum. It is thrown into longitudinal folds, which in the outer, larger part of the tube, or ampulla, are much more extensive than in the narrow canal of the isthmus. The lining epithelium is cohnnnar cihated. This form of epithelium is also found on the inner surface of the fimbria ; while on the outer or serous surfaces of these processes the epithelium gradually merges into the endothelium of the peritoneum.