AETEEIES 576 Peculiarities of the Brachial Artery as regards its Course.—The brachial artery, accom- panied by the median nerve, may leave the inner border of the Biceps, and descend towards the inner condyle of the humerus, where it usually curves round a prominence of bone, to which it is connected by a fibrous band ; it then inclines outwards, beneath or through the substance of the Pronator radii teres muscle, to the bend of the elbow. The variation bears considerable analogy with the normal condition of the artery in some of the carnivora: it has been referred to, above, in the description of the humerus (page 222). As regards its Division..—Occasionally, the artery is divided for a short distance at its upper part into two trunks, which are united above and below. A similar' peculiarity occurs in the main vessel of the lower limb. The point of bifurcation may be above or below the usual point, the former condition being by far the more frequent. Out of 481 examinations recorded by Mr. Quain, some made on the right, and some on the left side of the body, in 386 the artery bifurcated in its normal position. In one case only was the place of division lower than usual, being two or three inches below the elbow-joint. 'In 94 cases out of 481, or about one in 5^, there were two arteries instead of one in some part, or in the whole of the arm.' There appears, however, to be no correspondence between the arteries of the two arms, with respect to their irregular division ; for in sixty-one bodies it occurred on one side only in forty-three; on both sides, in different positions, in thirteen; on both sides, in the same position, in five. The point of bifurcation takes place at different parts of the arm, being most frequent in the upper part, less so in the lower part, and least so in the middle, the most usual point for the application of a ligature ; under any of these circumstances, two large arteries would be found in the arm instead of one. The most frequent (in three out of four) of these peculiarities is the high division of the radial. That artery often arises from the inner side of the brachial, and runs parallel with the main trunk to the elbow, where it crosses it, lying beneath the fascia ; or it may perforate the fascia, and pass over the artery immediately beneath the integument. The idnar sometimes arises from the brachial high up, and then occasionally leaves that vessel at the lower part of the arm, and descends towards the inner condyle. In the forearm it generally lies beneath the deep fascia, superficial to the flexor muscles ; occa- sionally between the integument and deep fascia, and very rarely beneath the flexor muscles. The interosseous artery sometimes arises from the upper part of the brachial or axillary : as it passes down the arm, it lies behind the main trunk, and at the bend of the elbow regains its usual position. In some cases of high division of the radial, the remaining trunk (ulnar-interosseous) occasionally passes, together with the median nerve, along the inner margin of the arm to the inner condyle, and then passing from within outwards, beneath or through the Pronator radii teres, regains its usual position at the bend of the elbow. Occasionally, the two arteries representing the brachial are connected at the bend of the elbow by a short transverse branch, and are even sometimes reunited. Sometimes, long slender vessels, vasa aberrantia, connect the brachial or axillary arteries with one of the arteries of the forearm, or a branch from them. These vessels usually join the radial. Varieties in Muscular Belations.*—The brachial artery is occasionally concealed, in some part of its course, by muscular or tendinous slips derived from the Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, Brachialis anticus, and Pronator radii teres muscles. Surface Marhing.—The direction of the brachial artery is marked, when the arm is extended and supinated, by a line drawn from the junction of the anterior and middle third of the space between the anterior and posterior folds of the axilla—that is to say, from the inner side of the prominence of the Coraco-brachialis muscle to the point mid- way between the condyles of the humerus which corresponds to the depression along the inner border of the Coraco-brachialis and Biceps. In the upper part of its course the artery lies internal to the humerus, but below it is in front of that bone. Surgical Anatomy.—Compression of the brachial artery is required in cases of amputa- tion and some other operations in the arm and forearm ; and it will be observed, that it may be effected in almost any part of the course of the artery. If pressure is made in the upper part of the limb, it should be directed from within outwards ; and if in the lower part, from before backwards, as the artery lies on the inner side of the humerus above, and in front of it below. The most favourable situation is about the middle of the arm, where it lies on the tendon of the Coraco-brachialis on the inner flat side of the humerus. The application of a ligature to the brachial artery may be required in cases of wound of the vessel, and in some cases of wound of the palmar arch. It is also sometimes necessary in cases of aneurism oi the brachial, the radial, ulnar, or interosseous arteries. The artery may be secured in any part of its course. The chief guides in determining its position are the surface-markings produced by the inner margin of the Coraco-brachialis and Biceps, the known course of the vessel, and its pulsation, which shoidd be carefully felt for before any operation is performed, as the vessel occasionally deviates from its usual * See Struthers's Anatomical and Physiological Observations.