COSTAL CARTILAGES 209 two somewhat narrower, and the remainder, with the exception of the last two, compara- tively narrow. The lower border of the Pectoralis major muscle corresponds to the fifth rib, and below this, on the front of the chest, the broad, flat outline of the ribs, as they begin to ascend, and the more rounded outline of the costal cartilages, are often visible. The lower boundary of the front of the thorax, the abdomino-tJioracic arch, which is most plainly seen by arching the body backwards, is formed by the ensiform cartilage and the cartilages of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs, and the extremities of the eleventh and twelfth ribs or their cartilages. On each side of the chest, from the axilla downwards, the flattened external surfaces of the ribs may be defined in the form of oblic^ue ridges, separated by depressions corre- sponding to the intercostal spaces. They are, however, covered by muscles, which obscure their outline to a certain extent in the strongly developed. Nevertheless, the ribs, with the exception of the first, can generally be followed over the front and sides of the chest without difiicidty. The first rib, being almost completely covered by the clavicle and scapula, can only be distinguished in a small portion of its extent. At the back, the angles of the ribs form a slightly-marked oblique line, on each side of and some distance from the vertebral spines. This line diverges somewhat as it descends, and external to it is a broad, convex surface, caused by the projection of the ribs beyond their angles. Over this sm'face, except where covered by the scapula, the individual ribs can be distinguished. Surgical Anatomy.—Malformations of the sternum present nothing of surgical importance beyond the fact that abscesses of the mediastinum may sometimes escape tlnrough the sternal foramen. Fractures of the sternum are by no means common, owing, no doubt, to the elasticity of the ribs and their cartilages which support it like so many sprmgs. It is frequently associated with fracture of the spine, and may be caused by forcibly bending the body either backwards; or forwards until the chin becomes impacted against the top of the sternum. It may also be fractured by direct violence or by muscular action. The fracture usually occurs in the upper half of the body of the bone. Dislocation of the gladiolus from the manubrium also takes place, and is sometimes described as a fracture. The bone being subcutaneous is frequently the seat of gummatous tumours and not uncommonly is affected with caries. Occasionally the bone, and especially its ensiform appendix, becomes altered in shape and driven inwards by the pressure, in workmen, of tools against their chest. The ribs are frequently broken, though from their connections and shape they are able to withstand great force, yielding under the injury and recovering themselves like a spring. The middle of the series are the ones most liable to fracture. The first and to a less extent the second, being protected by the clavicle, are rarely fractured; and the eleventh and twelfth on accoimt of their loose and floating condition enjoy a like immunity. The fracture generally occurs from indirect violence, from forcible compression of the chest wall, and the bone then gives way at its weakest part, i.e. just in front of the angle. But the ribs may also be broken by direct violence, when the bone gives way and is driven inwards at the point struck, or by muscular action. It seems probable, however, that in these latter cases the bone has undergone some atrophic changes. Fracture of the ribs is frequently complicated with some injury to the viscera contained within the thorax or upper part of the abdominal cavity, and this is most likely to occur in fractures from direct violence. Fracture of the costal cartilages may also take place, though it is a comparatively rare injury. The thorax is frequently found to be altered in shape in certain diseases. The rickety thorax is caused chiefly by atmospheric pressure. The balance between the air on the inside of the chest and the outside during some stage of respiration is not equal, the preponderance being in favour of the air outside, and this, acting on the softened ribs, causes them to be forced in at the junction of the cartilages with the bones, which is the weakest part. In consequence of this the sternum projects forwards, with a deep depression on either side caused by the sinking in of the softened ribs. The depression is less on the left side, on account of the ribs being supported by the heart. The condition is knowm as ' pigeon-breast.' The lower ribs, however, are not involved in this deformity, as they are prevented from falling in by the ^jresence of the stomach, liver, and spleen. And when the liver and spleen are enlarged, as they sometimes are in rickets, the lower ribs may be pushed outwards: this causes a transverse constriction just above the costal arch. The anterior extremities of the ribs are usually enlarged in rickets, giving rise to what has been termed the 'rickety rosary.' The i^^i^t^^isical chest is often long and narrow, flattened from before backwards, and with great obliquity of the ribs and projection of the scapulae. In imlmonarij einphysema the chest is enlarged in all its diameters, and presents on section an almost circidar outline. It has received the name of the ' barrel-shaped chest.' In severe cases of lateral curvature of the spine, the thorax becomes much distorted. In consequence of the rotation of the bodies of the vertebrae, which takes place in this disease, the ribs opposite the convexity of the dorsal curve become extremel}^ convex behind, being thrown out and bulging, and at the same time flattened in front, so that the two ends of the same rib are almost parallel. Coincident P