677 SPINAL CORD It covers the entire surface of the cord, to which it is very intimately adherent, forming its neurilemma, and sending a process downwards into its anterior fissure. It also forms a sheath for each of the filaments of the spinal nerves, and invests the nerves themselves. A longitudinal fibrous band extends along the middle line on its anterior surface, called by Haller the linea splendens ; and a somewhat similar band, the ligamentum denticulatum, is situated on each side. At the point where the cord terminates, the pia mater becomes contracted, and is continued down as a long, slender filament {filum termmale), which descends through the centre of the mass of nerves forming the cauda equina, and is blended with the impervious sheath of dura mater, on a level with the third sacral vertebra. It assists in maintaining the cord in its position during the movements of the trunk, and is from this circumstance called the central ligament of the spinal cord. It contains a little grey nervous substance, which may be traced for some distance into its upper part, and is accompanied by a small artery and vein. At the upper part of the cord, the pia mater presents a greyish, mottled tint, which is owing to yellow or brown pigment-cells scattered among the elastic fibres. Structure.—The pia mater of the cord is less vascular in structure, but thicker and denser, than the pia mater of the brain, with which it is continuous. It consists of two layers: an outer composed of bundles of connective-tissue fibres, arranged for the most part longitudinally ; and an inner consisting of stiff bundles of the same tissue, which present peculiar angular bends, and is covered on both surfaces by a layer of endothelium. Between the two layers are a number of cleft- like lymphatic spaces, which communicate with the subarachnoid cavity, and a number of blood-vessels, which are enclosed in a perivascular sheath, derived from the inner layer of the pia mater, into which the lymphatic spaces open. It is also supplied with nerves, which are derived from the sympathetic. The Ligamentum Denticulatum (fig. 400) is a narrow fibrous band, situated on each side of the spinal cord, throughout its entire length, and separating the anterior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. It has received its name from the serrated appearance which it presents. Its inner border is continuous with the pia mater, at the side of the cord. Its outer border presents a series of triangular, dentated serrations, the points of which are fixed at intervals to the dura mater. These serrations are twenty-one in number, on each side, the first being attached to the dura mater, opposite the margin of the foramen magnum between the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve ; and the last near the lower end of the cord. Its use is to support the cord in the fluid by which it is surrounded. The Spinal Cord The Spinal Cord (medulla spinalis) is the cylindrical elongated part of the cerebro-spinal axis which is contained in the vertebral canal. Its length is usually about seventeen or eighteen inches, and its weight, when divested of its membranes and nerves, about one ounce and a half; its proportion to the encephalon being about I to 33. It does not nearly fill the canal in which it is contained, its investing membranes being separated from the surrounding walls by areolar tissue and a plexus of veins. It occupies, in the adult, the upper two-thirds of the vertebral canal, extending from the upper border of the atlas to the lower border of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a slender filament of grey substance, which is continued for some distance into the fihim terminale. In the foetus, before the third month it extends to the bottom of the sacral canal; but after this period it gradually recedes from below, as the growth of the bones composing the canal is more rapid in proportion than that of the cord ; so that in the child at birth the cord extends as far as the third lumbar vertebra. Its position varies also according to the degree of curvature of the spinal column, being raised somewhat in flexion of the spine. On examin- ing its surface, it presents a difference in its diameter in different parts, being marked by two enlargements, an upper or cervical, and a lower or lumbar. The