775 CERVICAL PLEXUS preceding. At its exit from the intervertebral foramen, it passes downwards and outwards beneath the Sterno-mastoid, and divides into two branches. The ascending branch joins the anterior division of the second cervical; the descending branch passes down in front of the Scalenus anticus, and communicates with the fourth. It gives off the greater part of the great auricular and superficial cervical nerves ; one of the communicantes hypogiossi; a branch to the supraclavicular nerves ; a filament to assist in forming the phrenic ; and muscular branches to the Levator anguli scapula and Trapezius ; this latter nerve communicates beneath the muscle with the spinal accessory. Sometimes the nerve to the Scalenus medius is derived from this source. The anterior division of the fourth cervical is of the same size as the preceding. It receives a branch from the third, sends a communicating branch to the fifth cervical, and, passing downwards and outwards, divides into numerous filaments, which cross the posterior triangle of the neck, forming the supraclavicular nerves. It gives a branch to the phrenic nerve, whilst it is contained in the intertransverse space, and sometimes a branch to the Scalenus medius muscle. It also gives a branch to the Levator anguli scapulae and to the Trapezius, which unites with the branch given off from the third nerve, and communicates beneath the muscle with the spinal accessory. The anterior divisions of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves are remarkable for their large size. They are much larger than the preceding nerves, and are all of equal size. They assist in the formation of the brachial plexus. Cervical Plexus The cervical plexus (fig. 457) is formed by the anterior divisions of the four upper cervical nerves. It is situated opposite the four upper cervical vertebrae, resting upon the Levator anguli scapulse and Scalenus medius muscles, and covered in by the Sterno-mastoid. Its branches may be divided into two groups, suijerficial and deeiJ, which may be thus arranged :— [ Occipitalis minor. /Ascending . - Auriculans magnus. I Superficialis colli. Superficial ^Descending. Supraclavicular (Suprasternal. -| Supraclavicular, i Supra-acromial. Deep Internal External I Communicating. 1 Muscular. {Communicans hypogiossi. (Phrenic. I Communicating. Muscular. Superficial Branches of the Cervical Plexus The Occipitalis minor (fig. 463, page 790) arises from the second cervical nerve ; it curves round the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, and ascends, running parallel to the posterior border of the muscle, to the back part of the side of the head. Near the cranium it perforates the deep fascia, and is continued upwards along the side of the head behind the ear, supplying the integument, and commu- nicating with the occipitalis major, the auricularis magnus, and with the posterior auricular branch of the facial. This nerve gives off an auricular branch, which supplies the integument of the upper and back part of the auricle, communicating with the mastoid branch of the auricularis magnus. This branch is occasionally derived from the great occipital nerve. The occipitalis minor varies in size ; it is occasionally double.