395 LINGUAL REGION tongue. The fibres arise from the median septum, and pass outwards to be inserted into the submucous fibrous layer at the sides of the tongue. Intermingled with these transverse intrinsic fibres are transverse extrinsic fibres derived from the Palato-glossus and the Superior constrictor of the pharynx. These transverse extrinsic fibres, however, run in the opposite direction, passing inwards towards the septum. Intersecting the transverse fibres are a large number of vertical fibres derived partly from the Genio-hyo-glossus and partly from vertical intrinsic fibres, the Vertical lingualis. The fibres derived from the Genio-hyo-glossus enter the under surface of the tongue on each side of the median septum from base to apex. They ascend in a radiating manner to the dorsum, being inserted into the sub- mucous fibrous layer covering the tongue on each side of the middle line. The Vertical lingualis is found only at the borders of the fore part of the tongue, external to the fibres of the Genio-hyo-glossus. Its fibres extend from the upper to the under surface of the tongue, decussating with the fibres of the other muscles and especially with the Transverse lingualis. The fourth layer of muscular fibres of the tongue consists partly of extrinsic fibres derived from the Stylo-glossus, and partly of intrinsic fibres, the Inferior lingualis. At the sides of the under surface of the tongue are some fibres derived from the Stylo-glossus, which, as it runs forwards at the side of the tongue, gives off fibres which, passing forwards and inwards between the fibres of the Hyo-glossus, form an inferior oblique stratum which joins in front with the anterior fibres of the Inferior lingualis. The Inferior lingualis is a longi- tudinal band, situated on the under surface of the tongue, lying in the interval between the'^Stylo-glossus, in front of the Hyo-glossus and the Genio-hyo-glossus, and extend- ing from the base to the apex of the organ. Posteriorly, some of the fibres are lost in the base of the tongue, and others are occasionally attached to the hyoid bone. It blends with the fibres of the Hyo-glossus, and is continued forwards as far as the apex of the tongue. It is in relation by its under surface with the ranine artery. Surgical Anatomy.—The fibrous septum which exists between the two halves of the tongue is very complete, so that the anastomosis between the two lingual arteries is not very free, a fact often illustrated by injecting one-half of the tongue with coloured size, while the other half is left uninjected, or is injected with size of a different colour. This is a point of considerable importance in connection with removal of one-half of the tongue for cancer, an operation which is now frequently resorted to when the disease is strictly confined to one side of the tongue. If the mucous membrane is divided longi- tudinally exactly in the middle line, the tongue can be split into halves along the median raphe, without any appreciable haemorrhage, and the diseased half can then be removed. Actions.—The movements of the tongue, although numerous and complicated, may be understood by carefully considering the direction of the fibres of its muscles. The Genio-hyo-glossi muscles, by means of their posterior fibres, draw the base of the tongue forwards, so as to protrude the apex from the mouth. The anterior fibres draw the tongue back into the mouth. The whole length of these two muscles acting along the middle line of the tongue draw it downwards, so as to make it concave from side to side, forming a channel along which fluids may pass towards the pharynx, as in sucking. The Hyo-glossi muscles depress the tongue, and draw down its sides, so as to render it convex from side to side. The Stylo- glossi muscles draw the tongue upwards and backwards. The Palato-glossi muscles draw the base of the tongue upwards. With regard to the intrinsic muscles, both the Superior and Inferior linguales tend to shorten the tongue, but the former, in addition, turn the tip and sides upwards so as to render the dorsum concave, while the latter pull the tip downwards and cause the dorsum to become convex. The Transverse lingualis narrows and elongates the tongue, and the Vertical lingualis flattens and broadens it. The complex arrangement of the muscular fibres of the tongue, and the various directions in which they run, give to this organ the power of assuming the various forms necessary for the enunciation of the different consonantal sounds ; and Dr. Macalister states that ' there is reason to believe that the musculature of the tongue varies in different races owing to the hereditary practice and habitual use of certain motions required for enunciating the several vernacular languages.'