ORGANS OF SENSE margin of the lid. They resemble in structoe a portion of a sweat-gland, and are regarded as the modified sweat-glands of this region. Structure of the eyelids.—The eyelids are composed of the following structm^es, taken in their order from without inwards :— Integument, areolar tissue, fibres of the Orbicularis muscle, tarsal plate (cartilage), and its ligament, Meibomian glands and conjunctiva. The upper lid has, in addition, the aponeurosis of the Levator palpebrse. The integument is extremely thin, and continuous at the margin of the lids with the conjunctiva. The subcutaneous areolar tissue is very lax and delicate, seldom contains any fat, and is extremely liable to serous infiltration. The fibres of the Orbicularis muscle, where they cover the palpebr^e, are thin, pale in colour, and possess an involuntary action. The tarsal plates {cartilages)^ are two thin elongated plates of dense connective tissue, about an inch in length. They are placed one in each lid, contributing to their form and support. The superior, the larger, is of a semilunar form, about one-third of an inch in breadth at the centre, and becoming gradually narrowed at each extremity. Into the anterior surface of this plate the aponeurosis of the Levator palpebrae is attached. The inferior tarsal plate, the smaller, is thinner, and of an elliptical form. The free or ciliary margin of these plates is thick, and presents a perfectly straight edge. The attacked or orbital margin is connected to the circumference of the orbit by the fibrous membrane of the lids with which it is continuous. The outer angle of each plate is attached to the malar bone by the external palpebral or tarsal ligament. The inner angles of the two plates terminate at the commencement of the lacus lachrymalis, being fixed to the margins of the orbit by the tendo oculi. The tarsal liga^nent, or fibrous membrane of the lids, is a layer of fibrous membrane, beneath the Orbicularis, attached marginally to the edge of the orbit, where it becomes continuous with the periosteum, and centrally to the tarsal plate, near its ciliary margin, with the tissue of which it is continuous. It is thickest and densest at the outer part of the orbit. Upon its under surface is a layer of unstriped muscle, which in the upper lid passes from the aponeurosis of the Levator palpebr^e muscle to the tarsal plate. This ligament serves to support the eyelids, and retains the tarsal plates in their position. The Meibomian glands (fig. 497) are situated upon the inner surface of the eyelids, between the tarsal plates and conjunctiva, and may be distinctly seen through the mucous membrane on everting the eyelids, presenting the appearance of parallel strings of pearls. They are about thirty in number in the upper eyelid, and somewhat fewer in the lower. They are embedded in grooves in the inner surface of the tarsal plates, and correspond in length with the breadth of each plate; they are, consequently, longer in the upper than in the lower eyelid, Their ducts open on the free margin of the lids by minute foramina, which correspond in number to the follicles. The peculiar parallel arrangement of these glands, side by side, forms a smooth layer adapted to the surface of the globe, over which they constantly glide. The use of their secretion is to prevent adhesions of the lids. Structure of the Meibomian glands.—These glands are a variety of the cutaneous sebaceous glands, each consisting of a single straight tube or follicle, having a csecal termination, and with numerous small secondary follicles opening into it. The tubes consist of basement-membrane, covered by a layer of scaly epithelium; the secondary follicles are lined by a layer of polyhedral cells, continuous with the cells of the tube. The remainder of the follicle is filled with large polyhedral cells, charged with fat. They are thus identical in structure with the sebaceous glands. The conjunctiva is the mucous membrane of the eye. It lines the inner surface * Eecent observations have proved that the so-called ' tarsal cartilages ' do not contain any cartilage-cells, and that the name is a misnomer.