7o6 NEEVOUS SYSTEM If the longer strip is now placed along the sagittal si;ture so that the junction of the two strips is over the point corresponding to the top of the furrow, the shorter, ohliqne strip will indicate the direction, and 3^ inches will mark the length of the furrow. Dr. AYilson has devised an instrument, called a cystometer, which combines the scale of measurements for localising the fissure, with data for representing its length and direction.* Professor Thane o-ives the lower end of the furrow as ' close to the posterior limb, and about half an inch behind the bifurcation of the fissure of Sjdvius.' So that, according to this anatomist, a line drawn from a point lialf an inch behind the mid-point between the glabella and external occipital protuberance to this spot would mark out the fissure of Rolando. Dr. Reid adopts a different method (fig. 422). He first indicates, on the surface, the longitu- dinal fissure and the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius (as above). He then draws two perpendicular lines from his ' base-line ' (that is, a line from the lowest part of the infra-orbital margin through the middle of the external auditory meatus to the back of the head) to the top of the cramum, one (d e, fig. 422) from the depression in front of the Fig. 421.—Drawing to illustrate cranio-cerebral topography. (Macalister.) Taken from a cast prepared by Professor Cunningham. Superior f rontal fissure 5/ external auditory meatus, and the other (f g, fig. 422) from the posterior border of the mastoid process at its root. He has thus described on the surface of the head a four-sided figure (f D G E, fig. 422), and a diagonal line from the posterior superior angle to the anterior perpendicular line where it is crossed by the fissure of Sylvius will represent the furrow. The 2^f'rir'fo-occi2ntal fissure on the upper siu'face of the cerebrum runs outwards at right angles to the great longitudinal fissure for about an inch, from a point ^th of an inch in frowX: of the lambda (posterior fontanelle). Eeid states that if the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius be continued onwards to the sagittal suture, the last inch of this line will indicate the position of the sulcus. The 'precnifrc.J sulcus lies in a line drawn vertically downwards from the point of junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures. It begins four-fifths of an inch in front of the middle of the fissure of Rolando, and extends nearly, but not quite, to the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. The superior frontal fissure runs backwards from the supra-orbital notch, parallel with * Lancet, vol. i. 1888, p. 408.