ANTERIOR TIBIAL *4 of the knee-joint. The internal branch passes beneath the tendon of the Adductor magnus, and divides into two, one of which suppHes the Vastus internus, inoscu- lating with the anastomotica magna and inferior internal articular; the other ramifies close to the surface of the femur, supplying it and the knee-joint, and anastomosing with the superior external articular artery. The external branch passes above the outer condyle, beneath the tendon of the Biceps, and divides into a superficial and deep branch : the superficial branch supplies the Vastus externus, and anastomoses with the descending branch of the external circumflex, and the inferior external articular arteries ; the deep branch supplies the lower part of the femur and knee-joint, and forms an anastomotic arch across the bone with the anastomotica magna and the inferior internal articular arteries. The azygos articular is a small branch, arising from the popliteal artery oppo- site the bend of the knee-joint. It pierces the posterior ligament, and supplies the ligaments and synovial membrane in the interior of the articulation. The inferior articular arteries, two in number, arise from the popUteal beneath the Gastrocnemius, and wind round the head of the tibia, below the joint. The internal one passes below the inner tuberosity, beneath the internal lateral ligament, at the anterior border of which it ascends to the front and inner side of the joint, to supply the head of the tibia and the articulation of the knee, anasto- mosing with the inferior external articular and superior internal articular arteries. The external one passes outwards above the head of the fibula, to the front of the knee-joint, passing in its course beneath the outer head of the Gastrocnemius, the external lateral ligament, and the tendon of the Biceps muscle, and divides into branches, which anastomose with the inferior internal articular artery, the superior external articular artery, and the anterior recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. Circumpatellar Anastomosis.—Around and above the patella, and on the contiguous ends of the femur &r\d tibia, is a large network of vessels, forming a superficial and deep plexus from which numerous offsets proceed into the interior of the joint. The arteries from which this plexus is formed are the two internal and two external articular branches of the popliteal; the anastomotica magna ; the terminal branch of the profunda ; the descending branch from the external circumflex and the anterior recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. The anterior tibial artery commences at the bifurcation of the popliteal, at the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, passes forwards between the two heads of the Tibialis posticus, and through the large oval aperture above the upper border of the interosseous membrane, to the deep part of the front of the leg: it then descends on the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane, gradually approaching the tibia ; and, at the lower part of the leg, lies on this bone, and then on the anterior ligament of the ankle, to the bend of the ankle-joint, where it lies more superficially, and becomes the dorsalis pedis. Eolations.—In the upper two-thirds of its extent, it rests upon the interosseous membrane, to which it is connected by delicate fibrous arches thrown across it. In the lower third, upon the front of the tibia, and the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint. In the upper third of its course, it lies between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum ; in the middle third, between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor proprius hallucis. At the bend of the ankle, it is crossed by .the tendon of the Extensor proprius hallucis, and lies between it and the innermost tendon of the Extensor longus digitorum. It is covered, in the upper two- thirds of its course, by the muscles which lie on either side of it, and by the deep fascia ; in« the lower third, by the integument, anterior annular ligament, and fascia. The anterior tibial artery is accompanied by two veins (venae comites), which lie one on each side of the artery; the anterior tibial nerve lies at first to its outer Antekior Tibial Aeteey (fig. 378)