THE SKELETOX 220 believed that many of the cases of supposed fracture of the acromion, with fibrous union, which have been found on post-mortem examination are really cases of imperfectly united epiph3'sis. Sir Astley Cooper believed that most fractures of this bone united by fibroiis tissue, and the cause of this mode of union was the difficulty there was in keepino' the fractured ends in constant apposition. The coracoid process is occasionally broken olf, either from direct violence or perhaps, rarely, from muscular action. Tmnours of various kinds grow from the scapula. Of the innocent form of tumours probablj' the osteomata are the most common. "When this grows from the venter of the scaprda, as it sometimes does, it is of the compact v ariety, such as usually grows from membrane-formed bones, as the bones of the skull. This would appear to afford evidence that this portion of the bone is formed from membrane, and not like the rest of the bone from cartilage. Sarcomatous tmnoiu-s sometimes grow h'om the scapula and ma^' necessitate remo^■al of the bone, with or without amputation of the upper limb. The bone may be excised by a T incision and the flaps being reflected, the removal is commejiced from the posterior or vertebral border, so that the subscapular v essels which lie along the axillary border are among the last structures divided, and can be at once secured. The Humerus The Humerus is the longest and largest bone of the upper extremity ; it presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. The Upper Extremity is the largest part of the bone; it presents a rounded liead, joined to the shaft by a constricted portion, called the neck, and two other eminences, the greater and lesser tuberosities (fig. 197). The head, nearly hemispherical in form,* is directed upwards, inwards, and a little backw^ards, and articulates with the glenoid cavity of the scapula; its surface s smooth, and coated with cartilage in the recent state. The circumfereuce of its articular surface is slightly constricted, and is termed the anatomical neck, in contradistinction to the constriction which exists below the tuberosities. The latter is called the surgical neck, from its often being the seat of fracture. It should be remembered, however, that fracture of the anatomical neck does sometimes, though rarely, occur. The anatomical neck is obliquely directed, forming an obtuse angle with the shaft. It is more distinctly marked in the lower half of its circumference than in the upper half, where it presents a narrow groove, separating the head from the tuberosities. Its circumference affords attachment to the capsular ligament, and is perforated by numerous vascular foramina. The greater tuberosity is situated on the outer side of the head and lesser tuberosity. Its upper surface is rounded and marked by three fiat facets, separated by two slight ridges : the anterior facet gives attachment to the tendon of the Supraspinatus ; the middle one to the Infraspinatus ; the posterior facet, and the shaft of the bone below it, to the Teres minor. The outer surface of the great tuberosity is convex, rough, and continuous with the outer side of the shaft. The lesser tuberosity is more prominent, although smaller, than the greater : it is situated in front of the head, and is directed inwards and forwards. Its summit presents a prominent facet for the insertion of the tendon of the Sub- scapularis muscle. The tuberosities are separated from one another by a deep groove, the bicipital groove, so called from its lodging the long tendon of the Biceps muscle, with which runs a branch of the anterior circumflex artery. It commences above between the two tuberosities, passes obliquely downwards and a little inwards, and terminates at the junction of the upper with the middle third of the bone. It is deep and narrow at the commencement, and becomes shallow and a little broader as it descends. Its borders are called, respectively, the anterior and posterior bicijjital ridges, and form the upper part of the anterior and internal borders of the shaft of the bone. In the recent state it is covered with * Though the head is nearlj'^ hemispherical in form, its margin, as Sir G. Humj)hry has shown, is by no means a true circle. Its greatest measurement is, from the top of the bicipital groove in a direction downwards, inwards, and backwards. Hence it follows that the greatest elevation of the arm can be obtained by rolling the articular surface in this direction—that is to say, obliquely upwards, outwards, and forwards.