l82 THE SKELETON depression. Behind and external to the latter opening is the foramen ovale, which transmits the third division of the fifth or inferior maxillary nerve, the small meningeal artery, and the small petrosal nerve.* On the outer side of the foramen ovale is the foramen spinosum, for the passage of the middle meningeal artery ; and on the inner side of the foramen ovale, the foramen lacerum inedium. The lower part of this aperture is filled up with cartilage in the recent state. The Vidian nerve and a meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery pierce this cartilage. On the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone is seen, from without inwards, the eminence caused by the projection of the superior semicircular canal; outside this a depression corresponding to the roof of the tympanum ; the groove leading to the hiatus Fallopii, for the transmission of the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve and the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery ; beneath it, the smaller groove, for the passage of the lesser petrosal nerve ; and, near the apex of the bone, the depression for the Gasserian ganglion ; and the orifice of the carotid canal, for the passage of the internal carotid artery and carotid plexus of nerves. The Posterior Fossa, deeply concave, is the largest of the three, and situated on a lower level than either of the preceding. It is formed by the posterior third of the superior surface of the body of the sphenoid, by the occipital, the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal, and the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone ; it is crossed by four sutures, the petro-occipital, the masto-occipital, the masto-parietal, and the basilar; and lodges the cerebellum, pons Varolii, and medulla oblongata. It is separated from the middle fossa in the median line by the dorsum ephippii, and on each side by the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. This border serves for the attachment of the tentorium cerebelli, is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus, and at its inner extremity presents a notch, upon which rests the fifth nerve. The circumference of the fossa is bounded posteriorly by the grooves for the lateral sinuses. In the centre of this fossa is the foramen magnum, bounded on either side by a rough tubercle, which gives attachment to the odontoid or check ligaments ; and a little above these are seen the internal openings of the anterior condyloid foramina, through which pass the hypoglossal nerve and a meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery. In front of the foramen magnum is a grooved surface, formed | by the basilar process of the occipital bone and by the posterior third of the superior I surface of the body of the sphenoid, which supports the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii, and articulates on each side with the petrous portion of the temporal | bone, forming the petro-occipital suture, the anterior half of which is grooved for j the inferior petrosal sinus, the posterior half being encroached upon by the foramen lacerum posterius, or jugular foramen. This foramen presents three compartments : , through the anterior, passes the inferior petrosal sinus ; through the posterior, the j lateral sinus and some meningeal branches from the occipital and ascending j pharyngeal arteries; and through the middle, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- j gastric and spinal accessory nerves. Above the jugular foramen is the internal \ aiiditory meatus, for the facial and auditory nerves and auditory artery; behind | and external to this is the slit-like opening leading into the aqugeductus vestibuli ; whilst between the two latter, and near the superior border of the petrous portion, is a small, triangular depression which lodges a process of the dura mater and occasionally transmits a small vein into the substance of the bone. Behind the : foramen magnum are the inferior occipital fossce, which lodge the hemispheres of the cerebellum, separated from one another by the internal occipital crest, which ; serves for the attachment of the falx cerebelli, and lodges the occipital sinus. The ; posterior fossse are surmounted, above, by the deep transverse grooves for the j lodgment of the lateral sinuses. These channels, in their passage outwards, | groove the occipital bone, the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, the mastoid J portion of the temporal, and the jugular process of the occipital, and terminate at ; * See footnote, p. 152.