972 ORGAXS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION each lateral half of the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage ; its fibres pass upwards and outwards, converging to be inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The upper fibres are nearly horizontal, the middle obhque, and the lower almost ver- FiG. 571.—Muscles of larynx. Side view Eight ala of thyroid cartilage removed. Cornicu laryn Articular facet for inferior coriiii uj thyroid cartilage ticaL* The Crico-arytenoideus lateralis is smaller than the preceding, and of an oblong form. It arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid cartilage, and, passing ob- liquely upwards and backwards, is inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, in front of the preceding muscle. The Arytenoideus is a single muscle, filling up the posterior con- cave surface of the arytenoid carti- lages. It arises from the posterior surface and outer border of one arytenoid cartilage, and is inserted into the corresponding parts of the opposite cartilage. It consists of three i^lanes of fibres, two oblique and one transverse. The oblique fibres, the most superficial, form two fasciculi, which pass from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the opposite one. The transverse fibres, the deepest and most nume- rous, pass transversely across be- tween the two cartilages; hence the Arytenoideus was formerly con- sidered as several muscles, under the name of transversi and obliqtii. A few of the oblique fibres are occasionally continued round the outer margin of the cartilage, and blend with the Thyro-arytenoid or the Aryteno-epiglottideus muscle. The Thyro-arytenoideus is a broad, flat muscle, which lies parallel with the outer side of the true vocal cord. It arises in front from the lower half of the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and from the crico-thyroid membrane. * Dr. Merkel, of Leipsic, has descri- bed a muscular slip which occasionally extends between the outer border of the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage and the posterior margm of the inferior cornu of the thyroid; this he calls the ' Musculus kerato-cricoideus.' It is not found in every larynx, and when pre- sent exists usually only on one side, but is occasionally found on both sides. Sir Wm. Turner {Edinburgh Medical Journal, Feb. i860) states that it is found m about one case in five. Its action is to fix the lower horn of the thjTroid cartilage backwards and downwards, opposing in some measure the part of the Crico-thyroid muscle which is connected to the anterior margin of the horn. Fig. 572.- -Interior of the larynx, seen from above. (Enlarcred.)