AKTEEIES 6i6 aneurism needle must be carefully introduced and kept close to the artery, to avoid the femoral vein, which lies behind the vessel in this part of its course. To expose the artery, in Hunter's canal, an incision should be made through the integument, betw^een three and four inches in length, a finger's breadth internal to the line of the artery, in the middle of the thigh—i.e. midway between the groin and the knee. The fascia lata having been divided, and the Sartorius muscle exposed, it should be drawn inwards, when the strong fascia which is stretched across fi'om the Adductors to the Vastus internus will be exposed, and must be fi-eely divided ; the sheath of the vessels is now seen, and must be opened, and the artery secured by passing the aneurism needle between the vein and artery, in the direction from without inwards. The femoral vein in this situation lies on the outer side of the artery, the long sa.phenous nerve on its anterior and outer side. It has been seen that the femoral artery occasionally divides into two trunks below the origin of the profunda. If, in the operation for tying the femoral, two vessels are met with, the surgeon should alternately compress each, in order to ascertain which vessel is connected with the aneurismal tumour, or with the bleeding from the wound, and that one only should be tied which controls the pulsation or haemorrhage. If, however, it is necessary to compress both vessels before the circulation in the tumour is controlled, both should be tied, as it would be probable that they became reunited, as in the instances referred to above. In wounds of the femoral artery the question of the mode of treatment is of considerable importance. If the wound in the superficial structures is a large one, the injured vessel must be exposed and tied; but if the wound is a punctured one and the bleeding has ceased, the question will arise whether to cut down upon the artery or to trust to pressure. Mr. Cripps * advises, that if the wound is in the ' upper part of the thigh—that is to say, in a position where the femoral artery is comparatively superficial—the surgeon may enlarge the opening with a good prospect of finding the wounded vessel without an extensive or prolonged operation. If the wound be in the lower half of the thigh, owing to the greater depth of the artery, and the possibility of its being the popliteal that is wounded, the search is rendered a far more severe and hazardous operation, and it should not be undertaken until a thorough trial of pressure has proved ineffectual.' Great care and attention are necessary for the successful application of pressure. The limb should be carefully bandaged from the foot upwards to the wound, which is not covered, and then onwards to the groin. The wound is then dusted with iodoform or boracic powder, and a conical pad applied over the wound. Eollers the thickness of the index finger are then placed along the course of the vessel above and below the wound, and the whole carefully bandaged to a back splint with a foot-piece. Collateral Circulation.—AVhen the common femoral is tied, the main channels for carrying on the circulation are the anastomoses of the gluteal and circumflex iliac arteries above with the external circumflex below ; of the obtm^ator and sciatic above with the internal circumflex below ; and of the comes nervi ischiadici with the arteries in the ham. The principal agents in carrying on the collateral circulation after ligature of the super- ficial femoral artery are, according to Sir A. Cooper, as follows :— ' The arteria profunda formed the new channel for the blood.' ' The first artery sent off passed down close to the back of the thigh-bone, and entered the two superior articular branches of the popliteal artery.' ' The second new large vessel, arising from the profunda at the same part with the former, passed down by the inner side of the Biceps muscle, to a branch of the popliteal which was distributed to the Gastrocnemius muscle ; whilst a third artery, dividing into several branches, passed down with the sciatic nerve behind the knee-joint, and some of its branches united themselves with the inferior articular arteries of the popliteal, with some recurrent branches of those arteries, with arteries passing to the Gastrocnemii, and, lastly, with the origin of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries.' ' It appears then that it is those branches of the profunda which accompany the sciatic nerve that are the principal supporters of the new circulation.' t In Porta's work \ (tab. xii. xiii.) is a good representation of the collateral circulation after the ligature of the femoral artery. The patient had survived the operation three years. The lower part of the artery is at least as large as the upper; about two inches of the vessel appear to have been obliterated. The external and internal circumflex arteries are seen anastomosing by a great number of branches with the lower branches of the femoral (muscular and anastomotica magna), and with the articular branches of the popliteal. The branches from the external circumflex are extremely large and numerous. One very distinct anastomosis can be traced between this artery on the outside and the anastomotica magna on the inside, through the intervention of the superior external articular artery, with which they both anastomose; and blood reaches even the anterior tibial recurrent from the external circumflex by means of anastomosis with the same external articular artery. The perforating branches of the profunda are also seen bringing blood round the obliterated portion of the artery into long branches (muscular) which * Heath's Dictionary of Practical Surgery, vol. i. p. 525. '\ Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. ii. 1811. t Alteraziom patologiclie delle Arterie.