SPINAL 651 vertebrae, and they join with the veins in the spinal canal by branches which perforate the ligamenta subflava. Other branches pass obliquely forwards, between the transverse processes, and communicate with the intraspinal veins through the intervertebral foramina. They terminate by joining the vertebral veins in the neck, the intercostal veins in the thorax, and the lumbar and sacral veins in the loins and pelvis. 2. The Meningo-rachidian Veins.—The principal veins contained in the spinal canal are situated between the theca vertebralis and the vertebrae. They consist of two longitudinal plexuses, one of which runs along the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae (anterior longitudinal spinal veins). The other plexus {posterior longitudinal spinal veins) is placed on the inner or anterior surface of the laminae of the vertebrae. The Anterior Longitudinal Spinal Veins consist of two large, tortuous veins, which extend along the whole length of the vertebral column, from the foramen magnum, where they communicate by a venous ring around that opening, to the base of the coccyx, being placed one on each side of the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, along the margin of the posterior common ligament. These veins communicate together opposite each vertebra by transverse trunks, which pass beneath the ligament, and receive the large vence, basis vertebrarum from the interior of the body of each vertebra. The anterior longitudinal spinal Fig. 390.—Vertical section of two dorsal vertebrae, showing the spinal veins. veins are least developed in the cervical and sacral regions. They are not of uniform size throughout, being alternately enlarged and constricted. At the intervertebral foramina, they communicate with the dorsi-spinal veins, and with the vertebral veins in the neck, with the intercostal veins in the dorsal region, and with the lumbar and sacral vems in the corresponding regions. The Posterior Longitudinal Spinal Veins, smaller than the anterior, are situated one on each side, between the inner surface of the laminae and the theca vertebralis. They communicate (like the anterior), opposite each vertebra, by transverse trunks ; and with the anterior longitudinal veins, by lateral transverse branches, which pass from behind forwards. These veins, by branches which perforate the ligamenta subflava, join with the dorsi-spinal veins. From them branches are given off, which pass through the intervertebral foramina and join the vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, and sacral veins. 3. The Veins of the Bodies of the Vertebrae {vcnce, basis' vertebrarum) emerge from the foramina on their posterior surface, and join the transverse trunk connecting the anterior longitudinal spinal veins. They are contained in large, tortuous channels in the substance of the bones, similar in every respect to those found in the diploe of the cranial bones. These canals lie parallel to the upper and lower surface of the bones. They commence by small openings on the front and sides of the bodies of the vertebra, through which communicating branches from the veins external to the bone pass into its substance, and converge to the