488 MUSCLES AND FASCIA single tendon, attached to the patella, and above, subdivided into separate portions, which have received distinct names. Of these, one occupying the middle of the thigh, connected above Avith the ilium, is called the Bectus feiiioris, from its straight course. The other divisions lie in immediate connection with the shaft of the femur, which they cover from the trochanters to the condyles. The portion on the outer side of the femur is termed the Vastus externus; that covering the inner side, the Vastus interims ; and that covering the front of the femur, the Crureus. The two latter portions are, however, so intimately blended as to form but one muscle. The Rectus femoris is situated in the middle of the anterior region of the thigh ; it is fusiform in shape, and its superficial fibres are arranged in a bipenni- form manner, the deep fibres running straight down to the deep aponeurosis. It arises by two tendons : one, the straight tendon, or short head, from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium ; the other is flattened, and curves outwards, to be attached to a groove above the brim of the acetabulum ; this is the reflected tendon, or long head, of the Rectus ; it unites with the straight tendon at an acute angle, and then spreads into an aponeurosis, from which the muscular fibres arise.* The muscle terminates in a broad and thick aponeurosis, which occupies the lower two-thirds of its posterior surface, and, gradually becoming- narrowed into a flattened tendon, is inserted into the patella in common with the Vasti and Crureus. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the anterior fibres of the Gluteus minimus, the Tensor vaginae femoris, the Sartorius, and the Psoas and Iliacus ; by its lower three-fourths, with the fascia lata. By its posterior surface, with the hip-joint, the external circumflex vessels, and the Crureus and Vasti muscles. The three remaining muscles have been described collectively by some anatomists, separate from the Rectus, under the name of the Triceps extensor cruris. The Vastus externus is the largest part of the Quadriceps extensor. It arises by a broad aponeurosis, which is attached to the tubercle of the femur, to the anterior and inferior borders of the great trochanter, to a rough line leading from the trochanter major to the linea aspera, and to the outer lip of the linea aspera : this aponeurosis covers the upper three-fourths of the muscle, and from its inner surface many fibres arise. A few additional fibres arise from the tendon of the Gluteus maximus, and from the external intermuscular septum between the Vastus externus and short head of the Biceps. The fibres form a large fleshy mass, which is attached to a strong aponeurosis, placed on the under surface of the muscle it its lower part: this becomes contracted and thickened into a flat tendon, which as inserted into the outer border of the patella, blending with the great extensor tendon. Relations.—By its stiperficial surface, with the Rectus, the Tensor vaginae femoris, the fascia lata, and the Gluteus maximus, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa. By its deep surface, with the Crureus, some large branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve being interposed. The Vastus internus and Crureus are so inseparably connected together as to form but one muscle, as which it will be accordingly described. It is the smallest portion of the Quadriceps extensor. The anterior portion of it, covered by the Rectus, is called the Crureus; the internal portion, which lies immediately beneath the fascia lata, the Vastus internus. It arises by an aponeurosis, which is attached to the lower part of the line that extends from the inner side of the neck of the femur to the linea aspera, from the inner lip of the linea aspera, from the ridge leading from the linea aspera to the internal condyle and internal * Mr. W. R. Williams, in an interesting paper m the Journ. of Anat, and Phys. vol. xiii. p. 204, points out that the reflected tendon is the real origin of the muscle, and is alone present in early fcetal life. The direct tendon is merely an accessory band of condensed fascia. The paper wiU well repay perusal, though in some particulars I think the description in the text more generally accurate.—Ed.