644 VEINS cavernous sinus with the pterygoid ani a small vein passing through the for; Fig. 387,—The superficial veins of the upper extremity. pharyngeal plexuses. 7. There is sometimes men of Vesalius connecting the same parts. 8. A plexus of veins passing through the carotid canal and connecting the cavernous sinus Avith the internal jugular vein. Surgical Anatomy.—These emissary veins are of great importance in surgery. In addition to them there are, however, other communica- tions between the intra- and extra-cranial circula- tion. As, for instance, the communication of the angular and supra-orbital veins with the ophthal- mic vein, at the inner angle of the orbit (page 634) and the communication of the veins of the scalp with the diploic veins (page 638). Through these communications inflammatory processes commencing on the outside of the skull may travel inwards, leading to osteo-phlebitis of the diploe and inflammation of the membranes of the brain. To this must be attributed one of the principal dangers of scalp wounds and other injuries of the scalp. By means of these emissary veins blood may be abstracted almost directly from the intra- cranial circulation. For instance, leeches applied behind the ear abstract blood almost directly from the lateral sinus, through the vein passing through the mastoid foramen. Again, epistaxis in children will frequently relieve severe headache, the blood which flows from the nose being derived from the longitudinal sinus by means of the vein which passes through the foramen caecum, which is another communication between the intra- cranial and extracranial circulation which is constantly found in children. VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY AND THORAX The Veins of the Upper Extremity are divided into two sets, superficial and deep. The Superficial Veins are placed immedi- ately beneath the integument between the two layers of superficial fascia. The Deep Veins accompany the arteries, and constitute the venas comites of those vessels. Both sets of vessels are provided with valves wdiich are more numerous in the deep than in the superficial. The superficial veins of the upper ex- tremity are, the Superficial Veins of the Hand. Anterior Ulnar. Posterior Ulnar. Common Ulnar. Radial. Median. Median Basilic. Median Cephalic. Basilic. Cephalic. The Superficial Veins of the Hand and Fingers are principally situated on the