787 MUSCULO-SPIRAL Triceps muscle. That to the inner head of the Triceps is a long, slender filament, which lies close to the ulnar nerve, as far as the lower third of the arm, and is often intimately connected with it. The posterior muscular branch, of large size, arises from the nerve in the groove between the Triceps i Vim-nnvnc Tf. rliTTirloa Fig. 462.- -The suprascapular, circumflex, and musculo-spiral nerves. Siiprascapula') Circumflex Muscido-S'piTal and the humerus. It divides into branches, which supply the outer head of the Triceps and Anconeus muscles. The branch for the latter muscle is a long, slender filament, which descends in the sub- stance of the Triceps to the Anconeus. The external muscular branches supply the Supinator longus, Extensor carpi radialis longior,and (usually) the outer part of the Brachialis anticus. The cutaneous branches are three in number, one in- ternal and two external. The internal cutaneous branch arises in the axillary space, with the inner muscular branch. It is of small size, and passes through the axilla to the inner side of the arm, supplying the integument on its posterior aspect nearly as far as the olecranon. In its course it crosses beneath the intercosto-humeral, with which it communicates. The two external cutane- ous branches perforate the outer head of the Triceps, at its attachment to the humerus. The upper and smaller one passes to the front of the elbow, lying close to the ce- phalic vein, and supplies the integument of the lower half of the arm on its anterior aspect. The lower branch pierces the deep fascia below the insertion of the Deltoid, and passes down along the outer side of the arm and elbow, and then along the back part of the radial side of the forearm to the wrist, sup- plying the integument in its course, and joining, near its termination, with the posterior cutaneous branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The radial nerve passes along the front of the radial side of the forearm to the commencement of its lower third. It lies at first a Uttle to the outer side of 3 E 2 Posterior ■interosseous