1025 COVERINGS OF THE TESTIS scrotum; hence it may be described as consisting of a visceral and parietal portion. The visceral portion {tunica vaginalis propria) covers the outer surface of the testis, as well as the epididymis, connecting the latter to the testis by means of a distinct fold. From the posterior border of the gland, it is reflected on to the internal surface of the scrotum. The parietal portion of the serous membrane {tunica vagifialis reflexa) is far more extensive than the visceral portion, extending upwards for some distance in front, and on the inner side of the cord, and reaching below the testis. The inner surface of the tunica vaginalis is free, smooth, and covered by a layer of endothelial cells. The interval between the visceral and parietal layers of this membrane constitutes the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. The obliterated portion of the pouch may generally be seen as a fibro-cellular thread lying in the loose areolar tissue around the spermatic cord; sometimes this may be traced as a distinct band from the upper end of the inguinal canal, where it is connected with the peritoneum, down to the tunica vaginalis.; sometimes it gradually becomes lost on the spermatic cord. Occasionally no trace of it can be detected. In some cases it happens that Fig. 608.—The testis in situ, the tunica the pouch of peritoneum does not become vaginahs having been laid open, obliterated, but the sac of the peritoneum communicates with the tunica vaginalis. This may give rise to one of the varieties of oblique inguinal hernia (page 1055). Or in other cases the pouch may contract, but not become entirely obliterated; it then forms a minute canal leading from the peritoneum to the tunica vaginalis.* The Tunica Albuginea is the fibrous ^'^'^^^^^^"^-^^''^ covering of the testis. It is a dense fibrous ^^'^^^ membrane, of a bluish-white colour, com- posed of bundles of white fibrous tissue, which interlace in every direction. Its outer surface is covered by the tunica vaginalis, except along its posterior bor- der, at the points of attachment of the epididymis ; hence the tunica albuginea is usually considered as a fibro-serous mem- brane, like the pericardium. This mem- brane surrounds the glandular structure of the testicle, and, at its posterior border, is reflected into the interior of the gland, forming an incomplete vertical septum, called the 7nediastinum testis {corpus High- morianum). The mediastinum testis extends from the upper, nearly to the lower border of the gland, and is wider above than below. From the front and sides of this septum numerous slender fibrous cords and imperfect septa {trabeculce) are given off, which radiate towards the surface of the organ, and are attached to the inner surface of the tunica albuginea. They therefore divide the interior of the organ into a number of incomplete spaces, which are somewhat cone-shaped, being broad at their bases at the surface of the gland, and becoming narrower as they converge to the mediastinum. The mediastinum supports the vessels and ducts of the testis in their passage to and from the substance of the gland. * It is recorded that in the post-mortem exanimation of Sir Astley Cooper, this minute canal was found on both sides of the body. Sir Astley Cooper states that when a student he suffered from inguinal hernia ; probably this was of the congenital variety, and the canal found after death was the remains of the one down which the hernia travelled.— Lancet, vol. ii. 1824, p. 116. 3U