ARTERIES 572 Relations of the Third Portion of the Axillary Artery In front. Integument and fascia. Pectoralis major. Inner head of median nerve. Coraco-bracliialis. Median nerve. Musculo-ciitaneous neive. Outer side. Ulnar nerve. Internal cutaneous nerves. Axillary veins. Inner side. Behind. Subscapularis. Tendons of Latissimus dorsi and Teres major. Musculo-spiral, and circumflex nerves. Surface Marlxing.—The course of the axillary artery may be marked out by raising the arm to a right angle and drawing a line from the middle of the clavicle to the point where the tendon of the Pectoralis major crosses the prominence caused by the Coraco- brachialis as it emerges from under cover of the anterior fold of the axilla. The third portion of the artery can be felt pulsating beneath the skin and fascia, at the junction of the anterior with the middle third of the space between the anterior and posterior folds of the axilla, close to the inner border of the Coraco-brachialis. Surgical Anatomy.—The student, having carefully examined the relations of the axillary artery in its various parts, should now consider m what situation compression of this vessel may be most easily effected, and the best position for the api)lication of a ligature to it when necessary. Compression of the vessel may be required in the removal of tumours, or in amputa- tion of the upper part of the arm ; and the only situation in which this can be effectually made is in the lower part of its course; by pressing on it in this situation from within outwards against the humerus, the circulation may be effectually arrested. The axillary artery is perhaps more frequently lacerated than any other artery in the body, with the exception of the popliteal, by violent movements of the upper extremity, especially in those cases where its coats are diseased. It has occasionally been ruptured in attempts to reduce old dislocations o^-the shoulder-joint. This lesion is most likely to occur during the preliminary breaking down of adhesions, in consequence of the artery having contracted adhesions to the capsule of the joint. Aneurism of the axillary artery is of frequent occurrence : a large percentage of the cases being traumatic in their origin, due to the violence to wdiich it is exposed in the varied, extensive, and often violent movement of the limb. The application of a ligature to the axillary artery may be required in cases of aneurism of the upper part of the brachial, or as a distal operation for aneurism of the subclavian ; and there are only two situations in which it can be secured, viz. in the first and in the third parts of its course ; for the axillary artery at its central part is so deeply seated, and, at the same time, so closely surrounded with large nervous trunks, that the application of a ligature to it in that situation would be almost impracticable. In the third j^art of its course the operation is most simple, and may be performed in the following manner :—The patient being placed on a bed, and the arm separated from the side, with the hand supinated, an incision is made through the integument formmg the floor of the axilla, about two inches in length, a little nearer to the anterior than the posterior fold of the axilla. After carefully dissecting through the areolar tissue and fascia, the median nerve and axillary vein are exposed ; the former having been displaced to the outer, and the latter to the inner side of the arm, the elbow being at the same time bent, so as to relax the structures and facilitate their separation, the ligature may be passed round the artery from the ulnar to the radial side. This portion of the artery is occasionally crossed by a m^^scular slip derived from the Latissimus dorsi, which may mislead the surgeon during an operation. The occasional existence of this muscular fasciculus was spoken of in the description of the muscles. It may easily be recognised by the transverse direction of its fibres. The first jJortion of the axillary artery may be tied in cases of aneurism encroaching so far upwards that a ligature cannot be applied in the lower part of its course. Notwith- standing that this operation has been performed in some few cases, and with success, its performance is attended with much difficulty and danger. The student will remark that, in this situation, it would be necessary to divide a thick muscle, and, after separating the costo-coracoid membrane, the artery would be exposed at the bottom of a more or less deep space, with the cephalic and axillary veins in such relation with it as must render the application of a ligature to this part of the vessel particularly hazardous. Under such circumstances it is an easier, and, at the same time, more advisable operation, to tie the subclavian arterj^ in the third part of its course.