TEMPORAL BONE 145 long, arched process of bone, the zygoma or zygomatic process. This process is at first directed outwards, its two surfaces looking upwards and downwards ; it then appears as if twisted upon itself, and runs forAvards, its surfaces now looking inwards and outwards. The superior border of the process is long, thin, and sharp, and serves for the attachment of the temporal fascia. The inferior, short, thick, and arched, has attached to it some fibres of the Masseter muscle. Its outer surface is convex and subcutaneous ; its inner is concave, and also affords attachment to the Masseter. The extremity, broad and deeply serrated, articulates with the malar bone. The zygomatic process is connected to the temporal bone by three divisions, called its roots—an anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior, which is short, but broad and strong, is directed inwards, to terminate in a rounded eminence, the eminentia articularis. This eminence forms the front boundary of the glenoid fossa, and in the recent state is covered with cartilage. The middle root forms the outer margin of the glenoid fossa ; running obliquely inwards, it terminates at the commencement of a well-marked fissure, the Glaserian fissure ; whilst the posterior root, which is strongly marked, runs from the upper border of the zygoma, in an arched direction, upwards and backwards, forming the posterior part of the temporal ridge. At the junction of the anterior root with the zygoma is a projection, called the tubercle, for the attachment of the external lateral ligament of the lower jaw ; and between the anterior and middle roots is an oval depression, forming part of the glenoid fossa (yXyjvrj, a socket), for the reception of the condyle of the lower jaw. This fossa is bounded, in front, by the eminentia articularis ; behind, by the tympanic plate ; and, externally, by the auditory process and middle root of the zygoma ; and is divided into two parts by a narrow slit, the Glaserian fissure. The anterior part, formed by the squamous portion of the bone, is smooth, covered in the recent state with cartilage, and articulates with the condyle of the lower jaw. This part of the glenoid fossa is separated from the auditory process by a small tubercle, the j^ost-glenoid process, the representative of a prominent tubercle which, in some of the mammalia, descends behind the condyle of the jaw, and prevents it being displaced backwards during mastication (Humphry). The posterior part of the glenoid fossa, which lodges a portion of the parotid gland, is formed chiefly by the tympanic plate, a lamina of bone, which forms the anterior wall of the tympanum and external auditory meatus. This plate of bone terminates externally in the auditory process, above in the Glaserian fissure, and below forms a sharp edge, the vaginal process, which gives origin to some of the fibres of the Tensor palati muscle. The Glaserian fissure, which leads into the tympanum, lodges the processus gracilis of the malleus, and transmits the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery. The chorda tympani nerve passes through a separate canal, parallel to the Glaserian fissure [canal of Huguier), on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, in the retiring angle between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone.* The internal surface of the squamous portion (fig. 139) is concave, presents numerous eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the cerebrum, and two well-marked grooves for the branches of the middle meningeal artery. Borders.—The superior border is thin, bevelled at the expense of the internal surface, so as to overlap the lower border of the parietal bone, forming the squamous suture. The anterior inferior border is thick, serrated, and bevelled, alternately at the expense of the inner and outer surfaces, for articulation with the great wing of the sphenoid. The Mastoid Portion (yu^ao-ro?, a nipple or teat) is situated at the posterior part of the bone ; its outer surface is rough, and gives attachment to the Occipito-frontalis and Retrahens aurem muscles. It is perforated by numerous foramina; one of these, of large size, situated at the posterior border of the bone, is termed the mastoid forctmen ; it transmits a vein to the lateral sinus and a small artery from the occipital, to supply the dura mater. The position and size of this foramen * This small fissure must not be confounded with the large canal which lies above the Eustachian tube and transmits the Tensor tvmpani muscle. L