THE SKELETON plate. A few fibres of the Superior constrictor arise from the tuberosity of the palate-bone. The base of this process, continuous with the horizontal portion of the bone, presents the apertures of the accessory descending iKilatine canals, through which pass the two smaller descending branches of Meckel's ganglion; whilst its outer surface is rough for articulation with the inner surface of the body of the superior maxillary bone. The superior border of the vertical plate presents two well-marked processes separated by an intervening notch or foramen. The anterior, or larger, is called the orbital process ; the posterior, the sphenoidal. The Orbital Process, directed upwards and outwards, is placed on a higher level than the sphenoidal. It presents five surfaces, which enclose a hollow cellular cavity, and is connected to the perpendicular plate by a narrow, constricted neck. Of these five surfaces, three are articular, two non-articular or free ^rfaces. The three articular are the anterior or maxillary surface, which is directed forwards, outwards, and downwards, is of an oblong form, and rough for articulation with the superior maxillary bone. The posterior or sphenoidal surface is directed backwards, upwards, and inwards. It ordinarily presents a small,* open cell, which communicates with the sphenoidal cells, and the margins of which are serrated for articulation with the vertical part of the sphenoidal turbinated bone. The internal or ethmoidal surface is directed inwards, upwards, and forwards, and articulates with the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone. In some cases, the cellular cavity above mentioned opens on this surface of the bone ; it then communicates with the posterior ethmoidal cells. More rarely it opens on both surfaces, apd then communicates both with the posterior ethmoidal and the sphenoidal cells. The non-articular or free surfaces are the superior or orbital, directed upwards and outwards, of triangular form, concave, smooth, and forming the back part of the floor of the orbit; and the external or zycjoinatic surface, directed outwards, backwards, and downwards, of an oblong form, smooth, lying in the spheno- maxillary fossa, and looking into the zygomatic fossa. The latter surface is separated from the orbital by a smooth, rounded border, which enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The Sphenoidal Process of the palate-bone is a thin, compressed plate, much smaller than the orbital, and directed upwards and inwards. It presents three surfaces and two borders. The superior surface, the smallest of the three, arti- culates with the under surface of the sphenoidal turbinated bone ; it presents a groove, which contributes to the formation of the pterygo-palatine canal. The internal surface is concave, and forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The external surface is divided into an articular and a non-articular portion : the former is rough, for articulation with the inner surface of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid ; the latter is smooth, and forms part of the spheno-maxillary fossa. The anterior border forms the posterior boundary of the spheno-ioalatine foramen. The posterior border, serrated at the expense of the outer table, articulates with the inner surface of the pterygoid process. The orbital and sphenoidal processes are separated from one another by a deep notch, which is converted into a foramen, the spheric-palatine, by articulation with the sphenoidal turbinated bone. Sometimes the two processes are united above, and form between them a complete foramen, or the notch is crossed by one or more spiculse of bone, so as to form two or more foramina. In the articulated skull, this foramen opens into the back part of the outer wall of the superior meatus, and transmits the spheno-palatine vessels and the superior nasal and naso-palatine nerves. Development.—From a single centre, which makes its appearance about the second month at the angle of junction of the two plates of the bone. From this point ossification spreads inwards to the horizontal plate, downwards into the tuberosity, and upwards into the vertical plate. In the foetus, the horizontal plate is much longer than the vertical ; and even after it is fully ossified, the whole bone is at first remarkable for its shortness.