GENEEAL ANATOMY 40 interruptions in its continuity at regular intervals, giving to the fibre the appearance of constriction at these points. These were first described by Eanvier, and are known as the nodes of Banvier (fig. 48). The portion of nerve-fibre between two nodes is called an internodal segment. Fig. 48.—A node of Eanvier of a medidlated nerve- fibre, viewed from above, magnified about 750 dia- meters. The medullary sheath is discontinuous at the node, whereas the axis-cylinder passes from one segment into the other. At the node the sheath (Klein and Noble of Schwann appears thickened. Smith.) Fig. 49.-—Magnified diameters. Fig. 50.—A small nervous branch from the sym- pathetic of a mammal. The neurilemma or primitive sheath is not interrupted at the nodes, but passes over them as a continuous mem- brane. Each internodal seg- ment contains an oval nucleus embedded in the medullary sheath, and occasionally more than one nucleus may be seen in the same internode. Medullated nerve-fibres, when examined, frequently present a beaded or varicose appearance : this is due to mani- pulation and pressure causing the oily matter to collect into drops, and in conse- quence of the extreme delicacy of the primitive sheath, even slight pressure will cause the transudation of the fatty matter, which collects as drops of oil outside the membrane. This is, of course, promoted by the action of ether (fig. 49). The neurilemma or primitive sheath (sometimes called the tubular membrane or sheath of Schwann) presents the appearance of a delicate, structureless membrane. Here and there beneath it, and situated in depressions in the white matter of Schwann, are nuclei sur- rounded by a small amount of protoplasm. The nuclei are oval and somewhat flat- tened, and bear a definite re- lation to the nodes of Ean- vier ; one nucleus generally lying in the centre of each node, though in some few instances two nuclei may be found in the same node. Non-medullated Fibres.— Most of the nerves of the sympathetic system, and some of the cerebro-spinal (see especially the description of the olfactory nerve), consist of another variety of nervous fibres, which are called the grey or gelatinous nerve-fibres —fibres of Bemak (fig. 50). These consist of a bundle of finely striated fibrillae en- closed in a sheath. Nuclei may be detected at intervals in each fibre, situated between the axis-cylinder and the neurilemma. In external appearance the gelatinous nerves are semi-transparent and grey or yellowish-grey. The individual fibres vary in size, generally averaging about half the size of the medullated fibres; but, on the one hand, the primitive fibrillar formed by the breaking up of the cerebro-spinal fibres, as above mentioned, are of hardly appreciable thick- ness ; while, on the other hand, some of the gelatinous fibres (especially those on the olfactory bulb) are said to be three or four times as thick as those of the cerebro-spinal nerves. Chemical Composition.—The different portions of the nervous system are com- . Nerve-tube of the common eel in water. The delicate line on its exterior indicates the tubular membrane. The dark double-edged inner one is the white matter of Schwann, slightly wrinkled, b. The same in ether. Several oil-globules have coalesced in the interior, and others have accumulated around the exterior of the tube. The white matter has in part disappeared. a. Two dark-bordered nerve-tubes among a number of Remak's fibres, b.