CLASSIFICATION OF JOINTS 291 Synarthrosis, or Immovable Joint. Surfaces separated by fib- rous membrane, without any in- tervening syno- vial cavity, and immovably con- nected with each other. As in joints of cranium and face (except lower jaw). Amphiarthrosis, Mixed Articula- tion. Sutura. ticulation Ar- by processes and ind entations interlocked to- gether. Sutura vera (true) articulate by indented bor- ders. Dentata, having tooth-like processes. As in interparietal suture. Serrata, having ser- rated edges like the teeth of a saw. As in interfrontal suture. Limbosa, having be- velled margins, and den- tated processes. As in fronto-parietal suture. Sutura notha (false) articulate by rough surfaces. Diarthrosis, Movable Joint. Squamosa, formed by thin bevelled margins, overlapping each other. As in squamo-parietal suture. Harmonia, formed by the apposition of con- tiguous rough surfaces. As in intermaxillary \ suture. Scliindylesis.—Articulation formed by the reception of a thin plate of one bone into a fissure of another. As in articulation of rostrum of sphenoid with vomer. GompJiosis.—Articulation formed by the insertion of a conical process into a socket. The teeth. Symphysis.—Surfaces connected by fibro-cartilage, not separated by synovial membrane, and having limited motion. As in joints between bodies of vertebrae. Syndosmosis.—Surfaces united by an interosseous ligament. As in the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. Ginglymus.—Hinge-joint; motion limited to two directions, forwards and backwards. Articular surfaces fitted together so as to permit of movement in one plane. As in the inter- phalangeal joints and the joint between the humerus and the ulna. Trochoides or Pivot-joint.—Articulation by a pivot process turning within a ring, or ring around a pivot. As in superior radio-ulnar articulation, and atlanto-axial joint. Condyloid.—Ovoid head received into elliptical cavity. Movements in every direction except axial rotation. As the wrist-joint. Beciprocal Beception (Saddle-joint).—Articular surfaces inversely convex in one direction and concave in the other. Movement in every direction except axial rotation. As in the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb. Enarthrosis.—Ball-and-socket joint; capable of motion in all directions. Articulations by a globular head received into a cup-like cavity. As in hip- and shoulder-joints. Arthrodia.—Gliding joint; articulations by plane surfaces, which glide upon each other. As in carpal and tarsal articu- lations. u 2