CRANIAL NERVES 748 tonsillar branches of the giosso-pharyngeal to form the plexus around the tonsil (circidus toJisiUaiis). The internal hranclies are distributed to the septum and outer wall of the nasal fossaB. They are the superior nasal (anterior) and the naso-palatine. The suijerior nasal hranclies {anterior), four or five in number, enter the back part of the nasal fossa by the spheno-palatine foramen. They supply the mucous membrane covering the superior and middle spongy bones, and that lining the posterior ethmoidal cells, a few being prolonged to the upper and back part of the septum. One branch is continued on to the inner surface of the anterior wall of the antrum, and there forms a communication with the anterior dental nerve. At the point of communication a sv/elling exists, denominated 'the ganglion of Bochdalek,' the nature of which seems to be, however, uncertain. The naso-ioalatine nerve {Cotunnius) also enters the nasal fossa through the spheno-palatine foramen, and passes inwards across the roof of the nose, below the orifice of the sphenoidal sinus, to rea.ch the septum ; it then runs obliquely downwards and forwards along the lower part of the septum, to the anterior palatine foramen, lying between the periosteum and mucous membrane. It descends to the roof of the mouth through the anterior palatine canal. The two nerves are here contained in separate and distinct canals, situated in the intermaxillary suture, and termed the foramina of Scarpa, the left nerve being usually anterior to the right one. In the mouth, they become united, supply the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth, and join with the anterior palatine nerve. The naso-palatine nerve occasionally furnishes a few small filaments to the mucous membrane of the septum. The jjosterior branches are, the pharyngeal (pterygo-palatine), and the upper posterior nasal branches. The pharyngeal nerve (pterygo-palatine) is a small branch arising from the back part of the ganglion, being generally blended with the Vidian nerve. It passes through the pterygo-palatine canal with the pterygo-palatine artery, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the pharynx, behind the Eustachian tube. The upper posterior nasal branches are a few twigs given off from the posterior part of the ganglion, which run backwards in the sheath of the Vidian nerve to the mucous membrane at the back part of the roof, septum, and superior meatus of the nose and that covering the end of the Eustachian tube. Inferior Maxillary Nerve (fig. 444) The Inferior Maxillary Nerve distributes branches to the teeth and gums of the lower jaw, the integument of the temple and external ear, the lower part of the face and lower lip, and the muscles of mastication : it also supplies the tongue with a large branch. It is the largest of the three divisions of the fifth, and is made up of two roots : a large or sensory root ^Droceeding from the inferior angle of the Gasserian ganglion ; and a small or motor root, which passes beneath the ganglion, and unites with the sensory root, just after its exit through the foramen ovale. Immediately beneath the base of the skull, this nerve divides into two trunks, anterior and posterior. Previous to its division, the primary trunk gives off from its inner side a recurrent (meningeal) branch, and the nerve to the Internal pterygoid muscle. The recurrent branch is given off directly after its exit from the foramen ovale. It passes backwards into the skull through the foramen spinosum with the middle meningeal artery. It divides into two branches, anterior and posterior, which accompany the main divisions of the artery and supply the dura mater. The anterior branch communicates with the meningeal branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The Internal Pterygoid Nerve, given off from the inferior maxillary, previous to its division, is intimately connected at its origin with the otic ganglion. It is a