THE LIVER 931 obstruction, and where, therefore, there is no necessity to open the bowel at once. The main reason for preferring this operation is that a spur-shaped process of the meso-colon can be formed which prevents any fsecal matter finding its way past the artificial anus, and becoming lodged on the diseased structures below. The sigmoid flexure being almost entirely surrounded by peritoneum, a coil can be drawn out of the wound and the greater part of its calibre removed, leaving the remainder attached to the meso-colon, which forms a spiu", much the same as in an artificial anus caused by sloughing of the gut after a strangulated hernia, and this prevents any faecal matter finding its way from the gut above the opening into that below. The operation is performed by making an incision two or three inches in length from a point one inch internal to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, parallel to Poupart's ligament. The various layers of abdominal muscles are cut through, and the peritoneum opened and sewn to the external skin. The sigmoid flexure is now sought for, and pulled out of the wound and fixed by passing a needle threaded with carbolised silk through the meso-colon close to the gut, and then through the abdominal wall. The intestine is now sewn to the skin all round, the sutures passing only through the serous and muscular coats. The wound is dressed, and on the second to the fourth day, according to the requirements of the case, the protruded coil of intestine is opened and removed with scissors. The Liver The Liver is a glandular organ of large size, intended mainly for the secretion of the bile, but effecting also important changes in certain constituents of the blood in their passage through the gland. It is situated in the right hypochondriac and epigastric regions, but in the child extends across the epigastrium into the left hypochondrium. It is the largest gland in the body, weighing from three to four pounds (from fifty to sixty ounces avoirdupois). It measures, in its transverse diameter, from ten to twelve inches; from six to seven in its antero-posterior; and is about three inches thick at the back part of the right lobe, which is the thickest part. Its upper or diaphragmatic surface is convex, directed upwards and forwards, smooth, covered by peritoneum. It is in relation with the under surface of the Diaphragm; and below, to a small extent, with the abdominal parietes. The surface is divided into two unequal lobes, the right and left, by a fold of peritoneum, the suspensory or hroad ligament. It presents on the left lobe a shallow depression, corresponding to the heart. Its under or visceral surface is concave, directed downwards and backwards, and is in relation with the stomach and duodenum, the hepatic flexure of the colon, and the right kidney and suprarenal capsule. The surface is divided by a longitudinal fissure into a right and left lobe. The posterior surface is rounded and broad over the right lobe, but narrow on the left. It is not covered by peritoneum, and is in contact with the Diaphragm and posterior wall of the abdomen, and is marked off from the upper surface by the line of reflection of the peritoneum from the under surface of the Diaphragm to the upper surface of the liver. On the right lobe, this surface, which is here broad, is marked off from the under surface of the liver by the line of reflection of peritoneum from the posterior portion of the Diaphragm on to the liver, which forms the posterior layer of the coronary ligament. In its centre this posterior surface is deeply notched for the vertebral column, and to the right of this it is indented for the inferior vena cava, which is partly embedded in its substance. Close to the right of the vein is a slight depression for the right suprarenal capsule. To the left of the vena cava is the narrow ridge bounding the lobus Spigelii behind, and to the left of this a groove indicating the position of the oesophageal orifice of the stomach. The anterior border is thin and sharp, and marked opposite the attachment of the longitudinal ligament by a deep notch, and opposite the cartilage of the ninth rib by a second notch for the fundus of the gall-bladder. In adult males this border usually corresponds with the margin of the ribs ; but in women and children it usually projects below the ribs. The right extremity of the liver is thick and rounded, whilst the left is thin and flattened. 302