SPINAL NERVES 784 of the axillary vein, and communicates with the intercosto-hnmeral nerve. It descends along the inner side of the brachial artery to the middle of the arm, where it pierces the deep fascia, and is distributed to the integument of the back part of the lower third of the arm, extending as far as the elbow, where some filaments are lost in the integument in front of the inner condyle, and others over the olecranon. It communicates with the posterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. In some cases the nerve of Wrisberg and intercosto-humeral are connected by two or three filaments, which form a plexus at the back part of the axilla. In other cases, the intercosto-humeral is of large size, and takes the place of the nerve of Wrisberg, receiving merely a filament of communication from the brachial plexus, which represents the latter nerve. In other cases, this filament is wanting, the place of the nerve of Wrisberg being supplied entirely from the intercosto- humeral. The Median Nerve (fig. 461) has received its name from the course it takes along the middle of the arm and forearm to the hand, lying between the ulnar and the musculo-spiral and radial nerves. It arises by two roots, one from the outer, and one from the inner cord of the brachial plexus; these embrace the lower part of the axillary artery, uniting either in front or on the outer side of that vessel. It receives filaments from the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical and the first dorsal. As it descends through the arm, it lies at first on the outer side of the brachial artery, crosses that vessel in the middle of its course, usually in front, but occasionally behind it, and lies on its inner side to the bend of the elbow, where it is placed beneath the bicipital fascia, and is separated from the elbow-joint by the Brachialis anticus. In the forearm it passes between the two heads of the Pronator radii teres, and descends beneath the Flexor sublimis, lying on the Flexor profundus, to within two inches above the annular ligament, where it becomes more superficial, lying between the tendons of the Flexor sublimis and Flexor carpi radialis, beneath, or rather to the ulnar side of, the tendon of the Palmaris longus, covered by the integument and fascia. It then passes beneath the annular ligament into the hand. In its course through the forearm it is accompanied by a small artery. Branches.—No branches are given ofi' from the median nerve in the arm. In the forearm its branches are, muscular, anterior interosseous, and palmar cutaneous, and, according to Riidinger and Macalister, two articular twigs to the elbow-joint. The muscular branches supply all the superficial muscles on the front of the forearm, except the Flexor carpi ulnaris. These branches are derived from the nerve near the elbow. The branch furnished to the Pronator radii teres often arises above the joint. The anterior interosseous supplies the deep muscles on the front of the forearm, except the inner half of the Flexor profundus digitorum. It accompanies the anterior interosseous artery along the interosseous membrane, in the interval between the Flexor longus pollicis and Flexor profundus digitorum muscles, both of which it supplies, and terminates below in the Pronator quadratus. The palmar cutaneous branch arises from the median nerve at the lower part of the forearm. It pierces the fascia above the annular ligament, and, descending over that ligament, divides into two branches : of which the otder supplies the skin over the ball of the thumb, and communicates with the anterior cutaneous branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve ; and the iniier supplies the integument of the palm of the hand, communicating with the cutaneous branch of the ulnar. In the palm of the hand, the median nerve is covered by the integument and palmar fascia, and crossed by the superficial palmar arch. It rests upon the tendons of the flexor muscles. In this situation it becomes enlarged, somewhat flattened, of a reddish colour, and divides into two branches. Of these, the external supplies a muscular branch to some of the muscles of the thumb, and digital branches to the thumb and index finger; the internal supplies digital