THE NASAL FOSS^ 831 they are (on each side) the Pyramidahs nasi, the Levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, the Dilatator naris, anterior and posterior, the Compressor nasi, the Com- pressor narimn minor, and the Depressor alse nasi. They have been described above (page 375). The mtegument covering the dorsum and sides of the nose is thin, and loosely connected with the subjacent parts ; but where it forms the tip, or lobe, and the alae of the nose, it is thicker and more firmly adherent. It is furnished with a large number of sebaceous follicles, the orifices of which are usually very distinct. The mucous memhrane, lining the interior of the nose, is continuous with the skin externally, and with that which lines the nasal fossee within. The arteries of the nose are the lateralis nasi from the facial, and the inferior artery of the septum from the superior coronary, which supply the aim and septum; the sides and dorsum being supplied from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and the infra-orbital. The veins of the nose terminate in the facial and ophthalmic. The nerves of the nose are branches from the facial, infra-orbital, and infra- trochlear, and a, filament from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. Nasal Fossae The nasal fossae are two irregular cavities situated in the middle of the face, and extending from before backwards. They open in front by the two anterior Fig. 485,—Transverse vertical section of the nasal fossae. (Henle.) sinus hone hone nares, and terminate in the pharynx, behind, by the posterior nares. The anterior nares are somewhat pear-shaped apertures, each measuring about one inch vertically and half an inch transversely at their widest part. The posterior nares are two oval openings, situated at the upper part of the anterior wall of the pharynx. They are smaller in the body than in the skeleton, because narrowed by the mucous membrane. Each opening measures an inch in the vertical, and half an inch in the transverse direction in a well-developed adult skull. The mucous membrane lining the nasal fossge is called the ])ituitary, from the nature of its secretion; or Schneiderian, from Schneider, the first anatomist who