974 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION is effected as follows:—the thyroid cartilage is fixed by the Thyro-hyoid innscles, then the Crico-thyroid muscles, when the}^ act, draw upwards the front of the cricoid cartilage and so depress the posterior portion, which carries with it the arytenoid cartilages, and thus elongate the vocal cords. The Tliyro-arytenoidei muscles, consisting of two parts having different attachments and different directions, are rather complicated as regards their action. Their main use is to draw the arytenoid cartilages forwards towards the thyroid, and thus shorten and relax the vocal cords. But, owing to the connection of the inner portion with the vocal cord, this part, if acting separately, is supposed to modif}' its elasticity and tension, and the outer portion, being inserted into the outer part of the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage, may rotate it inwards, and thus narrow the rima glottidis by bringing the two cords together. The Thyro-ejnglottidei dej)ress the epiglottis, and assist in compressing the sacculi laryngis. The Aryteno-epiglottideus superior constricts the superior aperture of the larynx, when it is drawn upwards, during deglutition, and the opening closed by the epiglottis. The Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior, together with some fibres of the Thyro- arytenoidei, compress the sacculus laryngis. The Mucous Membrane of the Larynx is continuous above with that lining the mouth and pharynx, and is prolonged through the trachea and bronchi into the lungs. It lines the posterior and upper part of the anterior surface of the epiglottis, to which it is closely adherent, and forms the aryteno-epiglottidean folds which encircle the superior aperture of the larynx. It lines the whole of the cavity of the larynx ; forms, by its reduplication, the chief part of the superior, or false, vocal cord ; and, from the ventricle, is continued into the sacculus laryngis. It is then reflected over the true vocal cords, where it is thin, and very intimately adherent ; covers the inner surface of the crico-thyroid membrane and cricoid cartilage ; and is ultimately continuous with the lining membrane of the trachea. It is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium below the superior vocal cord ; but above this point the cilia are found only in front, as high as the middle of the epiglottis. In the rest of its extent the epithelium is of the squamous variety. Glands.—The mucous membrane of the larynx is furnished with numerous muciparous glands, the orifices of which are found in nearly every part; they are very numerous upon the epiglottis, being lodged in little pits in its substance; they are also found in large numbers along the posterior margin of the aryteno- epiglottidean fold, in front of the arytenoid cartilages, where they are termed the arytenoid glands. They exist also in large numbers upon the inner surface of the sacculus laryngis. None are found on the vocal cords. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the larynx are the laryngeal branches derived from the superior and inferior thyroid. The veins accompany the arteries : those accompanying the superior laryngeal artery join the superior thyroid vein, which opens into the internal jugular vein ; while those accompanying the inferior laryngeal artery join the inferior thyroid vein which opens into the innominate vein. The lymphatics terminate in the deep cervical glands. The nerves are the superior laryngeal, and the inferior or recurrent laryngeal branches of the pneumo- gastric nerves, joined by filaments from the sympathetic. The superior laryngeal nerves supply the mucous membrane of the larynx and the Crico-thyroid muscles. The inferior laryngeal nerves supply the remaining muscles. The Arytenoid muscle is supplied by both nerves. The Teachea (fig. 573) The trachea, or windpipe, is a cartilaginous and membranous cylindrical tube, flattened posteriorly, wdiich extends from the lower part of the larynx, on a level with the sixth cervical vertebra, to opposite the fourth, or sometimes the fifth, dorsal, where it divides into the two bronchi, one for each lung. The trachea measures about four inches and a half in length ; its diameter, from side to side, is from three-quarters of an inch to an inch, being always greater in the male than in the female. Relations.—The anterior surface of the trachea is convex, and covered in the neck, from above downwards, by the isthmus of the thyroid gland, the inferior