SURFACE FORM 475 fibrous arch, for the passage of the radial artery from the dorsum to the pahn of the hand. The outer head arises from the upper half of the ulnar border of the first metacarpal bone ; the inner head, from almost the entire length of the radial border of the second metacarpal bone ; the tendon is inserted into the radial side of the index finger. The second and third dorsal interossei are inserted into the middle finger, the former into its radial, the latter into its ulnar side. The fourth is inserted into the ulnar side of the ring finger. The Palmar interossei, three in number, are smaller than the Dorsal, and placed upon the palmar surface of the metacarpal bones, rather than between them. They arise from the entire length of the metacarpal bone of one finger, and are inserted into the side of the base of the first phalanx and aponeurotic expansion of the common extensor tendon of the same finger. The first arises from the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of the index finger. The second arises from the radial side of the fourth metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of the ring finger. The tJiwd arises from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and is Fig. 317.—The Dorsal interossei of Fig. 318.—The Palmar interossei of left hand. left hand. inserted into the same side of the little finger. From this account it may be seen that each finger is provided with two Interossei muscles, with the exception of the little finger, in which the Abductor muscle takes the place of one of the pair. Nerves.—The two outer Lumbricales are supplied by the median nerve ; the rest of the muscles of this group by the ulnar. All the Interossei are supplied by the ulnar. Actions.—The Palmar interossei muscles adduct the fingers to an imaginary line drawn longitudinally through the centre of the middle finger; and the Dorsal interossei abduct the fingers from that line. In addition to this, the Interossei, in conjunction with the Lumbricales, flex the first phalanx at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, and extend the second and third phalanges in consequence of their insertion into the expansion of the extensor tendons. The Extensor communis digitorum is believed to act almost entirely on the first phalanges. Surface Form.—ThePectorcdis major largely influences surface form and conceals a considerable part of the thoracic wall in front. Its sternal origin presents a festooned border, which bounds and determines the width of the sternal farrow. Its clavicular origin