CEANIAL NERVES 744 from the branch of the third nerve to the Inferior oblique muscle, and is connected with the inferior angle of the ganglion. The third, the sympathetic root, is a slender filament from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. This is frequently blended with the long root, though it sometimes passes to the ganglion separately. According to Tiedemann, this ganglion receives a filament of communication from the spheno-palatine ganglion. Its branches of distrihutioji are the short ciliary nerves. These are delicate filaments, from six to ten in number, which arise from the fore part of the ganglion in two bundles, connected with its su^Derior and inferior angles ; the lower bundle "is the larger. They run forwards with the ciliary arteries in a wavy course, one set above and the other below the optic nerve, and are joined by the long ciliary nerves from the nasal. They pierce the sclerotic at the back part of the globe, pass forwards in delicate grooves on its inner surface, and are distributed to the ciliary muscle, iris, and cornea. Tiedemann has described one small branch as penetrating the optic nerve with the arteria centralis retinae. SuPEKioR Maxillary Neeve (fig. 444) The Superior Maxillary, or second division of the fifth, is a sensory nerve. It IS intermediate, both in position and size, between the ophthalmic and inferior maxillary. It commences at the middle of the Gasserian ganglion as a flattened plexiform band, and passes forwards through the foramen rotundum, where it becomes more cylindrical in form, and firmer in texture. It then crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa, enters the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, traverses the infra-orbital canal in the floor of the orbit, and appears upon the face at the infra-orbital foramen.* At its termination, the nerve lies beneath the Levator labii superioris muscle, and divides into a leash of branches, which spread out upon the side of the nose, the lower eyelid, and upper lip, joining with filaments of the facial nerve. Branches of distrihiition.—The branches of this nerve maybe divided into four groups: I. Those given off in the cranium. 2. Those given off in the spheno- maxillary fossa. 3. Those in the infra-orbital canal. 4. Those on the face. In the cranium . . . Meningeal. I Orbital or temporo-malar. Spheno-maxillary fossa - Spheno-palatine. ( Posterior superior dental. -r „ , , , ( Middle superior dental. Inira-orbital canal . * . • • j j. i [ Anterior superior dental. I Palpebral. On the face ... J Nasal. ( Labial. The mening^eal branch is given off directly after its origin from the Gasserian ganglion, and supplies the dura mater, communicating with a meningeal branch from the inferior maxillary nerve. The orbital or temporo-malar branch arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, enters the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides at the back of that cavity into two branches, temporal and malar. The temijoral branch runs in a groove along the outer wall of the orbit (in the malar bone), receives a branch of communication from the lachrymal, and, passing through a foramen in the malar bone, enters the temporal fossa. It ascends between the bone and substance of the Temporal muscle, pierces this muscle and the temporal fascia about an inch above the zygoma, and is distributed to the integument covering the temple and side of the forehead, communicating with the facial and auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. As After it enters the infra-orbital canal, the nerve is frequently called the infra- orbital.