ARTERIES 620 Position of contained parts.—The internal popliteal nerve descends in the middle line of the space, lying superficial and crossing the artery from without inwards. The external popliteal nerve descends on the outer side of the space, lying close to the tendon of the Biceps muscle. More deeply at the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, the vein lying superficial and a little external to the artery, to which it is closely united by dense areolar tissue; sometimes the vein is placed on the inner instead of the outer side of the artery; or the vein may be double, the artery lying between the two venae comites, which are usually connected by short transverse branches. More deeply, and, at its upper part, close to the surface of the bone, is the popliteal artery, and passing oft' from it at right angles are its articular branches. The articular branch from the obturator nerve descends upon the popliteal artery to supply the knee ; and occasionally there is found deep in the space an articular filament from the great sciatic nerve. The popliteal lymphatic glands, four or five in number, are found surrounding the artery : one usually lies superficial to the vessel; another is situated between it and the bone ; and the rest are placed on either side of it. The Popliteal Artery, in its course downwards from the aperture in the Adductor magnus to the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, rests first on the inner surface of the femur, and is then separated by a little fat from the hollowed popliteal surface of the bone; in the middle of its course, it rests on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint ; and below, on the fascia covering the Popliteus muscle. Super- ficially, it is covered above by the Semimembranosus ; in the middle of its course, by a quantity of fat, which separates it from the deep fascia and integument; and below, it is overlapped by the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, and Soleus muscles, the popliteal vein, and the internal popliteal nerve. The popliteal vein, which is intimately attached to the artery, lies superficial and external to it, until near the termination of the artery, when the vein crosses it and lies to its inner side. The popliteal nerve is still more superficial and external above, but below the joint it crosses the artery and lies on its inner side. Laterally, the artery is bounded by the muscles which are situated on either side of the popHteal space. Plan of Relations of Popliteal Aeteey I71 front. Femur. Ligamentum posticum. Popliteus. Inner side. Semimembranosus. Internal condyle. Gastrocnemius (inner head). Outer side. Biceps. Outer condyle. Gastrocnemius (outer head). Plantaris. Behind. Semimembranosus. Fascia. Popliteal vein. Internal popliteal nerve. Gastrocnemius. Plantaris. Soleus. Peculiarities in x^oint of Division.—Occasionally the popliteal artery divides pre- maturely into its terminal branches ; this uiiusual division occurs most frequently opposite the knee-joint. Unusual Branches.—The artery sometimes divides into the anterior tibial and peroneal, the_posterior tibial being wanting, or very small. Occasionally the popliteal is found to divide into three branches, the anterior and posterior tibial, and peroneal. _ Surface Marhing.—The course of the upper part of the popliteal artery is indicated by a line drawn from the outer border of the Semimembranosus muscle at the junction of the