3i8 ARTICULATIONS clavicle. It is attached, below, to the upper surface of the coracoid process ; above, to the oblique line on the under surface of the clavicle. Its anterior border is free ; its posterior border is joined with the conoid ligament: the two forming by their junction a projecting angle. The Conoid Ligament, the posterior and internal fasciculus, is a dense band of fibres, conical in form, the base being turned upwards, the summit downwards. It is attached by its apex to a rough impression at the base of the coracoid process, internal to the preceding ; above, by its expanded base, to the conoid tubercle on Fig. 243.—The left shoulder-joint, scapulo-clavicular articulations, and proper ligaments of scapula. the under surface of the clavicle, and to a line proceeding internally from it for half an inch. These ligaments are in relation, in front, with the Subclavius and Deltoid; behind, with the Trapezius. They serve to limit rotation of the scapula ; the Trapezoid limiting rotation forwards, and the Conoid backwards. Actions.—The movements of this articulation are of two kinds, i. A gliding motion of the articular end of the clavicle on the acromion. 2. Rotation of the scapula forwards and backwards upon the clavicle, the extent of this rotation being- limited by the two portions of the coraco-clavicular ligament. The acromio-clavicular joint has important functions in the movements of the upper extremity. It has been well pointed out by Sir George Humphry, that if there had been no joint between the clavicle and scapula, the circular movement of the scapula on the ribs (as in throwing both shoulders backward or forward) would have been attended with a greater alteration in the direction of the shoulder than is consistent with the free use of the arm in such positions, and it would have been impossible to give a blow straight forward with the full force of the arm, that is to say, with the combined force of the scapula, arm, and forearm. ' This joint,' as he happily says, ' is so adjusted as to enable either bone to turn in a hinge-like