OCCIPITAL BONE 137 surface, and is perforated by one or more large vascular foramina. From this eminence, the superior division of the crucial ridge runs upwards to the superior angle of the bone; it presents a deep groove for the superior longitudinal sinus, the margins of which give attachment to the falx cerebri. The inferior division, the internal occipital crest, runs to the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, on the edge of which it becomes gradually lost; this ridge, which is bifurcated below, serves for the attachment of the falx cerebelli. It is usually marked by a single groove, which commences at the back part of the foramen magnum and lodges the occipital sinus. Occasionally the groove is double where two sinuses exist. The transverse grooves pass outwards to the lateral angles ; they are deeply channelled, for the lodgment of the lateral sinuses, their prominent margins affording attachment to the tentorium cerebelli.* At the point of meeting of these grooves is a depression, the torcular HeTophili,^ placed a little to one or the other side of the internal occipital protuberance. More anteriorly is the foramen magnum, and on each side of it, but nearer its anterior than its posterior part, the internal openings of the anterior condyloid foramina ; the internal openings of the posterior condyloid foramina are a little external and posterior to them, protected by a small arch of bone. At this part of the internal surface there is a very deep groove, in which the posterior condyloid foramen, when it exists, has its termina- tion. This groove is continuous, in the complete skull, with the transverse groove on the posterior part of the bone, and lodges the end of the same sinus, the lateral. In front of the foramen magnum is the basilar process, presenting a shallow depression, the basilar groove, which slopes from behind, upwards and forwards, and supports the medulla oblongata and part of the pons Varolii, and on each side of the basilar process is a narrow channel, which, when united with a similar channel on the petrous portion of the temporal bone, forms a groove, w^hich lodges the inferior petrosal sinus. Angles.—The superior angle is received into the interval between the posterior superior angles of the two parietal bones: it corresponds with that part of the skull in the foetus which is called the posterior fontanelle. The inferior angle is trepresented by the square-shaped surface of the basilar process. At an early Iperiod of life, a layer of cartilag'e separates this part of the bone from the sphenoid; but in the adult, the union between them is osseous. The lateral angles corre- spond to the outer ends of the transverse grooves, and are received into the interval between the posterior inferior angles of the parietal and the mastoid portion of the temporal. I Borders.—The superior border extends on each side from the superior to the lateral angle, is deeply serrated for articulation with the parietal bone, and forms, by this union, the lambdoid suture. The inferior border extends from the lateral to |the inferior angle ; its upper half is rough, and articulates with the mastoid portion of the temporal, forming the masto-occipital suture ; the inferior half articulates with the petrous portion of the temporal, forming the petro-occipital suture ; these two portions are separated from one another by the jugular process. In front of this process is a deep notch, which, with a similar one on the petrous portion of the temporal, forms the foramen lacerum posterius or jugular forameii. This aotch is occasionally subdivided into two parts by a small process of bone, and j.t generally presents an aperture at its upper part, the internal opening of the posterior condyloid foramen. Structure.—The occipital bone consists of two compact laminae, called the mter and inner tables, having between them the diploic tissue ; this bone is espe- cially thick at the ridges, protuberances, condyles, and internal part of the basilar j * Usually one of the transverse grooves is deeper and broader than the other; occasionally, both grooves are of equal depth and breadth, or both equally indistinct, irhe broader of the two transverse grooves is nearly always continuous with the vertical groove for the superior longitudinal sinus. ' t The columns of blood coming in different directions were supposed to be pressed "Ogether at this point {torcular, a wine-press).