728 NEEVOUS SYSTEM cates with the fourth ventricle ; it covers the inner wall of each optic thalamus, forming the middle or grey commissure of the third ventricle; it also lines the floor of the third ventricle; it covers behind the upper surface of the tegmentum of the crus, and in front it approaches the surface of the brain, forming the posterior perforated space and the lamina cinerea. It forms also the tuber cinereum and the infundibulum, and in the lower vertebrata, especially fishes, the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. In the higher vertebrates this lobe does not present any nervous structure, being encroached upon and obliterated by an ingrowth of connective tissue and vessels. The grey matter surrounding the Sylvian aqueduct, which has been before mentioned as the central grey matter of the corpora quadrigemina, presents some features requiring especial mention. It forms a tolerably thick layer surrounding the canal, but is thicker on the lower wall; that is, below the canal, than above. The cells, which are multipolar, are here collected into groups, and form nuclei for the origin of the third and fourth cranial nerves. The nucleus for the third and fourth consists of a column of cells of large size on either side of, and close to, the median line. In addition to these cells there are found at the periphery of the zone of grey matter surrounding the aqueduct, some other, and larger, cells: sometimes single, sometimes grouped in twos or threes, or even more. They are globular and lie in the midst of well-marked nerve-fibres, with which their processes appear to be continuous. The Cerebellum The Cerebellum, or little brain, is that portion of the encephalon which is contained in the inferior occipital fossae. It is situated beneath the occipital lobes of the cerebrum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. In form, the cerebellum is oblong, and flattened from above downwards, its great diameter being from side to side. It measures from three and a half to four inches trans- versely, and from two to two and a half inches from before backwards, being about two inches thick in the centre, and about six lines at the circumference, which is the thinnest part. It consists of grey and white matter : the former, darker than that of the cerebrum, occupies the surface ; the latter, the interior. The surface of the cerebellum is not convoluted like the cerebrum, but traversed by numerous curved furrows or sulci, which vary in depth at different parts, and separate the laminae of Avhich its exterior is composed. Weig^ht of the Cerebellum.—Its average weight in the male is 5 ozs. 4 drs. It attains its maximum weight between the twenty-fifth and fortieth year ; its increase in weight after the fourteenth year being relatively greater in the female than-in the male. The proportion between the cerebellum and cerebrum is, in the male, as I to 8^ ; and in the female, as i to 8}. In the infant, the cerebellum is propor- tionately much smaller than in the adult, the relation between it and the cerebrum being, according to Chaussier, between i to 13, and i to 26 ; by Cruveilhier the proportion was found to be i to 20. Lobes of the Cerebellum.—The cerebellum is divided into an upper and a lower portion by the great horizontal fissure, which commences in front at the pons, and passes horizontally round the free margin of the hemisphere, to the middle line behind. From this primary fissure numerous secondary fissures proceed, which separate the cerebellum into lobes. Its upper surface (fig. 433) is somewhat elevated in the median line, and sloped towards its circumference; it consists of two lateral hemispheres, connected together by an elevated median portion or lobe, the superior vermiform process. The median lobe is the fundamental part, and in some animals, as fishes and reptiles, the only part which exists ; the hemispheres being additions, and attaining their maximum size in man. The hemispheres are separated, in front, by a deep notch, the incisura cerebelli anterior, which encircles the posterior part of the corpora quadrigemina; they are also separated by a similar notch behind,