THE PERITONEUM is again reflected back to the spine, to pass down in front of the aorta to form the mesentery, in a similar manner to the lower layer of the transverse meso-colon in the former description. Thus the transverse colon is invested by a distinct fold of peritoneum, prolonged forwards from the spine to smTound it, in a very similar manner to the way in which the small intestines are surrounded. In the adult, however, as a rule, this arrangement disappears. Probably adhesion of the layers of which the fcetal duplication is composed takes place, and then absorption, and thus the arrangement is brought about which has been described above as most frequently seen in the adult subject. It may be that the foetal duplicature is ' drawn or pushed forwards from its place in the progress of visceral development, and thus effaced.' * Viscera covered by 'peritoneum.—The viscera thus shown to be almost entirely invested by peritoneum are, the liver, stomach, spleen, first portion of the duodenum, the jejunum and ileum, the transverse colon, the caecum, sigmoid flexure, upper half of the rectum, the uterus, and ovaries. Viscera partially covered by ijeritoneum.—The viscera only partially invested by peritoneum are, the descending and transverse portions of the duodenum, the ascending and descending colon, the middle portion of the rectum, and the upper part of the vagina and posterior wall of the bladder. The kidneys, suprarenal capsules, and pancreas are covered by the membrane without receiving any special investment from it. Viscera micovered by peritoneum.— The lower end of the rectum, the neck, base, and anterior surface of the bladder, the whole of the front, and the lower part of the posterior wall of the vagina, have no peritoneal covering. Numerous folds are formed by the peritoneum, extending between the various organs. These serve to hold them in position, and, at the same time, enclose the vessels and nerves proceeding to each part. Some of the folds are called ligavients, from their serving to support the organs in position. Others, which connect certain parts of the intestine with the abdominal wall, constitute the mesenteries ; and lastly, those which proceed from the stomach to certain viscera in its neighbourhood are called OJiienta. The Ligaments, formed by folds of the peritoneum, include those of the liver, spleen, bladder, and uterus. They will be found described with their respective organs. The Omenta are, the lesser omentum, the great omentum, and the gastro-splenic omentum. The lesser omentum (g astro-hepatic) is the duplicature which extends between the transverse fissure of the liver and the lesser curvature of the stomach. It is extremely thin, and consists of two layers of peritoneum. At the left border its two layers pass on to the end of the oesophagus; but at the right border, where it is free, they are continuous, and form a free rounded margin, which contains between its layers the hepatic artery, the common bile-duct, the portal vein, lymphatics, and the hepatic plexus of nerves—all these structures being enclosed in loose areolar tissue, called Glisson's capsule. Between the layers where they are attached to the stomach lie the gastric artery and the pyloric branch of the hepatic, anastomosing with it. The great omentum (gastro-colic) is the largest peritoneal fold. It consists of four layers of peritoneum, two of which descend from the stomach, one from its anterior, the other from its posterior surface, and, uniting at its lower border, descend in front of the small intestines, as low down as the pelvis; they then turn upon themselves, and ascend again as far as the transverse colon, where they separate and enclose that part of the intestine. These separate layers may be easily demonstrated in the young subject, but in the adult they are more or less inseparably blended. The left border of the great omentum is continuous with the gastro-splenic omentum; its right border extends as far only as the duodenum. The great omentum is usually thin, presents a cribriform appearance, and always * Quain's Anatomy, vol. ii. p. 485, 8th ed.