HIP-JOINT 339 below, forms two bands, of which one passes downwards to be inserted into the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line ; the other passes downwards and outwards to be inserted into the upper part of the same line and adjacent part of the neck of the femur. Between the two bands is a thinner part of the capsule. Sometimes there is no division, but the ligament spreads out into a flat, triangular band, which is attached below into the whole length of the anterior intertrochanteric line. This ligament is frequently called the Y-shaped ligament of Bigelow. The Ligamentum Teres is a triangular band implanted by its apex into the depression a little behind and below the centre of the head of the femur, and by its broad base into the margins of the cotyloid notch, becoming blended with the transverse ligament. It is formed of connective tissue, surrounded by a tubular sheath of synovial membrane. Sometimes only the synovial fold exists, or the ligament may be altogether absent. The ligament is made tense when the hip is semiflexed, and the limb then adducted and rotated outwards ; it is, on the other Fig. 254.—Hip-jomt, showing the ilio- Fig. 255.—Vertical section through femoral ligament. (After Bigelow.) hip-joint. (Henle.) V hand, relaxed when the limb is abducted. It has, however, but little influence as a ligament, though it may to a certain extent limit movement, and would appear to be merely a modification of the folds which in other joints fringe the margins of reflection of synovial membranes (see page 288). The Cotyloid Ligament is a fibro-cartilaginous rim attached to the margin of the acetabulum, the cavity of which it deepens ; at the same time it protects the edges of the bone, and fills up the inequalities on its surface. It bridges over the notch as the transverse ligament, and thus forms a complete circle, which closely surrounds the head of the femur, and assists in holding it in its place, acting as a sort of valve. It is prismoid in form, its base being attached to the margin of the acetabulum, and its opposite edge being free and sharp ; whilst its two surfaces are invested by synovial membrane, the external one being in contact with the capsular ligament, the internal one being inclined inwards so as to narrow the acetabulum, and embrace the cartilaginous surface of the head of the femur. It is much thicker above and behind than below and in front, and consists of close z 2