679 SPINAL CORD Structure of the Cord.—If a transverse section of the spinal cord be made, it will be seen to consist of white and grey nervous substance. The white matter is situated externally, and constitutes the greater part. The grey substance occupies the centre, and is so arranged as to present on the surface of the section two crescentic masses, placed one in each lateral half of the cord, united together by a transverse band of grey matter, the grey commissure. Each crescentic mass has an anterior and posterior horn. The posterior horn is long and narrow, and approaches the surface of the posterolateral fissure, near which it presents a slight enlargement, the cayut cornu : from this it tapers, to form the ai^ex cornu, which at the surface of the cord becomes continuous with the fibres of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The anterior horn is short and thick, and does not quite reach the surface, but extends towards the point of attachment of the anterior roots of the nerves. Its margin presents a dentate or stellate appearance. Owing to the pro- jections towards the surface of the anterior and posterior horns of the grey matter, each half of the cord is divided, more or less completely, into three columns, anterior, middle, and posterior : the anterior and middle being joined to form the antero-lateral column, as the anterior horn does not quite reach the surface. Fig. 403.—Transverse sections of the cord. Opposite middle of cervical Opposite middle of dorsal region. Opposite lumbar region. Fig. 404.—From a transverse section through the spinal cord of a calf. Magnified about 180 diameters, showing part of the central canal and the tissue immediately around it, viz. the central grey nucleus. (Klein and Noble Smith.) The canal is lined with epithelium, composed of cili- ated, more or less conical, cells ; in most instances a filamentous process passes from the cell,into the tissue underneath. This tissue contains, in a hya- line matrix, a network of fibrils ; most of these run horizontally, others have a longitudinal course, and appear therefore here cut transversely, i.e. as small dots. The nuclei correspond to the cells of the neuroglia, the cell-substance not being shown. Both the nuclei of the neuroglia cells and those of the epithelium contain three or more large disc-shaped particles. The commissure of the spinal cord is composed of white and grey fibres, hence called the white and grey commissures. The white commissure is formed of fibres, which pass horizontally between the grey matter of the anterior horn of one side and the anterior white column of the opposite side. The grey commissure, which connects the two crescentic masses of grey matter, is separated from the bottom of the anterior median fissure by the anterior white commissure. It consists of transverse fibres, with a considerable quantity of neuroglia between them. The fibres when they reach the lateral crescents diverge : some pass backwards to the posterior roots; others spread out, at various angles, into the cervix cornu. Running through the grey commissure of the whole length of the cord is a minute canal, which is barely visible to the naked eye in the human cord, but is proportionally larger in some of the lower vertebrata. It is called the central canal, and opens above into the fourth ventricle, and terminates below in a some- what dilated extremity. It is lined in the foetus by columnar ciliated epithelium, but in the adult the cilia have disappeared, and the canal is filled with their