69 FERTILISATION OF OVUM an inch in diameter. It is a cell consisting externally of a transparent envelope, the zoim pellucida or vitelline membrane. Within this, and in close contact with it, is the yolk or vitellus ; embedded in the substance of the yoke is a small vesicular body, the germinal vesicle (vesicle of Purkinje), the nucleus of the cell ; and this contains as its nucleolus a small spot, the macula germinativa, or germinal spot of Wagner. The zona pellucida, or vitelline membrane, is a thick, colourless, transparent membrane, which appears under the microscope as a radially striated membrane, bounded externally and internally by a dark outline. The stria3 are believed to be minute pores, and are regarded as the channels by which nutritive particles are admitted into the interior of the ovum and possibly the way by which the spermatozoa gain access into the interior of the ovum, after the rupture of the Graafian follicle. The presence of these striae has given to the zona pellucida the name of zona radiata, or striated membrane of the ovum. The zona pellucida corresponds to the chorion of the impregnated ovum. The yolk consists of granular protoplasm, i.e. granules or globules of various sizes, embedded in a finely reticulated matrix. The smaller granules resemble pigment; the larger granules, which are in the greatest number at the periphery of the yolk, resemble fat-globules. In the human ovum the number of granules is comparatively small. Before and immediately after fertilisation it shows dis- tinct movements of contraction and expansion. The germinal vesicle consists of a fine, transparent, structureless membrane containing a clear matrix, in which are occasionally found a few granules. It is about -j^-Q of an inch in diameter, and in immature ova lies nearly in the centre of the yolk; but as the ovum becomes developed it approaches the surface, and enlarges much less rapidly than the yolk. The germinal spot occupies that part of the periphery of the germinal vesicle which is nearest to the periphery of the yolk. It is opaque, of a yellow colour, and finely granular in structure, measuring from -^-^-^ to 2-£-oo of inch. The phenomena attending the discharge of the ova from the Graafian vesicles, since they belong as much or more to the ordinary function of the ovary than to the general subject of the growth of the body, are described with the anatomy of the ovaries on a subsequent page. Either before its escape from the Graafian follicle or immediately after, the ovum undergoes a peculiar change, which results in the formation of one or more peculiar bodies, the polar globules of Robin, the origin of which has not hitherto been known; and also with the formation of another body, which appears to take a remarkable part in fecundation, and is named the 'female pronucleus.' The manner in which these bodies are developed from the germinal vesicle is briefly as follows : usually before the rupture of the Graafian follicle, but after the ovum has become mature or ripe, a portion of the germinal vesicle is protruded outside the yoke, but still remains within the vitelline membrane; this forms a small globular mass and constitutes the first polar globule. After a time, generally not till the ovum has entered the tube, a second protrusion of a portion of the germinal vesicle takes place, and forms a second polar globule. We have thus about two-thirds of the germinal vesicle extruded from the yolk and about one-third remaining behind, and at the ejection of each of these bodies a visible shrinking of the yolk takes place. The portion of the germinal vesicle which remains behind recedes from the surface towards the centre of the yolk and assumes a spherical form, and is now termed the ' female pronucleus.' All these changes, it must be understood, occur at each expulsion of an ovum, and are quite independent of fecundation. The first changes in the ovum which take place at the time of conception appear to be as follows : One or more spermatozoa penetrate the ovum, and come into contact with the yolk, and with the portion of the germinal vesicle remaining in the yolk. It seems as if this normally occurs in the Fallopian tube,* but it is * Many physiologists, as Bischoff and Dr. M. Barry, taught that the ovum is fecund- ated in the ovary, but the reasoning of Dr. Allen Thomson appears very cogent in proving