MUSCLES AND FASCIiE 498 surface of the muscle, and receives the fibres of the short head : this aponeurosis becomes gradually contracted into a tendon, which is inserted into the outer side of the head of the fibula, and by a small slip into the lateral surface of the external tuberosity of the tibia. At its insertion the tendon divides into two portions, which embrace the long external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, a strong prolongation being sent forwards to the outer tuberosity of the tibia, which gives off an expansion to the fascia of the leg. The tendon of this muscle forms the outer hamstring. Relations.—By its sui)erfi,cial surface, with the Gluteus maximus above, with the fascia lata and integument in the rest of its extent. By its deeiJ surface, with the Semimembranosus, Adductor magnus, and Vastus externus, the great sciatic nerve, and, near its insertion, with the external head of the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, the superior external articular artery, and the external popliteal nerve. The Semitendinosiis, remarkable for the great length of its tendon, is situated at the posterior and inner aspect of the thigh. It arises from the lower and inner facet on the tuberosity of the ischium, by a tendon common to it and the long head of the Biceps ; it also arises from an aponeurosis which connects the adjacent surfaces of the two muscles to the extent of about three inches after their origin. It forms a fusiform muscle, which, passing downwards and inwards, terminates a little below the middle of the thigh in a long round tendon which lies along the inner side of the popliteal space, then curves around the inner tuberosity of the tibia, and is inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of that bone, nearly as far forwards as its anterior border. This tendon is surrounded by the tendon of the Sartorius, and lies below that of the Gracilis, to which it is united. A tendinous intersection is usually observed about the middle of the muscle. Relations.—By its sui)erficial surface, with the Gluteus maximus and fascia lata. By its deei) surface, with the Semimembranosus, Adductor magnus, inner head of the Gastrocnemius, and internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The Semimembranosus, so called from the membranous expansion on its anterior and posterior surfaces, is situated at the back part and inner side of the thigh. It arises by a thick tendon from the upper and outer facet on the back part of the tuberosity of the ischium, above and to the outer side of the Biceps and Semitendinosus, and is inserted into the groove on the inner and back part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, beneath the internal lateral ligament. The tendon of the muscle at its origin expands into an aponeurosis, which covers the upper part of its anterior surface: from this aponeurosis muscular fibres arise, and converge to another aponeurosis which covers the lower part of its posterior surface and contracts into the tendon of insertion. The tendon of the muscle at its insertion gives oft' two fibrous expansions; one of these, of considerable size, passes upAvards and outwards to be inserted into the back part of the outer condyle of the femur, forming part of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The second is continued downwards to the fascia which covers the Popliteus muscle. The tendon also sends a few fibres to join the internal lateral ligament of the joint. The tendons of the two preceding muscles, with that of the Gracilis, form the inner hamstring. Relations.—By its sui^erficial surface, with the Semitendinosus, Biceps, and fascia lata. By its deey surface, with the popliteal vessels. Adductor magnus, and inner head of the Gastrocnemius, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa. By its inner border, with the Gracilis. By its outer border, with the great sciatic nerve, and its internal popliteal branch. Nerves.—The muscles of this region are supplied by the great sciatic nerve. Actions.—The hamstring muscles flex the leg upon the thigh. When the knee is semi-fiexed, the Biceps, in consequence of its oblique direction downwards and outwards, rotates the leg slightly outwards; and the Semitendinosus, and to a slight extent the Semimembranosus, rotate the leg inwards, assisting the Popliteus.