GENEKAL ANATOMY 14 albuminous semi-fluid cement-substance (fig. 14). In ligaments and tendons these bundles run parallel with each other ; in membranes they intersect one another in different places. The bundles have a tendency to split up longitudinally or send off slips to join other bundles and receive others in return. The cells occurring Fig. 14.—Connective tissue. (Klein and Noble Smith.) a. Tlie white fibrous element—a layer of more or less sliarply-outlined, parallel, wavy bundles of con- nective-tissue fibrils. On the surface of this layer is &, a network of fine elastic fibres. Fig. 15.—Tendon of mouse's tail, stained with logwood, showing chains of cells between the tendon-bundles. (From Quain's ' Anatomy.' E. A. Schafer.) in white fibrous tissue are often called ' tendon cells.' They are situated on the surface of groups of bundles and are quadrangular in shape, arranged in rows in single file, each cell being separated from its neighbours by a narrow line of cement- substance. The nucleus is generally situated at one end of the cell, the nucleus of the adjoining cell being in close proximity to it (fig. 15). Upon the addition of acetic acid to white fibrous tissue it swells up into a glassy-looking indistinguish- able mass. When boiled in water it is converted almost completely into gelatine. Yellow elastic tissue.—In certain parts of the body a tissue is found which when viewed in mass is of a yellowish colour, and is possessed of great elasticity ; so that it is capable of considerable extension, and when the extending force is withdrawn returns at once to its original condition. This is yellow elastic tissue, in which the elastic fibres greatly preponderate, to the almost complete exclusion of the white fibrous element. It is found in this condition in the ligamenta subflava, in the vocal cords, in the longitudinal coat of the trachea and bronchi, in the inner coats of the blood-vessels, especially the larger arteries, and to a very considerable extent in the thyro-hyoid, crico-thyroid, and stylo-hyoid ligaments. It is also found in the ligamentum nuchae of the lower animals. When viewed under the microscope (fig. 16) it is seen to consist of an aggregation of curling fibres, with a well-defined outline. They are considerably larger in size than the fibrillffi of the white fibrous element, and vary much, being from the 2^-4-07) 0 to the toVtt of an inch in diameter. The fibres form bold and wide curves, branch and freely anastomose with each other. They are homogeneous in appearance, and have a tendency to curl up, especially at their broken ends. In some parts where the fibres are broad and large and the network close, the tissue presents the appearance of a membrane, with gaps or perforations corresponding to the inter- vening space. This is to be found in the inner coat of the arteries, and to it the name of fenestrated membrane has been given by Henle. The yellow elastic fibres remain unaltered by acetic acid.