THE SKELETON fracture of the bones of the head a very uncommon event in infants and quite young children; as age advances, and the bones become joined, fracture is more common, though still less liable to occur than in the adult. Fractures of the vault may, and gene- rally do, involve the whole thickness of the bone ; but sometimes one table may be fractured without any corresponding injury to the other. Thus, the outer table of the skull may be splintered and driven into the diploe, or in the frontal or mastoid regions into the frontal or mastoid cells, without any injury to the internal table. And on the other hand the internal table has been fractured, and portions of it depressed and driven inwards without an}- fracture of the outer table. As a rule, in fractures of the skull, the inner table is more splintered and comminuted than the outer, and this is due to several causes. It is thinner and more brittle; the force of the violence as it passes inwards becomes broken up, and is more diffused by the time it reaches the inner table ; the bone being in the form of an arch bends as a whole and spreads out, and thus presses the particles together on the convex surface of the arch, i.e. the outer table, and forces them asunder on the concave surface or inner table; and, lastly, there is nothing firm under the inner table to support it and oppose the force. Fractures of the vault may be simple fissures, or starred and comminuted fractures, and these may be de})ressed or elevated. These latter cases of fracture with elevation of the fractured portion are uncommon, and can only be produced by direct wound. In comminuted fracture, a por- tion of the skull is broken into several pieces, the lines of fracture radiating from a centre where the chief impact of the blow was felt; if depressed, a fissure circumscribes the radiating lines, enclosing a portion of skull. If this area is circular it is termed a ' pond ' fracture, and would in all probability have been caused by a round instrument, as a life preserver or hannner ; if elliptical in shape it is termed a 'gutter fracture,' and would owe its shape to the instrument which had produced it, as a poker. Fractures of the base are most frequently produced by the extension of a fissure from the vault, as in falls on the head, where the fissure starts from the part of the vault which first struck the ground. Sometimes, however, they are caused by direct violence, when foreign bodies have been forced through the thin roof of the orbit, through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid from being thrust up the nose, or through the roof of the pharynx. Other cases of fracture of the base occur from indirect violence, as in fracture of the occipital bone from impaction of the spinal column against its condyles in falls on the buttocks, knees, or feet, or in cases where the glenoid cavity has been fi-actured by the violent impact of the condyle of the lower jaw against it from blows on the chin. The most common place for fracture of the base to occur is through the middle fossa, and here the fissure usually takes a fairly definite course. Starting from the point struck, which is generally somewhere in the neighbourhood of the parietal eminence, it runs downwards through the parietal and squamous portion of the temporal bone and across the petrous portion of this bone, frequently traversing and implicating the internal auditory meatus, to the middle lacerated foramen. From this it may j)ass across the body of the sj)henoid, through the pituitary fossa to the middle lacerated foramen of the other side, and may indeed travel round the whole cranium, so as to completely separate the anterior from the posterior part. The com^se of the fracture should be borne in mind, as it explains the symptoms to which fracture in this region may give rise : thus, if the fissure pass across the internal auditory meatus, injury to the facial and auditory nerves may result, with consequent facial paralysis and deafness ; or the tubular pro- longation of the arachnoid around these nerN es in the meatus may be torn and thus permit of the escape of the cerebro-spinal fiuid should there be a connnunication between the internal ear and the tympanum and the membrana tympani be ruptured, as is frequently the case : again, if the fissure passes across the pituitary fossa and the muco- periosteum covering the imder surface of the body of the sphenoid is torn, blood will find its way into the pharynx and be swallowed, and after a time vomiting of blood will result. Fractures of the anterior fossa, involving the bones forming the roof of the orbit and nasal fossa, are generally the results of blows on the forehead ; but fracture of the cribriform ])late of the ethmoid may be a complication of fracture of the nasal bone. When the fracture implicates the roof of the orbit, the blood finds its way into this cavity and, travelling forwards, appears as a subconjunctival ecchymosis. If the roof of the nasal fossa be fractured, the blood escapes fi'om the nose. In rare cases there may be also escape of cerebro-spinal fiuid from the nose, where the dura mater and arachnoid have l)een torn. In fractures of the posterior fossa, extravasation of blood may appear at the nape of the neck. The bones of the skull being subcutaneous are frequently the seat of nodes, and not uncommonly necrosis results from this cause, as well as from injury. Necrosis may involve the entire thickness of the skull, but is usually confined to the external table. Necrosis of the internal table alone is rarely met with. The bones of the skull are also frequently the seat of sarcomatous tumour. The skull in rickets is peculiar : the forehead is high, square, and projecting; and the antero-posterior diameter of the skull is long, in relation to the transverse diameter. The bones of the face are small and ill-developed, and this gives the appearance of a larger head than actually' exists. The bones of the head are often thick, especially in the neighbourhood of the sutures, and the anterior fontanelle is late in closing, sometimes