698 NERVOUS SYSTEM as the sides and bottom of the sulci between them, are composed of grey matter, which is here called the cortical substance. The interior of each convolution is composed of white matter ; and white fibres also blend with the grey matter at the sides and bottom of the sulci. By this arrangement the convolutions are adapted to increase the amount of grey matter without occupying much additional space, while they also afford a greater extent of surface for the termination of the white fibres in grey matter. The Lobes and Fissures of the Brain.—Each hemisphere of the brain on its external surface is divided into five lobes, the division being made by the main fissures and by imaginary lines drawn to connect them (fig. 416). The fissures dividing the five lobes on the external surface of the hemispheres are three in number, and are named : fissure of Sylvius, fissure of Bolando, and jjarieto-occipital fissure. Fig. 416.—Convolutions and fissures of the outer surface of the cerebral hemisphere. END OF CALLOSO- /MAf^GINAL FISSL/RP The fissure of Sylvius begins at the base of the brain at the anterior perforated space, and passes outwards to the external surface of the hemisphere. It gives off a short anterior limb, which passes forwards ; and another, ascending limb, which passes upwards into the inferior frontal convolution. It is then continued back- wards, as the horizontal limb, and terminates in the parietal lobe after curving upwards for a short distance. It separates the frontal and parietal lobes from the temporo-sphenoidal, and occupies the middle third of the lateral surface of the hemisphere. The fissure of Rolando is situated about the middle of the outer surface of the hemisphere. It commences at or near the longitudinal fissure, and runs downwards and forwards to terminate a little above the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and about half an inch behind the ascending limb of the same fissure. It separates the frontal from the parietal lobe.