319 LIGAMENTS OF SCAPULA manner upon a vertical axis drawn through the other, and it permits the surfaces of the scapula,, like the baskets in a roundabout swing, to look the same way in every position, or nearly so.' Again, when the whole arch formed by the clavicle and scapula rises and falls (in elevation or depression of the shoulders), the joint between these two bones enables the scapula still to maintain its lower part in contact with the ribs. Surface Form.—The position of the acromio-clavicular joint can generally be ascertained by the slightly enlarged extremity of the outer end of the clavicle, which causes it to project above the level of the acromion process of the scapula. Sometimes this enlargement is so considerable as to form a rounded eminence, which is easily to be felt. The joint lies in the plane of a vertical line passing up the middle of the front of the arm. Surgical Anaiomy.—Ov^ing^to the slanting shape of the articular surfaces of this joint, dislocation generally occurs downwards, that is to say, the acromion process of the scapula is dislocated under the outer end of the clavicle ; but dislocations in the opposite direction have been described. The displacement is often incomplete, on account of the strong coraco-clavicular ligaments, which remain untorn. The same difficulty exists, as in the sterno-clavicular dislocation, in maintaining the ends of the bone in position after reduction. III. Proper Ligaments of the Scapula (fig. 243) The proper ligaments of the scapula are, the Coraco-acromial. Transverse. The Coraco-acromial Ligament is a broad, thin, flat band, of a triangular shape, extended transversely above the upper part of the shoulder-joint, between the coracoid and acromial processes. It is attached, by its apex, to the summit of the acromion just in front of the articular surface for the clavicle; and by its broad base to the whole length of the outer border of the coracoid process. Its posterior fibres are directed obliquely backwards and inwards, its anterior fibres transversely inwards. This ligament completes the vault formed by the coracoid and acromion processes for the protection of the head of the humerus. It is in -relation, above, with the clavicle and under surface of the Deltoid; below, with the tendon of the Supraspinatus muscle, a bursa being interposed. Its anterior border is continuous with a dense cellular lamina that passes beneath the Deltoid upon the tendons of the Supra- and Infraspinatus muscles. This ligament is sometimes described as consisting of two marginal bands and a thinner intervening portion, the two bands being attached respectively to the apex and base of the coracoid process, and joining together at their attachment into the acromion process. When the Pectoralis minor is inserted, as sometimes is the case, into the capsule of the shoulder-joint instead of into the coracoid process, it passes between these two bands, and the intervening portion is then deficient. The Transverse or Coracoid (suprascapular) Ligament converts the supra- scapular notch into a foramen. It is a thin and flat fasciculus, narrower at the middle than at the extremities, attached, by one end, to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the inner extremity of the scapular notch. The suprascapular nerve passes through the foramen; the suprascapular vessels pass over the ligament. Movements of Scapula.—The scapula is capable of being moved upwards and downwards, forwards and backwards, or, by a combination of these movements, circumducted on the wall of the chest. The muscles which raise the scapula are the upper fibres of the Trapezius, the Levator anguli scapulae, and the two Rhomboids ; those which depress it are the lower fibres of the Trapezius, the Pectoralis minor and, through the clavicle, the Subclavius. The scapula is drawn backwards by the Rhomboids and the middle and lower fibres of the Trapezius, and foriuards by the Serratus magnus and Pectoralis minor, assisted when the arm is fixed by the Pectoralis major. The mobility of the scapula is very considerable, and greatly assists the movements of the arm at the shoulder- joint. Thus, in raising the arm from the side, the Deltoid and Supraspinatus can