173 INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE curved somewhat like a horse-shoe. It presents for examination two sm-faces and two borders. The external surface is convex from side to side, concave from above downwards. In the median line is a vertical ridge, the symphysis, which extends from the upper to the lower border of the bone, and indicates the point of junction of the two pieces of which the bone is composed at an early period of life. The lower part of the ridge terminates in a prominent triangular eminence, the mental process. This eminence is rounded below, and often presents a median depression separating two processes, the mental tubercles. It forms the chin, a feature peculiar to the human skull. On either side of the symphysis, just below the cavities for the incisor teeth, is a depression, the incisive fossa, for the attachment of the Levator menti (or Levator labii inferioris) ; more externally is attached a portion of the Orbicularis oris (Accessorii Orbicularis inferioris), and, still more externally, a foramen, the mental foramen, for the passage of the mental vessels and nerve. This foramen is placed just below the interval between the two bicuspid teeth. Running outwards from the base of the mental process on each side is a ridge, the external oblique line. The ridge is at first nearly Fig. 166.—Inferior maxillary bone. Outer surfacec Side Corouoid process Cooidyle horizontal, but afterwards inclines upwards and backwards, and is continuous jwith the anterior border of the ramus : it affords attachment to the Depressor [labii inferioris and Depressor anguli oris ; below it the Platysma myoides is jittached. The internal surface (fig. 167) is concave from side to side, convex from above iownwards. In the middle line is an indistinct linear depression, corresponding 10 the symphysis externally ; on either side of this depression, just below its centre, |ire four prominent tubercles, placed in pairs, two above and two below ; they are iialled the genial tubercles, and afford attachment, the upper pair to the Grenio- lyo-glossi muscles, the lower pair to the Genio-hyoidei muscles. Sometimes the ubercles on each side are blended into one, at others they all unite into an irregular iminence, or again, nothing but an irregularity may be seen on the surface of the j)one at this part. On either side of the genial tubercles is an oval depression, the Hihlingual fossa, for lodging the sublingual gland ; and beneath the fossa, a rough jlepression on each side, which gives attachment to the anterior belly of the Digastric muscle. At the back part of the sublingual fossa, the internal oblique ine (mylo-hyoiclean) commences ; it is at first faintly marked, but becomes more iistinct as it passes upwards and outwards, and is especially prominent opposite he last two molar teeth ; it affords attachment throughout its whole extent to the