THE EYE 835 The capsule of Tenon {tunica vaginalis ocidi) may be regarded as a distinct serous membrane, consisting of a parietal and visceral layer. The latter invests the posterior part of the globe from the ciliary margin of the cornea backwards to the entrance of the optic nerve, and is connected to it by very delicate connective tissue ; the former (parietal) lines the hollow in the fat in which the eyeball is embedded. Both layers are lined on their free surfaces by endothelial cells. The cavity between them is continuous with the spaces between the different layers of the sheath of the optic nerve—-that is to say, with the subarachnoidean between the pia-niatral and the arachnoid sheath, and the suhdural between the arachnoid and dural sheath—and into it empty the lymphatic vessels of the sclerotic. The capsule is pierced by the muscles of the eyeball near their insertion, and sends tubular prolongations on them, which become continuous with the sheath of the muscles. From the outer surface of these sheaths, expansions, consisting of elastic fibres and muscle-cells, are given off to the margin of the orbit, which serve to limit the degree of contraction of the muscles.* The eyeball is composed of segments of two spheres of different sizes. The anterior segment is one of a small sphere, and forms about one-sixth of the eyeball. It is more prominent than the posterior segment, which is one of a much larger sphere, and forms about five-sixths of the globe. The segment of the larger sphere is opaque, and formed by the sclerotic, the tunic of protection to the eyeball; the smaller sphere is transparent, and formed by the cornea. The axes of the eyeballs are nearly parallel, and do not correspond to the axes of the orbits, which are directed outwards. The optic nerves follow the direction of the axes of the orbits and are therefore not parallel; they enter the eyeball a little to their inner or nasal side. The eyeball measures rather more in its transverse than in its antero- posterior and vertical diameters, the former amounting to about an inch, the latter to about nine-tenths of an inch. The eyeball is composed of several investing tunics, and of fluid and solid refracting media, called humours. The tunics are three in number : — 1. Sclerotic and Cornea. 2. Choroid, Iris, and Ciliary Processes. 3. Retina. The refracting media, or humours, are also three :— Aqueous. Crystalline (lens) and Capsule. Vitreous. The sclerotic and cornea form the external tunic of the eyeball; they are essentially fibrous in structure, the sclerotic being opaque, and forming the posterior five-sixths of the globe ; the cornea, which forms the remaining sixth, being transparent. The Sclerotic (o-KXrjpo^;, hard) (fig. 487) has received its name from its extreme density and hardness ; it is a firm, unyielding, fibrous membrane, serving to main- tain the form of the globe. It is much thicker behind than in front. Its external surface is of a white colour, quite smooth, except at the points where the Recti and Obliqui muscles are inserted into it, and covered, for part of its extent, by the conjunctival membrane ; hence the whiteness and brilliancy of the front of the eyeball. Its inner surface is stained of a brown colour, marked by grooves, in which are lodged the ciliary nerves, and connected by an exceedingly fine cellular tissue (lamina fusca) with the outer surface of the choroid. Behind, it is pierced by the optic nerve a little to its inner or nasal side, and is continuous with the fibrous sheath of the nerve, which is derived from the dura mater. At the point where the optic nerve passes through the sclerotic, this membrane forms a thin cribriform lamina (the lamina crihrosa) ; the minute orifices in this layer serve for the transmission of. the nervous filaments, and the fibrous septa dividing them * See a paper by Mr. C. B. Lockwood, Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xx. part i. p. I. 3 H 2