234 THE SKELETON lateral ligaments. There is in this situation a little dimple in the skin, which is most visible when the arm is extended, and which marks the position of the head of the bone. If the finger is placed on this dimple, and the forearm pronated and siipinated, the head of the bone will be distinctly perceived rotating in the lesser sigmoid cavity. The upper half of the shaft of the radius cannot be felt, as it is surrounded by the fleshy bellies of the muscles arising from the external condyle. The lower half of the shaft can be readily examined, though covered by tendons and muscles and not strictly subcutaneous. If traced downwards, the shaft will be felt to terminate in a lozenge-shaped, convex surface on the outer side of the base of tlie styloid process. This is the only subcutaneous part of the bone, and from its lower extremity the apex of the styloid process will be felt bending inwards towards the wrist. About the middle of the posterior aspect of the lower extremity of the bone is a well-marked ridge, best 2)erceived when the hand is slightly Hexed on the wrist. It bounds the oblique groove on the posterior surface of the bone, through which the tendon of the Extensor longus poUicis runs, and serves to keep that tendon in its place. Surgical Anatomy.—The two bones of the forearm are more often broken together, than is either the radius or ulna separately. It is therefore convenient to consider the fractures of these two bones together in the first instance and subse(piently to mention the principal fractures which take place in each bone individually. These fractures may be produced by either direct or indirect violence, though more commonly by direct violence. "When indirect force is applied to the forearm the radius generally alone gives way, though both bones may suffer. The fracture from indirect force generally takes place somewhere about the middle of the bones, fracture from direct violence may occur at any part, more often, however, in the lower half of the bone. The fracture is usually transverse, but may be more or less oblique. A point of interest in connection with these fractures is the tendency that there is for the two bones to unite across the interosseous membrane ; the limb should therefore be put up in a position midway between supination and pronation, which is not only the most comfortable position, but also separates the bones most widely from each other and therefore diminishes the risk of the bones becoming united across the interosseous membrane. The splints, anterior and posterior, which are applied in these cases should be rather wider than the limb, so as to prevent any lateral pressure on the bones. For in these cases there is a greater liability to gangrene from the pressure of the splints than in other parts of the body. This is no doubt due principally to two causes : (i) the flexion of the forearm compressing to a certain extent the brachial artery and retarding the flow of blood to the limb; and (2) the superficial position of the two main arteries of the forearm in a part of their course, and their liability to be compressed by the splints. The special fractures of the ulna are :—(i) fracture of the olecranon. This may be caused by direct violence, falls on the elbow with the forearm flexed, or by muscular action by the sudden contraction of the triceps. The most common place for the fi^actm-e to occur is at the constricted portion where the olecranon joins the shaft of the bone, and the fracture may be either transverse or oblique; but any part may be broken, even a thin shell may be torn off. Fractures from direct violence are occasionally comminuted. The displace- ment is sometimes very slight, owing to the fibrous structures around the process not being torn. (2) Fractm-e of the coronoid process sometimes occurs as a complication of dis- location backwards of the bones of the forearm, but it is doubtful if it ever occurs as an uncomplicated injury. (3) Fractures of the shaft of the ulna may occur at nwy part, but usually take place at the middle of the bone or a little below it. They are almost always the result of direct violence. (4) The styloid process may be knocked off by direct violence. Fractures of the radius consist of (1) fractm-e of the head of the bone ; this generally occurs in conjimction with some other lesion, but may occur as an uncomplicated injury. (2) Fracture of the neck may also take place, but is generallN' complicated with otlier injury. (3) Fractures of the shaft of the radius are very common, and ma}' take place at any part of the bone. They may take place from either direct or indirect violence. (4) Tlie most important fracture of the radius is that of the lower end (Colles's fracture). The fracture is transverse, and generally takes place about an inch from the lower extremity. It is caused by falls on the palm of the hand, and is an injury of advanced life, occurring more frequently in the female than the mnle. In consequence of the manner in which the fracture is caused, the upper fragment l)ecomes driven into the lower, and nupaction is the result; or else the lower fragment becomes split up into two or more pieces, so that no fixation occm-s. Separation of the lower epiphysis of the radius may take place in the young. This injury and Colles's fracture may be distinguished from other injuries in this neighbourhood— especially dislocation, with which it is liable to be confounded—by observing the relative positions of the styloid processes of the ulna and radius. In the natural condition of parts, with the arm hanging by the side, the styloid process of the radius is on a lower level than that of the ulna, that is to say, nearer the ground. After fracture or separation of the epiphysis this process is on the same or higher level than that of the ulna, whereas it would be unaltered in position in dislocation.