GENERAL ANATOMY The epidermis or cuticle {scarf-skin, fig. 68) is an epithelial structure belonging to the class of stratified epithelium. It is accurately moulded on the papillary layer of the derma. It forms a defensive covering to the surface of the true skin, and limits the evaporation of watery vapour from its free surface. It varies in thickness in different parts. In some situations, as in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, it is thick, hard, and horny in texture. This may be partly due to the fact that these parts are exposed to intermittent pressure, but that this is not the only cause is proved by the fact that the condition exists to a very considerable extent at birth. The Fig. 67.—A sectional view of the skin (magnified). Suhcii- tcnieous cellidar tissue Sir eat qlands more superficial layer of cells, called the horny layer {stratum corneum) may be separated by maceration from the deeper layers, which are called the rete mu- cosum, and which con- sist of several layers of differently shaped cells. The free surface of the epidermis is marked by a network of linear fur- ro^vs of variable size, marking out the surface into a number of spaces of polygonal or lozenge- shaped form. Some of these furrows are large, as opposite the flexures of the joints, and cor- respond to the folds in the derma produced by their movements. In other situations, as upon the back of the hand, they are exceedingly fine, and intersect one another at various angles; upon the pal- mar surface of the hand and fingers, and upon the sole of the foot, these lines are very distinct, and are disposed in curves. They depend upon the large size and peculiar arrangement of the papillse upon which the epidermis is placed. The deep surface of the epidermis is accurately moulded upon the papillary layer of the derma, each papilla being invested by its epidermic sheath; so that when this layer is removed by macera- tion, it presents on its under surface a number of pits or depressions corresponding to the elevations in the papillae, as well as the ridges left in the intervals between them. Fine tubular prolongations are continued from this layer into the ducts of the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands. In structure, the epidermis consists of several layers of' epithelial cells, aggiu- , tinated together and having a laminated arrangement. These several layers may ^ be described as composed of four different strata from within outwards : (i) the i rete Malpighii, composed of several layers of epithelial cells, of which the deepest layer is elongated in figure and placed perpendicularly on the surface of the corium, their lower ends being denticulate, to fit into corresponding denticula- tions of the true skin; while the succeeding laminae consist of cells of a mor^ rounded or polyhedral form, the contents of which are soft, opaque, granular, anc I*