491 INTEENAL FEMORAL REGION 327.—Deep muscles of the internal femoral re£jion. downwards, backwards, and outwards, is inserted, by an aponeurosis, into the linea aspera, betAveen the Vastus internus and the Adductor magnus, with which it is usually blended. Relations.—By its anterior surface, FiCx. with the fascia lata, the Sartorius, and, near its insertion, with the femoral artery and vein. By its posterior surface, with the Adductor brevis and magnus, the an- terior branches of the obturator nerve, and with the profunda artery and vein near its insertion. By its outer border, with the Pectineus. By its Limer border, with the Gracilis. The Pectineus and Adductor longns should now be divided near their origin, and turned downwards, when the Adductor brevis and Obturator externus will be exposed. The Adductor brevis is situated im- mediately behind the two preceding muscles. It is somewhat triangular in form, and arises by a narrow origin from the outer surface of the body and descend- ing ramus of the os pubis, between the Gracilis and Obturator externus. Its fibres, passing backwards, outwards, and downwards, are inserted, by an aponeu- rosis, into the lower part of the line leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera and the upper part of the linea aspera, immediately behind the Pectineus and upper part of the Adductor longus. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the Pectineus, Adductor longus, pro- funda femoris artery, and anterior branches of the obturator nerve. By its 2)osterior surface, with the x\dductor magnus, and posterior branch of the obturator nerve. By its outer border, with the Obturator externus, and conjoined tendon of the Psoas and Iliacus. By its inner, border, with the Gracilis and x\dductor magnus. This muscle is pierced, near its insertion, by the middle perforating branch of the profunda femoris artery. The Adductor brevis should now be cut away near its origin, and turned outwards, when the entire extent of the Adductor magnus will be exposed. The Adductor magnas is a large tri- angular muscle, forming a septum between the muscles on the inner and those on the back of the thigh. It arises from a small part of the descending ramus of the OS pubis, from the ascending ramus of the ischium, and from the outer margin and under surface of the tuberositv of the ischium. Those fibres which arise from