THE SKELETON 250 surfaces and three borders. The anterior surface is rough, directed forwards and outwards, and serves for the attachment of various muscles. To the upper and inner angle, immediately below the crest, is attached the Adductor longus ; lower down, from without inwards, are attached the Obturator externus, the Adductor brevis, and the upper part of the Gracilis. The posterior surface, convex from above downwards, concave from side to side, is smooth, and forms part of the anterior wall of the pelvis. It gives attachment to the Levator ani. Obturator internus, a few muscular fibres prolonged from the bladder, and the pubo-prostatic ligaments. The uioper border presents for examination a prominent tubercle, which projects forwards and is called the spine ; to it is attached the outer pillar of the external abdominal ring and Poupart's ligament. Passing outwards from this is a promi- nent ridge, forming part of the ilio-jjectineal line which, running outwards, marks the brim of the true pelvis : to it is attached a portion of the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis muscles, Gimbernat's ligament and the triangular ligament of the abdomen. Internal to the spine of the os pubis is the crest, which extends from this process to the inner extremity of the bone. It affords attachment, anteriorly, to the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis; and posteriorly, to the Eectus and Pyramidalis muscles. The point of junction of the crest with the inner border of the bone is called the angle ; to it, as well as to the symphysis, is attached the internal pillar of the external abdominal ring. The internal border is the symphysis ; it is oval, covered by eight or nine transverse ridges, or a series of nipple-like processes arranged in rows, separated by grooves ; they serve for the attachment of a thin layer of cartilage, placed between it and the central fibro-cartilage. The outer border presents a sharp margin, which forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen and affords attachment to the obturator membrane. The horizontal ramus extends from the body to the point of junction of the os pubis with the ilium, and forms the upper part of the circumference of the obturator foramen. It presents for examination a superior, inferior, and posterior surface, and an outer extremity. The superior surface presents a continuation of the ilio-pectineal line, already mentioned as commencing on the body of the bone. In front of this ridge, the surface of bone is triangular in form, wider externally than internally, smooth, and affords attachment to the Pectineus muscle. The surface is bounded externally by a rough eminence, the ilio-pectineal, which serves to indicate the point of junction of the ilium and pubes, and gives attachment to the Psoas parvus, when this muscle is present. The inferior surface forms the upper boundary of the obturator foramen, and presents, externally, a broad and deep, oblique groove, for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve ; and internally, a sharp margin which forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen, and to which the obturator membrane is attached. The posterior surface forms part of the anterior boundary of the true pelvis. It is smooth, convex from above downwards, and affords attachment to the upper fibres of the obturator internus. The outer extremity, the thickest part of the ramus, forms one-fifth of the cavity of the acetabulum. The descending ramus of the os pubis is thin and flattened. It passes outw^ards and downwards, becoming narrower as it descends and joins with the ramus of the ischium. Its anterior surface is rough, for the attachment of muscles—the Gracilis along its inner border ; a portion of the Obturator externus where it enters into the formation of the foramen of that name; and between these two muscles, the Adductores brevis and magnus from within outwards. The posterior surface is smooth, and gives attachment to the Obturator internus, and close to the inner margin to the Compressor urethr^e. The inner border is thick, rough, and everted, especially in females. It presents two ridges, separated by an intervening space. The ridges extend downwards, and are continuous with similar ridges on the ascending ramus of the ischium ; to the external one is attached the deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia, and to the internal one the anterior layer of the triangular ligament of the perineum. The outer border is thin and sharp, forms