539 INTERNAL MAXILLAEY Surgical Anatomy.—The ascending pharyngeal artery has been wounded from the throat ; as in the case in which the stem of a tobacco-pipe was driven into the vessel, causing fatal haemorrhage. The Superficial Temporal Artery (fig. 349), the smaller of the two terminal branches of the external carotid, appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of that vessel. It commences in the substance of the parotid gland, in the interspace between the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw and the external meatus, crosses over the posterior root of the zygoma, passes beneath the Attrahens aurem muscle, and divides, about two inches above the zygomatic arch, into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior temporal inclines forwards over the forehead, supplying the muscles, integument, and pericranium in this region, and anastomoses wdth the supra-orbital and frontal arteries. The posterior temporal, larger than the anterior, curves upwards and backwards along the side of the head, lying superficial to the temporal fascia, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the posterior auricular and occipital arteries. The superficial temporal artery, as it crosses the zygoma, is covered by the Attrahens aurem muscle, and by a dense fascia given off from the parotid gland : it is also usually crossed by one or two veins, and accompanied by branches of the facial and auriculo-temporal nerves. Besides some twigs to the parotid gland, the articulation of the jaw, and the Masseter muscle, its branches are, the Transverse Facial. Middle Temporal. Anterior Auricular. The transverse facial is given off from the temporal before that vessel quits the parotid gland; running forwards through its substance, it passes transversely across the face, between Stenson's duct and the lower border of the zygoma, and divides on the side of the face into numerous branches, which supply the parotid gland, the Masseter muscle, and the integument, anastomosing with the facial, masseteric, and infra-orbital arteries. This vessel rests on the Masseter, and i accompanied by one or two branches of the facial nerve. It is sometimes a branch of the external carotid. The middle temporal artery arises immediately above the zygomatic arch, and, perforating the temporal fascia, supplies the Temporal muscle, anastomosing with the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary. It occasionally gives off an orbital branch, which runs along the upper border of the zygoma, between the two layers of the temporal fascia, to the outer angle of the orbit. This branch supplies the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and anastomoses with the lachrymal and palpebral branches of the ophthalmic artery. The anterior auricular branches are distributed to the anterior portion of the pinna, the lobule, and part of the external meatus, anastomosing with branches of the posterior auricular. Surgical Anatomy.—It occasionally happens that the surgeon is called upon to perform the operation of arteriotomy upon this vessel in cases of inflammation of the eye or brain. If the student will consider the relations of the trunk of this vessel, as it crosses the zygomatic arch, with the surrounding structures, he will observe that it is covered by a thick and dense fascia, crossed by one or two veins, and accompanied by branches of the facial and auriculo-temporal nerves. Bleeding should not be performed in this situation, as much difficulty may arise from the dense fascia over the vessel preventing a free flow of blood, and considerable pressure is requisite afterwards to repress the haemorrhage. Again, a varicose aneurism may be formed by the accidental opening of one of the veins in front of the artery; or severe neuralgic pain may arise from the operation implicating one of the nervous filaments in the neighbourhood. The anterior branch, on the contrary, is subcutaneous, is a large vessel, and is readily comj^ressed; it should consequently alwa.ys be selected for the operation. The Internal Maxillary (fig. 350), the larger of the two terminal branches of the external carotid, passes inwards, at right angles from that vessel, to the inner side of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, to supply the deep structures of