26 GENEEAL ANATOMY Fig. 28.—Nucleated bone-cells and their processes, contained in the bone-lacunae and their canaliculi re- spectively. From a section through the vertebra of an adult mouse. (Klein and Noble Smith.) be held together by tapering fibres, which run obliquely through them, pinning or bolting them together. These fibres were first described by Sharpey, and were named by him perforating fibres. The lacun(B are situated between the lamella, and consist of a number of oblong spaces. In an ordinary microscopic section, viewed by transmitted light, they appear a,s dark, oblong, opaque spots, and were formerly believed to be solid cells. Subsequently, when it was seen that the Haversian canals were channels w^hich lodge the vessels of the part, and the canaliculi minute tubes by which the plasma of the blood circulates through the tissue, it was taught that the lacunae were hollow spaces filled during life with the same fluid, and only lined (if lined at all) by a delicate membrane. But this view appears also to be delusive. Ex- amination of the structure of bone, w^hen recent, led Virchowto believe that the lacunae, are occupied during life with a nucle- ated cell, the processes from which pass down the canaliculi—a view which is now universally received (fig. 28). It is by means of these cells that the fluids neces- sary for nutrition are brought into contact with the ultimate tissue of bone. The canaliculi are exceedingly minute channels, Avhich pass across the lamellae and connect the lacunae with neighbouring- lacunae and also with the Haversian canal. From this central canal a number of the canaliculi are given off, which radiate from it, and open into the first set of lacunae, arranged around the Haversian canal, be- tween the first and second lamellae. From these lacunae a second set of canaliculi are given off, wdiich pass outwards to the next series of lacunae, and so on until they reach the periphery of the Haversian system ; here the canaliculi given off from the last series of lacuna? do not communicate with the lacunae of neighbouring Haversian systems, but after passing outwards for a short distance form loops and return to their own lacuna. Thus every part of an Haversian system is supplied with nutrient fluids derived from the vessels in the Haversian canals and traversing the canaliculi and lacunae. The hone-cells are contained in the lacunae, which, however, they do not completely fill. They are flattened nucleated cells, which Virchow has shown are homologous with those of connective tissue. The cells are branched, and the branches, especially in young bones, pass into the canaliculi from the lacuna?. If a longitudinal section is examined, as in fig. 29, the structure is seen to be the same. The appearance of concentric rings is replaced by that of lamellae or rows of lacunae, parallel to the course of the Haversian canals, and these canals appear like half-tubes instead of circular spaces. The tubes are seen to branch and communicate, so that each separate Haversian canal runs only a short distance. In other respects the structure has much the same appearance as in transverse sections. In sections of thin plates of bone (as in the walls of the cells which form the cancellous tissue) the Haversian canals are absent and the canaliculi open into the spaces of the cancellous tissue (medullary spaces), which thus have the same function as the Haversian canals in the more compact bone. Chemical Composition.— Bone consists of an animal and an earthy part intimately combined together. The animal part may be obtained by immersing the bone for a considerable time in dilute mineral acid, after which process the bone comes out exactly the same shape as before, but perfectly flexible, so that a long bone (one of the ribs, for