OF THE RIBS WITH TRANSVERSE PROCESSES 305 ligament Belations.—ln front, with the thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, the plem^a, and, on the right side, with the vena azygos major ; behind, with the interarticular ligament and synovial membranes. In the first rib, which articulates with a single vertebra only, this does not present a distinct division into three fascicuh ; its fibres, however, radiate, and are attached to the body of the last cervical vertebra, as well as to the body of the vertebra with which the rib articulates. In the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs also, which hkewise articulate with a single vertebra, the division does not exist; but the fibres of the hgament in each case radiate and are connected with the vertebra above, as well as that with which the ribs articulate. The Capsular Ligament is a thin and loose ligamentous bag, which surrounds the joint between the head of the rib and the articular cavity formed by the intervertebral disc and the adjacent vertebrae. Fig. 235.—Costo-vertebral and costo-transverse articulations. It is very thin, firmly Anterior view, connected with the an- terior ligament, and most distinct at the upper and lower parts of the articulation. Be- hind, some of its fibres pass through the inter- vertebral foramen to the back of the interverte- bral disc. This is the analogue of the liga- mentum conjugale of some mammals, which unites the heads of oppo- site ribs across the back of the intervertebral disc. The Interarticular Ligament is situated in the interior of the joint. It consists of a short band of fibres, flattened from above downwards, attached by one extremity to the sharp crest on the head of the rib, and by the other to the intervertebral disc. It divides the joint into two cavities, which have no communication with each other. In the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, the interarticular ligament does not exist; consequently, there is but one synovial membrane. The Synovial Membrane.—There are two synovial membranes in each of the articulations in which there is an interarticular ligament, one on each side of this structure. cavity Interarticular ligament Lower synovial cavity 2. Articulations of the Necks and Tubercles of the Ribs with THE Transverse Processes (fig. 236) The articular portion of the tubej'cle of the rib and adjacent transverse process form an arthrodial joint. In the eleventh and huelftli ribs this articulation is wanting. The ligaments connecting these parts are the—■ Anterior Costo-transverse. Middle Costo-transverse (Interosseous). Posterior Costo-transverse. Capsular. X