871 MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH is enclosed and to which it is limited; but is considerably smaller, and separated from their lining membrane by the perilymph. The vestibular 'portion consists of two sacs, the utricle and the saccule. The utricle is the larger of the two, ol an oblong form, compressed laterally, and occupies the upper and back part of the vestibule, lying in contact with the fovea semi-elliptica. Numerous filaments of the auditory nerve are distributed on the wall of this sac ; and its cavity communicates behind with the membranous semicircular canals by five orifices. The saccule is the smaller of the two vestibular sacs ; it is globular in form, lies ill the fovea hemispherica, near the opening of the vestibular scala of the cochlea, and receives numerous nervous filaments, which enter from the bottom of the depression in which it is contained. Its cavity is apparently distinct from that of the utricle. The membranous semicircular canals are about one-third the diameter of the osseous canals, but in number, shape, and general form they are precisely similar ; they are hollow, and open by five orifices into the utricle, one opening being Fig. 508.—The membranous labyrinth. (Enlarged.) common to two canals. Their ampullae are thicker than the rest of the tubes, and nearly fill the cavities in which they are contained. The membranous labyrinth is held in its position by numerous fibrous bands which stretch across the space between the membranous and bony labyrinths. These fibrous bands convey the blood-vessels and nervous filaments distributed to the utricle, to the saccule, and to the ampulla of each canal. The nerves enter the vestibule through the minute apertures on its inner wall. Structure.—The wall of the membranous labyrinth is semi-transparent, and consists of three layers. The cuter layer is a loose and flocculent structure, apparently composed of ordinary fibrous tissue, containing blood-vessels and numerous pigment-cells analogous to those in the pigment-coat of the retina. The middle layer, thicker and more transparent, bears some resemblance to the hyaloid membrane, but it presents on its internal surface numerous papilliform projections^ and on the addition of acetic acid presents an appearance of longitudinal fibrillation and elongated nuclei. The inner layer is formed of polygonal nucleated epithelial cells, which secrete the endolymph. The endolymph (liquor Scarpce) is a limpid serous fluid, which fills the membranous labyrinth ; in composition it closely resembles the perilymph. The otoliths are two small rounded bodies, consisting of a mass of minute crystalline grains of carbonate of lime, held together in a mesh of delicate fibrous tissue, and contained in the walls of the utricle and saccule, opposite the distribu- tion of the nerves. A calcareous material is also, according to Bowman, sparingly scattered in the cells lining the ampulla of each semicircular canal.