ORGANS OF SENSE 840 Th.e ciliary processes are formed by the plaiting and folding inwards of the various layers of the choroid (i.e. the choroid proper and the lamina vitrea) at its anterior margin, and are received between corresponding foldings of the suspensory ligament of the lens, thus establishing a connection between the choroid and inner tunic of the eye. They are arranged in a circle, and form a sort of plaited frill behind the iris, round the margin of the lens. They vary between sixty and eighty in number, lie side by side, and may be divided into large and small; the latter, consisting of about one-third of the entire number, are situated in the spaces between the former, but without regular alternation. The larger processes are each about one-tenth of an inch in length, and are attached by their periphery to the ciliary muscle, and are continuous with the layers of the choroid : the opposite margin is free, and rests upon the circumference of the lens. Their anterior surface is turned towards the back of the iris, with the circumference of which they are continuous. The posterior surface is closely connected with the suspensory ligament of the lens. Structure.—The ciliary processes are similar in structure to the choroid, but the vessels are larger, and have chiefly a longitudinal direction. They are covered Fig. 490.—The arteries of the choroid and iris. The sclerotic has been mostly removed. (Enlarged.) on their inner surface with a layer of black pigment-cells, continuous with the cells of the pigmentary layer of the retina, and in their stroma are also other, stellate, pigment-cells, which, however, are not so numerous as in the choroid itself, and towards the free extremities of the folds are devoid of pigment. The Iris {iris, a rainbow) has received its name from its various colours in different individuals. It is a thin, circular-shaped, contractile curtain, suspended in the aqueous humour behind the cornea, and in front of the lens, being perforated a little to the nasal side of its centre by a circular aperture, the pupil, for the transmission of light. By its circumference it is intimately connected with the choroid ; externally to this is the ciliary muscle, by which it is connected to the sclerotic and cornea; its inner edge forms the margin of the pupil; its surfaces are flattened, and look forwards and backwards, the anterior surface towards the cornea, the posterior towards the ciliary processes and lens. The circumference of the iris is connected to the cornea by a reticular structure denominated the ligamentum pectiiiatum iridis. The anterior surface of the iris is variously coloured in different individuals, and marked by lines which converge towards the pupil. The posterior surface is of a deep purple tint, from being covered by dark pigment; it is hence named uvea, from its resemblance in colour to a ripe grape.