791 DORSAL and then ramify in the integument. They are frequently furnished with gangiiform enlargements. The six lower cutaneous nerves are derived from the external branches of the posterior divisions of the dorsal nerves. They pierce the Serratus posticus inferior and Latissimus dorsi, in a line with the angles of the ribs, and then ramify in the integument. Anterior Divisions of the Dorsal Nerves The anterior divisions of the dorsal nerves {intercostal nerves) are twelve in number on each side. They are, for the most part, distributed to the parietes of the thorax and abdomen, separately from each other, without being joined in a plexus ; in which respect they differ from the other spinal nerves. Each nerve is connected with the adjoining ganglia of the sympathetic by one or two filaments. The intercostal nerves may be divided into two sets, from the difference they present in their distribution. The six upper, with the exception of the first and the intercosto-humeral branch of the second, are limited in their distribution to the parietes of the chest. The six lower supply the parietes of the chest and abdomen, the last one sending a cutaneous filament to the hip. The first dorsal nerve.—The anterior division of the first dorsal nerve divides into two branches: one, the larger, leaves the thorax in front of the neck of the first rib, and enters into the formation of the brachial plexus; the other and smaller branch runs along the first intercostal space, forming the first intercostal nerve, and terminates on the front of the chest, by forming the first anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. Occasionally this anterior cutaneous branch is wanting. The first intercostal nerve as a rule gives off no lateral cutaneous branch; but sometimes a small branch is given off', which communicates with the intercosto-humeral. The upper dorsal nerves.—The anterior divisions of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal nerves and the small branch from the first dorsal are confined to the parietes of the thorax, and are named upper or pectoral intercostal nerves. They pass forwards in the intercostal spaces with the intercostal vessels, being situated bel6w them. At the back of the chest they lie between the pleura and the External intercostal muscle, but are soon placed between the two planes of Intercostal muscles as far as the middle of the rib. They then enter the substance of the Internal intercostal muscles, and, running amidst their fibres as far as the costal cartilages, they gain the inner surface of the muscles and lie between them and the pleura. Near the sternum, they cross the internal mammary artery and Triangularis sterni muscle, pierce the Internal intercostal and Pectoralis major muscles, and supply the integument of the front of the chest and over the mammary gland, forming the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax; the branch from the second nerve becoming joined with the supraclavicular nerves of the cervical plexus. Branches.—Numerous slender muscular filaments supply the Intercostals, the Infracostales, the Levatores costarum, Serratus posticus superior, and Triangularis sterni muscles. Some of these branches, at the front of the chest, cross the costal cartilages from one to another intercostal space. Lateral cutaneous nerves.—These are derived from the intercostal nerves, midway between the vertebrae and sternum; they pierce the External intercostal and Serratus magnus muscles, and divide into two branches, anterior and posterior. The anterior branches are reflected forwards to the side and the fore part of the chest, supplying the integument of the chest and mamma, and the upper digitations of the External oblique. The posterior branches are reflected backwards, to supply the integument over the scapula and over the Latissimus dorsi. The lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve is of large size, and does not divide, like the other nerves, into an anterior and posterior branch.