747 FIFTH. SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION Its branches of communication.—Like the other gangiia of the fifth nerve, it possesses a motor, a sensory, and a sympathetic root. Its sensory root is derived from the superior maxillary nerve through its two spheno-palatine branches. These branches of the nerve, given off in the spheno-maxillary fossa, descend to the ganglion. Their fibres, for the most part, pass in front of the ganglion, as they proceed to their destination, in the palate and nasal fossa, and are not incorporated in the ganglionic mass ; some few of the fibres, however, enter the ganglion, constituting its sensory root. Its motor root is derived from the facial nerve through the large superficial petrosal nerve ; and its sympathetic root, from the carotid plexus, through the large deep petrosal nerve. These two nerves join together to form a single nerve, the Vidian, before their entrance into the ganglion. The large superficial petrosal branch (nervus petrosus superficialis major) is given off from the intumescentia ganglioformis in the aqueductus Fallopii; it passes through the hiatus Fallopii; enters the cranial cavity, and runs for- wards contained in a groove on the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, lying beneath the dura mater and the Gasserian ganglion. It then enters the cartilaginous substance which fills in the foramen lacerum medium basis cranii, and joining with the large deep petrosal branch forms the Vidian nerve. The large deep petrosal branch [nervus petrosus profundus) is given off from the carotid plexus, and runs through the carotid canal on the outer side of the internal carotid artery. It then enters the cartilaginous substance which fills in the foramen lacerum medium, and joins with the large superficial petrosal nerve to form the Vidian. The Vidian nerve, formed in the cartilaginous substance which fills in the middle lacerated foramen by the junction of the two preceding nerves, passes forwards, through the Vidian canal, with the artery of the same name, and, entering the spheno-maxillary fossa, joins the posterior angle of Meckel's ganglion. Its branches of distribution are divisible into four groups: ascending, which pass to the orbit; descending, to the palate ; internal, to the nose ; and posterior branches, to the pharynx and nasal fossae. The ascending branches are two or three delicate filaments, which enter the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and supply the periosteum. Arnold describes and delineates these branches as ascending to the optic nerve. Bock describes a branch as going to the cavernous sinus to communicate with the sixth nerve, and Tiedemann a communicating branch to the ophthalmic ganglion. The descending or palatine branches are distributed to the roof of the mouth, the soft palate, tonsil, and lining membrane of the nose. They are almost a direct continuation of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve, and are three in number : anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior or large palatine nerve descends through the posterior palatine canal, emerges upon the hard palate, at the posterior palatine foramen, and passes forwards through a groove in the hard palate, nearly as far as the incisor teeth. It supplies the gums, the mucous membrane and glands of the hard palate, and communicates in front with the termination of the naso-palatine nerve. While in the posterior palatine canal, it gives oft' inferior nasal branches, which enter the nose through openings in the palate bone, and ramify over the middle meatus and the middle and inferior spongy bones; and, at its exit from the canal, a palatine branch is distributed to both surfaces of the soft palate. The middle or external palatine nerve descends, through one of the accessory palatine canals, distributing branches to the uvula, tonsil, and soft palate. It is occasionally wanting. posterior or small palatine nerve descends with a small artery through the small posterior palatine canal, emerging by a separate opening behind the posterior palatine foramen. It supplies the Levator palati and Azygos uvulae muscles, the soft palate, tonsil, and uvula. The middle and posterior palatine join with the