833 THE NASAL FOSS^ tapering extremity projecting between the other cells. Beneath the epithelium, extending through the thickness of the mucous membrane, is a layer of glands, the glands of Bowman, identical in structure with serous glands. The mucous membrane is pigmented in the olfactory, but not in the other regions, being of a light yellow colour, at least in the white races.* The arteries of the nasal fossce are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, from the ophthalmic, which supply the ethmoidal cells, frontal sinuses, and roof of the nose; a minute twig from the small meningeal; the spheno-palatine, from the internal maxillary, which supplies the mucous membrane covering the spongy bones, the meatuses and septum ; the inferior artery of the septum from the superior coronary of the facial; and the alveolar branch of the internal maxillary, which supplies the lining membrane of the antrum. The ramifications of these vessels form a close, plexiform network, beneath and in the substance of the mucous membrane. The veins of the nasal fossce form a close network beneath the mucous membrane. They pass, some with the veins accompanying the spheno-palatine artery, through the spheno-palatine foramen ; and others, through the alveolar br^inch, to join the facial vein ; some accom- pany the ethmoidal arteries, and terminate in the ophthalmic vein ; and, lastly, a few communicate with the veins in the interior of the skull, through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and the foramen caecum. The nerves are : the olfactory, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, filaments from the anterior dental branch of the superior maxillary, the Vidian, naso-palatine, descending anterior palatine, and nasal branches of Meckel's ganglion. The olfactory, the special nerve of the sense of smell, is distributed over the upper third of the septum, and over the surface of the superior and middle spongy bones. The nasal branch of the oijhthahnic distributes filaments to the fore part of the septum, and outer wall of the nasal fossas. Filaments from the anterior dental branch of the siqjerior maxillary supply the inferior meatus and inferior turbinated bone. The Vidian nerve supplies the upper and back part of the septum, and superior spongy bone ; and the upper anterior nasal branches from the spheno-palatine ganglion have a similar distribution. The naso-palatine nerve supplies the middle of the septum. The larger, or anterior palatine nerve supplies the middle and lower spongy bones. Surgical Anatomy.—Instances of congenital deformity of the nose are occasionally met with, such as complete absence of the nose, an aperture only being present; or perfect development on one side, and suppression or malformation on the other ; or there maybe imperfect apposition of the nasal bones, so that the nose presents a median cleft or furrow. Deformities which have been acquired are much more common, such as flattening of the nose, the result of syphilitic necrosis ; or imperfect development of the nasal bones in cases of congenital syphilis ; or a lateral deviation of the nose may result from fracture. The skin over the alae and tip of the nose is thick and closely adherent to subjacent * An interesting speculation has been suggested by Dr. W. Ogle (Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. liii. p. 277) as to the possible connection between the presence and abundance of this pigment and the perfection of the sense of smell. 3H Fig. 486.—Nerves of septum of nose. Eight side.