GENERAL ANATOMY 30 Avhich are still formed by calcified cartilage-matrix, containing an embryonic marrow, derived from the processes sent in from the osteogenetic layer of the peri- osteum, and consisting of blood-vessels and round cells, osteoblasts (fig. 33), some of which probably are derived from the division of the original cartilage-cells, which have disappeared. The walls of these secondary areolae are at this time of only inconsiderable thickness, but they now become thickened by the deposition of layers of new bone on their interior. This pro- cess takes place in the following manner. Some of the osteoblasts of the embryonic marrow, after undergoing rapid division, arrange themselves as an epithelioid layer on the surface of the wall of the space (fig. 34). This layer of osteoblasts forms a bony stratum, and thus the wall of the space becomes gradually covered with a layer of true osseous substance. On this Fig. 35.—Vertical section from the edge of the ossifying portion of the diaphysis of a mstatarsal bone from a foetal calf. (After Miiller.) Fig. -Transverse section from the femur of a human embryo about eleven weeks old. :. A medullary sinus cut transversely ; and h, another longitudinally, c. Osteoblasts. (/. Newly formed osseous substance of a lighter colour, e. That of greater age. /. Lacunte with their cells, g. A cell still united to an osteoblast. a. Grouud-mass of the cartilage, h. Of the bone. c. Newly formed bone-cells in profile, more or less embedded in intercellular substance, d. Medullary canal in process of formation, with vessels and medullary cells, e, f. Bone-cells ou their broad aspect. (/. Cartilage-capsules arranged in rows, and partly with shrunlien cell-bodies. a second layer of osteoblasts arrange themselves, and in their turn form an osseous layer. By the repetition of this process the original cavity becomes very much reduced in size, and at last only remains as a small circular hole in the centre, containing the remains of the embryonic marrow—that is, a blood-vessel and a few osteoblasts. This small cavity constitutes the Haversian canal of the perfectly ossified bone. The successive layers of osseous matter which have been laid down and which encircle this central canal, constitute the lamellae of which, as we have seen, each Haversian system is made up. As the successive layers of osteoblasts form osseous tissue, certain of the osteoblastic cells remain included between the various bony layers. These continue persistent and remain as the corpuscles of the future bone, the spaces enclosing them forming the lacunas (fig. 34). The mode of the formation of the canaliculi is not known. Such are the changes which may be observed at one particular point, the centre