996 THE URINAEY ORGANS Fig. 586. portion ; and of an internal part, the medullary portion, made up of a number of dark-coloured pyramidal masses, with their bases resting on the cortical part, and their apices converging towards the centre, where they form prominent papillag, which project into the interior of the calices. The cortical substance is of a bright reddish-brown colour, soft, granular, and easily lacerable. It is found everywhere immediately beneath the capsule, and is seen to extend in an arched form over the base of each medullary pyramid. The part separating the sides of any two pyramids through which the arteries and nerves enter, and the veins and lymphatics emerge from the kidney, is called a cortical column or column of Bertini (a a', fig. 585) ; whilst that portion which stretches from one cortical column to the next, and intervenes between the base of the pyramid and the capsule (which is marked by the dotted line, extending from A to a' in fig. 585), is called a cortical arch, the depth of which varies from a third to half an inch. The medullary substance, as before said, is seen to consist of pale red-coloured, striated, conical masses, the pyramids of Malpighi ; the num'ber af which, varying from eight to eighteen, correspond to the number of lobes of which the organ in the foetal state is composed. The base of each pyramid is surrounded by a cortical arch and directed towards the circumference of the kidney ; the sides are contigu- ous with the cortical columns ; whilst the apex, known as the papilla or mammilla of the kidney, projects into one of the calices of the ureter. v-N-OvO^ ~ I I ^ These two parts, cortical and medullary, so "^"'"'^ dissimilar in appearance, are very similar in structure, being made up of urinary tubes and blood-vessels, united and bound together by a connecting matrix or stroma. Minute Anatomy.—The tubuli urinijeri, of which the kidney is for the most part made up, commence in the cortical portion of the kidney, and, after pursuing a very circuitous course through the cortical and medullary parts of the kidney, finally terminate at the apices of the Malpighian pyramids by open mouths (fig. 586), so that the fluid which they contain is emptied into the dilated extremity of the ureter con- tained in the sinus of the kidney. If the surface of one of the papillae is examined with a lens, it will be seen to be studded over with a number of small depressions from sixteen to twenty in number, and in a fresh kidney, upon pressure being made, fluid will be seen to exude from these depressions. They are the orifices of the tubuli uriniferi, which terminate in this situa- tion. They commence in the cortical portion of the kidney as the Maipigiiian bodies, which are small rounded masses, varying in size, but of an average of about of an inch in dia- meter. They are of a deep red colour, and are found only in the cortical portion of the kidney. Each of these little bodies is composed of two parts : a central glomerulus of vessels, called a Malpighian tuft; and a membranous emelo^Q, Malpighian capsule, or capsule of Boumian, which latter is a small pouch-like commencement of a uriniferous tubule. The Malpighian tuft, or vascular glomerulus, is a network of convoluted capillary blood-vessels, held together by scanty connective tissue and grouped into B. Margin of me- Loops of Henle. A A. Malpighian bodies, dullary structure, c c c. D D D. Straight tubes cut off. E. Com- mencing straight tubes. F. Termination of straight tube.