THE AETICULATIONS THE various bones of which the Skeleton consists are connected together at different parts of their surfaces, and such a connection is designated by the name of Joint or Articulation. If the joint is immovable, as between the cranial and most of the facial bones, the adjacent margins of the bones are applied in almost close contact, a thin layer of fibrous membrane, the sutural ligament, and, at the base of the skull, in certain situations, a thin layer of cartilage being interposed. Where slight movement is required, combined with great strength, the osseous surfaces are united by tough and elastic fibro-cartilages, as in the joints of the spine, the sacro-iliac and interpubic articulations ; but in the movable joints, the bones forming the articulation are generally expanded for greater convenience of mutual connection, covered by cartilage, held together by strong bands or capsules of fibrous tissue, called ligaments, and partially lined by a membrane, the synovial membrane, which secretes a fluid to lubricate the various parts of which the joint is formed : so that the structures which enter into the formation of a joint are bone, cartilage, fibro-cartilage, ligament, and synovial membrane. Bone constitutes the fundamental element of all the joints. In the long bones, the extremities are the parts which form the articulations ; they are generally somewhat enlarged, consisting of spongy cancellous tissue, with a thin coating of compact substance. In the flat bones, the articulations usually take place at the edges ; and, in the short bones, at various parts of their surface. The layer of compact bone which forms the articular surface, and to which the cartilage is attached, is called the articular lamella. It is of a white colour, extremely dense, and varies in thickness. Its structure differs from ordinary bone-tissue in this respect, that it contains no Haversian canals, and its lacunae are much larger than in ordinary bone, and have no canaliculi. The vessels of the cancellous tissue, as they approach the articular lamella, turn back in loops, and do not perforate it; this layer is consequently more dense and firmer than ordinary bone, and is evidently designed to form a firm and unyielding support for the articular cartilage. The cartilage, which covers the articular surfaces of bone, and is called artic- ular, will be found described, with the other varieties of cartilage, in the section on General Anatomy (page 19). Ligaments consist of bands of various forms, serving to connect together the articular extremities of bones, and composed mainly of bundles of lohite fibrous tissue placed parallel with, or closely interlaced with, one another, and presenting a white, shining silvery aspect. A ligament is pliant and flexible, so as to allow of the most perfect freedom of movement, but strong, tough, and inextensile, so as not readily to yield under the most severely applied force ; it is consequently well adapted to serve as the connecting medium between the bones. Some ligaments consist entirely of yelloiu elastic tissue, as the ligamenta subflava, which connect together the adjacent arches of the vertebrae, and the ligamentum nuchae in the lower animals. In these cases it will be observed that the elasticity of the ligament is intended to act as a substitute for muscular power. Synovial membrane is a thin, delicate membrane of connective tissue, with branched connective-tissue corpuscles. Its secretion is thick, viscid, and glairy, like the white of egg ; and is hence termed synovia. The synovial membranes found in the body admit of subdivision into three kinds—articular, bursal, and vaginal. The articular synovial membranes are found in all the freely movable joints. In the foetus this membrane is said, by Toynbee, to be continued over the surface