SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE 163 hollowed out of the body of the maxillary bone : its apex, directed outwards, is formed by the malar process ; its base, by the outer wall of the nose. Its walls are everywhere exceedingly thin, and correspond to the orbital, facial, and zygomatic surfaces of the body of the bone. Its inner wall, or base, presents, in the dis- articulated bone, a large, irregular aperture, which communicates with the nasal fossa. The margins of this aperture are thin and ragged, and the aperture itself is much contracted by its articulation with the ethmoid above, the inferior turbinated below, and the palate-bone behind.* In the articulated skull, this cavity com- municates with the middle meatus of the nasal fossae, generally by two small aper- tures left between the above-mentioned bones. In the recent state, usually only one small opening exists, near the upper part of the cavity, sufficiently large to admit the end of a probe, the other being closed by the lining membrane of the sinus. Crossing the cavity of the antrum are often seen several projecting laminae of bone, similar to those seen in the sinuses of the cranium; and on its posterior wall are the posterior dental canals, transmitting the posterior dental vessels and nerves to the teeth. Projecting into the floor are several conical processes, corresponding to the roots of the first and second molar teeth ; j in some cases the floor is perforated by the teeth in this situation. It is from the extreme thinness of the walls of this cavity that we are enabled to explain how a tumour growing from the antrum encroaches upon the adjacent parts, pushing up the floor of the orbit, and displacinof the eyeball, projecting inwards into the nose, protruding forwards on to the cheek, and making its way backwards into the zygo- matic fossa, and downwards into the mouth. The Malar Process is a rough, triangular eminence, situated at the angle of separation of the facial from the zygomatic surface. In front it is concave, forming part of the facial surface; behind, it is also concave, and forms part of the zygo- matic fossa ; above, it is rough and serrated for articulation with the malar bone ; whilst below, a prominent ridge marks the division between the facial and zygo- matic surfaces. A small part of the Masseter muscle arises from this process. The Nasal Process is a thick, triangular plate of bone, which projects upwards, inwards, and backwards, by the side of the nose, forming part of its lateral boundary. Its external surface is concave, smooth, perforated by numerous foramina, and gives attachment to the Levator labii superioris al^eque nasi, the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and Tendo oculi. Its internal surface forms part of the outer wall of the nose : at its upper part it presents a rough, uneven surface, which articulates with the ethmoid bone, closing in the anterior ethmoidal cells ; below this is a transverse ridge, the superior tnrhinated crest, for articulation with the middle turbinated bone of the ethmoid, bounded below by a smooth concavity which forms part of the middle meatus ; below this again is the inferior turbinated crest (already described), where the process joins the body of the bone. Its upper border articulates with the frontal bone. The anterior border of the nasal process is thin, directed obliquely downwards and forwards, and presents a serrated edge for articulation with the nasal bone ; its ijosterior border is thick, and hollowed into a groove, the lachrymal groove, for the nasal duct: of the two margins of this groove, the inner one articulates with the lachrymal bone, the outer one forms part of the circumference of the orbit. Just where the latter joins the orbital surface is a small tubercle, the lachrymal tubercle ; this serves as a guide to the position of the lachrymal sac in the operation for fistula lachrymalis. The lachrymal groove in the articulated skull is converted into a canal by the lachrymal bone and lachrymal process of the inferior turbinated ; it is directed downwards, and a little backwards and outwards, is about the diameter of a goose-quill, slightly * In some cases, at any rate, the lachrymal bone encroaches slightlj^ on the anterior superior portion of the opening, and assists in forming the inner wall of the antrum. t The number of teeth whose fangs are in relation with the floor of the antrum is variable. The antrum ' may extend so as to be in relation to all the teeth of the true maxilla, from the canine to the dens sapientice.'—See Mr. Salter on Abscess of the Antrum, in a System of Surgery, edited by T. Hohues, 2nd edit. vol. iv. p. 356. M 2