THE STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEYS 999 tubule of SchacJioica. 4. It enters the medullary structure as a narrow, straight tube, the descending limb of Henle's loop. 5. Forming a loop and becoming dilated, it ascends, somewhat spirally and, gradually diminishing in calibre, * again enters the cortical structure, the ascending limb of Henle's loop. 6. It now becomes irregular and angular in outline, the irregular tubule. 7. It then becomes convoluted, the distal convoluted tubule. 8. Diminishing in size, it forms a curve, the curved t^tbule. 9. Finally it joins a straight tube, the straight collecting tube, which is continued downwards through the medullary substance to open at the apex of a pyramid. The Tubuli Uriniferi: their Structure.—The tubuli uriniferi consist of base- ment membrane lined with epithelium. The epithelium varies considerably in different sections of the uriniferous tabes. In the neck the epithelium is con- tinuous with that lining the Malpighian capsule, and like it consists of flattened cells with an oval nucleus (fig. 589, a). The cells are, however, very indistinct and difficult to trace, and the tube has here the appearance of a simple basement membrane unlined by epithelium. In the proximal convoluted tubule and the spiral tubule of Schachowa the epithelium is polyhedral in shape, the sides of the cells not being straight, but fitting into each other, and in some animals so fused Fig. 590.*—Longitudinal section of Fig. 591.—Longitudinal section of Henle's descending Innb. straight tube. a. Membrana propria. h. Epithelium. a. Cylindrical or cubical epithelium. h. Membrana propria. together that it is impossible to make out the lines of junction. In the human kidney the cells often present an angular projection of the surface next the base- ment membrane. These cells are made up of more or less rod-like fibres, which rest by one extremity on the basement membrane, whilst the other projects towards the lumen of the tube. This gives to the cells the appearance of distinct striation (Heidenhain) (fig. 589, b). In the descending limb of Henle's loop the epithelium resembles that found in the Malpighian capsule and the commencement of the tube, consisting of flat transparent epithelial plates, with an oval nucleus (figs. 589, a ; 590). In the ascending limb, on the other hand, the cells partake more of the character of those described as existing in the proximal convoluted tubule, being polyhedral in shape, and presenting the same appearance of striation. The nucleus, however, is not situated in the centre of the cell, but near the lumen (iig. 589, c). After the ascending limb of Henle's loop becomes narrower upon entering the cortical structure, the striation appears to be confined to the outer part of the cell; at all events it is much more distinct in this situation; the nucleus, which appears flattened and angular, being still situated near the lumen (fig. 589, d). In the irregular tubule, the cells undergo a still further change, becoming very angular, From the HandhooTi for the Physiological Laboratory.