ARTERIES 552 The arteria centralis retinae is one of the smallest branches of the ophthalmic artery. It arises from the ophthalmic as that vessel is about to cross over the optic nerve; it pierces the optic nerve obliquely, and runs forward in the centre of its substance, and enters the globe of the eye through the porus opticus. Its mode of distribution will be described in the account of the anatomy of the eye. The muscular branches, two in number, superior and inferior, supply the muscles of the eyeball. The superior, the smaller, often wanting, supplies the Levator palpebrje, Superior rectus, and Superior oblique. The inferior, more constant in its existence, passes forwards, between the optic nerve and Inferior rectus, and is distributed to the External, Internal, and Inferior recti, and Inferior oblique. This vessel gives off most of the anterior ciliary arteries. The cerebral branches of the internal carotid are : the anterior cerebral, the middle cerebral, the posterior communicating, and the anterior choroid. The anterior cerebral arises from the internal carotid, at the inner extremity of Fig. 355.—Vascular arese of the internal surface of the cerebrum. (After Charcot.) FISSaf?E OF ROLftNDO The regions marked off by the line ( ) represent the area of distribution of the anterior cerebral artery. I. Anterior and internal frontal arteries. 11. Middle and internal frontal arteries, iii. Posterior and internal frontal arteries. The regions marked off the line ( ) represent the area of distribution of the posterior cerebral arteries : iv. to the temporo-sphenoidal lobe; v. to the cuneus and occipital lobe; a third branch supplies the uncinate gyrus. the fissure of Sylvius. It passes forwards in the great longitudinal fissure between the two anterior lobes of the brain, being connected, soon after its origin, with the vessel of the opposite side by a short anastomosing trunk, about two lines in length, the anterior communicating. The two anterior cerebral arteries, lying side by side, curve round the anterior border of the corpus callosum, and run along its upper surface to its posterior part, where they terminate by anastomosing with the posterior cerebral arteries. In their course they give off the following branches :— Antero-median Ganglionic. Middle and Internal Frontal. Anterior and Internal Frontal. Posterior and Internal Frontal. The antero-median ganglionic is a group of small arteries which arise at the commencement of the anterior cerebral artery ; they pierce the anterior perforated space and lamina cinerea, and supply the head of the caudate nucleus. The anterior and internal frontal branches supply the two inferior frontal convolutions. The middle and internal frontal branches supply the corpus