DIAPHKAGM -^^1^^ 4^3 continuous with the outer side of the tendon of the corresponding crus; and, by the other end, to the front of the transverse process of the first and sometimes also to that of the second, lumbar vertebra. The ligamentum arcuatum externum is the thickened upper margin of the ante- rior lamella of the lumbar fascia ; it arches across the upper part of the Quadratus lumborum, being attached, by one extremity, to the front of the transverse process of the first lum.bar vertebra; and, by the other, to the apex and lower margin of the last rib. The Crura.—The Diaphragm is connected to the spine by two crura pillars, which are situated on the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, on each side of the aorta. The crura, at their origin, are tendinous in structure ; the right crus, larger and longer than the left, arising from the anterior surface of the bodies and inter- vertebral substances of the three or four upper lumbar vertebra ; the left, from the two upper; both blending with the anterior common ligament of the spine. These tendinous portions of the crura pass forwards and inwards and gradually converge to meet in the middle line, forming an arch, beneath which passes the aorta, vena azygos major, and thoracic duct. From this tendinous arch muscular fibres arise, which diverge, the outermost portion being directed upwards and outwards to the central tendon ; the innermost decussating in front of the aorta, and then diverging, so as to surround the oesophagus before ending in the central tendon. The fibres derived from the right crus are the most numerous and pass in front of those derived from the left. The Ce7itral or Gordiform Tendon of the Diaphragm is a thin but strong- tendinous aponeurosis, situated at the centre of the vault formed by the muscle, immediately below the pericardium, with which its circumference is blended. It is shaped somewhat like a trefoil leaf, consisting of three divisions, or leaflets, separated from one another by slight indentations. The right leaflet is the largest: the middle one, directed towards the ensiform cartilage, the next in size ; and the left, the smallest. In structure, the tendon is composed of several planes of fibres, which intersect one another at various angles, and unite into straight or curved bundles—an arrangement which affords it additional strength. The Openings connected with the Diaphragm are three large and several smaller apertures. The former are the aortic, the oesophageal, and the opening for the vena cava. The aortic opening is the lowest and the most posterior of the three large aper- tures connected with this muscle. It is situated in the middle line, immediately in front of the bodies of the vertebrae ; and is, therefore, behind the Diaphragm, not in it. It is an osseo-aponeurotic aperture, formed by a tendinous arch thrown across the front of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the crus on one side to that on the other, and transmits the aorta, vena azygos major, thoracic duct, and sometimes the left sympathetic nerve. Occasionally some tendinous fibres are prolonged across the bodies of the vertebrae from the inner part of the lower end of the crura, passing behind the aorta, and thus converting the opening into a fibrous ring. The oesophageal opening, elliptical in form, muscular in structure, and formed by the two crura, is placed above, and, at the same time, anterior, and a little to the left of the preceding. It transmits the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves. The anterior margin of this aperture is occasionally tendinous, being formed by the margin of the central tendon. The opening for the vena cava (foramen quadratum) is the highest; it is quadri- lateral in form, tendinous in structure, and placed at the junction of the right and middle leaflets of the central tendon, its margins being bounded by four bundles of tendinous fibres, which meet at right angles. The right cms transmits the sympathetic and the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves of the right side; the left crus, the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves of the left side, and the vena azygos minor. The Serous Membranes in relation with the Diaphragm are four in number: