PUDIC 803 lower one nearly horizontally, and they all unite into a single, broad, flat cord. The sacral i^lexus is triangular in form, its base col-responding with the exit of the nerves from the sacrum, its apex with the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It rests upon the anterior surface of the Pyriformis, and is covered in front by the pelvic fascia, which separates it from the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery, and from the viscera of the pelvis. The branches of the sacral plexus are :— The muscular branches supply the Pyriformis, Obturator internus, the two Gemelli, and the Quadratus femoris. The branch to the Pyriformis arises either from the plexus, or from the upper sacral nerves before they enter the plexus ; the branch to the Obturator internus arises at the junction of the lumbo-sacral and first sacral nerves : it passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen to the inner surface of the Obturator internus; the branch to the Gemellus superior arises in common with the nerve to the Obturator internus : it enters the muscle at the upper part of its posterior surface ; the small branch to the Gemellus inferior and Quadratus femoris also arises from the upper part of the plexus : it passes through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and courses down beneath the Gemelli and tendon of the Obturator internus, and supplies the muscles on their deep or anterior surface. It gives off an articular branch to the hip-joint. This articular branch is occasionally derived from the upper part of the great sciatic nerve. The Superior Gluteal Nerve (fig. 471) arises from the back part of the lumbo- sacral cord, with some filaments from the first sacral nerve; it passes from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen above the Pyriformis muscle, accompanied by the gluteal vessels, and divides into a superior and an inferior branch. The superior branch follows the line of origin of the Gluteus minimus, and supplies the Gluteus medius. The inferior branch crosses obliquely between the Gluteus minimus and medius, distributing filaments to both these muscles, and terminates in the Tensor vaginae femoris, extending nearly to its lower end. The Inferior Gluteal arises from the lumbo-sacral cord, and first and second sacral nerves, and is intimately connected with the small sciatic at its origin. It passes out of the pelvis through the great sciatic notch, beneath the Pyriformis muscle, and dividing into a number of branches enters the Gluteus maximus muscle on its under surface. It gives off a cutaneous branch, which winds round the lower border of the Gluteus maximus muscle to supply the skin of the buttock. It is said also to give an articular branch to the hip-joint. The Pudic Nerve arises from the lower part of the sacral plexus, and leaves the pelvis, through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the Pyriformis. It then crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sacro- sciatic foramen. It accompanies the pudic vessels upwards and forwards along the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, being contained in a sheath of the obturator fascia, and divides into two terminal branches, the perineal nerve, and the dorsal nerve of the penis. Before its division, it gives off the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve. The inferior hcBmorrhoiclal nerve is occasionally derived separately from the sacral plexus. It passes across the ischio-rectal fossa, with its accompanying vessels, towards the lower end of the rectum, and is distributed to the integument round the anus. Branches of this nerve communicate with the inferior pudendal and superficial perineal nerves at the fore part of the perinaeum. The perineal nerve, the inferior and larger of the two terminal branches of the Muscular. Superior gluteal. Inferior gluteal. Pudic. Small sciatic. Great sciatic. 3 F 2