8o GENERAL ANATOMY separated from the inner layer of the mesoblast and hypoblast by the formation of the plem'o-peritoneal cavity, takes place (fig. 79, d 7). These inflections or back- ward folds commence first at the cephalic extremity, and subsequently at the caudal end and sides, and deepen more and more, in consequence of the sinking of the embryo into the blastodermic vesicle, until, gradually approaching, they meet one another (fig. 79, e 7). After they come in contact they fuse together, and the septum between them disappears; so that the inner layer of the cephalic fold becomes Fig. 86.—Diagram of a transverse section of a mammalian embryo, showing the mode of formation of the amnion. The amniotic folds have nearly united in the middle line. (From Quain's ' Anatomy,' vol. i. pt. i. 1890.) Epiblast, blue ; mesoblast, red ; hypoblast and iiotochord, black. continuous with the inner layer of the caudal fold, and the outer with the outer (fig. 79, F 7'). ■ Thus we have two membranes, one formed by the inner layer of the fold—the true amnion—which encloses a space over the back of the embryo—the amniotic cavity (fig. 79, f and g, a)—containing a clear fluid, the liquor amnii* The other, the outer layer of the fold—the false amnion—lines the internal surface of the origmal vitelline membrane. Between the two is an interval, which of course communicates with the pleuro-peritoneal cavity. This it continues to do until the body-walls of the embryo have grown up and coalesced at the umbilicus. Then the amniotic fold is carried downwards, and encloses the umbilical cord, by which the foetus is attached to the placenta. The true amnion—or, as it is usually called, the amnion—is formed of two layers, derived respectively from the epiblast and from the parietal layer of the mesoblast. The one from the epiblast consists of nucleated cells ; the other, from the mesoblast, has a fibrous and, according to some embryologists, a muscular structure ; at all events, it possesses the power of rhythmic contraction during life. In some animals this layer is vascular. The amnion is at first in close contact with the surface of the body of the embryo, but about the fourth or fifth week fluid begins to accumulate, and thus separates the two. The quantity steadily increases up to about the sixth month of pregnancy, after which it diminishes somewhat. The use of the liquor amnii is believed to be chiefly to allow of the movements of the foetus in the later stages of * The student should be careful not to confound this cavity witii that formed between the true and false amnion, which communicates with the pleuro-peritoneal cavity of the embryo. This latter space ought with more propriety to be called the ' amniotic cavity,' since it is contained between the laj-ers of the amnion; whereas the so-called amniotic cavity is not really between the layers of the amnion at all, but between the inner layer of the amnion and the body of the embryo.