945 THE SPLEEN are given off from the inner surface of the capsule, or from the sheaths prolonged inwards on the blood-vessels. And in these spaces or areolje is contained the splenic pulp. The proper coat, the sheaths of the vessels and the trabeculae, consist of a dense mesh of white and yellow elastic fibrous tissues, the latter considerably predominating. It is owing to the presence of this tissue that the spleen possesses a considerable amount of elasticity, which allows of the very great variations in size that it presents under certain circumstances. In addition to these constituents of this tunic, there is found in man a small amount of non-striped muscular fibre ; and in some mammalia (e.g. dog, pig, and cat) a very considerable amount, so that the trabecul^e appear to consist chiefly of muscular tissue. It is probably owing to this structure that the spleen exhibits, when acted upon by the galvanic current, faint traces of contractility. The proper substance of the sjoleen or spleen pulp is a soft mass of a dark reddish-brown colour, resembling grumous blood. When examined, by means of a thin section, under the microscope, it is found to consist of a number of branching cells, and of an intercellular substance. The cells are connective-tissue corpuscles, Fig. 5 56.—Transverse section of the spleen, showing the trabecular tissue and the splenic vein and its branches. and have been named the sustentacular or supporting cells of the pulp. The processes of these branching cells communicate with each other, thus forming a delicate reticulated tissue in the interior of the areolae formed by the trabecul^e of the capsule. So that each primary space may be considered to be divided into a number of smaller spaces by the junction of these processes of the branchmg corpuscles. These secondary spaces contain blood, in which, however, the white corpuscles are found to be in larger proportions than they are in ordinary blood. The sustentacular cells are either small, uni-nucleated, or larger, multi-nucleated cells ; they do not become deeply stained with carmine, like the cells of the Malpighian bodies, presently to he described (W. Miiller), but like them they possess amoeboid movements (Cohnheim). In many of them may be seen deep red or reddish-yellow granules of various sizes, which present the characters of the haematin of the blood. Sometimes, also, unchanged blood-discs are seen included in these cells, but more frequently blood-discs are found which are altered both in form and colour. In fact, blood-corpuscles in all stages of disintegration may be noticed to occur within them. Klein has recently pointed out that sometimes these cells, in the young spleen, contain a proliferating nucleus ; that is to say, the 3P