23 BONE of two layers closely united together, the outer one formed chiefly of connective tissue, containing occasionally a few fat-cells ; the inner one, of elastic fibres of the finer kind, forming dense membranous networks, which can be again separated into several layers. In young bones the periosteum is thick, and very vascular, and is intimately connected at either end of the bone with the epiphysial cartilage, but less closely with the shaft, from which it is separated by a layer of soft blas- tema, containing a number of granular corpuscles or ' osteoblasts,' in which ossification proceeds on the exterior of the young bone. Later in life the peri- osteum is thinner, less vascular, and the osteoblasts have become converted into an epithelial layer, which is separated from the rest of the periosteum in many places by cleft-like spaces, which are supposed to serve for the transmission of lymph. The periosteum serves as a nidus for the ramification of the vessels previous to their distribution in the bone; hence the liability of bone to exfoliation or necrosis, when denuded of this membrane by injury or disease. Fine nerves and lymphatics, which generally accompany the arteries, may also be demonstrated in the periosteum. The marrow not only fills up the cylindrical cavity in the shafts of the long bones, but also occupies the spaces of the cancellous tissue and extends into the larger bony canals (Haversian canals) which contain the blood-vessels. It differs in composition in different bones. In the shafts of adult long bones the marrow is of a yellow colour, and contains, in 100 parts, 96 of fat, i of areolar tissue and vessels, and 3 of fluid, with extractive matter, and consists of a matrix of fibrous tissue, supporting numerous blood-vessels and cells, most of which are fat-cells, but some few are ' marrow-cells.' In the flat and short bones, in the articular ends of the long bones, in the bodies of the vertebrae, in the cranial diploe, and in the sternum and ribs, it is of a red colour, and contains, in 100 parts, 75 of water and 25 of solid matter, consisting of albumen, fibrin, extractive matter, salts, and a mere trace of fat. The red marrow consists of a small quantity of areolar tissue, blood-vessels, and numerous cells, some few of which are fat-cells, but the great majority roundish nucleated cells, the true ' marrow-cells ' of Kolliker. These marrow-cells resemble in appearance the white corpuscles of the blood, though they are larger and have a relatively larger nucleus and a clearer protoplasm, but, like them, possess amoeboid movements. Amongst them may be seen smaller cells, which possess a slightly pinkish hue; and it has been stated by Neumann that they are then in a transitional stage between marrow-cells and red blood-corpuscles, and that one of the sources of blood-globules is the marrow of the spongy bones. Giant-cells (inyelo-plaques, osteoclasts), large, multi-nucleated, protoplasmic masses, are also to be found in both sorts of adult marrow, but more particularly in red marrow. They were believed by Kolliker to be concerned in the absorption of bone-matrix, and hence the name which he gave to them—osteoclasts. They excavate small shallow pits or cavities, which are named Hoivship's lacunce, in which they are found lying. Vessels of Bone.—-The blood-vessels of bone are very numerous. Those of the compact tissue are derived from a close and dense network of vessels ramifying in the periosteum. From this membrane, vessels pass into the minute orifices in the compact tissue, running through the canals which traverse its substance. The cancellous tissue is supplied in a similar way, but by a less numerous set of larger vessels, which, perforating the outer compact tissue, are distributed to the cavities of the spongy portion of the bone. In the long bones, numerous apertures may be seen at the ends near the articular surfaces, some of which give passage to the arteries of the larger set of vessels referred to ; but the most numerous and largest apertures are for the veins of the cancellous tissue, which run separately from the arteries. The medullary canal in the shafts of the long bones is supplied by one large artery (or sometimes more), which enters the bone at the nutrient foramen (situated in most cases near the centre of the shaft), and perforates obliquely the compact structure. The medullary or nutrient artery, usually accompanied by one or two veins, sends branches upwards and downwards, to supply the medullary