927 STRUCTURE OF LARGE INTESTINE the serous membrane. The ascending and descending colon are usually covered only in front.* The transverse colon is almost completely invested, the parts corresponding to the attachment of the great omentum and transverse meso-colon being alone excepted. The sigmoid flexure is nearly completely surrounded, the point corresponding to the attachment of the sigmoid meso-colon being excepted. The upper part of the rectum is almost completely invested by the peritoneum ; the middle portion is covered only on its anterior surface; and the lower portion is entirely devoid of any serous covering. In the course of the colon and upper part of the rectum, the peritoneal coat is thrown into a number of small pouches filled with fat, called appendices epiploicce. They are chiefly appended to the transverse colon. The muscular coat consists of an external longitudinal and an internal circular layer of muscular fibres. The longitudinal fibres, although found to a certain extent all round the intes- tine, do not form a uniform layer over the whole surface of the large intestine. In the caecum and colon they are especially collected into three flat longitudinal ba,nds, each being about half an inch in width. These bands commence at the attachment of the appendix vermiformis to the caecum : one, the posterior, is placed along the Fig. 545.—Minute structure of large intestine. Solitary gland attached border of the intestine ; the anterior band, the largest, corresponds along the arch of the colon to the attachment of the great omentum, but is in front in the ascending and descending colon and sigmoid flexure ; the third, or lateral band, is found on the inner side of the ascending and descending colon, and on the under border of the transverse colon. These bands are nearly one-half shorter than the other parts of the intestine, and serve to produce the sacculi which are characteristic of the caecum and colon ; accordingly, when they are dissected off, the tube can be lengthened, and its sacculated character becomes lost. In the sigmoid flexure the longitudinal fibres become more scattered; but upon its lower part, and rocind the rectum, they spread out and form a thick uniform layer. The circular fibres form a thin layer over the caecum and colon, being especially accumulated in the intervals between the sacculi; in the rectum they form a thick layer, especially at its lower end, where they become numerous, and form the Internal sphincter. The areolar coat connects the muscular and mucous layers closely together. The mucous membrane, in the ctecum and colon, is pale, and of a greyish or pale yellow colour. It is quite smooth, destitute of villi, and raised into numerous cres- centic folds which correspond to the intervals between the sacculi. In the rectum it is thicker, of a darker colour, more vascular, and connected loosely to the muscular * See foot-note, p. 923.