DEVELOPMENT OF THE OKGANS OF GENERATION continuous, though it still remains connected to the remnant of this body by a fold of peritoneum, the jnesorcJmim or mesovarium. About the seventh week the distinction of sex begins to be perceptible. The epithelium on the genital ridge, which is called ' germ-epithelium,' in the female becomes distinctly columnar, multiplies rapidly, and begins to form iwimitive ova, in a manner presently to be described; whereas in the male, though the germ-epithelium has a tendency to become columnar, the cells are, on the whole, flatter and smaller than in the female. Development of Male Organs.—The tubuli seminiferi of the testicle appear it an early period. It is believed that they are formed by the extension of epithelial 3ells on the surface of the genital ridge, into its blastema ; rows of cells are thus developed which become the lining cells of the seminal ducts. In some animals 'e.g. reptiles) the segmental tubes of the Wolffian body have been found to extend nto the body of the testis, and to form the tubes of this organ, which become ined with cells derived from the germ-epithelium, and it is probable that a similar brocess takes place in birds and mammals. The Miillerian ducts disappear in the male sex, with the exception of their ower ends. These unite in the middle line, and open by a common orifice into ihe urogenital sinus. This constitutes the utriculus hofuinis or sinus prostaticus. bccasionally, however, the upper end of the duct of Miiller remains visible in the pale, constituting the little pedunculated body, called the hydatid of Morgagni, [lometimes found in the neighbourhood of the epididymis,* between the testes and pobus major. \ The head of the epididymis, its canal, the vas deferens and ejaculatory duct, ire formed from the canals and duct of the Wolffian body. One or more of the lubes of the Wolffian body form the vas aberrans and a structure described by jiraldes, and called, after him, 'the organ of Giraldes,' which bears a good deal )f resemblance to the organ of Rosenmiiller. in the other sex. It consists of a lumber of convoluted tubules, lying in the cellular tissue in front of the cord, and ilose to the head of the epididymis. j The descent of the testis and the formation of the gubernaculum are described n the body of the work. Development of Female Organs.—The ovary, as above stated, is formed from ihe genital ridge, which becomes pinched off from the remains of the Wolffian |)ody, but is still attached by a mesovarium. It consists of a central part of con- lective tissue covered by a layer of germ-epithelium, from which the ova are developed. This epithelium undergoes repeated division, so that it rapidly increases u thickness and forms several layers. Next certain of the cells become enlarged -nd spherical, and form what are called the prwiitive ova. Around these, other pithelial cells have a tendency to arrange themselves, so as to enclose the ovum a a follicle. The permanent ova, enclosed in their Graafian follicles, are thus ormed. The Fallopian tube is developed from that portion of the duct of Miiller /hich lies above the lumbar ligament of the AVolffian body. This duct is at irst completely closed at its upper extremity, and its closed extremity remains 'Brmanent, forming a small cystic body attached to the fimbriated end of the 'allopian tube, and called the ' hydatid of Morgagni.' Below this a cleft forms a the duct, and is developed into the fimbriated opening of the Fallopian tube. BeloAv this the duct of Miiller and the ducts of the Wolffian bodies are united jogether in a structure called ' the genital cord,' in which the two Miillerian ducts Ipproach each other, lying side by side, and finally coalesce to form the cavity of tie vagina and uterus. This coalescence commences in the middle of the genital ord, and corresponds to the body of the uterus. The upper parts of the Miillerian jucts in the genital cord constitute the cornua of the uterus, little developed in the Mr. Osborn, in the St. Thomas's Hospital Eeports, 1875, has written an interesting aper pointing out the probable connection between this foetal structure and one form of ydrocele.