MUSCLES AND FASCIA 482 First Layer Abductor liallucis. Plantar Begion Till I'd Layer Flexor brevis hallucis. Flexor brevis digitorum. Abductor minimi digiti. Adductor obliquus hallucis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Adductor trans versus pedis. Second Layer. Flexor accessorius. Lumbricales. Fourth Layer The Interossei. Iliac Eegion Psoas magnus. Psoas parvus. Iliacus. D'issection.—No detailed description is required for the dissection of these muscles. On the removal of the viscera from the abdomen, they are exposed, covered by the peritoneum and a thin layer of fascia, the iliac fascia. The iliac fascia* is the aponeurotic layer which lines the back part of the abdominal cavity, and covers the Psoas and Iliacus muscles throughout their whole" extent. It is thin above, and becomes gradually thicker below as it approaches the crural arch. The i^ortion covering the Psoas is attached, above, to the ligamentum arcuatum internum ; internally, by a series of arched processes to the intervertebral substances, and prominent margins of the bodies of the vertebrae, and to the upper part of the sacrum ; the intervals so left, opposite the constricted portions of the bodies, transmitting the lumbar arteries and filaments of the sympathetic nerve. Ex- ternally, above the crest of the ilium, this portion of the iliac fascia is continuous with the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia (see page 410), but below the crest of the ilium it is continuous with the fascia covering the Iliacus. The portion, investing the Iliacus is connected, externally, to the whole length of the inner border of the crest of the ilium; and internally, to the brim of the true pelvis, where it is continuous with the periosteum, and at the ilio-pectineal eminence it receives the tendon of insertion of the Psoas parvus, when that muscle exists. External to the femoral vessels, this fascia is intimately connected to the posterior margin of Poupart's ligament, and is continuous with the fascia trans- versalis. Internal to the vessels it is attached to the ilio-pectineal line behind the conjoined tendon, where it is again continuous with the transversalis fascia ; and corresponding to the point where the femoral vessels pass into the thigh, this fascia descends behind them forming the posterior wall of the crural sheath. This portion of the iliac fascia which passes behind the femoral vessels is also attached to the ilio-pectineal line beyond the limits of the attachment of the conjoined tendon; at this part it is continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata of the thigh. The external iliac vessels lie in front of the iliac fascia, but all the branches of the lumbar plexus behind it; it is separated from the peritoneum by a quantity of loose areolar tissue. The Psoas magnus (fig. 326) is a long fusiform muscle, placed on the side of the lumbar region of the spine and margin of the pelvis. It arises from the front of the bases and lower borders of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae by five fleshy slips; also from the sides of the bodies, and the corresponding intervertebral substances of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrae. The muscle is connected to the bodies of the vertebrae by five slips ; each slip is attached to the upper and lower margins of two vertebrae, and to the intervertebral substance between them ; the slips themselves being connected by the tendinous arches which extend across the constricted part of the bodies, and beneath which pass the lumbar arteries and sympathetic nerves. These tendinous arches also give origin to muscular fibres, and protect the blood-vessels and nerves from pressure during the * The student must not confound this fascia with the iliac portion of the fascia lata (see p. 486).