MUSCLES AND FASCIA 400 Eustachian tube near its orifice ; it passes downwards and blends with the posterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus. Relations.—In the soft palate, its posterior surface is covered by mucous membrane, from which it is separated by a layer of palatine glands. By its anterior surface, it is in relation with the Tensor palati. Where it forms the posterior pillar of the fauces, it is covered by mucous membrane, excepting on its outer surface. In the pharynx it lies between the mucous membrane and the Constrictor muscles. In a dissection of the soft palate from its posterior or nasal surface to its anterior or oral surface, the muscles would be exposed in the following order: viz. the posterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus, covered over by the mucous membrane reflected from the floor of the nasal fossae ; the Azygos uvulae ; the Levator palati; the anterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus; the aponeurosis of the Tensor palati, and the Palato-glossus covered over by a reflection from the oral mucous membrane. Nerves.-—The Tensor palati is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion ; the remaining muscles of this group are in all probability supplied by the internal branch of the spinal accessory, whose fibres are distributed along with certain branches of the pneumogastric through the pharyngeal plexus.* Actions.—During the first stage of deglutition, the morsel of food is driven back into the fauces by the pressure of the tongue against the hard palate : the base of the tongue being, at the same time, retracted, and the larynx raised with the pharynx, and carried forwards under it. During the second stage, the epiglottis is pressed over the superior aperture of the larynx, and the morsel glides past it; then the Palato-glossi muscles, the constrictors of the fauces, contract behind the food; the soft palate is slightly raised by the Levator palati, and made tense by the Tensor palati; and the Palato-pharyngei, by their contraction, pull the pharynx upwards over the morsel of food, and at the same time come nearly together, the uvula filling up the slight interval between them. By these means the food is prevented passing into the upper part of the pharynx or the posterior nares ; at the same time, the latter muscles form an inclined plane, directed obliquely downwards and backwards, along the under surface of which the morsel descends into the lower part of the pharynx. The Salpingo-pharyngeus raises the upper and lateral part of the pharynx; i.e. that part which is above the point where the Stylo-|)haryngeus is attached to the pharynx. Surgical Anatomy.—The muscles of the soft palate should be carefully dissected, the relations they bear to the surrounding parts especially examined, and their action atten- tively studied upon the dead subject, as the surgeon is required to divide one or more of these muscles in the operation of staphyloraphy. Sir W. Fergusson was the first to show that in the congenital deficiency called cleft ^jo-Za/e, the edges of the fissure are forcibly separated by the action of the Le\'atores palati and Palato-pharyngei muscles, producing very considerable impediment to the healing process after the performance of the opera- tion for uniting their margins by adhesion; he, consequently, recommended the division of these muscles as one of the most important steps in the operation. This he effected by an incision made with a curved knife introduced behind the soft palate. The incision is to be half-way between the hamular process and Eustachian tube, and perpendicular to a line drawn between them. This incision perfectly accomplishes the division of the Levator palati. The Palato-pharyngeus may be divided by cutting across the posterior pillar of the soft palate, just below the tonsil, with a pair of blunt-pointed curved scissors ; and the anterior pillar may be divided also. To divide the Levator palati, the plan recommended by Mr. Pollock is to be greatly preferred. The soft palate being put upon the stretch, a double-edged knife is passed through it just on the inner side of the hamular process, and above the line of the Levator palati. The handle being now alternately raised and depressed, a sweeping cut is made along the posterior surface of the soft palate, and the knife withdrawn, leaving only a small opening in the mucous membrane on the anterior surface. If this operation is performed on the dead body, and the parts afterwards dis- sected, the Levator palati will be found completely divided. In the x)resent day, however, this division of the muscles, as part of the operation of staph^doraphy, is not so much insisted upon. All tension is prevented by making longitudinal incisions, on either side, Jcurnal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xxiii. p. 523.