86i THE TYMPANUM it leads into a canal {canal of Huguier)., which runs parallel with the Glaserian fissure. Through it the chorda tympani nerve leaves the tympanum. The internal wall of the tympanum (fig. 502) is vertical in direction, and looks directly outwards. It presents for examination the following parts :— Fenestra ovalis. Ridge of the aqueductus Fallopii. Fenestra rotunda. Pyramid. Promontory. Opening for the Stapedius. The fenestra ovalis is a reniform opening, leading from the tympanum into the vestibule; its long diameter is directed horizontally, and its convex border is upwards. The opening in the recent state is occupied by the base of the stapes, which is connected to the margin of the foramen by an annular ligament. The fenestra rotunda is an aperture placed at the bottom of a funnel-shaped depression leading into the cochlea. It is situated below and rather behind the fenestra ovalis, from which it is separated by a rounded elevation, the promontory ; it is closed in the recent state by a membrane [memhrana tympani secundaria, Scarpa). This membrane is concave towards the tympanum, convex towards the Fig, 502.—View of inner wall of tympanum. (Enlarged.) cochlea. It consists of three layers : the external, or mucous, derived from the mucous lining of the tympanum ; the internal, or serous, from the lining membrane of the cochlea ; and an intermediate, or fibrous layer. The promontory is a rounded hollow prominence, formed by the projection outwards of the first turn of the cochlea ; it is placed between the fenestrae, and is furrowed on its surface by three small grooves, which lodge branches of the tympanic plexus. The rounded eminence of the aqueductus Fallopii, the prominence of the bony canal in which the portio dura is contained, traverses the inner wall of the tym- panum above the fenestra ovalis, and behind that opening curves nearly vertically downwards along the posterior wall. The pyramid is a conical eminence, situated immediately behind the fenestra ovalis, and in front of the vertical portion of the eminence above described ; it is hollow in the interior, and contains the Stapedius muscle ; its summit projects forwards towards the fenestra ovalis, and presents a small aperture, which transmits the tendon of the muscle. The cavity in the pyramid is prolonged into a minute canal, which communicates with the aqueductus Fallopii, and transmits the nerve which supplies the Stapedius. The posterior wall of the tympanum is wider above than below, and presents for examination the Openings of the mastoid cells. These consist of one large irregular aperture, and several smaller openings,