277 NAVICULAR downwards and inwards, and transmits the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis, external to which is a prominent tubercle, to which the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament is attached. To the inner side of the groove is a second, but less marked tubercle. To ascertain to which foot the bone belongs, hold it with the broad articular surface upwards, and the rounded head forwards ; the lateral triangular articular surface for the external malleolus will then point to the side to which the bone belongs. A.rticulations.—With four bones : tibia, fibula, os calcis, and navicular. The Cuboid The Cuboid {kv/So'?, a cube; elSos, like) bone is placed on the outer side of the foot, in front of the os calcis, and behind the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. It is of a pyramidal shape, its base being directed upwards and inwards, its apex downwards and outwards. It may be distinguished from the other tarsal bones by the existence of a deep groove on its under surface, for the tendon of the Peroneus longus muscle. It presents for examination six surfaces : three articular, and three non-articular. The non-articular surfaces are the superior, inferior, and external. The superior or dorsal surface, directed upwards and outwards, is rough, for the attachment of numerous ligaments. The inferior or plantar surface presents in front a deep groove, which runs obliquely from without, forwards and inwards ; it lodges the tendon of the Peroneus longus, and is bounded behind by a prominent ridge, to which is attached the long calcaneo-cuboid ligament. The ridge termi- nates externally in an eminence, the tuberosity of the cuboid, the surface of which presents a convex facet, for articulation with the sesamoid bone of the tendon contained in the groove. The surface of bone behind the groove is rough, for the attachment of the short plantar ligament, a few fibres of the Flexor brevis hallucis and a fasciculus from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. The external surface, the smallest and narrowest of the three, presents a deep notch formed by the commence- ment of the peroneal groove. The articular surfaces are the posterior, anterior, and internal. The posterior surface is smooth, triangular, and concavo-convex, for articulation with the anterior surface of the os calcis. The anterior, of smaller size, but also irregularly trian- gular, is divided by a vertical ridge into two facets : the inner one, quadrilateral in form, articulates with the fourth metatarsal bone ; the outer one, larger and more triangular, articulates with the fifth metatarsal. The internal surface is broad, rough, irregularly quadrilateral, presenting at its middle and upper part a smooth oval facet, for articulation with the external cuneiform bone ; and behind this (occasionally) a smaller facet, for articulation with the navicular; it is rough in the rest of its extent, for the attachment of strong interosseous ligaments. To ascertain to which foot the bone belongs, hold it so that its under surface, marked by the peroneal groove, looks downwards, and the large concavo-convex articular surface backwards, towards the holder : the narrow non-articular surface, marked by the commencement of the peroneal groove, will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With four bones : the os calcis, external cuneiform, and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones ; occasionally with the navicular. Attachment of Muscles.—Part of the Flexor brevis hallucis and a slip from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. The Naviculae The Navicular or Scaphoid bone is situated at the inner side of the tarsus, between the astragalus behind and the three cuneiform bones in front. It may be distinguished by its form, being concave behind, convex and subdivided into three facets in front.