369 AURICULAE REGION The occipital portion, thin, quadrilateral in form, and about an inch and a half in length, arises from the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and from the mastoid portion of the temporal. Its fibres of origin are tendinous, but they soon become muscular, and ascend in a parallel direction to terminate in the tendinous aponeurosis. The frontal portion is thin, of a quadri- lateral form, and intimately adherent to the superficial fascia. It is broader, its fibres are longer, and their structure paler than the occipital portion. Its internal fibres are continuous with those of the Pyramidalis nasi. Its middle fibres become blended with the Corrugator supercilii and Orbicularis palpebrarum; and the outer fibres are also blended with the latter muscle over the external angular process. According to Theile the innermost fibres are attached to the nasal bones, the outer to the external angular process of the frontal bone. From these attachments, the fibres are directed upwards and join the aponeurosis below the coronal suture. The inner margins of the frontal portions of the two muscles are joined together for some distance above the root of the nose ; but between the occipital portions there is a considerable, though variable, interval, which is occupied by the aponeurosis. The aponeurosis covers the upper part of the vertex of the skull, being continuous across the middle line with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle. Behind, it is attached, in the interval between the occipital origins, to the occipital protuberance and superior curved lines above the attachment of the Trapezius; in front, it forms a short and narrow prolongation between the frontal portions ; and on each side it has connected with it the Attollens and Attrahens aurem muscles ; in this situation it loses its aponeurotic character, and is continued over the temporal fascia to the zygoma as a layer of laminated areolar tissue. This aponeurosis is closely connected to the integument by the firm, dense, fibro- fatty layer, which forms the superficial fascia : it is connected with the pericranium by loose cellular tissue, which allows of a considerable degree of movement of the integument. Nerves.—The frontal portion of the Occipito-frontalis is supplied by the facial nerve; its occipital portion by the posterior auricular branch of the facial, and sometimes by the occipitalis minor. Actions.—The frontal portion of the muscle raises the eyebrows and the skin over the root of the nose, and at the same time draws the scalp forwards, throwing the integument of the forehead into transverse wrinkles. The posterior portion draws the scalp backwards. By bringing alternately into action the frontal and occipital portions, the entire scalp may be moved forwards and backwards. In the ordinary action, of the muscles, the eyebrows are elevated, and at the same time the aponeurosis is fixed by the posterior portion, thus giving to the face the expression of surprise: if the action is more exaggerated, the eyebrows are still further raised, and the skin of the forehead thrown into transverse wrinkles, as in the expression of fright or horror. 2. Auriculae Region (fig. 269) Attrahens aurem. Attollens aurem. Retrahens aurem. These three small muscles are placed immediately beneath the skin around the external ear. In man, in whom the external ear is almost immovable, they are rudimentary. They are the analogues of large and important muscles in some of the mammalia. Dissection.—This requires considerable care, and should be performed in the following manner :—To expose the Attollens aurem, draw the pinna or broad part of the ear down- wards, when a tense band will be felt beneath the skin, passing from the side of the head to the upper part of the concha; by dividing the skin over this band, in a direction from below upwards, and then reflecting it on each side, the muscle is exposed. To bring into view the Attrahens aurem, draw the helix backwards by means of a hook, when the muscle B B