328 AKTICULATIONS operation the object is to obtain such union as shall allow free motion of the bones of the forearm ; and, therefore, passive motion must be commenced early, that is to say, about the tenth day. VI. Eadio-ulnar Articulations The articulation of the radius with the ulna is effected by ligaments, which connect together both extremities as well as the shafts of these bones. They may, consequently, be subdivided into three sets :—i. The superior radio-ulnar, which is a portion of the elbow-joint; 2. the middle radio-ulnar ; and, 3. the inferior radio- ulnar articulations, I. SuPEEioR Eadio-ulnar Articulation This articulation is a trochoid or pivot-joint. The bones entering into its formation are the inner side of the circumference of the head of the radius rotating within the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Its only ligament is the annular or orbicular. The Orbicular Ligament (fig. 246) is a strong, fiat band of ligamentous fibres, which surrounds the head of the radius, and retains it in firm connection with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. It forms about four-fifths of a fibrous ring, attached by each end to the extremities of the lesser sigmoid cavity, and is smaller at the loAver part of its circumference than above, by which means the head of the radius is more securely held in its position. Its outer surface is strengthened by the external lateral ligament of the elbow, and aftbrds origin to part of the Supinator brevis muscle. Its inner surface is smooth, and lined by synovial membrane. The synovial membrane is continuous with that which lines the elbow-joint. Actions.-—The movement which takes place in this articulation is limited to rotation of the head of the radius within the orbicular ligament, and upon the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; rotation forwards being called pronation ; rotation backwards, sujjination. Supination is performed by the Biceps and Supinator brevis, assisted to a slight extent by the Extensor muscles of the thumb and, in certain positions, by the Supinator longus. Pronation is performed by the Pronator radii teres and the Pronator quadratus, assisted, in some positions, by the Supinator longus. Surface Form.—The position of the superior radio-ulnar joint is marked on the surface of the body by the little dimple on the back of the forearm which indicates the position of the head of the radius. Surgical Anatomy—Dislocation of the head of the radius alone is not an uncommon accident, and occurs most frequently in young persons from falls on the hand when the forearm is extended and supinated, the head of the bone being displaced forwards. It is attended by rupture of the orbicular ligament. 2. Middle Eadio-ulnar Articulation The interval between the shafts of the radius and ulna is occupied by two ligaments. Oblique. Interosseous. The Oblique or Round Ligament (fig. 245 ) is a small, flattened fibrous band, which extends obliquely downwards and outwards, from the tubercle of the ulna at the base of the coronoid process, to the radius a little below the bicipital tuberosity. Its fibres run in the opposite direction to those of the interosseous ligament; and it appears to be placed as a substitute for it in the upper part of the interosseous interval. This ligament is sometimes Avanting. The Interosseous Membrane js a broad and thin plane of fibrous tissue descending obliquely downwards and inwards, from the interosseous ridge on the radius to that on the ulna. It is deficient above, commencing about an inch beneath the tubercle of the radius ; is broader in the middle than at either extremity ; and presents an oval aperture just above its lower margin for the passage of the