GENERAL ANATOMY 42 and spinal cord is very intricate, and can only be fully understood by a careful study of the details of its descriptive anatomy in the sequel. The further considera- tion of this subject will therefore be deferred until after the description of the various divisions of which the cerebro-spinal system is made up. The nerves are round or flat- tened cords, formed of the nerve- fibres already described. They are connected at one end with the cerebro-spinal centre or with the ganglia, and are distributed at the other end to the various textures of the body ; they are subdivided into two great classes—the cerebro- spinal, which proceed from the cerebro-spinal axis, and the symjja- tJietic or ganglionic nerves, which proceed from the ganglia of the sympathetic. The cerebro-spinal nerves consist of numerous nerve- fibres collected together and en- closed in a membranous sheath (fig. 51). A small bundle of primitive fibres, enclosed in a tubular sheath, is called a funiculus ; if the nerve is of small size, it may consist only of a single funiculus ; but if large, the funiculi are collected together into larger bundles or fasciculi, which are bound together in a common membranous investment, and con- stitute the nerve. In structure, the common membranous investment, or sheath of the whole nerve, which is called the epineuriuin, as well as the septa given off from it, and which separate the fasciculi, consists of connective tissue, composed of white and yellow elastic fibres, the latter existing in great abundance. The tubular sheath of the funiculi, called the perineurium, consists of a fine, smooth, transparent membrane, which may be easily separated, in the form of a tube, from the fibres it encloses ; in structure it consists of connective tissue, which has a distinctly lamellar arrangement, consisting of several lamellae, separated from each other by spaces containing lymph. The nerve-fibres are held together and supported within the funiculus by delicate connective tissue, called the endoneurium. It is continuous with septa which pass inwards from the innermost layer of the perineurium, and consists of a ground-substance in which are embedded fine bundles of fibrous connective tissue which run for the most part longitudinally. It serves to support the capillary vessels, which are arranged so as to form a network with the elongated meshes. The cerebro-spinal nerves consist almost exclusively of the medullated nerve-fibres, the non-medullated existing in very small proportions. The blood-vessels supplying a nerve terminate in a minute capillary plexus, the vessels composing Avhich pierce the perineurium and run, for the most part, parallel with the fibres; they are connected together by short, transverse vessels, forming narrow, oblong meshes, similar to the capillary system of muscle. Fine non-medullated nerve-fibres accompany these capillary vessels, vaso-niotor fibres, and break up into elementary fibrils, which form a network around the vessel. Horsley has also recently demonstrated certain medullated fibres as running in Fig. 51.—Transverse section through a micro- scopic nerve, representing a compound nerve- bundle, surrounded by perineurium. Magni- ' fied 120 diameters. The medullated fibres are seen as circles witli a central dot, viz. medullary sheath and axis- cylinder, in transverse section. They are em- bedded in endoneurium, containing numerous nuclei, which belong to the connective-tissue cells of the latter. (Klein and Noble Smith.) p. Perineurium, consisting' oi laminas of fibrous connective tissues, alternating with flattened nucleated connective- tissue cells. 1. Lymph-space between perineurium and sur- face of nerve-bundle. y^s^