62 GENERAL ANATOMY surface of the skin ; it is continuous with the dermic layer of the folhcle, is highly vascular, and probably supplied with nervous fibrils; this is the part through which material is supplied for the production and constant growth of the hair. In structure the hair-follicle consists of two coats— an outer or dermic, and an inner or epidermic. The outer or dermic coat is formed mainly of fibrous tissue ; it is continuous with the corium, is highly vascular, and supplied by numerous minute nervous filaments. It consists of three layers (fig. 69). The most internal, next the cuticular lining of the follicle, consists of a hyaline basement-membrane having a glassy, transparent appearance, which is well marked in the larger hair-follicles, but is not very distinct in the follicles of minute hairs. It is continuous with the basement-membrane of the sur- face of the corium. External to this is a layer of spindle-shaped cells, arranged in a circular manner around the follicle, but reaching only as high as the entrance of the ducts of the sebaceous glands. This is usually regarded as a muscular layer, the cells resembling unstriped muscle-cells. Externally is a thick layer of connective tissue, arranged in longi- tudinal bundles, in which are contained the blood- vessels and nerves. The inner or epidermic layer is closely adherent to the root of the hair, so that when the hair is plucked from its follicle this layer most commonly adheres to it and forms what is called the root-sheath. It consists of two strata named respectively the outer and inner root-sheath; the former of these corresponds Vvdth the Malpighian layer of the epidermis, and resembles it in the rounded form and soft character of its cells ; at the bottom of the hair-follicle these cells become continuous with those of the root of the hair. The inner root-sheath consists of a delicate cuticle next the hair; then of one or two layers of horny, flattened, nucleated cells, known as Huxley's layer ; and finally of a single layer of non-nucleated, horny, cubical cells, called Henle's layer. The hair-follicle contains the root of the hair, which terminates in a bulbous extremity, and is excavated so as to exactly fit the papilla from which it grows. The bulb is composed of polyhedral epithelial cells, which as they pass upwards into the root of the hair become elongated and spindle-shaped, except some in the centre which remain polyhedral. Some of these latter cells contain pigment- granules, which give rise to the colour of the hair. It occasionally happens that these pigment-granules completely fill the cells in the centre of the bulb, which gives rise to the dark tract of pigment often found, of greater or less length, in the axis of the hair. The shaft of the hair consists of a central pith or medulla, the fibrous part of the hair, and the cortex externally. The medulla occupies the centre of the shaft and ceases towards the point of the hair. It is usually wanting in the fine hairs covering the surface of the body, and commonly in those of the head. It is more opaque and deeper coloured when viewed by transmitted light than the fibrous part; but when viewed by reflected light it is white. It is composed of rows of poly- hedral cells, which contain air-bubbles. The fibrous portion of the hair consti- tutes the chief part of the shaft ; its cells are elongated and unite to form flattened fusiform fibres. Between the fibres are found minute spaces which contain either pigment-granules in dark hair, or minute air-bubbles in white hair. In addition to this there is also a diffused pigment contained in the fibres. The cells which form the cortex of the hair consist of a single layer which surrounds those of Fig. 69.—Transverse section of hair-follicle. I. Dermic coat of follicle. 2. Epidermic coat or root-sheatli. a. Outer layer of dermic coat, with blood-vessels. h, b. Vessels cut across, c. Middle layer, d. luner or liyaline layer, e. Outer root-slieath. /, g. Inner root- sheath. Cuticle of root-sheath. i. Hair. (From Quaiu's ' Anatomy,' Biesiadecki.)