THE SKELETON Fig. 142.—Development of the temporal bone. By ten centres. 1 for tiimpanic ^ for pctroii and vuifito/d jwrtioiis 2 for styloid process these are for the petrous portion, and are placed around the labyrinth, and two for the mastoid (Yrolik). According to Huxley, the centres are more numerous, and are disposed so as to form three portions : (i) including most of the labyrinth, with a part of the petrous and mastoid, he has named prootic ; (2) the rest of the petrous, the opistliotic ; and (3) the remainder of the mastoid, the epiotic. The petro-mastoid is ossified in cartilage. 4. The styloid ^^roccss is also ossified in cartilage from two centres : one for the base, which ap- pears before birth, and is termed the tympano-hyal; the other, comprising the rest of the process, is named the stylo-hyal, and does not appear until after birth. Shortly before birth the tympanic plate joins with the squam- ous. The petrous and mastoid join with the squamous during the first year, and the tympano-hyal portion of the styloid process about the same time. The stylo-hyal does not join the rest of the bone until after puberty, and in some skulls never becomes united. The subsequent changes in this bone are, that the tympanic plate extends outwards, so as to form the meatus auditorius; the glenoid fossa becomes deeper; and the mastoid part, w^hich at an early period of life is quite flat, enlarges from the development of the cellular cavities in its interior. Articulations.—With five bones—occipital, parietal, sphenoid, inferior maxillary, and malar. Attachment of Muscles.—To fifteen: to the squamous portion, the Temporal ; to the zygoma, the Masseter; to the mastoid portion, the Occipito-frontalis, Sterno-mastoid, Splenius capitis, Trachelo-mastoid, Digastricus, and Eetrahens aurem ; to the styloid process, the Stylo-pharyngeus, Stylo-hyoideus, and Stylo- glossus ; and to the petrous portion, the Levator palati, Tensor tympani. Tensor palati, and Stapedius. The Sphenoid Bone The Sphenoid Bone (o-^r/r, a wedge) is situated at the anterior part of the base of the skull, articulating with all the other cranial bones, which it binds firmly and solidly together. In its form it soniew^hat resembles a bat with its wings extended ; and is divided into a central portion or body, two greater and two lesser wings extending outwards on each side of the body, and two processes—the pterygoid processes—which project from it below\ The body is of large size, cuboid in form, and hollowed out in its interior so as to form a mere shell of bone. It presents for examination four surfaces— a superior, an inferior, an anterior, and a posterior. The Superior Surface (fig. 143).—In front is seen a prominent spine, the ethmoidal spine, for articulation with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid ; behind this a smooth surface presenting, in the median line, a slight longitudinal emin- ence, with a depression on each side, for lodging the olfactory tracts. This surface is bounded behind by a ridge, which forms the anterior border of a narrow, transverse groove, the optic groove; it lodges the optic commissure, and terminates on either side in the optic foramen, for the passage of the optic nerve and oph- thalmic artery. Behind the optic groove is a small eminence, olive-like in shape, ihQ olivary process ; and still more posteriorly, a deep depression, the ^z'^wito?'?/