746 CEANIAL NEKVES bicuspid teeth. It communicates with the posterior and anterior dental branches. At its point of communication with the posterior branch is a slight thickening which has received the name of the ganglion of Valentin; and at its point of communication with the anterior branch is a second enlargement, which is called the ganglion of Bochclalek. Neither of these is probably a true ganglion. The anterior superior dental branch, of large size, is given off from the superior maxillary nerve just before its exit from the infra-orbital foramen ; it enters a special canal in the anterior wall of the antrum, and, coursing from before back- wards, divides into a series of branches which supply the incisor and canine teeth. It communicates with the middle dental branch and gives off a nasal branch, which passes through a minute canal into the nasal fossa, and supplies the mucous membrane of the fore part of the inferior meatus and the floor of this cavity, communicating with the naso-palatine nerve from Meckel's ganglion. Fig. 445.—The spheno-palatine ganglion and its branches. The palpebral branches pass upwards beneath the Orbicularis palpebrarum. They supply the integument and conjunctiva of the lower eyelid with sensation, joining at the outer angle of the orbit with the facial nerve and malar branch of the orbital. The nasal branches pass inwards ; they supply the integument of the side of the nose, and join with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. The labial branches, the largest and most numerous, descend beneath the Levator labii superioris, and are distributed to the integument of the upper lip, the mucous membrane of the mouth, and labial glands. All these branches are joined, immediately beneath the orbit, by filaments from the facial nerve, forming an intricate plexus, the infra-orbital. Spheno-palatine Ganglion (fig. 445) The spheno-palatine ganglion {MecheVs), the largest of the cranial ganglia, is deeply placed in the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine foramen. It is triangular or heart-shaped, of a reddish-grey colour, and is situated just below the superior maxillary nerve as it crosses the fossa.