DEVELOPMENT OF CRANIUM 85 of the back. (4) This column undergoes a process of transverse segmentation and becomes converted into a number of quadrilateral blocks, the protovertebral somites (fig. 89). The process of segmentation commences in the cervical region and proceeds successively through the other regions of the spine until a number of segments are formed, which correspond very closely to the number of the permanent vertebrae. (5) These protovertebral somites extend laterally ; they grow forwards and inwards until they meet in front of the notochord in the middle line, which they thus enclose ; and backwards and inwards, around the spinal canal, which they also enclose. The notochord and the spinal canal are thus surrounded by a cellular mass derived from the mesoblastic layer, which constitutes the membranous matrix of the vertebrae. This structure is covered on its internal surface by hypoblast, and on its outer by epiblast, and presents the transverse segmentation already described (page 76). (6) The next step is the conversion of this primitive membranous matrix into cartilage. This takes place probably about the fourth or fifth week in the human embryo (Kolliker). The part of the protovertebral somites which has extended backwards to enclose the spinal foramen, and which eventually forms the arches of the vertebrae, simply undergoes a process of chondrification, so that the permanent arches correspond to the primary segment of the protovertebral somites, spaces being left between them for the spinal nerves and ganglia to grow out from the spinal cord. But a somewhat more complex change goes on in the portion of the protovertebral somites which encloses the notochord and which is destined to form the bodies of the vertebrae. Here each one of the protovertebral segments undergoes a second transverse division through its centre, and in the interval which is left between these secondary segmentations the fibrous structure of the intervertebral discs is formed. The half-segment of the original proto- vertebral somites on either side of this secondary segmentation joins with the segment above and below, and undergoes chondrification, and thus forms the basis of the body of a future vertebra. Each cartilaginous body of a vertebra is formed therefore out of half an original protovertebral plate joined to the half of another plate above or below it, as the case may be. (7) The notochord contained in the centre of this chondrifying mass does not continue to grow, but becomes in the human subject relatively smaller, so as, at last, to form a mere slender thread, except opposite the secondary segmentations ; that is to say, corresponding to the intervals between the bodies of the permanent vertebrae. Here it presents thick- enings, and forms an irregular network, the remains of which are to be found at all periods of life in the central pulp of the intervertebral discs. Development of the Ribs and Sternum.—The ribs are formed by extensions of the blastema of the vertebrae in the mesoblastic layer of the blastodermic membrane. These speedily undergo chondrification, and appear as cartilaginous bars, and become separated from the vertebrse at their posterior extremities. At their anterior ends the costal bars, which are to form the nine upper ribs, turn upwards and fuse together so as to form a cartilaginous strip bounding a central median fissure. The strips on either side then join in the middle line from before backwards, and so give rise to a longitudinal piece of cartilage, which represents the manubrium and gladiolus of the sternum. In the process of development the sternal attach- ment of the eighth rib disappears, while that of the ninth subdivides, one portion remaining attached to the inferior extremity of the cartilaginous sternum and becoming developed into the ensiform cartilage, the other portion receding from the sternum and becoming attached to the rib above. The further development of the vertebrae, ribs, and sternum, and the ossi- fication of their cartilaginous structure, are described in the body of the work. Development of the Cranium in general and the Face.—We have seen that the first trace of the embryo consists in the formation of a longitudinal fold of the epiblast on either side of a median groove, and that these folds or ridges grow back- wards and meet in the median line, thus forming a canal. This canal, at the cephalic extremity of the embryo, is dilated and forms a bulbous enlargement. The bulbous enlargement soon expands into three vesicular dilatations, which are known as the