EXTEENAL PLANTAR 807 Fig. 472.—The plantar nerves. Internal ylantar The branches of the posterior tibial nerve are muscular, plantar cutaneous, and articular. The muscular branches arise either separately or by a common trunk from the upper part of the nerve. They supply the Tibialis posticus, Flexor longus digitorum, and Flexor longus hallucis muscles ; the branch to the latter muscle accompanying the peroneal artery. The plantar cutaneous branch perforates the internal annular ligament, and supplies the integument of the heel and inner side of the sole of the foot. The articular branch is given off just above the bifurcation of the nerve, and supplies the ankle-joint. The internal plantar nerve (fig. 472), the larger of the two terminal branches of the posterior tibial, accompanies the internal plantar artery along the inner side of the foot. From its origin at the inner ankle it passes beneath the Abductor hallucis, and then forwards between this muscle and the Flexor brevis digitorum, divides opposite the bases of the metatarsal bones into four digital branches, and communicates with the external plantar nerve. Branches.—In its course, the internal plantar nerve gives cutaneous branches, which pierce the plantar fascia, and supply the integument of the sole of the foot ; muscular branches, which supply the Abductor hallucis and Flexor brevis digitorum ; articular branches to the ar- ticulations of the tarsus and metatarsus ; and four digital branches. These pass between the divisions of the plantar fascia in the clefts between the toes, and are distributed in the following manner : The first supplies the inner border of the great toe, and sends a filament to the Flexor brevis hallucis muscle ; the second bifur- cates, to supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toes, sending a filament to the First lumbrical muscle ; the third digital branch supplies the adjacent sides of the second and third toes, and the Second lumbrical muscle; the fourth supplies the corresponding sides of the third and fourth toes, and receives a communicating branch from the external plantar nerve. It will be observed, that the distribution of these branches is pre- cisely similar to that of the median nerve in the hand. Each digital nerve gives off cutaneous and articular filaments; and opposite the last phalanx sends a dorsal branch, which supplies the structure round the nail, the continuation of the nerve being distributed to the ball of the toe. The external plantar nerve, the smaller of the two, completes the nervous supply to the structures of the sole of the foot, being distributed to the little toe and one-half of the fourth, as well as to most of the deep muscles, its distribution being similar to that of the ulnar in the hand. It passes obliquely forwards with the external plantar artery to the outer side of the foot, lying between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Flexor accessorius ; and, in the interval between the former muscle and Abductor minimi digiti, divides into a superficial and a deep branch. Before its division, it supplies the Flexor accessorius and Abductor minimi digiti. The superficial branch separates into two digital nerves : one, the smaller of Beep h ranch