OF THE HAND 467 outer side of the ulna, and the pahii of the hand is again directed forwards. The Extensor carpi radiahs longior extends the wrist and abducts the hand. It may also assist in bending the elbow-joint; at all events it serves to fix or steady this articulation. The Extensor carpi radialis brevior assists the Extensor carpi radialis longior in extending the wrist, and may also act slightly as an abductor of the hand. The Extensor carpi ulnaris helps to extend the hand, but when acting alone inclines it towards the ulnar side: by its continued action it extends the elbow-joint. The Extensor communis digitorum extends the phalanges, then the wrist, and finally the elbow. It acts principally on the proximal phalanges, the middle and terminal phalanges being extended mainly by the Interossei and Lumbricales. It has also a tendency to separate the fingers as it extends them. The Extensor minimi digiti extends the little finger, and by its continued action it assists in extending the wrist. It is owing to this muscle that the little finger can be extended or pointed whilst the others are flexed. The chief action of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis is to carry the thumb outwards and backwards from the palm of the hand, and hence it has been called the abductor longus pollicis. By its continued action it helps to extend and abduct the wrist. The Extensor brevis pollicis extends the proximal phalanx of the thumb. By its continued action it helps to extend and abduct the wrist. The Extensor longus pollicis extends the terminal phalanx of the thumb. By its continued action it helps to extend and abduct the wrist. The Extensor indicis extends the index finger, and by its continued action assists in extending the wrist. It is owing to this muscle that the index finger can be extended or pointed while tlie others are flexed. Surgical Anatomy.—The tendons of the Extensor muscles of the thumb are liable to become strained, and their sheaths inflamed, after excessive exercise, producing a sausage- shaped swelling along the course of the tendon and giving a peculiar creaking sensation to the finger when the muscle acts. In consequence of its often being caused by such movements as wringing clothes, it is known as ' washerwoman's sprain.' Muscles and Fascia of the Hand Dissection (fig. 301).—Make a transverse incision across the front of the wrist, and a second across the heads of the metacarpal bones : connect the two by a vertical incision in the middle line, and continue it through the centre of the middle finger. The anterior and posterior Fig. 311.—Transverse section through the wrist, annular ligaments, and the palmar fascia, should then be dissected. The Anterior Annular Liga- ment is a strong, fibrous band, which arches over the carpus, converting the deep groove on the front of the carpal bones into a canal, beneath which pass the flexor tendons of the fingers. It is attached, internally, to the pisiform bone and unciform process of the unciform bone ; and externally, to the tuberosity of the scaphoid, and to the inner part of the anterior surface and the ridge on the trapezium. It is continuous, above, with the deep fascia of the forearm, of which it may be regarded as a thickened portion ; and, below, with the palmar fascia. It is crossed by the ulnar vessels and nerve, and the cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves. At its outer extremity is the tendon of the Flexor carpi radiahs, which Hes in the groove on the trapezium between the attachments of the annular hgament to the bone. It has inserted into its anterior surface the tendon of the Palmaris longus H H 2 showing the annular ligaments and the canals for the passage of the tendons.