GENEEAL ANATOMY right; but the liver remains up to the end of foetal life relatively larger than in the adult. The gall-bladder appears about the second month, as an extension of the cavity from which the main duct of the liver is developed; and bile is detected in the intestines by the third month. The 'i^ancreas is also an early formation, being far advanced in the second month. It, as well as the salivary glands, which appear about the same period, j originates in a projection from the epithelial layer, which afterwards forms a | cavity, and the lobules of the gland are developed from the ramifications of this j cavity. It is generally admitted that the epithelial lining of the ducts is furnished j by the hypoblast, in the development of both the pancreas and the liver; and that j the vessels owe their origin to the mesoblast. But authorities differ as to the mode j of formation of the parenchyma, as to whether this is entirely of mesoblastic j origin, or whether the hypoblast shares in its development. I The spleen, on the other hand, is apparently entirely of mesoblastic origin, for , there is never any connection between the intestinal cavity and the substance of | this organ. It originates from the mesenteric fold which connects the stomach | to the vertebral column (mesogastrium). j Development of the Respiratory Organs.—The lungs appear somewhat later ■ than the liver. They are developed from a small median cul-de-sac or diverticu- lum from the upper part of the fore-gut, immediately behind the fourth visceral i cleft, as a projection from the epithelial and fibrous laminae of the intestines. ' During the fourth week a pouch is formed on either side of the central diver- ticulum, and opens freely through it into the fore-gut (pharynx). From these, other (secondary) pouches are given off, so that by the eighth week the form of the | lobes of the lungs may be made out. The two primary pouches have thus a I common pedicle of communication with the pharynx. This is developed into the i trachea (fig. 97, b), the cartilaginous rings of which are perceptible about the, seventh week. The parts which afterwards form the larynx are recognised as early as the sixth week—viz. a projection on either side of the pharyngeal open- ing, which is the rudiment of the arytenoid cartilage and a transverse elevation | from the third pharyngeal arch, which afterwards becomes the epiglottis ; the! vocal cords and ventricles of the larynx are seen about the fourth month. Traces of the diaphragm appear in the form of a fine membrane, separating the lungs \ from the Wolffian bodies, the stomach and the liver, whilst the heart is still near the head. As the diaphragm extends forwards from the vertebral column it, separates the common pleuro-peritoneal cavity into two parts, a thoracic andi abdominal. Development of the Urinary Organs.—The urinary organs appear to be entirely of mesoblastic origin, and are intimately connected with an embryonic glandular, organ first discovered by Wolff, and hence called the Wolffian body. Recent researches have shown that the Wolffian bodies form a part of a set of glands which are found in all vertebrate and some invertebrate animals. These glands | have been termed the segviental organs, and consist, in vertebrates, of branching! tubes opening at one extremity into the body-cavity, and at the other by one or j more main ducts into the cloaca or hind-gut.* The segmental organ of vertebrates! is divided into three parts, each of which possesses an excretory duct. The anterior i of the three, situated in the region of the rudimentary heart, is termed the head- kidney OT i:)ronephros (Lankester), and its duct is the Miillerian duct. The central part is the Wolffian body, the mesonephros (Lankester), and its duct is the Wolffianj duct. The posterior segment is the rudiment of the permanent kidney, and isf formed later than the other two. It is named the metanephros (Lankester), and its! duct is the ureter. 1 The segmental organ is perceptible about the third week, forming an elongated} ridge of cells situated on either side of the primitive vertebrae and extending from j I * In invertebrates the external openings are on the sides of the body. jj