970 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION Interior of the Larynx.—The superior aperture of the larynx (fig. 569) is a triangular or cordiform opening, wide in front, narrow behind, and sloping obliquely downwards and backwards. It is bounded, in front, by the epiglottis; behind, by the apices of the arytenoid cartilages, and the cornicula laryngis ; and laterally, by a fold of mucous membrane, enclosing ligamentous and muscular fibres, stretched between the sides of the epiglottis and the apex of the arytenoid cartilages : these are the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, on the margins of which the^ cuneiform cartilages form a more or less distinct whitish prominence. The cavity of the larynx extends from the superior aperture to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. It is divided into two parts by the projection inwards of the vocal cords; between the two cords is a long and narrow triangular fissure or chink, the rima glottidis. The portion of the cavity of the larynx above the true vocal cords is broad and triangular in shape, and corresponds to the interval between the al^e of the thyroid cartilage ; it contains the false vocal cords, and between these and the true vocal cords are the ventricles of the larynx. The portion below the true vocal cords is at first of an elliptical, and lower down of a circular form. The rima glottidis is the narrow fissure or chink between the inferior or true vocal cords. It is the nar- rowest part of the cavity of the larynx, and corresponds to the lower level of the ary- tenoid cartilages. Its length, in the male, measures rather less than an inch ; its breadth, when dilated, varying at its widest part from a third to half an inch. In the female these measurements are less by two or three lines. The form of the rima glottidis varies. In its half-closed con- dition it is a narrow fissure, a little enlarged and rounded behind. In quiet breathing it is widely open, somewhat triangular, the base of the tri- angle directed backwards, and corresponding to the space between the separated arytenoid cartilages. In forcible expiration it is smaller than during inspiration. When sound is produced it is more narrowed, the margins of the arytenoid cartilages being brought into contact, and the edges of the vocal cords approximated and made parallel, the degree of approximation andj tension corresponding to the height of the note produced.* The superior or false vocal cords, so called because they are not directly concerned in the production of the voice, are two folds of mucous membrane, enclosing a delicate narrow fibrous band, the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament. This ligament consists of a thin band of elastic tissue, attached in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage below the epiglottis, and behind to the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. The lower border of this ligament, enclosed in mucous membrane, forms a free crescentic margin, which constitutes the upper boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. The inferior or triie vocal cords, so called from their being concerned in the production of sound, are two strong fibrous bands {inferior thyro-arytenoid * On the shape of the rima glottidis, in the various conditions of breathing and speaking, see Czermak, On the Lary^igoscope, translated for the Neio Sydenham Society. Fig. 569.—The larynx and adjacent parts, seen from above.