692 NEEVOUS SYSTEM side of the lateral tract, is now seen to be the enlarged head of the x3osterior cornu of the grey matter which is disjDlaced laterally in consequence of the increase in size of the posterior columns of the medulla, so that it lies almost at right angles to the posterior median fissure, and approaching the surface forms a prominence which is covered over by a very thin layer of white matter, derived from the funiculus cuneatus. Its most prominent part on the surface is called the tubercle of Rolando. The funiculus cuneatus is the direct continuation upwards of the posterolateral column of the cord. Its white fibres are derived from this region of the cord. The fibres appear to end in the grey matter w^hich forms the so-called nucleus of this column; this nucleus, at first narrow, gradually enlarges, and produces, externally, the eminence mentioned above as the tuberculum cuneatum. The funiculus gracilis is the direct continuation upwards of the posterior median column of the cord. It consists entirely of white fibres, which are continuous with those of this region of the cord. Like the funiculus cuneatus its fibres appear to end in its so-called nucleus, which produces externally the prominence mentioned above as the clava. The restiform body is mainly constituted by the fusing together of the funiculus of Eolando and the funiculus cuneatus, to which are added the arciform fibres of the medulla and the lateral cerebellar tract from the lateral tract of the medulla. In addition to these, a bundle of fibres has been described by Solly as passing from the anterior column of the cord obliquely upwards below the olivary body to the restiform body. The white fibres of the restiform body are continued upwards to the cerebellum, forming its inferior peduncle. Microscopic Anatomy of the Medulla.—If the cranial nerves emerging from the medulla are traced into its substance, it will be seen that they divide each hemisphere of the medulla into three wedge-shaped areas, which have been named the anterior, lateral, and posterior areas of the medulla. The anterior area comprises that portion which is situated between the anterior median fissure and the fibres of origin of the hypoglossal nerve. On the surface of the medulla this area corresponds to the pyramid. The lateral area> comprises that portion which is situated between the fibres of origin of the hypoglossal nerve and the fibres of origin of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves. On the surface of the medulla, in its lower part, this area is single, and is called the lateral tract; but in the upper part an oval-shaped body comes forward between it and the pyramid, pushing aside the lateral tract. This oval-shaped body is the olivary body. The i^osterior area comprises that portion which is situated between the fibres of origin of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves and the posterior median fissure. On the surface of the medulla, this area is marked by slight furrows marking off smaller columns; these, in the lower part of the medulla, are named, from without inwards, the funiculus of Eolando, the funiculus cuneatus, and the funiculus gracilis ; in the upper part of the medulla, the funiculus of Eolando and the funiculus cuneatus appear to become fused together, forming a single body, called the restiform body. The Arciform fibres.—Deep set.—The deep arciform fibres are more numerous than the superficial set; they traverse the whole area of the upper half of the medulla, except the pyramid. They pass from the raphe ; some become superficial and join the superficial arciform fibres ; while others remain deep and pass to the restiform body and to the nuclei of the funiculus cuneatus and funiculus gracilis. The raphe.—The raphe is situated in the middle line of the medulla, above the decussation of the pyramids. It consists of nerve-fibres intermingled with nerve-cells. The fibres have different directions which can only be seen in suitable microscopic sections ; thus— I. Some are antero-posterior; these are continuous in front with the superficial arciform fibres.