i66 THE SKELETON Changes produced ix the Uppee Jaw by Age At birth and during infancy the diameter of the bone is greater in an antero-posterior than in a vertical direction. Its nasal process is long, its orbital surface large, and its tuberosity well marked. In the adult the vertical diameter is the greater, owing to the development of the alveolar process and the increase in size of the antrum. In old age the bone approaches again in character to the infantile condition : its height is diminished, and after the loss of the teeth the alveolar process is absorbed, and the lower part of the bone contracted and diminished in thickness. The Lachrymal Bone The Lachrymal (lachryma, a tear) are the smallest and most fragile bones of the face. They are situated at the front part of the inner wall of the orbit, and resemble somewhat in form, thinness, and size, a finger-nail; hence they are termed the ossa unguis. Each bone presents for examination two surfaces and four borders. The external or orbital surface (fig. 158) is divided by a vertical ridge, the lachrymal crest, into two parts. The por- tion of bone in front of this ridge presents a smooth, concave, longitudinal groove, the free margin of which unites with the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, completing the lachrymal groove. The upper part of this groove lodges the lachrymal sac ; the loAver part lodges the nasal duct. The portion of bone behind the ridge is smooth, slightly concave, and forms part of the inner wall of the orbit. The ridge, with a part of the orbital surface immediately behind it, affords attachment to the Tensor tarsi: the ridge terminates below in a small, hook-like projec- tion, the hamular process, which articulates with the lachrymal tubercle of the superior maxillary bone, and completes the upper orifice of the lachrymal groove. It sometimes exists as a separate piece, which is then called the lesser laclinjmal hone. The internal or nasal surface presents a depressed furrow, corresponding to the ridge on its outer surface. The surface of bone in front of this forms part of the middle meatus ; and that behind it articulates wdth the ethmoid bone, filling in the anterior ethmoidal cells. Of the/o/n- borders, the anterior is the longest, and articulates with the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. The 2^osterior, thin and uneven, articulates with the OS planum of the ethmoid. The s2iyerior, the shortest and thickest, articulates with the internal angular process of the frontal bone. The inferior is divided by the lower edge of the vertical crest into two parts : the posterior part articulates with the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone; the anterior portion is prolonged downwards into a pointed process, which articulates with the lachrymal process of the inferior turbinated bone, and assists in the formation of the lachrymal groove. Development.—By a single centre, which makes its appearance soon after ossifi- cation of the vertebr£e has commenced. Articulations.—With four bones : two of the cranium, the frontal and ethmoid, and t^^'o of the face, the superior maxillary and the inferior turbinated. Attachment of Muscles.—To one muscle, the Tensor tarsi. The Malar Bone The Malar (mala, the cJieek) are two small, quadrangular bones, situated at the upper and outer part of the face : they form the prominence of the cheek, part of the outer wall and floor of the orbit, and part of the temporal and zygomatic fossae. Each bone presents for examination an external and an internal surface ; Fig. 158.—Left lachrymal bone. External surface. (Slightly enlarged.) witA Frontal