869 COCHLEA (cochlearis), but is now recognised as ligamentous—the ligamentum sjnTale. Between the labium vestibulare and the attachment of the membrane of Reissner, presently to be described, a very delicate membrane extends over to the outer wall of the cochlea, running nearly parallel to the membrana basilaris. It was described by Corti, and covers over the organ which is called after his name, and is therefore called membrane of Corti or membrana tectoria. Farther inwards, near the commencement of the limbus laminfe spiralis, another delicate membrane, the membrane of Beissner, is attached to the vestibular surface of the periosteum of the osseous lamina, and stretches across to the outer wall of the cochlea. The canal which lies below the osseous lamina and membrana basilaris is the scala tympani ; that which is bounded by the osseous lamina and membrane of Reissner the scala vestibuli; while the space between the membrane of Reissner and membrana basilaris is generally described as the Scala media, Canalis membranacea, or Canalis cochlece, and this is the nomenclature which will be used here. Others, however, apply the name canalis cocMece only to the canal lying between the membrane of Reissner and the membrana tectoria, which contains no object for description, while the space lying between the membrana tectoria and membrana basilaris is described by itself as a fourth canal—the ductus cochlearis or ditctits auditorius* The latter is the space in which the organ of Corti f is contained. This organ Fig. 507.—Floor of scala media, showing the organ of Corti, etc. (fig. 507) is situated upon the membrana basilaris, and appears at first sight as a papilla, winding spirally with the turns of this membrane throughout the whole length of the cochlea, from which circumstance it has been designated the papilla spiralis. More accurately viewed, it is seen to be composed of a remarkable arrange- ment of cells, which may be likened to the keyboard of a pianoforte. Of these cells, the two central ones are rodlike bodies, and are called the inner and outer rods of Corti. They are placed erect on the basilar membrane, at some little distance from each other, the space between them being denominated the zo7ia arcuata; they are inclined towards each other, so as to meet at their opposite extremities, and form a series of arches roofing over the zona arcuata, thus forming a minute tunnel between them and the basilar membrane, which ascends spirally through the whole length of the cochlea. They are estimated at over three thousand in number. The inner rods, which are more numerous than the outer ones, rest on the basilar membrane, close to the labium tympanicum ; they project obliquely forwards and outwards, and terminate above in expanded extremities, which resemble in shape the upper end of the ulna, with its sigmoid cavity, coronoid and olecranon * In reading the older descriptions of the organ of hearing, the student must bear in mind that the membranes bounding the ductus auditorius, together with the organ contained between them, were described together as the 'lamina spiralis membranacea,' while the membrane of Reissner was not reeognised, the parts being, in fact, as shown in the second turn of the cochlea on the right hand of fig. 506. t Corti's original paper is in the Zeitschr ftf. Wissen. Zool. iii. 109.