FRONTAL BONE 143 varies in size in different subjects ; it is sometimes partially or completely impervious, lodges a process of the falx cerebri, and, when open, transmits a vein from the lining membrane of the nose to the superior longitudinal sinus. On either side of the groove the bone is deeply concave, presenting eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the brain, and numerous small furrows for lodging the ramifications of the anterior meningeal arteries. Several small, irregular fossae are also seen on either side of the groove, for the reception of the Pacchionian bodies; Horizontal Portion.—External Surface.—This portion of the bone consists of two thin plates, which form the vault of the orbit, separated from one another by the ethmoidal notch. Each orbital vault consists of a smooth, concave, triangular plate of bone, marked at its anterior and external part (immediately beneath the external angular process) by a shallow depression, the lachrymal fossa, for lodging the lachrymal gland ; and at its anterior and internal part, by a depression (some- times a small tubercle) for the attachment of the cartilaginous pulley of the Superior oblique muscle of the eye. The ethmoidal notch separates the two orbital plates ; it is quadrilateral, and filled up, when the bones are united, by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The margins of this notch present several half-cells, which, when united with corresponding half-cells on the upper surface of the ethmoid, complete the ethmoidal cells; two grooves are also seen crossing these edges transversely; they are converted into canals by articulation with the ethmoid, and are called the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals : they o^qw on the inner wall of the orbit. The anterior one transmits the nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal vessels, the posterior one the posterior ethmoidal vessels. In front of the ethmoidal notch, on either side of the nasal spine, are the openings of the frontal sinuses. These are two irregular cavities, which extend upwards and outwards, a variable distance, between the two tables of the skull, and are separated from one another by a thin, bony septum. They give rise to the prominences above the supra-orbital arches called the superciliary ridges. In the child they are generally absent, and they become gradually developed as age advances. These cavities vary in size in different persons, are larger in men than in women, and are frequently of unequal size on the two sides, the right being commonly the larger. They are subdivided by a bony lamina, which is often dis- placed to one side. They are lined by mucous membrane, and communicate with the nose by the infundibulum, and occasionally with each other by apertures in their septum. The internal surface of the horizontal portion presents the convex upper surfaces of the orbital plates, separated from each other in the middle line by the ethmoidal notch, and marked by eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the frontal lobes of the brain. Borders.—The border of the vertical portion is thick, strongly serrated, bevelled at the expense of the internal table above, where it rests upon the parietal bones, and at the expense of the external table at each side, where it receives the lateral pressure of those bones ; this border is continued below into a triangular, rough sur- face, which articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid. The border of the hori- zontal portion is thin, serrated, and articulates with the lesser wing of the sphenoid. Structure.—The vertical portion and external angular processes are very thick, consisting of diploic tissue contained between two compact laminae. The horizontal portion is thin, translucent, and composed entirely of compact tissue; hence the facility with which instruments can penetrate the cranium through this part of the orbit. Development (fig. 137).—The frontal bone is formed in membrane, being deve- loped by tiDO centres, one for each lateral half, which make their appearance about the seventh or eighth Aveek, above the orbital arches. From this point ossification extends, in a radiating manner, upwards into the forehead, and backwards over the orbit. At birth the bone consists of two pieces, which afterwards become united, along the middle line, by a suture which runs from the vertex to the root of the