354 AETICULATIONS in front, from within outwards, the Tibiahs anticns, Extensor proprius halkicis, anterior tibial vessels, anterior tibial nerve, Extensor communis digitormn, and Peroneus tertius ; behind, from within outwards, the Tibialis posticus. Flexor longus digitorum, posterior tibial vessels, posterior tibial nerve. Flexor longus hallucis ; and, in the groove behind the external malleolus, the tendons of the Peroneus longus and brevis. The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial and the peroneal. The Nerves are derived from the anterior and posterior tibial. Actions.—The movements of the joint are those of flexion and extension. The malleoli tightly embrace the astragalus in all positions of the joint, so that any slight degree of lateral movement which may exist is simply due to stretching of the inferior tibio-fibular ligaments, and slight bending of the shaft of the fibula. Of the ligaments, the internal, or deltoid, is of very great power—so much so, that it usually resists a force which fractures the process of bone to which it is attached. Its middle portion, together with the middle fasciculus of the Fig. 264.—Ankle-joint: tarsal and tarso-metatarsal articulations. External view. Right side. external lateral ligament, binds the bones of the leg firmly to the foot, and resists displacement in every direction. Its anterior and posterior fibres limit extension and flexion of the foot respectively, and the anterior fibres also limit abduction. The posterior portion of the external lateral ligament assists the middle portion in resisting the displacement of the foot backwards, and deepens the cavity for the reception of the astragalus. The anterior fasciculus is a security against the dis- placement of the foot forwards, and limits extension of the joint. The movements of abduction and adduction of the foot, together Avith the minute changes in form by which it is applied to the ground or takes hold of an object in climbing, etc., are mainly effected in the tarsal joints ; the one which enjoys the greatest amount of motion being that between the astragalus and os calcis behind, and the navicular and cuboid in front. This is often called the transverse or meclio-tarsal joint, and it can, with the subordinate joints of the tarsus, replace the ankle-joint in a great measure when the latter has become ankylosed. Extension of the tarsal bones upon the tibia and fibula is produced by the Gastrocnemius, Soleus, Plantaris, Tibialis posticus, Peroneus longus and brevis,