GENERAL ANATOMY 24 membrane, which Imes the central cavity and the adjoining canals. The ramifica- tions of this vessel anastomose with the arteries both of the cancellous and com- pact tissues.* In most of the flat, and in many of the short spongy bones, one or more large apertures are observed, which transmit, to the central parts of the bone, vessels corresponding to the medullary arteries and veins. The veins emerge from the long bones in three places (KoUiker)—(i) by one or two large veins, which accompany the artery ; (2) by numerous large and small veins at the articular extremities; (3) by many small veins which arise in the compact substance. In the flat cranial bones the veins are large, very numerous, and run in tortuous canals in the diploic tissue, the sides of the canals being formed by a thin lamella of bone, perforated here and there for the passage of branches from the adjacent cancelli. The same condition is also found in all cancellous tissue, the veins being enclosed and supported by osseous structure, and having exceedingly thin coats. When the bony structure is divided, the vessels remain patulous, and do not contract in the canals in which they are contained. Hence the constant occur- rence of purulent absorption after amputation, in those cases where the stump becomes inflamed, and the cancellous tissue is infiltrated and bathed in pus. Lymphatic vessels, in addition to those found in the periosteum, have been traced, by Cruikshank, into the substance of bone, and Klein describes them as running in the Haversian canals. Nerves are distributed freely to the periosteum, and accompany the nutrient arteries into the interior of the bone. They are said by KoUiker to be most numerous in the articular extremities of the long bones, in the vertebrae and the larger flat bones. Minute Anatomy.—The intimate structure of bone, which in all essential particulars is identical in the compact and cancellous tissue, is most easily studied in a transverse section from the compact wall of one of the long bones after maceration, such as is shown in fig. 26. If this is examined with a rather low power the bone will be seen to be mapped out into a number of circular districts : each one of which consists of a central hole, surrounded by a number of concentric rings. These districts are termed Haversian systems; the central hole is an Haversian ca7ial, and the rings around are layers of bone-tissue arranged concentrically around the central canal, and termed lamellcB. Moreover, on closer examina- tion, it will be found that between these lamellae, and therefore also arranged concentrically around the central canal, are a number of little dark specks, the lacuncB, and that these lacunas are connected with each other and with the central Haversian canal by a number of fine dark lines, which radiate like the spokes of a wheel and are called canaliculi. All these structures—the concentric lamellae, * This view is not, however, entertained by all anatomists. Mr. Charles Stewart believes that, in many cases at all events, the vessels of the periosteum supply onlj the circumferential lamelke on the surface of the shaft of the bone, which are formed from this membrane, and that the whole of the rest of its structure is supplied by the vessels of the medullary membrane, and that only very exceptionally does any anastomosis take place between the two sets of vessels. Certainly, in one microscopic section which I had an opportunity of examining, through the kindness of Mr. Stewart, this appeared to be the case. Fig. 26.—From a transverse section of the diaphysis of the humerus. Magnified 350 times. a. Haversian canals, b. Lacunae, with their canaliculi in the lamellEe of these canals, c. Lacunte, of the intersti- tial lamella, d. Others at the surface of the Haversian systems, with canaliculi given off from one side.