864 ORGANS OF SENSE and with the walls of the tympanum, by ligaments, and moved by small muscles. The articular surfaces of the malleus and incus, and the orbicular process of the incus and head of the stapes, are covered with cartilage, connected together by delicate capsular ligaments, and lined by synovial membrane. The ligaments connecting the ossicula with the walls of the tympanum are four in number : two for the malleus, one for the incus, and one for the stapes. The anterior ligament of the malleus was formerly described by Sommerring as a muscle (Laxator tympani). It is now, however, believed by most observers to consist of ligamentous fibres only. It is attached by one extremity to the neck of the malleus, just above the processus gracilis, and by the other to the anterior wall of the tympanum, close to the Glaserian fissure, some of its fibres being prolonged through the fissure. The suspensory ligament of the malleus is a delicate, round bundle of fibres which descends perpendicularly from the roof of the tympanum to the head of the malleus. The posterior ligament of the incus is a short, thick, ligamentous band which connects the extremity of the short process of the incus to the posterior wall of the tympanum, near the margin of the opening of the mastoid cells. The annular ligament of the stayes connects the circumference of the base of this bone to the margin of the fenestra oralis. A suspensory ligament of the incus has been described by Arnold, descending from the roof of the tympanum to the upper part of the incus, near its articulation with the malleus. The muscles of the tympanum are two :— Tensor tympani. Stapedius. The Tensor tympani, the larger, 'is contained in the bony canal, above the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube, from which it is separated by the processus cochleariformis. It arises from the under surface of the petrous bone, from the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube, and from the osseous canal in which it is contained. Passing backwards through the canal, it terminates in a slender tendon which enters the tympanum and makes a sharp bend outward round the extremity of the processus cochleariformis, and is inserted into the handle of the malleus, near its root. It is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion. The Stapedius arises from the side of a conical cavity, hollowed out of the interior of the pyramid; its tendon emerges from the orifice at the apex of the pyramid, and, passing forwards, is inserted into the neck of the stapes. Its surface is aponeurotic, its interior fleshy; and its tendon occasionally contains a slender bony spine, which is constant in some mammalia. It is supplied by the tympanic branch of the facial nerve. Actions.—The Tensor tympani draws the membrana tympani inwards, and thus heightens its tension. The Stapedius draws the head of the stapes backwards, and thus causes the base of the bone to rotate on a vertical axis drawn through its own centre: in doing this the back part of the base would be pressed inwards towards the vestibule, while the fore part would be drawn from it. It probably compresses the contents of the vestibule. The mucous membrane of the tympanum is thin, slightly vascular, and continuous with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, through the Eustachian tube. It invests the ossicula, and the muscles and nerves contained in the tympanic cavity; forms the internal layer of the membrana tympani; covers the foramen rotundum, and is reflected into the mastoid cells, which it lines throughout. In the tympanum and mastoid cells this membrane is pale, thin, slightly vascular, and covered with ciliated epithelium. In the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube the membrane is thin; but in the cartilaginous portion it is very thick, highly vascular, covered Avith laminar ciliated epithelium, and provided with numerous mucous glands. The arteries supplying the tympanum are six in number. Three of them are larger than the rest, viz. the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, which