627 POSTERIOR TIBIAL Plan of the Relations of the Posterior Tibial Artery In front. Tibialis posticus. Flexor longus digitoram. Tibia. Ankle-joint. Inner side. • Posterior tibial nerve, upper third. Outer side. Posterior tibial nerve, lower two-thirds. Beliind. Integument and fascia. Gastrocnemius. Soleus. Deep transverse fascia. Posterior tibial nerve. Behind the Inner Ankle, the tendons and blood-vessels are arranged in the following order, from within outwards :—First, the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum, lying in the same groove, behind the inner malleolus, the former being the most internal. External to these is the posterior tibial artery, having a vein on either side; and, still more externally, the posterior tibial nerve. About half an inch nearer the heel is the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis. • Peculiarities in Size.—The posterior tibial is not unfrequently smaller than usual, or absent, its place being supplied by a large peroneal artery, which passes inwards at the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the smaU tibial artery, or continues alone to the sole of the foot. Surface Marking.—The course of the posterior tibial artery is indicated by a line di'awn from a point one inch below the centre of the popliteal space to midway between the tip of the internal malleolus and the centre of the convexity of the heel. Surgical Anatomy.—The application of a ligature to the posterior tibial may be required in cases of wound of the sole of the foot, attended with great hsemorrhage, when the vessel should be tied at the inner ankle. In cases of wound of the posterior tibial, it will be necessary to enlarge the opening so as to expose the vessel at the wounded point, exceptino- where the vessel is injured by a punctured wound from the front of the leg. In cases of anemdsm from wound of the artery low down, the vessel should be tied in the middle of the leg. But in aneurism of the posterior tibial high up, it would be better to tie the femoral artery. To tie the posterior tibial artery at the ankle, a semilunar incision should be made through the integiunent, about tw^o inches and a half in length, midway between the heel and inner ankle, or a little nearer the latter. The subcutaneous cellular tissue having been divided, a strong and dense fascia, the internal annular ligament, is exposed. This ligament is continuous above with the deep fascia of the leg, covers the vessels and nerves, and is intimately adherent to the sheaths of the tendons. This having been cautiously" divided upon a director, the sheath of the vessels is exposed, and, being opened, the artery is seen with one of the venae comites on each side. The anemdsm needle should be passed round the vessel from the heel towards the ankle, in order to avoid the posterior tibial nerve, care being at the same time taken not to include the venae comites. The vessel ma}^ also be tied in the lower third of the leg by making an incision about three inches in length, parallel with the inner margin of the tendo Achillis. The internal saphenous vein being carefully avoided, the two layers of fascia must be divided upon a director, when the artery is exposed along the outer margin of the Flexor longus digitorum, with one of its venae comites on either side, and the nerve lying external to it. To tie the posterior tibial in the middle of the leg is a very difficult operation, on account of the great depth of the vessel from the sm'face. The patient being placed in the recumbent position, the injured limb should rest on its outer side, the knee being partially- bent, and the foot extended, so as to relax the muscles of the- calf. An incision about fom- inches in length should then be made through the integument, a finger's breadth behind the inner margin of the tibia, taking care to avoitl the internal saphenous vein. The deep fascia having been divided, the margin of the Gastrocnemius is exposed, and must be drawn aside. S S 2