CAEPUS 237 smooth, and bounded by four edges, articulates with the radius. The inferior surface is deeply concave, and of greater extent from before backwards than trans- versely : it articulates with the head of the os magnum, and, by a long, narrow facet (separated by a ridge from the general surface), with the unciform bone. The anterior or palmar and posterior or dorsal surfaces are rough, for the attach- ment of ligaments, the former being the broader, and of somewhat rounded form. The external surface presents a narrow, flattened, semilunar facet for articulation with the scaphoid. The internal surface is marked by a smooth, quadrilateral facet, for articulation with the cui;eiform. Hold it with the convex articular surface for the radius upwards, and the narrowest non-articular surface towards you. The semilunar facet for the scaphoid will be on the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With five bones : the radius above, os magnum and unciform below, scaphoid and cuneiform on either side. The Cuneiform (cuneus, a iveclge; forma, likeness) may be distinguished by its pyramidal shape (os pyramidal), and by its having an oval, isolated facet for articulation with the pisiform bone. It is situated at the upper and inner side of the carpus. The superior surface presents an internal, rough, non-articular portion, and an external or articular portion, which is convex, smooth, and articulates with the triangular interarticular fibro-cartilage of the wrist. The inferior surface, directed outwards, is concave, sinuously curved, and smooth for articulation with the unciform. The posterior or dorsal surface is rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The anterior or palmar surface presents, at its inner side, an oval facet, for articulation with the pisiform; and is rough externally, for ligamentous attachment. The external surface, the base of the pyramid, is marked by a flat, quadrilateral, smooth facet, for articulation with the semilunar. The internal surface, the summit of the pyramid, is pointed and roughened, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the wrist. Hold the bone with the surface supporting the pisiform facet away from you, and the concavo-convex surface for the unciform downwards. The base of the wedge (i.e. the broad end of the bone) will be on the side to which it belongs. Articulations.—With three bones: the semilunar externally, the pisiform in front, the unciform below ; and with the triangular, interarticular fibro-cartilage which separates it from the lower end of the ulna. The Pisiform (pisum, a pea ; forma, likeness) may be known by its small size, and by its presenting a single articular facet. It is situated at the anterior and inner side of the carpus, is nearly circular in form, and presents on its posterior surface a smooth, oval facet, for articulation with the cuneiform. This facet approaches the superior, but not the inferior, border of the bone. The anterior or palmar surface is rounded and rough, and gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament and to the Flexor carpi ulnaris and Abductor minimi digiti muscles. The outer and inner surfaces are also rough, the former being convex, the latter usually concave. Hold the bone with the posterior surface—that which presents the articular facet—towards you, in such a manner that the faceted portion of the surface is uppermost. The outer, convex surface will point to the side to which it belongs. Articulations.—With one bone, the cuneiform. Attachment of Muscles.—To two: the Flexor carpi ulnaris and Abductor minimi digiti; and to the anterior annular ligament. Bones of the Lower Eow (figs. 204, 205) The Trapezium (rpaTre^a, a table) is of very irregular form. It may be distin- guished by a deep groove, for the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis muscle. It is situated at the external and inferior part of the carpus, between the scaphoid and first metacarpal bone. The superior surface, concave and smooth, is directed upwards and inwards, and articulates with the scaphoid. The inferior surface,