io62 SUKGICAL ANATOMY OF FEMOEAL HERNIA the ilium to the spine of the os pubis. From this latter point it is reflected outwards, to be attached to the pectineal line for about half an inch, forming Gimbernat's ligament. Its general direction is curved downwards towards the thigh, where it is continuous with the fascia lata. Its outer half is rounded and oblique in direction. Its inner half gradually widens at its attachment to the os pubis, is more horizontal in direction, and lies beneath the spermatic cord. Nearly the whole of the space included between the crural arch and innominate bone is filled in by the parts which descend from the abdomen into the thigh. The outer half of the space is occupied by the Iliacus and Psoas muscles, together with the external cutaneous and anterior crural nerves. The pubic half of the space is Fig. 628.—Femoral hernia. Iliac portion of fascia lata removed, and sheath of femoral vessels and femoral canal exposed. occupied by the femoral vessels included in their sheath ; a small oval-shaped interval existing between the femoral vein and the inner wall of the sheath, which is occupied merely by a little loose areolar tissue, a few lymphatic vessels, and occasionally by a small lymphatic gland : this is the crural ring, through which the gut descends in femoral hernia. Grimbernat's Ligament (fig. 630) is that part of the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle which is reflected downwards and outwards, from the spine of the OS pubis, to be inserted into the pectineal line. It is about half an inch in length, larger in the male than in the female, almost horizontal in direction in the erect posture, and of a triangular form, with the base directed outwards. Its base, or outer margin, is concave, thin, and sharp, and lies in contact with the crural sheath. Its ai^ex corresponds to the spine of the os pubis. Its posterior margin attached to the pectineal line, and is continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Its anterior margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament.