194 THE SKELETON external angular process does not articulate with the malar, and therefore this lateral support to the bones of the face is not i)resent. 4. The zygomatic arch is plainly to be felt throughout its entire length, being situated almost innnediately imder the skin/ It is formed by the malar Innie and the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. At its anterior extremity, where it is formed by the malar bone, it is broad and forms the prominence of the cheek ; the posterior part is narrower, and terminates just in front and a little above the tragus of the external ear. The lower border is more plainly to be felt than the ui)per, in consequence of the dense temporal fascia being attached to the upper border, wliich somewhat obscures its outline. Its shape differs xevy nnich in indi^■iduals and in different races of mankind. In the most degi-aded type of skull—as, for instance, in the skull of the negro of the Guinea Coast—the malar bones project forwards and not outwards, and the zygoma at its posterior extremity extends further outwards before it is twisted on itself to be prolonged forwards. This makes the zygomatic arch stand out in bold relief, and affords greater space for the Temporal nniscle. In skulls which have a more pyramidal shape, as in the Esquimaux or Greenlandcr, the malar bones do not project forwards and downwards under the eyes, as in the preceding form, but take a direction outwards, forming with the zygoma a large, rounded sweep or segment of a circle. Thus it happens that if two lines are drawn from the zygomatic arches, touching the temporal ridges, they meet over the top of the head, instead of being parallel, or nearly so, as in the European skull, in which the zygomatic arches are not nearly so prominent. This gives to the fixce a more or less oval type. 5. Behind the ear is the mastoid j^ortion of the temx)07'al hone, plainly to be felt, and terminating below in a nipple-shaped process. Its anterior border can be traced immediately behind the concha, and its apex is on about a level with the lobule of the ear. It is rudimentary in infancy, but gradually develops in childhood, and is more marked in the negro than in the European. 6. The ertcrnal occijntaljJTotuhcrance is always plainly to be felt just at the level where the skin of the neck joins that of the head. At this point the skull is thick for the purposes of safety, wdiile radiating from it are numerous curved arches or buttresses of bone which give to this portion of the skull further security. 7. Kunning outwards on either side from the external occipital protu- berance is an arched ridge of bone, which can be more or less plainly perceived. This is the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and giA es attachment to some of the muscles whicli keep the head erect on the spine; accordingly, we find it more developed in the negro tribes, in whom the jaws are much more massive, and therefore require stronger muscles to prevent their extra weight carrying the head forwards. Below this line the surface of bone at the back of the head is obscured b}' the overlying muscles. Above it, the vault of the cranium is thinly covered with soft structures, so that the form of this part of the head is almost exactly that of the upper portion of the occipital, the parietal, and the frontal bones themselves ; and, in bald persons, even the lines of junction of the bones, especially the junction of the occipital and parietal at the lambdoid suture, may be defined as a slight depression, caused by the thickening of the borders of the bones in this situation. 8. In the line of the greatest transverse diameter of the head, on each side (^f the middle line, are generally to be foimd the _2JrtriffaZ eminences ; though sometimes these eminences are not situated at the point of the greatest transverse diameter, which is at some other prominent part of the parietal region. They denote the point where ossification of the bone began. They are much more prominent and well-marked in early life, in consequence of the sharper curve of the bone at this period, so that it describes the segment of a smaller circle. Later in life, as the bone grows, the curve spreads out and forms the segment of a larger circle, so tluit the eminence becomes less distinguishable. In consequence of this sharp curve of the bone in early life, the whole of the vault of the skull has a squarer shape than it has in later life, and this appearance may persist in some rickety skulls. The eminence is more apparent in the negi'o's skull than in that of the European. This is due to greater flattening of the temporal fossa in the former skull to accommodate the larger Temporal muscle which exists in these races. The parietal eminence is particularly exposed to injury from blows or falls on the head, but fracture is to a certain extent prevented by the shape of the bone, which forms an arch, so that the force of the blow is diffused over the bone in e\ ery direction. 9. At the side of the head m&y be felt the temj^oral ridge. Commencing at the external angular process, it may be felt as a cm'ved ridge, passing upwards and thei) curving backwards, on the fi'ontal bone, separating the forehead from the temporal fossa. It ma\' then be traced, passing backwards in a curved direction, over the parietal bone, and, though less marked, still generally to be recognised. Finally, the ridge curves downwards, and terminates in the posterior root of the z^^goma, which separates the squamous from the subcutaneous mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Mr. Victor Horsley has recently shown, in an article on the ' Topography of the Cerebral Cortex,' that the second temporal ridge (see page 138) can be made out on the living body. 10. The frontal eminences vary a good deal in different individuals, being considerably more prominent in some than in others, and they are often not synnnetrical on the two sides of the body, the one being much more pronounced than the other. This is often especially noticeable in the skull of the young child or infant, and becomes less marked as age advances. The prominence of the frontal eminences depends more upon the general shape of the whole bone than upon the size of the protuberances themselves. As the skull is more highly developed in consequence of increased intellectual