668 LYMPHATICS of the forearm to the bend of the elbow, where they are jomed by some lymphatics from the outer side of the forearm; they then follow the com-se of the basihc vein, communicate with the glands immediately above the elbow, and terminate in the axillary glands, joining with the deep lymphatics. The superficial lymphatics from the outer and back part of the hand accompany the radial veins to the bend of the elbow. They are less numerous than the preceding. At the bend of the elbow, the greater number join the basihc group ; the rest ascend with the cephalic vein on the outer side of the arm, some crossing the upper part of the Biceps obliquely, to terminate in the axillary glands, whilst one or two accompany the cephalic vein in the cellular interval between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid, and enter the subclavian lymphatic glands. The deep lymphatic vessels of the upper extremity accompany the deep blood- vessels. In the forearm they consist of four sets, corresponding with the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries ; they pass through the glands occasionally found hi the course of those vessels, and communicate at intervals with the superficial lymphatics. In their course upwards, some of them pass through the glands which lie upon the brachial artery; they then enter the axillary and subclavian glands, and at the root of the neck terminate, on the left side, in the thoracic duct, and on the right side in the right lymphatic duct. Lymphatics of the Lower Extremity The Lymphatic Glands of the Lower Extremity are divided into two sets, suioer- ficial and deep. The superficial are confined to the inguinal region, forming the siiioerficial inguinal lymphatic glands. The superficial inguinal lymphatic glands, placed immediately beneath the integument, are of large size, and vary from eight to ten in number. They are divisible into two groups : an upper oblique set, disposed irregularly along Poupart's ligament, which receive the lymphatic vessels from the integument of the scrotum, penis, parietes of the abdomen, perineal and gluteal regions, and the mucous membrane of the urethra; and an inferior vertical set, which surround the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, a few being sometimes continued along the saphenous vein to a variable extent. This latter group receive the superficial lymphatic vessels from the lower extremity. Surgical Anatomy.—These glands frequently become enlarged in diseases implicating the parts from which their lymphatics originate. Thus in malignant or syphilitic affec- tions of the prepuce and penis, or of the labia majora in the female, in cancer scroti, in abscess in the perinsemn, or in any other diseases affecting the integument and superficial structures in those parts, or the subumbilical part of the abdominal wall, or the gluteal region, the upper chain of glands is almost invariably enlarged, the lower chain being implicated in diseases affecting the lower limb. The deep lymphatic glands are, the anterior tibial, popliteal, deep inguinal, gluteal, and ischiatic. The anterior tibial gland is not constant in its existence. It is generally found by the side of the anterior tibial artery, upon the interosseous membrane at the upper part of the leg. Occasionally, two glands are found in this situation. The popliteal glands, four or five in number, are of small size ; they surround the popliteal vessels, embedded in the cellular tissue and fat of the popliteal space. The deep inguinal glands are placed beneath the deep fascia around the femoral artery and vein. They are of small size, and communicate with the superficial inguinal glands through the saphenous opening. The gluteal and ischiatic glands are placed, the former above, the latter below, the Pyriformis muscle, resting on their corresponding vessels as they pass through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. The Lymphatic Vessels of the Lower Extremity, like the veins, may be divided into two sets, superficial and deep. The superficial lymphatic vessels are placed beneath the integument in the