I004 THE URINARY ORGANS then opens by a constricted orifice, after having passed obhqnely for nearly an inch between its muscular and mucous coats. Relations.—In its course it rests upon the Psoas muscle, being covered by the peritoneum, and crossed obliquely, from within outwards, by the spermatic vessels; the right ureter lying close to the outer side of the inferior vena cava. Opposite the first piece of the sacrum it crosses either the common or external iliac artery, lying behind the ileum on the right side and the sigmoid flexure of the colon on the left. In the pelvis it enters the posterior false ligament of the bladder, below the obliterated hypogastric artery, the vas deferens in the male passing between it and the bladder. In the female the ureter passes along the sides and cervix of the uterus and upper part of the vagina. At the base of the bladder it is situated about two inches from its fellow; lying, in the male, about an inch and a half behind the base of the prostate, at the posterior angle of the trigone. Structure.—The ureter is composed of three coats—a fibrous, muscular, and mucous. The fibrous coat is the same throughout the entire length of the duct, being continuous at one end with the capsule of the kidney at the floor of the sinus; whilst at the other it is lost in the fibrous structure of the bladder. In the pelvis of the kidney the muscular coat consists of two layers, longitudinal and circular; the longitudinal fibres become lost upon the sides of the papill^e at the extremities of the calices ; the circular fibres may be traced surrounding the medullary structure in the same situation. In the ureter proper the muscular fibres are very distinct, and are arranged in three layers—an external longitudinal, a middle circular, and an internal layer, less distinct than the other two, but having a general longitudinal direction. According to Kolliker, this internal layer is only found in the neighbourhood of the bladder. The mucous coat is smooth, and presents a few longitudinal folds which become effaced by distension. It is continuous with the mucous membrane of the bladder below, whilst it is prolonged over the papillae of the kidney above. Its epithelium is of a peculiar character, and resembles that found in the bladder. It is known by the name of ' transitional' epithelium. It consists of several layers of cells, of which the innermost—that is to say, the cells in contact with the urine—are quadrilateral in shape, with a concave margin on their outer surface, into which fits the rounded end of the cells of the second layer. These, the inter- mediate cells, more or less resemble columnar epithelium, and are pear-shaped, with a rounded internal extremity which fits into the concavity of the cells of the first layer, and a narrow external extremity which is wedged in between the cells of the third layer. The external or third layer consists of conical or oval cells varying in number in different parts, and presenting processes which extend down into the basement membrane. The arteries supplying the ureter are branches from the renal, spermatic, internal iliac, and inferior vesical. The nerves are derived from the inferior mesenteric, spermatic, and pelvic plexuses. Suprarenal Capsules The Suprarenal Capsules were formerly classified together with the spleen, thymus, and thyroid, under the head of '■ ductless glands,' as they have no excretory duct. They are two small flattened glandular bodies, of a yellowish colour, situated at the back part of the abdomen, behind the peritoneum, and immediately in front of the upper part of each kidney ; hence their name. The right one is somewhat triangular in shape, bearing a resemblance to a cocked hat; the left is more semilunar, and usually larger and higher than the right. They vary in size in different individuals, being sometimes so small as to be scarcely detected : their usual size is from an inch and a quarter to,nearly two inches in length, rather less