ANTERIOR CRURAL 799 communicates, above, with the craral branch of the genito-crural nerve ; and the inner branch with the internal cutaneous nerve below. The Sartorius muscle is su]3plied by this or the following nerve. The internal cutaneous nerve passes obliquely across the upper part of the sheath of the femoral artery, and divides in front, or at the inner side of that vessel, into two branches, anterior and posterior or internal. The anterior branch runs downwards on the Sartorius, perforates the fascia lata at the lower third of the thigh, and divides into two branches : one of which supplies the integument as low down as the inner side of the knee ; the other crosses to the outer side of the patella, communicating in its course with the nervus cutaneus patellae, a branch of the internal saphenous nerve. The posterior or internal branch descends along the inner border of the Sartorius muscle to the knee, where it pierces the fascia lata, communicates with the long saphenous nerve, and gives off several cutaneous branches. The nerve then passes down the inner side of the leg, to the integument of which it is distributed. This nerve, beneath the fascia lata, at the lower border of the Adductor longus, joins in a plexiform network by uniting with branches of the long saphenous and obturator nerves (fig. 467). When the communicating branch from the obturator nerve is large and continued to the integument of the leg, the inner branch of the internal cutaneous is small, and terminates at the plexus, occasionally giving off a few cutaneous filaments. The internal cutaneous nerve, before dividing, gives off' a few filaments, which pierce the fascia lata, to supply the integument of the inner side of the thigh, accompanying the long saphenous vein. One of these filaments passes through the saphenous opening ; a second becomes subcutaneous about the middle of the thigh ; and a third pierces the fascia at its lower third. The long or internal saphenous nerve is the largest of the cutaneous branches of the anterior crural. It approaches the femoral artery where this vessel passes beneath the Sartorius, and lies on its outer side, beneath the aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal, as far as the opening in the lower part of the Adductor magnus. It then quits the artery, and descends vertically along the inner side of the knee, beneath the Sartorius, pierces the fascia lata, opposite the interval between the tendons of the Sartorius and Gracilis, and becomes subcutaneous. The nerve then passes along the inner side of the leg, accompanied by the internal saphenous vein, descends behind the internal border of the tibia, and, at the lower third of the leg, divides into two branches : one continues its course along the margin of the tibia, terminating at the inner ankle ; the other passes in front of the ankle, and is distributed to the integument along the inner side of the foot, as far as the great toe, communicating with the internal branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Branches.—The long saphenous nerve about the middle of the thigh gives off a communicating branch, which joins the plexus formed by the obturator and internal cutaneous nerves. At the inner side of the knee it gives off a large branch [nervus cutaneus patellce) which pierces the Sartorius and fascia lata, and is distributed to the integument in front of the patella. This nerve communicates above the knee with the anterior branch of the internal cutaneous and with the middle cutaneous ; below the knee, with other branches of the long saphenous ; and, on the outer side of the joint, with branches of the external cutaneous nerve, forming a plexiform network, the plexus patellcE. The cutaneous nerve of the patella is occasionally small, and terminates by joining the internal cutaneous, which supplies its place in front of the knee. Beloiu the knee, the branches of the long saphenous nerve are distributed to the integument of the front and inner side of the leg, communicating with the cutaneous branches from the internal cutaneous, or from the obturator nerve. The muscular branches supply the Pectineus and all the muscles on the front of the thigh, except the Tensor vaginas femoris which is supplied from the superior gluteal nerve, and the Sartorius which is supplied by filaments from the middle or internal cutaneous nerves.