356 AETICULATIONS where the vessels and nerves have not been damaged and the patient is young and free from visceral disease. The excision is best performed by two lateral incisions. One com- mencing two and a half inches above the external malleolus, carried down the posterior border of the fibula, round the end of the bone, and then forwards and downwards as far as the calcaneo-cuboid joint, midway between the tip of the external malleolus and the tuberosity on the fifth metatarsal bone. Through this incision the fibula is cleared, the external lateral ligament is divided, and the bone sawn through at the ujDper end of the incision and removed. A similar curved incision is now made on the inner side of the foot, commencing two and a half inches above the lower end of the tibia, carried down the posterior border of the bone, roimd the mternal malleolus and forwards and downwards to the tuberosity of the navicular bone. Through this incision the tibia is cleared in front and behind, the internal lateral, the anterior and posterior ligaments divided, and the end of the tibia protruded through the wound by displacing the foot outwards, and sawn oft' sufficiently high to secure a healthy section of bone. The articular surface of the astragalus is now to be sawn off or the whole bone removed. In cases where the operation is performed for tubercular artliritis, the latter course is probably preferable, as the injury done by the saw is frequentlj^ the starting point of fresh caries ; and after removal of the whole bone the shortening is not appreciably increased, and the result as regards union appears to be as good as when two sawn surfaces of bone are brought into apposition. Y. Articulations of the Tarsus 1. Articulations of the Os Calcis and Astragalus The articulations between the os calcis and astragalus are two in number— anterior and posterior. They are arthrodial joints. The bones are connected together by four ligaments :— External Calcaneo-astragaloid. Posterior Calcaneo-astragaloid. Internal Calcaneo-astragaloid. Interosseous. The External Calcaneo-astragaloid Ligament (fig. 264) is a short, strong, fasciculus, passing from the outer surface of the astragalus, immediately beneath its external malleolar facet, to the outer surface of the os calcis. It is placed in front of the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, with the fibres of which it is parallel. The Internal Calcaneo-astragaloid Ligament is a band of fibres connecting the internal tubercle of the back of the astragalus with the back of the sustentaculum tali. Its fibres blend with those of the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament. The Posterior Calcaneo-astragaloid Ligament (fig. 263) connects the posterior external tubercle of the astragalus Avith the upper and inner part of the os calcis ; it is a short, narrow band, the fibres of which radiate from their narrow attach- ment to the astragalus. The Interosseous Ligament forms the chief bond of union between the bones. It consists of numerous vertical and oblique fibres, attached by one extremity to the groove between the articulating facets on the under surface of the astragalus ; by the other, to a corresponding depression on the upper surface of the os calcis. It is very thick and strong, being at least an inch in breadth from side to side, and serves to unite the os calcis and astragalus solidly together. The Synovial Membranes (fig. 267) are two in number : one for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation ; a second for the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid j oint. The latter synovial membrane is continued forwards between the contiguous surfaces of the astragalus and navicular bones. Actions.—The movements permitted between the astragalus and os calcis are limited to a gliding of the one bone on the other in a direction from before back- wards, and from side to side. 2. Articulations of the Os Calcis with the Cuboid The ligaments connecting the os calcis with the cuboid are four in number:— Dorsal / ^^P^^'^^^' Calcaneo-cuboid. Plantar. \ Internal Calcaneo-cuboid (Interosseous). Long Calcaneo-cuboid. Short Calcaneo-cuboid.