io66 SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA Descent of the Hernia.—From the preceding description it follows that the femoral ring must be a weak point in the abdominal wall: hence it is that, when violent or long-continued pressm'e is made upon the abdominal viscera, a portion of intestine may be forced into it, constituting a femoral hernia; and the changes in the tissues of the abdomen which are produced by pregnancy, together with the larger size of this aperture in the female, serve to explain the frequency of this form of hernia in women. When a portion of the intestine is forced through the femoral ring, it carries before it a pouch of peritoneum, which forms what is called the hernial sac; it receives an investment from the subserous areolar tissue, and from the septum crurale, and descends vertically along the crural canal in the inner compartment of the sheath of the femoral vessels as far as the saphenous opening; at this point it changes its course, being prevented from extending farther down the sheath, on account of the narrowing of the sheath and its close contact with the vessels, and also from the close attachment of the superficial fascia and crural sheath to the lower part of the circumference of the saphenous opening; the tumour is, conse- quently, directed forwards, pushing before it the cribriform fascia, and then curves upwards on to the falciform process of the fascia lata and lower part of the tendon of the External oblique, being covered by the superficial fascia and integument. While the hernia is contained in the femoral canal, it is usually of small size, owing to the resisting nature of the surrounding parts ; but when it has escaped from the saphenous opening into the loose areolar tissue of the groin, it becomes considerably enlarged. The direction taken by a femoral hernia in its descent is at first downwards, then forwards and upwards; this should be borne in mind, as in the application of the taxis for the reduction of a femoral hernia pressure should be directed in the reverse order. Coverings of the Hernia.—The coverings of a femoral hernia, from within outwards, are : peritoneum, subserous areolar tissue, the septum crurale, crural sheath, cribriform fascia, superficial fascia, and integument.* Varieties of Femoral Hernia.—If the intestine descends along the femoral canal only as far as the saphenous opening, and does not escape from this aperture, it is called incomplete femoral hernia. The small size of the protrusion m this form of hernia, on account of the firm and resisting nature of the canal in which it is contained, renders it an exceedingly dangerous variety of the disease, from the extreme difficulty of detecting the existence of the swelling, especially in corpulent subjects. The coverings of an incomplete femoral hernia would be, from without inwards : integument, superficial fascia, falciform process of fascia lata, crural sheath, septum crurale, subserous areolar tissue, and peritoneum. When, however, the hernial tumour protrudes through the saphenous opening, and directs itself forwards and upwards, it forms a complete femoral hernia. Occasionally the hernial sac descends on the iliac side of the femoral vessels, or in front of these vessels, or even sometimes behind them. The seat of stricture of a femoral hernia varies : it may be in the peritoneum at the neck of the hernial sac; in the greater number of cases it would appear to be at the point of junction of the falciform process of the fascia lata with the lunated edge of Gimbernat's ligament; or at the margin of the saphenous opening in the thigh. The stricture should in every case be divided in a direction upwards and inwards ; and the extent necessary in the majority of cases is about two or three lines. By these means, aU vessels or other structures of importance, in relation with the neck of the hernial sac, will be avoided. * Sir Astley Cooper has described an investment for femoral hernia, under the name of ' fascia propria,' lying immediately' external to the peritoneal sac. but frequently separated from it by more or less adipose tissue. Sm-gically, it is important to remember the existence (at any rate, the occasional existence) of this layer, on account of the ease with which an inexperienced operator may mistake the fascia for the peritoneal sac, and the contained fat for omentum. Anatomically, this fascia appears identical with what is called in the text ' subserous areolar tissue,' the areolar tissue being thickened and caused to assume a membranous appearance by the pressure of the hernia.