ORGANS OF DIGESTION gi6 cells, which throughout the intestines are columnar in character. They are granular in appearance, and possess a clear oval nucleus. At their superficial or unattached end they present a distinct layer of highly refracting material, marked by vertical striae, which were formerly believed to be minute channels, by which the chyle was taken up into the interior of the cell, and by them transferred to the lacteal vessels of the mucous membrane. The mucous membrane presents for examination the following structures, contained within it or belonging to it:— Valvulge conniventes. f Duodenal glands. Villi. Glands s Solitary glands. Simple folHcles. L Agminate or Peyer's glands. The valvulse conniventes (valves of Kerkring) are reduplications or foldings of Fig. 533.—Diagrammatic section of a villus. (Watney.) e2). Epithelium only partially shaded in. /. Central chyle-vessel : the cells forming the vessel have been less shaded to distinguish them from the cells of the parenchyma of the villus. 111. Muscle-fibres running up by the side of the chyle-vessel. It will be noticed that each muscle-fibre is surrounded by the reticulum, and by this reticulum the muscles are attached to the cells forming the membrana propria, as at e', or to the reticulum of the villus. /(•. L\till ih-corpuscles, marked by a spherical nucleus and a clear zone of protoplasm. Upper limit of the chyle- v( --(''. r. <, , Cells forming the membrana propria. It will be seen that there is hardly any difference between thi- ci-ll- 111 the parenchyma, tlie endothelium of the iij^per part of the chyle-vessel, and the cells of the membrana propria. V. Blood-vessels, z. Dark line at the base of the epithelium formed by the reticulum. It will be seen that the reticulum penetrates between all the other elements of the villus. The reticulum contains thickenings or ' nodal points.' The diagram shows that the cells of the upper part of the villus are larger and contain a larger zone of protoplasm than those of the lower part. The cells of the upper part of the chyle-vessel difirer somewhat from tliose of the loAver part, in that they more nearly resemble the cells of the parenchyma. the mucous membrane and submucous tissue. Unlike the folds in the stomach they are permanent, and are not obliterated when the intestine is distended. They extend transversely across the cylinder of the intestine for about one-half or two-thirds of its circumference. The larger folds are about two inches in. length, and one-third of an inch in depth at their broadest part; but the greater number are of smaller size. The larger and smaller folds alternate with each^ other. They are not found at the commencement of the duodenum, but begin t( appear about one or two inches beyond the pylorus. In the lower part of th( descending portion, below the point where the common choledic and pancreatic