AKTERIES 544 hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, which, together with the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid, conceal the lower part of the common carotid artery.* This vessel is enclosed within its sheath, together with the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve ; the vein lying on the outer side of the artery on the right side of the neck, but overlapping it, or passing directly across it on the left side; the nerve lying between the artery and vein, on a plane posterior to both. In front of the sheath are a few filaments descending from the loop of communication between the descendens and communicans Jaypogiossi; behind the sheath are seen the inferior thyroid artery, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the sympathetic nerve; and on its inner side, the trachea, the thyroid gland—much more prominent in the female than in the male—and the lower part of the larynx. By cutting into the upper part of this space, and slightly displacing the Sterno- mastoid muscle, the common carotid artery may be tied below the Omo-hyoid muscle. The floor of the inferior carotid triangle is formed by the Longus colli muscle below, and by the Scalenus anticus above (see fig. 284, page 401), between which muscles the vertebral artery and vein will be found passing into the foramen in the sixth transverse process ; a small portion of the origin of the Rectus capitis anticus major may also be seen in the floor of the space. The Superior Carotid Triangle is bounded, behind, by the Sterno-mastoid; below, by the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid; and above by the posterior belly of the Digastric muscle. It is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia; ramifying between which are branches of the facial and superficialis colli nerves. Its floor is formed by parts of the Thyro-hyoid, Hyo-glossus, and the inferior and middle Constrictor muscles of the pharynx. This space contains the upper part of the common carotid artery, which bifurcates opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage into the external and internal carotid. These vessels are occasionally somewhat concealed from view by the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, which overlaps them. The external and internal carotids lie side by side, the external being the more anterior of the two. The following branches of the external carotid are also met with in this space: the superior thyroid, running forwards and downwards; the lingual, directly forwards; the facial, forwards and upwards; the occipital, backwards; and the ascending pharyngeal directly upwards on the inner side of the internal carotid. The veins met with are : the internal jugular, which lies on the outer side of the common and internal carotid arteries ; and veins corresponding to the above-mentioned branches of the external carotid—viz. the superior thyroid, the lingual, facial, ascending pharyngeal, and sometimes the occipital—all of which accompany their corresponding arteries, and terminate in the internal jugular. The nerves in this space are the following : In front of the sheath of the common carotid is the descendens hypogiossi. The hypoglossal nerve crosses both carotids above, curving round the occipital artery at its origin. Within the sheath, between the artery and vein, and behind both, is the pneumogastric nerve ; behind the sheath, the sympathetic. On the outer side of the vessels, the spinal accessory nerve runs for a short distance before it pierces the Sterno-mastoid muscle; and on the inner side of the external carotid, just below the hyoid bone, may be seen the superior laryngeal nerve; and, still more inferiorly, the external laryngeal nerve. The upper part of the larynx and lower part of the pharynx are also found in the front part of this space. The Submaxillary Triangle corresponds to the part of the neck immediately beneath the body of the jaw. It is bounded, above, by the lower border of the body of the jaw, and a line drawn from its angle to the mastoid process; below, by the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles ; in front, by the * Therefore the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein are not, strictly speaking, contained in this triangle, since they are covered by the Scerno-niastoid muscle ; that is to say, lie behind the anterior l^order of that muscle, which forms the posterior border of the triangle. But as they lie very close to the structures which are really con- tained in the triangle, and whose position it is essential to remember in operating on this part of the artery, it has seemed expedient to study the relations of all these parts together.