865 INTEENAL EAE supplies the membrana tympani; the Vidian, and the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular, which supplies the back part of the tympanum and mastoid cells. The smaller branches are—the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal, which enters through the hiatus Fallopii; a branch from the ascending pharyngeal and another from the Vidian which pass up the Eustachian tube ; and the tympanic branch from the internal carotid, given oE in the carotid canal and perforating the thin anterior wall of the tympanum. The veins of the tympanum terminate in the temporo-maxillary vein and in the superior petrosal sinus. The nerves of the tympanum may be divided into—i. Those supplying the muscles ; 2. those distributed to the lining membrane ; 3. branches communicating with other nerves. Nerves to nmscles.—The Tensor tympani is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion ; the Stapedius by the tympanic branch of the facial (Sommerring). The nerves distributed to the lining membrane are derived from the tympanic plexus. The communications which take place in the tympanum are between the tympanic branch of the giosso-pharyngeal with the sympathetic and with filaments derived from the intumescentia ganglioformis of the facial. The tyiJipanic branch of the glosso-ijharyngeal (Jacobson's nerve) enters the tympanum by an aperture in its floor, close to the inner wall, and divides into branches, which are contained in grooves upon the surface of the promontory forming the tympanic plexus. Its branches of distribution are, one to the fenestra rotunda, one to the fenestra ovalis, and one to the lining membrane of the tympanum and Eustachian tube. Its branches of communication are three, and occupy separate grooves on the surface of the promontory. One branch, the small deep petrosal, arches forwards and downwards to the carotid canal to join the carotid plexus. A second, the long petrosal nerve, runs forwards through a canal close to or in the processus cochleari- formis, and enters the foramen lacerum medium, where it joins the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, and generally the large superficial petrosal nerve. The third branch runs upwards through the substance of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In its course it passes by the gangliform enlargement of the facial nerve, and, receiving a connecting filament from it, becomes the small superficial petrosal nerve. It then enters the skull through a small aperture, situated external to the hiatus Fallopii on the anterior surface of the petrous bone ; courses forwards across the base of the skull, and emerges through a foramen in the middle fossa (sometimes through the foramen ovale), and joins the otic ganglion. The chorda tympani is given off from the facial, as it passes vertically down- wards at the back of the tympanum, about a quarter of an inch before its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. It passes from below upwards and forwards in a distinct canal, and enters the cavity of the tympanum through an aperture, iter chordcB poster ins, on its posterior wall between the opening of the mastoid cells and the attachment of the membrana tympani, and becomes invested with mucous membrane. It passes forwards through the cavity of the tympanum, between the handle of the malleus and vertical ramus of the incus, to its anterior inferior angle, and emerges from that cavity through a foramen at the inner end of the Glaserian fissure, which is called the iter chordae anterius, or canal of Huguier. Internal Eae, or Labyrinth The internal ear is the essential part of the organ, receiving the ultimate distribution of the auditory nerve. It is called the labyrinth, from the complexity of its shape, and consists of three parts : the vestibule, semicircular canals, and cochlea. It is formed by a series of cavities, channelled out of the substance of the petrous bone, communicating externally with the cavity of the tympanum through the fenestra ovalis and rotunda ; and internally with the meatus auditorius internus, 3K