217 SCAPULA under surface is smooth and concave. Its outer border, is thick and irregular, and presents three or four tubercles for the tendinous origins of the Deltoid muscle. Its inner margin, shorter than the outer, is concave, gives attachment to a portion of the Trapezius muscle, and presents about its centre a small, oval surface for articulation with the acromial end of the clavicle. Its apex, which corresponds to the point of meeting of these two borders in front, is thin, and has attached to it the coraco-acromial ligament. Of the three borders or costae of the scapula, the superior is the shortest and thinnest; it is concave, terminating at its inner extremity at the superior angle, at its outer extremity at the coracoid process. At its outer part is a deep, semicircular notch, the supra scapular, formed partly by the base of the coracoid process. This notch is converted into a foramen by the transverse ligament, and serves for the passage of the suprascapular nerve. The adjacent margin of the superior border affords attachment to the Omo-hyoid muscle. The external, or axillary, border is the thickest of the three. It commences above at the lower margin of the glenoid cavity, and inclines obliquely downwards and backwards to the inferior angle. Immediately below the glenoid cavity is a rough impression (the infra-glenoid tubercle), about an inch in length, which affords attachment to the long head of the Triceps muscle ; to this succeeds a longitudinal groove, which extends as far as its lower third, and affords origin to part of the Subscapularis muscle. The inferior third of this border, which is thin and sharp, serves for the attachment of a few fibres of the Teres major behind, and of the Subscapularis in front. The internal, or vertebral, border, also named the base, is the longest of the three, and extends from the superior to the inferior angle of the bone. It is arched, intermediate in thickness between the superior and the external borders, and the portion of it above the spine is bent considerably outwards, so as to form an obtuse angle with the lower part. The vertebral border presents an anterior lip, a posterior lip, and an intermediate space. The anterior Up affords attachment to the Serratus magnus ; the posterior lip, to the Supraspinatus above the spine, the Infraspinatus below ; the interval between the two lips, to the Levator anguli scapulae above the triangular surface at the commencement of the spine, the Khomboideus minor to the edge of that surface ; the Khomboideus major being- attached by means of a fibrous arch, connected above to the lower part of the triangular surface at the base of the spine, and below to the lower part of the posterior border. Of the three angles, the superior, formed by the junction of the superior and internal borders, is thin, smooth, rounded, somewhat inclined outwards, and gives attachment to a few fibres of the Levator anguli scapulae muscle. The inferior angle, thick and rough, is formed by the union of the vertebral and axillary borders, its outer surface affording attachment to the Teres major and occasionally a few fibres of the Latissimus dorsi. The anterior angle is the thickest part of the bone, and forms what is called the head of the scapula. The head presents a shallow, pyriform, articular surface, the glenoid cavity {yXrjvr], a socket), whose longest diameter is from above downwards, and its direction outwards and forwards. It is broader below than above ; at its apex is a slight impression (the supra-glenoid tubercle), to which is attached the long tendon of the Biceps muscle. It is covered with cartilage in the recent state ; and its margins, slightly raised, give attachment to a fibro-cartilaginous structure, the glenoid ligament, by which its cavity is deepened. The neck of the scapula is the slightly depressed surface which surrounds the head; it is more distinct on the posterior than on the anterior surface, and below than above. In the latter situation it has, arising from it, a thick prominence, the coracoid process. The Coracoid Process, so called from its fancied resemblance to a crow's beak (Kopa^, a crow), is a thick, curved process of bone, which arises by a broad base from the upper part of the neck of the scapula ; it is directed at first upwards and inwards ; then, becoming smaller, it changes its direction, and passes forwards and outwards. The ascending portion, flattened from before backwards, presents