848 ORGANS OF SENSE ligament. It is a delicate structureless membrane, except where it forms the suspensory ligament, where it contains longitudinal elastic fibres. Immediately beneath the hyaloid membrane are found small, granular, nucleated cells, which are said to be possessed of amoeboid movements. In the fcetus, the centre of the vitreous humour presents a tubular canal, through which a minute artery passes along the vitreous body to the capsule of the lens. In the adult, no vessels penetrate its substance ; so that its nutrition must be carried on by the vessels of the retina and ciliary processes, situated upon its exterior. Cbystalline Lens and its Capsule The crystalline lens, enclosed in its capsule, is situated immediately behind the pupil, in front of the vitreous body, and surrounded by the ciliary processes, which slightly overlap its margin. The capsule of the lens is a transparent, highly elastic, and brittle membrane, which closely surrounds the lens. It rests, behind, in a depression in the fore part of the vitreous body; in front, it is in contact with the free border of the iris, this latter receding from it at the circumference, thus forming the posterior chamber of the eye ; and it is retained in its position chiefly by the suspensory ligament of the lens. The capsule is much thicker in front than behind, structureless in texture ; and when ruptured, the edges roll up with the outer surface innermost, like the elastic lamina of the cornea. The anterior surface of the lens is connected to the inner surface of the capsule by a single layer of transparent, polygonal, nucleated cells. At the circumference of the lens, these Fig. 496.—The crystalline lens, cells undergo a change in form: they become hardened and divided. elongated, and Babucin states that he can trace (Enlarged.) the gradual transition of the cells into proper lens-fibres, with which they are directly con- tinuous. There is no epithelium on the pos- terior surface. In the foetus, a small branch from the arteria centralis retinae runs forwards, as al- ready mentioned, through the vitreous humour to the posterior part of the capsule of the lens, where its branches radiate and form a plexiform network, which covers its surface, and they are continuous round the margin of the capsule with the vessels of the pupillary membrane, and with those of the iris. In the adult no vessels enter its substance. The lens is a transparent, double-convex body, the convexity being greater on the posterior than on the anterior surface. It measures about a third of an inch in the transverse diameter, and about one-fourth jin the antero-posterior. It consists of concentric layers, of which the external in the fresh state are soft and easily detached; those beneath are firmer, the central ones forming a hardened nucleus. These laminae are best demonstrated by boiling, or immersion in alcohol. The same reagents demonstrate that the lens consists of three triangular segments, the sharp edges of which are directed towards the centre, the bases towards the circumference. The laminas consist of minute parallel fibres, which are hexagonal prisms, the edges being dentated, and the dentations fitting accurately into each other; their breadth is about ^-Q^-th of an inch. They run from the sutures or lines of junction of the triangular segments, on the one surface, to the periphery of the lens, and, curving round its margin, they terminate at the line of junction of the segments on the other. No fibres pass from pole to pole, but they are arranged in such a way that fibres which commence near the pole on the one aspect of the lens—that is to say, near the apex of the triangular segment— terminate near the peripheral extremity of the plane on the other, or near the base of the triangular segment, and vice versa. The fibres of the outer layers of the