857 THE EAR parts by the commencement of the hehx. In front of the concha, and projecting backwards over the meatus, is a small pointed eminence, the tragus : so called from its being generally covered on its under surface with a tuft of hair, resem- bling a goat's beard. Opposite the tragus, and separated from it by a deep notch {incisura mtertragica), is a small tubercle, the antitragus. Below this is the lobule, composed of tough areolar and adipose tissue, wanting the firmness and elasticity of the rest of the pinna. Structure of the pinna.—The pinna is composed of a thin plate of yellow fibro- cartilage, covered with integument, and connected to the surrounding parts by the extrinsic ligaments and muscles; and to the commencement of the external auditory canal. The integument is thin, closely adherent to the cartilage, and furnished with sebaceous glands, which are most numerous in the concha and scaphoid fossa. The cartilage of the pinna consists of one single piece : it gives form to this Fig. 499.—The pinna, or auricle. Fig. 500.—The muscles of the pinna. Outer surface. thus it does not form a constituent part of the lobule ; it is deficient, also, between the tragus and beginning of the helix, the notch between them being filled up by dense fibrous tissue. At the front part of the pinna, where the helix bends upwards, is a small projection of cartilage, called the process of the helix. The cartilage of the pinna presents several intervals or fissures in its substance, which partially separate the different parts. The fissure of the helix is a short vertical slit, situated at the fore part of the pinna, immedi- ately behind a small conical projection of cartilage, opposite the first curve of the helix (process of the helix). Another fissure, the fissure of the tragus, is seen upon the anterior surface of the tragus. The antihelix is divided below, by a deep fissure, into two parts: one part terminates by a pointed, tail-like extremity [processus caudatus); the other is continuous with the antitragus. The cartilage of the pinna is very pliable, elastic, of a yellowish colour, and belongs to that form of cartilage which is known under the name of yellow fibro-cartilage. The ligaments of the pinna consist of two sets :—i. The extrinsic set, or those connecting it to the side of the head. 2. The intrinsic set, or those connecting the various parts of its cartilage together.