CONNECTIVE TISSUES 15 Areolar tissue is so called because its meshes are easily distended, and thus separated into areolae or spaces, which all open freely into each other, and are consequently easily blown up with air, or permeated by fluid, when injected Fig. 16.—Yellow elastic tissue. High power, into any part of the tissue. Such spaces, however, do not exist in the natural condition of the body, but the whole tissue forms one unbroken mem- brane composed of a number of inter- lacing fibres, variously superimposed. Hence the term ' the cellular mem- brane ' is in many parts of the body more appropriate than its more modern equivalent. The chief use of the are- olar tissue is to bind parts together ; while by the laxity of its fibres, and the permeability of its areolae, it allows them to move on each other, and affords a ready exit for inflammatory and other effused fluids. It is one of the most extensively distributed of all the tissues in the body. It is found beneath the skin, in a continuous layer all over the body, connecting it to the subjacent parts. In the same way it is situated beneath the mucous and serous membranes. It is also found between muscles, vessels, and nerves, forming investing sheaths for them, and connecting them with surrounding structures. In addition to this, it is found in the interior of organs, binding together the various lobes and lobules of the compound glands, the various coats of the hollow viscera, and the fibres of muscles &c., and thus forms one of the most important connecting media of the various structures or organs of which the body is made up. In many parts the areolas or interspaces of areolar tissue are occu- pied by fat-cells, constituting adiijose tissue, which will presently be described. Areolar tissue presents to the naked eye a flocculent appearance, somewhat like spun-silk. When stretched out, it is seen to consist of delicate soft elastic threads interlacing with each other in every direction, and forming a network of extreme delicacy. When examined under the microscope it is found to be composed of white fibres and elastic fibres intercrossing in all directions, and united together by a homoge- neous cement or ground-substance, and filled by cellular elements, which contain the protoplasm out of which the whole is developed and regenerated. Fig. 17.—Connective-tissue corpuscles. (Klein and Noble Smith.) m. Migratory connective-tissue cell. The other two are the ordinary branched cells, each with an oblong nucleus. These cell-spaces may be brought into view by treating the tissue with nitrate of silver, and exposing it to the hght. This will colour the fibres and ground-substance, leaving the cell-spaces unstained. The cells of areolar tissue (fig. 17) are of two kinds: i, flattened transparent cells, with an oblong nucleus and more or less branched, and often united together