MUSCLES AND FASCIA 468 and part of the tendon of the Flexor carpi uhiaris, and has arismg from it, below, the small muscles of the thmnb and httle finger. Beneath it pass the tendons of the Flexor sublimis and Fig. 312.—Transverse section through the carpus, showing the relative positions of the tendons, vessels, and nerves. (Henle.) ANNUiftR U&. FLEX. tON FLEX. CARP. RAD MUSCLES OF THUMB MEDIAN NEf?X/E LNAR VESSELS PALMftRlS BREV. MUSCLES 0»=- LITTLE FIMGE« TRAPE2(UM RADIAL VESSELS PKT.CAFfP. i?AO. LONG TRAPEZOID eXT, CARP. KAD. BRE.V XT. COM. 010.. EXT. SNOiCiS 03 MA&NUM Fig. of the fingers. profundus digitorum, the Flexor longus pol- licis, and the median nerve. The Synovial Mem- branes of the Flexor Tendons at the Wrist.— There are two synovial membranes which en- close all the tendons as they pass beneath this ligament, one for the Flexor sublimis and profundus digitorum, the other for the Flexor longus pollicis. They extend up into the fore- arm for about an inch above the annular liga- ment, and downwards about half-way along the metacarpal bone, where they terminate in a blind diverticulum around each pair of tendons, with the exception of the thumb and sometimes the little finger ; in these two fingers the diverticulum is continued on and communicates with the synovial sheath of the tendons. In the other three fingers the synovial sheath of the tendons in the fingers begins as a blind pouch without communication with the large synovial sac (fig. 313). Surgical Anatomy.—This arrange- ment of the synovial sheaths explains the fact that thecal abscess in the thumb and little finger is liable to be followed by abscesses in the forearm, from extension of the inflammation along the continuous synovial sheaths. Ganglion is apt to occur in this situa- tion, constituting ' compound palmar ganglion' : it presents an hour-glass outline, with a swelling in front of the v/rist and in the palm of the hand, and a constriction corresponding to the • annular ligament between the two. The fluid can be forced from the one swell- ing to the other under the ligament. The Posterior Annular Liga- ment is a strong, fibrous band, ex- \ ' tending transversely across the back I \^ I of the wrist, and consisting of the 1 ~ — - I (jggp fagcia of the back of the fore- arm, strengthened by the addition of some transverse fibres. It forms a sheath for the extensor tendons in their passage to the fingers, being attached, internally, to the styloid process of the ulna, the cuneiform and pisiform bones; externally, to the margin of the radius ; and, in its passage across the wrist, to the elevated ridges on the posterior surface of the radius. It presents six compart- —Diagram showing the arrangement synovial sheaths of the palm and