ii6 THE SKELETON two divisions being often of unequal size. They increase in length from the fourth to the seventh. The articular i^rocesses are oblique: the superior are of an oval form, flattened, and directed backwards and upwards ; the inferior forwards and downwards. The transverse processes are short, directed downwards, outwards. Fict. 109.—Cervical vertebra. Anterior tubercle of trans- verse process Foramen for vertebral artery Posterior tubercle of— transverse process Transverse process Superior articular jjrocess I)iferior articu larj^rocess and forwards, bifid at their extremity, and marked by a groove along their upper surface, which runs downwards and outwards from the superior intervertebral notch, and serves for the transmission of one of the cervical nerves. They are situated in front of the articular processes and on the outer side of the pedicles. The transverse processes are pierced at their base by a foramen, for the trans- mission of the vertebral artery, vein, and plexus of nerves. Each process is formed by two roots : the anterior root, sometimes called the costal process, arises from the side of the body, and is the homologue of the rib in the dorsal region of the spine ; the posterior root springs from the junction of the pedicle with the lamina, Fig. no.—First cervical vertebra, or Atlas. and corresponds with the transverse process in the dorsal region. It is by the junction of the two that the foramen for the vertebral vessels is formed. The extremity of each of these roots forms the anterior and posterior tubercles of the transverse processes.* The peculiar vertebrse in the cervical region are the first, or Atlas ; the second, or Axis ; and the seventh, or Vertebra prominens. The great modifxcations in the The anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is of large size, and is sometimes known as ' Chassaignac's ' or the ' carotid tubercle.' It is in close relation with the carotid artery, which lies in front and a little external to it; so that, as was first pointed out by Chassaignac, the vessel can with ease be compressed against it.