55 THE VASCULAK SYSTEM have been named the rootlets of the lymphatics, and are identical with the spaces in which the connective-tissue corpuscles are contained. This then is properly regarded as one method of their commencement, when the lymphatic vessels are apparently continuous with spaces in the connective tissue, and Klein has described and figured a direct communication between these spaces and the lymphatic vessel.* But the lymphatics have also other modes of origin, for the intestinal lacteals commence by closed extremities, though some observers believe that the closed extremity is continuous with a minute network contained in the substance of the villus, through which the lacteal is connected wath the epithelial cells covering it. Again, it seems now to be conclusively proved that the serous membranes present stomata or openings between the epithelial cells (fig. 62) by which there is an open communication with the lymphatic system and through which the lymph is thought to be pumped by the ultimate dilatation and contraction of the serous surface, due to the movements of respiration and circulation,! so that the serous and synovial sacs may be regarded, in a certain sense, as large lymph cavities or sinuses. Von Recklinghausen was the first to observe the passage of milk and other coloured fluids through these stomata on the peritoneal surface of the central tendon of the diaphragm. Again, in most glandular structures the lymphatic capillaries have a lacunar origin. Here they begin in irregular clefts or spaces in the tissue of the part; occupying the penetrating connective tissue and surrounding the lacunae or tubules of the gland, and in many places separating the capillary network from the alveolus or tubule, so that the interchange between the blood and the secreting cells of the part must be carried on through this lymph- space or lacuna. Closely allied to this is the mode of origin of lymphatics in perivascular and perineural spaces. Sometimes a minute artery may be seen to be ensheathed for a certain distance by a lymphatic capillary vessel, which is often many times wider than a blood capillary. These are known as perivascular lymphatics. Terminations of lymphatics.—The lymphatics, including the lacteals, discharge tiheir contents into the veins at two points ; namely, at the angles of junction of the subclavian and internal jugular veins : on the left side by means of the thoracic duct, and on the right side by the right lymphatic duct. (See description of lymphatics on a subsequent page.) Lymphatic glands [conglobate glands) are small oval or bean-shaped bodies, situated in the course of lymphatic and lacteal vessels, so that the lymph and chyle pass through them on their way to the blood. They generally present on one side a slight depression—the hilum—through which the blood-vessels enter and leave the interior. The efferent lymphatic vessel also emerges from the gland at this spot, while the afferent vessels enter the organ at different parts of the periphery. On section (fig. 63), a lymphatic gland displays two different structures: an external, of lighter colour—the cortical; and an internal, darker—the medullary. The cortical structure does not form a complete investment, but is deficient at the hilum, where the medullary portion reaches the surface of the gland ; so that the efferent vessel is derived directly from the medullary structure, while the afferent vessels empty themselves into the cortical substance. Lymphatic glands consist of (i) a fibrous envelope, or capsule, from which a framework of processes (trabeculce) proceed inwards, dividing the gland into open spaces (alveoli) freely communicating with each other ; (2) a quantity of adenoid tissue occupying these spaces without completely filling them ; (3) a free supply of blood-vessels, which are supported on the trabeculce ; and (4) the afferent and efferent vessels. Little is known of the nerves, though KoUiker describes some fine nervous filaments passing into the hilum. The capsule is composed of a layer of connective tissue, and from its internal * Atlas of Histology, pi. viii. fig. xiv. t The resemblance between lymph and serum led Hewson long ago to regard the serous cavities as sacs into which the lymphatics open. Eecent microscopic discoveries confirm this opinion in a very interesting manner.