6oo ARTEKIES and the sacrum, into two branches, the external and internal iliac arteries : the former supplying the lower extremity; the latter, the viscera and parietes of the pelvis. The right common iliac is somewhat larger than the left, and passes more obliquely across the body of the last lumbar vertebra. In front of it are the peritoneum, the small intestines, branches of the sympathetic nerve, and, at its point of division, the ureter. Behind, it is separated from the last lumbar vertebra by the two common iliac veins. On its outer side, it is in relation with the inferior vena cava, and the right common iliac vein, above ; and the Psoas magnus muscle below. The left common iliac is in relation, in front, with the peritoneum, branches of the sympathetic nerve, and the superior haemorrhoidal artery; and is crossed at its point of bifurcation by the ureter. The left common iliac vein lies partly on the inner side, and partly beneath the artery ; on its outer side, the artery is in relation with the Psoas magnus muscle. ^ Plan of the Eelations of the Common Iliac Artekies In front. Peritoneum. Small intestines. Sympathetic nerves. Ureter. Outer side. Vena cava. Right common iliac vein. Psoas muscle. I7iner side. Left common iliac vein. In fron t. Peritoneum. Sympathetic nerves. Superior haemorrlioidal artery. Ureter. Outer side. Psoas muscle. Behind. Last lumbar vertebra. Right and left common iliac veins. Behind. Last lumbar vertebra. Left common iliac vein. Branches.—The common iliac arteries give off small branches to the peritoneum, Psoas magnus, ureters, and the surrounding cellular tissue, and occasionally give origin to the ilio-lumbar, or renal arteries. Peculiarities.—The point of origin varies according to the bifurcation of the aorta. In three-fourths of a large number of cases, the aorta bifurcated either upon the fourth lumbar vertebra, or upon the intervertebral disc between it and the fifth ; the bifurcation being, in one case out of nine below, and in one out of eleven above this point. In ten out of every thirteen cases, the vessel bifurcated within half an inch above or below the level of the crest of the ilium : more frequently below than above. The jpom^ of division is subject to great variety. In two-thirds of a large number of cases it was between the last lumbar vertebra and the upper border of the sacrum ; being above that point in one case out of eight, and below it in one case out of six. The left common iliac artery divides lower down more frequently than the right. The relative length, also, of the two common iliac arteries varies. The right common iliac was the longer in sixty-three cases; the left in fifty-two; whilst they were both equal in fifty-three. The length of the arteries varied in five-sevenths of the cases examined, from an inch and a half to three inches; in about half of the remaining cases, the artery was longer, and in the other half, shorter : the minimum length being less than half an inch, the maximum four and a half inches. In two instances, the right common ihac has been found wanting, the external and internal iliacs arising directly from the aorta. Surface MarJcing.—Draw a zone round the body opposite the highest part of the crest of the ilium ; in this line take a point half an inch to the left of the middle line. From this draw two lines to points midway between the anterior superior spines of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. These two diverging lines will represent the course of the common and external iliac arteries. Draw a second zone romid the body corresponding to the level of the anterior superior spines of the ilium : the portion of the diverging lines between the two zones will represent the course of the common iliac artery ; the portion below the lower zone, that of the external iliac artery. Surgical Anatomy.—The application of a ligature to the common iliac artery may be