663 OF THE HEAD, FACE, AND NECK upper orifice of the thorax. Opposite the seventh cervical vertebra, it turns outwards, and then curves downwards over the subclavian artery, and in front of the Scalenus anticus muscle, so as to form an arch ; and terminates in the left subclavian vein, at its angle of junction with the left internal jugular vein. The thoracic duct, at its commencement, is about equal in size to the diameter of a goose-quill, diminishes considerably in its calibre in the middle of the thorax, and is again dilated just before its termination. It is generally flexuous in its course, and constricted at intervals so as to present a varicose appearance. The thoracic duct not unfrequently divides in the middle of its course into two branches of unequal size, which soon reunite, or into several branches which form a plexiform interlacement. It occasionally divides, at its upper part, into two branches, of which the one on the left side terminates in the usual manner, while that on the right opens into the right subclavian vein, in connection with the right lymphatic duct. The thoracic duct has numerous valves throughout its whole course, but they are more numerous in the upper than in the lower part: at its termination it is provided with a pair of valves, the free borders of which are turned towards the vein, so as to prevent the passage of venous blood into the duct. Tributaries.—^The thoracic duct, at its commencement, receives four or five large trunks from the abdominal lymphatic glands, and also the trunk of the lacteal vessels. Within the thorax, it is joined by the lymphatic vessels from the left half of the wall of the thoracic cavity, the lymphatics from the sternal and intercostal glands, those of the left lung, left side of the heart, trachea, and oesophagus ; and, just before its termination, it receives the lymphatics of the left side of the head and neck, and left u^^per extremity. Structure (fig. 61).—The thoracic duct is composed of three coats, which differ in some respects from those of the lymphatic vessels. The internal coat consists of a single layer of flattened lanceolate-shaped endothelial cells, with serrated borders ; of a subendothelial layer similar to that found in the arteries ; and an elastic fibrous coat, the fibres of which run in a longitudinal direction. The middle coat consists of a longitudinal layer of white connective tissue with elastic fibres, external to which are several lamina of muscular tissue, the fibres of which are for the most part disposed transversely, but some are oblique or longitudinal, and intermixed with elastic fibres. The external coat is composed of areolar tissue, with elastic fibres and isolated fasciculi of muscular fibres. The Right Lymphatic Duct is a short trunk, about half an inch in length, and a line or a line and a half in diameter. It terminates in the right subclavian vein, at its angle of junction with the right internal jugular vein. Its orifice is guarded by two semilunar valves, which prevent the passage of venous blood into the duct. Tributaries.—It receives the lymph from the right side of the head and neck, the right upper extremity, the right side of the thorax, the right lung and right side of the heart, and from part of the convex surface of the liver. Lymphatics of the Head, Face, and Neck The Lymphatic Glands of the Head (fig. 395) are of small size, few in number, and confined to its posterior region. They are the occijntal, and posterior auricular. The occijyital set are placed at the back of the head along the attach- ment of the Occipito-frontalis muscle. The j^osterior auricular set are placed near the upper end of the Sterno-mastoid muscle. Both these sets of glands are affected in cutaneous eruptions and other diseases of the scalp. In the face, the superficial lymphatic glands are more numerous : they are the ijarotid, some of which are superficial and others deeply placed in the substance of the parotid gland ; the zygomatic, situated under the zygoma ; the buccal, on the surface of the Buccinator muscle ; and the interiial maxiilary, the largest, beneath the ramus of the lower jaw. The lymphatic vessels of the scalp are divided into an anterior and ijosterior set, which follow the course of the temporal and occipital vessels. The temporal