CRANIAL NERVES 758 Stylo-hyoicl muscle about its middle; it communicates with the sympathetic filaments on the external carotid artery. The Temporo-facial, the larger of the two terminal branches, passes upwards and forwards through the parotid gland, crosses the external carotid artery and temporo-maxillary vein, and passes over the neck of the condyle of the jaw, being connected in this situation with the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, and divides into branches, which are distributed over the temple and upper part of the face ; these are divided into three sets : temporal, malar, and infra-orbital. The temporal branches cross the zygoma to the temporal region, supplying the Attrahens and Attollens aurem muscles, and join with the temporal branch of the temporo-maxillary, a branch of the superior maxillary, and with the auriculo- temporal branch of the inferior maxillary. The more anterior branches supply the frontal portion of the Occipito-frontalis, the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and Corrugator supercilii muscles, joining with the supra-orbital and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic. The malar branches pass across the malar bone to the outer angle of the orbit, where they supply the Orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, joining with filaments from the lachrymal nerve ; others supply the lower eyelid, joining with filaments of the malar branch [subcutaneus malce) of the superior maxillary nerve. The infra-orbital, of larger size than the rest, pass horizontally forwards to be distributed between the lower margin of the orbit and the mouth. The superficial branches run beneath the skin and above the superficial muscles of the face which they supply : some branches are distributed to the Pyramidalis nasi, joining at the inner angle of the orbit with the infra trochlear and nasal branches of the ophthalmic. The deep branches pass beneath the Zygomatici and the Levator labii superioris, supplying them and the Levator anguli oris, and form a plexus (infra- orbital) by joining with the infra-orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve and the buccal branches of the cervico-facial. This branch also supplies the Levator labii superioris algeque nasi and the small muscles of the nose. The Cervico-facial division of the facial nerve passes obliquely downwards and forwards through the parotid gland, crossing the external carotid artery. In this situation it is joined by branches from the great auricular nerve. Opposite the angle of the lower jaw it divides into branches which are distributed on the lower half of the face and upper part of the neck. These may be divided into three sets : buccal, supramaxillary, and inframaxillary. The buccal branches cross the Masseter muscle. They supply the Buccinator and Orbicularis oris, and join with the infra-orbital branches of the temporo-facial division of the nerve, and with filaments of the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The supramaxillary branches pass forwards beneath the Platysma and Depressor anguli oris, supplying the muscles of the lower lip and chin, and communicating with the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve. The inframaxillary branches run forward beneath the Platysma, and form a series of arches across the side of the neck over the suprahyoid region. One of these branches descends vertically to join with the superficialis colli nerve from the cervical plexus ; others supply the Platysma. Surgical Anatomy.—The facial nerve is more frequently'- paralysed than any of the other of the cranial nerves. The paralysis may depend either upon (i) central causes, i.e. blood clots or intracranial tumours pressing on the nerve before its entrance into the internal auditory meatus. It is also one of the nerves involved in ' bulbar paralysis.' Or (2) it may be paralysed in its passage through the petrous bone, by damage due to middle ear disease, or by fractures of the base. Or (3) it may be affected at or after its exit from the stj'lo-mastoid foramen. This is commonly known as ' Bell's paralysis.' It may be due to exposure to cold or to injury of the nerve, either from accidental wounds of the face, or during some surgical operation, as removal of parotid tumours, opening of abscesses, or operations on the lower jaw. When the cause is central, the sixth nerve is usually also paralysed, and there is hemiplegia on the opposite side. In these cases the electrical reactions are the same