MUSCLES AND FASCIA That is, in the order of dissection of the sole of the foot. Fi7^st Layer Abductor hallucis. Flexor brevis digitorum. Abductor minimi digiti. Dissection. Eemove the fascia on the inner and outer sides of the foot, commencing in front over the tendons, and proceeding backwards. The central portion should be divided transverselv m the middle of the foot, and the two flaps dissected forwards and backwards. The Abductor hallucis lies along the Fig. 333. Muscles of the sole of the inner border of the foot. It arises from foot. First layer. inner tubercle on the under surface of the OS calcis ; from the internal annular ligament ; from the plantar fascia; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum. The fibres terminate in a tendon, w^hich is inserted, together with the innermost ten- don of the Flexor brevis hallucis, into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the plantar fascia. By its deep surface, wdth the Flexor brevis hallucis, the Flexor accessorius, and the tendons of the Flexor longus digitorum and Flexor longus hallucis, the Tibialis anticus and posticus, the plantar vessels and nerves, and the articulations of the tarsus. The Flexor brevis digitorum {perfor- atus) lies in the middle of the sole of the foot, immediately beneath * the plantar fascia, with wdiich it is firmly united. It arises by a narrow tendinous process, from the inner tubercle of the os calcis, from the central part of the plantar fascia, and from the intermuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. It passes forwards, and divides into four tendons. Opposite the bases of the first phalanges, each tendon divides into two slips, to allow of the passage of the corresponding tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum ; the two portions of the tendon then unite and form a grooved channel for the reception of the accompanying long flexor tendon. Finally, they divide a second time, to be inserted into the sides of the second phalanges about their middle. The mode of division of the tendons of the Flexor brevis digitorum, and their insertion into the phalanges, is analogous to the Flexor sublimis in the hand. Relations.—By its supjerficial surface, with the plantar fascia. By its deep surface, with the Flexor accessorius, the Lumbricales, the tendons of the Flexor longus digitorum, and the external plantar vessels and nerve, from which it is separated by a thin layer of fascia. The outer and i^iner borders are separated from the adjacent muscles by means of vertical prolongations of the plantar fascia.