STRUCTUEE OF THE HEART 959 The following parts present themselves for examination :— ^ . fAuriciilo-ventricular. ' , (Mitral. Openings Valves [semilunar. Chordae tendineae. CohimneB carnese. The auriculo-ventricular opening is placed below and to the left of the aortic orifice. It is a little smaller than the corresponding aperture of the opposite side; and, like it, is broader in the transverse than in the antero-posterior diameter. It is surrounded by a dense fibrous ring, covered by the lining membrane of the heart, and guarded by the mitral valve. The aortic opening is a circular aperture, in front and to the right side of the auriculo-ventricular, from which it is separated by one of the segments of the mitral valve. Its orifice is guarded by the semilunar valves. The mitral valve is attached to the circumference of the auriculo-ventricular orifice in the same way that the tricuspid valve is on the opposite side. It is formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane, strengthened by fibrous tissue, and contains a few muscular fibres. It is larger in size, thicker, and altogether stronger than the tricuspid, and consists of two segments of unequal size. The larger segment is placed in front, between the auriculo-ventricular and aortic orifices, and is said to prevent the filling of the aorta during the distension of the ventricle. Two smaller segments are usually found at the angles of junction of the larger. The mitral valve-flaps are furnished with chords tendineae, the mode of attachment of which is precisely similar to that of those on the right side ; but they are thicker, stronger, and less numerous. The semilunar valves surround the orifice of the aorta ; two are posterior (right and left) and one anterior: they are similar in structure, and in their mode of attachment, to those of the pulmonary artery. They are, however, larger, thicker, and stronger than those of the right side; the lunulas are more distinct, and the corpora Arantii larger and more prominent. Between each valve and the cylinder of the aorta is a deep depression, the sinus aortici (sinuses, of„„V.alsalva); they are larger than those of the root of the pulmonary artery. The columncB carnece admit of a subdivision into three sets, like those upon the right side; but they are smaller, more numerous, and present a dense interlace- ment, especially at the apex, and upon the posterior wall. Those attached by one extremity only, the musculi papillares, are two in number, being connected one to the anterior, the other to the posterior wall; they are of large size, and terminate by free rounded extremities, from which the chordae tendineae arise. The septum between the two ventricles is thick, especially below (fig. 565). At its upper part it suddenly tapers off and becomes destitute of muscular fibres, consisting only of fibrous tissue, covered by two layers of endocardium ; and on the right side also covered by one of the flaps of the tricuspid valve. It is continued upwards and forms the septum between the aortic vestibule and the right auricle. It is derived from the lower part of the aortic septum of the foetus, and an abnormal communication may exist at this part owing to defective development of this septum. The Endocardium is a thin membrane which lines the internal surface of the heart; it assists in forming the valves by its reduplications, and is continuous with the lining membrane of the great blood-vessels. It is a smooth, transparent membrane, giving to the inner surface of the heart its glistening appearance. It is more opaque on the left than on the right side of the heart, thicker in the auricles than in the ventricles, and thickest in the left auricle. It is thin on the musculi pectinati, and on the columnas carneae ; but thicker on the smooth part of the auricular and ventricular walls, and on the tips of the musculi papillares. Structure.—The heart consists of muscular fibres, and of fibrous rings which serve for their attachment. Th.Q fibrous rings surround the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices : they are stronger upon the left than on the right side of the heart. The auriculo-ventricular rings serve for the attachment of the muscular fibres of the auricles and ventricles.