MUSCLES AND FASCIA 432 Dissection.—To expose the Kectus muscle, open its sheath by a vertical incision extending from the margin of the thorax to the os pubis, and then reflect the two portions from the surface of the muscle, which is easily done, excepting at the linefe transversae, where so close an adhesion exists that the greatest care is requisite in separating them. Now raise the outer edge of the muscle, in order to examine the posterior layer of the sheath. By dividing the muscle in the centre, and turning its lower part downwards, the point where the posterior wall of the sheath terminates in a thin curved margin will be seen. The Rectus abdominis is a long flat muscle, which extends along the whole length of the front of the abdomen, being separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the linea alba. It is much broader, but thinner, above than below, and arises by two tendons, the external or larger being attached to the crest of the os pubis, the internal, smaller portion, interlacing with its fellow of the opposite side, and being connected with the ligaments covering the front of the symphysis pubis. The fibres ascend, and the muscle is inserted by three portions of unequal size into the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. Some fibres are occasion- ally connected with the costo-xiphoid ligaments, and side of the ensiform cartilage. The Eectus muscle is traversed by tendinous intersections, three in number, which have received the name of linecB transverscB. One of these is usually situated opposite the umbilicus, and two above that point ; of the latter, one corresponds to the extremity of the ensiform cartilage, and the other to the interval between the ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus. These intersections pass transversely or obliquely across the muscle in a zigzag course ; they rarely extend completely through its substance, sometimes pass only half-way across it, and are intimately adherent in front to the sheath in which the muscle is enclosed. The Eectus is enclosed in a sheath (fig. 295) formed by the aponeuroses of the Oblique and Transversalis muscles, which are arranged in the following manner. When the aponeurosis of the Internal oblique arrives at the outer margin of the Rectus, it divides into two lamellae, one of which passes in front of the Rectus, blending with the aponeurosis of the External oblique ; the other, behind it, blending with the aponeurosis of the Transversalis ; and these, joining again at its inner border, are inserted into the linea alba. This arrangement of the aponeuroses exists along the upper three-fourths of the muscle : at the commencement of the lower fourth, the posterior wall of the sheath terminates in a thin curved margin, the semilunar fold of Douglas, the concavity of which looks downwards towards the pubes; the aponeuroses of all three muscles passing in front of the Rectus without any separation. The extremities of the fold of Douglas descend as pillars to the OS pubis. The inner pillar is attached to the symphysis pubis ; the outer pillar, which is named by Braune the ligament of Hesselbach, divides below to enclose the internal abdominal ring; the internal fibres are attached to the horizontal ramus of the os pubis and the pectineal fascia; the external ones pass to the Psoas fascia and to the Transversalis where it arises from Poupart's ligament on the outer side of the ring. The Rectus muscle, in the situation where its sheath is deficient, is separated from the peritoneum by the transversalis fascia. The Pyramidalis is a small muscle, triangular in shape, placed at the lower part of the abdomen, in front of the Rectus, and contained in the same sheath with that muscle. It arises by tendinous fibres from the front of the os pubis and the anterior pubic ligament; the fleshy portion of the muscle passes upwards, diminishing in size as it ascends, and terminates by a pointed extremity, which is inserted into the linea alba, midway between the umbilicus and the os pubis. This muscle is sometimes found wanting on one or both sides ; the lower end of the Rectus then becomes proportionately increased in size. Occasionally it has been found double on one side, or the muscles of the two sides are of unequal size. Sometimes its length exceeds what is stated above. Relations.—Its anterior surface (or rather the fascia which covers its anterior surface) is in relation with the colon, the kidney, the Psoas muscle, and the Diaphragm. Its ]Josterior surface is in relation with the middle lamella of the