726 NERVOUS SYSTEM size, and increase progressively towards the deeper parts of the layer, and they are much more widely separated from each other. This layer is the principal and broadest one of the series, and is at least twice as deep as the preceding layer. (4) The fourth layer is termed the granular forviation by Meynert, and consists of numerous small, irregular, rarely triangular or elongated, cells, which resemble the nerve-corpuscles found in the internal granule layer of the retina, and which are closely aggregated together. (5) The fifth layer is termed the claustral formation, and consists of a very large proportion of spindle-shaped cells, which are the peculiar elements of this layer. They are especially numerous in the inner half, and are arranged horizontally, extending parallel to the surface. They have received their name from the fact that the claustrum is made up almost entirely of an accumulation of these cells. It will be seen, therefore, that the differences in these layers depend upon the varying form and size of the cells and the closeness of their arrangement, and that the typical form of cell, and the only one which is admitted by some observers, is the pyramidal cell or nerve-corpuscle. Character of the pyramidal cell or nerve-corpuscle.—These nerve-corpuscles ^re destitute of a cell wall; they present a nucleus, sometimes round or oval, sometimes angular, and give off many processes. One of these, which, in the cells arranged vertically to the surface, projects outwards and is named ih.Q process of the apex, is strong and branched, and according to Cleland is continuous with the nerve-fibre network in the first or superficial layer of the cortex. Another process projects inwards towards the white matter of the hemisphere and from the opposite extremity of the cell. It is termed the process of the centre of the base. It is more slender than the preceding and remains unbranched. It is an axis-cylinder process, and, becoming invested with a medullary sheath, constitutes a nerve-fibre, extending into the central white matter. In addition to these, lateral processes are given off, forming the processes of the basal angle, which can be traced for a longer or shorter distance, and break up into a network of extremely minute nerve-fibres. Special types of the grey matter of the cortex.—The special types of grey matter of the cortex are the following : (i) On the posterior portion of the occipital lobe the grey matter consists of eight layers. This is produced by the intercalation of intermediate granule layers, similar to those forming the fourth layer of the typical cortex. (2) In the grey matter of the cortex of the hippocampus major or cornu Ammonis, pyramidal cells are alone found, such as have been described in the third layer of the typical cortex. This constitutes the greater part of the structure in this situation, the fourth and fifth layers being absent, and the second layer containing no cells. (3) In the wall of the Sylvian fissure the grey matter is termed the claustrum; it separates the white matter of the convolutions of the island of Reil from the external capsule of the corpus striatum. This presents peculiarities of structure, consisting mainly of spindle-shaped cells, such as consti- tute the fifth layer. (4) In the olfactory bulb, which may be regarded as a portion of the cerebral hemispheres, forming 'a cap superimposed upon a conical process of the cerebrum,' is another variety of structure, differing from the type of the cortex of the hemispheres. The bulb consists of both grey and white matter, and sometimes retains a central cavity lined by epithelium. The lower part is grey matter, and consists of the following layers from below upwards, (i) The olfactory nerve-layer, consisting of a layer of non-medullated nerve-fibres derived from the nerves which supply the olfactory region. (2) The stratum glomerulosum, consisting of nodulated masses, containing small nuclear cells, and a convoluted olfactory nerve-fibre amongst the cells. (3) The stratum gelatinosum, consisting of pyramidal or spindle-shaped nerve-cells and a fine network of nerve-fibre. (4) The granular layer, consisting of small irregular nerve-cells resembling the fourth layer of the cerebrum or the granular layer of the retina. 2. The grey matter of the basal ganglia.—The great ganglia of the base of the brain are, the corpus striatum, the optic thalamus, the corpora quadrigemina, the corpora geniculata, and the locus niger. Only a part, however, of the grey