SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM 1072 Cowper's glands are situated immediately below the membranous portion of the urethra, close behind the bulb and below the artery of the bulb. The pudic vessels and dorsal nerve of the penis are placed along the inner margin of the pudic arch (pages 606 and 803). The artery of the bulb passes transversely inwards, from the internal pudic along the base of the triangular ligament, between the two layers of fascia, accompanied by a branch of the pudic nerve (page 805). If the posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia is removed and the crus penis of one side detached from the bone, the under or perineal surface of the Levator ani is brought fully into view. This muscle, with the triangular ligament in front and the Coccygeus and Pyriformis behind, closes the outlet of the pelvis. The Levator ani and Coccygeus muscles have already been described (page 436). Position of the Viscera at the Outlet of the Pelvis.—Divide the central tendinous point of the perinseum, separate the rectum from its connections by dividing the fibres Fig. 634.—A view of the position of the viscera at the outlet of the pelvis. of the Levator ani, which descend upon the sides of the prostate giand, and draw the gut backwards towards the coccyx, when the under surface of the prostate gland, the neck and base of the bladder, the vesiculse seminales, and the vasa deferentia will be exposed. The Prostate Gland is a pale, firm, glandular body which is placed immediately in front of the neck of the bladder, around the commencement of the urethra. It is placed in the pelvic cavity, behind and below the symphysis pubis, posterior to the deep ]perineal fascia, and rests upon the rectum, through which it may be distinctly felt, especially when enlarged. In shape and size it resembles a chestnut. Its base is directed backwards towards the neck of the bladder. Its apex is directed forwards to the deep perineal fascia, which it touches. Its under surface is smooth, marked by a slight longitudinal furrow, and rests on the rectum, to which it is connected by areolar tissue. Its upper surface is flattened, marked by a slight longitudinal furrow, and placed about three-quarters of an inch below the pubic symphysis. It measures about an inch and a half in its transverse diameter at the base, an inch in its antero-posterior diameter, and three-quarters of an inch in depth. Hence the greatest extent of incision that can