ORGANS OF SENSE processes. On the outer side of the rod, in the angle formed between it and the basilar membrane, is a protoplasmic cell; whilst on the inner side is a row of epithelial cells, surmounted by a brush of fine, stiff, hairlike processes, these cells being continuous with the cubical cells lining the sulcus spiralis. The outer rods also rest by a broad foot on the basilar membrane ; they incline forwards and inAvards, and their upper extremity resembles the head and bill of a swan ; the head fitting into the concavity—the analogue of the sigmoid cavity—of one or more of the internal rods, and the bill resting against the phalanges of the lamina reticularis, presently to be described. In the head of these outer rods is an oval portion, where the fibres of which the rod appears to be composed are deficient, and which stains more deeply with carmine than the rest of the rod. This is supposed to represent the nucleus of the cell from which the rod was originally developed. At the base of the rod, on its internal side—^that is to say, in the angle formed by the rod with the basilar membrane—is a similar protoplasmic cell to that found on the outer side of the base of the inner rod ; whilst external to the outer rod are three or four successive rows of epithelial cells, more elongated than those found on the internal side of the inner rod, but, like them, furnished with minute hairs or cilia. These are termed the outer liair-cells, in contradistinction to the inner set, which are termed the inner hair-cells. They are attached by their bases to the basilar membrane, whilst from the opposite extremity a brush of hairs or cilia projects through the reticular membrane. They are continuous externally with the cubical cells on the lateral part of the basilar membrane. The reticular lamina or memhrcme of KolUker is a delicate framework perforated by rounded holes. It extends from the inner rods of Corti to the external row of the outer hair-cells, and is formed by several rows of ' minute fiddle-shaped cuticular structures,' called phalanges, between which are holes for the projection of the ciliffi of the outer hair-cells. Covering over these structures, but not touching them, is the membrana tectoria, or membrane of Corti, which is attached to the vestibular surface of the lamina spiralis close to the attachment of the membrane of Reissner; it courses over the denticulate lamina, and, passing outwards parallel to the basilar membrane, is blended with the ligamentum spirale on the outer wall of the spiral canal.* The i)iner surface of the osseous labyrinth is lined by an exceedingly thin fibro- serous membrane, analogous to a periosteum, from its close adhesion to the inner surfaces of these cavities, and performing the office of a serous membrane by its free surface. It lines the vestibule, and from this cavity is continued into the semi- circular canals and the scala vestibuli of the cochlea, and through the helicotrema into the scala tympani. A delicate tubular process is prolonged along the aqueduct of the vestibule to the inner surface of the dura mater. This membrane is continued across the fenestra ovalis and rotunda, and consequently has no communication with the lining membrane of the tympanum. Its attached surface is rough and fibrous, and closely adherent to the bone ; its free surface is smooth and pale, covered with a layer of epithelium, and secretes a thin, limpid fluid, the aqua lahyi inthi, liquor Cotunnii, ox perilym2)h (Blainville). The scala media is closed above and below. The upper blind extremity is attached to the cupola at the upper part of the helicotrema ; the lower end fits into the angle at the commencement of the osseous lamina on the floor of the vestibule. Near this blind extremity, the scala media receives the canalis reuniens (fig. 508), a very delicate canal, by which the ductus cochlearis is brought into continuity with the saccule. The Membranous Labyrinth The membranous labyrinth (fig. 508) is a closed membranous sac, containing fluid, on the walls of which the ramifications of the auditory nerve are distributed. It has the same general form as the vestibule and semicircular canals in which it * In fig. 507 only the inner half of the membrane is represented.