6o4 AETERIES Branches of the Internal Iliac Fro7)i the Anterior Trunk. Superior Vesical. Middle Vesical. Inferior Vesical. From the Posterior Trunk. Ilio-lnmbar. Lateral Sacral. Gluteal. Middle Hsemorrhoidal. Obturator. Internal Pudic. Sciatic. ( Uterine. The superior vesical is that part of the foetal hypogastric artery which remains pervious after birth. It extends to the side of the bladder, distributing numerous branches to the apex and body of the organ. From one of these a slender vessel is derived, which accompanies the vas deferens in its course to the testis, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. This is the artery of the vas deferens. Other branches supply the ureter. The middle vesical, usually a branch of the superior, is distributed to the base of the bladder and under surface of the vesiculae seminales. The inferior vesical arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac, frequently in common with the middle hsemorrhoidal, and is distributed to the base of the bladder, the prostate gland, and vesicul^ seminales. The branches distributed to the prostate communicate with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side. The middle hsemorrhoidal artery usually arises together with the preceding vessel. It supplies the rectum, anastomosing with the other hsemorrhoidal arteries. The uterine artery passes inwards from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac to the neck of the uterus. Ascending, in a tortuous course on the side of this viscus, between the layers of the broad ligament, it distributes branches to its substance, anastomosing, near its termination, with a branch from the ovarian artery. Branches from this vessel are also distributed to the bladder and ureter. The vaginal artery is analogous to the inferior vesical in the male ; it descends upon the vagina, supplying its mucous membrane, and sending branches to the neck of the bladder and contiguous part of the rectum. The Obturator Artery usually arises from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, frequently from the posterior. It passes forwards, below the brim of the pelvis, to the upper part of the obturator foramen, and escaping from the pelvic cavity through a short canal, formed by a groove on the under surface of the horizontal ramus of the os pubis, and the arched border of the obturator mem- brane, it divides into an internal and an external branch. In the pelvic cavity this vessel lies upon the pelvic fascia, beneath the peritoneum, and a little below the obturator nerve. Branches.—Within the ]jelvis, the obturator artery gives off an iliac branch to the iliac fossa, which supplies the bone and the Iliacus muscle, and anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery ; a vesical branch, which runs backwards to supply the bladder; and a imbic branch, which is given off from the vessel jiist before it leaves the pelvic cavity. This branch ascends upon the back of the os pubis, communicating with offsets from the deep epigastric artery, and with the corre- sponding vessel of the opposite side. This branch is placed on the inner side of the femoral ring. External to the yelvis, the obturator artery divides into an internal and an external branch, which are deeply situated beneath the Obturator externus muscle. The internal branch curves downwards along the inner margin of the obturator foramen, distributing branches to the Obturator externus muscle, Pectineus, Adductors, and Gracilis, and anastomoses with the external branch, and with the internal circumflex artery. In female \ Vaginal.