502 MUSCLES AND FASCI.E Fig. 331- -Muscles of the back of the Superficial laj^er. which it belongs; that covering the inner head being longer and thicker than the outer. From the anterior surface of these tendinous expansions, muscular fibres are given off. The fibres in the median line, which correspond to the accessory portions of the muscle derived from the bifurcations of the linea aspera, unite at an angle upon a median tenduious raphe below- : the remaining fibres con- verge to the posterior surface of an apo- neurosis which covers the anterior surface of the muscle, and this, gradually con- tracting, miites with the tendon of the Soleus, and forms with it the tendo Achilhs. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the fascia of the leg, which separates it from the external saphenous vem and nerve. By its deep surface, with the posterior hgament of the knee-joint, the Pophteus, Soleus, Plantaris, pophteal ves- sels, and internal pophteal nerve. The tendon of the inner head corresponds with the back part of the inner condyle, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa, which, in some cases, commmiicates mth the cavity of the knee-jomt. The tendon of the outer head contains a sesamoid fibro-cartilage (rarely osseous), where it plays over the corresponding outer con- dyle ; and one is occasionally found in the tendon of the inner head. The Gastrocnemius should be divided across, just below its origin, and turned down- wards, in order to expose the next muscles. The Soleus is a broad fiat muscle situated immediately beneath the Gastro- cnemius. It has received its name from its resemblance in shape to a sole-fish. It arises by tendinous fibres from the back part of the head of the fibula, and from the upper third of the posterior surface of its shaft; from the oblique line of the tibia, and from the middle third of its internal border; some fibres also arise from a tendinous arch placed betw^een the tibial and fibular origins of the muscle, be- neath which the posterior tibial vessels and nerve pass. The fibres pass back- wards to an aponeurosis w^hich covers the posterior surface of the muscle, and this gradually becoming thicker and narrower, joins with the tendon of the Gastrocne- mius, and forms with it the tendo Achillis. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Gastrocnemius and Plantaris. By its deep surface, with the Flexor longus digitorum. Flexor longus hallucis, Tibiahs posticus, and posterior tibial vessels and nerve, from w^hich it is separated by the transverse intermuscular septum or deep transverse fascia of the leg. The Tendo Achillis, the common tendon of the Gastrocnemius and Soleus, is Tendons of I'froneus longus and brevis