628 ARTERIES and the tibial attachment of the Solens divided, a director being previously passed beneath it. The artery may now be felt pulsating beneath the deep fascia, about an inch from the margin of the tibia. The fascia having been divided, and the limb placed in such a position as to relax the muscles of the calf as much as possible, the veins should be separated from the artery, and the aneurism needle passed round the vessel from without inwards, so as to avoid wounding the posterior tibial nerve. The branches of the posterior tibial artery are, the Peroneal. Nutrient. Muscular. Communicating. Internal Calcanean. The Peroneal Artery lies, deeply seated, along the back part of the fibular side of the leg. It arises from the posterior tibial, about an inch below the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, passes obliquely outwards to the fibula, and then descends along the inner border of that bone, to the lower third of the leg, where it gives off the anterior peroneal. It then passes across the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the os calcis, where it gives off its terminal branches, the external calcanean. Relations.^—This vessel rests at first upon the Tibialis posticus, and then, for the greater part of its course, in a fibrous canal between the origins of the Flexor longus hallucis and Tibialis posticus, covered or surrounded by the fibres of the Flexor longus hallucis. It is covered, in the upper part of its course, by the Soleus and deep transverse fascia ; below, by the Flexor longus hallucis. Plan of the Relations of the Peroneal Aetery In front. Tibialis posticus. Flexor longus hallucis. Outer side. Fibula. Flexor longus hallucis. Behind. Soleus. Deep transverse fascia. Flexor longus hallucis. Peculiarities in Origin.—The peroneal artery may arise three inches below the Popliteus, or from the posterior tibial high up, or even from the popliteal. Its size is more frequently increased than diminished; and then it either reinforces the posterior tibial by its junction with it, or altogether takes the place of the posterior tibial in the lower part of the leg and foot, the latter vessel only existing as a short mus- cular branch. In those rare cases where the peroneal artery is smaller than usual, a branch from the posterior tibial supplies its place ; and a branch from the anterior tibial compensates for the diminished anterior peroneal artery. In one case the peroneal artery has been found entirely wanting. The anterior peroneal is sometimes enlarged, and takes the place of the dorsal artery of the foot. The branches of the peroneal are, the Muscular. Communicating, Nutrient. Posterior Peroneal. Anterior Peroneal. External Calcanean. Muscular branches.—The peroneal artery, in its course, gives off branches to the Soleus, Tibialis posticus. Flexor longus hallucis, and Peronei muscles. The nutrient artery supplies the fibula. The Anterior peroneal pierces the interosseous membrane, about two inches above the outer malleolus, to reach the fore part of the leg, and, passing down