POSTERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR REGION 501 and third phalanges of the four lesser toes. The mode in which the tendons are inserted is the following: the three inner tendons opposite the metatarso- phalangeal articulation are joined, on their outer side, by a tendon of the Extensor brevis digitorum. They all receive a fibrous expansion from the Interossei and Lumbricales, and then spread out into a broad aponeurosis, which covers the dorsal surface of the first phalanx : this aponeurosis, at the articulation of the first with the second phalanx, divides into three slips, a middle one, which is inserted into the base of the second phalanx; and two lateral slips, which, after uniting on the dorsal surface of the second phalanx, are continued onwards, to be inserted into the base of the third. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the fascia and the annular ligament. By its ]jostcrior surface, with the fibula, interosseous membrane, ankle-joint, and Extensor brevis digitorum. By its inner side, with the Tibialis anticus. Extensor proprius hallucis, and anterior tibial vessels and nerve. By its outer side, with the Peroneus longus and brevis. The Peroneus tertius is a part of the Extensor longus digitorum, and might be described as its fifth tendon. The fibres belonging to this tendon arise from the lower fourth of the anterior surface of the fibula ; from the lower part of the interosseous membrane ; and from an intermuscular septum between it and the Peroneus brevis. The tendon, after passing through the same canal in the annular ligament as the Extensor longus digitorum, is inserted into the dorsal surface of the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, on its inner side. This muscle is sometimes wanting. Nerves.—These muscles are supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. Actions.—The Tibialis anticus and Peroneus tertius are the direct flexors of the tarsus upon the leg; the former muscle, from the obliquity in the direction of its tendon, raises the inner border of the foot; and the latter, acting with the Peroneus brevis and longus, draws the outer border of the foot upwards and the sole outwards. The Extensor longus digitorum and Extensor proprius hallucis extend the phalanges of the toes, and, continuing their action, flex the tarsus upon the leg. Taking their fixed point from below, in the erect posture, all these muscles serve to fix the bones of the leg in the perpendicular position, and give increased strength to the ankle-joint. POSTEEIOK TiBIO-FIBULAR ReGION Dissection (fig. 328).—Make a vertical incision along the middle line of the back of the leg, from the lower part of the popliteal space to the heel, connecting it below by a transverse incision extending between the two malleoli; the flaps of integument being removed, the fascia and muscles should be examined. The muscles in this region of the leg are subdivided into two layers—super- ficial and deep. The superficial layer constitutes a powerful muscular mass, forming the calf of the leg. Their large size is one of the most characteristic features of the muscular apparatus in man, and bears a direct connection with his ordinary attitude and mode of progression. Superficial Layer Gastrocnemius. Soleus. Plantaris. The Gastrocnemius is the most superficial muscle, and forms the greater part of the calf. It arises by two heads, which are connected to the condyles of the femur by two strong flat tendons. The inner head, the larger, and a little the more posterior, arises from a depression at the upper and back part of the inner condyle. The outer head arises from the upper and back part of the external condyle, immediately above the origin of the Popliteus. Both heads, also, arise by a few tendinous and fleshy fibres from the ridges which are continued upwards from the condyles to the linea aspera. Each tendon spreads out into an aponeurosis, which covers the posterior surface of that portion of the muscle to