815 MIDDLE CERVICAL GANGLION pharynx, where they join with branches from the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and external laryngeal nerves to form the pharyngeal plexus. The laryngeal brandies miite with the superior laryngeal nerve and its branches. The superior cardiac nerve {nervus superficialis cordis) arises by two or more branches from the superior cervical ganglion, and occasionally receives a filament from the cord of communication between the first and second cervical ganglia. It runs down the neck behind the common carotid artery, lying upon the Longus colli muscle ; and crosses in front of the inferior thyroid artery, and recurrent laryngeal nerve. The right superior cardiac nerve, at the root of the neck, passes either in front of or behind the subclavian artery, and along the arteria innominata, to the back part of the arch of the aorta, where it joins the deep cardiac plexus. This nerve, in its course, is connected with other branches of the sympathetic ; about the middle of the neck it receives filaments from the external laryngeal nerve; lower down, one or two twigs from the pneumogastric ; and as it enters the thorax it is joined by a filament from the recurrent laryngeal. Filaments from this nerve communicate with the thyroid branches from the middle cervical ganglion. The left superior cardiac nerve, in the chest, runs by the side of the left common carotid artery, and in front of the arch of the aorta, to the superficial cardiac plexus; but occasionally it passes behind the aorta, and terminates in the deep cardiac plexus. The anterior branches ramify upon the external carotid artery and its branches, forming round each a delicate plexus, on the nerves composing which small ganglia are occasionally found. These ganglia have been named, according to their posi- tion, intercarotid * (placed at the angle of bifurcation of the common carotid), lingual, temporal, and pharyngeal. The plexuses accompanying some of these arteries have important communications with other nerves. That surrounding the external carotid is connected with the branch of the facial nerve to the stylo-hyoid muscle; that surrounding the facial communicates with the submaxillary ganglion by one or two filaments; and that accompanying the middle meningeal artery sends offsets which pass to the otic ganglion and to the intumescentia gangliof ormis of the facial nerve (external petrosal). The Middle Cervical Ganglion {thyroid ganglion) is the smallest of the three cervical ganglia, and is occasionally altogether wanting. It is placed opposite the sixth cervical vertebra, usually upon, or close to, the inferior thyroid artery ; hence the name ' thyroid ganglion,' assigned to it by Haller. It is probably formed by the coalescence of two ganglia corresponding to the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. Its superior branches ascend to communicate with the superior cervical ganglion. Its inferior branches descend to communicate with the inferior cervical ganglion. Its external branches pass outwards to join the fifth and sixth spinal nerves. These branches are not constantly found. Its internal branches are the thyroid and the middle cardiac nerve. The thyroid branches are small filaments, which accompany the inferior thyroid artery to the thyroid gland ; they communicate, on the artery, with the superior cardiac nerve, and, in the gland, with branches from the recurrent and external laryngeal nerves. The middle cardiac nerve {nervus cardiacus magnus), the largest of the three cardiac nerves, arises from the middle cervical ganglion, or from the cord between the middle and inferior ganglia. On the right side it descends behind the common carotid artery ; and at the root of the neck passes either in front of or behind the subclavian artery ; it then descends on the trachea, receives a few filaments from the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and joins the deep cardiac plexus. In the neck, it communicates with the superior cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. On the left side, the middle cardiac nerve enters the chest between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, and joins the left side of the deep cardiac plexus. * This ganglion is of the same strLicture as the coccygeal gland (Luschka).