VEINS 638 reservoirs for the blood. These are the veins of the diploe; they can only be displayed by removing the outer table of the skull. In adult life, as long as the cranial bones are distinct and separable, these veins are confined to the particular bones; but in old age, Avhen the sutures are united, they communicate with each other, and increase in size. These vessels communicate, in the interior of the cranium, with the meningeal veins, and Avith the sinuses of the dura mater; and, on the exterior of the skull, with the veins of the pericranium. They are divided into the f ron tal, which opens, into the supra- orbital vein, by an aperture in the supra-orbital notch ; the anterior temporal, which is confined chiefly to the frontal bone, and opens into one of the deep temporal veins, after escaping by an aperture in the great wing of the sphenoid; the posterior temporal, which is confined to the parietal bone, and terminates in the lateral sinus by an aperture at the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone ; and the occipital, the largest of the four, which is confined to the occipital Fig. 382.—Veins of the diploe as displayed by the removal of the outer table of the skull. bone, and opens either into the occipital vein, or internally into the lateral sinus or torcular Herophili. Cerebral Veins The Cerebral Veins are remarkable for the extreme thinness of their coats in consequence of the muscular tissue in them being wanting, and for the absence of valves. They may be divided into two sets : the superficial which are placed on the surface, and the deep veins which occupy the interior of the organ. The Superficial Cerebral Veins ramify upon the surface of the brain, being lodged in the sulci, between the convolutions, a few running across the convolu- tions. They receive branches from the substance of the brain, and terminate in the sinuses. They are named, from the position they occupy, superior, median, and inferior cerebral veins. The Superior Cerebral Veins, eight to twelve in number on each side, return the blood from the convolutions on the superior surface of the hemisphere ; they pass forwards and inwards towards the great longitudinal fissure, where they receive the median cerebral veins ; near their termination, they become invested with a tubular sheath of the arachnoid membrane, and open into the superior longitudinal sinus, in the opposite direction to the course of the blood.