579 RADIAL Eadial Artery The Radial Artery appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of the brachial, but, in size, it is smaller than the ulnar. It commences at the bifurcation of the brachial, just below the bend of the elbow, and passes along the radial side of the forearm to the wrist; it then winds backwards, round the outer side of the carpus, beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and, finally, passes forwards between the two heads of the First dorsal interosseous muscle, into the palm of the hand, where it crosses the metacarpal bones to the ulnar border of the hand, to form the deep palmar arch. At its termination, it inosculates with the deep branch of the ulnar artery. The relations of this vessel may thus be conveniently divided into three parts, viz. in the forearm, at the back of the wrist, and in the hand. Relations.—In the forearm, this vessel extends from opposite the neck of the radius, to the fore part of the styloid process, being placed to the inner side of the shaft of the bone above, and in front of it below. It is superficial throughout its entire extent, being covered by the integument, the superficial and deep fasciae, and slightly overlapped above by the Supinator longus. In its course downwards, it lies upon the tendon of the Biceps, the Supinator brevis, the radial origin of the Flexor sublimis digitorum, the Pronator radii teres, the Flexor longus pollicis, the Pronator quadratus, and the lower extremity of the radius. In the upper third of its course, it lies between the Supinator longus and the Pronator radii teres ; in its lower two-thirds, between the tendons of the Supinator longus and the Flexor carpi radialis. The radial nerve lies along the outer side of the artery in the middle third of its course ; and some filaments of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, after piercing the deep fascia, run along the lower part of the artery as it winds round the wrist. The vessel is accompanied by ven^e comites throughout its whole course. Plan of the Relations of the Radial Artery in the Forearm In front. Skin, superficial and deep fasciae. Supinator longus. At the wrist, as it winds round the outer side of the carpus, from the styloid process to the first interosseous space, it lies upon the external lateral ligament, and then upon the scaphoid bone and trapezium, being covered by the extensor tendons of the thumb, subcutaneous veins, some filaments of the radial nerve, and the integument. It is accompanied by two veins, and a filament of the musculo- cutaneous nerve. In the hand, it passes from the upper end of the first interosseous space, between the heads of the Abductor indicis or First dorsal interosseous muscle, transversely across the palm, to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, where it inosculates with the communicating branch from the ulnar artery, forming the deep palmar arch. It lies upon the carpal extremities of the metacarpal Inner side. Pronator radii teres. Flexor carpi radiaUs. Outer side. Supinator longus. Eadial nerve (middle third). Behind. Tendon of Biceps. Supinator brevis. Flexor subHmis digitorum. Pronator radii teres. Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadratus. Radius.