77 DEVELOPMENT OF THE EMBRYO curved on itself (cephalic flexure), and a smaller but distinct flexure takes place at its hinder end (caudal flexure). At the same time the sides of the embryo grow and curve towards each other ; so that the embryo is aptly compared to a canoe turned over (fig. 83). In consequence of this incurving of the embryo, both in an antero- posterior and a lateral di- Fig. S3.—Diagrammatic section through the ovum of a mammal in the long axis of the embrvo. The cranio-vertebral axis. /. The cephalic and caudal portions of the primitive alimentary canal, a. The amnion, a'. The point of reflection into the false amnion, v. Yolk-sac, communicating with the middle part of the intestine by v i. the vitello-intestiual duct. The allautois. _ The ovum is surrounded externally by the villous chorion. rection, the original yolk, with the three layers de- rived from the cleavage of the blastodermic mem- brane which cover it, is converted into a sort of hour-glass shape with two unequal globes. The smaller globe is formed by the part of the blastodermic membrane (area germina- tiva) which has already undergone certain changes in the formation of the embryo, and constitutes the part which has been com- pared to a canoe. The larger globe is called the yolk-sac or itmhilical ve- sicle, and is formed by the rest of the blastodermic membrane, i.e. that part which is not concerned in the formation of the area germinativa. The two freely communicate through the constriction which is the site of the future umbihcus, and through this constriction the internal layer of the blastodermic membrane (the hj'poblast) and the innermost of the two layers into which, as has been already stated, the mesoblast divides, viz. the splanchnopleure, pass out; the incurving having only involved the somato-pleural layer of the meso- blast and the epiblast (fi*g. 84). The umbiKcal vesicle is, therefore, at first a mere part of the general cavity of the yolk, partly enclosed by the embryo ; but as the latter grows round on all sides towards the umbiUcal aperture, the yolk becomes dis- tinguished into two portions. One lies inside the embryo and eventually forms a part of the intestinal cavity (out of which also, as will hereafter be seen, the bladder is developed). The other lies external to the embryo and remains therefore for a time a part of what is, in a more restricted sense, the ovum. The two parts are almost separated from each other by the meeting of the abdominal walls of the embryo at the umbilicus, through which they still communicate by a passage, the omijhalo-mesenteric duct, the destination of which will be pointed out presently. The extra-embryonic portion is of small importance and very temporary duration in the human subject. It is for the purpose of supplying nutrition to the embryo during the very earliest period, before it can obtain it from the uterine sinuses of the mother. In the oviparous animals, however, where no supply of nutrition can be obtained from the mother, since the egg is entirely separated from her, the yolk- sac is large and of great importance, as it supplies nutrition to the chick during the whole of foetation. Vessels developed in the middle blastodermic layer soon cover the umbilical vesicle, forming the vascular area, the chief vessels of which are the ovipJialo-mesenteric, two in number (fig. 85). The vessels of this area appear to absorb the fluid of the umbihcal vesicle, which as the fluid is absorbed dries up and has no further function. The activity of the umbilical vesicle ceases about