ANKLE-JOINT 353 behind its superior articular facet. Externally it is thicker than internally, where a somewhat thickened band of transverse fibres is attached to the hollow on the inner surface of the external malleolus. The Internal Lateral or Deltoid Ligament is a strong, flat, triangular band, attached, above, to the apex and anterior and posterior borders of the inner mal- leolus. The most anterior fibres pass forwards to be inserted into the navicular bone and the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament ; the middle descend almost perpendicularly to be inserted into the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis ; and the posterior fibres pass backwards and outwards to be attached to the inner side of the astragalus. This hgament is covered by the tendons of the Tibiahs posticus and Flexor longus digitorum muscles. The External Lateral Ligament (fig. 264) consists of three distinctly special- ised fasciculi of the capsule, taking different directions, and separated by distinct Fig. 263.—Ankle-joint: tarsal and tarso-metatarsal articulations. Internal view. Eight side. intervals; for which reason it is described by some anatomists as three distinct ligaments.* The anterior fasciculus (anterior astragalo-fibular), the shortest of the three, passes from the anterior margin of the summit of the external malleolus, downwards and forwards, to the astragalus, in front of its external articular facet. The posterior fascicuhcs (posterior astragalo-fibular), the most deeply seated, passes from the depression at the inner and back part of the external malleolus to a prominent tiibercle on the posterior surface of the astragalus. Its fibres are almost horizontal in direction. The middle fasciculus (calcaneo-fibular), the longest of the three, is a narrow, rounded cord, passing from the apex of the external malleolus downwards and slightly backwards to a tubercle on the outer surface of the os calcis. It is covered by the tendons of the Peroneus longus and brevis. The Synovial Membrane invests the inner surface of the ligaments, and sends a duplicature upwards between the lower extremities of the tibia and fibula for a short distance. Relations.—The tendons, vessels, and nerves in connection with the joint are, * Humphry On the Skeleton, p. 559. A A