64,3 SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER external to, the jugular foramen. The exact relation of the parts to one another in the foramen is as follows : the inferior petrosal sinus is in front, with the meningeal branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery, and is directed obliquely downwards and backwards ; the lateral sinus is situated at the back part of the foramen with a meningeal branch of the occipital artery, and between the two are the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves. These three sets of structures are divided from each other by two processes of fibrous tissue. The junction of the sinuses takes place superficial to the nerves, so that these latter lie a little internal to the venous channels in the foramen (see fig. 386.) These sinuses are semicylindrical in form. The Transverse Sinus, or basilar sinus, consists of several interlacing veins between the layers of the dura mater over the basilar process of the occipital bone, which serve to connect the two inferior petrosal sinuses. With them the anterior spinal veins communicate. Fig. 386.—Relation of structures in jugular foramen. Emissary Veins.—The emissary veins are vessels which pass through apertures in the cranial wall and establish communications between the sinuses inside the skull and the veins external to it. Some of these are always present, others only occasionally so. They vary much in size in different individuals. The principal emissary veins are the following :—i. A vein, almost always present, which passes through the mastoid foramen and connects the lateral sinus with the posterior auricular or with an occipital vein. 2. A vein, which passes through the parietal foramen and connects the superior longitudinal sinus with the veins of the scalp. 3. A plexus of minute veins, which pass through the anterior condyloid foramen and connect the occipital sinus with the vertebral vein and deep veins of the neck. 4. An inconstant vein, which passes through the posterior condyloid fora- men and connects the lateral sinus with the deep veins of the neck. 5. One or two veins of considerable size, which pass through the foramen ovale and connect the cavernous sinus with the pterygoid and pharyngeal plexuses. 6. Two or three small veins, which pass through the foramen lacerum medium and connect the