487 ANTEEIOR FEMORAL REGION the lower margin of this aperture it is continuous with the ihac portion ; traced upwards, it covers the surface of the Pectineus, Adductor longus, and GraciUs muscles, and, passing behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, to which it is closely united, is continuous with the sheath of the Psoas and Iliacus muscles, and is attached above to the ilio-pectineal line, where it becomes continuous with the iliac fascia. From this description it may be observed that the iliac portion of the fascia lata passes in front of the femoral vessels, and the pubic portion behind them, so that an apparent aperture exists between the two, through which the internal saphenous joins the femoral vein.* The fascia should now be removed from the surface of the muscles. This may be " effected by pinching it up between the forceps, dividing it, and separating it from each muscle in the coiu-se of its fibres. The Tensor vaginae femoris arises from the anterior part of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, and from the outer surface of the anterior superior spinous process, between the Gluteus medius and Sartorius. It is inserted into the fascia lata about one-fourth down the outer side of the thigh. From the point of insertion the fascia is continued downwards to the head of the tibia as a thickened band, the ilio-tibial band. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the fascia lata and the integument. By its deep surface, with the Gluteus medius. Rectus femoris. Vastus externus, and the ascending branches of the external circumflex artery. By its anterior border, with the Sartorius, from which it is separated below by a triangular space, in which is seen the Rectus femoris. By its posterior border, with the Gluteus medius. The Sartorius, the longest muscle in the body, is flat, narrow, and ribbon-like : it arises by tendinous fibres from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the upper half of the notch below it, passes obliquely across the upper and anterior part of the thigh, from the outer to the inner side of the limb, then descends vertically, as far as the inner side of the knee, passing behind the inner condyle of the femur, and terminates in a tendon, which, curving obliquely forwards, expands into a broad aponeurosis, inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, nearly as far forwards as the crest. This expansion is inserted into the bone by an inverted U-shaped aponeurosis ; part of it is inserted behind the attachment of the Gracilis and Semitendinosus, and another part, arching over the upper border of the tendon of the Gracilis, is inserted into the tibia in front of these muscles. An offset is derived from the upper margin of this aponeurosis, which blends with the fibrous capsule of the knee-joint, and another, given off from its lower border, blends with the fascia on the inner side of the leg. The relations of this muscle to the femoral artery should be carefully examined, as it constitutes the chief guide in tying the artery. In the upper third of the thigh it forms the outer side of a triangular space, Scarpa's triangle, the inner side of which is formed by the Adductor longus, and the base, turned upwards, by Poupart's ligament; the femoral artery passes perpendicularly through the middle of this space from its base to its apex. In the middle third of the thigh, the femoral artery lies first along the inner border, and then behind the Sartorius. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the fascia lata and integument. By its deej) surface, with the Rectus, Iliacus, Psoas, Vastus internus, anterior crural nerve, sheath of the femoral vessels, Adductor longus. Adductor magnus. Gracilis, Semitendinosus, long saphenous nerve, and internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The Quadriceps extensor includes the four remaining muscles on the front of the thigh. It is the great Extensor muscle of the leg, forming a large fleshy mass, which covers the front and sides of the femur, being united below into a * These parts will be again more particularly described with the anatomy of Hernia.