ORGANS OF DIGESTION 922 to this, in the right iliac fossa, in relation with the Iliacus muscle ; and at other times it lies internal to both Psoas and Iliacus, either resting on the pelvic brim, or altogether contained within the pelvis. It is entirely enveloped on all sides by peritoneum, which, after enclosing it, is reflected on to the posterior wall of the abdomen, being continuous with the ascending meso-colon, when this fold exists. The caecum, therefore, lies quite free in the abdominal cavity, and enjoys a considerable amount of movement. On its inner side it is joined by the ileum, while attached to its lower and back part is the appendix vermiformis. The appendix vermiformis is a long, narrow, worm-shaped tube, the rudiment of the lengthened ceecum found in nearly all the mammalia. The appendix varies from three to six inches in length, its average diameter being about equal to that of a goose-quill. It is usually directed upwards and inwards behind the caecum, coiled upon itself, and terminates in a blunt point ; being retained in its position by a fold of peritoneum, which sometimes forms a mesentery for it. Its canal is small, and communicates with the caecum by an orifice, which is placed below and behind that of the ileum. It is sometimes guarded with an incomplete valve formed of a fold of mucous membrane. Its Fig. 542.—The caecmn and colon laid coats are thick, and its mucous lining fur- open to show the ileo-caecal valve. nished with a large number of solitary glands. In the neighbourhood of the caecum, and especially in the vicinity of the ileo-caecal valve, are certain pouches of peritoneum or fossffi, which are of surgical importance. Three of these fossae have been described. The ileo-colic fossa (superior ileo-caecal) is situated at the junction of the ileum and colon, in the angle between the ascending colon which forms the outer boundary of the pouch, and the ileum which forms the lower boundary. Often a fold of peritoneum, arch- ing over a branch of the ileo-colic artery, i, roofs in this angle and thus forms a pouch, I the floor of which is formed by the mesen- ^7 tery. The ileo-ccecal fossa (inferior ileo- cecal) is situated behind the angle of junc- tion of the ileum and caecum. It is formed by a fold of peritoneum (ileo-ca?cal fold), which extends from the border of the ileum, and, passing over the ileo-caecal junction, joins the mesentery of the appendix. Be- tween this fold and the appendix is the fossa, which is bounded to the right by the ascending meso-colon, and to the left by the mesentery. It may extend a con- siderable distance upwards, behind and parallel with the colon. The suhccBcal fossa (retro-caecal) is situated immediately beneath the caecum, which has to be raised to bring it into view. It lies close to the ileo-caecal fossa, from which it is separated by the meso-caecum and ascending meso-colon. It is not so constant as either the ileo-caecal or ileo-colic fossae. Hernia of the vermiform appendix into one of these pouches frequently takes place, when it is often concealed and might escape the search of the surgeon were he not familiar with their existence. Moreover, a herniated appendix into one of these pouches is very liable to become strangulated. The presence of these pouches also explains the course which pus has been known to take in cases of perforation of the appendix, where it travels upwards behind the ascending colon as far as the Diaphragm.* Ileo-caecal valve.—The lower end of the ileum terminates at the inner and * On the anatomy of these fossi£, see a paper by Dr. RoMeston and Mr. Lock wood, Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xxvi. p. 130.