MUSCLES AND FASCIA 438 Relations.—Bj its iiuicr or j^elvic s2Lrface, ^Yith the rectum. By . its external surface, with the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. By its iK)sterior border, with the Pyriformis. Nerve-supply.—A branch from the fom-th and fifth sacral nerves. Action.—The Coccygei muscles raise and support the coccyx, after it has been pressed backwards during def^ecation or parturition. Superficial fascia.—The superficial fascia of the perinaeum consists of two layers, superficial and deep, as in other regions of the body. The suioerficial layer is thick, loose, areolar in texture, and contains much adipose tissue in its meshes, the amount of which varies in different subjects. In front, it is continuous with the dartos of the scrotum ; behind, it is continuous with the subcutaneous areolar tissue surrounding the anus ; and, on either side, with the same fascia on the inner side of the thighs. This layer should be carefully removed after it has been examined, when the deep layer will be exposed. Fig. 297.—The perinseum. The integument and superficial layer of suxDerficial fascia reflected. The deep layer of sujjerficial fascia (Fascia of Colles) is thin, aponeurotic in structure, and of considerable strength, serving to bind down the muscles of the root of the penis. It is continuous, in front, with the dartos of the scrotum ; on either side it is firmly attached to the margins of the rami of the os pubis and ischium, external to the crus penis, and as far back as the tuberosity of the ischium; posteriorly, it curves down behind the Transversus perin^ei muscles to join the lower margin of the deep perineal fascia. This fascia not only covers the muscles in this region, but sends down a vertical septum from its under surface, which separates the back part of the subjacent space into two, being incomplete in front. The central tendinous point of the Perinseum.—This is a fibrous point in the middle line of the perinaeum, between the urethra and the rectum, being about half an inch in front of the anus. At this point four muscles converge and are attached: viz. the External sphincter ani, the Accelerator urinae, and the two