437 OF THE PELVIC OUTLET of the anus. The middle fibres, which form the larger portion of the muscle, are inserted into the side of the rectum, blending with the fibres of the Sphincter muscles; lastly, the anterior fibres, the longest, descend upon the side of the prostate gland to unite beneath it with the muscle of the opposite side, blending with the fibres of the External sphincter and Transversus perinpei muscles at the central tendinous point of the perinaeum. The anterior portion is occasionally separated from the rest of the muscle by connective tissue. From this circumstance, as well as from its peculiar relation with the prostate gland, descending by its side, and surrounding it as in a sling, it has been described by Santorini and others as a distinct muscle, under the name of Levator prostata. In the female, the anterior fibres of the Levator ani descend upon the side of the vagina. Relations.—-By its inner or ]jelvic surface, with the recto-vesical fascia, which separates it from the viscera of the pelvis and from the peritoneum. By its outer Fig. 296.—Side view of pelvis, showing Levator ani. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons.) or perineal surface, it forms the inner boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa, and is covered by a thin layer of fascia, the ischio-rectal or anal fascia, given off from the obturator fascia. Its posterior border is continuous with the Coccygeus muscle. Its anterior border is separated from the muscle of the opposite side by a triangular space, through which the urethra, and in the female the vagina, passes from the pelvis. Nerve-supply.—A branch from the anterior division of the fourth sacral nerve. Actions.—This muscle su]3ports the lower end of the rectum and vagina, and also the bladder during the efforts of expulsion. It elevates and inverts the lower end of the rectum after it has been protruded and everted during the expulsion of the faces. It is also a muscle of forced expiration. The Coccygeus is situated behind and parallel with the preceding. It is a triangular plane of muscular and tendinous fibres, arising, by its apex, from the spine of the ischium and lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, and inserted, by its base, into the margin of the coccyx and into the side of the lower piece of the sacrum. This muscle is continuous with the posterior border of the Levator ani, and closes in the back part of the outlet of the pelvis.