DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA the fascia transversalis, whereas when the hernia protrudes through the internal fossa it is either forced through the fibres of the conjoined tendon, or the tendon is gradually distended in front of it, so as to form a com]3lete investment for it. The intestine then enters the lower part of the inguinal canal, and escapes from the external abdominal ring lying on the inner side of the cord. This form of hernia has the same coverings as the oblique variety, excepting that the conjoined tendon is substituted for the Cremaster, and the infundibuli- form fascia is replaced by a portion derived from the general layer of the fascia transversalis. The seat of stricture in both varieties of direct hernia is most frequently at the neck of the sac, or at the external ring. In that form of hernia which perforates the conjoined tendon, it not unfrequently occurs at the edges of the fissure through which the gut passes. In dividing the stricture, the incision should in all cases be directed upwards.* If the hernial protrusion passes into the inguinal canal, but does not escape from the external abdominal ring, it forms what is called incoiiqjlete direct hernia. This form of hernia is usually of small size, and in corpulent persons very difficult of detection. Direct inguinal hernia is of much less frequent occurrence than the oblique, their comparative frequency being, according to Cloquet, as one to five. It occurs far more frequently in men than in women, on account of the larger size of the external ring in the former sex. It differs from the oblique in its smaller size and globular form, dependent most probably on the resistance offered to its progress by the transversalis fascia and conjoined tendon. It differs also in its position, being placed over the os pubis, and not in the course of the inguinal canal. The deep epigastric artery runs on the outer or iliac side of the neck of the sac, and the spermatic cord along its external and posterior side, not directly behind it, as in oblique inguinal hernia. * In all cases of inguinal hernia, whether oblique or direct, it is proper to divide the stricture directly upwards ; the reason of this is obvious, for by cutting in this direction the incision is made parallel to the deep epigastric artery—either external to it, in the oblique variety ; or internal to it, in the direct form of hernia; and thus all chance of wounding the vessel is avoided. If the incision was made outwards, the artery might be divided if the hernia was direct ; and if made inwards it would stand an equal chance of injury if the case was one of oblique inguinal hernia.