DEVELOPMENT OF VERTEBRA 123 About the third year the body that the body is formed from Fig. 116.—Development of a vertebra. By 4t primary centres ^<^;:^^^2for hody {8fh weeA-) 1 for each lamina {6fh tveek) Fig. 117. By 4 secondary centres 1 for each trans. 2>'>'ocess yIG years 2 {sometimes 1) for spinous process (16 yean By 2 additio .1 for upper S7trface of body [-21 years ultimately formed, and thus the arch is completed, is joined to the arch on each side, in such a manner the three original centres of ossifica- tion, the amount contributed by the pedicles increasing in extent from below upwards. Thus the bodies of the sacral vertebrae are formed almost entirely from the central nuclei; the bodies of the lumbar are formed laterally and behind by the pedicles; in the dorsal region, the pedicles advance as far forward as the articular de- pressions for the head of the ribs, forming these cavities of reception ; and in the neck the lateral por- tions of the bodies are formed en- tirely by the advance of the pedi- cles. Before puberty, no other changes occur, excepting a gradual increase in the growth of these primary centres; the upper and under surfaces of the bodies, and the ends of the transverse and spinous processes, being tipped with cartilage, in which ossific granules are not as yet deposited. At six- teen years (fig. 117), four secondary centres appear, one for the tip of each transverse process, and two (sometimes united into one) for the end of the spinous process. At twenty-one years (fig. 118), a thin circular epiphysial plate of bone is formed in the layer of cartilage situ- ated on the upper and under surfaces of the body, the former being the thicker of the two. All these be- come joined, and the bone is com- pletely formed betAveen the twenty- fifth and thirtieth year of life. Exceptions to this mode of de- velopment occur in the first, second, and seventh cervical, and in the vertebrae of the lumbar region. The Atlas (fig. 119).—The number of centres of ossification of the atlas is very variable. It may be developed from two, three, four, or five centres. The most frequent arrangement is by three centres. Two of these are destined for the two lateral or neural masses, the ossification of which commences about the seventh Aveek near the articular processes, and extend backwards ; these portions of bone are separated from one another behind, at birth, by a narrow interval filled in with cartilage. By 3 centres |1 for under surface of body ' Fig. 119.—Atlas. 1 for anter. arch {1st yr) not constant '1 for each before birth lateral mass) 120.—Axis. Byi Fig ntres 3 for odontoid j^'ocess — 1/or each lateral mass 1 for body {6th month) Fig. 121.—Lumbar vertebra. 2 additional centres for tubercles on superior articular process