THE MALE URETHRA The mucous coat forms part of the genito-urinary mucous membrane. It is continuous ^^ith the mucous membrane of the bladder, ureters, and kidneys ; externally, with the integument covering the glans penis ; and is prolonged into the ducts of the glands which open into the urethra, viz. Cowper's glands and the prostate gland; and into the vasa deferentia and vesiculge seminales, through the ejaculatory ducts. In the spongy and membranous portions the mucous membrane is arranged in longitudinal folds when the organ is contracted. Small papillae are found upon it, near the orifice ; and its epithelial lining is of the columnar variety, excepting near the meatus, where it is squamous. The submucous tissue consists of a vascular erectile layer ; outside which is a layer of unstriped muscular fibres, arranged in a circular direction, which sepa- rates the mucous membrane and submucous tissue from the tissue of the corpus spongiosum. Surgical Anafvinij.—The urethra may be ruptured by the patient falling astride of any hard substance and striking his perinseum, so that the urethra is crushed agamst the pubic arch. Bleeding will at once take place from the urethra, and this, together with the bruising in the perinaeum and the history of the accident, will at once point to the nature of the injury. The sm'gical anatomy of the urethra is of considerable importance, in connection with the passage of instruments into the bladder. Otis was the first to point out that the urethra is capable of great dilatability, so that, excepting through the external meatus, an instrument corresponding to i8 English gauge (29 French) can usually be passed without damage. The orifice of the m-ethra is not so dilatable and therefore frequently requires slitting. A recognition of this dilatabiHty caused Bigelow to very considerably modify the operation of lithotrity and introduce that of litholapaxy. In passing catheters, especially fine ones, the point of the instrument should be kept as far as possible along the upper wall of the canal, as the j)oint is otherwise very liable to enter one of the lacunae. Stricture of the urethra is a disease of very common occm-rence, and is generally situated in the spongy portion of the urethra, most commonly in the bulbous portion, just in front of the membranous urethra, but in a veiw considerable number of cases in the penile or ante-scrotal part of the canal.