GENEKAL ANATOMY I02 ve^-tebral column. At either extremity it forms a closed tube, in consequence of the cephalic and caudal flexures (page 77), and this manifestly divides it into three parts; a front part, enclosed in the cephalic fold, called the fore-gut; a posterior part, enclosed in the caudal fold, the Jiind-gnt; and a central part or mid-gut, Fig. 102.—Diagrammatic outline of a longitudinal vertical section of the chick on the fourtli day. ep. Epiblast. .fin. Somatic mesoblast. Juj. Hypoblast, vm. Visceral mesoblast. /if. C'eplialic fold. jif. Caudal fold. am. Cavity of true amnion, ys. Yolk-sac. /. Intestine, s. Stomacli and iiliar> nx. a. Future anus, still closed. m. The mouth, ine. The mesentery, nl. The allantoic vesicle, j^p. Space bt'tween iiuier and outer folds of amnion. (From Quain's 'Anatomy,' Allen Thomson.) Fig. 103.—Early form of the alimentary canal. (From KoUiker, after Bischoff.) which at this time freely communicates with the umbilical vesicle (fig. 102). The ends of the fore- and hind-gut do not communicate with the surface of the body, the buccal and anal orifices being subsequently formed by involutions of the epiblast, which later on form communications with the gut. From the fore-gut are developed the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and duodenum; from the hind- gut a part of the rectum ; and from the middle division the rest of the in- testinal tube (fig. 103). The changes which take place in the fore-gut are as follow: The middle portion becomes dilated to form the stomach, and under- goes a vertical rotation to the right, so that the posterior border, by which it is attached to the vertebral column by a mesentery, is now directed to the left, and the anterior border to the right. At this time it is straight, but it soon undergoes a lateral curve or bend to the right at its upper end. It thus assumes an oblique direction, and the left border (originally the posterior or attached border) becomes inferior, and forms the great curvature. The mesentery by which it was attached forms the great omentum. The por- tion of the fore-gut above this dilata- tion remains straight, forming the pharynx and oesophagus, and in conse- quence of the mesoblast being here un- divided, there is no serous investment to this part of the tube. Below this, division of the mesoblast has taken place, and the splanchnopleure alone forms the walls of the remainder of the intestinal canal, the space between this layer and the somatopleure constituting the pleuro-peritoneal cavity. The part of the fore-gut below the dilated stomach forms the duodenum, and in connection with this the liver and pancreas are developed. In A a front view, and in b an antero-posterior section are represented, a. Four pharyngeal or visceral plates, b. The pharynx, c, c. The commencing lungs. '/. The ptomach. /, /. The diverticula connected with the formation of the liver. (/. The yolk-sac into which the middle intestinal groove opens, h. The posterior part of tlie intestine.