3 THE BLOOD proteid compound of a very complex constitution (C(,oo? Hg^^o, N,54, FeSg, O179). It has a great affinity for oxygen, and when removed from the body crystallises readily under certain circumstances. It is readily soluble in water, and the addition of this fluid to a drop of blood speedily dissolves out haemoglobin from the corpuscle. If the web of a frog's foot is spread out and examined under the microscope, the blood is seen to flow in a continuous stream through the vessels, and the corpuscles shoAv no tendency to axlhere to each other or to the wall of the vessel. Doubtless the same is the case in the human body ; but when drawn and examined on a slide without reagents, the blood-globules often collect into heaps like rouleaux of coins (fig. I, c). During life the red corpuscles may be seen to change their shape under pres- sure so as to adapt themselves to some extent to the size of the vessel. They are also highly elastic, for they speedily recover their shape when the pressure is removed. They are soon influenced by the medium in which they are placed, and by the specific gravity of the medium. In water they swell up, lose their shape, and become globular; subsequently the haemoglobin becomes dissolved out, and the envelope can be barely distinguished as a faint, circular outline. Solutions of salt or sugar, denser than the serum, give them a stellate or crenated appear- ance ; and the usual shape may be restored by diluting the solution to the proper point. The same crenated outline may be produced as the first effect of the passage of an electric shock; subsequently, if sufficiently strong, the shock ruptures the envelope. A solution of salt or sugar of the same specific gravity as serum merely separates the blood-globules mechanically without changing their shape. The white corpuscles (fig. 2) are rather larger than the red in human blood, measuring from about 2-0110" ^^Vo of ii^ch in diameter. They consist of a transparent granular-looking protoplasm containing one, two, or more nuclei, and presenting bright granules, usually of a fatty nature, but which sometimes are of a reddish colour, and are then supposed by some observers to be in a transition stage between the white and red corpuscles. When absolutely at rest they are rounded or spheroidal, but under ordi- nary circumstances their form is very various, and they have the remarkable property of un- dergoing ' amoeboid ' changes (fig. 3). That is to say, they have the power of sending out finger-shaped or filamen- AVbite corpuscles of Imman blood, d. Red corpuscles. High power. tous processes of their own substance, by which they move and take up granules from the surrounding sub- stance. In locomotion the corpuscle pushes out a process of its substance—a pseiidopodium, as it is called—and then shifts the rest of the body into it. In the same way, when any granule or particle comes in its way, it wraps a pseudo- FiG. 3.—Human colourless blood-corpuscle, showing its successive changes of outline within ten minutes when kept moist on a warm stage. (Schofield.) '3fci ^ a S !£3 6 V. podium round it, and then withdrawing it, lodges the particle in its own substance. By means of these amoeboid properties they have the powder of wandering or emigrating from the blood-vessels, by penetrating their coats, and thus finding their way into the perivascular spaces. The white corpuscle may be taken as the type of a true animal cell. It has no limiting membrane, but consists of a mass of transparent albuminous substance, B 2 ® Fig o