SPINAL NEEVES 78q These may be arranged according to the parts they supply :— To the chest .... Anterior thoracic To the shoulder . To the arm, forearm, and hand . J ( Subscapular. [ Circumflex. , Musculo-cutaneous. I Internal cutaneous. Lesser internal cutaneous. Median. Ulnar. Musculo-spiral. The fasciculi of which these nerves are composed may be traced through the plexus to the spinal nerves from which they originate. They are as follows :— External anterior thoracic from 5th, 6th, and 7th cervical. Internal anterior thoracic „ 8th cervical and ist dorsal. Subscapular „ 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th cervical. Circumflex 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th cervical. Musculo-cutaneous „ 5th, 6th, and 7th cervical. Internal cutaneous ,, 8th cervical and ist dorsal. Lesser internal cutaneous „ ist dorsal. Median „ 6th, 7th, and 8th cervical, and ist dorsal. Ulnar ,, 8th cervical and ist dorsal. Musculo-spiral „ 6th, 7th, and 8th cervical, and ist dorsal. The Anterior Thoracic Nerves (fig. 461), two in number, supply the Pectoral muscles. The external or superficial nerve, the larger of the two, arises from the outer cord of the brachial plexus, through which its fibres may be traced to the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves. It passes inwards, across the axillary artery and vein, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, and is distributed to the under surface of the Pectoralis major. It sends down a communicating filament to join the internal nerve, which forms a loop round the inner side of the axillary artery. The internal or deep nerve arises from the inner cord, and through it from the eighth cervical and first dorsal. It passes upwards between the axillary artery and vein, and joins with the filament from the superficial nerve. It then passes to the under surface of the Pectoralis minor muscle, where it divides into a number of branches, which supply the muscle on its under surface. Some of the branches pass through the muscle ; others wind round its upper border and pierce the costo- coracoid membrane to supply the Pectoralis major. The Subscapular Nerves, three in number, supply the Subscapularis, Teres major, and Latissimus dorsi muscles. The fasciculi of which they are composed may be traced to the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves. The upper subscapular nerve, the smallest, enters the upper part of the Sub- scapularis muscle. The loiver subscapular nerve enters the axillary border of the Subscapularis, and terminates in the Teres major. The latter muscle is sometimes supplied by a separate branch. The middle or long subscapular, the largest of the three, follows the course of the subscapular artery, along the posterior wall of the axilla to the Latissimus dorsi, through which it may be traced as far as its lower border. The Circumflex Nerve (fig. 462) supplies some of the muscles, and the integu- ment of the shoulder, and'the:shoulder-joint. It arises from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, in common with the musculo-spiral nerve, and its fibres may be traced through the posterior cord to the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cer- vical nerves. It is at first placed behind the axillary artery, between it and the Subscapularis muscle, and passes downwards and outwards to the lower border of that muscle. It then winds backwards, in company with the posterior circumflex