OEGANS OF SENSE 854 in this fold, and in some of the domesticated animals a thin plate of cartilage has been discovered. This structm^e is considered to be the rudiment of the third eyelid in birds, the memhrana nictitans. Lachrymal Apparatus (fig. 498) The lachrym.al apparatus consists of the lachrymal gland, which secretes the tears, and its excretory ducts, which convey the fluid to the surface of the eye. This fluid is carried away by the lachrymal canals into the lachrymal sac, and along the nasal duct into the cavity of the nose. The lachrymal gland is lodged in a depression at the outer angle of the orbit, on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is of an oval form, about the size and shape of an almond. Its upper convex surface is in contact with the periosteum of the orbit, to which it is connected by a few fibrous bands. Its under concave surface rests upon the convexity of the eyeball, and upon the Superior and External recti muscles. Its vessels and nerves enter its posterior border, whilst its anterior margin is closely adherent to the back part of the upper eyelid, where it is covered to a slight extent by the reflection of the con- junctiva. The fore part of the gland is separated from the rest by a fibrous septum ; Fig. 498.—The lachrymal apparatus. Eight side. a ?* m\ hence it is sometimes described as a separate lobe, called the palpebral portion of the gland (accessory gland of Bosenmuller). Its ducts, about seven in number, run obliquely beneath the mucous membrane for a short distance, and, separating from each other, open by a series of minute orifices on the upper and outer half of the conjunctiva, near its reflection on to the globe. These orifices are arranged in a row, so as to disperse the secretion over the surface of the membrane. Structure of the lachrymal gland.—In structure and general appearance the lachrymal resembles the serous salivary glands (page 890). In the recent state the cells are so crowded with granules that their limits can hardly be defined. They contain an oval nucleus, and the cell protoplasm is finely fibrillated. The lachrymal canals commence at the minute orifices, pimcta lachrymalia, on the summit of a small conical elevation, the lachrymal papilla, seen on the margin of the hds, at the outer extremity of the lacus lachrymahs. The superior canal, the smaller and shorter of the two, at first ascends, and then bends at an acute angle, and passes inwards and downwards to the lachrymal sac. The inferior canal at first descends, and then, abruptly changing its course, passes almost horizontally inwards to the lachrymal sac. They are dense and elastic in structure and someAvhat dilated at their angle. The mucous membrane is covered with scaly epithelium.