358 AETICULATIONS it yields, the head of the astragakis is pressed downwards, inwards, and forwards by the weight of the body, and the foot becomes flattened, expanded, and turned outwards, con- stituting the disease known as fiat-fooi. This ligament contains a considerable amount of elastic fibre, so as to give elasticity- to the arch and spring to the foot ; hence it is sometimes called the ' spring' ligament. It is supported, on its under surface, by the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, which spreads out at its insertion into a number of fasciculi, which are attached to most of the tarsal and meta- tarsal bones; this prevents undue stretching Fig. 266. —Ligaments of plantar sm^face of the ligament, and is a protection against the occurrence of flat-foot. 4. Akticulation of the Asteagalus WITH THE NaVICULAE BoNE The articulation between the astra- galus and navicular is an artlirodial joint: the rounded head of the astragalus being received into the concavity formed by the posterior surface of the navicular, the anterior articulating surface of the cal- caneum, and the upper surface of the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament, which fills up the triangular interval between those bones. The only ligament of this joint is the superior astragalo- navicular. It is a broad band, which passes obliquely forwards from the neck of the astragalus to the superior surface of the navicular bone. It is thin, and weak in texture, and covered by the Extensor tendons. The inferior calcaneo- navicular supplies the place of an inferior ligament. The Synovial Membrane which lines the joint is continued forwards from the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. Actions.—This articulation permits of considerable mobility; but its feebleness is such as to allow occasionally of disloca- tion of the other bones of the tarsus from the astragalus. The transverse tarsal or medio-tar sal joint is formed by the articulation of the OS calcis with the cuboid, and by the articulation of the astragalus with the navicular. The movement which takes place in this joint is more extensive than that in the other tarsal joints, and consists of a sort of rotation by means of w^hich the sole of the foot may be slightly flexed and extended or carried inwards and outwards. 5. The Akticulation of the Navicular with the Cuneiform Bones The navicular is connected to the three cuneiform bones by Dorsal and Plantar ligaments. The Dorsal Ligaments are small, longitudinal bands of fibrous tissue, arranged as three bundles, one to each of the cuneiform bones. That bundle of fibres which connects the navicular with the internal cuneiform is continued round the inner side of the articulation to be continuous with the plantar ligament which connects these two bones. The Plantar Ligaments have a similar arrangement to those on the dorsum. They are strengthened by processes given off from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. of the foot.