284 THE SKELETON muscle, which is spread out into a fan-shaped insertion, and prevents undue tension of the Ugament or such an amount of stretching as would permanently elongate it. In addition to this longitudinal arch the foot presents a transverse arch, at the anterior part of the tarsus and hinder part of the metatarsus. This, however, can scarcely be described as a true arch, but presents more the character of a half-dome. The inner border of the central portion of the longitudinal arch is elevated from the ground, and from this point the bones arch over to the outer border, which is in contact with the ground, and, assisted by the longitudinal arch, produce a sort of rounded niche on the inner side of the foot, which gives the appearance of a transverse as well as a longitudinal arch. The arch of the foot, from the point of the heel to the toes, is not quite straight, but is directed a little outwards, so that the inner border is a little convex and the outer border concave. This disposition of the bones becomes more marked when the longitudinal arch of the foot is lost, as in the disease known under the name of ' flat-foot.' Surface Form.—On the dorsimi of the foot the individual bones are not to be distinguished, with the exception of the head of the astragalus, which forms a rounded projection in front of the ankle-joint when the foot is forcibly extended. The whole surface forms a smooth convex outline, the summit of which is the ridge formed by the head of the astragalus, the navicular, the middle cuneiform, and the second metatarsal bones ; from this it gradually inclines outwards and more rapidly inwards. On the inner side of the foot, the internal tuberosity of the os calcis and the ridge separating the inner from the posterior surface of the bone may be felt most posteriorly. In front of this, and below the internal malleolus, may be felt the projection of the sustentaculum tali. Passing forwards is the well-marked tuberosity of the navicular bone, situated about an inch or an inch and a quarter in front of the internal malleolus. Further towards the front, the ridge formed by the base of the first metatarsal bone can be obscurely felt, and from this the shaft of the bone can be traced to the expanded head articulating with the base of the hrst phalanx of the great toe. Immediately beneath the base of this phalanx, the internal sesamoid bone is to be felt. Lastly, the expanded ends of the bones forming the last joint of the great toe are to be felt. On the outer side of the foot the most posterior bony point is the outer tuberosity of the os calcis, with the ridge separating the posterior from the outer surface of the bone. In front of this the greater part of the external surface of the OS calcis is subcutaneous; on it, below and in front of the external malleolus, may be felt the peroneal ridge, when this process is present. Farther forwards, the base of the fifth metatarsal bone forms a prominent and well-defined landmark, and in front of this the shaft of the bone, with its expanded head, and the base of the first phalanx may be defined. The sole of the foot is almost entirel}^ covered l^y soft parts, so that but few bony parts are to be made out, and these somewhat obscurely. The hinder part of the under surface of the os calcis and the heads of the metatarsal bones, with the exception of the first, which is concealed by the sesamoid bones, may be recognised. Surgical Anatomy.—Considering the injuries to which the foot is subjected, it is surprising how seldom the tarsal bones are fractured. This is no doubt due to the fact that the tarsus is composed of a number of bones, articulated by a considerable extent of surface and joined together b}^ ver}^ strong ligaments, which serve to break the force of violence applied to this part of the body. When fracture does occur, these bones, being composed for the most part of a soft cancellous structure, covered only by a thin shell of compact tissue, are often extensively comminuted, especially as most of the fractmes are produced by direct violence. And having only a very scanty amount of soft parts over them, the fractm-es are very often compoimd, and amputation is frequently necessary. When fracture occm^s in the anterior group of tarsal bones, it is almost invariably the result of direct violence; but fractm^es of the posterior group, that is, of the calcaneum and astragalus, are most frequently produced by falls from a height on to the feet; though fracture of the os calcis may be caused by direct violence or by nniscular action. The posterior part of the bone, that is, the part behind the articular sm-faces, is almost always the seat of the fracture, though some few cases of fracture of the sustentaculum tali and of vertical fracture between the two articulating facets have been recorded. The neck of the astragalus, being the weakest part of the bone, is most frequently fractured, though fractures may occur in any part and almost in any direction, either associated or not with fractiu-e of other bones. In cases of club foot, especially in congenital cases, the bones of the tarsus become altered in shape and size, and displaced from their proper positions. This is especially the case in congenital equino-varus, in which the astragalus, particularly about the head, becomes twisted and atrophied, and a similar condition may be present in the other bones, more especially the navicidar. The tarsal bones are peculiarly liable to become the seat