OEGANS OF DIGESTION 944 to avoid wounding the pancreas, as the escape of the pancreatic fluid may be attended with serious resuhs. According to Billroth, it is likely, in consequence of its peptonising qualities, to dissolve the cicatrix of the stomach. The Spleen The Spleen was formerly classified, together with the thyroid, thymus, and suprarenal capsules, as one of the ductless, or blood glands. It possesses no excretory duct. It is of an oblong, flattened form, soft, of very brittle consistence, highly vascular, of a dark bluish-red colour, and situated in the left hypochondriac region, embracing the cardiac end of the stomach. It is invested by peritoneum, and connected with the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum. Relations.—The external and posterior surface is convex, smooth, and in relation wdth the under surface of the Diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs of the left side. The internal surface is concave, and divided by a vertical fissure, the hilum, into an anterior or larger, and a posterior or smaller portion. The hilum is pierced by several irregular apertures, for the entrance and exit of vessels and nerves. At the margins of the hilum, the two layers of peritoneum are reflected from the surface of the spleen on to the cardiac end of the stomach, forming the gastro-splenic omentum, which contains between its layers the splenic vessels and nerves, and the vasa brevia. In front of the hilum the internal surface, which is directed somewhat forwards, is broad and concave and in contact with the great end of the stomach ; and, below this, with the tail of the pancreas and splenic flexure of the colon. Behind the hilum the internal surface, which is here directed inwards, presents a smooth concave fossa, which rests on the upper and outer border of the left kidney. The upper end, thick and rounded, is in relation with the Diaphragm, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum, the suspensory ligament. The loiver end is pointed, and rests on the costo-colic ligament. The anterior margin is free, rounded, and often notched, especially below. The spleen is held in its position by two folds of peritoneum : one, the gastro- splenic omentum, connects it with the stomach ; and the other, the suspensory ligament, with the under surface of the Diaphragm. It is also supported by the costo-colic ligament, upon which its lower end rests (see page 907). The size and weight of the spleen are liable to very extreme variations at different periods of life, in different individuals, and in the same individual under different conditions. In the adult, in whom it attains its greatest size, it is usually about five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and an inch or an inch and a half in thickness, and weighs about seven ounces. At birth, its weight, in proportion to the entire body, is almost equal to what is observed in the adult, being as i to 350 : whilst in the adult it varies from i to 320 and 400. In old age the organ not only decreases in weight, but decreases considerably in proportion to the entire body, being as i to 700. The size of the spleen is increased during and after digestion, and varies considerably according to the state of nutrition of the body, being large in highly-fed, and small in starved animals. In intermittent and other fevers it becomes much enlarged, weighing occasionally from 18 to 20 pounds. Structure.—The spleen is invested by two coats—an external serous, and an internal fibro-elastic coat. The external or serous coat is derived from the peritoneum ; it is thin, smooth, and in the human subject intimately adherent to the fibro-elastic coat. It invests almost the entire organ ; being reflected from it, at the hilum, on to the great end of the stomach, and at the upper end of the organ on to the Diaphragm. The fibro-elastic coat forms the framework of the spleen. It invests the exterior of the organ,- and at the hilum is reflected inwards upon the vessels in the form of vaginae or sheaths. From these sheaths, as well as from the inner surface of the fibro-elastic coat, numerous small fibrous bands, trabeculce (fig. 556), are given off in all directions ; these uniting, constitute the areolar framework of the spleen. The framework of the spleen resembles, therefore, a sponge-like material, consisting of a number of small spaces or areolce, formed by the trabeculae, which