CARTILAGE 19 CARTILAGE Cartilage is a non-vascular structure which is found in various parts of the body—in adult life chiefly in the joints, in the parietes of the thorax, and in various tubes, such as the air-passages, nostrils, and ears, which are to be kept permanently open. In the foetus at an early period the greater part of the skeleton is cartilaginous. As this cartilage is afterwards replaced by bone, it is called tefiiporary, in contra- distinction to that which remains unossified during the whole of life, and which is called permanent. Cartilage is divided, according to its minute structure, into true or hyaline cartilage, fibrous or fibro-cartilage, and yellow or elastic or reticular cartilage Besides these varieties met with in the adult human subject, there is a variety called cellular cartilage, which consists entirely, or almost entirely, of cells, united in some cases by a network of very fine fibres, in other cases apparently destitute of any intercellular substance. This is found in the external ear of rats, mice, and some other animals, and is present in the chorda dorsalis of the haman embryo, but is not found in any other human structure. The various cartilages in the body are also classified, according to their function and position, into articular, interarticular, costal, and membraniform. Hyaline cartilage, which may be taken as the type of this tissue, consists of a gristly mass of a firm consistence, but of considerable elasticity and of a pearly- bluish colour. Except where it coats the articular ends of bones, it is enveloped in a fibrous membrane, the perichoudriwn, from the vessels of which it imbibes its nutritive fluids, being itself destitute of blood-vessels; nor have any nerves been traced into it. Its intimate structure is very simple. If a thin slice is examined under the micro- scope, it will be found to consist of cells of a rounded or bluntly angular form, lying in groups of two or more in a granular or almost homogeneous matrix (fig. 22). The cells, when arranged in groups of two or more, have generally a straight outline where they are in contact with each other, and in the rest of their circumference are Tounded. The cell-contents consist of clear translucent protoplasm, containing minute granules, and embedded in this are one or two nuclei, having usually a granular appearance, but occasionally being clear and occupied by one or more nucleoli. The cells are embedded in cavities in the matrix, called cartilage lacuncE, which are lined by a distinct transparent membrane called the capsule. Each lacuna is generally occupied by a single cell, but during the division of the cells it may contain two, four, or eight cartilage-cells. By boiling the cartilage for some hours and treating it with concentrated mineral acid, the capsule may be freed from the matrix and can then be demonstrated as a distinct vesicle con- taining the cells. By exposure to the action of an electric shock the cell assumes a jagged outline and shrinks away from the interior of the capsule. The matrix is transparent and apparently without structure, or else presents a dimly granular appearance, like ground glass. Some observers have shown that the matrix of hyaline cartilage, and especially the articular variety, after prolonged maceration, can be broken up into fine fibrils. These fibrils are prob- \ ably of the same nature, chemically, as the white fibres of connective tissue. It \ is believed by some histologists that the matrix is permeated by a number of fine channels, which connect the lacunae with each other, and that these canals Fig. 22.—Human cartilage-cells, from the cricoid cartilage. Magnified 350 times.