440 MUSCLES AND FASCIA arises from the central tendon of the perinsemn, and from the median raphe in front. From this point its fibres diverge like the plumes of a pen ; the most posterior form a thin layer, which are lost on the anterior surface of the triangular ligament; the middle fibres encircle the bulb and adjacent parts of the corpus spongiosum, and join with the fibres of the opposite side, on the upper part of the corpus spongiosum, in a strong aponeurosis ; the anterior fibres, the longest and most distinct, spread out over the sides of the corpus cavernosum, to be inserted partly into that body, anterior to the Erector penis, occasionally extending to the OS pubis ; partly terminating in a tendinous expansion, which covers the dorsal vessels of the penis. The latter fibres are best seen by dividing the muscle longitudinally, and dissecting it outwards from the surface of the urethra. Action.—This muscle serves to empty the canal of the urethra, after the bladder has expelled its contents ; during the greater part of the act of micturition its fibres are relaxed, and it only comes into action at the end of the process. The Fig. 299.—The superficial muscles and vessels of the perinsenm. middle fibres are supposed, by Krause, to assist in the erection of the corpus spongiosum, by compressing the erectile tissue of the bulb. The anterior fibres, according to Tyrrel, also contribute to the erection of the penis, as they are inserted into, and continuous with, the fascia of the penis, compressing the dorsal vein during the contraction of the muscle. The Erector penis covers the unattached part of the crus penis. It is an elongated muscle, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and situated on either side of the lateral boundary of the perinseum. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the crus penis, from the surface of the crus, and from the adjacent portion of the ramus of the ischium. From these points fleshy fibres succeed, which end in an aponeurosis which is inserted into the sides and under surface of the crus penis. Nerve-supply.—The perineal branch of the internal pudic. Actions.—It compresses the crus penis and retards the return of the blood through the veins, and thus serves to maintain the organ erect.