SUEGICAL ANATOMY between the Peronei muscles and the Extensor longus digitorum, pierces the deep fascia at the lower third of the leg, on its front and outer side, and divides into two branches. This nerve, in its course between the muscles, gives off muscular branches to the Peroneus longus and brevis, and cutaneous filaments to the integument of the lower part of the leg. The internal branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve passes in front of the ankle-joint, and along the dorsum of the foot, supplying the inner side of the great toe, and the adjoining sides of the second and third toes. It also supplies the integument of the inner ankle and inner side of the foot, communicating with the internal saphenous nerve, and joins with the anterior tibial nerve, between the great and second toes. The external branch, the larger, passes along the outer side of the dorsum of the foot, to be distributed to the adjoining sides of the third, fourth, and fifth toes. It also supplies the integument of the outer ankle and outer side of the foot, com- municating with the short saphenous nerve. The distribution of these branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve will be found to vary; together, they supply all the toes excepting the outer side of the little toe, and the adjoining sides of the great and second toes, the former being supplied by the external saphenous, and the latter by the internal branch of the anterior tibial. Surgical Anatomy.—The lumbar plexus passes through the Psoas muscle, and, there- fore, in psoas abscess, any or all of its branches may be irritated, causing severe pain in the part to which the irritated nerves are distributed. The genito-crural nerve is the one which is most frequently implicated. This nerve is also of importance, as it is concerned in one of the principal reflexes employed in the investigation of diseases of the spine. It the skin over the inner side of the thigh just below Poupart's ligament, the part supplied by the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, be gently tickled in a male child, the testicle will be noticed to be drawn upwards, through the action of the Cremaster muscle, supplied by the genital branch of the same nerve. The same result may sometimes be noticed in adults, and can almost always be produced by severe stimulation. This reflex, when present, shows that the portion of the cord from which the first and second lumbar nerves are derived is in a normal condition. The anterior crm-al nerve is in danger of being injured in fractures of the true pelvis, since the fracture most commonly takes place through the horizontal ramus of the os pubis, at or near the point where this nerve crosses the bone. It is also liable to be injured in fractm-es and dislocations of the femur, and is likely to be pressed upon, and its functions impaired, in some tumours growing in the pelvis. Moreover, on account of its superficial position, it is exposed to injury in wounds and stabs in the groin. "When this nerve is paralysed, the patient is unable to flex his hip completely, on account of the loss of motion in the Iliacus ; or to extend the knee on the thigh, on account of paralysis of the Quadriceps extensor cruris ; there is complete paralysis of the Sartorius, and partial paralysis of the Pectineus. There is loss of sensation down the front and inner side of the thigh, except in that part supplied by the crural branch of the genito-crural, and by the iho-inguinal. There is also loss of sensation down the inner side of the leg and foot as far as the ball of the great toe. The obturator nerve is of special surgical interest. It is rarely paralysed alone, but occasionally in association with the anterior crural. The principal interest attached to it is in connection with its supply to the knee ; pain in the knee being symptomatic of many diseases in which the trunk of this nerve, or one of its branches, is irritated. Thus it is well known that in the earlier stages of hip-joint disease the patient does not complain of pain in that articulation, but on the inner side of the knee, or in the knee- joint itself, both these articulations being supplied by the obturator nerve, the final distribution of the nerve being to the knee-joint. Again, the same thing occurs in sacro- iliac disease : pain is complained of in the knee-joint, or on its inner side. The obtur- ator nerve is in close relationship with the sacro-iliac articulation, passing over it, and, according to some anatomists, distributing filaments to it. Again, in cancer of the sigmoid flexure, and even in cases where masses of hardened faeces are impacted in this portion of the gut, pain is complained of in the knee. The obturator nerve lies beneath the sigmoid flexure, and is readily pressed upon and irritated when disease exists in this part of the intestine. Finally, pain in the knee forms an important diagnostic sign in obtur- ator hernia. The hernial protrusion as it passes out through the opening in the obturator membrane presses upon the nerve and causes pain in the parts supplied by its peripheral filaments. When the obturator nerve is paralysed, the patient is unable to press his knees together or to cross one leg over the other, on account of paralysis of the Adductor muscles. Potation outwards of the thigh is impaired from paralysis of the Obturator externus. Sometimes there is loss of sensation in the upper half of the inner side of the leg.