TEMPORAL BONE 147 The Petrous Portion (Trerpos, a stone), so named from its extreme density and hardness, is a pyramidal process of bone, wedged in at the base of the skull between the sphenoid and occipital bones. Its direction from without is inwards, forwards, and a little downwards. It presents for examination a base, an apex, three surfaces, and three borders ; and contains, in its interior, the essential parts of the organ of hearing. The base is applied against the internal surface of the squamous and mastoid portions, its upper half being concealed ; but its lower half is exposed by the divergence of those two portions of the bone, which brings into view the oval expanded orifice of a canal leading into the tympanum, the meatus auclitorius externus. This canal is situated in front of the mastoid process, and between the posterior and middle roots of the zygoma ; its upper margin is smooth and rounded, but the greater part of its circumference is surrounded by a curved Fig. 140.—Section through the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal bone, showing the communication of the cavity of the tympanum with the mastoid cells. plate of bone, the auditory j^rocess, the free margin of which is thick and rough, for the attachment of the cartilage of the external ear. The apex of the ]Detrous portion, rough and uneven, is received into the angular interval between the posterior border of the greater wing of the sphenoid and the basilar process of the occipital; it presents the anterior or internal orifice of the carotid canal, and forms the posterior and external boundary of the foramen lacerum medium. The anterior surface of the petrous portion (fig. 139) forms the posterior part of the middle fossa of the skull. This surface is continuous with the squamous portion, to which it is united by a suture, the temporal or petro-squamous suture, the remains of which are distinct even at a late period of life; it presents six points for examination : i. an eminence near the centre, which indicates the situation of the superior semicircular canal: 2. on the outer side of this eminence a depression, indicating the position of the tympanum ; here the layer of bone which separates the tympanum from the cranial cavity is extremely thin, and is known as the teg men tympani: 3. a shallow groove, sometimes double, leading outwards and backwards to an oblique opening, the hiatus Fallopii, for the passage of the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve and the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery : 4. a smaller opening, occasionally seen external to the latter, for the passage of the smaller petrosal nerve: 5. near the apex of the bone, the L 2