SINUSES OF THE DUEA MATEE 641 are frequently of unequal size, that formed by the superior longitudinal sinus being the larger, and they increase in size as they proceed from behind forwards. The horizontal portion is of a triangular form, the curved portion semicylindrical. Their inner surface is smooth, and not crossed by the fibrous bands found in the other sinuses. These sinuses receive the blood from the superior petrosal sinuses at the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and they unite with the inferior petrosal sinus, just external to the jugular foramen, to form the internal jugular vein (fig. 386). They communicate with the veins of the pericranium by means of the mastoid and posterior condyloid veins, and they receive some of the inferior cerebral and inferior cerebellar veins, and some veins from the diploe. The Occipital is the smallest of the cranial sinuses. It is generally single, but occasionally there are two. It is situated in the attached margin of the falx cere- belli. It commences by several small veins around the margin of the foramen magnum, one of which joins the termination of the lateral sinus ; it communicates with the posterior spinal veins, and terminates in the torcular Herophili. The sinuses at the base of the skull are, the Cavernous. Superior Petrosal. Circular. Inferior Petrosal. Transverse. The Cavernous Sinuses are named from their presenting a reticulated structure. They are two in number, of large size, and placed one on each side of the sella Fig. 384.—Plan showing the relative position of the structures in the right cavernous sinus, viewed from behind. turcica, extending from the sphenoidal fissure to the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; they receive anteriorly the ophthalmic vein through the sphenoidal fissure, and open behind into the petrosal sinuses. On the inner wall of each sinus is found the internal carotid artery, accompanied by filaments of the carotid plexus and by the sixth nerve; and on its outer wall, the third, fourth, and ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. These parts are separated from the blood flowing along the sinus by the lining membrane, which is continuous with the inner coat of the veins. The cavity of the sinus, which is larger behind than in front, is intersected by filaments of fibrous tissue and small vessels. The cavernous sinuses receive some of the cerebral veins; they communicate with the lateral sinuses by means of the superior and inferior petrosal, and with the facial vein through the ophthalmic. They also communicate with each other by means of the circular sinus. Surgical Anatomy.—An arterio-venous communication may be established between the cavernous sinus and the carotid artery, as it lies in it, giving rise to a pulsating tumour in the orbit. These communications may be the result of injury, such as a bullet wound, a stab, or a blow or fall sufficiently severe to cause a fracture of the base of the skull in this situation ; or they may occur idiopathically, from the rupture of an aneurism or a diseased condition of the internal carotid artery. The disease begins with sudden noise and pain in the head, followed by exophthalmos, and development of a pulsating tumour at the margin of the orbit, with thrill and the characteristic bruit. In some cases the opposite orbit becomes affected by the passage of the arterial blood into the opposite sinus by means of the circular sinus. Or the arterial blood may find its way through the emissary veins (see page 643) into the pterygoid plexus, and thence into the vems ot the face. Pulsating tumours of the orbit mav also be due to traumatic aneurism of one of the T T