THE URINARY ORGANS 998 called the distal convoluted tubule. This again terminates in a narrow curved tube, which enters the straight or collecting tube. Each straight, otherwise called a collecting or receiving tube, commences by a small orifice on the summit of one of the papillae, thus opening and discharging its contents into the interior of one of the calices. Traced into the substance of the pyramid, these tubes are found to run from apex to base, dividing dichotomously in their course and slightly diverging from each' other. Thus dividing and subdividing, they reach the base of the pyramid, and enter the cortical structure greatly increased in number. Upon entering the cortical portion they continue a straight course for a variable distance, and are arranged in groups, called medullary rays, several of these groups corresponding to a single pyramid. The tubes in the centre of the group are the longest, and reach almost to the surface of the kidney. while the external ones are shorter, and advance only a short distance into the cortex. In consequence of this arrangement the cortical portion presents a number of conical masses, the apices of Avhich reach the periphery of the organ, and the bases are applied to the medullary portion. These.are termed the pyramids of Ferrein. As they run through the cortical portion, the straight tubes receive on either side the curved extremity of the convoluted tubes, which, as stated above, commence at the Malpighian bodies. It will be seen from the above description that there is a continuous series of tubes from their commencement in the Malpighian bodies, to their termination at the orifices on the apices of the pyramids of Malpighi ; and that the urine, the secretion of which commences in the capsule, finds its way through these tubes into the calices of the kidney, and so into the ureter. Commencing at the capsule, the tube first presents a narrow constricted portion (i) the nech. 2. It forms a wide convoluted tube, the iwoximal convoluted tttbe, 3. It becomes spiral, the spiral Fig. 589.—Uriniferons tube. CURVED COLLECTING TUBULE DISTAL CONVO- LUTED