ARTICULATIONS 336 four inner fingers is limited to a slight gliding of the articular surfaces upon each other, the extent of which varies in the different joints. Thus the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the little finger is most movable, then that of the ring- finger. The metacarpal bones of the index and middle fingers are almost immovable. Articulations of the Metacarpal Bones with each other The carpal extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones articulate with one another at each side by small surfaces covered with cartilage, and connected together by dorsal, palmar, and interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal and Palmar Ligaments pass transversely from one bone to another on the dorsal and palmar surfaces. The Interosseous Ligaments pass between their contiguous surfaces, just beneath their lateral articular facets. The Synovial Membrane between the lateral facets is a reflection from that between the two rows of carpal bones. The Transverse Metacarpal Ligament (fig. 252) is a narrow fibrous band, which passes transversely across the anterior surfaces of the digital extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones, con- Fm. 2S2.-Articulations of the phalanges. ff ^^^f ^^^m together. It is ^ blended anteriorly with the anterior (glenoid) ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal ar- ticulations. To its posterior border is connected the fascia which covers the Interossei muscles. Its superficial sur- face is concave where the flexor tendons pass over it. Beneath it the tendons of the Interossei muscles pass to their insertion. X. Metacarpo-phalangeal Articulations (fig. 252) These articulations are of the condyloid kind, formed by the reception of the rounded head of the metacarpal bone into a superficial cavity in the extremity of the first phalanx. The ligaments are : Anterior. Two Lateral. UATERAl- L Metacarj)o-ph a I a ngea I articulaticii Phalangeal articulations The Anterior Ligaments (Glenoid Ligaments of Cru- veilhier) are thick, dense, fibrous structures, placed on the palmar surface of the joints in the intervals be- tween the lateral ligaments, to which they are connected; they are loosely united to the metacarpal bone, but very firmly to the base of the first phalanges. Their palmar surface is intimately blended with the transverse metacarpal ligament, and presents a groove for the passage of the flexor tendons, the