717 FOENIX on the exterior of the brain. This sulcus is filled with grey substance, which projects along the free margin of the hippocampus major, forming a notched ridge, the fascia dcntata. The hippocampus is covered on its ventricular surface by a thin lamina of grey matter, which is continuous with the corpus fimbriatum of the fornix. The emiiientia collateralis, or pes accessorius, has already been mentioned, as a white eminence, varying in size, placed between the hippocampus major and hippocampus minor, at the junction of the posterior with the descending cornu. It is formed by the protrusion inwards of the collateral fissure. Fascia dentata.—On separating the inner border of the corpus fimbriatum from the choroid plexus, and raising the edge of the former, a serrated band of grey substance, the edge of the grey substance in the dentate fissure, will be seen beneath it : this is the fascia dentata. Correctly speaking, it is placed external to the cavity of the descending cornu. The transverse fissure is of a horseshoe shape, extending from the end of the descending cornu on one side to the same point on the opposite side. Its horizontal portion (which extends from the commencement of the descending cornu on one side to the same point on the opposite side) is bounded, above, by the splenium, or rounded posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, and the fornix ; below% by the corpora quadrigemina, pineal gland, and the posterior extremity of the optic thalamus. Its lateral portions curve downwards, forwards, and inwards, and are bounded above by the crura cerebri and optic thalamus, below by the hippocampus major and the corpus fimbriatum of the fornix. Through this fissure the pia mater passes from the exterior of the brain into the ventricles, to form the velum mterpositum and the choroid plexuses. Where the pia mater projects into the lateral ventricle, beneath the edge of the fornix, it is connected with the lining membrane of these cavities so as to exclude all communication with the exterior of the brain. The septum lucidum (fig. 431, 6) forms the internal boundary of the lateral ventricles. It is a thin, semi-transparent septum, attached, above, to the under surface of the corpus callosum; below, to the anterior part of the fornix; and, in front of this, to the reflected portion of the corpus callosum. It is triangular in form, broad in front, and narrow behind, its surfaces looking towards the cavities of the ventricles. The septum consists of two laminte, separated by a narrow interval, the fifth ventricle. Fifth Ventricle.—The fifth ventricle was originally a part of the great longi- tudinal fissure, which has become shut off by the union of the hemispheres in the formation of the corpus callosum above, and the fornix below. Its walls are there- fore formed by the median wall of the hemispheres, and consist of an internal layer of grey matter, derived from the grey matter of the cortex and an external layer of white substance continuous with the white matter of the cerebral hemi- spheres. This is lined on its external surface by the ependyma of the lateral ventricles. The fifth ventricle is not lined by epithelium. In the foetus, and in some animals, this space communicates, below, with the third ventricle; but in the adult, it forms a separate cavity. In cases of serous eft'usion into the ventricles, the septum is often found softened and partially broken down. The fifth ventricle may be exposed by cutting through the septum and attached portion of the corpus callosum, with scissors : after its examination the corpus callosum should be cut across, towards its anterior part, and the two portions carefully dissected, the one forwards, the other backwards, when the fornix will be exposed. The fornix (figs. 425, 431) is a longitudinal lamella of white fibrous matter, situated beneath the corpus callosum, with which it is continuous behind, but separated in front by the septum lucidum. It may be described as consisting of two symmetrical halves, one for either hemisphere. These two portions are joined together in the middle line, where they form the body, but are separated from one another in front and behind; forming the anterior and jposterior crura. The body of the forn ix is triangular; narrow in front, broad behind. Its