EADIAL REGION 461 a flattened tendon, which passes beneath the annular ligament, is then lodged in the interspace between the outer head of the Flexor brevis pollicis and the Adductor obliquus pollicis, and, entering an osseo-aponeurotic canal similar to those for the other flexor tendons, is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—By its stoperficicU surface, with the Flexor sublimis digitorum, Flexor carpi radialis. Supinator longus, and radial vessels. By its dee2) surface, with the radius, interosseous membrane, and Pronator quadratus. By its ulnar border, with the Flexor profundus digitorum, from which it is separated by the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve. The Pronator quadratus is a small, flat, quadrilateral muscle, extending trans- versely across the front of the radius and ulna, above their carpal extremities. It arises from the oblique or pronator ridge on the lower part of the anterior surface of the shaft of the ulna ; from the lower fourth of the anterior surface, and the anterior border of the ulna ; and from a strong aponeurosis which covers the inner third of the muscle. The fibres pass horizontally outwards, to be inserted into the lower fourth of the anterior surface and anterior border of the shaft of the radius. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Flexor profundus digitorum, the Flexor longus pollicis. Flexor carpi radialis, and the radial vessels. By its dee]) surface, with the radius, ulna, and interosseous membrane. Nerves.—All the muscles of the superficial layer are supplied by the median nerve, excepting the Flexor carpi ulnaris, which is supplied by the ulnar. Of the deep layer, the Flexor profundus digitorum is supplied conjointly by the ulnar and by the median, through its branch, the anterior interosseous nerve, which also supplies the Flexor longus pollicis and Pronator quadratus. Actions.—These muscles act upon the forearm, the wrist, and hand. The Pronator radii teres helps to rotate the radius upon the ulna, rendering the hand prone : when the radius is fixed, it assists the other muscles in flexing the forearm. The Flexor carpi radialis is one of the flexors of the wrist; when acting alone, it flexes the wrist, inclining it to the radial side. It can also assist in pronating the forearm and hand, and, by continuing its action, to bend the elbow. The Flexor carpi ulnaris is one of the flexors of the wrist: when acting alone, it flexes the Avrist, inclining it to the ulnar side ; and by continuing to contract, to bend the elbows The Palmaris longus is a tensor of the palmar fascia. It also assists in flexing the wrist and elbow. The Flexor sublimis digitorum flexes first the middle, and then the proximal phalanx. It assists in flexing the wrist and elbow. The Flexor profundus digitorum is one of the flexors of the phalanges. After the Flexor sublimis has bent the second phalanx, the Flexor profundus flexes the terminal one ; but it cannot do so until after the contraction of the superficial muscle. It also assists in flexing the wrist. The Flexor longus pollicis is a flexor of the phalanges of the thumb. When the thumb is fixed, it also assists in flexing the wrist. The Pronator quadratus helps to rotate the radius upon the ulna, rendering the hand prone. Radial Region (fig. 308) Supinator longus. Extensor carpi radialis longior. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Dissection.—Divide the integument in the same manner as in the dissection of the anterior brachial region; and, after having examined the cutaneous vessels and nerves and deep fascia, remove all those structures. The muscles will then be exposed. The removal of the fascia will be considerably facilitated by detaching it from below up- wards. Great care should be taken to avoid cutting across the tendons of the muscles of the thumb, which cross obliquely the larger tendons running down the back of the radius. The Supinator longus is the most superficial muscle on the radial side of the forearm: it is fleshy for the upper two-thirds of its extent, tendinous below. It arises from the upper two-thirds of the external condyloid ridge of the humerus.