OF THE ABDOMEN 425 Superficial Muscles of the Abdomen The Muscles in this region are, the Obliquus Externus. Obliquus Internus. Pyramidali; Transversalis. Rectus. Fig. 291.—Dissection of abdomen. Dissection (fig. 291).—To dissect the abdominal muscles, make a vertical incision from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes ; a second incision from the umbilicus obliquely upwards and outwards to the outer surface of the chest, as high as the lower border of the fifth or sixth rib ; and a third, commencing midwa}^ between the umbilicus and pubes, transversely outwards to the anterior superior iliac spine, and along the crest of the ilium as far as its posterior third. Then reflect the three flaps included between these incisions from within outwards, in the lines of direction of the muscular fibres. If necessary, the abdominal muscles may be made tense by inflating the peritoneal cavity through the umbilicus. The Superficial fascia of the abdomen con- sists over the greater part of the abdominal wall of a single layer of fascia, which contains a variable amount of fat; but as this layer ap- 3 j) proaches the groin it is easily divisible into two section of[ layers, between which are found the superficial ^SSa V\ vessels and nerves and the superficial inguinal lymphatic glands. The superficial layer is thick, areolar in texture, containing adipose tissue in its meshes, the quantity of which varies in different subjects. Below it passes over Pou- part's ligament, and is continuous with the outer layer of the superficial fascia of the thigh. In the male this fascia is continued over the penis and outer surface of the Cord to the scrotum, where it helps to form the dartos. As it passes to the scrotum it changes its character, becoming thin, destitute of adipose tissue and of a pale reddish colour, and in the scrotum it acquires some involuntary muscular fibres. From the scrotum it may be traced backwards to be continuous with the superficial fascia of the perinasum. In the female, this fascia is continued into the labia majora. The deeper layer (fascia of Scarpa) is thinner and more membranous in character than the superficial layer. In the middle line, it is intimately adherent to the linea alba ; above, it is continuous with the superficial fascia over the rest of the trunk; below, it blends with the fascia lata of the thigh a little below Poupart's ligament ; and below and internally, it is continued over the penis and spermatic cord to the scrotum, where it helps to form the dartos. From the scrotum it may be traced backwards to be continuous with the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perinseum. In the female, it is continued into the labia majora. The External or Descending Oblique Muscle (fig. 292) is situated on the side and fore part of the abdomen ; being the largest and the most superficial of the three flat muscles in this region. It is broad, thin, and irregularly quadrilateral, its muscular portion occupying the side, its aponeu-rosis the anterior wall of the abdomen. It arises, by eight fleshy digitations, from the external surface and lower borders of the eight inferior ribs; these digitations are arranged in an oblique line running downwards and back^vards; the upper ones being attached close to the cartilages of the corresponding ribs ; the lowest, to the apex of the cartilage of the last rib ; the intermediate ones, to the ribs at some distance from