739 FOURTH NERVE. TROCHLEAR The sujperior division, the smaller, passes inwards over the optic nerve, and supplies the Superior rectus and Levator palpebrse. It occasionally communi- cates with the ganglionic branch of the nasal nerve. The inferior division, the larger, divides into three branches. One passes beneath the optic nerve to the Internal rectus; another, to the Inferior rectus ; and the third, the largest of the three, passes forwards between the Inferior and External recti to the Inferior oblique. From this latter a short, thick branch is given off to the lower part of the lenticular ganglion, which forms its inferior root. It also gives off one or two filaments to the Inferior rectus. All these branches enter the muscles on their ocular surface. Surgical Anatomy.—Paralysis of the third nerve may be the result of many causes: as cerebral disease ; conditions causing pressure on the cavernous sinus; periostitis of the bones entering into the formation of the sphenoidal fissure. It results, when complete, in (i) ptosis, or drooping of the upper eyelid, in consequence of the Levator palpebrae being paralysed ; (2) external strabismus, on account of the unopposed action of the External rectus muscle, which is not supplied by the third nerve, and is not therefore paralysed; (3) dilatation of the pupil, because the sphincter fibres of the iris are paralysed; (4) loss of power of accommodation, as the sphincter pupillae, the ciliary muscle, and the Internal rectus are paralysed; (5) slight prominence of the eyeball, from the compressing action of the Superior oblique, which is not paralysed. Occasionally paralysis may affect only a part of the nerve, that is to say, there may be, for example, a dilated and fixed pupil, with ptosis, but no other signs. Irritation of the nerve causes spasm of one or other of the muscles supplied by it; thus, there maybe internal strabismus from spasm of the Internal rectus; accommodation for near objects only from spasm of the ciliary muscle, or myosis, contraction of the pupil, from irritation of the sphincter of the pupil. Fourth Nerve (fig. 440) The Fourth or Trochlear Nerve (pathetic), the smallest of the cranial nerves, supplies the Superior oblique muscle. Its apparent origin, at the base of the brain, is on the outer side of the crus cerebri, just in front of the pons Varolii, but the fibres can be traced backwards behind the corpora quadrigemina to the valve of Vieussens, on the upper surface of which the two nerves decussate. Its deep origin may be traced to a nucleus in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius immediately below that of the third nerve, with which it is continuous. The nerve winds round the outer side of the crus cerebri, immediately above the pons Varolii, pierces the dura mater in the free border of the tentorium cerebelli, just behind, and external to, the posterior clinoid process, and passes forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, between the third nerve and the ophthalmic division of the fifth. It crosses the third nerve and enters the orbit, through the sphenoidal fissure. It now becomes the highest of all the nerves, lying at the inner extremity of the fissure internal to the frontal nerve. In the orbit it passes inwards, above the origin of the Levator palpebr^, and finally enters the orbital surface of the Superior oblique muscle. In the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, this nerve is not unfrequently blended with the ophthalmic division of the fifth. Branches of communication.—In the outer wall of the cavernous sinus it receives some filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. In the sphenoidal fissure it occasionally gives off a branch to assist in the formation of the lachrymal nerve. Branches of distri- bution.—It gives off a recurrent branch, which passes backwards between the layers of the tentorium, dividing into two or three filaments which may be traced as far back as the wall of the lateral sinus. Surgical Anatomy.—The fourth nerve when paralysed causes loss of function in the Superior oblique, so that the patient is unable to turn his e^^e downwards and outwards. Should the patient attempt to do this, the eye on the affected side is twisted inwards, producing diplopia or double vision. Accordingly, it is said that the first symptom of this disease which presents itself is giddiness when going down hill or in descending stairs, owing to the double vision induced by the patient looking at his steps whilst descending. 3 B 2