lOOI THE KENAL BLOOD-VESSELS Fig. 595.—Diagrammatic representa- tion of the blood-vessels in the sub- stance of the cortex of the kidney. The Renal Blood-vessels.—The kidney is plentifully supplied with blood by the renal artery, a large offset of the abdominal aorta. Previously to entering the kidney, each artery divides into four or five branches, which are distributed to its substance. At the hilum these branches lie between the renal vein and ureter, the vein being usually in front, the ureter behind. Each vessel gives off some small branches to the suprarenal capsules, the ureter, and the sur- rounding cellular tissue and muscles. Frequently there is a second renal artery, which is given off from the abdominal aorta at a lower level, and supplies the lower portion of the kidney. It is termed the inferior renal artery. The branches of the renal artery, whilst in the sinus, give off a few twigs for the nutrition of the surrounding tissues, and terminate in the arteries propricB renales, which enter the kidney proper in the columns of Bertini. Two of these pass to each pyramid of Malpighi, and run along its sides for its entire length, giving off as they advance the afferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies in the columns. Having arrived at the bases of the pyramids, they make a bend in their course, so as to lie between the bases of the pyramids and the cortical arches, where they break up into two distinct sets of branches devoted to the supply of the remaining portions of the kidney. The first set, the interlobular arteries (figs. 593, 594, b), are given off at right angles from the side of the arteriae propriae renales looking towards the cortical sub- stance, and passing directly outwards between the pyramids of Ferrein they reach the cap- sule, where they terminate in the capillary network of this part. In their outward course they give off lateral branches ; these are the afferent vessels for the Malpighian bodies (see page 997), and, having pierced the capsule, end in the Malpighian tufts. From each tuft the corresponding renal efferent arises, and, having made its egress from the capsule near to the point where the afferent vessel entered, anastomoses with other efferents from other tufts, and con- tributes to form a dense venous plexus around the adjacent urinary tubes (fig. 595). The second set of branches from the arterige propriae renales are for the supply of the medullary pyramids, which they enter at their bases; and, passing straight through their substance to their apices, terminate in the venous plexuses found in that situation. They are called the arteriolce recta (figs. 593, 594, f). The Renal Veins arise from three sources—the veins beneath the capsule, the plexuses around the tubuli contort! in the cortical arches, and the plexuses situated at the apices of the pyramids of Malpighi. The veins beneath the capsule are f stellate in arrangement, and are derived from the capillary network of the capsule, into which the terminal branches of the interlobular arteries break up. These join to form the vence interlobulares, which pass inwards bettueen the pyramids of Ferrein, receive branches from the plexuses around the tubuli contorti, and, having arrived at the bases of the Malpighian pyramids, join with the venae rectae, next to be described (figs. 593, 594, b). The Vence Bectce are branches from the plexuses at the apices of the medullary pyramids, formed by the terminations of the arteriole rectas. They pass outwards in a straight course between the tubes of the medullary structure, and joining, as above stated, the venas interlobulares, form the proper renal veins (figs. 593, 594?/)• These vessels, Vence VropricB Renales, accompany the arteries of the same name, . Region of the medullary ray. b. Region of the tortuous portion of the tubules, ai, Arteria in- terlobularis. ri. Vena interlobularis. va. Vas afferens. gl. Glomerulus, ve. Vas efferens. vc. Venous twig of the interlobularis.—(From Ludwig, in Strieker's 'Handbook.')