DOBSAL 789 The ulnar nerve is also liable to be injured in wounds of the forearm. When paralysed, there is loss of power of flexion in the ring and little fingers ; there is impaired power of ulnar flexion and adduction; there is inability to spread out the fingers from paralysis of the Interossei; and there is inability to adduct the thumb. Sensation is lost, or impaired, in the skin supplied by the nerve. In order to expose the nerve in the lower part of the forearm, an incision should be made along the outer border of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris, and the nerve will be found lying on the ulnar side of the ulnar artery. The miiscalo-spiral nerve is probably more frequently injured than any other nerve of the upper extremity. In consequence of its close relationship to the humerus, as it lies in the musculo-spiral groove, ifc is frequently torn or injured in fractures of this bone, or subsequently involved in the callus that may be thrown out around a fracture and thus pressed upon and its functions interfered with. It is also liable to be contused against the bone by kicks or blows, or to be divided by wounds of the arm. When paralysed, the hand is flexed at the wrist and lies flaccid. This is known as ' drop wrist.' The fingers are also flexed, and on an attempt being made to extend them, the last two phalanges only will be extended, through the action of the Interossei; the first phalanges remaining flexed. There is no power of extending the wrist. Supination is completely lost when the forearm is extended on the arm, but is possible to a certain extent if the forearm is flexed so as to allow of the action of the Biceps. The power of extension of the forearm is lost on account of paralysis of the Triceps. The best position in which to expose the nerve, for the purpose of stretching, is to make an incision along the inner border of the Supinator longus, just above the level of the elbow-joint. The skin and superficial structures are to be divided and the deep fascia exposed. The white line in this structure indicating the border of the muscle is to be defined, and the deep fascia divided in this line. By now raising the Supinator longus, the nerve will be found lying beneath it, on the Brachialis anticus. DOKSAL NERVES (fig. 463) The dorsal nerves are twelve in number on each side. The first appears between the first and second dorsal vertebrae, and the last between the last dorsal and first lumbar. The roots of the dorsal nerves are of small size, and vary but slightly from the second to the last. Both roots are very slender ; the posterior roots only slightly exceeding the anterior in thickness. They gradually increase in length from above downwards, and pass down in contact with the spinal cord for a distance equal to the height of, at least, two vertebrae, in the lower part of the dorsal region, before they emerge from the spinal canal. They then join in the intervertebral foramen, and, at their exit, divide into two primary divisions, a posterior (dorsal) and an anterior (intercostal). The first and last dorsal nerves are peculiar in some respects. Posterior Divisions of the Dorsal Nerves The posterior divisions of the dorsal nerves, which are smaller than the anterior, pass backwards between the transverse processes, and divide into internal and external branches. The internal branches of the six upper nerves pass inwards between the Semi- spinalis dorsi and Multifidus spinae muscles, which they supply ; and then, piercing the origins of the Rhomboidei and Trapezius muscles, become cutaneous by the side of the spinous processes and ramify in the integument. The internal branches of the six lower nerves are distributed to the Multifidus spinae, without giving off any cutaneous filaments. The external branches increase in size from above downwards. They pass through the Longissimus dorsi, to the cellular interval between it and the Ilio- costalis, and supply those muscles, as well as their continuations upwards to the head, and the Levatores costarum ; the five or six lower nerves also give off cutaneous filaments, which pierce the Serratus posticus inferior and Latissimus dorsi, in a line with the angles of the ribs, and then ramify in the integument. The cutaneous branches of the dorsal nerves are twelve in number. The six upper cutaneous nerves are derived from the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the dorsal nerves. They pierce the origins of the Rhomboidei and Trapezius muscles, and become cutaneous by the side of the spinous processes,