630 ARTERIES Abductor halliicis, and then between it and the Flexor brevis digitornm, both of which it supphes. At the base of the first metatarsal bone, where it has become much- diminished in size, it passes along the inner border of the great toe, inoscu- lating with its digital branch. The External Plantar Artery, much larger than the internal, passes obliquely outwards and forwards to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. It then turns obliquely inwards to the interval between the bases of the first and second meta- tarsal bones, where it anastomoses with the communicating branch from the dorsalis pedis artery, thus completing the plantar arch. As this artery passes outwards, it is first placed between the os calcis and Abductor hallucis, and then between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Flexor accessorius; and as it passes forwards to the base of the little toe, it lies more superficially between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Abductor minimi digiti, covered by the deep fascia and integument. The remaining portion of the vessel is deeply situated; it extends from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe to the back part of the first interosseous space, and forms the plantar arch; it is convex forwards, lies upon the Interossei muscles, opposite the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones, and is covered by the Adductor obliquus hallucis, the flexor tendons of the toes, and the Lumbricales. Surface Marking.—The course of the internal plantar artery is represented by a line drawn from the mid-point between the tip of the internal malleolus and the centre of the convexity of the heel to the middle of the under surface of the great toe. The external plantar by a line from the same point to within a finger's breadth of the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone. The plantar arch is indicated by a line drawn from this point ; i.e. a finger's breadth internal to the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone transversely across the foot to the back of the first interosseous space. Surgical Anatomy.—Wounds of the plantar arch are always serious, on account of the depth of the vessel and the important structures which must be interfered with in an attempt to ligature it. Delorme has shown that it may be ligatured from the dorsum of the foot in almost any part of its course by removing a portion of one of the three middle metatarsal bones. Branches.—The plantar arch, besides distributing numerous branches to the muscles, integument, and fascia in the sole, gives off the following branches :— Posterior Perforating. Digital—Anterior Perforating. The Posterior Perforating are three small branches, which ascend through the back part of the three outer interosseous spaces, between the heads of the Dorsal interossei muscles, and anastomose with the interosseous branches from the meta- tarsal artery. The Digital Branches are four in number, and supply the three outer toes and half the second toe. first passes outwards from the outer side of the plantar arch, and is distributed to the outer side of the little toe, passing in its course beneath the abductor and short flexor muscles. The second, third, and fourth run forwards along the interosseous spaces, and on arriving at the clefts between the toes divide into collateral branches, which supply the adjacent sides of the three outer toes and the outer side of the second. At the bifurcation of the toes, each digital artery sends upwards, through the fore part of the corresponding interosseous space, a small branch, which inosculates with the interosseous branches of the metatarsal artery. These are the anterior perforating branches. From the arrangement already described of the distribution of the vessels to the toes, it will be seen that both sides of the three outer toes, and the outer side of the second toe, are supplied by branches from the plantar arch ; both sides of the great toe, and the inner side of the second, are supplied by the communi- cating branch of the dorsalis pedis.