56 GENEEAL ANATOMY 111 man, Fig. 63.—Section of small lymphatic gland, half-diagrammatically given, with the course of the lymph. surface are given off a number of membranous septa or lamellae, consisting of connective tissue, with a small admixture of muscular fibre-cells; but in many of the lower animals composed almost entirely of involuntary muscular fibre. They pass inwards, radiating towards the centre of the gland, for a certain distance, that is to say, for about one-third or one-fourth of the space between the circum- ference and the centre of the gland. They thus divide the outer part of its interior into a number of oval compartments or alveoli (fig. 63) . This is the cortical por- tion of the gland. After having penetrated into the gland for some distance, these septa break up into a number of smaller trabeculse, which form flattened bands or cords, interlacing with each other in all directions, forming in the central part of the organ a number of inter- communicating spaces, also called alveoli. This is the medullary por- tion of the gland, and the spaces or alveoli in it not only freely com- municate with each other, but also with the alveoli of the cortical por- tion. In these alveoli or spaces (fig. 64) is contained the proper gland- substance or lymphoid tissue. The gland-pulp does not, howevei:, completely fill the alveolar spaces, but leaves, between its outer margin and the trabecule forming the alveoli, a channel or space of uniform width throughout. This is termed the Fig. 64.—Follicle from a lymphatic gland of the dog, in vertical section. <t. The envelope, b. Septa between the follicles or alveoli of the cortical part. c. System of septa of the medullary por- tion, clown to the hilum. d. The follicles, e. Lymph-tubes of the medullary mass. /. Different lymphatic streams which surround the follicles, and flow through the interstices of the medullary portion, g. Confluence of these passing through the efferent vessel, h, at the hilum. Fig. 65.—From the medullary substance of an inguinal gland of the ox. (After His.) a. Reticular sustentacular substance of the more external jiortiou, b, of the more internal, and c, of the most external and most finely webbed part on the surface of the follicle, d. Origin of a large lymph-tube. e. Of a smaller one. /. Capsule, g. Septa, h. Vas afferens. i. Investing space of the follicle, Avith its retinacula. k. One of the divisions of the septa. 1 I. Attachment of the lymph-tubes to the septa. , Lymph-tube, with its compUcated system of vessels. b. Retinacula stretched between the tube and the septa, c. Portion of another lymph- tube, d. Septa. lymjjJi-path or lymj^h-sinus (fig. 66). Running across it are a number of trabecul^e of retiform connective tissue, the fibres of which are, for the most part, covered by