THE SALIVARY GLANDS 887 half an ounce to an ounce. It lies upon the side of the face, immediately below and in front of the external ear. It is limited above by the zygoma ; below, by the angle of the jaw, and by a line drawn between it and the mastoid process: anteriorly, it extends to a variable extent over the Masseter muscle ; posteriorly, it is bounded by the external meatus, the mastoid process, and the Sterno-mastoid and Digastric muscles, slightly overlapping the latter. Its anterior surface is grooved to embrace the posterior margin of the ramus of the lower jaw, and advances forwards beneath the ramus, between the two Pterygoid muscles and in front of the ramus over the Masseter muscle. Its outer surface, slightly lobulated, is covered by the integument and parotid fascia, and has one or two lymphatic glands resting on it. Its inner surface extends deeply into the neck, by means of two large processes, one of which dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the mastoid process and the Sterno-mastoid muscle ; the other is situated in front of the styloid process, and passes into the back part of the glenoid Fig. 517.—The salivary glands. fossa, behind the articulation of the lower jaw. The structures passing through the parotid gland are, the external carotid artery, giving off its three terminal branches: the posterior auricular artery emerges from the gland behind ; the temporal artery above; the transverse facial, a branch of the temporal, in front ; and the internal maxillary winds through it as it passes inwards, behind the neck of the jaw. Superficial to the external carotid is the trunk formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary veins ; a branch, connecting this trunk with the internal jugular, also passes through the gland. It is also traversed by the facial nerve and its branches, which emerge at its anterior border; branches of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland to join the facial, and the auriculo- temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve emerges from the upper part of the gland. The internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein lie close to its deep surface. The duct of the parotid gland (Stenson's) is about two inches and a half in length. It commences by numerous branches from the anterior part of the gland,