ORGANS OF DIGESTION The vessels of the rectum are arranged, as mentioned above, longitudinallj^ and are contamed in the loose cellular tissue between the mucous and muscular coats, and receive no support from surrounding tissues, and this favours varicosity-. Moreover, the blood from these vessels is returned into the general circulation through two distinct channels, part through the systemic system and part through the portal system ; so that they may be said to be placed between the portal and systemic circulations, and thus predisposed to congestion and consequent dilatation. In addition to this there are no valves in the superior hsemor- rhoidal veins, and the vessels of the rectum are placed in a dependent position, and are liable to be pressed upon and obstructed by hardened fseces. The anatomical arrangement, therefore, of the haemorrhoidal vessels explains the great tendency to the occurrence of piles. Again, the presence of the Sphincter ani is of surgical importance, since it is the constant contraction of this muscle which prevents an ischio-rectal abscess from healing, and causes it to become a fistula. Also the reflex contraction of this muscle is the cause of the severe pain complained of in fissure of the anus. The relations of the peritoneum to the rectum are of importance in connection with the operation of removal of the lower end of the rectum for malignant disease. This membrane gradually leaves the rectum as it descends into the pelvis; first leaving its posterior surface, then the sides, and then the anterior surface, to become reflected, in the male on to the posterior wall of the bladder, forming the recto-vesical pouch, and in the female on to the posterior wall of the vagina, forming Douglas's pouch. The recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum extends to within three and a half or four inches from the anus, so that it is not safe to remove more than three inches of the entire circumference of the bowel for fear of the risk of opening the perito- neum. When, however, the disease is confined to the posterior surface of the rectum, or extends farther in this direction, a greater amount of the posterior wall of the gut may be removed, as the peritoneum does not extend on this surface to a lower level than five inches from the margin of the anus. The recto-vaginal or Douglas's pouch in the female extends somewhat lower than the recto-vesical pouch of the male, and therefore it is necessary to remove a less length of the tube in this sex.* Upon introducing the finger into the rectum, the membranous portion of the urethra can be felt, if an instrument has been introduced into the bladder, exactly in the middle line ; behind this the prostate gland can be recognised by its shape and hardness and any enlargement detected ; behind the prostate the fluctuating wall of the bla.dder when full can be felt, and if thought desirable it can be tapped in this situation; on either side and behind the prostate the vesiculae seminales can be readily felt, especially if enlarged by tubercular disease. Behind, the coccyx is to be felt, and on the mucous membrane one or two of Houston's folds. The ischio-rectal fossae can be explored on either side, with a view to ascertaining the presence of deep-seated collections of pus. Finally, it will be noted that the finger is firmly gripped by the sphincter for about an inch up the bowel. By gradual dilatation of the sphmcter, the whole hand can be introduced into the rectum so as to reach the descending colon. This method of exploration is rarely, however, required for diagnostic purposes. The colon frequently requires opening in cases of intestinal obstruction ; the descending colon being usually the portion of bowel selected for this operation. The operation of colotomy may be performed either without opening the peritoneum by an incision in the loin (lumbar colotomy), or by an opening through the peritoneum (inguinal colotomy). Lumbar colotomy is performed by placing the patient on the side opposite to the one to be operated on, with a firm pillow under the loin. A line is then drawn from the anterior superior to the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and the mid-point of this line (Heath) or half an inch behind the mid-point (AUingham) is taken, and a line di-awn vertically upwards from it to the last rib. This line represents, with sufticient correctness, the position of the normal colon. An oblique incision four inches in length is now made midway between the last rib and the crest of the ilium, so that its centre bisects the vertical line, and the following parts successively divided: (i) The skin, superficial fascia, with cutaneous vessels and nerves and deep fascia. (2) The posterior fibres of the External oblique and anterior fibres of the Latissimus dorsi. (3) The Internal oblique. (4) The lumbar fascia and the external border of the Quadratus lumborum. The edges of the wound are now to be held apart with retractors, and the transversalis fascia will be exposed. This is to be opened with care, commencing at the posterior angle of the incision. If the bowel is distended, it will bulge into the wound, and no difficulty will be found in dealing with it. If, however, the gut is empty this bulging will not take place, and the colon will have to be sought for. The guides to it are the lower end of the kidney which will be plainly felt, and the outer edge of the Quadratus lumborum. The bowel having been found, is to be drawn well up into the wound, and it may be opened at once and the margins of tlie opening stitched to the skin at the edge of the wound ; or, if the case is not an urgent one, it may be retained in this position by two harelip pins passed through the muscular coat, the rest of the wound closed, and the bowel opened in three or four days, when adhesion of the bowel to the edges of the wound has taken place. Inguinal colotomy is preferred by many surgeons in those cases where there is no urgent AUingham says one inch less in the female.