BASE OF THE SKULL i8t opening for the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. On the outer side of each olfactory groove are the internal openings of the anterior and 'posterior ethmoidal foramina ; the former, situated about the middle of the outer margin of the olfactory groove, transmits the anterior ethmoidal vessels and the nasal nerve, which latter runs in a depression along the surface of the ethmoid, to the slit-like opening above mentioned ; whilst the posterior ethmoidal foramen opens at the back part of this margin under cover of the projecting lamina of the sphenoid, and transmits the posterior ethmoidal vessels. Further back in the middle line is the ethmoidal spine, bounded behind by an elevated ridge, sepa- rating two longitudinal grooves which support the olfactory tracts. Behind this is a transverse sharp ridge, running outwards on either side to the anterior margin of the optic foramen, and separating the anterior from the middle fossa of the base of the skull. The anterior fossa presents, laterally, eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the brain, and grooves for the lodgment of the anterior meningeal arteries. The Middle Fossa, somewhat deeper than the preceding, is narrow in the middle line, but becomes wider at the side of the skull. It is bounded in front by the posterior margin of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, the anterior clinoid process, and the ridge forniing the anterior margin of the optic groove; behind, by the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal, and the dorsum ephippii;; externally by the squamous portion of the temporal, anterior inferior angle of the - parietal bone, and greater wing of the sphenoid. It is traversed by four sutures, ' the squamo-parietal, spheno-parietal, squamo-sphenoidal, and petro-sphenoidal. In the middle line, from before backwards, is the optic groove, which supports the optic commissure, ■ and terminates on each side in the optic foramen, for the passage of the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery ; behind the optic groove is the olivary process, and laterally the anterior clinoid processes, to which are attached processes of the tentorium cerebelli. Further back is the sella turcica, a deep depression, which lodges the pituitary gland, bounded in front by a small eminence on either side, the middle clinoid process, and behind by a broad square plate of bone, the dorsum ephippii, surmounted at each superior angle by a tubercle, the posterior clinoid process ; beneath the latter process is a notch, for the sixth nerve. On each side of the sella turcica is the cavernous groove: it is broad, shallow, and curved somewhat like the italic letter /; it commences behind at the foramen lacerum medium, and terminates on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and presents along its outer margin a ridge of bone. This groove lodges the cavernous sinus, the internal carotid artery, and the nerves of the orbit. The sides of the middle fossa are of considerable depth ; they present eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the brain, and grooves for the branches of the middle meningeal artery ; the latter commence on the outer side of the foramen spinosum, and consist of two large branches, an anterior and a posterior; the former passing upwards and forwards to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, the latter passing upwards and backwards. The following foramina may also be seen from before backwards. Most anteriorly is the foramen lacerum anterius, or sphenoidal fissure, formed above by the lesser wing of the sphenoid ; below, by the greater wing ; internally, by the body of the sphenoid ; and sometimes completed externally by the orbital plate of the frontal bone. It transmits the third, the fourth, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, the sixth nerve, some filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, the orbital branch of the middle meningeal artery, a recurrent branch from the lachrymal artery to the dura mater, and the ophthalmic vein. Behind the inner extremity of the sphenoidal fissure is the foramen rotundum, for the passage of the second division of the fifth or superior maxillary nerve; still more posteriorly is seen a small orifice, the foramen Vesalii, an opening situated between the foramen rotundum and ovale, a little internal to both : it varies in size m different individuals, and is often absent; when present, it transmits a small vein. It opens below into the pterygoid fossa, just at the outer side of the scaphoid