607 SCIATIC the internal pudic as it passes above the tuberosity of the ischium. Crossing the ischio-rectal fossa, they are distributed to the muscles and integument of the anal region. The superficial perineal artery supplies the scrotum and muscles and integu- ment of the peringeum. It arises from the internal pudic, in front of the preceding branches, and turns upwards, crossing either over or under the Transversus perinaei muscle, and runs forwards, parallel to the pubic arch, in the interspace between the Accelerator urinse and Erector penis muscles, both of which it supplies, and is finally distributed to the skin and dartos of the scrotum. In its passage through the perineum, it lies beneath the superficial perineal fascia. The transverse perineal is a small branch which arises either from the internal pudic, or from the superficial perineal artery as it crosses the Transversus perinaei muscle. It runs transversely inwards along the cutaneous surface of the Transversus perin^i muscle, which it supplies, as well as the structures between the anus and bulb of the urethra, and anastomoses with the one of the opposite side. The artery of the bulb is a large but very short vessel, which arises from the internal pudic between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, and, passing nearly transversely inwards, pierces the bulb of the urethra, in which it ramifies. It gives off a small branch which descends to supply Cowper's gland. Surgical Anatomy.—This artery is of considerable importance in a surgical point of view, as it is in danger of being wounded in the lateral operation of lithotomy, an accident usually attended in the adult with alarming haemorrhage. The vessel is sometimes verv small, occasionally wanting, or even double. It sometimes arises from the internal pudic earlier than usual, and crosses the perinseum to reach the back part of the bulb. In such a case the vessel could hardly fail to be wounded in the performance of the lateral operation of lithotomy. If, on the contrary, it should arise from an accessory pudic, it lies more forward than usual, and is out of danger in the operation. The artery of the corpus cavernosum, one of the terminal branches of the internal pudic, arises from that vessel while it is situated between the crus penis and the ramus of the os pubis ; piercing the crus penis obliquely, it runs forwards in the centre of the corpus cavernosum, to which its branches are distributed. The dorsal artery of the penis ascends between the crus and pubic symphysis, and, piercing the suspensory ligament, runs forwards on the dorsum of the penis to the glans, where it divides into two branches, which supply the glans and pre- puce. On the dorsum of the penis, it lies immediately beneath the integument, parallel with the dorsal vein and the corresponding artery of the opposite side. It supplies the integument and fibrous sheath of the corpus cavernosum, sending branches through the sheath to anastomose with the preceding vessel. The Internal Pudic Artery in the Female is smaller than in the male. Its origin and course are similar, and there is considerable analogy in the distri- bution of its branches. The superficial artery supplies the labia pudendi; the artery of the bulb supplies the bulbi vestibuli and the erectile tissue of the vagina; the artery of the corpus cavernosum supplies the cavernous body of the clitoris; and the arteria dorsalis clitoridis supplies the dorsum of that organ, and terminates in the glans and in the membranous fold corresponding to the prepuce of the male. The Sciatic Artery (fig. 375), the larger of the two terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, is distributed to the muscles at the back of the pelvis. It passes down to the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, behind the internal pudic artery, resting on the sacral plexus of nerves and Pyriformis muscle, and escapes from the pelvis through this foramen between the Pyriformis and Coccygeus. It then descends in the interval between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium, accompanied by the sciatic nerves, and covered by the Gluteus maximus, and is continued down the back of the thigh supplying the skin, and anastomosing with branches of the perforating arteries. Within the pelvis, it distributes branches to the Pyriformis, Coccygeus, and Levator ani muscles ; some hsemorrhoidal branches, which supply the rectum, and