SURGICAL ANATOMY 1073 be made in it without dividing its substance completely across, is obliquely back- wards and outwards. This is the direction in which the incision is made in it in the lateral operation of lithotomy. Behind the prostate is the posterior surface of the neck and base of the bladder : a small triangular portion of the bladder being seen, bounded, in front, by the prostate gland ; behind, by the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum ; on each side, by the vesicula seminalis and the vas deferens. It is separated from direct contact with the rectum by the recto-vesical fascia. The relation of this portion of the bladder to the rectum is of extreme interest to the surgeon. In cases of retention of urine this portion of the organ is found projecting into the rectum, between three and four inches from the margin of the anus, and may be easily perforated, without injury to any important parts ; this portion of the bladder is, consequently, occasionally selected for the performance of the operation of tapping the bladder. Surgical Anatomy.—The student should consider the position of the various parts in reference to the lateral operation of lithotomy. This operation is performed on the left side of the perinaeum, as it is most convenient for the right hand of the operation. A Fig. 635.—A transverse section of the pelvis, showing the pelvic fascia from behind. ischium staff having been introduced into the bladder, the first incision is commenced midway between the anus and the back of the scrotum (i.e. in an ordinary adult perinaeum, about an inch and a half in front of the. anus), a little on the left side of the raphe, and carried obliquely backwards and outwards to midway between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium. The incision divides the integument and superficial fascia, the inferior hsemor- rhoidal vessels and nerves, and the superficial and transverse perineal vessels. If the forefinger of the left hand is thrust upwards and forwards into the wound, pressing at the same time the rectum inwards and backwards, the staff may be felt in the membranous portion of the urethra. The finger is fixed upon the staff, and the structures covering it are divided with the point of the knife, which must be directed along the groove towards the bladder, the edge of the knife being turned outwards and backwards, dividing in its course the membranous portion of the urethra, and part of the left lobe of the prostate gland, to the extent of about an inch. The knife is then withdrawn, and the forefinger of the left hand passed alon^ the staff into the bladder. The position of the stone having been ascertained, the staff is to be withdrawn, and the forceps is introduced over the finger into the bladder. If the stone is very large, the opposite side of the prostate may be notched before the forceps is introduced: the linger is now withdrawn, and the blades of the forceps opened and made to grasp the stone, which must be extracted by slow and cautious undulating movements. 3Z