LIP GEE VIC AL VEKTEBE.E NT-i^^-^ "5 'Y cylinder behind the bodies for the protection of the spinal cord. The different vertebrae are connected together by means of the articular processes and the inter- vertebral cartilages ; while the transverse and spinous processes serve as levers for the attachment of muscles which move the different parts of the spine. Lastly, between each pair of vertebrae apertures exist through which the spinal nerves pass from the cord. Each of these constituent parts must now be separately examined. The Body or centrum is the largest and most solid part of a vertebra. Above and below, it is flattened ; its upper and lower surfaces are rough, for the attachment of the intervertebral fibro-cartilages, and present a rim around their circumference. In front, it is convex from side to side, concave from above downwards. Behind, it is flat from above downwards and slightly concave from side to side. Its anterior surface is perforated by a few small apertures, for the passage of nutrient vessels ; whilst on the posterior surface is a single large, irregular aperture, or occasionally more than one, for the exit of veins from the body of the vertebra—the vencB basis vertehrm. The Pedicles project backwards, one on each side, from the upper part of the body of the vertebra, at the line of junction of its posterior and lateral surfaces. The concavities above and below the pedicles are the intervertebral notches ; they are four in number, two on each side, the inferior ones being generally the deeper. When the vertebrae are articulated, the notches of each contiguous pair of bones form the intervertebral foramina, which communicate with the spinal canal and transmit the spinal nerves and blood-vessels. The Laminae are two broad plates of bone which complete the vertebral arch behind, enclosing a foramen, the spijial foramen, which serves for the protection of the spinal cord ; they are connected to the body by means of the pedicles. Their upper and lower borders are rough, for the attachment of the ligamenta siibflava. The Spinous Process projects backwards from the junction of the two laminae, and serves for the attachment of muscles. The Articular Processes, four in number, two on each side, spring from the junction of the pedicles with the laminae. The two superior project upwards, their articular surfaces being directed more or less backwards ; the two inferior project downwards, their articular surfaces looking more or less forwards.* The Transverse Processes, two in number, project one at each side from the point where the articular processes join the pedicle. They also serve for the attachment of muscles. Character of the Cervical Vertebra (fig. 109) The Cervical Vertebrae are smaller than those in any other region of the spine, and may readily be distinguished by the foramen in the transverse process, which does not exist in the transverse process of either the dorsal or lumbar vertebras. The Body is small, comparatively dense, and broader from side to side than from before backwards. The anterior and posterior surfaces are flattened and of equal depth ; the former is placed on a lower level than the latter, and its inferior border is prolonged downwards, so as to overlap the upper and fore part of the vertebra below. Its upper surface is concave transversely, and presents a projecting lip on each side: its lower surface is convex from side to side, concave from before backwards, and presents laterally a shallow concavity, which receives the corre- sponding projecting lip of the adjacent vertebra. The pedicles are directed obliquely outwards, and the superior intervertebral notches are deeper, but narrower, than the inferior. The lamince are narrow, long, thinner above than below, and overlap each other, enclosing the spinal foramen, which is very large, and of a triangular form. The spinous processes are short, and bifid at the extremity to afford greater extent of surface for the attachment of muscles, the * It may, perhaps, be as well to remind the reader that the direction of a sm^face is determined by that of a line drawn at right angles to it. I 2