514 SURFACE FORM OF inserted into the bases of the first phalanges, and into the aponeurosis of the common extensor tendon. In the angular interval left between the heads of each muscle at its posterior extremity the perforating arteries pass to the dorsum of the foot; except in the First interosseous muscle, where the interval allows the passage of the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis artery. The First dorsal inter- osseous muscle is inserted into the inner side of the second toe ; the other three are inserted into the outer sides of the second, third, and fourth toes. The Plantar interossei, three in number, lie beneath, rather than between, the metatarsal bones. They are single muscles, and are each connected with but one metatarsal bone. They arise from the base and inner sides of the shaft of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and are inserted into the inner sides of the bases of the first phalanges of the same toes, and into the aponeurosis of the common extensor tendon. Nerves.—The Flexor brevis digitorum, the Flexor brevis and Abductor hallucis, and the two inner Lumbricales are supplied by the internal plantar nerve. All the other muscles in the sole of the foot by the external plantar. The First and Second dorsal interossei muscles receive extra filaments from the ganglionic enlargement of the anterior tibial nerve on the dorsum of the foot. Actions.—All the muscles of the foot act upon the toes, and for purposes of description as regards their action may be grouped as Abductors, Adductors, Flexors or Extensors. The Abductors are the Dorsal interossei, the Abductor hallucis, and the Abductor minimi digiti. The Dorsal interossei are abductors from an imaginary line passing through the axis of the second toe, so that the first muscle draws the second toe inwards, towards the great toe; the second muscle draws the same toe outwards ; the third draws the third toe, and the fourth draws the fourth toe in the same direction. Like the interossei in the hand, they also assist in flexing the proximal phalanx and extending the two terminal phalanges. The Abductor hallucis abducts the great toe from the others and also flexes the proximal phalanx of this toe. And in the same way the action of the Abductor minimi digiti is twofold, as an abductor of this toe from the others, and also as a flexor of the proximal phalanx. The Adductors are the Plantar interossei, the Adductor obliquus hallucis, and the Adductor transversus hallucis. The plantar interosseous muscles adduct the third, fourth, and fifth toes, towards the imaginary line passing through the second toe, and by means of their insertion into the aponeurosis of the extensor tendon they assist in flexing the proximal phalanx and extending the two terminal phalanges. The Adductor obliquus hallucis is chiefly concerned in adducting the great toe towards the second one, but also assists in flexing this toe. The Adductor transversus hallucis approximates all the toes and thus increases the curve of the transverse arch of the metatarsus. The Flexors are the Flexor brevis digitorum, the Flexor accessorius, the Flexor brevis hallucis, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the Lumbricales. The Flexor brevis digitorum flexes the second phalanges upon the first, and continuing its action flexes the first phalanges also and brings the toes together. The Flexor accessorius assists the Long flexor of the toes and converts the obhque pull of the tendons of that muscle into a direct backward pull upon the toes. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti flexes the little toe and draws its metatarsal bone downwards and inwards. The Lumbricales, like the corresponding muscles in the hand, assist in flexing the proximal phalanx, and by their insertion into the long extensor tendon aid that muscle in straightening the two terminal phalanges. The only muscle in the Extensor group is the Extensor brevis digitorum. It extends the first phalanx of the great toe and assists the long extensor in extending the next three toes, and at the same time gives to the toes an outward direction when they are extended. Surface Form.—Of the muscles of the thigh, those of the iliac region have no influence on surface form, while those of the anterior femoral region, being to a great extent superficial, largely contribute to the surface form of this part of the body. The Tensor vagincB femoris produces a broad elevation immediately below the anterior portion of the