OF THE ABDOMEN F F 2 435 fascia transversalis, joining externally to the centre of Poupart's ligament, and arching across the front of the crirral sheath to be inserted by a broad attachment into the pectineal line, behind the conjoined tendons. In some subjects this structure is not very prominently marked, and not unfrequently it is altogether wanting. Surface Form.—The only two muscles of this group which have any considerable influ- ence on surface form are the External oblique and Kectus muscles of tlie abdomen. With regard to the External oblique, the upper digitations of its origin from the ribs are well marked, intermingled with the serrations of the Serratus magnus ; the lower digitations are not visible, being covered by the thick border of the Latissimus dorsi. Its attachment to the crest of the ilium, in conjunction with the Internal oblique, forms a thick oblique roll, which determines the iliac furrow. Sometimes on the front of the lateral region of the abdomen an undulating outline marks the spot where the muscular fibres terminate and the aponeurosis commences. The outer border of the Eectus is defined by the liiiea semi- lunaris, which may be exactly defined by putting the muscle into action. It corresponds with a curved line, with its convexity outwards, drawn from the lowest part of the cartilage of the seventh rib to the spine of the os pubis, so that the centre of the line, at or near the umbilicus, is three inches from the median line. The inner border of the Kectus corresponds to the Unea alba, marked on the surface of the body by a groove, the abdominal furroiu, which extends from the infrasternal fossa to, or to a little below, the umbilicus, where it gradually becomes lost. The surface of the Eectus presents three transverse furrows, the linece tra7isversce. The upper two of these, one opposite or a little below the tip of the ensiform cartilage, and another, midway between this point and the umbilicus, are usually well marked; the third, opposite the umbilicus, is not so distinct. The umbilicus, situated in the linea alba, varies very much in position as regards its height. It is always situated above a zone drawn round the body opposite the highest point of the crest of the ilium, generally being about three-quarters of an inch to an inch above this line. It generally corresponds, therefore, to the fibro-cartilage between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. Deep Muscles of the Abdomen Psoas parvus. Iliacus. Psoas magnus. Quadratus lumborum. The Psoas magnus, the Psoas parvus, and the Iliacus muscles, with the fascia covering them, will be described with the Muscles of the Lower Extremity (see page 482). The fascia covering the Q,uadratus lumborum.—This is the most internal of the two layers of fascia Avhich are given oif from the anterior or deep surface of the lumbar fascia. It is a thin layer of fascia which, passing over the anterior surface of the Quadratus lumborum, is attached, internally, to the anterior surface of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra ; below, to the ilio-lumbar ligament ; and above, to the apex and lower border of the last rib. The portion of this fascia which extends from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the apex and lower border of the last rib, constitutes the ligamentum arcuatum externum. The Quadratus lumborum (fig. 288, page 411) is situated in the lumbar region. It is irregularly quadrilateral in shape, and broader below than above. It arises by aponeurotic fibres from the ilio-lumbar ligament and the adjacent portion of the crest of the ihiim for about two inches, and is inserted into the lower border of the last rib for about half its length and by four small tendons, into the apices of the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar vertebrae. Occasionally a second portion of this muscle is found situated in front of the preceding. It arises from the upper borders of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and is inserted into the lower margin of the last rib. The Quadratus lumborum is contained in a sheath formed by the anterior and middle lamella of the lumbar fasciae. Relations.—Its anterior surface (or rather the fascia which covers its anterior surface) is in relation with the colon, the kidney, the Psoas muscle, and the Diaphragm. Its posterior surface is in relation with the middle lamella of the lumbar fascia, Avhich separates it from the Erector spinte. The Quadratus lumborum extends, however, beyond the outer border of the Erector spinae. Nerve-supply.—The anterior branches of the lumbar nerves.