THE LIVER 933 the Diaphragm to the extremities of the posterior surface of the organ. The left is the longer of the two, and lies in front of the oesophageal opening in the Diaphragm. The coronary ligament connects the posterior surface of the liver to the Dia- phragm. It is formed by the reflection of the peritoneum from the Diaphragm on to the upper and lower margins of the posterior surface of the organ. The coronary ligament consists of two layers, which are continuous on each side with the lateral ligaments; and, in front, with the longitudinal ligament. Between the layers, a large oval space is left uncovered by peritoneum, and is connected to the Diaphragm by firm areolar tissue. The round ligament (fig. 546) is a fibrous cord resulting from the obliteration of the umbilical vein. It ascends from the umbilicus, in the anterior free margin of the longitudinal ligament, to the notch in the anterior border of the liver, from which it may be traced along the longitudinal fissure on the under surface of the liver, as far back as the inferior vena cava. Fissures (fig. 547).—Five fissures are seen upon the under and posterior surfaces of the liver, which serve to divide it into five lobes. They are, the longitudinal fissure, the fissure of the ductus venosus, the transverse fissure, the fissure for the gall-bladder, and the fissure for the inferior vena cava. They are arranged in the form of the letter A ; the apex of the letter corresponding to the posterior surface of the liver, its base to the anterior free border. The connecting bar would represent the transverse fissure; the two converging limbs posterior to this would represent, the left one, the fissure for the ductus venosus ; the right one, the fissure for the inferior vena cava; the two diverging limbs anterior to the cross-bar would represent the umbilical fissure {left), and the fissure for the gall-bladder [right). The longitudinal fi,sstire is a deep groove, which extends from the notch on the anterior margin of the liver to the posterior surface of the organ. It separates the right and left lobes ; the transverse fissure joins it, at right angles, about one- third from its posterior extremity, and divides it into two parts. The anterior half is called the umbilical fissure ; it is deeper than the posterior part, and lodges the umbilical vein in the foetus, or its remains (the round ligament) in the adult. This fissure is often partiall}- bridged over by a prolongation of the hepatic substance, the 'pons hepatis. The fissure of the ductus venosus is the back part of the longitudinal fissure, and is situated partly on the posterior surface of the liver; it is shorter and shallowei than the anterior portion. It lodges in the foetus the ductus venosus , and in the adult a slender fibrous cord, the obliterated remains of that vessel. The transverse or portal fissure is a short but deep fissure, about two inches in length, extending transversely across the under surface of the right lobe, nearer to its posterior surface than its anterior border. It joins, nearly at right angles, with the longitudinal fissure. By the older anatomists this fissure was considered the gateway (porta) of the liver; hence the large vein which enters at this point was called the portal vein. Besides this vein, the fissure transmits the hepatic artery and nerves, and the hepatic duct and lymphatics. At their entrance into the fissure, the hepatic duct lies in front and to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the portal vein behind and between the duct and artery. The fissure for the gall-bladder { fossa cystis fellece) is a shallow, oblong fossa, placed on the under surface of the right lobe, parallel with the longitudinal fissure. It extends from the anterior free margin of the liver, which is occasionally notched for its reception, to near the right extremity of the transverse fissure. The fissure for the inferior vena cava is a short, deep fissure, occasionally a complete canal, which extends obliquely upwards from a little behind the right extremity of the transverse fissure on to the posterior surface of the liver, where it joins the fissure for the ductus venosus. On slitting open the inferior vena cava which is contained in it, a deep fossa is seen, at the bottom of which the hepatic veins communicate with this vessel. This fissure is separated from the