I028 MALE OEGANS OF GENERATION with the lower part of the canal of the epididymis, or with the commencement of the vas deferens. It extends up into the cord for about two or three inches, where it terminates by a blind extremity, which is occasionally bifurcated. Its length varies from an inch and a half to fourteen inches, and sometimes it becomes dilated towards its extremity; more commonly it retains the same diameter throughout. Its structure is similar to that of the vas deferens. Occasionally it is found unconnected with the epididymis. Surgical Anatomy.—The testicle frequently requires removal for malignant disease ; in tuberculous disease, to prevent systemic infection ; in cystic disease ; in cases of large hernia testis, and in some instances of incompletely descended or misplaced testicle. The operation is a comparatively simple one. An incision is made from the external ring to the bottom of the scrotum, into the tunica vaginalis. The coverings are shelled off the organ, and the mesorchium, stretching between the back of the testicle and the scrotum, divided. The cord is then isolated, and an aneurism needle, armed with a double ligatiu^e, passed under it, as high as is thought necessary, and the cord tied in two places, and divided between the ligatures. Sometimes, in cases of malignant disease, it is desirable to open the inguinal canal and tie the cord as near the internal abdominal ring as possible. Vesicul^ Seminales The Seminal Vesicles are two lobulated membranous pouches, placed between the base of the bladder and the rectum, serving as reservoirs for the semen, and secreting a fluid to be added to the secretion of the testicles. Each sac is somewhat pyramidal in form, the broad end being directed backwards, and the narrow end forwards towards the prostate. They measure about two and a half inches in length, about five lines in breadth, and two or three lines in thickness. They vary, however, in size, not only in different individuals, but also in the same individual on the two sides. Their u^jper surface is in contact with the base of the bladder, extending from near the termination of the ureters to the base of the prostate gland. Their under surface rests upon the rectum, from which they are separated by the recto-vesical fascia. Their ^os^er/or extremities diverge from each other. Theiv anterior extremities are pointed, and converge towards the base of the prostate gland, where each joins with the corresponding vas deferens to form the ejaculatory duct. Along the inner margin of each vesicula runs the enlarged and convoluted vas deferens. The inner border of the vesiculae, and the corresponding vas deferens, form the lateral boundaries of a triangular space, limited behind by the recto-vesical peritoneal Fig. 6io.—Base of the bladder, with the vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales. Bight ejaculatory duct-