6i4 ARTERIES Plan of Relations of the Common Femoral Aeteey In front. Skin and superficial fascia. Superficial inguinal glands. Iliac portion of fascia lata. Prolongation of transversalis fascia. Crural branch of genito-crural nerve. Superficial circumflex iliac vein. Superficial epigastric vein. Inner side. Femoral vein. Ou ter side. Anterior crural nerve. Behind. Prolongation of fascia covering Iliacus muscle. Pubic portion of fascia lata. Nerve to Pectineus. Psoas muscle. Pectineus muscle. Capsule of hip-joint. The superficial femoral artery is only superficial where it lies in Scarpa's triangle. Here it is covered by the skin, superficial and deep fascia, and crossed by the internal cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve. In Hunter's canal it is more deeply seated, being covered by the integument, the superficial and deep fascia, the Sartorius and aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal. The internal saphenous nerve crosses the artery from without inwards. Behind, the artery lies at its upper part on the femoral vein and the profunda artery and vein, which separate it from the Pectineus muscle, and lower down on the Adductor longus and Adductor magnus muscles. To the outer side is the long saphenous nerve and the nerve to the Vastus internus; the Vastus internus muscle and, at its lower part, the femoral vein. To the inner side is the Adductor longus above, and the Adductor magnus and Sartorius below. Plan of Relations of the Superficial Femoral Artery In f ront. Skin, superficial and deep fasciae. Internal cutaneous nerve. Sartorius. Aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal. Internal saphenous nerve. Inner side. Adductor longus. Adductor magnus. Sartorius. Outer side. Long saphenous nerve. Nerve to vastus internus. Vastus internus. Femoral vein (below). Behind. Femoral vein. Profunda artery and vein. Pectineus muscle. Adductor longus. Adductor magnus. The femoral vein, at Poupart's ligament, lies close artery, separated from it by a thin fibrous partition behind it, and then to its outer side. to the inner side of the but, lower down, it is