200 THE SKELETON costal cartilages. The lateral surfaces are convex ; they are formed by the ribs, separated from each other by spaces, the intercostal spaces. These are eleven in nmnber, and are occupied by the intercostal muscles. The upioer opening of the thorax is reniform in shape, being broader from side to side than from before backwards. It is formed by tlie first dorsal vertebra behind, the upper margin of the sternum in front, and the first rib on each side. It slopes downwards and forwards, so that the anterior part of the ring is on a lower level than the posterior. The antero-posterior diameter is about two inches. The loiver opening is formed by the twelfth dorsal vertebra behind, by the twelfth rib at the sides, and in front by the cartilages of the eleventh, tenth, ninth, eighth, and seventh ribs, which ascend on either side and form an angle, the subcostal angle, from the centre of which the ensiform cartilage projects. It is wider trans- versely than from before backwards. It slopes obliquely downwards and backwards ; so that the cavity of the thorax is much deeper behind than in front. The Diaphragm closes in the opening forming the floor of the thorax. In the female, the thorax differs as follows from the male :—i. Its general capacity is less. 2. The sternum is shorter. 3. The upper margin of the sternum is on a level with the lower part of the body of the third dorsal vertebra, whereas in the male it is on a level with the lower part of the body of the second dorsal vertebra. 4. The upper ribs are more movable, and so allow a greater enlargement of the upper part of the thorax than in the male. The Steknum The Sternum (o-repvov, the chest) (figs. 179, 180) is a fiat, narrow bone, situated in the median line of the front of the chest, and consisting, in the adult, of three portions. It has been likened to an ancient sword : the upper piece, representing the handle, is termed the manuhrium; the middle and largest piece, which repre- sents the chief part of the blade, is termed the gladiolus ; and the inferior piece, which is likened to the point of the sword, is termed the ensiform or xiphoid ap2^t^ndix. In its natural position its inclination is oblique from above, downwards and forwards. It is flattened in front, concave behind, broad above, becoming narrowed at the point where the first and second pieces are connected ; after which it again widens a little, and is pointed at its extremity. Its average length in the adult is six inches, being rather longer in the male than in the female. The First Piece of the sternum, or Manubrium (pre-sternuvi), is of a somewhat triangular form, broad and thick above, narrow below at its junction with the middle piece. Its anterior surface, convex from side to side, concave from above downwards, is smooth, and affords attachment on each side to the Pectoralis major and sternal origin of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. In well-marked bones the ridges limiting the attachment of these muscles are very distinct. Its posterior surface, concave and smooth, affords attachment on each side to the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. The superior border, the thickest, presents at its centre the pre-sternal notcli; and on each side an oval articular surface, directed upwards, backwards, and outwards, for articulation with the sternal end of the clavicle. The inferior Zjo/y/c;'presents an oval, rough surface, covered in the recent state with a thin layer of cartilage, for articulation with the second portion of the bone. The lateral borders are marked above by a depression for the first costal cartilage, and below by a small facet, which, with a similar facet on the upper angle of the middle portion of the bone, forms a notch for the reception of the costal cartilage of the second rib. These articular surfaces are separated by a narrow, curved edge, which slopes from above downwards and inwards. The Second Piece of the sternum, or Gladiolus {meso-sternum), considerably longer, narrower, and thinner than the first piece, is broader below than above. Its anterior surface is nearly flat, directed upwards and forwards, and marked by three transverse lines which cross the bone opposite the third, fourth, and fifth articular depressions. These lines are produced by the union of the four separate