235 CAEPUS THE HAND The skeleton of the Hand is subdivided into three segments—the Carpus or wrist bones ; the Metacarpus or bones of the pahii ; and the Phalanges or bones of the fingers. The Carpus The bones of the Carpus (Kap-n-os, the tvrist), eight in number, are arranged in two rows. Those of the upper row, enumerated from the radial to the ulnar side, are the scaphoid, semilunar, cuneiform, and pisiform ; those of the lower row, enumerated in the same order, are the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform. Common Characters of the Carpal Bones Each bone (excepting the pisiform) presents six surfaces. Of these the anterior or palmar, and the posterior or dorsal are rough, for ligamentous attachment; the dorsal surface being the broader, except in the scaphoid and semilunar. The superior or proximal and inferior or distal are articular, the superior generally convex, the inferior concave ; and the internal and external are also articular when in contact with contiguous bones, otherwise rough and tubercular. The structure in all is similar, consisting of cancellous tissue enclosed in a layer of compact bone. Each bone is also developed from a single centre of ossification. Bones of the Upper Eov^ (figs- 204, 205) The Scaphoid (a-Ka<^77, a boat; etSos, like) is the largest bone of the first row. It has received its name from its fancied resemblance to a boat, being broad at one end, and narrowed like a prow at the opposite. It is situated at the upper and outer part of the carpus, its long axis being from above downwards, outwards, and forwards. The superior surface is convex, smooth, of triangular shape, and articulates with the lower end of the radius. The inferior surface, directed downwards, outwards, and backwards, is smooth, convex, also triangular, and divided by a slight ridge into two parts, the external of which articulates with the trapezium, the inner with the trapezoid. The posterior or dorsal surface presents a narrow, rough groove, which runs the entire breadth of the bone, and serves for the attachment of ligaments. The anterior or palmar surface is concave above, and elevated at its lower and outer part into a prominent, rounded tubercle, which projects forwards from the front of the carpus and gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. The external surface is rough and narrow, and gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the wrist. The internal surface presents two articular facets ; of these, the superior or smaller one is flattened, of semilunar form, and articulates with the semilunar; the inferior or larger is concave, forming, with the semilunar bone, a concavity for the head of the os magnum. To ascertain to which side the bone belongs, hold it with the superior, or radial, convex, articular, surface upwards, and the posterior surface—i.e. the narrow, non-articular, grooved surface—towards you. The tubercle on the outer surface points to the side to which the bone belongs.* Articulations.—With five bones : the radius above, trapezium and trapezoid below, OS magnum and semilunar internally. The Semilunar {semi, half ; luna, moon) bone may be distinguished by its deep concavity and crescentic outline. It is situated in the centre of the upper row of the carpus, between the scaphoid and cuneiform. The superior surface, convex, * In these dkections each bone is supposed to be placed in its natural position—that is, such a position as it would occupy when the arm is hanging by the side, the forearm in a position of supination, the thumb being directed outwards and the palm of the- hand looking forwards.