THE SMALL INTESTINE 913 one finger's breadth below and parallel with the margin of the left costal cartilages, commencing an inch and a half from the median line and being about three inches in length. Some surgeons prefer a straight incision, beginning opposite to the end of the eighth intercostal space, and passing down for three inches over the Rectus abdominis muscle. The skin, fasciae, and muscles are to be severally divided down to the peritoneum. Howse recommends that the sheath of the Rectus should be opened longitudinally and the fibres of this muscle separated, and not cut, in the same direction, so as to secure a sphincter-like action around the opening. After the peritoneum has been opened, the stomach is recognised by its pink red colour and smooth surface. It is to be pulled up into the wound and sutured to the opening. This may be done in several ways, but in whatever way it is done the following points should be carefully a.ttended to. (i) In taking up the stomach, only to pass the needle through the serous and muscular coats, and avoid puncturing the mucous membrane. (2) To take up plenty of the muscular coat. (3) In passing the needle through the parietes of the abdomen, to be careful to include the parietal peritoneimi. (4) To enclose a circle of the stomach at least an inch in diameter. If the symptoms admit of it, the parts are now to be left quiet for four or five days, and a small puncture is then to be made through the exposed portion of the stomach and a gum elastic catheter passed through it into the viscus, through which fluid can be injected, in small quantities at first. In more urgent cases it may be necessary to make the opening much earlier. Excision of the pylorus has occasionally been performed, but the results of this opera- tion are by no means favourable, and, in cases of cancer of the pylorus, gastro-enterostomy is generally preferred. The object of this operation is to make a fistulous communication between the stomach, on the cardiac side of the disease, and the small intestine, as high up as is possible. The Small Intestine The small intestine is a convoluted tube, about twenty feet in length,* which gradually diminishes in size from its commencement to its termination. It is contained in the central and lower parts of the abdominal and pelvic cavities, surrounded above and at the sides by the large intestine ; it is in relation, in front, with the great omentum and abdominal parietes ; and connected to the spine by a fold of peritoneum, the mesentery. The small intestine is divisible into three portions—the duodenum, the jejunum, and ileum. The duodenum has received its name from being about equal in length to the breadth of twelve fingers (eight or ten inches). It is the shortest, the widest, and the most fixed part of the small intestine ; it has no mesentery, and is only partially covered by the peritoneum. Its course presents a remarkable curve, somewhat like a horsehoe in form ; the convexity being directed towards the right, and the concavity to the left, embracing the head of the pancreas. Commencing at the pylorus, it -passes obliquely upwards, backwards, and to the right, to the under surface of the liver ; it then descends in front of the right kidney, and passes nearly transversely across the front of the spine, terminating in the jejunum on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. Hence the duodenum has been divided into three portions—ascending, descending, and transverse. The first, or ascending portion (fig. 532), about two inches in length, is free, movable, and nearly completely invested by the peritoneum, which forms the lesser omentum. It is in relation, above and in front, with the liver and neck of the gall-bladder ; behind, with the vessels which run between the layers of the lesser omentum, viz. the hepatic artery and duct, and vena portae. This portion of the intestine is usually found, after death, stained with bile, especially on its anterior surface. The second, or descending portion, about three inches in length, is firmly fixed by the peritoneum and pancreas. It passes from the neck of the gall-bladder vertically downwards, in front of the right kidney, as far as the third lumbar vertebra. It is covered by peritoneum only on its anterior surface. It is in relation, in front, with the right arch of the colon'and the meso-colon ; behind, with * Treves states that, in one hundred cases, the average length of the small intestine in the adult male was 22 feet 6 inches, and in the adult female 23 feet 4 inches: but that it varies very much, the extremes in the male being 31 feet 10 inches in one case, and 15 feet 6 inches in another, a difference of over 15 feet. He states that he has convinced himself that the length of the bowel is independent, in the adult, of age, height, and weight. 3N