SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM loyo ligament of the urethra (deep X3erineal fascia) ; and running from behind forwards in it are the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, and the transverse perineal artery coursing along the posterior boundary of the space, on the Transversus perinaei muscle. The two terminal branches of the internal pudic artery are also to be seen in this space : the dorsal artery of the penis ascending between the crus and the pubic arch, and the artery to the corpus cavernosum entering the crus immedi- ately after the division of the parent trunk. The perineal nerve and dorsal nerve of the penis, the two terminal branches of the pudic nerve, are also contained in this space : the perineal dividing into muscular and cutaneous branches, and the dorsal nerve accompanying the dorsal artery along the ischio-pubic ramus, and with it piercing the suspensory ligament to be distributed to the penis. The Accelerator urinae and Erector penis should now be removed, when the deep perineal fascia will be exposed, stretching across the front part of the outlet of the pelvis. The urethra is seen perforating its centre, just behind the bulb ; and on each side is the crus penis, connecting- the corpus cavernosum with the rami of the ischium and os pubis. Fig. 632.—The superficial muscles and vessels of the perinaeum. The deep perineal fascia (triangular ligament), which has already been described (see page 441), consists of two layers, the inferior or superficial layer of which, sometimes called the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, is now exposed. It is united to the superior or deep layer behind, but is separated in front by a subfascial space in which are contained certain structures. The superficial layer of the deep perineal fascia consists of a strong fibrous membrane, the fibres of which are disposed transversely, which stretches across from one ischio-pubic ramus to the other, and completely fills in the pubic arch ; it is attached in front to the subpubic ligament, except just in the centre, where a small interspace is left for the dorsal vein of the penis. In the erect position of the body it is almost horizontal. It is perforated by the urethra in the middle line, and on each side by the ducts of Cowper's glands. It is pierced also by several branches of the internal pudic artery, the dorsal artery of the penis near the apex of the ligament; the artery to the corpus cavernosum more posteriorly, close to the lateral margin of the ligament and the artery to the bulb in front of the opening for Cowper's duct. The dorsal nerve of the penis also passes through the ligament.