394 MUSCLES AND FASCIA and from the vertical intrinsic muscle, which will be described later on. Beneath this layer is the second stratmii of muscular fibres, derived principally from the extrinsic muscles. In front, it is formed by the fibres derived from the Stylo-glossus, running along the side of the tongue, and sending one set of fibres over the dorsum which runs obliquely forwards and inwards to the middle line, and another set of fibres, seen at a later period of the dissection, on to the under surface of the sides of the anterior part of the tongue, which run forwards and inwards, between the fibres of the Hyo-giossus, to the middle line. Behind this layer of fibres, derived from the Stylo-glossus, are fibres derived from the Hyo-giossus, assisted by some few fibres of the Palato-giossus. The Hyo-giossus, entering the side of the under surface of the tongue, between the Stylo-glossus and Inferior lingualis, passes round its margin and spreads out into a layer on the dorsum, which occupies the middle third of the organ, and runs almost transversely inwards to the septum. It is reinforced by some fibres from the Palato-giossus ; other fibres of this muscle pass more deeply and intermingle with the next layer. The posterior part of the Fig. 280.— Muscles on the dorsum of the tongue. I ^O^^ / Fig. 281.—Coronal section of tongue. Showing > .\ intrinsic muscles. (Altered from Krause.) I Old edge of SujjrrficiaJ lingualis second layer of the muscular fibres of the tongue is derived from those fibres of the Hyo-giossus which arise from the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, and are here described as a separate muscle—the Chondro-glossus. The fibres of this muscle are arranged in a fan-shaped manner, and spread out over the posterior third of the tongue. Beneath this layer is the great mass of the intrinsic muscles of the tongue, intersected at right angles by the terminal fibres of one of the extrinsic muscles—the Genio-hyo-glossus. This portion of the tongue is paler in colour and softer in texture than that already described, and is sometimes designated the medullary portion in contradistinction to the firmer superficial part, which is termed the cortical portion. It consists largely of transverse fibres, the Transverse lingualis, and of vertical fibres, the Vertical lingualis. The Transverse lingualis forms the largest portion of the third layer of muscular fibres of the