532 ARTEEIES large branches of the artery (facial, lingual, superior thyroid, occipital) and the correspond- ing arteries of the opposite side, and by the anastomosis of its branches with those of the internal carotid, and of the occipital with branches of the subclavian, etc. Plan of the Relations of the Exteenal Carotid In front. Skin, superficial fascia. Platysma and deep fascia- Anterior border of Sterno-mastoid. Hypoglossal nerve. Lingual and facial veins. Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles. Parotid gland with facial nerve and temporo-maxillary vein in its Internally. ^ ^ [substance. Hyoid bone. / \ Pharynx. / \ ' Externally. Superior laryngeal nerve. Carotit'i -r . i . • -. , Parotid gland. I / ^^^^^^^^l ^^^^t^^^ a^t^^y- Ramus of jaw. Belii7id. Superior laryngeal nerve. Stylo-glossus. Stylo-pharyngeus. Glosso-pharj^ngeal nerve. Parotid gland. Braaches.—The external carotid artery gives off eight branches, which, for convenience of description, may be divided into four sets. (See fig. 348, Plan of the Branches.) Anterior. Posterior. Ascending. Terminal. Superior Thyroid. Occipital. Ascending Pha- Superficial Temporal. Lingual. Posterior Auricular. ryngeal. Internal Maxillary. Facial. The student is here reminded that many variations are met with in the number, origin, and course of these branches in different subjects ; but the above arrangement is that w^hich is found in the great majority of cases. The Superior Thyroid Artery (figs. 347 and 352) is the first branch given off from the external carotid, being derived from that vessel just below the great cornu of the hyoid bone. At its commencement, it is quite superficial, being covered by the integument, fascia, and Platysma, and is contained in the triangular space bounded by the Sterno-mastoid, Digastric, and Omo-hyoid muscles. After running upwards and inwards for a'short distance, it curves downwards and forwards, in an arched and tortuous manner, to the upper part of the thyroid gland, passing beneath the Omo-hyoid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-thyroid muscles ; and distributes numerous branches to the anterior surface of the gland, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the inferior thyroid arteries. Besides the arteries distributed to the muscles by which it is covered and the substance of the gland, the branches of the superior thyroid are the following : — Hyoid. Superior Laryngeal. Superficial descending branch (Sterno-mastoid). Crico-thyroid. The hyoid is a small branch Avhich runs along the lower border of the os hyoides beneath the Thyro-hyoid muscle; after supplying the muscles connected to that bone, it forms an arch, by anastomosing with the vessels of the opposite side. The superficial descending^ branch runs downwards and outwards across the sheath of the common carotid artery, and supplies the Sterno-mastoid and neigh-