GENEEAL ANATOMY 86 Fig. 90.—Longitudinal section of the head of an embryo four weeks old, seen from the mside. . Ocular vesicle. 2. Optic nerve flattened out. 3. Fore brain. 4. Intermediary brain. 5. Middle brain. 6. Hinder brain. 7. After brain. 8. Anterior portion of the tentorium cerebelli. 9. Its lateral portion intervening between Nos. 4 and 5. 10. The pharyngeal curve, bent into a cul-de-sac. n. The audi- tory vesicle. thxQQ primary ccrehrcd vesicles, imm which all the different parts of the encephalon are presently to be developed. The most anterior of the three forms the optic thalamus, whilst a hollow projection from it forms the corpus striatum and the cerebral hemispheres ; the middle one forms the tubercula quadrigemina ; the posterior the medulla oblongata. The primary cerebral vesicles are at this time, of course, hollow^, and their cavities freely com- municate with each other at the points of con- striction. As the embryo grows, the cerebral vesicles become twice bent forward on their own axis (figs. 90, 91, A and b). The upper or posterior curvature is called the cerebral; the lower or anterior, the frontal protuberance. Thus, w^e have a triple cavity (see fig. 91, a, where the three cavities are marked c, mc, and mo), lined by epiblast and covered by the same structure. Between these two layers of epiblast, a layer of mesoblast, derived from the protovertebral plates of the trunk, is prolonged and spreads over the w^hole surface of the cerebral vesicles. From these structures the cranium and its contents are developed. The external layer of the epiblast forms the super- ficial epithelium of the scalp. The mesoblastic layer forms the true skin, the blood-vessels, muscles, connective tissue, bones of the skull and membranes of the brain. The layer of epiblast Hning the cavity forms the nervous substance of the encephalon, while the cavity itself constitutes the ventricles. The upper end of the notochord terminates at its cephalic end in a pointed extremity which extends as far forwards as the situation of the body of the future sphenoid bone, and is there embedded in a mass of tissue, the ' investing mass of Eathke.' This mass, derived from mesoblastic tissue, becomes cartilaginous, and from it is developed the basi-occipital and basi-sphenoid bones; and by lateral expansions from it the occipitals, the greater wings of the sphenoid, and the periotic mass of cartilage surrounding the primary auditory vesicles. From the front of the investing mass of Eathke, which corresponds in position to the future dorsum sellag, two lateral bars are directed forwards enclosing a space, which forms the pituitary fossa, in which the pituitary body is eventually developed. These bars are named the trabeculce cranii, and extend as far forwards as the anterior extremity of the head, where they coalesce wdth each other. From them the pre-sphenoid and lateral masses of the ethmoid are developed; and from their coalescence a process is prolonged downw^ards to form a portion of the framework of the face hereafter to be described. From the pre-sphenoids, which are developed from these trabeculse, a lateral expansion takes place, wiiich forms the orbito- sphenoid or lesser wings of the sphenoid, enclosing the optic foramen. The portions of the base of the skull above enumerated are formed from cartilage ; the remaining parts, comprising the vault of the skull, are of membranous formation. The head at first consists simply of a cranial cavity, the face being subsequently developed in the manner now to be described by a series of arches with clefts between them (fig. 92). It is usual in our text-books to describe the arches as a series of proce sses which jut out and grow^ downwards, inclining tow^ards each other until they meet in the middle line and thus form a series of inverted arches; whilst the clefts are the spaces left between each pair of processes. This, however, is scarcely the true description, and leads rather to the false impression that the arches are formed by processes budding out from the embryo, much in the same way as the extremities do, and that they are free on every side. What would appear rather to be the case is that the clefts are first formed, and that the arches consist of a thickening of the tissue on either side of the cleft. The arches thus formed