786 SPINAL NERVES distributed to the integument, communicating with a branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. The second branch [ijahnar cutaneous) lies on the ulnar artery, which it accompanies to the hand, some filaments entwining round the vessel; it ends in the integument of the palm, communicating with branches of the median nerve. The dorsal cutaneous branch arises about two inches above the wrist; it passes backwards beneath the Flexor carpi ulnaris, perforates the deep fascia, and, running along the ulnar side of the back of the wrist and hand, supplies the inner side of the little finger, and the adjoining sides of the little and ring fingers ; it communicates with the posterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, and sends a communicating filament to that branch of the radial nerve which supplies the adjoining sides of the middle and ring fingers. The articular filaments to the wrist are also supphed by the ulnar nerve. The superficial palmar branch supplies the Palmaris brevis, and the integu- ment on the inner side of the hand, and terminates in two digital branches, which are distributed, one to the ulnar side of the little finger, the other to the adjoining sides of the little and ring fingers, the latter communicating with a branch from the median. The digital branches are distributed to the fingers in the same manner as the digital branches of the median. The deep palmar branch passes between the Abductor and Flexor brevis minimi digiti muscles, and follows the course of the deep palmar arch beneath the flexor tendons. At its origin it supplies the muscles of the little finger. As it crosses the deep part of the hand, it sends two branches to each interosseous space, one for the Dorsal and one for the Palmar interosseous muscle, the branches to the Second and Third palmar interossei supplying filaments to the two inner Lumbrical muscles. At its termination between the thumb and index finger, it supplies the Adductores transversus et obliquus pollicis and the inner head of the Flexor brevis pollicis. It will be remembered that the inner part of the Flexor profundus digitorum is supplied by the ulnar nerve; the two inner Lumbricales, which are connected with the tendons of this part of the muscle, are therefore supplied by the same nerve. The outer part of the Flexor profundus is supplied by the median nerve ; the two outer Lumbricales, which are connected with the tendons of this part of the muscle, are therefore supplied by the same nerve. The Musculo-spiral Nerve (fig. 462), the largest branch of the brachial plexus, supplies the muscles of the back part of the arm and forearm, and the integument of the same parts, as well as that of the back of the hand. It arises from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus by a common trunk with the circumflex nerve, and is afterwards joined by the posterior division of the trunk formed by the junction of the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves. It receives filaments from the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves. At its commence- ment it is placed behind the axillary and upper part of the brachial arteries, passing down in front of the tendons of the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major. It winds round the humerus in the musculo-spiral groove with the superior profunda artery, passing from the inner to the outer side of the bone, between the internal and ex- ternal heads of the Triceps muscle. It pierces the external intermuscular septum, and descends between the Brachialis anticus and Supinator longus to the front of the external condyle, where it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. The branches of the musculo-spiral nerve are :— Muscular. Radial. Cutaneous. Posterior interosseous. The muscular branches are divided into internal, posterior, and external; they supply the Triceps, Anconeus, Supinator longus. Extensor carpi radialis longior, and Brachialis anticus. These branches are derived from the nerve, at the inner side, back part, and outer side of the arm. The internal muscular branches supply the inner and middle heads of the