179 BASE OF THE SKULL bones.' The same author remarks that the time of theu* disappearance is extremely variable : they are sometimes fomid well marked in skulls edentulous with age, while in others which have only just reached maturity they can hardly be traced. THE SKULL The Skull, formed by the union of the several cranial and facial bones already described, when considered as a whole, is divisible into five regions : a superior region or vertex, an inferior region or base, two lateral regions, and an anterior region, the face. Vertex of the Skull The Superior Region, or Vertex, presents two surfaces, an external and an internal. The external surface is bounded, in front, by the glabella and supra-orbital ridges; behind, by the occipital protuberance and superior curved lines of the occipital bone ; laterally, by an imaginary line extending from the outer end of the superior curved line, along the tem^Doral ridge, to the external angular process of the frontal. This surface includes the vertical portion of the frontal, the greater part of the parietal, and the superior third of the occipital bone ; it is smooth, convex, of an elongated oval form, crossed transversely by the coronal suture, and from before backwards by the sagittal, which terminates behind in the lambdoid. The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures is named the bregma, and is represented by a line drawn vertically upwards from the external auditory meatus, the head being in its normal position. The point of junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures is called the lambda, and is about 2J inches above the external occipital protuberance. From before backwards may be seen the frontal eminences and remains of the suture connecting the two lateral halves of the frontal bone ; on each side of the sagittal suture are the parietal foramen and parietal eminence, and still more posteriorly the convex surface of the occipital bone. In the neigh- bourhood of the parietal foramen the skull is often flattened, and to this region the name of ohelion is sometimes given. The internal surface is concave, presents eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the cerebrum, and numerous furrows for the lodgment of branches of the meningeal arteries. Along the middle line of this surface is a longitudinal groove, narrow in front, where it commences at the frontal crest; but broader behind, where it lodges the superior longitudinal sinus, and by its margin affords attachment to the falx cerebri. On either side of it are several depressions for the Pacchionian bodies, and at its back part, the internal openings of the parietal I foramina. This surface is crossed, in front, by the coronal suture ; from before ! backwards, by the sagittal; behind, by the lambdoid. Base of the Skull The Inferior Region, or Base of the Skull, presents two surfaces—an internal or cerebral, and an external or basilar. The internal or cerebral surface (fig. 172) joresents three fossae, called the anterior, middle, and posterior fossae of the cranium. The Anterior Fossa is formed by the orbital plates of the frontal, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, the anterior third of the superior surface of the body, and the jupper surface of the lesser wings of the sphenoid. It is the most elevated of the jthree fossae, convex externally where it corresponds to the roof of the orbit, concave 111 the median line in the situation of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. It is ifcraversed by three sutures, the ethmo-frontal, ethmo-sphenoidal, and fronto- sphenoidal; and lodges the frontal lobe of the cerebrum. It presents, in the median line, from before backwards, the commencement of the groove for the puperior longitudinal sinus, and the frontal crest for the attachment of the falx I N 2