192 THE SKELETON seen the sphenoidal turbmated bones, the orifices of the sphenoidal sinuses, and the articulation of the alfe of the vomer with the under surface of the body of the sphenoid. The floor is flattened from before backwards, concave from side to side, and wider in the middle than at either extremity. It is formed in front by the palate process of the superior maxillary; behind, by the palate process of the palate-bone. This surface presents, from before backwards, the anterior nasal spine; behind this, the upper orifices of the anterior palatine canal; internally, the elevated crest which articulates with the vomer; and behind, the suture between the palate and superior maxillary bones, and the posterior nasal spine. The inner wall, or septum (fig. 177), is a thin vertical partition, which separates the nasal fossae from one another ; it is occasionally perforated, so that the fossaB communicate, and it is frequently deflected considerably to one side.* It is formed. Fig. 177.—Imier wall of nasal fossae, or septmn of nose. in front, by the crest of the nasal bones and nasal spine of the frontal; in the middle, by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid ; behind, by the vomer and rostrum of the sphenoid ; below, by the crest of the superior maxillary and palate bones. It presents, in front, a large, triangular notch, which receives the triangular cartilage of the nose; and behind, the guttural edge of the vomer. Its surface is marked by numerous vascular and nervous canals and the groove for the naso- palatine nerve, and is traversed by sutures connecting the bones of which it is formed. The outer wall (fig. 176) is formed, in front, by the nasal process of the superior maxillary and lachrymal bones; in the middle, by the ethmoid and inner surface of the superior maxillary and inferior turbinated bones ; behind, by the vertical plate of the palate-bone, and the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. This surface presents three irregular longitudinal passages, or meatuses, formed between three horizontal plates of bone that spring from it; they are termed the superior, middle, and inferior meatuses of the nose. The suijcrior meatus, the * See footnote, p. 156.