64 GENEEAL ANATOMY mosing. The wall of the duct is thick, the width of the canal rarely exceeding one third of its diameter. The tuhe, both in the gland and where it forms the excre- tory duct, consists of two layers—an outer, formed by fine areolar tissue, and an inner layer of epithelium. The external or fibro-cellular coat is thin, continuous with the superficial layer of the corium, and extends only as high as the surface of the true skin. The epithelial lining in the distal part of the coiled tube of the gland proper consists of a single layer of cubical epithelium, supported on a basement membrane^ and beneath it, between the epithelium and the fibro-cellular coat, a layer of plain muscular fibres, arranged longitudinally. In the duct and the proximal part of the coiled tube of the gland proper there are two or more layers of polyhedral cells, lined on their internal surface, i.e. next the lumen of the tube, by a deli- cate membrane or cuticle, and on their outer surface by a limiting membrana propria, but there are no muscular fibres. The epithelium is continuous with the epidermis and with the delicate internal cuticle which is all that is present in the epidermic portion of the tube. When the cuticle is carefully removed from the surface of the cutis, these convoluted tubes of epithelium may be drawn out and form short, thread-like processes on its under surface. The contents of the smaller sweat-glands are quite fluid ; but in the larger glands the contents are semi-fluid and opaque, and contain a number of coloured granules and cells which appear analogous to epithelial cells. SEROUS MEMBRANES The serous membranes form shut sacs and may be regarded as lymph-sacs, from which lymphatic vessels arise by stomata or openings between the epi helial cells (see page 55). The sac consists of one portion which is applied to the walls of the cavity which it lines—the parietal portion; and another reflected over the surface of the organ or organs contained in the cavity—the visceral portion. Sometimes the sac is arranged quite simply, as the tunica vaginalis testis ; at others with numerous involutions or recesses, as the peritoneum, in which, nevertheless, the membrane can always be traced continuously around the whole circumference. The sac is completely closed, so that no communication exists between the serous cavity and the parts in its neighbourhood. An apparent exception exists in the peri-: toneum of the female ; for the Fallopian tube opens freely into the peritoneal cavity in the dead subject, so that a bristle can be passed from the one into the other. But this communication is closed during life, except at the moment of the passage of the ovum out of the ovary into the tube, as is proved by the fact that no inter- change of fluids ever takes place between the two cavities in dropsy of the perito- neum, or in accumulation of fluid in the Fallopian tubes.* The serous membrane is often supported by a firm, fibrous layer, as is the case with the pericardium, and such membranes are sometimes spoken of as ' fibro-serous.' The various serous membranes are the peritoneum, lining tlie cavity of the * The communication between the uterine cavity and the peritoneal sac is not only apparent in the dead subject, but is an anatomical fact, Avhich is established by the con- tinuity of its epithelium with that covering the uterus, Fallopian tubes, and fimbriae. Fig. 70.—Coiled tube of a sweat-gland cut in various directions. ft. Longitudinal section of the proximal part of the coiled tube. h. Transverse section of the same c. Longitu- dinal section of the distal part of the coiled tube. d. Transverse section of the same. (From Klein and Noble Smith's ' Atlas of Histology.')