BRANCHES OF RADIAL 581 through the integument, in a Hne drawn from the centre of the bend of the elbow to the front of the styloid process of the radius, avoiding the branches of the median vein ; the fascia of the arm being divided, and the Supinator longus drawn a little outwards, the artery will be exposed. The venae comites should be carefully separated from the vessel, and the ligature passed from the radial to the ulnar side. In the middle third of the forearm the artery may be exposed by making an incision of the Supinator longus. In this situation, the Fig. 365.—Ulnar and radial arteries. Deep view. of similar length on the inner margin radial nerve lies in close relation with the outer side of the artery, and should, as well as the veins, be carefully avoided. In the lower third, the artery is easily secured by dividing the integu- ment and fascia in the interval between the tendons of the Supinator longus and Flexor carpi radialis muscles. The branches of the radial artery may be divided into three groups, corresponding with the three regions in which the vessel is situated. In the Forearm. Wrist. Radial Eecurrent. Muscular. Anterior Carpal. Superficialis Volse. /Posterior Carpal. J Metacarpal. I Dorsales Pollicis. VDorsalis Indicis. /Princeps Pollicis. I Eadialis Indicis. Hand. -| Perforating. j Interosseous. I Palmar Recurrent. Radial recurrent Posterior interosseous Muscular A lienor carpal Deep branch of ulnar The radial recurrent is given off immediately below the elbow. It ascends between the branches of the musculo-spiral nerve lying on the Supinator brevis, and then between the Supinator longus and Brachialis anticus, supplying these „ Anterior cat pal \ Superjictalis voLce- muscles and the eibow-jomt, and anastomosing with one of the terminal branches of the superior profunda. The muscular branches are dis- tributed to the muscles on the radial side of the forearm. The anterior carpal is a small vessel which arises from the radial artery near the lower border of the Pronator quadratus, and, running- inwards in front of the radius, anastomoses with the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery. From the arch thus formed, branches descend to supply the articulations of the wrist. The superficialis volae arises from the radial artery, just where this vessel is about to wind round the wrist. Running forwards, it passes between the muscles of the thumb, which it supplies, and sometimes anastomoses with the palmar Anastomotica magna Anterior ulnar recurrent Posterior ulnar recurrent Muscular