CAETILAGE 21 nective tissue arranged in bundles, with cartilage-cells between the bundles; these to a certain extent resemble tendon-cells, but may be distinguished from them by being surrounded by an investing capsule and by their being less flattened (fig. 24). The fibro-cartilages admit of arrangement into four groups Fig. 24.—White fibro-cartilage from the semilunar —interarticular, connecting, circumferential, and strati- form. The interarticular fibro- cartilages {menisci) are flattened fibro-cartilaginous plates, of a round, oval, tri- angular, or sickle-like form, interposed between the articu- 1 lar cartilages of certain joints. They are free on both surfaces, [ thinner towards their centre ' than at their circumference, and held in position by their margins and extremities being connected to the surrounding- ligaments. The synovial membrane of the joint is prolonged over them a short distance from their attached margins. They are found in the temporo-maxillary, sterno-clavicular, acromio-clavicular, wrist and knee joints. These cartilages are usually found in those joints which are most exposed to violent concussion and subject to frequent movement. Their use is—to maintain the apposition of the opposed surfaces in their various motions; to increase the depth of the articular surfaces and give ease to the gliding movement; to moderate the effects of great pressure and deaden the intensity of the shocks to which the parts may be sub- jected. Humphry has pointed out that these interarticular fibro-cartilages serve an important purpose in increasing the variety of movements in a joint. Thus, in the knee-joint, there are two kinds of motion, viz. angular movement and rotation ; although it is a hinge joint, in which, as a rule, only one variety of motion is permitted ; the former movement taking place between the condyles of the femur and the interarticular cartilage, the latter between the cartilage and the head of the tibia. So, also, in the temporo-maxillary joint, the upward and down- ward movement of opening and shutting the mouth takes place between the I cartilage and the jaw-bone, the grinding movement between the glenoid cavity and j the cartilage, the latter moving with the jaw-bone. The connecting fibro-cartilages are interposed between the bony surfaces of those joints which admit of only slight mobility, as between the bodies of the vertebrae and between the pubic bones. They form discs, which adhere closely to both of the opposed bones, and are composed of concentric rings of fibrous tissue, with cartilaginous laminae interposed, the former tissue predominating towards the circumference, the latter towards the centre. The circumferential fibro-cartilages consist of a rim of fibro-cartilage, which surrounds the margin of some of the articular cavities, as the cotyloid cavity of the hip, and the glenoid cavity of the shoulder ; they serve to deepen the articular surface, and to protect the edges of the bone, j The stratiform fibro-cartilages are those which form a thin coating to osseous I grooves through which the tendons of certain muscles glide. Small masses of fibro-cartilages are also developed in the tendons of some muscles, where they glide over bones, as in the tendons of the peroneus longus and the tibialis posticus. Yellow, or reticular, elastic cartilage is found in the human body in the auricle of the external ear, the Eustachian tubes, the cornicula laryngis, and the I epiglottis. It consists of cartilage-cells and a matrix, the latter being pervaded disc of the patella joint of an ox. Magnified 100 times.