MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION I020 transversely; they are largest anteriorly. They are occupied by venous blood, and are lined by a layer of flattened cells similar to the endothelial lining of veins. The whole of the structure of the corpora cavernosa, contained within the fibrous sheath, consists therefore of a sponge-like tissue of areolar spaces, freely communicating with each other and filled with venous blood. The spaces may therefore be regarded as large cavernous veins. The arteries, bringing the blood to these spaces are the arteries of the corpora cavernosa and branches from the dorsal artery of the penis, which perforate the fibrous capsule, along the upper surface, especially near the fore part of the organ. These arteries on entering the cavernous structure divide into branches, which are supported and enclosed by the trabeculae. Some of these terminate in a capillary network, the branches of which open directly into the cavernous spaces ; others assume a tendril-like appearance, and form convoluted and somewhat dilated vessels which were named by Miiller, helicim arteries. They project into the spaces, and from them are given off small capillary branches to supply the trabecular structure. They are bound down in the spaces by fine fibrous processes, and are more abundant in the back part of the corpora cavernosa (fig. 606). The blood from the cavernous spaces is returned by a series of vessels, some of which emerge in considerable numbers from the base of the gians penis and FiGr. 606.—From the peripheral portion of the corpus cavemosiim penis under a low magnifying power. (Copied from Langer.) I. a. Capillary network, h. Cavernous spaces. 2. Connection of the arterial twigs (rt) with the cavernous spaces. converge on the dorsum of the organ to form the dorsal vein; others pass out on the upper surface of the corpora cavernosa and join the dorsal vein ; some emerge from the under surface of the corpora cavernosa and, receiving branches from the corpus spongiosum, wind round the sides of the penis to terminate in the dorsal vein ; but the greater number pass out at the root of the penis, and join the prostatic plexus. The Corpus Spongiosum encloses the urethra, and is situated in the groove on the under surface of the corpora cavernosa. It commences posteriorly in front of the deep perineal fascia, between the diverging crura of the corpora cavernosa, where it forms a rounded enlargement, the hulh ; and terminates, anteriorly, in another expansion, the glans penis, which overlaps the anterior rounded extremity of the corpora cavernosa. The central portion, or body of the corpus spongiosum, is cylindrical, and tapers slightly from behind forwards. The hulh varies in size in different subjects; it receives a fibrous investment from the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, and is surrounded by the Accelerator urinag muscle. The urethra enters the bulb nearer its upper than its lower surface, being surrounded by a layer of erectile tissue, a thin prolongation of which is continued backwards round the membranous and prostatic portions of the canal to the neck of the bladder, lying between the two layers of muscular tissue. The portion of the bulb below the urethra presents a partial division into