ARTERIES 55° the deep temporal arteries ; the other appears on the cheek, and anastomoses with the transverse faciah A branch is also sent backwards, through the sphenoidal fissure, to the dura mater, which anastomoses with a branch of the middle menin- geal artery. Peculiarities.—The lachrymal artery is sometimes derived from one of the anterior branches of the middle meningeal artery. The supra-orbital artery arises from the ophthalmic as that vessel is crossing over the optic nerve. Ascending so as to rise above all the muscles of the orbit, it passes forwards, with the supra-orbital nerve, between the periosteum and Levator palpebra; and, passing through the supra-orbital foramen, divides into a superficial and deep branch, which supply the integument, the muscles, and the pericranium of the forehead, anastomosing with the frontal, the anterior branch of the temporal, and the artery of the opposite side. This artery in the orbit supplies the Superior rectus and the Levator palpebrse, and sends a branch inwards, across the pulley of the Superior oblique muscle, to supply the parts at the inner canthus. At the supra-orbital foramen it frequently transmits a branch to the diploe. The ethmoidal branches are two in number : posterior and anterior. The former, which is the smaller, passes through the posterior ethmoidal foramen, supplies the posterior ethmoidal cells, and, entering the cranium, gives off a meningeal branch", which supplies the adjacent dura mater ; and nasal branches which descend into the nose through apertures in the cribriform plate, anasto- mosing with branches of the spheno-palatine. The anterior ethmoidal artery accompanies the nasal nerve through the anterior ethmoidal foramen, supplies the anterior ethmoidal cells and frontal sinuses, and, entering the cranium, gives off a meningeal branch, which supplies the adjacent dura mater, and nasal branches, which descend into the nose, through apertures in the cribriform plate. The palpebral arteries, two in number, superior and inferior, arise from the ophthalmic, opposite the pulley of the Superior oblique muscle ; they leave the orbit to encircle the eyelids near their free margin, forming a superior and an inferior arch, which lie between the Orbicularis muscle and tarsal plates ; the superior palpebral inosculating at the outer angle of the orbit with the orbital branch of the temporal artery, and with a branch from the lachrymal artery : the inferior palpebral'inosculating, at the outer angle of the orbit, with a branch from the lachrymal and transverse facial arteries, and, at the inner side of the lid, with a branch from the angular artery. From this anastomosis a branch passes to the nasal duct, ramifying in its mucous membrane, as far as the inferior meatus. The frontal artery, one of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic, passes from the orbit at its inner angle, and, ascending on the forehead, supplies the integument, muscles, and pericranium, anastomosing with the supra-orbital artery, and with the artery of the opposite side. The nasal artery, the other terminal branch of the ophthalmic, emerges from the orbit above the tendo oculi, and, after giving a branch to the upper part of the lachrymal sac, divides into tivo branches, one of which anastomoses with the angular artery; the other, the dorsalis nasi, runs along the dorsum of the nose, supplies its entire surface, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. The ciliary arteries are divisible into three groups, the short, long, and anterior. The short ciliary arteries, from six to twelve in number, arise from the ophthalmic, or some of its branches ; they surround the optic nerve as they pass forwards to the posterior part of the eyeball, pierce the sclerotic coat around the entrance of the nerve, and supply the choroid coat and ciliary processes. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, also pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic, and run forwards, along each side of the eyeball, between the sclerotic and choroid, to the ciliary muscle, where they divide into two branches ; these form an arterial circle