850 OKGANS OF SENSE from the mesoblast, and associated in its diseases with the fibro-vascular structures of the body ; and (3) the posterior elastic layer with its endothelium, also derived from the mesoblast and having the characters of a serous membrane, so that inflammation of it resembles inflammation of the other serous and synovial membranes of the body. The cornea contains no blood-vessels except at its periphery, where numerous delicate loops, derived from the anterior ciliary arteries, may be demonstrated on the anterior surface of the cornea. The rest of the cornea is nourished by lymph, which gains access to the proper substance of the cornea and the posterior layer through the spaces of Fontana. This lack of a direct blood-supply renders the cornea very apt to inflame in the cachectic and ill-nourished. In cases of granular lids, there is a peculiar affection of the cornea, called pannus, in which the anterior layers of the cornea become vascularised, and a rich network of blood-vessels may be seen on the cornea ; and in interstitial keratitis new A^essels extend into the cornea, giving it a pinkish hue, to which the term ' salmon patch ' is applied. The cornea is richly supplied with nerves, derived from the ciliary, which enter the cornea through the fore part of the sclerotic and form plexuses in the stroma, terminating between the epithelial cells by free ends or in corpuscles. In cases of glaucoma the ciliary nerves may be pressed upon as they course between the choroid and sclerotic, and the cornea becomes anaesthetic. The sclerotic has very few blood-vessels and nerves. The blood-vessels are derived from the anterior ciliary, and form an open plexus in its substance. As they approach the corneal margin this arrangement is peculiar. Some branches pass through the sclerotic to the ciliary body; others become superficial and lie in the episcleral tissue, and form arches, by anastomosing with each other, some little distance behind the corneal margin. From these arches numerous straight vessels are given off, which run forwards to the cornea, forming its marginal plexus. In inflammation of the sclerotic and episcleral tissue these vessels become conspicuous, and form a pinkish zone of straight vessels radiating from the corneal margin, commonly known as the zone of ciliary injection. In inflammation of the iris and ciliary body this zone is present, since the sclerotic speedily becomes involved when these structures are inflamed. But in inflammation of the cornea the sclerotic is seldom much afi^ected, though the cornea and sclerotic are structurally continuous. This would appear to be due to the fact, that the nutrition of the cornea is derived from a different source from that of the sclerotic. The sclerotic may be ruptured subcutaneously without any laceration of the conjunctiva, and the rupture usually occurs near the corneal margin, where the tunic is thinnest. It may be complicated with lesions of adjacent parts—laceration of the choroid, retina, iris, or suspensory ligament of the lens—and is then often attended with haemorrhage into the anterior chamber, which masks the nature of the injury. In some cases the lens has escaped through the rent in the sclerotic and has been found under the conjunctiva. Wounds of the sclerotic are always dangerous, and are often followed by inflammation, suppuration, and by sympathetic ophthalmia. The function of the choroid is to provide nutrition for the retina, and to convey vessels and nerves to the ciliary body and iris. Inflammation of the choroid is therefore followed by grave disturbance in the nutrition of the retina, and is attended with early interference with vision. In its diseases it bears a considerable analogy to those which affect the skin, and, like it, is one of the places from which melanotic sarcomata may grow. These tumours contain a large amount of pigment in their cells, and grow only from those parts where pigment is naturally present. The choroid may be ruptured, without injury to the other tunics, as well as participating in general injuries of the eyeball. In cases of uncom- plicated rupture, the injury is usually at its posterior part, and is the result of a blow on the front of the eye. It is attended by considerable haemorrhage, which for a time may obscure vision, but, in most cases, this is restored, as soon as the blood is absorbed. The iris is the seat of a malformation, termed coIoboDia, which consists in a deficiency or cleft, which in a great number of cases is clearly due to an arrest in development. In these cases it is found at the lower aspect, extending directh' downwards from the pupil, and the gap frequently extends through the choroid to the entrance of the optic nerve. In some rarer cases the gap is found in other parts of the iris, and is then not associated with any deficiency of the choroid. The iris is abundantly supplied with blood-vessels and nerves, and is therefore very prone to become inflamed. And when inflamed, in consequence of the intimate relationship which exists between the vessels of the iris and choroid, this latter tunic is very apt to participate in the inflammation. And, in addition, inflammation of adjacent structures, the cornea and sclerotic, is apt to spread into the iris. The iris is covered with epithelium, and partakes of the character of a serous membrane, and, like these structures, is liable to pour out a plastic exudation, when inflamed, and contract adhesions, either to the cornea in front (synechia anterior), or to the capsule of the lens behind {synechia i^osterior). In iritis the lens may become involved, and the condition known as secondary cataract may be set up. Tumours occasionally commence in the iris; of these, cysts, which are usually congenital and sarcomatous tumours, are the most common and require removal. Gummata are not unfrequently found in this situation. In some forms of injury of the eyeball, as the impact of a spent shot, the rebound of a twig, or a blow with a whip, the iris may be detached from the ciliary muscle, the amount of detachment varying from the slightest degree to separation of the whole iris from its ciliary connection.