SEPTUM CRURALE transversely, measures about half an inch, and it is larger in the female than in the male, which is one of the reasons of the greater frequency of femoral hernia in the former sex. Position o f parts around the ring.—The spermatic cord in the male, and round ligament in the female, lie immediately above the anterior margin of the femoral ring, and may be divided in an operation for femoral hernia if the incision for the relief of the stricture is not of limited extent. In the female this is of little importance, but in the male the spermatic artery and vas deferens may be divided. The femoral rem lies on the outer side of the ring. The deep epigastric artery, in its passage upwards and inwards from the external ♦iliac artery, passes across the upper and outer angle of the crural ring, and is consequently in danger of being wounded if the stricture is divided in a direction upwards and outwards. The coinmunicating branch between the deep epigastric and obturator lies in front of the ring. The circumference of the ring is thus seen to be bounded by vessels in every part, excepting internally and behind. It is in the former position that the stricture is divided in cases of strangulated femoral hernia. The obturator artery, when it arises by a common trunk with the deep epigastric, which occurs once in every three subjects and a half, bears a very important relation to the crural ring. In some cases it descends on the inner side of the external iliac vein to the obturator foramen, and will consequently lie on the outer side of the crural ring, where there is no danger of its being wounded in the operation for dividing the stricture in femoral hernia (see fig. 373, page 605, fig. A). Occasionally, however, the obturator artery curves along the free margin of Gimbernat's ligament in its passage to the obturator foramen ; it would, conse- quently, skirt along the greater part of the circumference of the crural ring, and could hardly avoid being wounded in the operation (see fig. 373, page 605, fig. B). Septum Crurale.—The femoral ring is closed by a layer of condensed areolar tissue, called, by J. Cloquet, tlie septum crurale. This serves as a barrier to the protrusion of a hernia through this part. Its upper surface is slightly concave, and supports a small lymphatic gland, by which it is separated from the subserous areolar tissue and peritoneum. Its under surface is turned towards the femoral canal. The septum crurale is perforated by numerous apertures for the passage of lymphatic vessels, connecting the deep inguinal lymphatic glands with those surrounding the external iliac artery. The size of the femoral canal, the degree of tension of its orifices, and, consequently, the degree of constriction of a hernia, vary according to the position of the limb. If the leg and thigh are extended, abducted, or everted, the femoral canal and its orifices are rendered tense, from the traction on these parts by Poupart's ligament and the fascia lata, as may be ascertained by passing the finger along the canal. If, on the contrary, the thigh is flexed upon the pelvis, and at the same time adducted and rotated inwards, the femoral canal and its orifices become considerably relaxed ; for this reason the limb should always be placed in the latter position when the application of the taxis is made in attempting the reduction of a femoral hernia. The subperitoneol areolar tissue is continuous with the subserous areolar tissue of surrounding parts. It is usually thickest and most fibrous where the iliac vessels leave the abdominal cavity. It covers over the small interval (crm^al ring) on the inner side of the femoral vein. In some subjects it contains a considerable amount of adipose tissue. In such cases, where it is protruded forwards in front of the sac of a femoral hernia, it may be mistaken for a portion of omentum. The peritoneum lining the portion of the abdominal wall between Poupart's ligament and the brim of the pelvis is similar to that lining any other portion of the abdominal wall, being very thin. It has here no natural aperture for the escape of intestine.