430 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE linea alba, and extends from the margin of the thorax to the os pubis. At the outer margin of the Rectus muscle, this aponeurosis, for the upper three-fourths of its extent, divides into two lamellae, which pass, one in front and the other behind the muscle, enclosing it in a kind of sheath, and reuniting on its inner border at the linea alba ; the anterior layer is blended with the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle ; the posterior layer with that of the Transversalis. Along the lower fourth, the aponeurosis passes altogether in front of the Rectus without any separation. Relations.—By its external surface, with the External oblique, Latissimus dorsi, spermatic cord, and external ring. By its internal surface, with the Trans- versalis muscle, the lower intercostal vessels and nerves, the ilio-hypogastric and the ilio-inguinal nerves. Near Poupart's ligament, it lies on the fascia transversalis, internal ring, and spermatic cord. Its lower border forms the upper boundary of the spermatic canal. The Cremaster muscle is a thin muscular layer, composed of a number of fasciculi which arise from the middle of Poupart's ligament at the inner side of the Internal oblique, being connected with that muscle, and also occasionally with the Transversalis. It passes along the outer side of the spermatic cord, descends with it through the external abdominal ring upon the front and sides of the cord, and forms a series of loops which differ in thickness and length in different subjects. Those at the upper part of the cord are exceedingly short, but they become in succession longer and longer, the longest reaching down as low as the testicle, where a few are inserted into the tunica vaginalis. These loops are united together by areolar tissue, and form a thin covering over the cord and testis, the fascia cremasterica. The fibres ascend along the inner side of the cord, and are inserted by a small pointed tendon into the crest of the os pubis and front of the sheath of the Rectus muscle. It will be observed that the origin and insertion of the Cremaster is precisely similar to that of the lower fibres of the Internal oblique. This fact affords an easy explanation of the manner in which the testicle and cord are invested by this muscle. At an early period of foetal life the testis is placed at the lower and back part of the abdominal cavity, but during its descent towards the scrotum, which takes place before birth, it passes beneath the arched fibres of the Internal oblique. In its passage beneath this muscle some fibres are derived from its lower part which accompany the testicle and cord into the scrotum. It occasionally happens that the loops of the Cremaster surround the cord, some lying behind as well as in front. It is probable that under these circumstances the testis, in its descent, passed through instead of beneath the fibres of the Internal oblique. In the descent of an oblique inguinal hernia, which takes the same course as the spermatic cord, the Cremaster muscle forms one of its coverings. This muscle becomes largely developed in cases of hydrocele and large old scrotal hernia. No such muscle exists in the female, but an analogous structure is developed in those cases where an oblique inguinal hernia descends beneath the margin of the Internal oblique. Dissection.—Detach the Internal oblique in order to expose the Transversalis beneath. This may be effected by dividing the muscle, above, at its attachment to the ribs ; below, at its connection with Poupart's ligament and the crest of the ilium ; and behind, by a vertical incision extending from the last rib to the crest of the ilium. The muscle should previously be made tense by drawing upon it with the fingers of the left. hand, and if its division is carefully effected, the cellular interval between it and the Transversalis, as well as the direction of the fibres of the latter muscle, will afford a clear guide to their separation ; along the crest of the ilium the circumflex iliac vessels are interposed between them, and form an important guide in separating them. The muscle should then be thrown forwards towards the linea alba. The Transversalis muscle (fig. 294), so called from the direction of its fibres, is the most internal flat muscle of the abdomen, being placed immediately beneath the Internal oblique. It arises by fleshy fibres from the outer third of Poupart's ligament; from the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, for its anterior three-