MUSCLES AND FASCIiE 448 the arms are fixed, all three muscles act uiDon the ribs, drawing them upwards and expanding the chest, and thus becoming very important agents in forced inspiration. Asthmatic patients always assume an attitude which fixes the shoulders, so that all these muscles may be brought into action to assist in dilating the cavity of the chest. Fig. 304.—Serratus magmis. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons of England.) SLIP OFSETRR.MAG.TO iSrRig Spine ofScapuZz. Lateral Thoracic Region Serratus magnus. The Serratus magnus (fig. 304) is a broad, thin, and irregularly quadrilateral muscle, situated at the upper part and side of the chest. It consists of two triangular or fan-shaped portions ; the upper one having the apex of the triangle at- tached to the first and second ribs, and the base to the upper angle and vertebral border of the scapula ; the lower with its apex behind attached to the inferior angle of the scapula, and its base in front connected with the ribs from the second to the eighth. It arises by nine fleshy digitations from the outer surface and upper border of the eight upper ribs (the second rib having two), and from the aponeurosis covering the upper intercostal muscles, and is inserted into the whole length of the anterior aspect of the posterior border of the scapula. The upper fan-shaped portion is attached to the fore part of the outer surfaces of the first and second ribs ; its fibres spread out, the upper ones forming a thick fasciculus, which passes upwards and backwards, and is attached to the triangular smooth surface on the an- terior aspect of the superior angle of the scapula ; the remaining fibres proceed back- wards and downwards to be attached to the posterior border of the scapula between the superior and inferior angles. The lower fan-shaped portion is attached posteriorly by its apex to the anterior surface of the inferior angle of the scapula, partly by muscular, partly by tendinous fibres ; it spreads out like a fan, the upper fibres pass- ing forwards and upwards, the lower hori- zontally forwards to be inserted into the outer surface of the fore part of the ribs from the second to the eighth, by a series of muscular digitations. In the intervals between the four lower of these are received corresponding processes of the External oblique. Relations.—TMs muscle is covered, in front, by the Pectoral muscles ; behind, by the Subscapularis ; above, by the axillary vessels and nerves. Its deep surface rests upon the ribs and Intercostal muscles. Nerves.—The Serratus magnus is supplied by the posterior thoracic nerve. Actions.—The Serratus magnus, as a whole, carries the scapula forwards, and at the same time raises the vertebral border of the bone. It is therefore concerned in the action of pushing. Its lower and stronger fibres move forwards the lower angle and assist the Trapezius in rotating the bone round an axis through its centre,