SPINAL NERVES 77° Each spinal nerve arises by two roots, an anterior or motor root, and a posterior or sensory root. EOOTS OF THE SpINAL NeRVES The Anterior Roots.—The sicperficial origin is from a somewhat irregular series of depressions, which map out a longitudinal area on the antero-lateral column of the spinal cord, gradually approaching towards the anterior median fissure as they descend. The deep origin can be traced to the anterior part of the antero-lateral column ; the roots, after penetrating horizontally through the longitudinal fibres of this tract, enter the grey substance, where their fibrils diverge in several directions: some, passing imvards, are continued across the anterior commissure in front of the central canal, to become continuous with the axis-cylinder processes of the large cells of the anterior cornua of the opposite side ; others terminate in the mesial group of cells of the anterior column of the same side; other fibrils pass outivards, some to become continuous with the axis-cylinder processes of the group of cells in the lateral part of the anterior column ; and others enter the lateral column of the same side, where, turning, upwards, they pursue their course as longitudinal fibres. The remaining fibrils pass backwards to the posterior horn, where they are continuous with the axis-cylinders of the cells at the base of the posterior cornu. The Posterior Roots.—The superficial origin is from the postero-lateral fissure of the cord. The deep origin is from the grey substance of the posterior cornu, either directly through the substantia gelatinosa, or indirectly, by first passing through the white matter of the posterior column and winding round in front of the caput cornu. Those which enter the grey matter at once, for the most part turn upwards and downwards, and become continuous with the fine nerve-plexus in the central portion of the grey matter ; some few fibres pass transversely through the posterior commissure to the opposite side, and others into the anterior cornu of the same side. Those fibres which enter the grey matter in front of the caput cornu reach the posterior vesicular column (Clarke's column) and blend with it; a few fibres passing through it, to become longitudinal in the posterior column of the cord. The anterior roots are smaller than the posterior, devoid of ganglionic enlarge- ment, and their component fibrils are collected into two bundles, near the inter- vertebral foramina. The posterior roots of the nerves are larger, but the individual filaments are finer and more delicate than those of the anterior. As their component fibrils pass outwards, towards the aperture in the dura mater, they coalesce into two bundles, receive a tubular sheath from that membrane, and enter the ganglion which is developed upon each root. The posterior root of the first cervical nerve forms an exception to these characters. It is smaller than the anterior, has frequently no ganglion developed upon it, and when the ganglion exists it is often situated within the dura mater. Ganglia of the Spinal Nerves A ganglion is developed upon the posterior root of each of the spinal nerves. These ganglia are of an oval form, and of a reddish colour ; they bear a proportion in size to the nerves upon which they are formed, and are placed in the inter- vertebral foramina, external to the point where the nerves perforate the dura mater. Each ganglion is bifid internally, where it is joined by the two bundles of the posterior root, the two portions being united into a single mass externally. The ganglion upon the first and second cervical nerves forms an exception to these characters, being placed on the arches of the vertebrae over which the nerves pass. The ganglia, also, of the sacral nerves are placed within the spinal canal; and that on the coccygeal nerve, also in the canal, about the middle of its posterior root.