ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION 988 The bronchial vein is formed at the root of the lung, receiving superficial and deep veins corresponding to branches of the bronchial artery. It does not, however, receive all the blood supplied by the artery, as some of it passes into the pulmonary vein. It terminates on the right side in the vena azygos major, and on the left side in the superior intercostal vein. The lymphatics consist of a superficial and deep set: they terminate at the root of the lung, in the bronchial glands. Nerves.—The lungs are supplied from the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses, formed chiefly by branches from the sympathetic and pneumogastric. The filaments from these plexuses accompany the bronchial tubes, upon which they are lost. Small ganglia are found upon these nerves. Surface Form.—The apex of the lung is situated in the neck, behind the interval between the two heads of origin of the Sterno-mastoid. The height to which it rises above the clavicle varies very considerably, but is generally about one inch. It may, however, extend as much as an inch and a half or an inch and three-quarters, or, on the other hand, it may scarcely' project above the level of this bone. In order to mark out the anterior margin of the lung, a line is to be drawn from the apex point, one inch above the level of the clavicle, and rather nearer the posterior than the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, downwards and inwards across the sterno-clavicular articulation and first piece of the sternum until it meets, or almost meets, its fellow of the other side opposite the articulation of tlie manubrium and gladiolus. From this point the two lines are to be drawn downwards, one on either side of the mesial line and close to it, as far as the level of the articulation of the fourth costal cartilages to the sternum. From here the two lines diverge, the left is to be drawn at first passing outwards with a slight inclination down- wards, and then taking a bend downwards with a slight inclination outwards to the apex of the heart, and thence to the sixth costo-chondral articulation. The direction of the anterior border of this part of the left lung is denoted with sufficient accuracy by a curved line, with its convexity directed upwards and outwards from the articulation of the fourth right costal cartilage of the sternum to the fifth intercostal space, an inch and a half below, and three-quarters of an inch internal to the left nipple. The continuation of the anterior border of the right lung is marked by a prolongation of its line from the level of the fourth costal cartilages vertically downwards as far as the sixth, when it slopes off along the line of the sixth costal cartilage to its articulation with the rib. The lower border of the lung is marked out by a slightly curved line, with its convexity downwards from the articulation of the sixth costal cartilage to its rib to the spinous process of the tenth dorsal vertebra. If vertical lines are drawn downwards from the nipple, the mid-axillary line and the apex of the scapula, while the arms are raised from the sides, they should intersect this convex line, the first at the sixth, the second at the eighth, and the third at the tenth rib. It will thus be seen that the pleura (see page 980) extends farther down than the lung, so that it may be wounded, and a wound pass through its cavity into the Diaphragm, and even injure the abdominal viscera without the lung being mvolved. The posterior border of the lung is indicated by a line drawn from the level of the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra, down either side of the spine, correspond- ing to the costo-vertebral joints as low as the spinous process of the tenth dorsal vertebra. The trachea bifurcates opposite the spinous process of the fourth dorsal vertebra, and from this point the two bronchi are directed outwards, the right one almost horizontally, the left with a considerable inclination downwards. The position of the great fissure in the right lung may be indicated by a line drawn from the fourth dorsal vertebra round the side of the chest to the anterior margin of the lung opposite the seventh rib, and tlie smaller or secondary fissure by a line drawn from the preceding where it bisects the mid-axillary line to the junction of the fourth costal cartilage to the sternum. The great fissure in the left lung is a little higher, extending from the third dorsal vertebra round the side of the chest to reach the anterior margin of the lung opposite the sixth costal cartilage. Surgical Anatomy.—The lungs may be wounded or torn in three ways, (i) By com- pression of the chest, without any injury to the ribs. (2) By a fractured rib penetrating the lung. (3) By stabs, gunshot wounds, etc. The first form, where the lung is ruptured by external compression without any fracture of the ribs, is very rare, and usually occurs in young children, and affects the root of the lung, i.e. the most fixed part, and thus, implicating the great vessels, is frequently fatal. It would seem a jjriori a most unusual injury, and its exact mode of causation is difficult to interpret. The probable explanation is that immediately before the compression is applied a deep inspiration is taken and the lungs are fully inflated owing then to spasm of the glottis at the moment of compression, the air is unable to escape from the lung, which is not able to recede, and consequently gives way. In the second variety, when the wound in the lung is produced by the penetration of a broken rib, both the pleura costalis and pulmonalis must necessarily be injured, and