259 FEMUR outer surface of the shaft; it is marked by a rough, prominent, shghtly curved ridge, which gives attachment to the upper part of the Vastus externus muscle. The anterior border is prominent, somewhat irregular, as well as the surface of bone immediately below it; it affords attachment at its outer part to the Gluteus minimus. The ijosterior border is very prominent, and appears as a free, rounded edge, which forms the back part of the digital fossa. The Lesser Trochanter is a conical eminence, which varies in size in different subjects; it projects from the lower and back part of the base of the neck. Its base is triangular, and connected with the adjacent parts of the bone by three well-marked borders: two of these are above—the internal continuous with the lower border of the neck, the externcd with the posterior intertrochanteric line— while the inferior border is continuous with the middle division of the linea aspera. Its summit, which is directed inwards and backwards, is rough, and gives insertion to the tendon of the Psoas magnus. The Iliacus is inserted into the shaft below the lesser trochanter, between the Vastus internus in front and the Pectineus behind. A well-marked prominence, of variable size, which projects from the upper and front part of the neck, at its junction with the great trochanter, is called the tubercle of the femur; it is the point of meeting of five muscles : the Gluteus minimus externally, the Vastus externus below, and the tendon of the Obturator internus and Gemelli above. Running obliquely downwards and inwards from the tubercle is the S2J^m^ line of the femur, or anterior intertrochanteric line', it winds round the inner side of the shaft, below the lesser trochanter, and termi- nates in the linea aspera, about two inches below this eminence. Its upper half is rough, and affords attachment to the capsular ligament of the hip-joint; its lower half is less prominent, and gives attachment to the upper part of the Vastus internus. Running obliquely downwards and inwards from the summit of the great trochanter on the posterior surface of the neck is a very prominent, well- marked ridge, the posterior intertrochanteric line. Its upper half forms the posterior border of the great trochanter, and its lower half runs downwards and inwards across the neck of the bone to the upper and back part of the lesser trochanter. A slight ridge sometimes commences about the middle of the posterior intertrochanteric line, and passes vertically downwards for about two inches along the back part of the shaft : it is called the linea quadrata, and gives attachment to the Quadratus femoris and a few fibres of the Adductor magnus muscles.* The Shaft, almost cylindrical in form, is a little broader above than in the centre, and somewhat flattened below, from before backwards. It is slightly arched, so as to be convex in front and concave behind, where it is strengthened by a prominent longitudinal ridge, the linect aspera. It presents for examination three borders, separating three surfaces. Of the three borders, one, the linea aspera, is posterior; the other two are placed laterally. The linea aspera (fig. 214) is a prominent longitudinal ridge or crest, on the middle third of the bone, presenting an external lip, an internal lip, and a rough intermediate space. Above, this crest is prolonged by three ridges. The most external one is very rough, and is continued almost vertically upwards to the base of the great trochanter. It is sometimes termed the gluteal ridge, and gives attach- ment to part of the Gluteus maximus muscle; its upper part is often elongated into a roughened crest, on which is a more or less well-marked, rounded tubercle, a rudimental third trochanter. The middle ridge, the least distinct, is continued to the base of the trochanter minor ; and the internal one is lost above in the spiral line of the femur. Below, the linea aspera is prolonged by two ridges, which enclose between them a triangular space, the popliteal space, upon which rests the popliteal artery. Of these two ridges, the outer one is the more prominent, and descends to the summit of the outer condyle. The inner one is less marked, * Generally there is merely a slight thickening about the centre of the intertrochanteric line, marking the point of attachment of the Quadratus femoris. This is termed by some anatomists the tiLbercle of the Quadratus. S 2