OF THE HAND 473 the fibres, proceeding outwards, converge, to be inserted, with the inner tendon of the Flexor brevis polhcis, and the Adductor obhquus pollicis, into the ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. From the common tendon of insertion a slip is prolonged to the Extensor longus pollicis. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Adductor obliquus pollicis, the tendons of the Flexor profundus, and the Lumbricales. Its deep surface covers the first two interosseous spaces, from which it is separated by a strong aponeurosis. Three of these muscles of the thumb, the Abductor, the Adductor transversus, and the Flexor brevis pollicis, at their insertions, give off fibrous expansions which join the tendon of the Extensor longus pollicis. This permits of flexion of the proximal phalanx and extension of the terminal phalanx at the same time. These expansions, originally figured by Albinus, have been more recently described by M. Duchenne, ' Physiologie des Mouvements,' page 299. Nerves.—The Abductor, Opponens, and outer head of the Flexor brevis pollicis are supplied by the median nerve ; the inner head of the Flexor brevis, and the Adductors, by the ulnar nerve. Actions.—The actions of the muscles of the thumb are almost sufficiently indi- cated by their names. This segment of the hand is provided with three extensors —an extensor of the metacarpal bone, an extensor of the first, and an extensor of the second phalanx; these occupy the dorsal surface of the forearm and hand. There are also three flexors on the palmar surface—a flexor of the metacarpal bone, a flexor of the proximal, and a flexor of the terminal phalanx ; there is also an Abductor and two Adductors. The Abductor pollicis moves the metacarpal bone of the thumb outwards, that is, away from the index finger. The Flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis flexes the metacarpal bone, that is, draws it inwards over the palm, and at the same time rotates the bone, so as to turn the ball of the thumb towards the fingers, thus producing the movement of opposition. The Flexor brevis pollicis flexes the proximal phalanx of the thumb. The Adductores pollicis move the metacarpal bone of the thumb inwards, that is, towards the index finger. These muscles give to the thumb its extensive range of motion. It will be noticed, however, that in consequence of the position of the first meta- carpal bone, these movements differ from the corresponding movements of the metacarpal bones of the other fingers. Thus extension of the thumb more nearly corresponds to the motion of abduction in the other fingers, and flexion to adduction. Ulnae Region (fig. 316) Palmaris brevis. Muscles of the Little Finger Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Opponens (Flexor ossis metacarpi) minimi digiti. The Palmaris brevis is a thin quadrilateral muscle, placed beneath the integu- ment on the ulnar side of the hand. It arises by tendinous fasciculi, from the annular ligament and palmar fascia ; the fleshy fibres pass inwards, to be inserted into the skin on the inner border of the palm of the hand. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the integument, to which it is intimately adherent,.especially by its inner extremity. By its deep surface, with the inner portion of the palmar fascia ; which separates it from the ulnar vessels and nerve, and from the muscles of the ulnar side of the hand. The Abductor minimi digiti is situated on the ulnar border of the palm of the hand. It arises from the pisiform bone, and terminates in a flat tendon, which divides into two slips ; one passes under the lateral expansion of the extensor tendon, opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, and is inserted into the ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. The other slip passes over the expansion, and is inserted into the ulnar border of the shaft of the same phalanx.