OF THE DIPLOE 637 The pharyngeal vein commences in a minute plexus, the pharyngeal, at the back part and sides of the pharynx, and, after receiving meningeal tributaries, and the Vidian and spheno-palatine veins, terminates in the internal jugular. It occasionally opens into the facial, lingual, or superior thyroid vein. The superior thyroid vein commences in the substance and on the surface of the thyroid gland, by tributaries corresponding with the branches of the superior thyroid artery, and terminates in the upper part of the internal jugular vein. The middle thyroid vein collects the blood from the lov^^er part of the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, and, being joined by some veins from the larynx and trachea, terminates in the lower part of the internal jugular vein. The facial and occipital veins have been described above. Surgical Anatomy.—The internal jugular vein occasionally requires ligature in cases of septic thrombosis of the lateral sinus from suppuration in the middle ear, in order to prevent embolism of the thoracic viscera. This operation has been performed recently in several cases, with the most satisfactory results. The cases are generally those of chronic disease of the middle ear, with discharge of pus which perhaps has existed for many years. The patient is seized with acute septic inflammation, spreading to the mastoid cells, and consequent on this septic thrombosis of the lateral sinus extending to the internal jugular vein. Such cases are always extremely grave, for there is a danger of a portion of the septic clot being detached and causing septic embolism in the thoracic viscera. This may be mechanically prevented by ligature of the internal jugular vein in the middle of the neck. The operation is a comparatively simple one, and may be performed by an incision similar to that emploj^ed in ligature of the common carotid artery. The Vertebral Vein commences in the occipital region, by numerous small tributaries, from the deep muscles at the upper and back part of the neck ; these pass outwards and enter the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, and descend, forming a dense plexus around the vertebral artery, in the canal formed by the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. This plexus unites at the lower part of the neck into two main trunks, one of which emerges from the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and the others through that of the seventh, and, uniting, form a single vessel, which terminates at the root of the neck in the back part of the innominate vein near its origin, its mouth being- guarded by a pair of valves. On the right side, it crosses the first part of the subclavian artery. Tributaries.—The vertebral vein receives in its course a vein from the inside of the skull through the posterior condyloid foramen ; muscular veins, from the muscles in the prevertebral region; dorsi-spinal veins, from the back part of the cervical portion of the spine; meningo-rachidian veins, from the interior of the spinal canal; the anterior and posterior vertebral veins ; and close to its termina- tion it is joined by a small vein from the first intercostal space which accompanies the superior intercostal artery. The anterior vertebral vein commences in a plexus around the transverse processes of the upper cervical vertebrae, descends in company with the ascending cervical artery between the Scalenus anticus and Rectus capitis anticus major muscles, and opens into the vertebral vein just before its termination. The posterior vertebral vein (the deep cervical) accompanies the profunda cervicis artery, lying between the Complexus and Semispinalis colli. It commences in the suboccipital region by communicating branches from the occipital vein and tributaries from the deep muscles at the back of the neck. If receives tribu- taries from the plexuses around the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae, and terminates in the lower end of the vertebral vein. Veins of the Diploe The diploe of the cranial bones is channelled in the adult by a number of tortuous canals, which are lined by a more or less complete layer of compact tissue. The veins they contain are large and capacious, their walls being thin, and formed only of endothelium resting upon a layer of elastic tissue, and they pre- sent, at irregular intervals, pouch-like dilatations, or culs-de-sac, which serve as