ARTERIES 6io the bifurcation of the common iliac to Poupart's ligament, Avhere it enters the thigh and becomes the femoral artery. Relations.—In front, with the peritonemn, subperitoneal areolar tissue, the intestines, and a thin layer of fascia, derived from the iliac fascia, which surrounds the artery and vein. At its origin it is occasionally crossed by the ureter. The spermatic vessels descend for some distance upon it near its termination, and it is crossed in this situation by the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve and the circumflex iliac vein ; the vas deferens curves down along its inner side. Behind, it is in relation with the external iliac vein, which, at Poupart's ligament, lies at its inner side ; on the left side the vein is altogether internal to the artery. Externallii, it rests against the Psoas muscle, from which it is separated by the iliac fascia. The artery rests upon this muscle, near Poupart's ligament. Numerous lymphatic vessels and glands are found lying on the front and inner side of the vessel. Plan of the Relations of the External Iliac Aeteky In front. Peritoneum, intestines, and fascia. Near [ Spermatic vessels. Poupart's ] Genito-cniral nerve (genital brauch). Ligament. j Circumflex iliac vein. ' Lymphatic vessels and glands. Ou ter side. Psoas magnus. Iliac fascia. Inner side. External iliac vein and vas deferens at femoral arch. Beliind. External iliac vein. Psoas magnus. Surface Marhing.—The surface line indicating the course of the external iliac artery has been already given (see page 600). Surgical Anatomy.—The application of a ligature to the external iliac may be required in cases of aneurism of the femoral artery, or for a wound of the artery. This vessel may be secured in any part of its course, excepting near its upper end, which is to be avoided on account of the proximity of the great stream of blood in the internal iliac, and near its lower end, which should also be avoided, on account of the proximity of the epigastric and circumflex iliac vessels. One of the chief pomts in the performance of the operation is to secure the vessel without injury to the peritoneum. The patient having been placed in the recumbent joosition, an incision should be made, commencing below at a point about three-quarters of an inch above Poupart's ligament, and a little external to its middle, and running upwards and outwards, parallel to Poupart's ligament, to a point above the anterior superior spine of the ilium. When the artery is deeply seated, more room will be required, and may be obtained by curving the incision from the point last named inwards towards the umbilicus for a short distance ; or, if the lower part of the artery is to be reached, the surgeon may adopt the plan advocated by Sir Astley Cooper, by making an incision close to Poupart's ligament from about half an inch outside the external abdominal ring to one inch internal to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. This incision, being made in the course of the fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique, is less likely to be followed by a ventral hernia, but there is danger of wounding the epigastric artery. Abernethy, who first tied this artery, made his incision in the course of the vessel. The abdominal muscles and transversalis fascia having been cautiously divided, the peritonemn should be separated from the iliac fossa and raised towards the pelvis; and on introducing the finger to the bottom of the wound the artery may be felt pulsating along the inner border of the Psoas muscle. The external iliac vein is generally found on the inner side of the artery, and must be cautiously separated from it by the finger-nail, or handle of the knife, and the aneurism needle should be introduced on the inner side, between the artery and vein. Ligature of the external iliac artery has recently been performed in three or more cases by a transperitoneal method. An incision foin^ inches in length is made in the semilunar line, commencing about an inch below the umbilicus, and carried through the abdominal wall into the peritoneal cavity. The intestines are then pushed upwards and held out of