CALCANEUM 273 THE FOOT (figs. 224, 225) The skeleton of the Foot consists of three divisions : the Tarsus, Metatarsus, and Phalanges. The Tarsus The bones of the Tarsus are seven in number: viz. the calcaneum or os calcis, astragalus, cuboid, navicular, internal, middle, and external cuneiform bones. The Calcaneum The Calcaneum, or Os Calcis (calx, the heel), is the largest and strongest of the tarsal bones. It is irregularly cuboidal in form, having its long axis directed forwards and outwards. It is situated at the lower and back part of the foot, serving to transmit the weight of the body to the ground, and forming a strong- lever for the muscles of the calf. It presents for examination six surfaces: superior, inferior, external, internal, anterior, and posterior. The superior surface is formed behind by the upper aspect of that part of the OS calcis which projects backwards to form the heel. It varies in length in different individuals; is convex from side to side, concave from before backwards, and corresponds above to a mass of adipose substance placed in front of the tendo Achillis. In the middle of the superior surface are two (sometimes three) articular facets, separated by a broad shallow groove, which is directed obliquely forwards and outwards, and is rough for the attachment of the interosseous ligament connecting the astragalus and os calcis. Of the two articular surfaces, the external is the larger, and situated on the body of the bone : it is of an oblong form, wider behind than in front, and convex from before backwards. The internal articular surface is supported on a projecting process of bone, called the lesser process of the calcaneum {sustentaculmn tali); it is also oblong, concave longitudinally, and sometimes subdivided into two parts, which differ in size and shape. More anteriorly is seen the upper surface of the greater irrocess, marked by a rough depression for the attachment of numerous ligaments, and a tubercle for the origin of the Extensor brevis digitorum muscle. The inferior surface is narrow, rough, uneven, wider behind than in front, and convex from side to side; it is bounded posteriorly by two tubercles, separated by a rough depression; the external, small, prominent, and rounded, gives attach- ment to part of the Abductor minimi digiti; the internal, broader and larger, for the support of the heel, gives attachment, by its prominent inner margin, to the Abductor hallucis, and in front to the Flexor brevis digitorum muscles ; the depression between the tubercles gives attachment to the Abductor minimi digiti and plantar fascia. The rough surface in front oi the tubercles gives attachment to the long plantar ligament, and to the outer head of the Flexor accessorius muscle ; and to a prominent tubercle nearer the anterior part of this surface, as well as to a transverse groove in front of it, is attached the short plantar ligament. The external surface is broad, flat, and almost subcutaneous; it presents near its centre a tubercle, for the attachment of the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. At its upper and anterior part, this surface gives attachment to the external calcaneo-astragaloid ligament; and in front of the tubercle it presents a narrow surface marked by two oblique grooves, separated by an elevated ridge which varies much in size in different bones ; it is named the peroneal ridge, and gives attachment to a fibrous process from the external annular ligament. The superior groove transmits the tendon of the Peroneus brevis ; the inferior, the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The internal surface presents a deep concavity, directed obliquely downwards and forwards, for the transmission of the plantar vessels and nerves into the sole of the foot; it affords attachment to part of the Flexor accessorius muscle. This surface presents an eminence of bone, the lesser process or sustentaculum tali, T