ARTERIES 624 side, and about the middle of the leg is placed suiDerficial to it; at the lower part of the artery the nerve is generally again on the outer side. Plan of the Relations of the Anteeior Tiblil Artery In front. Integument, superficial and deep fasciae. Anterior tibial nerve. Tibialis anticus (overlaps it in the upper part of the leg). Extensor longus digitorum ~1 , . -x t wi \ -r, , • r n • r (overlap it slightly). Extensor proprius hailucis f ^ ^ o j/ Anterior annular ligament. Inner side. / \ Outer side. Tibialis anticus. / \ Anterior tibial nerve. Extensor proprius hailucis ^fbili^^' Extensor longus digitorum (crosses it at its lower \ ' ' Extensor proprius hailucis. part). \ / Behind. Interosseous membrane. Tibia. Anterior ligament of ankle-joint. Pecnliarities in Size.—This vessel may be diminished in size, may be deficient to a greater or less extent, or may be entirely wanting, its place being supplied by perforating branches from the posterior tibial^ or by the anterior division of the peroneal artery. Course.—The artery occasionally deviates in its course towards the fibular side of the leg, regaining its usual position beneath the annular ligament at the front of the ankle. In two instances the vessel has been foimd to approach the surface in the middle of the leg, being covered merely by the integument and fascia below that point. Surface Marhing.—A line drawn from the inner side of the head of the fibula to midway between the two malleoli, will mark the course of the artery ; the point where the artery comes in front of the interosseous membrane being in this line, one and a quarter inch below the level of the head of the fibula. Surgical Anatomy.—The anterior tibial artery may be tied in the upper or lower part of the leg. In the upper part the operation is attended with great difficulty, on account of the depth of the vessel from the surface. An incision, about four inches in length, should be made through the integmnent, midway between the spine of the tibia and the outer margin of the fibula, the fascia and intermuscular septum between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum being divided to the same extent. The foot must be flexed to relax these muscles, and they must be separated from each other by the finger. The artery is then exposed, deeply seated, lying upon the interosseous membrane, the nerve lying externally, and one of the venae comites on either side ; these must be separated from the artery before the aneurism needle is passed round it. To tie the vessel in the lower third of the leg above the ankle-joint, an incision about three inches in length should be made through the integument between the tendons of the Tibialis anticus and Extensor proprius hailucis muscles, the deep fascia being divided to the same extent. The tendon on either side should be held aside, when the vessel will be seen lying upon the tibia, with the nerve superficial to it, and one of the venae comites on either side. The branches of the anterior tibial artery are, the Posterior Recurrent Tibial. Muscular. Superior Fibular. Internal Malleolar. Anterior Recurrent Tibial External Malleolar. The posterior recurrent tibial is not a constant branch, and is given oft' from the anterior tibial before that vessel passes through the interosseous space. It ascends beneath the Popliteus muscle, which it supplies, and anastomoses with the lower articular branches of the popliteal artery, giving off an offset to the superior tibio-fibular joint. The superior fibular is sometimes given off from the anterior tibial, sometimes from the posterior tibial. It passes outwards, round the neck of the fibula, through the Soleus, which it sup^Dlies, and ends in the substance of the Peroneus longus muscle.