397 PHARYNGEAL REGION ascending and overlapping tlie Superior constrictor. The muscle is inserted into the posterior median fibrous raphe, blending in the middle line with the one of the opposite side. Relations.—This muscle is separated from the Superior constrictor by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the Stylo-pharyngeus muscle ; and from the Inferior constrictor by the superior laryngeal nerve. Behind, it lies on the vertebral column, the Longus colli, and the Rectus capitis anticus major. On each side it is in relation with the carotid vessels, the pharyngeal plexus, and some lymphatic glands. Near its origin, it is covered by the Hyo-glossus, from which it is separated by the lingual vessels. It lies upon the Superior constrictor, the Stylo-pharyngeus, the Palato-pharyngeus, the fibrous coat, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The Superior constrictor is a quadrilateral muscle, thinner and paler than the other constrictors, and situated at the upper part of the pharynx. It arises from the lower third of the posterior margin of the internal pterygoid plate and its hamular process, from the contiguous portion of the palate bone and the reflected tendon of the Tensor palati muscle, from the pterygo-maxillary ligament, from the alveolar process above the posterior extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge, and by a few fibres from the side of the tongue. From these points the fibres curve back- wards, to be inserted into the median raphe, being also prolonged by means of a fibrous aponeurosis to the pharyngeal spine on the basilar process of the occipital bone. The superior fibres arch beneath the Levator palati and the Eustachian tube, the interval between the upper border of the muscle and the basilar process being deficient in muscular fibres, and closed by fibrous membrane. This interval is known as the sinus of Morgagni. Relations.—By its outer surface, with the vertebral column, the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves, the Middle constrictor which overlaps it, and the Stylo-pharyngeus. By its internal surface, with the Palato- pharyngeus, the tonsil, the fibrous coat and mucous membrane of the pharynx. The Stylo-pharyngeus is a long, slender muscle, round above, broad and thin below. It arises from the inner side of the base of the styloid process, passes downwards along the side of the pharynx between the Superior and Middle- constrictors, and spreads out beneath the mucous membrane, where some of its fibres are lost in the Constrictor muscles ; and others, joining with the Palato- pharyngeus, are inserted into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. The glosso-jpharyngeal nerve runs on the outer side of this muscle, and crosses over it in passing forward to the tongue. Relations.—Externally, with the Stylo-glossus muscle, the parotid gland, the external carotid artery, and the Middle constrictor. Internally, with the internal carotid, the internal jugular vein, the Superior constrictor, Palato-pharyngeus and mucous membrane. Nerves.—The Constrictors are supplied by branches from the pharyngeal plexus, the Stylo-pharyngeus by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the Inferior constrictor by an additional branch from the external laryngeal nerve, and by the recurrent laryngeal. Actions.—When deglutition is about to be performed, the pharynx is drawn upwards and dilated in different directions, to receive the morsel propelled into it from the mouth. The Stylo-pharyngei, which are much farther removed from one another at their origin than at their insertion, draw the sides of the pharynx upwards and outwards, and so increase its transverse diameter; its breadth in the antero-posterior direction being increased by the larynx and tongue being carried forwards in their ascent. As soon as the morsel is received in the pharynx, the Elevator muscles relax, the bag descends, and the Constrictors contract upon the morsel, and convey it gradually downwards into the oesophagus. Besides its action in deglutition, the pharynx also exerts an important influence in the modulation of the voice, especially in the production of the higher tones.