128 THE SKELETON Lastly, on each side of the large oval articular surface is a broad and flat triangular surface of bone, which extends outwards, supports the Psoas magnus muscle and lumbo-sacral cord, and is continuous on each side with the iliac fossa. This is called the ala of the sacrum, and gives attachment to a few of the fibres of the Iliacus muscle. The Apex, directed downwards and forwards, presents a small, oval, concave surface for articulation with the coccyx. The Spinal Canal runs throughout the greater part of the bone ; it is large and triangular in form above, small and flattened, from before backwards, below. In this situation its posterior wall is incomplete, from the non-development of the laminae and spinous processes. It lodges the sacral nerves, and is perforated by the anterior and posterior sacral foramina, through which these pass out. Structure.—It consists of much loose, spongy tissue within, invested externally by a thin layer of compact tissue. Differences in the Sacrum of the Male and Female.—The sacrum in the female is usually wider than in the male ; the lower half forms a greater angle with the upper; the upper half of the bone being nearly straight, the lower half pre- senting the greatest amount of curvature. The bone is also directed more obliquely backwards, which increases the size of the pelvic cavity ; but the sacro-vertebral angle projects less. In the male the curvature is more evenly distributed over the whole length of the bone, and is altogether greater than in the female. Peculiarities of the Sacrum.—This bone, in some cases, consists of six pieces ; occasionally, the number is reduced to four. Sometimes the bodies of the first and second segments are not joined, or the laminaB and spinous processes have not coalesced. Occasionally, the upper pair of transverse tubercles are not joined to the rest of the bone on one or both sides; and, lastly, the sacral canal may be open for nearly the lower half of the bone, in consequence of the imperfect development of the laminae and spinous processes. The sacrum, also, varies con- siderably with respect to its degree of curvature. From the examination of a large number of skeletons, it would appear that, in one set of cases, the anterior surface of this bone was nearly straight, the cmwature, which was very slight, affecting only its lower end. In another set of cases, the bone was curved throughout its whole length, but especially towards its middle. In a third set, the degree of curvature was less marked, and affected especially the loAver third of the bone. Development (fig. 125).—The sacrum, formed by the union of five vertebrae, has thirty-five centres of ossification. The bodies of the sacral vertebrae have each three ossific centres : one for the central part, and one for the epiphysial plates on its upper and under surface. Occasionally the primary centres for the bodies of the first and second piece of the sacrum are double. The arch of each sacral vertebra is developed by two centres, one for each lamina. These unite with each other behind, and subsequently join the body. The lateral masses have six additional centres, two for each of the first three vertebrae. These centres make their appearance above and to the outer side of the anterior sacral foramina (fig. 125), and are developed into separate segments (fig. 126) ; they are subsequently blended with each other, and with the bodies and transverse processes, to form the lateral mass. Lastly, each lateral surface of the sacrum is developed by two epiphysial plates (fig. 127) : one for the auricular surface, and one for the remaining part of the thin lateral edge of the bone. Period of Development.—At about the eighth or ninth week of foetal life, ossi- fication of the central part of the bodies of the first three vertebrje commences; and, at a somewhat later period, that of the last two. Between the sixth and eighth months ossification of the laminae takes place ; and at about the same period, the characteristic osseous tubercles for the first three sacral vertebrae make their appearance. The period at which the arch becomes completed by the junction of the laminae with the bodies in front, and with each other behind, varies in different