650 VEINS intercostal. It receives veins from the intercostal spaces between the left superior intercostal vein and highest tributary of the left lower azygos. They are usually two or three in number, and join to form a trunk which ends in the right azygos vein, or in the left lower azygos. It sometimes receives the left bronchial vein. When this vein is small, or altogether wanting, the left superior intercostal vein will extend as low as the fifth or sixth intercostal space.* Surgical Anatomy.—In obstruction of the inferior vena cava, the azj^gos veins are one of the principal means by which the venous circulation is carried on, connecting as they do the superior and inferior venae cavae and communicating with the common iliac veins by the ascending lumbar veins and with many of the tributaries of the inferior vena cava. The bronchial veins return the blood from the substance of the lungs ; that of the right side opens into the vena azygos major, near its termination ; that of the left side, into the left superior intercostal vein or left upper azygos vein. The Spinal Veins The numerous venous plexuses placed upon and within the spine may be arranged into four sets. Fig. 389.—Transverse section of a dorsal vertebra, showing the spinal veins. 1. Those placed on the exterior of the spinal column (the dorsi-sjnnal veins). 2. Those situated in the interior of the spinal canal, between the vertebrae and the theca vertebralis {meningo-rachidian veins). 3. The veins of the bodies of the vertebrae {vence basis vertebrarum). 4. The veins of the spinal cord {medulli-spinal). I. The Dorsi-spinal Veins commence by small branches, which receive their blood from the integument of the back of the spine, and from the muscles in the vertebral grooves. They form a complicated network, which surrounds the spinous processes, the laminae, and the transverse and articular processes of all the vertebrae. At the bases of the transverse processes, they communicate, by means of ascending and descending branches, with the veins surrounding the contiguous * For an account of the arrangement of the azygos and superior intercostal veins in a number of consecutive cases from the same dissecting-room, see a paper by Mr. B. G. Morison, Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. xiii. p. 346. The most important difference between his description and that in the text is, that he always found two superior intercostal veins on both sides; the vein from the first space being separate, and joining the corresponding innominate vein. The lower (and larger) superior intercostal vein he describes as opening into the azygos on the right, and innominate on the left side.