AKTERIES 534 The ranine may be regarded as the other branch of bifurcation, or, as is more usual, as the continuation of the lingual artery ; it runs along the under surface of the tongue, resting on the Inferior lingualis, and covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth ; it lies on the outer side of the Genio-hyo-giossus, accompanied by the lingual nerve. On arriving at the tip of the tongue, it has been said to anastomose with the artery of the opposite side ; but this is denied by Hyrtl. These vessels in the mouth are placed one on each side of the frgenum. Surgical Anatomy.—The lingual artery may be divided near its origin in eases of cut throat, a complication that not unfrequently happens in this class of wounds ; or severe haemorrhage which cannot be restrained by ordinary means, may ensue from a womid, or deep ulcer, of the tongue. In the former case, the primary wound may be enlarged if necessary, and the bleeding vessel secm^ed. In the latter case, it has been suggested that the lingual artery should be tied near its origin. Ligature of the lingual artery is also occasionally practised, as a palliative measure, in cases of cancer of the tongue, in order to check the progress of the disease by starving the growth, and it is sometimes tied, as a preliminary measure to removal of the tongue. The operation is a ditticult one, on account of the depth of the artery, the number of important parts by which it is sur- rounded, the loose and yielding nature of the parts upon which it is supported, and its occasional irregularity of origin. An incision is to be made in a curved direction from a finger's breadth external to the symphysis of the jaw downwards to the cornu of the hyoid bone, and then upwards to near the angle of the jaw. Care must be taken not to carry this incision too far backwards, for fear of endangering the facial vein. In the first incision the skin, superficial fascia, and Platysma will be divided, and the deep fascia exposed. This is then to be incised and the submaxillary gland exposed and pulled upwards by retractors. A. triangular space is now exposed, bounded internally by the posterior border of the Mylo-hyoid muscle ; below and externally, by the tendon of the Digastric ; and above, by the hypoglossal nerve. The floor of the space is formed by the Hyo-glossus muscle, l3eneath which the artery lies. The fibres of this muscle are now to be cut through horizontally, and the vessel exposed, care being taken, while near the vessel, not to open the pharynx. Troublesome haemorrhage may occur in the division of the fraenum in children, if the ranine artery, which lies on each side of it, is wounded. The student should remember that the operation is always to be performed with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, and the mucous membrane only is to be divided by a very superficial cut, which cannot endanger any vessel. The scissors, also, should be directed away from the tongue. Any fiirther liberation of the tongue which may be necessary can be effected by tearing. The Facial Artery (fig. 349) arises a little above the lingual, and passes obliquely upwards, beneath the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles; it then runs forwards under cover of the body of the lower jaw, lodged in a groove on the posterior surface of the submaxillary gland; this may be called the cervical part of the artery. It then curves upwards over the body of the jaw at the anterior inferior angle of the Masseter muscle ; passes forwards and upwards across the cheek to the angle of the mouth, then upwards along the side of the nose, and terminates at the inner canthus of the eye, under the name of the angular artery. This vessel, both in the neck and on the face, is remarkably tortuous : in the former situation, to accommodate itself to the movements of the pharynx in deglutition ; and in the latter, to the movements of the jaw, and the lips and cheeks. Relations.—In the neck, its origin is superficial, being covered by the integument, Platysma, and fascia; it then passes beneath the Digastric and Stylo- hyoid muscles, and the submaxillary gland. On the face, where it passes over the body of the lower jaw, it is comparatively superficial, lying immediately beneath the Platysma. In this situation its pulsation may be distinctly felt, and com- pression of the vessel effectually made against the bone. In its course over the face, it is covered by the integument, the fat of the cheek, and, near the angle of the mouth, by the Platysma, Eisorius, and Zygomatic muscles. It rests on the Buccinator, the Levator anguli oris, and the Levator labii superioris (sometimes piercing or else passing under this last muscle). It is accompanied by the facial vein throughout its entire course ; the vein is not tortuous like the artery, and, on the face, is separated from that vessel by a considerable interval, lying to its outer side. The branches of the facial nerve cross the artery, and the infra-orbital nerve lies beneath it.