555 OF THE BRAIN p. 551). The parts of the brain included within this arterial circle are the lamina cinerea, the commissure of the optic nerves, the infundibulum, the tuber cinereum, the corpora albicantia, and the posterior perforated space. From the circle of Willis arise the three trunks which together supply each cerebral hemisphere. From its anterior part proceed the two anterior cerebrals ; from its antero-lateral part the middle cerebral, and from its posterior part the posterior cerebrals. Each of these principal arteries gives origin to two very different systems of secondary vessels. One of these systems has been named the central ganglionic system, and the vessels belonging to it supply the central ganglia of the brain ; the other has been named the cortical arterial system, and its vessels ramify in the pia mater and supply the cortex and subjacent medullary matter. These two systems, though they have a common origin, do not communicate at any Fig. 358.—Distribution of the cortical arteries. (After Charcot.) I. Medullary arteries, i'. Group of medullary arteries in tlie sulcus between two adjacent convolutions. 1''. Arteries situated among Gratiolet's commissural fibres. 2, 2. Cortical arteries, a. Capillary network with fairly wide meshes, situated beneath the pia mater, h. Network with more compact, polygonal meshes, situated in the cortex, c. Transitional network with wider meshes, cl. Capillary network in the white matter. point of their peripheral distribution, and are entirely independent of each other. Though some of the arteries of the cortical system approach, at their terminations, the regions supplied by. the central ganglionic system, no communication between the two sets of vessels takes place, and there is between the parts supplied by the two systems a borderland of diminished nutritive activity, where, it is said, softening is especially liable to occur in the brains of old people. The central ganglionic system.—All the vessels belonging to this system are given off from the circle of Willis, or from the vessels immediately after their origin from it. So that if a circle is drawn at a distance of about an inch from the circle of Willis, it will include the origin of all the arteries belonging to this system (fig. 357). The vessels of this system form six principal groups : (i) The antero-median group, derived from the anterior cerebrals and anterior communicating; (ii) the postero-median group, from the posterior cerebrals and posterior communicating ; (ill) the right and left antero-lateral group from the middle cerebrals ; and (iv) the right and left yostero-lateral group from the posterior cerebrals, after they have