567 INTEENAL MAMMARY beneath the Levator anguli scapulaB to the superior angle of the scapula. It now descends along the posterior border of that bone as far as the inferior angle, where it anastomoses with the subscapular branch of the axillary. In its course it is covered by the Rhomboid muscles, supplying them and the Latissimus dorsi and Trapezius, and anastomosing with the suprascapular and subscapular arteries, and with the posterior branches of some of the intercostal arteries. Peculiarities.—The superficial cervical frequently arises as a separate branch from the thyroid axis ; and the posterior scapular, from the third, more rarely from the second, part of the subclavian. The Internal Mammary arises from the under surface of the first portion of the subclavian artery, opposite the thyroid axis. It descends behind the costal cartilage of the first rib to the inner surface of the anterior wall of the chest, resting against the costal cartilages about half an inch from the margin of the sternum; and, at the interval between the sixth and seventh cartilages, divides into two branches, the musculo-phre7iic, and superior eingastric. Relations.—At its origin it is covered by the internal jugular and subclavian veins, and crossed by the phrenic nerve. In the upper part of the thorax, it lies against the costal cartilages and Internal intercostal muscles in front, and is covered by the pleura behind. At the lower part of the thorax, the Triangularis sterni separates the artery from the pleura. The branches of the internal mammary are— Comes Nervi Phrenici (Superior Phrenic). Anterior Intercostal. Mediastinal. Perforating. Pericardiac. Musculo-phrenic. Sternal. Superior Epigastric. The comes nervi phrenici (superior phrenic), is a long slender branch, which accompanies the phrenic nerve, between the pleura and pericardium, to the Diaphragm, to which it is distributed; anastomosing with the other phrenic arteries from the internal mammary, and abdominal aorta. The mediastinal branches are small vessels, which are distributed to the areolar tissue and lymphatic glands in the anterior mediastinum, and the remains of the thymus gland. The pericardiac branches supply the upper part of the anterior surface of the pericardium, the lower part receiving branches from the musculo-phrenic artery. The sternal branches are distributed to the Triangularis sterni, and to the posterior surface of the sternum. The mediastinal, pericardiac, and sternal branches, together with some twigs from the comes nervi phrenici, anastomose with branches from the intercostal and bronchial arteries, and form a minute plexus beneath the pleura which has been named by Turner the suhpleural mediastinal jylexus. The anterior intercostal arteries supply the five or six upper intercostal spaces. The branch corresponding to each space soon divides into two; or the two branches may come off separately from the parent trunk. The small vessels pass outwards in the intercostal spaces, one lying near the lower margin of the rib above, and the other near the upper margin of the rib below, and anastomose with the intercostal arteries from the aorta. They are at first situated between the pleura and the Internal intercostal muscles, and then between the Internal and External intercostal muscles. They supply the Intercostal muscles, and by branches which perforate the External intercostal muscle, the Pectoral muscles and the mammary gland. The perforating arteries correspond to the five or six upper intercostal spaces. They arise from the internal mammary, pass forwards through the intercostal spaces, and, curving outAvards, supply the Pectoralis major, and the integument. Those which correspond to the second, third, and fourth spaces are distributed to the mammary gland. In females, during lactation, these branches are of large size. The musculo-phrenic artery is directed obliquely downwards and outwards,