824 ORGANS OF SENSE which divides it into symmetrical halves ; this raphe terminates behind, about an inch from the base of the organ, in a depression, the foramen ccEcum. The anterior two-thirds of this sm^face are rough and covered, with papillae; the posterior third is smoother, and covered by the projecting orifices of numerous muciparous glands. Structure of the Tongue.—The tongue is partly invested by mucous membrane and a submucous fibrous layer. It consists of symmetrical halves, separated from each other, in the middle line, by a fibrous septum. Each half is composed of muscular fibres arranged in various directions, containing much interposed fat, and supplied by vessels and nerves. The mucous membrane invests the entire extent of the free surface of the tongue. On the dorsum it is thicker behind than in front, and is continuous with the sheaths of the muscles attached to it, through the submucous fibrous layer. On the under surface of the organ it can be traced on each side of the fragnum, through the ducts of the submaxillary and the sublingual glands. As it passes over the borders of the organ, it gradually assumes its papillary character. The structure of the mucous membrane of the tongue differs in different parts. That covering the under surface of the organ is thin, smooth, and identical in structure with that lining the rest of the oral cavity. The mucous membrane on the anterior part of the dorsum of the tongue is thin and intimately adherent to the muscular tissue, whilst that at the root is much thicker and looser. It consists of a layer of connective tissue, the corium or mucosa, supporting numerous ijainllcB, and covered, as well as the papillae, with epithelium. The epithehum is of the scaly variety, like that of the epidermis. ^ It covers the free surface of the tongue, as may be easily demonstrated by maceration or boiling, when it can be easily detached entire : it is much thinner than on the skin : the intervals between the large papilla are not filled up by it, but each papilla has a separate investment from root to summit. The deepest cells may sometimes be detached as a separate layer, corresponding to the rete mucosum, but they never contain colouring matter. The corium consists of a dense felt-work of fibrous connective tissue, with numerous elastic fibres, firmly connected with the fibrous tissue forming the septa between the muscular bundles of the tongue. It contains the ramifications of the numerous vessels and nerves from which the papilla? are supplied, large plexuses of lymphatic vessels, and the glands of the tongue. The i)a2)ill(B of the tongtie.—These are papillary projections of the corium. They are thickly distributed over the anterior two-thirds of its upper surface, giving to it its characteristic roughness. The varieties of papilla? met with are, the papillae maxim^e {circwnvallatcB), papillae mediae (fungiformes), papillae minimae [conicce or filiformes), and papillje simplices. The iMirillcB maximce (circumvallatae) are of large size, and vary from eight to twelve in number. They are situated at the back part of the dorsum of the tongue, near its base, forming a row on each side, which, running backwards and inwards.