GENERAL ANATOMY io6 The urinary bladder, part of the stalk of the as before allantois. Fig. 105.—Diagram of the primitive m'ogenital organs in the embryo previous to sexual distinction. The parts are shown chiefly in profile, but the Miillerian and Wolffian ducts are seen from the front. It has been stated that the kidney is developed from the lower part (meta- nephros) of the segmental organ. With this the ureter becomes connected in the following manner. It commences as a tubular diverticulum from the lower part of the segmental duct, close to the cloaca. It extends upwards and becomes divided into a number of csecal tubules, which represent the commencement of the several divisions of the pelvis of the kidney. These tubules are prolonged into the solid blastema of which the kidney at that time consists. The tubules then become convoluted, and masses of cells accumulate on their exterior, so as to give to the organ an appearance of lobulation. Between these cells vessels are developed, and the vascular glomeruli are gradually formed. The kidneys at first, therefore, consist of cortical substance only, but later on the proximal ends of the tubes become straight and arranged in bundles, and thus the pyramidal structure is developed. The lobulation of the kidney is perceptible for some time after birth. stated, is formed by a dilatation of the lower At the end of the second month this forms a spindle-shaped cavity, the bladder, which communicates with the lower part of the primitive intestine by a short canal, the first part of the urethra. The upper part of the stalk of the allantois, which is not dilated, forms the urachus ; this extends up into the umbilical cord, and at an early period of embryonic existence forms a tube of communication with the allantois. It is obliterated before the termination of foetal life, but the cord formed by its obliteration is perceptible throughout life, passing from the upper part of the bladder to the um- bilicus, and it occasionally remains patent in the adult, constituting a well-known malformation. The su^jrarenal bodies are developed from tw^o different sources. The medul- lary part of the organ is of epiblastic origin, and is derived from the tissues forming the sympathetic ganglia of the abdomen, while the cortical portion is of mesoblastic origin, and originates in the mesoblast just above the kidneys. The two parts are at first quite distinct, but become combined in the process of development. The suprarenal capsules are at first larger than the kidney, but become equal in size about the tenth w^eek, and from that time decrease rela- tively to the kidney, though they remain, throughout foetal life, much larger in pro- portion than in the adult. Development of the Generative Organs. —The first appearance of the reproductive organs is essentially the same in the two at one spot of the epithelial layer which lines the peritoneal or body cavity, with a slight increase of the connective tissue beneath it, forming a low ridge. This is termed the genital ridge, and is situated on the mesial side of each Wolffian body, and from it the testicle in the one sex, and the ovary in the other, are developed. The ridge, as the embryo grows, gradually becomes pinched oft' from the Wolffian body, with which it is at first 3. JJvetev. 4, Urinary bladder, 5. Urachus. of. The mass of blastema from which ovary or testicle is afterAvards formed. W. Left Wolffian body. X. Part at the apex from which the coni ■ vasculosi are afterwards developed, u; w. Right and left Wolffian ducts, m, m. Right and left Mullerian ducts uniting together and with the Wolffian ducts in <jc, the genital cord. tnj. Sinus urogenitalis. i. Lower part of the intestine. cl. Common opening of the intestine and uro- genital sinus. C2J. Elevation which becomes clitoris or penis. Is. Ridge from which the labia majora or scrotum are formed. sexes, and consists in a thickening