243 SUEGICAL ANATOMY in the first and second rows, in two small, lateral condyles, separated by a slight groove ; the articular surface being prolonged farther forwards on the palmar than on the dorsal surface, especially in the first row. The Ungual Phalanges are convex on their dorsal, flat on their palmar surfaces ; they are recognised by their small size, and by a roughened, elevated surface of a horseshoe form on the palmar aspect of their ungual extremity, which serves to support the sensitive pulp of the finger. Articulations.—The first row with the metacarpal bones and the second row of phalanges ; the second row with the first and third ; the third with the second row. Attachment of Muscles.—To the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, five muscles : the Extensor brevis pollicis. Flexor brevis poUicis, Abductor pollicis, Adductor transversus and obliquus pollicis. To the second phalanx, two : the Flexor longus pollicis and the Extensor longus pollicis. To the base.of the first phalanx of the index finger, the First dorsal and the First palmar interosseous; to that of the middle finger, the Second and Third dorsal interosseous ; to that of the ring-finger, the Fourth dorsal and the Second palmar interosseous ; and to that of the little finger, the Third palmar interosseous, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, and Abductor minimi digiti. To the second phalanges, the Flexor sublimis digitorum, Extensor communis digitorum, and, in addition, the Extensor indicis to the index finger, the Extensor minimi digiti to the little finger. To the third phalanges, the Flexor profundus digitorum and Extensor communis digitorum. Sarface Form.—On the front of the wrist are two subcutaneous eminences, one on the radial side, the larger and flatter, due to the tuberosity' of the scaphoid and the ridge on the trapezium ; the other, on the ulnar side, caused by the pisiform bone. The tubercle of the scaphoid is to be felt just below and in front of the apex of the styloid process of the radius. It is best perceived by extending the hand on the forearm. Immediately below is to be felt another prominence, better marked than the tubercle; this is the ridge on the trapezium, which gives attachment to some of the short muscles of the thumb. On the inner side of the front of the wrist the pisiform bone is to be felt, forming a small but prominent projection in this situation. It is some distance below the styloid process of the ulna, and may be said to be just below the level of the styloid process of the radius. The rest of the front of the carpus is covered by tendons and the annular ligament, and entirely concealed, with the exception of the hooked process of the unciform, which can only be made out with difficulty. The back of the carpus is convex and covered by the Extensor tendons, so that none of the posterior surfaces of the bones are to be felt, with the exception of the cuneiform on the inner side. Below the carpus the dorsal surface of the metacarpal bones, except the fifth, are covered by tendons, and are scarcely visible except in very thin hands. The dorsal surface of the fifth is, however, subcutaneous throughout almost its whole length, and is plainly to be perceived and felt. In addition to this, slightly external to the middle line of the hand, is a prominence, frequently well marked, but occasionally indistinct, formed by the base of the metacarpal of the middle finger. The heads of the metacarpal bones are plainly to be felt and seen, rounded in contour and standing out in bold relief under the skin, when the fist is clenched. It should be borne in mind that when the fingers are flexed on the hand, the articular surfaces of the first phalanges glide off the heads of the metacarpal bones on to their anterior surfaces ; so that the heads of these bones form the prominence of the knuckles and receive the force of any blow which may be given. The head of the third metacarpal bone is the most prominent, and receives the greater part of the shock of the blow. This boiie articulates with the os magnum, so that the concussion is carried through this bone to the scaphoid and semilunar, with which the head of the os magnum articulates, and by these bones is transferred to the radius, along which it may^ be carried to the capitellum of the humerus. The enlarged extremities of the phalanges are to be plainly felt: they form the joints of the fingers. When the digits are bent, the proximal phalanges of the joints form prominences, which in the joint between the first and second phalanges is slightly hollowed, in accordance with the grooved shape of their articular surfaces, whilst at the last row the prominence is flattened and square-shaped. In the palm of the hand the four inner metacarpal bones are covered by muscles, tendons, and the palmar fascia, and no part of them but their heads is to be distinguished. With regard to the thumb, on the dorsal aspect, the base of the metacarpal bone forms a prominence, below the styloid pro- cess of the radius; the shaft is to be felt, covered by tendons, terminating at its head in a flattened prominence, in front of which can be felt the sesamoid bones. Surgical Anatomy.—The carpal bones are little liable to fracture, except from extreme violence, when the parts are so comminuted as to necessitate amputation. Occasionally they are the seat of tubercular disease. The metacarpal bones and the phalanges are not R 2