SYMPATHETIC NERVE 8l2 In the neck they are situated in front of the transverse processes of the vertebrae; in the dorsal region, in front of the heads of the ribs; in the lumbar region, on the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae ; and in the sacral region, in front of the sacrum. As the two cords pass into the pelvis, they converge and unite together in a single ganglion (ganglion impar), placed in front of the coccyx. Each ganglion may be regarded as a distinct centre, and, in addition to its branches of distribution, possesses also branches of communication, which communicate with other ganglia and with the cerebro-spinal nerves. The branches of communication between the ganglia are composed of grey and white nerve-fibres, the latter being continuous with those fibres of the spinal nerves which pass to the ganglia. The branches of communication between the ganglia and the cerebro-spinal nerves also consist of a white and grey portion; the former proceeding from the spinal nerve to the ganglion, the latter passing from the ganglion to the spinal nerve, so that a double interchange takes place between the two systems. The three great gangliated plexuses are situated in front of the spine in the thoracic, abdominal, and pelvic regions, and are named respectively, the cardiac, the solar or epigastric, and the hypogastric plexus. They consist of collections of nerves and ganglia ; the nerves being derived from the gangliated cords, and from the cerebro-spinal nerves. They distribute branches to the viscera. Smaller ganglia are also found lying amidst the nerves, some of them of microscopic size, in certain viscera—as, for instance, in the heart, the stomach, and the uterus. They serve as additional centres for the origin of nerve-fibres. The branches of distribtition derived from the gangliated cords, from the prevertebral plexuses, and also from the smaller ganglia, are principally destined for the blood-vessels and thoracic and abdominal viscera, supplying the involuntary muscular fibre of the coats of the vessels and the hollow viscera, and the secreting cells, as well as the muscular coats of the vessels in the glandular viscera. In addition to these various divisions of the sympathetic, the ganglia con- nected with the three branches of the fifth cranial nerve are believed by some to constitute a part of the sympathetic system. These ganglia have already been described (page 742 seq.). Cervical Portion of the Gangliated Cord The cervical portion of the gangliated cord consists of three ganglia on each side, which are distinguished, according to their position, as the superior, middle, and inferior cervical. The Superior Cervical Ganglion, the largest of the three, is placed opposite the second and third cervical vertebrae, and sometimes as low as the fourth or fifth. It is of a reddish-grey colour, and usually fusiform in shape; sometimes broad, and occasionally constricted at intervals, so as to give rise to the opinion that it consists of the coalescence of several smaller ganglia ; and it is usually believed that it is formed by the coalescence of the four ganglia, corresponding to the four upper cervical nerves. It is in relation, in front, with the sheath of the internal carotid artery, and internal jugular vein ; behind, it lies on the Rectus capitis anticus major muscle. Its branches may be divided into superior, inferior, external, internal, and anterior. The superior branch appears to be a direct prolongation of the ganglion. It is soft in texture, and of a reddish colour. It ascends by the side of the internal carotid artery, and, entering the carotid canal in the temporal bone, divides into two branches, which lie, one on the outer, and the other on the inner side of that vessel. The oiUer branch, the larger of the two, distributes filaments to the internal carotid artery, and forms the carotid plexus. The inner branch also distributes filaments to the internal carotid, and, con- tinuing onw^ards, forms the cavernous plexus.