615 FEMORAL The internal saphenous nerve is situated on the outer side of the artery, in the middle third of the thigh, beneath the aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal; but not usually within the sheath of the vessels. The internal cutaneous nerve passes obliquely across the upper part of the sheath of the femoral artery. Peculiarities.—Double femoral reunited.—Several cases are recorded in which the femoral artery divided into two trunks below the origin of the profunda, and became reunited near the opening in the Adductor magnus, so as to form a single popliteal artery. One of them occurred in a patient operated upon for popliteal aneurism. Change of Position.—A few cases have been recorded in which the femoral artery was situated at the back of the thigh, the vessel being continuous above with the internal iliac, escaping from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and accompanying the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space, where its division occurred in the usual manner. The external iliac in these cases was small, and terminated in the profunda. Position of the Vein.—The femoral vein is occasionally placed along the inner side of the artery, throughout the entire extent of Scarpa's triangle; or it may be slit so that a large vein is placed on each side of the artery for a greater or less extent. Origin of the Profimda.—This vessel occasionally arises from the inner side, and, more rarely, from the back of the common trunk; but the more important peculiarity, in a sm^gical point of view, is that which relates to the height at which the vessel arises from the femoral. In three-fourths of a large number of cases, it arose between one or two inches below Poupart's ligament; in a few cases the distance was less than an inch ; more rarely, opposite the ligament; and in one case, above Poupart's ligament, from the external iliac. Occasionally, the distance between the origin of the vessel and Poupart's ligament exceeds two inches, and in one case it was found to be as much as four inches. Surface Marhing.—The upper two-thirds of a line drawn from a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis to the prominent laber- osity on the inner condyle of the femur, with the' thigh abducted and rotated outwards, will indicate the course of the femoral artery. Surgical Anatomy.—Compression of the femoral artery, which is constantly requisite in amputations and other operations on the lower limb, and also for the cure of popliteal aneurisms, is most effectually made immediately below Poupart's ligament. In this situation the artery is very superficial, and is merely separated from the horizontal ramus of the OS pubis by the Psoas muscle ; so that the surgeon, by means of his thumb or a compressor, may effectually control the circidation through it. This vessel may also be compressed in the middle third of the thigh by placing a compress over the artery, beneath the tourniquet, and directing the pressure from within outwards, so as to compress the vessel against the inner side of the shaft of the femur. The ajJjylication of a ligature to the femoral artery may be required in the cases of wound or aneurism of the arteries of the leg, of the popliteal or femoral; * and the vessel may be exposed and tied in any part of its course. The great depth of this vessel at its lower part, its close connection with important structures, and the density of its sheath, render the operation in this situation one of much greater difficulty than the application of a ligature at its upper part, where it is more superficial. Ligature of the common femoral artery is usually considered unsafe, on account of the connection of large branches with it: viz. the deep epigastric and the deep circumflex iliac arising just above Poupart's ligament; on account of the number of small branches which arise from it, in its short course, and on account of the uncertainty of the origin of the profunda femoris, which, if it arise high up, would be too close to the ligature for the formation of a firm coagulum. The profunda sometimes arises higher than the point above mentioned, and rarely between two or three inches (in one case four) below Poupart's ligament. It would appear, then, that the most favourable situation for the apj)lication of a ligature to the femoral is between four and five inches from its point of origin. In order to expose the artery in this situation, an incision, between two and three inches long, should be made in the course of the vessel, the patient lying in the recumbent position, with the limb slightly fiexed and abducted. A large vein is frequently met with, passing in the course of the artery to join the saphena ; this must be avoided, and the fascia lata having been cautiously divided, and the Sartorius exposed, that muscle must be drawn outwards, in order to fully expose the sheath of the vessels. The finger being introduced into the wound, and the pulsation of the artery felt, the sheath should be opened on the outer side of the vessel to a sufficient extent to allow of the introduction of the ligature, but no further ; otherwise the nutrition of the coats of the vessel may be interfered with, or muscular branches which arise from the vessel at irregular intervals may be divided. In this part of the operation the long saphenous nerve and the nerve to the Vastus internus, which is in close relation with the sheath, should be avoided. The * Ligature of the femoral artery has been also recommended and performed for elephantiasis of the leg and acute inllammation of the knee-joint.—Maunder, Clin. Soc. Trans., vol. ii. p. 37.