THE LAEGE INTESTINE the crypts of Lieberkdhn. They are best marked in the young subject, becoming indistinct in middle age, and sometimes altogether disappearing in advanced life. They are largely supplied with blood-vessels, which form an abundant plexus around each follicle, from which fine branches are given off which permeate the lymphoid tissue in the interior of the follicle. Vessels and Nerves.—The jejunum and ileum are sup]Dlied by the superior mesenteric artery, the branches of which, having reached the attached border of the bowel, run between the serous and muscular coats, with frequent inoscula- tions to the free border, where they also anastomose with other branches running round the opposite surface of the gut. From these vessels numerous branches are given off, which pierce the muscular coat, supplying it and forming an intricate plexus in the submucous tissue. From this plexus minute vessels pass to the glands and villi of the mucous membrane. The veins have a similar course and arrangement to the arteries. The lymphatics of the small intestine (lacteals) are arranged in two sets, those of the villi and those of the muscular coat. The lymphatics of the villi commence in these structures in the manner described above, and form an intricate plexus in the mucous and submucous tissue, being joined by the lymphatics from the lymph-spaces at the bases of the solitary glands (fig. 540), and. from this pass to larger vessels at the mesenteric border of the gut. The lymphatics of the muscular coats are situated to a great extent between the two layers of muscular fibres, where they form a close plexus, and throughout their course communicate freely with the lymphatics from the mucous membrane, and empty themselves in the same manner into the commencement of the lacteal vessels at the attached border of the gut. The nerves of the small intestine are derived from the plexuses of sympathetic nerves around the superior mesenteric artery. From this source they run to a plexus of nerves and ganglia situated between the circular and longitudinal muscular fibres (Auerbach's plexus) from which the nervous branches are distributed to the muscular coats of the intestine. From this plexus a secondary plexus is derived (Meissner's plexus), which is formed by branches which have perforated the circular muscular fibres (fig. 541). This plexus lies between the muscular and mucous coats of the intestine. It is also gangliated, and from it the ultimate fibres pass to the muscularis mucosae and to the mucous membrane. The Large Intestine The large intestine extends from the termination of the ileum to the anus. It is about five feet in length, being one-fifth of the whole extent of the intestinal canal. It is largest at its commencement at the caecum, and gradually diminishes as far as the rectum, where there is a dilatation of considerable size, just above the anus. It differs from the small intestine in its greater size, its more fixed position, and its sacculated form. The large intestine, in its course, describes an arch, which surrounds the convolutions of the small intestine. It commences in the right inguinal region, in a dilated part, the ccecum. It ascends through the right lumbar and hypochondriac regions to the under surface of the liver ; passes trans- versely across the abdomen on the confines of the epigastric and umbihcal regions, to the left hypochondriac region ; descends through the left lumbar region to the left iUac fossa, where it becomes convoluted, and forms the sigmoid flexure ; finally it enters the pelvis, and descends along its posterior wall to the anus. The large intestine is divided into the caecum, colon, and rectum. The csecum (csecus, blind) (fig. 542) is the large blind pouch, or cul-de-sac, in which the large intestine commences. It is the most dilated part of the tube, measuring about two and a half inches, both in its vertical and transverse diameters. Its position varies somewhat; usually it is found lying upon the Psoas muscle, and so placed that its apex or lowest point is just projecting beyond the inner border of that-muscle, corresponding to a point a little to the inner side of the middle of Poupart's ligament. Sometimes, however, it is situated external