AETICULATIONS 322 The Nerves are derived from the circumflex and suprascapular. Actions.—The shoulder-joint is capable of movement in every direction, forwards, backwards, abduction, adduction, circumduction, and rotation. The humerus is drawn fonvards by the Pectoralis major, anterior fibres of the Deltoid, Coraco- brachialis, and by the Biceps, when the forearm is flexed ; backivards, by the Latis- simus dorsi, Teres major, posterior fibres of the Deltoid, and by the Triceps when the forearm is extended ; it is abducted (elevated) by the Deltoid and Supraspinatus ; it is adducted (depressed) by the Subscapularis, Pectoralis major, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major; it is rotated outtvards by the Infraspinatus and Teres minor ; and it is rotated imoards by the Subscapularis, Latissimus dorsi, Teres major, and Pectoralis major. The most striking peculiarities in this joint are : i. The large size of the head of the humerus in comparison with the depth of the glenoid cavity, even when supplemented by the glenoid ligament. 2. The looseness of the capsule of the joint. 3. The intimate connection of the capsule with the muscles attached to the head of the humerus. 4. The peculiar relation of the biceps tendon to the joint. It is in consequence of the relative size of the two articular surfaces that the joint enjoys such free movement in every possible direction. When these movements of the arm are arrested in the shoulder-joint by the contact of the bony surfaces, and by the tension of the corresponding fibres of the capsule, together with that of the muscles acting as accessory ligaments, they can be carried considerably further by the movements of the scapula, involving, of course, motion at the acromio- and sterno-clavicular joints. These joints are therefore to be regarded as accessory structures to the shoulder-joint.* The extent of these movements of the scapula is very considerable, especially in extreme elevation of the arm, which movement is best accomplished when the arm is thrown somewhat forward, since the articular surface of the humerus is broader in the middle than at either end, especially the lower, so that the range of elevation directly forward is less, and that directly bo.ckward still more restricted. The great width of the central portion of the humeral head also allows of very free horizontal movement when the arm is raised to a right angle, in which movement the arch formed by the acromion, the coracoid process, and the coraco-acromial ligament, constitutes a sort of supple- mental articular cavity for the head of the bone. The looseness of the capsule is so great that the arm will fall about an inch from the scapula when the muscles are dissected from the capsular ligament, and an opening made in it to remove the atmospheric pressure. The movements of the joint, therefore, are not regulated by the capsule so much as by the surrounding muscles and by the pressure of the atmosphere, an arrangement which ' renders the movements of the joint much more easy than they would otherwise have been, and permits a swinging, pendulum-like vibration of the limb when the muscles are at rest' (Humphry). The fact, also, that in all ordinary positions of the joint the capsule is not put on the stretch, enables the arm to move freely in all direc- tions. Extreme movements are checked by the tension of appropriate portions of the capsule, as well as by the interlocking of the bones. Thus it is said that ' abduction is checked by the contact of the great tuberosity with the upper edge of the glenoid cavity, adduction by the tension of the coraco-humeral ligament' (Beaunis et Bouchard). The intimate union of the tendons of the four short muscles with the capsule converts these muscles into elastic and spontaneously acting ligaments of the joint, and it is regarded as being also intended to prevent the folds into which all portions of the capsule would alternately fall in the varying positions of the joint from being driven between the bones by the pressure of the atmosphere. The peculiar relations of the Biceps tendon to the shoulder-joint appear to sub- serve various purposes. In the first place, by its connection with both the shoulder and elbow the muscle harmonises the action of the two joints, and acts as an elastic ligament in all positions, in the manner previously adverted to.j Next, it * See p. 318. t See p. 292.