646 VEINS frequently practised, arterio-venous aneurism was no uncommon result of this practice. Another disadvantage is, that the median basilic is crossed b}^ some of the branches of the internal cutaneous nerve, and these may be divided in the operation, giving rise to ' traumatic neuralgia of extreme intensity ' (Tillaux). The Basilic Vein is of considerable size, formed by the coalescence of the common ulnar vein with the median basilic. It passes upwards along the inner side of the Biceps muscle, pierces the deep fascia a Httle below the middle of the arm, and, ascending in the course of the brachial artery, terminates by joining the venfP comites of that vessel to form the axillary vein. The Cephalic Vein courses along the outer border of the Biceps muscle, lying in the same groove with the upper external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, to the upper third of the arm ; it then passes in the interval between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid muscles, lying in the same groove with the descending branch of the acromial-thoracic artery. It pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, and terminates in the axillary vein just below^ the clavicle. This vein is occasionally connected with the external jugular or subclavian, by a branch which passes from it upwards in front of the clavicle. The Deep Veins of the Upper Extremity follow the course of the arteries, forming their venae comites. They are generally two in number, one lying on each side of the corresponding artery, and they are connected at intervals by short transverse branches. There are two digital veins, accompanying each artery along the sides of the fingers : these, uniting at their base, pass along the interosseous spaces in the palm, and terminate in the two venae comites which accompany the superficial palmar arch. Branches from these vessels on the radial side of the hand accom- pany the superficialis vol^, and on the ulnar side terminate in the deep ulnar veins. The deep ulnar veins, as they pass in front of the WTist, communicate wdth the interosseous and superficial veins, and, at the elbow, unite with the deep radial veins to form the venae comites of the brachial artery. The Interosseous Veins accompany the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. The anterior interosseous veins commence in front of the wrist, where they communicate wdth the deep radial and ulnar veins; at the upper part of the forearm they receive the posterior interosseous veins, and terminate in the venae comites of the ulnar artery. The Deep Palmar Veins accompany the deep palmar arch, being formed by tributaries which accompany the ramifications of that vessel. They communicate with the deep ulnar veins at the inner side of the hand, and on the outer side terminate in the venae comites of the radial artery. At the w^rist, they receive a dorsal and a palmar tributary from the thumb, and unite with the deep radial veins. Accompanying the radial artery, these vessels terminate in the venae comites of the brachial artery. The Brachial Veins are placed one on each side of the brachial artery, receiving tributaries corresponding with the branches given off from that vessel; at the low^er margin of the axilla they unite mth the basilic to form the axillary vein. These deep veins have numerous anastomoses, not only with each other, but also with the superficial veins. The Axillary Vein is of large size, and formed by the junction of the ven^e comites of the brachial artery with the basilic vein. It commences at the lower part of the axillary space, increases in size as it ascends, by receiving tributaries corresponding with the branches of the axillary artery, and terminates imme- diately beneath the clavicle at the lower border of the first rib, where it becomes the subcla\ian vein. This vessel is covered in front by the Pectoral muscles and costo-coracoid membrane, and lies on the thoracic side of the axillary artery, which it partially overlaps. Near its termination it receives the cephalic vein. This vein is provided with a pair of valves, opposite the lower border of the Sub- scapularis muscle ; valves are also found at the termination of the cephalic and subscapular veins.