MUSCLES AND FASCIA 428 female. The intercolumnar fibres increase the strength of the lower part of the aponeurosis, and prevent the divergence of the pillars from one another. These intercolumnar fibres as they pass across the external abdominal ring are themselves connected together by delicate fibrous tissue, thus forming a fascia, which as it is attached to the pillars of the ring covers it in, and is called the intercolumnar fascia. This intercolumnar fascia is continued down as a tubular prolongation around the outer surface of the cord and testis, and encloses them in a distinct sheath,"hence it is also called the external spermatic fascia. The sac of an inguinal hernia, in passing through the external abdominal ring, receives an investment from the intercolumnar fascia. If the finger is introduced a short distance into the external abdominal ring and the limb is then extended and rotated outw^ards, the aponeurosis of the External oblique together with the iliac portion of the fascia lata will be felt to become tense, and the external ring much contracted ; if the limb is on the contrary flexed upon the pelvis and rotated inwards, this aponeurosis will become lax and the external abdominal ring sufficiently enlarged to admit the finger with comparative ease : hence the patient should always be put in the latter position when the taxis is applied for the reduction of an inguinal hernia in order that the abdominal walls may be relaxed as much as possible. Poupart's ligament, or the crural arch, is the lower border of the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle, which extends from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the os pubis. From this latter point it is reflected outwards to be attached to the pectineal line for about half an inch, forming Gimbernat's ligament. Its general direction is curved downwards towards the thigh, where it is continuous with the fascia lata. Its outer half is rounded and oblique in direction. Its inner half gradually widens at its attachment to the os pubis, is more horizontal in direction, and lies beneath the spermatic cord. Nearly the whole of the space included between the crural arch and the innominate bone is filled in by the parts which descend from the abdomen into the thigh. These will be referred to again on a subsequent page. Gimbernat's ligament is that part of the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle which is reflected downwards and outwards from the spine of the os pubis to be inserted into the pectineal line. It is about half an inch in length, larger in the male than in the female, almost horizontal in direction in the erect posture, and of a triangular form with the base directed outwards. Its base, or outer margin, is concave, thin, and sharp, and lies in contact with the crural sheath. Its apex corresponds to the spine of the os pubis. Its posterior margin is attached to the pectineal line, and is continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Its anterior margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament. The triangular ligament of the abdomen is a band of tendinous fibres of a triangular shape, which is attached by its apex to the pectineal line, where it is continuous with Gimbernat's ligament. It passes inw^ards beneath the spermatic cord, and expands into a somewhat fan-shaped fascia, lying behind the inner pillar of the external abdominal ring, and in front of the conjoined tendon, and interlaces with the ligament of the other side at the linea alba. Dissection.—Detach the External oblique by dividing it across, just in front of its attachment to the ribs, as far as its posterior border, and separate it below from the crest of the ilium as far as the anterior superior spine ; then separate the muscle carefully from the Internal oblique, which lies beneath, and turn it towards the opposite side. The Internal or Ascending oblique muscle (fig. 293), thinner and smaller than the preceding, beneath which it lies, is of an irregularly quadrilateral form, and situated at the side and fore part of the abdomen. It arises, by fleshy fibres, from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, being attached to the groove on its upper surface ; from the anterior two-thirds of the middle lip of the crest of the ilium, and from the posterior lamella of the lumbar fascia. From this origin the fibres diverge: those from Poupart's ligament, few in number, and paler in colour