ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION 986 mucous membrane lines the bronchi and its ramifications throughout, and is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium. 2. In the lobitles of the lung.—In the lobular bronchial tubes and in the infundibula the following changes take place. The muscular tissue begins to disappear, so that in the infundibula there is scarcely a trace of it. The longitudinal elastic fibres begin to break up, so that in the infundibula they form an interlacement around the mouths of the air-cells which spring from it. The epithelium becomes non-ciliated and flattened. This occurs gradually; thus, in the lobular bronchial tubes, patches of non-ciliated flattened epithelium may be found scattered amongst the columnar ciliated epithelium ; then these patches of non-ciliated flattened epithelium become more and more numerous, until in the infundibula and air-cells all the epithelium is of the non-ciliated pavement variety. In addition to these flattened cells, there are small polygonal granular cells in the air-sacs in flusters of two or three, between the others. The air-cells are small, polyhedral, alveolar recesses composed of a fibrillated connective tissue, and surrounded by a few involuntary muscular and elastic fibres. In their walls are granular, rounded, amoeboid cells, often containing carbonaceous particles. The air-cells are well seen on the surface of the lung, and vary from 2^^jpth to J^th of an inch in diameter; being largest on the surface at the thin borders and at the apex, and smallest in the interior. The pulmonary artery conveys the venous blood to the lungs; it divides into branches which accompany the bronchial tubes, and terminates in a dense capillary network, upon the walls of the intercellular passages and air-cells. In the lung, the branches of the pulmonary artery are usually above and in front of a bronchial tube, the vein below. The pulmonary caijillaries form plexuses which lie immediately beneath the mucous membrane, in the walls and septa of the air-cells, and of the infundibula. In the septa between the air-cells the capillary network forms a single layer. The capillaries form a very minute network, the meshes of which are smaller than the vessels themselves ; * their walls are also exceedingly thin. The vessels of neighbouring lobules are distinct from each other, and do not anastomose; and, according to Dr. Waters,f those of the separate groups of infundibula with their air-cells (which groups he denominates lobulettes), are also independent; so that in the septa between two adjoining lobulettes there would be a double layer of capillaries, one layer belonging to each of the adjacent infundibula with their air- cells. If this is really the arrangement of the vessels, it would follow that, in the septa between the air-cells, the blood in the capillaries would be exposed on all sides to the action of the air, since it is circulating in a single layer of vessels, which is in contact with the membrane of the air-cells on both sides ; but that, in the septa between the neighbouring infundibula, with their air-cells, the blood being in a double layer of capillaries, it will be in contact with the air on one side only. The pulmonary veins commence in the pulmonary capillaries, the radicles coalescing into larger branches, which accompany the arteries and return the oxygenated blood to the left auricle of the heart. The bronchial arteries supply blood for the nutrition of the lung : they are derived from the thoracic aorta, and, accompanying the bronchial tubes, are distributed to the bronchial glands, and upon the walls of the larger bronchial tubes and pulmonary vessels. Those supplying the bronchial tubes form a capillary plexus in the muscular coat, from which branches are given off to form a second plexus in the mucous coat. This plexus communicates with branches of the pulmonary artery, and empties itself into the pulmonary vein. Others are distributed in the interlobular areolar tissue, and terminate partly in the deep, partly in the superficial, bronchial veins. Lastly, some ramify upon the surface of the lung, beneath the pleura, where they form a capillary network. * The meshes are only o'oo2'^' to 0*008'^^ in width, while the vessels are 0-003"^^ to 0*005^'^ KoUiker, Human Microscopic Anatomy. 1 t Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xxviii. 1845. 1