I PLANTAE 629 beneath the Peroneus tertins, to the outer ankle, ramifies on the front and outer side of the tarsus, anastomosing with the external malleolar and tarsal arteries. The communicating is given off from the peroneal about an inch from its lower end, and, passing inwards, joins the communicating branch of the posterior tibial. The Posterior peroneal passes down behind the outer ankle to the back of the external malleolus, to terminate in branches which ramify on the outer surface and back of the os calcis. The External calcanean arte the terminal branches of the peroneal artery ; they pass to the outer side of the heel, and communicate with the external malleolar and, on the back of the heel, with the internal calcanean arteries. The nutrient artery of the tibia arises from the posterior tibial, near its origin, and, after supplying a few muscular branches, enters the nutrient canal of that Fig. 379.—The plantar arteries. Fig. 380.—The plantar arteries. bone, which it traverses obliquely from above downwards. This is the largest nutrient artery of bone in the body. The muscular branches of the posterior tibial are distributed to the Soleus and deep muscles along the back of the leg. The communicating branch, to join a similar branch of the peroneal, runs transversely across the back of the tibia, about two inches above its lower end, passing beneath the Flexor longus hallucis. The internal calcanean are several large arteries, which arise from the posterior tibial just before its division ; they are distributed to the fat and integument behind the tendo Achillis and about the heel, and to the muscles on the inner side of the sole, anastomosing with the peroneal and internal malleolar and, on the back of the heel, with the external calcanean arteries. The Internal Plantar Artery (figs. 379, 380), much smaller than the external, passes forwards along the inner side of the foot. It is at first situated above* the * This refers to the erect position of the body. In the ordinary position for dissection, the artery is deeper than the muscle. Superficial view. Deep view.