255 PELVIS with regard to the trunk of the body : the bony ring, which separates the true from the false pelvis, and which forms the essential part of the pelvis, is placed so as to form an angle of about 60° to 65° with the ground on which we stand. The pelvic surface of the symphysis pubis looks upwards and backwards, the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx downwards and forwards ; the base of the sacrum in well-formed female bodies being nearly four inches above the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and the apex of the coccyx a little more than half an inch above its lower border. The obliquity is much greater in the foetus, and at an early period of life, than in the adult. In consequence of this obliquity of the pelvis, the line of gravity of the head, which passes through the middle of the odontoid process of the axis and through the points of junction of the curves of the vertebral column to the sacro-vertebral angle, descends towards the front of the cavity, so that it bisects a line drawn transversely through the middle of the heads of the thigh-bones. And thus the centre of gravity of the head is placed immediately over the heads of the thigh-bones on which the trunk is supported. Axes of the Pelvis (fig. 212).—The plane of the inlet of the true pelvis will be represented by a line drawn from the base of the sacrum to the upper margin of the symphysis pubis. A line carried at right angles with this at its middle, would correspond at one extremity with the umbilicus, and at the other with the middle of the coccyx : the axis of the inlet is therefore directed downwards and backwards. The axis of the outlet, produced upwards, would touch the base of the sacrum, and is therefore directed downwards and forwards. The axis of the cavity is curved like the cavity itself : this curve corresponds to the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx, the extremities being indicated by the central points of the inlet and outlet. A knowledge of the direction of these axes serves to explain the course of the foetus in its passage through the pelvis during par- turition. It is also important to the surgeon, as indicating the direction of the force required in the removal of calculi from the bladder, and as determining the direction in which instruments should be used in oper- ations upon the pelvic viscera. Differences between the Male and Female Pelvis.—The female pelvis, looked at as a whole, is distinguished from the male by the bones being more delicate, by its width being greater and its depth smaller. The whole pelvis is less massive, and its bones are lighter and more slender, and its muscular impressions are slightly marked. The iliac fossae are broad and expanded, and the anterior iliac spines widely separated ; hence the greater prominence of the hips. The inlet in the female is larger than in the male ; it is more nearly circular, and the sacro-vertebral angle projects less forwards. The cavity is shallower and wider; the sacrum is shorter and wider, and its lower half forms a greater angle with its upper ; the obturator foramina are triangular, and smaller in size than in the male. The outlet is larger and the coccyx more movable. The spines of the ischia project less inwards. The tuberosities of the ischia and the acetabula are wider apart. The imhic arch is wider and more rounded than in the male, where it is an angle rather than an arch; its pillars are somewhat excavated, and sloped from within outwards, so that their inner surfaces look forwards. In consequence of this the width of the fore part of the pelvic outlet is much increased and the passage of the foetal head facilitated. The size of the pelvis varies, not only in the two sexes, but also in different Fig. 212.—Vertical section of the pelvis, with Imes mdicatmg the axes of the pelvis.