AXILLARY 573 The vessel can be best secured by a curved incision with the convexity downwards from a point half an inch external to the Sterno-claviciilar joint to a point half an inch internal to the coracoid process. The limb is to be well abducted and the head inclined to the opposite side, and this incision carried through the superficial structures, care being taken of the cephalic vein at the outer angle of the incision. The clavicular origin of the Pectoralis major is then divided in the whole extent of the wound. The arm is now to be brought to the side, and the upper edge of the Pectoralis minor defined and drawn down- wards. The costo-coracoid membrane is to be carefully torn through with a director, close to the coracoid process, and the axillary sheath exposed ; this is to be opened with especial care on account of the vein overlapping the artery. The needle should be passed from below, so as to avoid wounding the vein. In a case of wound of the vessel, the general practice of cutting down upon, and tying it above and below the wounded point, should be adopted in all cases. Collateral Circulation after Ligature of the Axillary Artery.—If the artery be tied above the origin of the acromial thoracic, the collateral circulation will be carried on by the same branches as after the ligature of the subclavian ; if at a lower point, between the acromial thoracic and subscapular arteries, the latter vessel, by its free anastomoses with the other scapular arteries, branches of the subclavian, will become the chief agent in carrying on the circulation, to which the long thoracic, if it be below the ligature, will materially contribute, by its anastomoses with the intercostal and internal mammary arteries. If the point included in the ligature be below the prigin of the subscapular artery, it will most probably also be below the origins of the two circumflex arteries. The chief agents in restoring the circulation will then be the subscapular and the two circumflex arteries anastomosing with the superior profunda from the brachial, which will be after- wards referred to as performing the same office after ligature of the brachial. The cases in which the operation has been performed are few in number, and no published account of dissection of the collateral circulation appears to exist. The branches of the axillary artery are :— The superior thoracic is a small artery, which arises from the axillary sepa- rately, or by a common trunk with the acromial thoracic. Running forwards and inwards along the upper border of the Pectoralis minor, it passes between it and the Pectoralis major to the side of the chest. It supplies these muscles, and the parietes of the thorax, anastomosing with the internal mammary and intercostal arteries. The acromial thoracic is a short trunk, which arises from the fore part of the axillary artery. Projecting forwards to the upper border of the Pectoralis minor, it divides into three sets of branches—thoracic, acromial, and descending. The thoracic branches, two or three in number, are distributed to the Serratus magnus and Pectoral muscles, anastomosing with the intercostal branches of the internal mammary. The acromial branches are directed outwards towards the acromion, supplying the Deltoid muscle, and anastomosing, on the surface of the acromion, with the suprascapular, and posterior circumflex arteries. The descending branch passes in the space between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid, in the same groove as the cephalic vein, and supplies both muscles. The artery also gives off a very small branch, the clavicular, which passes upwards to the Subclavius muscle. The long thoracic passes downwards and inwards along the lower border of the Pectoralis minor to the side of the chest, supplying the Serratus magnus, the Pectoral muscles, and mammary gland, and sending branches across the axilla to the axillary glands and Subscapularis ; it anastomoses with the internal mammary and intercostal arteries. The alar thoracic is a small branch, which supplies the glands and areolar tissue of the axilla. Its place is frequently supplied by branches from some of the other thoracic arteries. The subscapular, the largest branch of the axillary artery, arises opposite the lower border of the Subsca]3ularis muscle, and passes downwards and backwards along its lower margin to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it anastomoses with the long thoracic and intercostal arteries and with the posterior scapular, a