772 SPINAL NERVES second is horizontal; the others are directed obliquely doAvmvards and outwards, the lowest being the most oblique, and consequently longer than the upper, the distance between their place of origin and their point of exit from the spinal canal never exceeding the depth of one vertebra. The trunk of the first cervical nerve (suboccipital) leaves the spinal canal, between the occipital bone and the posterior arch of the atlas ; the second, between the posterior arch of the atlas and the lamina of the axis ; and the eighth (the last), between the last cervical and first dorsal vertebrae. Each nerve, at its exit from the intervertebral foramen, divides into a posterior and an anterior division. The anterior divisions of the four upper cervical nerves form the cervical plexus. The anterior divisions of the four lower cervical nerves, together with the first dorsal, form the brachial plexus. PosTEKioE Divisions of the Ceevical Nerves (fig. 456) The posterior division of the first cervical {suboccipital) nerve differs from the posterior divisions of the other cervical nerves in not dividing into an internal and external branch. It is larger than the anterior division, and escapes from the spinal canal between the occipital bone and the posterior arch of the atlas, lying behind the vertebral artery. It enters the suboccipital triangle formed by the Rectus capitis posticus major, the Obliquus superior, and Obliquus inferior, and supplies the Recti and Obliqui muscles, and the Complexus. From the branch which supplies the Inferior oblique a filament is given off which joins the second cervical nerve. This nerve also occasionally gives off a cutaneous filament, Avhich accompanies the occipital artery, and communicates with the occipitalis major and minor nerves. The posterior division of the second cervical nerve is three or four times greater than the anterior division, and the largest of all the posterior cervical divisions. It emerges from the spinal canal between the posterior arch of the atlas and lamina of the axis, below the Inferior oblique. It supplies this muscle, and receives a communicating filament from the first cervical. It then divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch, called, from its size and distribution, the occipitalis rizajor, ascends obliquely inwards between the Obliquus inferior and Complexus, and pierces the latter muscle and the Trapezius near their attachments to the cranium. It is now joined by a filament from the posterior division of the third cervical nerve, and, ascending on the back part of the head with the occipital artery, divides • into two branches, which supply the integument of the scalp as far forwards as the vertex, communicating with the occipitalis minor. It gives off an auricular branch to the back part of the ear, and muscular branches to the Complexus. The external branch is often joined by the external branch of the posterior division of the third, and supplies the Splenius, Trachelo-mastoid, and Complexus. The posterior division of the third cervical is smaller than the preceding, but larger than the fourth ; it differs from the posterior divisions of the remaining cervical nerves in its supplying an additional filament, the third occipital nerve, to the integument of the occiput. The posterior division of the third nerve, like the others, divides into an internal and external branch. The internal branch passes between the Complexus and Semispinalis, and, piercing the Splenius and Trapezius, supplies the skin over the latter muscle ; the external branch joins with that of the posterior division of the second to supply the Splenius, Trachelo-mastoid, and Complexus. The third occipital nerve arises from the internal or cutaneous branch beneath the Trapezius; it then pierces that muscle, and supplies the skin on the lower and back part of the head. It lies to the inner side of the occipitalis major, with which it is connected. The posterior division of the suboccipital nerve and the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the second and third cervical nerves are occasionally