8io SYMPATHETIC NERVE Sacral „ . . 4 or 5 ,, ,, The great sciatic nerve is liable to be pressed upon by various forms of pelvic tumours, giving rise to pain along its trunk, to which the term sciatica is aj)plied. Tumours growing from the pelvic viscera, or bones, aneurisms of some of the branches of the internal iliac artery, calculus in the bladder when of large size, accumulation of faeces in the rectum, may all cause pressure on the nerve inside the pelvis, and give rise to sciatica. Outside the pelvis exposure to cold, violent movements of the hip-joint, exostoses or other tumours growing from the margin of the sacro-sciatic foramen, may also give rise to the same condi- tion. When paralysed there is loss of motion in all the muscles below the knee, and loss of sensation in the same situation, except the upper half of the back of the leg, supplied by the small sciatic and the upper half of the inner side of the leg, when the communicating branch of the obtiu-ator is large (see page 798). The sciatic nerve has been frequently cut down upon and stretched, or has been acu- punctured for the relief of sciatica. The nerve has also been stretched in cases of locomotor ataxy, the anaesthesia of leprosy, etc. In order to define it on the surface, a point is taken at the junction of the middle and lower third of a line stretching from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the outer part of the tuber ischii, and a line drawn from this to the middle of the upper part of the popliteal space. The line must be slightly- curved with its convexit}^ outwards, and as it passes downwards to the lower border of the Gluteus maximus is slightly nearer the tuber ischii than the great trochanter, as it bisects a line drawn between these two points. The operation of stretching the sciatic nerve is performed by making an incision over the course of the nerve about the centre of the thigh. The skin, superficial structures, and deep fascia having been divided, the interval between the inner and outer hamstrings is to be defined, and these muscles pulled inwards and outwards with retractors. The nerve will be found a little to the inner side of the Biceps. It is to be separated from the sarrounding structures, hooked up with the finger, and stretched by steady and continuous traction for two or three minutes. The sciatic nerve may also be stretched by what is known as the ' dry ' plan. The patient is laid on his back, the foot is extended, the leg fiexed on the thigh, and the thigh strongly fiexed on the abdomen. While the thigh is maintained in this position, the leg is forcibly extended to its full extent, and the foot as fully flexed on the leg. The position of the external popliteal, close behind the tendon of the Biceps on the outer side of the ham, should be remembered in subcutaneous division of the tendon. After it is divided, a cord otten rises up close beside it, which might be mistaken for a small undivided portion of the tendon, and the surgeon might be tempted to reintroduce his knife and divide it. This must never be done, as the cord is the external popliteal nerve, which becomes prominent as soon as the tendon is divided. THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE The Sympathetic Nervous System consists of (i) a series of ganglia, connected together by intervening cords, extending from the base of the skull to the coccyx, one on each side of the middle line of the body, partly in front and partly on each side of the vertebral column ; (2) of three great gangliated plexuses, or aggregations of nerves and ganglia, situated in front of the spine in the thoracic, abdominal, and pelvic cavities respectively; (3) of smaller ganglia situated in relation with the abdominal viscera; and (4) of numerous nerve-fibres. These latter are of two kinds : communicating, by w^hich the ganglia communicate with each other and with the cerebro-spinal nerves ; and distributory, supplying, in general, all the internal viscera and the coats of the blood-vessels. Each gangliated cord may be traced upwards from the base of the skull into its cavity by an ascending branch, which passes through the carotid canal, forms a plexus on the internal carotid artery, and communicates wdth the ganglia on the first and second divisions of the fifth nerve. According to some anatomists, the two cords are joined, at their cephalic extremities, by these ascending branches communicating in a small ganglion (the ganglion of Bibes), situated upon the anterior communicating artery. The ganglia of these cords are distinguished as cervical, dorsal, lumbar, and sacral, and except in the neck they correspond pretty nearly in number to the vertebrae against which they lie. They may be thus arranged :— Cervical portion . . 3 pairs of ganglia. Dorsal „ . . 12 „ Lmnbar . . 4 „