ANKLE-JOINT 355 Flexor longus digitorum, and Flexor longus hallncis. Flexion, by the Tibialis anticus, Peroneus tertius, Extensor longus digitorum, and Extensor proprius hallncis.* Adduction, in the extended position, is produced by the Tibialis anticus and posticus ; and abduction by the Peronei. S'lLvface Form.—The line of the ankle-joint may be indicated by a transverse line drawn across the front of the lower part of the leg, about half an inch above the level of the tip of the internal malleolus. SiLTgical Anatomy.—Displacement of the trochlear sm'-face of the astragalus from the tibio-fibular mortise is not of common occurrence, as the ankle-joint is a very strong and powerful articulation, and great force is required to produce it. Nevertheless, dislocation does occasionally occur, both in an antero-posterior and a lateral direction. In the latter, which is the most common, fracture is a necessary accompaniment of the injury. The dislocation in these cases is somewhat peculiar, and is not a displacement in a horizontally lateral direction, such as usually occurs in lateral dislocations of ginglymoid joints, but the astragalus undergoes a partial rotation round an antero-posterior axis drawn through its own centre, so that the superior surface, instead of being directed upwards, is inclined more or less inwards or outwards according to the variety of the displacement. Fig. 265.—Section of the right foot near its inner border, dividing the tibia, astragalus, navicular, internal cuneiform, and first metatarsal bone, and the first phalanx of the great toe. (After Braune.) The ankle-joint is more frequently sprained than any joint in the body, and this nia,y lead to acute synovitis. In these cases, when the synovial sac is distended with fluid, the bulging appears principally in the front of the joint, beneath the anterior tendons, and on either side, betw^een the Tibialis anticus and the internal lateral ligament on the inner side, and between the Peroneus tertius and the external lateral ligament on tlie outer side. In addition to this, bulging frequently occm^s posteriorly, and a fluctuati]ig sw^ellinti^ may be detected on either side of the tendo Achillis. Chronic synovitis may result from frequent sprains, and when once this joint has been sprained it is more liable to a recurrence of the injury than it was before ; or it may be tuber- cular in its origin, the disease usually commencing in the astragalus and extending to the joint, though it may commence as a tubercular synovitis the result probably of some slight strain in a tubercular subject. Excision of the ankle-joint is not often performed, for two reasons. In the first })lace, disease of the articulation for which this operation is indicated is frequently associated with disease of the tarsal bones, which prevents its performance ; and, secondly, the foot after excision is frequently of very little use ; far less, in fact, than after a Symes's amputation, which is often, therefore, a preferable operation in these cases. Excision may, however, be attempted in cases of tubercular arthritis, in a young and otherwise healthy subject, where the disease is limited to the bones forming the joint. It may also be required after injury, * The student must bear in mind that the Extensor longus digitorum and Extensor proprius hallncis are extensors of the toes, but flexors of the ankle ; and that the Flexor lont^us digitorum and Flexor longus hallucis are flexors of the toes, but extensors of the ankle. A A 2