399 PALATAL REGION The Circumflexus or Tensor palati is a broad, thin, riband-hke muscle, placed on the outer side of the Levator palati, and consisting of a vertical and a horizontal portion. The vertical portion arises by a broad, thin, and flat lamella from the scaphoid fossa at the base of the internal pterygoid plate ; from the spine of the sphenoid : the vaginal process of the temporal bone and the anterior aspect of the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube : descending vertically between the internal pterygoid plate and the inner surface of the Internal pterygoid muscle, it terminates in a tendon, which winds round the hamular process, being retained in this situation by some of the fibres of origin of the Internal pterygoid muscle, and lubricated by a bursa. The tendon or horizontal portion then passes horizontally inwards, and is inserted into a broad aponeurosis, the palatine apo- neitrosis, and into the transverse ridge on the horizontal portion of the palate bone. Relations.—Externally, with the Internal pterygoid. Internally, with the Levator palati from which it is separated by the Superior constrictor, and with the internal pterygoid plate. In the soft palate, its tendon and the palatine aponeurosis is anterior to that of the Levator palati, being covered by the Palato- glossus and the mucous membrane. Palatine Aponeurosis.—Attached to the posterior border of the hard palate is a thin, firm, fibrous lamella which supports the muscles and gives strength to the soft palate. It is thicker above than below, where it becomes very thin and difficult to define. Laterally, it is continuous with the pharyngeal aponeurosis. The Azygos uvulae is not a single muscle, as would be inferred from its name, but a pair of narrow cylindrical fleshy fasciculi, placed side by side in the median line of the soft palate. Each muscle arises from the posterior nasal spine of the palate bone, and from the contiguous tendinous aponeurosis of the soft palate, and descends to be inserted into the uvula. Relations.—Anteriorly, with the tendinous expansion of the Levatores palati; behind, with the posterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus and the mucous membrane. The two next muscles are exposed by removing the mucous membrane from the pillars of the soft palate throughout nearly their whole extent. The Palato-glossus (Constrictor isthmi faucium) is a small fleshy fasciculus, narrower in the middle than at either extremity, forming, with the mucous membrane covering its surface, the anterior pillar of the soft palate. It arises from the anterior surface of the soft palate on each side of the uvula, and, passing downwards, forwards, and outwards in front of the tonsil, is inserted into the side of the tongue, some of its fibres spreading over the dorsum, and others passing deeply into the substance of the organ to intermingle with the Transversus lingua. In the soft palate, the fibres of this muscle are continuous with those of the muscle of the opposite side. The Palato-pharyngeus is a long, fleshy fasciculus, narrower in the middle than at either extremity, forming, with the mucous membrane covering its surface, the posterior pillar of the soft palate. It is separated from the Palato-glossus by an angular interval, in which the tonsil is lodged. It arises from the soft palate by an expanded fasciculus, which is divided into two parts by the Levator palati and Azygos uvulae. The posterior fasciculus lies in contact with the mucous membrane, and also joins with the corresponding muscle in the middle line ; the anterior fasciculus, the thicker, lies in the soft palate between the Levator and Tensor, and joins in the middle line the corresi^onding part of the opposite muscle. Passing- outwards and downw^ards behind the tonsil, the Palato-pharyngeus joins the Stylo- pharyngeus, and is inserted with that muscle into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage, some of its fibres being lost on the side of the pharynx, and others passing across the middle line posteriorly, to decussate with the muscle of the opposite side. The Salpingo-pharyngeus.—This muscle arises from the inferior part of the