929 SUEGICAL ANATOMY flexure of the colon is situated behind the stomach in the left hvpochondrimii, and is on a higher level than the hepatic flexure. The descending colon is deeply seated, passing down through the left hypochondriac and lumbar regions to the sigmoid flexure, which is situated in the left inguinal regions and which can be felt in thin persons, with relaxed abdominal walls, rolling under the fingers when empty, and when distended forming a distinct tumour. Surgical Anatomy.—The small intestines are much exposed to injury, but, in consequence of their elasticity and the ease with which one fold glides over another, they are not so frequently ruptm^ed as would otherwise be the case. Any part of the small intestine may be ruptured, but probably the most common situation is the transverse duodenum, on account of its being more fixed than other portions of the bowel, and because it is situated in front of the bodies of the vertebrae, so that if this portion of the abdomen is struck by a sharp blow, as from the kick of a horse, it is unable to glide out of the way, but is compressed against the bone and so lacerated. Wounds of the intestine sometimes occur. If the wound is a small puncture, under, it is said, three lines in length, no extravasation of the contents of the bowel takes place. The mucous membrane becomes everted and plugs the little opening. The bowels, therefore, may be safely punctm^ed with a fine capillary trocar, in cases of excessive distension of the intestine with gas, without fear of extravasation. A longitudinal wound gapes more than a transverse, owing to the greater amount of circular muscular fibres. The small intestine, and most frequently the ileum, may become strangulated by internal bands, or through apertures, normal or abnormal. The bands may be formed in several different ways : they may be old peritoneal adhesions from previous attacks of peritonitis ; or an adherent omentum from the same cause ; or the band may be formed by Meckel's diverticulum, which has contracted adhesions at its distal extremity; or the band may be the result of the abnormal attachment of some normal structure, as the adhesion of tw'o appendices epiploicae, or an adherent vermiform appendix or Fallopian tube. Intussusception or invagmation of the small intestine may take place in any part of the jejunum and ileum, but the most frequent situation is at the ileo-caecal valve, the valve forming the apex of the entering tube. This form may attain great size, and it is not uncommon in these cases to find the valve projecting from the anus. Stricture, the impaction of foreign bodies, and twisting of the gut {volvulus) may lead to intestinal obstruction. Foreign bodies and small hardened masses of fsecal matter are very liable to become lodged in the vermiform appendix. Here they set up inflammation, often cause perforation of the appendix and formation of abscess in the loose connective tissue around. This may require operative interference, and in some cases of recurrent attacks of appendicitis this little diverticulum of the bowel has been removed. In external hernia the ileum is the portion of bowel most frequently herniated. When a part of the large intestine is involved it is usually the caecum, and this may occm* even on the left side. In some few cases the vermiform appendix has been the part implicated in cases of strangulated hernia, and has given rise to serious symptoms of obstruction. OccasionaUj' ulceration of the duodenal glands may occur in cases of burns, but is not a \e.v\ common complication. The ulcer may perforate one of the large duodenal vessels and may cause death from haemorrhage, or it may perforate the coats of the intestine and produce fatal acute peritonitis. The diameter of the large intestine gradually diminishes from the caecum, which has the greatest diameter of any part of the bowel, to the point of junction of the sigmoid flexure with the rectum, at or a little below which point stricture most commonly occurs and diminishes in frequency as one proceeds upwards to the caecum. When distended by some obstruction low down, the outline of the large intestine can be defined throughout nearly the whole of its course—all, in fact, except the hepatic and splenic flexm^es, which are more deeply placed; the distension is most obvious in the two flanks and on the front of the abdomen just above the mnbilicus. The caecum, however, is that portion of the bowel which is, of all, most distended. It sometimes assumes enormous dimensions, and has been known to be perforated from the pressure, causing fatal peritonitis. The hepatic flexure and the right extremity of the transverse colon is in close relationship with the liver, and abscess of this viscus sometimes bursts into the gut in this situation. The gall bladder may become adherent to the colon, and gall-stones may find their w^aj' through into the gut, where they may become impacted or may be discharged ^ev anum. The mobility of the sigmoid flexure renders it more liable to become the seat of a volvulus or twist than any other part of the intestine. It generally occurs in patients who have been the subjects of habitual constipation, and in whom therefore the meso-sigmoid flexm^e is elongated. The gut at this part being loaded with faeces, from its w^eight falls over the gut below, and so gives rise to the twist. The sm-gical anatomy of the rectum is of considerable importance. There may be congenital malformations due to arrest or imperfect development. Thus, there may be no inflection of the epiblast (see page 103), and consequently a complete absence of the anus ; or the hind-gut may be imperfectly developed, and there may be an absence of the rectum, though the anus is developed ; or the inflection of the epiblast may not communicate with the termination of the hind-gut from want of solution of continuity in the septum which in early foetal life exists between the two. The mucous membrane is thick and but loosely connected to the muscular coat beneath, and thus favours prolapse, especiallv in children. 30