846 OEGANS OF SENSE the inner surface of the retina by a conical base, the edges of the bases of adjoining- fibres being united and thus forming a boundary line, which is the membrana limitans interna. As they pass through the various layers, they present a roughness on their surface, as if a number of membranous processes had been abruptly broken off. By these they are continuous with the reticulum of the inner and outer molecular layer and with a sponge-like stroma, in which the nuclei of the inner nuclear layers are embedded. In the inner nuclear layer each fibre of Miiller presents a clear oval nucleus, referred to above, which is sometimes situated at the side of, sometimes altogether within the fibre. In the outer nuclear layer the fibre breaks up into fine lamellae, which form a fenestrated or sponge-like tissue, in which the rod and cone granules are enclosed, and at the outer border of this Fig. 495.—The layers of the retina (diagrammatic). (After Schultze.) PigmentaTij layer Jacob's viemhrane Menibrana limitans exteynia Fibre of Mulle) Outer nuclear layer Outer molecular layer Inner nuclear layer I)iiier molecular layer Vesicular layer Fibrous layer Membrana limitans interna layer these lamellae unite along a definite line, forming the membrana limitans externa. Macula lutea and fovea centralis.—The structure of the retina at the yellow spot presents some modifications. In the macula lutea (i) the nerve-fibres are wanting as a continuous layer; (2) the vesicular layer consists of several strata of cells, instead of a single layer; (3) in Jacob's membrane there are no rods, but only cones, and these are longer and narrower than in other parts ; and (4) in the outer nuclear layer there are only cone-fibres, which are very long and arranged in curved lines. At the fovea centralis the only parts which exist are the cones of Jacob's membrane ; the outer nuclear layer, the cone-fibres of which are almost horizontal in direction ; and an exceedingly thin inner granular layer. The colour of the spot seems to imbue all the layers except Jacob's membrane ; it is of a rich