75 FIKST RUDIMENTS OF THE EMBRYO The hyijohlast is mainly concerned in forming the internal epithelimn, viz. that of the whole alimentary passages except the mouth and a small portion of the rectum near the anus (which are formed by involutions of the epiblast); that of the respiratory tract, which is originally an offset from the alimentary canal; and the epithelium of all the glandular organs which open into the intestinal tract. The hypoblast forms also the deeper layer of the umbilical vesicle and allantois. Its cells are epithelial and are at first flattened, but subsequently become columnar and larger than those of the epiblast. All the rest of the embryo is formed from the mesoblast, viz. all the vascular and locomotive system, the cutis, all the connective tissues, and the genito-urinary organs, with the exception of the epithelium of the bladder and urethra, which is developed from the hypoblast. The vascular system of the foetus extends to the yolk and the maternal parts along the umbilical vesicle and allantois, so that the greater part of these bodies and the outer layer of the amnion are also formed out of the mesoblast. The foetal portion of the placenta, being essentially a vascular structure, is also developed from the mesoblast. Its cells are irregular and branched and surrounded by a considerable amount of intercellular fluid. It may therefore be regarded as resembling more closely embryonic connective tissue. First rudiments of the embryo (figs. 79 and 80).—The primitive trace alluded to above as appearing in the area germinativa, is a very transitory structure, which marks the direction of the embryonic axis, and is gradually lost in consequence of its place becoming occupied by the rudimentary spinal column. The first real approach towards a definite form in the embryo is made (i) by the development of the rudimentary spinal column; (2) by the cleavage of the middle layer of the blastodermic membrane from which a part of that column is derived ; and (3) by the incurvation of the column at its cephalic end to form the brain and brain-case. First, a folding up of the cells of the epiblast or outer layer takes place. This commences in the anterior part of the area germinativa and extends in the same direction as the primitive trace, gradually occupying its position until this latter is lost at the caudal extremity of the embryo (fig. 81). This folding up of the epiblast gives rise to a longitudinal groove down its centre, in consequence of the manner in which the cells of the epiblast are heaped up into two longitudinal ridges, with a furrow between them, so that the sides and base of the groove are formed of epiblastic cells (fig. 82, a). The mesoblast, lying between the epiblast and hypoblast, fills up the space thus caused between these two layers, so that the sides of the groove are occupied by a longitudinal thickening of mesoblast; the two masses being separated at the bottom of the groove by the junction of the epiblast and hypoblast at the situation of the primitive trace. The groove becomes deeper and deeper in consequence of the further growing up of the cells to form the ridge on either side. In this way the ridges eventually become two plates, the lamince dorsales or medullary plates, which finally coalesce and thus form a closed tube, the neural canal, lined by epiblast and having a covering of the same mem- brane (fig. 82). These membranes are at first in contact with one another, but eventually become separated, mesoblastic structures growing up between them and the line of coalescence becomes obliterated. The coalescence first takes place in the middle of the embryo, then towards the cephalic end, and lastly at the caudal extremity. The lining of this tube is developed into the nervous centres, the covering into the epidermis of the back and head. The cephalic extremity of the neural canal is soon seen to be more dilated than the rest, and to present constrictions dividing it imperfectly into three chambers : the brain is developed from this dilated portion ; the spinal cord takes its origin from the remainder of the tube. Below the neural canal, the hypoblast and epiblast are in contact, separating the two longitudinal thickenings of mesoblast on either side of the canal. Here a thickening of the hypoblast, commencing from the anterior end of the primitive trace, takes place and gradually separates itself off from the hypo- blast, lying between this membrane and the epiblast, at the bottom of the neural