88i DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH those more deeply placed join with the adjacent dental tubuli. In the thicker portions of the crusta petrosa, the lamellae and Haversian canals peculiar to bone are also found. As age advances, the cement increases in thickness, and gives rise to those bony growths, or exostoses, so common in the teeth of the aged; the pulp-cavity becomes also partially filled up by a hard substance, intermediate in structure between dentine and bone {osteo-dentine, Owen; secondary dentine, Tomes). It appears to be formed by a slow conversion of the dental pulp, which shrinks, or even disappears. Development of the Teeth In describing the development of the teeth, we have first to consider the mode of formation of the temporary or milk teeth, and then that of the permanent series. Development of the temporary teeth.—The development of these teeth in the foetus begins at a very early period. About the seventh week, the margin of the jaw presents a slight longitudinal depression or groove, with rounded borders. This is termed the jjrimitive dental groo ve of Goodsir, and is caused by an involution of the epithelium of the oral cavity into the subjacent connective tissue. The projecting borders of the groove are called the dental ridges. The groove consists, therefore, superficially, of a collection of epithelial cells, beneath which is a gelatinous connective tissue, which is taken to represent the corium and connective tissue of the mucous membrane ; and deeper than this is the ossifying substance of the jaw. The essential structures of the teeth are derived from these elements : the enamel from the epithelium which covers the surface of the dental groove ; the dentine and crusta petrosa from the deeper structures. First, as to the enamel. The primitive dental groove increases in size by the growing up of the corium in front and behind, and is filled up and covered in by the epithelium, which becomes greatly increased in quantity, so that the groove is only indicated by a shallow superficial furrow. Secondary ridges of corium rise at intervals along the floor of the groove, dividing it into a series of pits. As the dental ridges—that is to say, the sides of the groove—rise up, epithelial masses are contained within the separate pits ; these are called enamel germs, and seem to pass deeper and deeper into the substance of the jaw, and at last meet with the papilla, presently to be described. The lower part of these masses of epithelial cells—that is, the part farthest from the margin of the jaw—spreads out in all directions, and the epithelial cells here increase in number. Each mass thus assumes a flask shape, which is connected by a narrow neck, embraced by the dental ridges, with the epithelial lining of the mouth. It may now be compared to a tubular gland, consisting of a dilated extremity filled with epithelium and opening by a narrow duct, also filled with epithelium, on the margin of the jaw. This narrow, constricted portion is called the nech of the enamel organ, and is of importance as being the part from which the enamel organ of the future permanent tooth is derived. The lower expanded portion of the mass of epithelial cells, the body of the flask, now inclines outwards so as to form an angle with the neck or more superficial part. In the soft connective tissue beneath this mass of epithelial cells, small papillae, corresponding in number to the pits in the primitive dental groove, arise by an increased development and growth of the corpuscles of the part. They grow upwards, become vascular, and come in contact with the epithelial cells of the enamel germ, and are received into dimples on its under surface. By continued growth they push their way up into the enamel germs, which become folded over them like a hood or cap. We have then, at this stage, vascular papillae which have already begun to assume somewhat the shape of the crowns of the future teeth, surmounted by domes or caps of epithelial cells, which were originally the cells contained in the lower or expanded part of the flask-shaped masses in the primitive dental groove (fig. 515). These cells now undergo a differentiation into three classes or varieties. Those which are in contact with the papilla and which are continuous 3L