SEVENTH. FACIAL 755 The facial nerve, firmer, rounder, and smaller than the auditory, passes forwards and outwards upon the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, and enters the internal auditory meatus with the auditory nerve. Within the meatus, the facial nerve lies first to the inner side of the auditory, and then in a groove upon that nerve. The pars intermedia is placed between the facial and auditory nerves in the internal auditory meatus ; a few of its fibres frequently pass into the auditory nerve, while the remainder join the facial. At the bottom of the meatus it is connected to this nerve by one or two slender filaments. At the bottom of the meatus, the facial nerve enters the aqueductus Fallopii, and follows the serpentine course of that canal through the petrous portion of the temporal bone, from its commencement at the internal meatus, to its termination at the stylo-mastoid foramen. It is at first directed outwards towards the inner wall of the tympanum, where it forms a reddish gangiiform swelling {intumescentia ganglioformis, or geniculate ganglion), and is joined by several nerves ; then bending suddenly backwards, it runs in the internal wall of the tympanum, above the fenestra ovalis, and at the back of that cavity passes vertically downwards behind the tympanum to the stylo-mastoid foramen. On emerging from this aperture, it runs forwards in the substance of the parotid gland, crosses the external carotid artery, and divides behind the ramus of the lower jaw into two primary branches, tempoTo-facial and cervico-facial, from which numerous offsets are distributed over the side of the head, face, and upper part of the neck, supplying the superficial muscles in these regions. As the primary branches and their offsets diverge from each other, they present somewhat the appearance of a bird's claw ; hence the name of j;es anserinus is given to the divisions of the facial nerve in and near the parotid gland. The communications of the facial nerve may be thus arranged :— In the internal auditory meatus . With the auditory nerve. ^With Meckel's ganglion by the large superficial petrosal nerve. With the otic ganglion by the small superficial petrosal nerve. With the sympathetic on the middle meningeal by the external superficial petrosal nerve. 1 With the glosso-pharyngeal. I pneumogastric. At its exit from the stylo-mastoid 4 „ carotid plexus. foramen . . . . auricularis magnus. ' ,, auriculo-temporal. On the face . . . . . With the three divisions of the fifth. In the internal auditory meatus some minute filaments pass between the facial and auditory nerves. Opposite the hiatus Fallopii, the gangiiform enlargement on the facial nerve communicates with Meckel's ganglion by means of the large superficial petrosal nerve, which forms its motor root; with the otic ganglion, by the small superficial petrosal nerve ; and with the sympathetic filaments accompanying the middle meningeal artery, by the external petrosal (Bidder). From the gangiiform enlarge- ment, according to Arnold, a twig is sent back to the auditory nerve. At its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, it sends a twig to the glosso- pharyngeal, another to the pneumogastric nerve, and communicates with the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, with the great auricular branch of the cervical plexus, with the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve in the parotid gland, and on the face with the terminal branches of the three divisions of the fifth. In the aqueductus Fallopii 3 c 2