LACHRYMAL APPARATUS The lachrymal sac is the upper dilated extremity of the nasal duct, and is lodged in a deep groove formed by the lachrymal bone and nasal process of the superior maxillary. It is oval in form, its upper extremity being closed in and rounded, whilst below it is continued into the nasal duct. It is covered by a fibrous expansion derived from the tendo oculi, and on the inner side it is crossed by the Tensor tarsi muscle (Horner's muscle, page 371) which is attached to the ridge on the lachrymal bone. Structure.—It consists of a fibrous elastic coat, lined internally by mucous membrane : the latter being continuous, through the lachrymal canals, with the mucous lining of the conjunctiva, and through the nasal duct with the pituitary membrane of the nose. The nasal duct is a membranous canal, about three-quarters of an inch in length, w^hich extends from the lower part of the lachrymal sac to the inferior meatus of the nose, where it terminates by a somewhat expanded orifice, provided with an imperfect valve, the valve of Hasner, formed by the mucous membrane. It is contained in an osseous canal, formed by the superior maxillary, the lachrymal, and the inferior turbinated bones, is narrower in the middle than at each extremity, and takes a direction downwards, backwards, and a little outwards. It is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous below with the pituitary lining of the nose. This membrane in the lachrymal sac and nasal duct is covered with cihated epithelium as in the nose. S'lirface Form.—The palpebral fissure, or opening between the eyelids, is elliptical in shape, and differs in size in different individuals and in different races of mankind. In the Mongolian races, for instance, the opening is very small, merely a narrow fissure, and this makes the eyeball appear small in these races, whereas the size of the eye is relatively very constant. The normal direction of the fissm'-e is slightly oblique, in a direction upwards and.outwards, so that the outer angle is on a slightly higher level than the inner. This is especially noticeable in the Mongolian races, in whom, owing to the upward projection of the malar bone and the shortness of the external angular process of the frontal bone, the tarsal plate of the upper lid is raised at its outer part, and gives an oblique direction to the palpebral fissure. When the eyes are directed forwards, as in ordinary vision, the upper part of the cornea is covered by the upper lid, and the lower margin of the cornea corresponds to the level of the lower lid, so that about the lower three-fourths of the cornea is exposed under ordinary circumstances. On the margins of the lids, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, are two small openings, the pimcta lachrymalia, the commencement of the lachrymal canals. They are best seen by everting the eyelids. In the natural condition they are in contact with the conjunctiva of the eyei3all, and are maintained in this position by the Tensor tarsi muscle, so that the tears running over the surface of the globe easily find their way into the lachrymal canals. The position of the lachrymal sac into which the canals open is indicated by a little tubercle (page 195), which is plainly to be felt on the lower margin of the orbit. The lachrymal sac lies immediately above and to the inner side of this tubercle, and a knife passed through the skin in this situation would open the cavity. The position of the lachrymal sac may also be indicated by the tendo oculi, or internal tarsal ligament. If both lids be drawn outwards so as to tense the skin at the inner angle, a prominent cord will be seen beneath the tightened skin. This is the tendo oculi, which lies immediately over the lachrymal sac, bisecting it, and thus forming a useful guide to its situation. A knife entered immediately beneath the tense cord would open the lower part of the sac. A probe introduced through this opening can be readily passed downwards through the duct into the inferior meatus of the nose. The direction of the duct is downwards, outwards, and backwards, and this course should be borne in mind in passing the probe, otherwise the point may be driven through the thin bony walls of the canal. A convenient plan is to direct the probe in such a manner, that if it were pushed onwards it would strike the first molar tooth of the lower jaw on the same side of the body. In other words, the surgeon standing in front of his patient should carry in his mind the position of the first molar tooth, and should push his probe onwards in such a way as if he desired to reach this structure. Beneath the internal angular process of the frontal bone, the pulley of the Superior oblique muscle of the eye can be plainly felt by pushing the finger backwards between the upper and inner angle of the eye and the roof of the orbit; passing backwards and outwards from this pulley the tendon can be felt for a short distance. Surgical Anatomy.—The eyelids are composed of various tissues, and consequently are liable to a variety of diseases. The skin which covers them is exceedingly thin and delicate, and is supported on a quantity of loose and lax subcutaneous tissue, which contains no fat. In consequence of this it is very freely movable, and is liable to be