ORGANS OF DIGESTION 884 teeth ', and ( 2) those which have no temporary predecessors, but are superadded at the back of the dental series. These are three in number on either side in each jaw, and are termed the superadded immanent teeth. They are the three molars of the permanent set, the molars of the temporary set being replaced by the pre- molars or bicuspids of the permanent set. The development of the successional permanent teeth—the ten anterior ones in either jaw—will be first considered. In the neck of the enamel organ of the temporary tooth, prior to the meeting of the two dental ridges and the obliteration of this portion of the primitive dental groove, an indentation of the epithelium takes i^lace in the layer of cells forming the posterior wall of the neck of the sac. This forms a groove or indentation, similar to the groove in the oral epithelium of the margin of the jaw which formed the primitive dental groove, and from its resemblance is termed by Goodsir the secondary dental groove. These grooves or depressions are ten in number in each jaw, and are formed successively from before backwards. They become filled with epithelial cells, and recede into the substance of the gum behind the germs of the temporary teeth. They constitute the enamel germs of the permanent teeth. As they recede they become flask-shaped, from an expansion of their distal extremity, and finally meet a papilla, which has been formed in the corium, just in the same manner as was the case in the temporary teeth. The apex of the papilla indentates the enamel germ, which encloses it and, forming a cap for it, undergoes analogous changes to those described in the development of the milk teeth and becomes converted into the enamel; whilst the papilla forms the dentine of the permanent tooth. In its development it becomes enclosed in a dental sac which adheres to the back of the sac of the temporary tooth. The sac of each permanent tooth remams connected with the fibrous tissue of the gum by a slender band or guber- naculum, which passes to the margin of the jaw behind the corresponding milk tooth. The superadded permanent teeth—^three on each side in each jaw—arise from successive extensions backwards of the back part of the enamel germ of the immediately preceding tooth. During the fourth month, that portion of the enamel germ of the last temporary molar tooth which lies behind the tooth, and which has remained unaltered, is prolonged backwards and forms the enamel germ of the first permanent molar into which a papilla projects. From this tooth, in a similar manner, about the seventh month after birth, the second molar is formed ; and, about the third year, the third molar is formed by an extension backwards of the enamel germ of the second molar. Eruption.—When the calcification of the different tissues of the tooth is sufficiently advanced to enable it to bear the pressure to which it will be afterwards subjected, its eruption takes place ; the tooth making its way through the gum. The gum is absorbed by the pressure of the crown of the tooth against it, which is itself pressed up by the increasing size of the fang. At the same time the septa between the dental sacs, at first fibrous in structure, ossify, and constitute the alveoli; these firmly embrace the necks of the teeth, and aftbrd them a solid basis of support. The eruption of the temporary teeth commences at the seventh month, and is complete about the end of the second year, those of the lower jaw preceding the upper. The periods for the eruption of the temporary set are— yth month, central incisors. 12th to 14th month, anterior molars, yth to loth month, lateral incisors. 14th to 20th month, canine. 18th to 36th month, posterior molars. Calcification of the permanent teeth commences a little before birth, and proceeds in the following order in the upper jaw ; in the lower jaw a little earlier :— First molar, fifth or sixth month ; the central incisor, a little later ; lateral incisors and canine, about the eighth or ninth month ; the bicuspids at the second year; second molar, fifth or sixth year; wisdom-tooth about the twelfth year.