36 GENEEAL ANATOMY Fig, 42.—Anastomosing mus- cular fibres of the heart seen in a longitudinal section. On the right the limits of the separate cells with their nuclei are exhibited somewhat dia- grammatically. between the bundles of fibres is much less than in ordinary striped muscle, and no sarcolemma has been proved to exist. The cajnllaries of striped muscle are very abundant, and form a sort of rect- angular netwwk, the branches of which run longitudinally in the endomysium between the muscular fibres, and are joined at short intervals by transverse anastomosing branches. The larger vascular channels, arteries and veins, are found only in the perimysium, between the muscular fasciculi. The smaller vessels present peculiar saccular dilatations, which are supposed to act as receptacles for the blood during the contraction of the muscular fibres, wdien it is pressed out from some of the capillaries. Nerves are profusely distributed to striped muscle. The mode of their termination wall be described on a subsequent page. The existence of lymphatic vessels in striped muscle has not been ascertained, though they have been found in tendons and in the sheath of the muscle. The unstriped muscle, or muscle of organic life, is found in the walls of the hollow viscera— \iz. the lower half of the oesophagus and the whole of the remainder of the gastro-intestinal tube ; in the trachea and bronchi, and the alveoli and inf undibula of the lungs ; in the gall-bladder and ductus communis choledochus ; in the large ducts of the salivary and pancreatic glands ; in the pelvis and calices of the kidney, the ureter, bladder and urethra ; in the female sexual organs—viz. the ovary, the Fallopian tubes, the uterus (enormously developed in pregnancy), the vagina, the broad ligaments, and the erectile tissue of the clitoris ; in the male sexual organs—viz. the dartos scroti, the vas deferens and epididymis, the vesiculae seminales, the prostate gland, and the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum ; in the ducts of certain glands, as in Wharton's duct ; in the capsule and trabeculae of the spleen; in the mucous membranes, forming the muscularis mucosaB ; in the skin, forming the arrectores pilorum, and also in the sweat-glands; in the arteries, veins, and lymphatics; in the iris and the ciliary muscle. Plain or unstriped muscular fibre is made up of spindle-shaped cells, called contractile fibre-cells, collected into bundles and held together by a cement-sub- stance, in which are contained some connective-tissue corpuscles (fig. 43). These bundles are further aggregated into larger bundles, or flattened bands, and bound together by ordinary connective tissue. The contractile fibre-cells (fig. 44) are elongated, spindle-shaped, nucleated cells of various lengths, averaging from to 3^ of an inch in length, and 4^0-0 to 3^5^00" of an inch in breadth. On transverse section they are more or less polyhedral in shape, from mutual pressure. They present a faintly longitudinal striated appearance, and consist of an elastic cell-wall containing a central bundle of fibrillse, representing the contractile substance, and an oval or rod-like nucleus, which includes, within a membrane, a fine network communicating at the poles of the nucleus with the contractile fibres (Klein). The adhesive interstitial substance, which connects the fibre-cells together, represents the endomysium, or delicate connective tissue which binds the fibres of striped muscular tissue into fasciculi; while the tissue connecting the individual bundles together represents the peri- mysium. The unstriped muscle, as a rule, is not under the control of the will, nor is the contraction rapid and involving the whole muscle, as is the case with the muscles of animal life. The membranes which are composed of the unstriped muscle slowdy contract in a part of their extent, generally under the influence of