THE SKELETON 174 I Mylo-hyoid muscle: the Superior constrictor of the pharynx with the pterygo- maxillary hgament, being attached above its posterior extremity, near the alveolar margin. The portion of bone above this ridge is smooth, and covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth ; the portion below presents an oblong depression, the suhnaxillary fossa, wider behind than in front, for the lodgment of the sub- maxillary gland. The external oblique line and the internal or mylo-hyoidean line divide the body of the bone into a superior or alveolar and an inferior or basilar portion. The superior or alveolar border is wider, and its margins thicker, behind than in front. It is hollowed into numerous cavities, for the reception of the teeth ; these cavities are sixteen in number, and vary in depth and size according to the j teeth which they contain. To its outer side, the Buccinator muscle is attached as ! far forward as the first molar tooth. The inferior border is rounded, longer than the superior and thicker in front than behind; it presents a shallow groove, just ! where the body joins the ramus, over which the facial artery turns. j The Perpendicular Portions, or Rami, are of a quadrilateral form. Each Fig. 167.—Inferior maxillary bone. Inner surface. Side view. ' Articulation with temjioral presents for examination two surfaces, four borders, and two processes. The'^ external surface is flat, marked wdth ridges, and gives attachment throughout nearly the whole of its extent to the Masseter muscle. The internal surface presentsi about its centre the oblique aperture of the inferior dental canal, for the passage} of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. The margin of this opening is irregular ; it presents in front a prominent ridge, surmounted by a sharp spine, the linguhy ■ which gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, and at its lower and back part a notch leading to a groove, the viylo-Jiyoiclean, which runs obliquely downwards to the back part of the submaxillary fossa, and lodges thei mylo-hyoid vessels and nerve. Behind the groove is a rough surface, for thei insertion of the Internal pterygoid muscle. The inferior dental canal runs obliquel}i downwards and forwards in the substance of the ramus, and then horizontall}^ forwards in the body; it is here placed under the alveoli, with Avhich it communi ) cates by small openings. On arriving at the incisor teeth, it turns back t( communicate with the mental foramen, giving off two small canals, which rur forward, to be lost in the cancellous tissue of the bone beneath the incisor teeth This canal, in the posterior two-thirds of the bone, is situated nearer the interna : surface of the jaw; and in the anterior third, nearer its external surface. Itf|!