1061 POUPART'S LIGAMENT The Fascia Lata has been ah-eady described with the muscles of the front of the thigh (page 485). At the upper and inner part of the thigh, a httle below Poupart's ligament, a large oval-shaped aperture is observed after the superficial fascia has been cleared away ; it transmits the internal saphenous vein and other smaller vessels, and is called the saphenoiis openmg. In order the more correctly to consider the mode of formation of this aperture, the fascia lata in this part of the thigh is described as consisting of two portions, an iliac portion and a pubic portion. The iliac jjortion is all that part of the fascia lata on the outer side of the saphenous opening. It is attached externally to the crest of the ilium and its anterior superior spine ; to the whole length of Poupart's ligament as far internally as the spine of the os pubis; and to the pectineal line in conjunction with Gimbernat's ligament. From the spine of the os pubis it is reflected downwards and outwards, forming an arched margin, the outer boundary, or falciform process or superior cornu of the saphenous opening. This margin overlies and is adherent to the anterior layer of the sheath of the femoral vessels; to its edge is attached the cribriform fascia, and, below, it is continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The imhic 'portion of the fascia lata is situated at the inner side of the saphenous opening : at the lower margin of this aperture it is continuous with the iliac portion : traced upwards, it covers the surface of the Pectineus, Adductor longus, and Gracilis muscles ; and, passing behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, to which it is closely united, is continuous with the sheath of the Psoas and Iliacus muscles, and is attached above to the ilio-pectineal line, where it becomes continuous with the fascia covering the Iliacus muscle. From this description it may be observed that the iliac portion of the fascia lata passes in front of the femoral vessels and the pubic portion behind them, so that an apparent aperture consequently exists between the two, through which the internal saphenous joins the femoral vein. The Saphenous Opening is an oval-shaped aperture, measuring about an inch and a half in length, and half an inch in width. It is situated at the upper and inner part of the front of the thigh, below Poupart's ligament, and is directed obliquely downwards and outwards. Its outer margin is of a semilunar form, thin, strong, sharply defined, and lies on a plane considerably anterior to the inner margin. If this edge is traced upwards, it will be seen to form a curved elongated process, the falciform process, or superior cornu, which ascends in front of the femoral vessels, and, curving inwards, is attached to Poupart's ligament and to the spine of the os pubis and pectineal line, where it is continuous with the pubic portion. If traced down- wards, it' is found continuous with another curved margin, the concavity of which is directed upwards and inwards : this is the inferior cornu of the saphenous opening, and is blended with the pubic portion of the fascia lata covering the Pectineus muscle. The inner boundary of the opening is on a plane posterior to the outer margin and behind the level of the femoral vessels ; it is much less prominent and defined than the outer, from being stretched over the subjacent Pectineus muscle. It is through the saphenous opening that a femoral hernia passes after descending along the crural canal. If the finger is introduced into the saphenous opening while the limb is moved in different directions, the aperture will be found to be greatly constricted on extending the limb or rotating it outwards, and to be relaxed on flexing the limb and inverting it : hence the necessity for placing the limb in the latter position in employing the taxis for the reduction of a femoral hernia. The iliac portion of tlie fascia lata, but not its falciform process, should now be removed by detaching it from the lower margin of Poupart's ligament, carefully dissecting it from the subjacent structures, and turning it inwards, when the sheath of the femoral vessels is exposed descending beneath Poupart's ligament (hg. 628). Poupart's Ligament, or the Crural Arch, is the lower border of the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle, which extends from the anterior superior spine of