THE SKELETON 248 being bent inwards anteriorly, outwards posteriorly. It is longer in the female than in the male, very thick behind, and thinner at the centre than at the extre- mities. It terminates at either end in a prominent eminence, the an terior superior and posterior superior spinous process. The surface of the crest is broad, and divided into an external lip, an internal lip, and an intermediate space. To the external lip is attached the Tensor vaginpe femoris, Obliquus externus abdominis, and Latissimus dorsi, and by its whole length the fascia lata ; to the space between the lips, the Internal oblique; to the internal lip, the Transversalis, Quadratus lumborum, and Erector spinje, the Iliacus, and the fascia iliaca. The anterior border of the ilium is concave. It presents two projections, separated by a notch. Of these, the uppermost, situated at the junction of the crest and anterior border, is called the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, the outer border of which gives attachment to the fascia lata, and the origin of the Tensor vaginae femoris; its inner border, to the Iliacus; whilst its extremity affords attachment to Poupart's ligament and the origin of the Sartorius. Beneath this eminence is a notch which gives attachment to the Sartorius muscle, and across which passes the external cutaneous nerve. BeloAV the notch is the anterior inferior spinous process, which terminates in the upper lip of the acetabulum; it gives attachment to the straight tendon of the Eectus femoris muscle and the ilio-femoral Ligament. On the inner side of the anterior inferior spinous process is a broad, shallow groove, over which passes the Iliacus muscle. This groove is bounded internally by an eminence, the ilio-pectineal, which marks the point of union of the ilium and os pubis. The posterior border of the ilium, shorter than the anterior, also presents two projections separated by a notch, posterior superior and the posterior inferior spinous processes. The former corresponds with that portion of the posterior surface of the ilium which serves for the attachment of the oblique portion of the sacro-iliac ligaments and the Multifidus spinae; the latter to the auricular portion which articulates with the sacrum. Below the posterior inferior spinous process is a deep notch, the great s aero-sciatic. The Ischium forms the lower and back part of the os innominatum. It is divisible into a thick and solid portion, the body ; a large, rough eminence, on which the body rests in sitting, the tuberosity ; and a thin, ascending part, the ramus. The body, somewhat triangular in form, presents three surfaces, external, internal, and posterior ; and three borders, external, internal, and posterior. The external surface corresponds to that portion of the acetabulum formed by the ischium ; it is smooth and concave, and forms a little more than two-fifths of the acetabular cavity; its outer margin is bounded by a prominent rim or lip, the external border, to which the cotyloid fibro-cartilage is attached. Below the acetabulum, between it and the tuberosity, is a deep groove, along which the tendon of the Obturator externus muscle runs, as it passes outwards to be inserted into the digital fossa of the femur. The internal surface is smooth, concave, and enters into the formation of the lateral boundary of the true pelvic cavity. This surface is perforated by two or three large, vascular foramina, and affords attachment to part of the Obturator internus muscle. The posterior surface is quadrilateral in form, broad and smooth. Below, where it joins the tuberosity, it presents a groove continuous with that on the external surface, for the tendon of the Obturator externus muscle. The lower edge of this groove is formed by the tuberosity of the ischium, and affords attachment to the Gemellus inferior muscle. This surface is limited, in front, by the margin of the acetabulum ; behind, by the posterior border ; it supports the Pyriformis, the two Gemelli, and the Obturator internus muscles, in their passage outwards to the great trochanter. The external border forms the prominent rim. of the acetabulum, and separates the posterior from the external surface. To it is attached the cotyloid fibro-cartilage. The internal border is thin, and forms the outer circumference of the obturator foramen. The posterior border of the body of the ischium presents, a little below the centre, a thin and pointed, triangular eminence, the spine of the ischium, more or less elongated in