DEVELOPMENT OF THE EAR 93 ■ with a vascular membraue—the vascular capsule of the lens, which is connected with the termination of the temporary artery (hyaloid) that forms the continua- tion of the central artery of the retina through the vitreous chamber. This vascular capsule of the crystalline lens forms the membrana pupillaris (described on a subsequent page), and also attaches the borders of the iris to the capsule of the lens. It disappears about the seventh month. The eyelids are formed at the end of the third month, as small cutaneous folds, which come together and unite in front of the globe and cornea. This union is broken up and the eyelids separate before the end of foetal life. The lachrymal canal appears to result from the non-closure of a fissure which exists between the lateral plates of the fronto-nasal and maxillary processes. Born, i however, considers that it is formed by a thickening of the deeper layer of the epidermis which sinks into the corium and subsequently becomes hollowed out into a tube. Development of the Ear.—The first rudiment of the ear appears shortly after that of the eye, in the form of a thickening of the epiblast, on the outside of that ' part of the third primary cerebral vesicle which eventually forms the medulla oblongata, opposite the dorsal end of the second pharyngeal arch. The thickening is then followed by an involution of the epiblast, which becomes deeper and deeper, sinking towards the base of the skull, and a flask-shaped cavity is formed ; by the narromng of the external aperture the neck of the flask constitutes the recessus labyrinthi. The mouth of the flask then becomes closed, and thus a shut sac is I formed, t\iQ primitive auditory or otic vesicle, which by its sinking inwards comes to be placed between the ali-sphenoid and basi-occipital matrices. From it the internal ear is formed. The middle ear and the Eustachian tube are developed ' from the remains of the first branchial cleft, while the pinna and external meatus are developed from the soft parts overhanging the posterior margin of the same cleft. ! The primary otic vesicle becomes embedded in a mass of mesoblastic tissue, which rapidly undergoes chondrification and ossification. It, as before stated, is at first flask- or pear-shaped ; the neck of the flask, or recessus lahyrinthi, prolonged back- wards, forms the aquaeductus vestibuli. From it are given off certain prolongations or diverticula, from which the various parts of the labyrinth are formed. One from the anterior end gradually elongates, and, forming a tube, bends on itself from left to right and becomes the cochlea. Three others, which appear on the surface of the vesicle, form the semicircular canals. Of these, the one which is to I constitute the external semicircular canal does not appear at such an early date as ! the other two. Subsequently, a constriction takes place in the original vesicle, j which, gradually increasing, divides it into two, and from these are formed the : utricle and saccule. Finally, the auditory nerve, which has been developed from i the 'neural crest' in the manner above described (page 91), pierces the auditory capsule in two main divisions—one for the vestibule, the other for the cochlea. [ The middle ear and Eustachian tube are the remains of the first pharyngeal or I branchial cleft (hyo-mandibular), and are, from an early period, closed by the formation of the membrana tympani, which consists of a layer of epiblast exter- nally, a layer of hypoblast internally, and between the tw^o of mesoblastic tissue constituting its fibrous and vascular layer. With regard to the exact mode of development of the ossicles of the middle ear there is considerable difference of opinion. By some the malleus is believed to be developed from the proximal end j of the mandibular (Meckel's) cartilage, and the incus from the proximal end of the hyoidean cartilage. Others, again, believe that they are both developed from the mandibular cartilage. A third group of observers believe that they are developed from a hyo-mandibular cartilage, similar to that w^hich in some of the loAver 1 animals forms a suspensory apparatus for both mandibular and hyoidean arches. The stapes is believed by some to be formed by a deposit of cartilaginous cells I around the fenestra ovalis ; by others it is supposed to be developed from the proximal end of the hyoidean arch. The external auditory meatus is developed, liKe the pinna, from the soft parts