I024 MALE OEGANS OF GENEEATION • Surgical Anatomy.—The scrotum forms an admirable covering for the protection of the testicle. This body, lying suspended and loose in the cavity of the scrotmri and surrounded by a serous membrane, is capable of great mobility, and can therefore easily slip about within the scrotum, and thus avoid injuries from blows or squeezes. The skin of the scrotum is very elastic and capable of great distension, and on account of the looseness and amount of subcutaneous tissue, the scrotum becomes greatly enlarged in cases of oedema, to which this part is especially liable on account of its dependent position. The scrotum is frequently the seat of epithelioma ; this is no doubt due to the rugae on its surface, which favour the lodgment of dirt, and this, causing irritation, is the exciting cause of the disease, which is especially common in chimney-sw^eeps from the lodgment of soot. The scrotum is also the part most frequently affected by elephantiasis. On account of the looseness of the subcutaneous tissue, considerable extravasations of blood may take place from very slight injuries. It is therefore generally recommended never to apply leeches to the scrotum, since they may lead to considerable ecchymosis, but rather to puncture one or more of the superficial veins of the scrotum in cases where local blood-letting from this part is judged to be desirable. The muscular fibre in the dartos causes contraction and considerable diminution in the size of a wound of the scrotum, as after the operation of castration, and is of assistance in keeping the edges together, and covering the exposed parts. The Testes The Testes are suspended in the scrotum by the spermatic cords. As the left spermatic cord is rather longer than the right one, the left testicle hangs somewhat lower than its fellow. Each gland is of an oval form, compressed laterally, and having an oblique position in the scrotum; the upper extremity being directed forwards and a little outwards ; the lower, backwards and a little inwards; the anterior convex border looks forwards and downwards; the posterior or straight border, to which the cord is attached, backwards and upwards. The anterior and lateral surfaces, as well as both extremities of the organ, are convex, free, smooth, and invested by the tunica vaginalis. The posterior border, to which the cord is attached, receives only a partial investment from that mem- brane. Lying upon the outer edge of this posterior border is a long, narrow, flattened body, named, from its relation to the testis, the epididymis (StSu/xos, testis). It consists of a central portion, or body, an upper enlarged extremity, the globus major, or head; and a lower pointed extremity, the tail, or globus minor. The globus major is intimately connected with the upper end of the testicle by means of its efferent ducts ; and the globus minor is connected with its lower end by cellular tissue, and a reflection of the tunica vaginalis. The outer surface and upper and lower ends of the epididymis are free and covered by serous membrane ; the body is also completely invested by it, excepting along its posterior border. The epididymis is connected to the back of the testis by a fold of the serous mem- brane. Attached to the upper end of the testis, or to the epididymis, are one or more small pedunculated bodies. One of them is pretty constantly found between the globus major of the epididymis and the testicle, and is believed to be the remains of the upper extremity of the Miillerian duct (page 107). It is termed the hydatid of Morgagni. When the testicle is removed from the body, the position of the vas deferens, on the posterior surface of the testicle and inner side of the epididymis, marks the side to which the gland has belonged. Size and weight.—The average dimensions of this gland are from one and a half to two inches in length, one inch in breadth, and an inch and a quarter in the antero-posterior diameter; and the weight varies from six to eight drachms, the left testicle being a little the larger. The testis is invested by three tunics, the tunica vaginalis, tunica albuginea, and tunica vasculosa. The Tunica Vaginalis is the serous covering of the testis. It is a pouch of serous membrane, derived from the peritoneum during the descent of the testis in the foetus, from the abdomen into the scrotum. After its descent, that portion of the pouch which extends from the internal ring to near the upper part of the gland becomes obliterated, the lower portion remaining as a shut sac, which invests the outer surface of the testis, and is reflected on to the internal surface of the