1033 THE BLADDER The Clitoris is an erectile structure, analogous to the corpora cavernosa of the penis. It is situated beneath the anterior commissure, partially hidden between the anterior extremities of the labia minora. It is connected to the rami of the os pubis and ischium on each side by a crus ; the body is short and concealed beneath the labia ; the free extremity, or glans cUtoridis, is a small rounded tubercle, consisting of spongy erectile tissue, and highly sensitive. It is provided, like the penis, with a suspensory ligament, and with two small muscles, the Erectores clitoridis, which are inserted into the crura of the clitoris. The clitoris consists of two corpora cavernosa, composed of erectile tissue enclosed in a dense layer of fibrous membrane, united together along their inner surfaces by an incomplete fibrous pectiniform septum. Between the clitoris and the entrance of the vagina is a triangular smooth surface, bounded on each side by the nymphse ; this is the vestibule. The orifice of the urethra (meatus urinarius) is situated at the back part of the vestibule, about an inch below the clitoris, and near the margin of the vagina, surrounded by a prominent elevation of the mucous membrane. Below the meatus urinarius is the orifice of the vagina, more or less closed in the virgin by a membranous fold, the hymen. The Hymen is a membranous fold which closes to a greater or less extent the opening of the vagina. It varies much in shape. Its commonest form is that of a ring, generally broadest posteriorly : sometimes it is represented by a semilunar fold, with its concave margin turned towards the pubes. A complete septum stretched across the lower part of the vaginal orifice is called ' imperforate hymen.' Occasionally it is cribriform, or its free margin forms a membranous fringe, or it may be entirely absent. It may persist after copulation, so that it cannot be considered as a test of virginity. After parturition, the small rounded elevations known as the carunculcB myrtiformes are found as the remains of the hymen. Grlands of Bartholin.—On each side of the commencement of the vagina, and behind the hymen, is a round or oblong body, of a reddish-yellow colour, and of the size of a horse-bean, analogous to Cowper's gland in the male. It is called the gland of Bartholin. Each gland opens by means of a long single duct, on each side, external to the hymen. Bulbi vestibnli.—Extending from the clitoris, along either side of the vestibule, and lying a little behind the nymphse, are two large oblong masses, about an inch in length, consisting of a plexus of veins, enclosed in a thin layer of fibrous membrane. These bodies are narrow in front, rounded below, and are connected with the crura of the clitoris and rami of the pubes : they are termed by Kobelt the hulhi vestibuli ; and he considers them analogous to the bulb of the corpus spongiosum in the male. Immediately in front of these bodies is a smaller venous plexus, continuous with the bulbi vestibuli behind and the glans clitoridis in front: it is called by Kobelt the _p<xrs intermedia, and is considered by him as analogous to that part of the body of the corpus spongiosum which immediately succeeds the bulb. Relations of the Bladder The Bladder is situated at the anterior part of the pelvis. It is in relation, in front, with the symphysis pubis ; behind, with the utero-vesical pouch of peritoneum which separates it from the body of the uterus ; its base lies in contact w4th the connective tissue in front of the cervix and upper part of the vagina. Laterally, is the recto-vesical fascia. The bladder is said by some anatomists to be larger in the female than in the male. At any rate it does not rise above the symphysis pubis till more distended than in the male, but this is perhaps owing to the more capacious pelvis rather than to its being of actually larger size.