642 VEINS orbital arteries, and symptoms resembling those of pulsating tmnom- may be produced by pressure on the ophthalmic yein, as it enters the sinus, by an aneurism of the internal carotid artery. The ophthalmic is a large yein, which connects the angular yein at the inner angle of the orbit with the cayernous sinus ; it pursues the same course as the ophthalmic artery, and receiyes tributaries corresponding to the branches deriyed from that yessel. Forming a short single trunk, it passes through the inner extremity of the sphenoidal fissure, and terminates in the cayernous sinus. The Inferior Ophthalmic Vein.—Sometimes the veins from the floor of the orbit collect into a separate trunk, the inferior ophthalmic vein, which either passes out of the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure to join the pterygoid plexus of veins ; or else, passing backwards through the sphenoidal fissure, it enters the cayernous sinus, either by a separate opening or in common with the ophthalmic vein. The Circular Sinus is formed by two transverse vessels, which connect together Fict. 385.—The sinuses at the base of the skull. Torett la r Heropliili the two cavernous sinuses; the one passing in front and the other behind the pituitary body, and thus forming with the cavernous sinuses a venous circle around the body. The anterior one is usually the larger of the two, and one or other is occasionally found to be absent. The Superior Petrosal Sinus is situated along the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, in the front part of the attached margin of the tentorium. It is small and narrow, and connects together the cavernous and lateral sinuses at each side. It receives a cerebellar vein [anterior lateral cerebellar) from the anterior border of the cerebellum, and a vein from the internal ear. The Inferior Petrosal Sinus is situated in the groove formed by the junction of the posterior border of the petrous portion of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital. It commences in front at the termination of the cavernous sinus, and behind joins the lateral sinus after it has passed through the jugular foramen ; the junction of these two sinuses forming the commencement of the internal jugular vein. The junction of the two sinuses takes place at the lower border of, or just