MUSCLES AND FASCIA margin and upper and under surfaces of the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum, forming a kind of groove, in Avhich the tendon is lodged.* Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the muscles of the superficial layer, from which it is separated by the external plantar vessels and nerves. By its deep surface, with the os calcis, and long calcaneo-cuboid ligament. The Lumbricales are four small muscles, accessory to the tendons of the Flexor longus digitorum: they arise from the tendons of the long flexor, as far back as their angle of division, each arising Fig. 335.—Muscles of the sole of the foot. ^^"0^^ ^^o tendons, except the internal one. Each muscle terminates in a tendon, which passes forwards on the inner side of each of the lesser toes, and is inserted into the expansion of the long extensor and base of the first phalanx of the corresponding toe. Dissection.—The flexor tendons should be divided at the back part of the foot, and the Flexor accessorius at its origin, and drawn forwards, in order to expose the third layer. Tliircl Layer Flexor brevis hallucis. Adductor obliquus hallucis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Adductor transA^ersus hallucis. The Flexor brevis hallucis arises, by a pointed tendinous process, from the inner border of the cuboid bone, from the contiguous portion of the external cuneiform, and from the pro- longation of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, which is attached to that bone. The muscle divides, in front, into two portions, which are inserted into the inner and outer sides of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, a sesa- moid bone being developed in each ten- don at its insertion. The inner portion of this muscle is blended with the Abductor hallucis previous to its insertion, the outer with the Adductor obliquus hallucis, and the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis lies in a groove between them. Relations.—By its superficial sur- face, with the Abductor hallucis, the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis, and plantar fascia. By its deep surface, with the tendon of the Peroneus longus, and metatarsal bone of the great toe. By its inner border, with the Abductor hallucis. By its outer border, with the Adductor obliquus hallucis. The Adductor obliquus hallucis is a large, thick, fleshy mass, passing obliquely across the foot, and occupying the hollow space between the four inner metatarsal bones. It arises from the tarsal extremities of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones, and from the sheath of the tendon of the Peroneus longus, and * According to Turner, the fibres of the Flexor accessorius end in aponeurotic bands, which contribute slips to the second, third, and fourth digits. Third layer.