763 TENTH. PNEUMOGASTKIC The tonsillar branches supply the tonsil, forming a plexus (circulus tonsillaris) around this body, from which branches are distributed to the soft palate and fauces, where they communicate with the palatine nerves. The lingual branches are two in number: one supplies the circumvallate papilla and the mucous membrane covering the surface of the base of the tongue; the other perforates its substance, and supplies the mucous membrane and follicular glands of the tongue and anterior surface of the epiglottis. Tenth Pair (fig. 452, 453) The Tenth or Pneumogastric Nerve {nervus vagus or jjar vagum) has a more extensive distribution than any of the other cranial nerves, passing through the neck and thorax to the upper part of the abdomen. It is composed of both motor and sensory fibres. It supplies the organs of voice and respiration with motor and sensory fibres ; and the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and heart with motor fibres. Its superficial origin is by eight or ten filaments from the groove between the olivary and the restiform body below the glosso-pharyngeal; its deep origin may be traced through the fasciculi of the medulla, to terminate in a nucleus of grey matter at the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, below and continuous with the nucleus of origin of the giosso-pharyngeal. The filaments become united, and form a flat cord, which passes outwards beneath the flocculus to the jugular foramen, through which it emerges from the cranium. In passing- through this opening, the pneumogastric accompanies the spinal accessory, being contained in the same sheath of dura mater with it, a membranous septum separating it from the glosso-pharyngeal, which lies in front (fig. 386). The nerve in this situation presents a well-marked ganglionic enlargement, which is called jugular ganglion, or the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric : to it the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected by one or two filaments. After the exit of the nerve from the jugular foramen, the nerve is joined by the accessory portion of the spinal accessory, and enlarges into a second gangliform swelling, called the ganglion inferius. or the ganglion of the trunk of the nerve ; through which the fibres of the spinal accessory pass unchanged, being principally distributed to the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the vagus, but some of the filaments from it are continued into the trunk of the vagus below the ganglion to be distributed with the recurrent laryngeal nerve and probably also with the cardiac nerves. The nerve passes vertically down the neck within the sheath of the carotid vessels lying between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein as far as the thyroid cartilage, and then between the same vein and the common carotid to the root of the neck. Here the course of the nerve becomes different on the two sides of the body. On the fight side, the nerve passes across the subclavian artery between it and the right innominate vein, and descends by the side of the trachea to the back part of the root of the lung, where it spreads out in a plexiform network {posterior pulmonary), from the lower part of which two cords descend u]3on the oesophagus, on which they divide, forming, with branches from the opposite nerve, the oesophageal plexus (plexus gulce); below, these branches are collected into a single cord, which runs along the back part of the oesophagus, enters the abdomen, and is distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach, joining the left side of the solar plexus, and send- ing filaments to the splenic plexus and a considerable branch to the coeliac plexus. On the left side, the pneumogastric nerve enters the chest between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, behind the left innominate vein. It crosses the arch of the aorta, and descends behind the root of the left lung, forming the posterior pulmonary plexus, and along the anterior surface of the oesophagus, where it unites with the nerve of the right side in forming the plexus gul^e, to the stomach, distributing branches over its anterior surface, some extending over the great cul-de-sac, and others along the lesser curvature. Filaments from these branches enter the gastro-hepatic omentum, and join the hepatic plexus.