889 THE SALIVARY GLANDS inwards between the Mylo-hyoid and the Hyo-giossus and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles, then between the subhngnal gland and the Genio-hyo-glossus, and opens by a narrow orifice on the summit of a small papilla, at the side of the fr&enum linguae. On the Hyo-giossus muscle it lies between the lingual and hypoglossal nerves, but at the anterior border of the muscle it crosses under the lingual nerve, and is then placed above it. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the submaxillary gland are branches of the facial and lingual. Its veins follow the course of the arteries. The nerves are derived from the submaxillary ganglion, through which it receives filaments from the chorda tympani of the facial and lingual branch of the inferior maxillary, from the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental, and from the sympathetic. The sublingual gland is the smallest of the salivary glands. It is situated beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, at the side of the fraenum linguas, in contact with the inner surface of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. It is narrow, flattened, in shape somewhat like an almond, and weighs about a drachm. It is in relation, above, with the mucous membrane; beloio, with the Mylo-hyoid muscle; in front, with the depression on the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw, and with its fellow of the opposite side; behind, with the deep part of the submaxillary gland ; and internally, with the Genio-hyo-giossus, from which it is separated by the lingual nerve and Wharton's duct. Its excretory ducts {ducts of Bivini), from eight to twenty in number, open separately into the mouth, on the elevated crest of mucous membrane, caused by the projection of the gland, on either side of the fr^num linguae. One or more join to form a tube, which opens into the Whartonian duct; this is called the duct of Bartholin. Vessels and Nerves.—The sublingual gland is supplied with blood from the sublingual and submental arteries. Its nerves are derived from the lingual. Structure of Salivary Glands.—The salivary are compound racemose glands, consisting of numerous lobes, which are made up of smaller lobules, connected together by dense areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. Each lobule consists of the ramifications of a single duct, ' branching frequently in a tree-like manner,' the branches terminating in dilated ends or alveoli on which the capillaries are distributed. These alveoli, however, as Pflliger points out, are not necessarily spherical, though sometimes they assume that form ; sometimes they are perfectly cylindical, and very often they are mutually compressed. The alveoli are enclosed by a basement membrane, which is continuous with the membrana propria of the duct. It presents a peculiar reticulated structure, having the appearance of a basket with open meshes, and consisting of a network of branched and flattened nucleated cells. The alveoli of the salivary glands are of two kinds, which differ both in the appearance of their secreting cells, in their size, and in the nature of their secretion. The one variety secretes a ropy fluid, which contains mucin, and has therefore been named the mucous ; whilst the other secretes a thinner and more watery fluid, which contains serum-albumin, and has been named serous or albuminous. The sublingual gland may be regarded as an example of the former variety; the parotid of the latter. The submaxillary is of the mixed variety, containing both mucous and serous alveoli, the latter, however, preponderating. Both alveoli are lined by cells, and it is by the character of these cells that the nature of the gland is chiefly to be determined. In addition, however, the alveoli of the serous glands are smaller than those of the mucous ones. The cells in the mucous alveoli are spheroidal in shape, glassy, transparent, and dimly striated in appearance. The nucleus is usually situated in the part of the cell which is next the basement membrane, against which it is sometimes flattened. The most remarkable peculiarity presented by these cells is, that they give off an extremely fine process, which is curved in a direction parallel to the surface of the alveolus, lies in contact with the membrana propria, and overlaps the processes of neighbouring cells. The cells contain a quantity of mucin, to which their clear, transparent appearance is due.