856 ORGANS OF SENSE drawn down by the contraction of neighbouring cicatrices, and thus produce an aversion of the hd, known as ectrojnoji. Inversion of the hds {entropion), from spasm of the Orbicu- laris palpebrarum or ft'om chronic inflammation of the palpebral conjunctiva may also occur. The eyelids are richly supplied with blood, and are often the seat of vascular growths, such as naevi. Eodent ulcer also frequently commences in this situation. The loose cellular tissue beneath the skin is liable to become extensively infiltrated either with blood or inflammatory products, producing very great swelling. Even from very slight mjuries to this tissue, the extravasation of blood may be so great as to produce considerable swelling of the lids and complete closure of the eye, and the same is the case when inflammatory products are poured out. The follicles of the eyelashes or the sebaceous glands associated with these follicles, may be the seat of inflammation, constituting the ordinary' sty.' The Meibomian glands are affected in the so-called ' tarsal tumour: ' the tumour, according to some, being caused by the retained secretion of these glands ; by others it is believed to be a neoplasm connected with the gland. The ciliary follicles are liable to become inflamed, constituting the disease known as blepharitis cilai'is or ' blear eye.' Irregular or disorderl}^ growth of the eyelashes not unfrequently occurs; some of them being turned towards the eyeball and producing inflammation and ulceration of the cornea, and possibly eventually complete destruction of the eye. The Orbicularis palpebrarum ma^^ be the seat of spasm, either in the form of slight quivering of the lids ; or repeated twitchings, most commonly due to errors of refraction in children ; or more continuous spasm, due to some irritation of the fifth or seventh cranial nerve. The Orbicularis may be paralysed, generally associated with paralysis of the other facial muscles. Under these circumstances, the patient is unable to close the lids, and, if he attempts to do so, rolls the eyeball upwards under the upper lid. The tears overflow from displacement of the lower lid, and the conjunctiva and cornea, being constantly exposed and the patient being imable to winlt, become irritated from dust and foreign bodies. In paralysis of the Levator palpebrae superioris there is drooping of the upper eyelid and other symptoms of implication of the third nerve. The eyelids may be the seat of bruises, wounds, or bm-ns. In these latter injuries, adhesions of the margins of the lids to each other, or adhesion of the lids to the globe may take place. The eyelids are sometimes the seat of emphj^sema, after fracture of some of the thin bones forming the inner wall of the orbit. If shortly after such an injury the patient blows his nose, air is forced from the nostril through the lacerated structures into the connective tissue of the eyelids, which suddenly swell up and present the peculiar crackling characteristic of this affection. The lachr^^mal gland is occasionally, though rarely, the seat of inflammation, either acute or chronic ; it is also sometimes the seat of tumours, benign or malignant, and for these may require removal. This may be done by an incision through the skin, just below the eyebrow; and the gland, being invested with a special capsule of its own, may be isolated and removed, without opening the general cavity of the orbit. The canaliculi may be obstructed, either as a congenital defect, or by some foreign body, as an eyelash or a dacrj-olith, causing the tears to run over the cheek. The canaliculi may also become occluded as the result of burns or injury; overflow of the tears may in addition result from deviation of the puncta, or from chronic inflammation of the lachrymal sac. This latter condition is set up by some obstruction to the nasal duct, frequently occurring in tubercular subjects. In consequence of this the tears and mucus accumulate in the lachrymal sac, distending it. Suppuration m the lachrymal sac is sometimes met with; this may be the sequel of a chronic inflammation ; or may occur after some of the eruptive fevers, in cases wdiere the lachrymal passages were previously quite health^'. It may lead to lachrymal fistula. THE EAR The organ of hearing is divisible into three parts : the external ear, the middle ear or tympanum, and the internal ear or labyrinth. The external ear consists of an expanded portion named pinna or auricle, and the auditory canal, or meatus. The former serves to collect the vibrations of the air by which sound is produced ; the latter conducts those vibrations to the tympanum. The pinna, or auricle (fig. 498), is of an ovoid form, with its larger end directed upwards. Its outer surface is irregularly concave, directed slightly forwards, and presents numerous eminences and depressions which result from the foldings of its fibro-cartilaginous element. To each of these, names have been assigned. Thus the external prominent rim of the auricle is called the helix. Another curved prominence, parallel with and in front of the helix, is called the antihelix; this bifurcates above, so as to enclose a triangular depression, the fossa of the antihelix. The narrow curved depression between the helix and antihelix is called the fossa of the helix {fossa innominata or scaphoidea); the antihelix describes a curve round a deep, capacious cavity, the concha which is partially divided into two