421 DIAPHRAGM from the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and that for the last from the eleventh dorsal. The Inferior levatores divide into two fasciculi, one of which is inserted as above described ; the other fasciculus passes down to the second rib below its origin; thus, each of the lower ribs receives fibres from the transverse processes of two vertebrae. Nerves.—The muscles of this group are supplied by the intercostal nerves. Actions.—The Intercostals are the chief agents in the movement of the ribs in ordinary respiration. When the first rib is elevated and fixed by the Scaleni, the External intercostals raise the other ribs, especially their fore part, and so increase the capacity of the chest from before baclnvards ; at the same time they evert their lower borders, and so enlarge the thoracic cavity transversely. The Internal intercostals, at the side of the thorax, depress the ribs, and invert their lower borders, and so diminish the thoracic cavity ; but at the fore part of the chest these muscles assist the External intercostals in raising the cartilages.* The Levatores costarum assist the External intercostals in raising the ribs. The Triangularis sterni draws down the costal cartilages; it is therefore an expiratory muscle. Muscles of Inspiration and Expiration.—^The muscles which assist the action of the Diaphragm in ordinary tranquil inspiration are the Intercostals and the Levatores costarum, as above stated, and the Scaleni. When the need for more forcible action exists, the shoulders and the base of the scapula are fixed, and then the powerful muscles of forced inspiration come into play; the chief of these are the Trapezius, the Pectoralis minor, the Serratus posticus superior and inferior, and the Rhomboidei. The lower fibres of the Serratus magnus may possibly assist slightly in dilating the chest by raising and everting the ribs. The Sterno- mastoid also, when the head is fixed, assists in forced inspiration, by drawing up the sternum, and by fixing the clavicle, and thus affording a fixed point for the action of the muscles of the chest. The Ilio-costalis and Quadratus lumborum assist in forced inspiration by fixing the last rib (see page 436). The ordinary action of expiration is hardly effected by muscular force, but results from a return of the walls of the thorax to a condition of rest, owing to their own elasticity and to that of the lungs. Forced expiratory actions are performed mainly by the flat muscles (Obliqui and Transversalis) of the abdomen, assisted also by the Rectus. Other muscles of forced expiration are the Internal intercostals and Triangularis sterni (as above mentioned), the Quadratus lumborum, and the Ilio-costalis. Diaphragmatic Region Diaphragm. The Diaphragm (Sta<^pay/x,a, a partition wall) (fig. 290) is a thin musculo- fibrous septum, placed obliquely at the junction of the upper with the middle third of the trunk, and separating the thorax from the abdomen, forming the floor of the former cavity and the roof of the latter. It is elliptical, its longest diameter being * The view of the action of the Intercostal muscles given in the text is that which is taught by Hutchinson (Cycl. of Anat. and Phys. art. ' Thorax'), and is usually adopted in our schools. It is, however, much disputed. Hamberger believed that the External intercostals act as elevators of the ribs, or muscles of inspnation, while the Internal act in expiration. Haller taught that both sets of muscles act in common—viz. as muscles of inspiration—and this view is adopted by many of the best anatomists of the Continent, and appears supported by many observations made on the human subject under various conditions of disease, and on living animals after the muscles have been exposed under chloroform. The reader may consult an interesting paper by Dr. Cleland in the Journal of Anat. and Phys. No. II., Ma}^ 1867, p. 209, ' On the Hutchinsonian Theory of the Action of the Intercostal Muscles,' who refers also to Henle, Luschka, Budge, and Baumler, Observations on the Action of the Intercostal Muscles., Erlangen, i860. (In Netv Syd. Soc's. Year-Booh for 1861, p. 69.) Dr. W. W. Keen has come to the con- clusion, from experiments made upon a criminal executed by hangmg, that the External intercostals are muscles of expiration, as they pulled the ribs down, while the Internal intercostals pulled the ribs up and are muscles of inspiration. {Trans. Coll. Phys. Philadelphia, Third Series, vol. i., 1875, p. 97.)