GENEEAL ANATOMY io8 human species. The only remains of the Wolffian body in the complete condition of the female organs are two rudimentary or vestigial structures, which can be found, on careful search, in the broad ligament near the ovary ; the parovarium or organ of BosenmuUer and the epoophoron (fig. io6). The organ of Eosenmiiller consists of a number of tubes which converge to a transverse portion, the epoophoron, and this is sometimes Fig. io6.—Adult ovary, parovarium, and Fallopian tube. prolonged into a distinct (From Farre, after Kobelt.) (j^ct, running trans- versely, the duct of Gartner, which is much more conspicuous and extends further in some of the lower animals. This is the remains of the Wolffian duct. About the fifth month an annular constriction marks the position of the neck of the uterus, and after the sixth month the walls of the uterus begin to thicken. The round ligament is derived from the lumbar ligament of the Wolffian body, the peritoneum constitutes the broad ligament; the superior ligament of the Wolffian body dis- appears with that structure (fig, 107), The external organs of generation, like the internal, pass through a stage in Fig. 107.—Female genital organs of the embryo, with the remains of the Wolffian bodies. (After J. Mtiller.) / , a, Epoophoron formed from the upper part of the Wolffian body. h. Eemains of the uppermost tubes sometimes forming hydatids, c. Middle set of tubes, d. Some lower atrophied tubes, e. Atrophied remains of the WolflBan duct. /. The terminal bulb or hydatid, h. The Fallopian tube, originally the duct of Milller. i. Hydatid attached to the extremity. I. The ovary. A. From a foetal sheep : a. The kidneys, b. The ureters, c. The ovaries, d. Remains of Wolffian bodies, e. Fallo-i plan tubes. /. Their abdominal openings. B. More advanced, from a loetal deer : a. Body of the uterus, b. Cornua.i| c. Tubes, d. Ovaries, e. Remains of Wolffian bodies, c. Still more advanced, from the human foetus of three, months : a. The body of the uterus, b. The round ligament, c. The Fallopian tubes, d. The ovaries, e. Remains of the Wolffian bodies. which there is no distinction of sex (fig. 108, 11, iii). We must therefore describe.j this stage, and then follow the development of the female and male organs respec- tively. As stated above, the anal depression at an early period is formed by an invo-