387 INFRA-HYOID REGION process ; behind, the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle. The boundaries of the posterior triangle are, in front, the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid; below, the upper border of the clavicle ; behind, the anterior margin of the Trapezius.* Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the integument and Platysma, from which it is separated by the external jugular vein, the superficial branches of the cervical plexus, and the anterior layer of the deep cervical fascia. By its deep surface, it is in relation with the Sterno-clavicular articulation ; a process of the deep cervical fascia ; the Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, Omo-hyoid, posterior belly of the Digastric, Levator anguli scapulae, Splenius and Scaleni muscles ; common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, commencement of the internal and external carotid arteries, the occipital, subclavian, transversalis colli and supra- scapular arteries and veins; the pneumogastric, hypoglossal, descendens and communicans hypogiossi nerves and the spinal accessory nerve, which pierces its upper third; the cervical plexus, part of the parotid gland and deep lymphatic glands. Nerves.—The Platysma myoides is supplied by the facial and superficial branches of the cervical plexus ; the Sterno-cleido-mastoid by the spinal accessory and deep branches of the cervical plexus. Actions.—When only one Sterno-mastoid muscle acts, it flexes the head and draws it towards the shoulder of the same side, assisted by the Splenius and the Obliquus capitis inferior of the opposite side. At the same time it rotates the head so as to carry the face towards the opposite side. When both muscles are brought into action, they serve to depress the head upon the neck, and the neck upon the chest. If the head is fixed, they assist in elevating the thorax in forced inspiration. Surface Form — The anterior edge of the muscle forms a very prominent ridge beneath the skin, which it is important to notice, as it forms a guide to the surgeon in making the necessary incisions for ligature of the common carotid artery, and for cesophagotoniy. • Surgical Anatomij.—The relations of the sternal and clavicular parts of the Sterno- mastoid should be carefully examined, as the surgeon is sometimes required to divide one or both portions of the muscles inwry-neclt. One variety of this distortion is produced by spasmodic contraction or rigidity of the Sterno-mastoid ; the head being carried down towards the shoulder of the same side, and the face turned to the opposite side, and fixed in that position. When there is permanent shortening, subcutaneous division of the muscle is resorted to. This is performed by introducing a tenotomy knife beneath it, close to its origin, and dividing it from behind forwards whilst the muscle is put well upon the stretch. There is seldom any difficulty in dividing the sternal portion, by making a puncture on the inner side of the tendon, and then pushing a blunt tenotome behind it, and cutting forwards. In dividing the clavicular portion care must be taken to avoid wounding the external jugular vein, which runs parallel with the posterior border of the muscle in this situation, or the anterior jugular vein, which crosses beneath it. If the external jugular vein lies near the muscle, it is safer to make the first puncture at the outer side of the tendon, and introduce a blunt tenotome from without inwards. Some of the fibres of the Sterno-mastoid muscle are occasionally torn during birth, especially in breech presentations ; this is accompanied by hsemorrhage and formation of a swelling within the substance of the muscle. This by some is believed to be one of the causes of wry-neck. 2. Infea-hyoid Region (figs. 276, 277) Depeessoes of the Os Hyoides and Laeynx Sterno-hyoid. Thyro-hyoid. Sterno-thyroid. Omo-hyoid. Dissection.—The muscles in this region may be exposed by removing the deep fascia from the front of the neck. In order to see the entire extent of the Omo-hyoid, it is necessary to divide the Sterno-mastoid at its centre, and turn its ends aside, and to detach the Trapezius from the clavicle and scapula. This, however, should not be done until the Trapezius has been dissected, * The anatomy of these triangles will be more exactly described with that of the vessels of the neck. c c 2