OEGANS OF VOICE AND EESPIEATION The Laeynx THE Larynx is the organ of voice, placed at the upper part of the air-passage. It is situated between the trachea and base of the tongue, at the upper and fore part of the neck, T\"here it forms a considerable projection m the middle hne. On either side of 'it he the great vessels of the neck ; behind, it forms part of the boundary of the pharynx, and is covered by the mucous membrane lining that cavity. The larynx is broad above, where it presents the form of a triangular box, flattened behind and at the sides, and bounded in front by a prominent vertical ridge. Below, it is narrow and cylindrical. It is composed of cartilages, which are connected together by ligaments and moved by numerous muscles : the interior is lined by mucous membrane, and supplied with vessels and nerves. The Cartilages of the Larynx are nine in number, three single, and three pairs ; Thyroid. Cricoid. Epiglottis. Fig. 567.—Side view of the thyi'oid and cricoid cartilas^es. Two Arytenoid. Two Cornicula Laryngis. Two Cuneiform. The Thyroid {dvpeo^, a shield) is the largest cartilage of the larynx. It con- sists of two lateral lamellae or alse, united at an acute angle in front, forming a vertical projection in the middle line which is prominent above, and called the pomum Adavii. This projection is sub- cutaneous, more distinct in the male than in the female, and occasionally separated from the integument by a bursa mucosa. Each lamella is quadrilateral in form. Its outer surface presents an oblique ridge, which passes do^Tiwards and forwards from a tubercle, situated near the root of the superior cornu. This ridge gives attachment to the Sterno- thyroid and Thyro-hyoid muscles, and the portion of cartilage included between it and the posterior border, to part of the Inferior constrictor muscle. The inner surface of each ala is smooth, slightly concave, and covered by mucous membrane above and behind ; but in front, in the receding angle formed by their junction, are attached the epi- glottis, the true and false vocal cords, the Thyro-arytenoid, and Thyro-epiglot- tidean muscles.