719 THIRD VENTRICLE downwards into the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, being continuous with the concave border of the hippocampus major. The lateral thin edges of the posterior crura have received the name of corpus fimhriatum. Upon examining the under surface of the fornix, between its diverging posterior crura, a triangular portion of the under surface of the corpus callosum may be seen. On it are a number of lines : some transverse, others longitudinal or oblique. This portion has been termed the hjra, from the fancied resemblance it bears to the strings of a harp. Divide the fornix across anteriorly, and reflect the two portions, the one forwards, the other backwards, when the velum interpositnm will be exposed. The velum interpositum (fig. 429) is a vascular membrane, a prolongation from the pia mater into the interior of the brain through the transverse fissure, passing beneath the posterior rounded border of the corpus callosum and fornix, and above the corpora quadrigemina, pineal gland, and optic thalami. It is of a triangular form, and separates the under surface of the body of the fornix from the cavity of the third ventricle. Its posterior border forms an almost complete investment for the pineal gland. Its anterior extremity, or apex, is bifid ; each bifurcation has attached to it the anterior extremity of the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle, through the foramen of Monro. On its under surface are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. To its lateral margins are connected the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles. Of the arteries of the velum interpositum, some branches from the superior cerebellar and posterior cerebral, enter from behind, beneath the corpus callosum ; another constant branch, the anterior choroid, enters the velum interpositum at the extremity of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, and supplies this structure and the choroid plexus. The veins of the velum interpositum, the vencB Galcni, two in number, run between its layers ; they are formed by the vense corporis striati and the veins of the choroid plexuses ; the venae Galeni unite posteriorly into a single trunk, which terminates in the straight sinus (fig. 383). The velum interpositum should now be removed. This must be effected carefully, especially at its posterior part, where it invests the pineal gland; the optic thalami will then be exposed with the cavity of the third ventricle between them (fig. 430). The optic thalami are two large oblong masses, placed between the diverging portions of the corpora striata ; they are of a white colour superficially ; internally they are composed chiefly of grey matter. Each thalamus rests upon its correspond- ing crus cerebri, which it embraces. Externally, it is separated from the corpus striatum by the taenia semicircularis. Internally, it forms the lateral boundary of the third ventricle ; and running along its upper and inner border is seen the peduncle of the pineal gland. Its upper surface is free, being partly seen in the lateral ventricle ; it is partially covered by the velum interpositum and fornix, and marked in front by an eminence, the anterior tubercle. Its under surface is united with the tegmentum of the crus cerebri. Its posterior extremity projects above the level of the corpora quadrigemina and crus cerebri, and internally forms a well-marked prominence, the posterior tubercle or ptdvinar, and below and outside this it presents two small rounded eminences, the internal and external geniculate bodies. Its anterior extremity, which is narrow, forms the posterior boundary of the foramen of Monro. The Third Ventricle is the narrow oblong fissure placed between the optic thalami, and extending to the base of the brain. It is bounded, above, by the under surface of the velum interpositum, from which are suspended the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. Its floor, somewhat oblique in its direction, is formed, from before backwards, by the parts w^hich are contained in the inter- peduncular space, viz. the lamina cinerea, the tuber cinereum and infundibulum, the corpora albicantia and the locus perforatus posticus, and behind these by the tegmenta of the crura cerebri; its sides are formed by the optic thalami, along the upper and inner border of which are two white tracts, one on each side, the peduncles of the pineal gland. It is bounded, in front, by the anterior crura of the