ARTICULATIONS 346 and in relation with the condyles of the femur; their lower surfaces are flat, and rest upon the head of the tibia. Each cartilage covers nearly the outer two-thirds of the corresponding articular surface of the tibia, leaving the inner third uncovered ; both surfaces are smooth, and invested by synovial membrane. The Internal Semilunar Fibro-cartilage is nearly semicircular in form, a little elongated from before backwards, and broader behind than in front; its anterior extremity, thin and pointed, is attached to a depression on the anterior margin of the head of the tibia, in front of the anterior crucial ligament; its posterior extremity is attached to the depression behind the spine, between the attach- ^ T ^- 1 ^- ^-u 1,^1 -m rxi ments of the external IiG. 201.—Longitudinal section through the middle of the right knee-joint. (After Braune.) semilunar fibro-carti- lage and the posterior crucial ligaments. The External Semi- lunar Fibr,o-cartilage forms nearly an entire circle, covering a larger portion of the articular surface than the internal one. It is grooved on its outer side for the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. Its extremities, at. their insertion, are interposed between the two extremities of the in- ternal semilunar fibro- cartilage ; the anterior extremity being attached in front of the spine of the tibia to the outer side of, and behind, the" anterior crucial liga- ment, with which it blends; the posterior ex- tremity being attached behind the spine of the tibia, in front of the posterior extremity of the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. Just before its insertion pos- teriorly it gives off a strong fasciculus, which passes obliquely up- wards and outwards, to be inserted into the inner condyle of the femur, close to the attachment of the posterior crucial ligament. Occasionally a small fasciculus is given off, which passes forwards to be inserted into the back part of the anterior crucial ligament. The external semilunar fibro-cartilage gives off from its anterior oonvex margin a fasciculus, which forms the transverse ligament. The Transverse Ligament is a band of fibres which passes transversely from the anterior convex margin of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage to the anterior convex margin of the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage; its thick- ness varies considerably in different subjects, and it is sometimes absent altogether. The Coronary Ligaments are merely portions of the capsular ligament, which