THE IRIS 841 Structure.—The iris is composed of the following structures : — 1. In front is a layer of polyhedral cells on a delicate hyaline basement- membrane. This layer is continuous with the epithelial layer of the membrane of Descemet, and in men with dark-coloured irides the cells contain pigment-granules. 2. Stroma.—The stroma consists of fibres and cells. The former are made up of fine delicate bundles of fibrous tissue, of which some few fibres have a circular direction at the circumference of the iris; but the chief mass consists of fibres radiating towards the pupil. They form, by their interlacement, a delicate mesh, in which the vessels and nerves are contained. Interspersed between the bundles of connective tissue are numerous branched cells with fine processes. Many of them in dark eyes contain pigment-granules, but in blue eyes and the pink eyes of albinos they are unpigmented. 3. The muscular fibre is involuntary, and consists of circular and radiating fibres. The circular fibres (sphincter of the pupil) surround the margin of the Fig. 491.—Section of the eye, showing the relations of the cornea, sclerotic, and ms, together with the Ciliary muscle and the cavernous spaces near the angle of the anterior chamber. (Waldeyer.) pupil on the posterior surface of the iris, like a sphincter, forming a narrow band, about one-thirtieth of an inch in width; those near the free margin being closely aggregated; those more external somewhat separated, and forming less complete circles. The radiating fibres (dilator of the pupil) converge from the circumference towards the centre, and blend with the circular fibres near the margin of the pupil. 4. Pigment.—-The situation of the pigment-cells differs in different irides. In the various shades of blue eyes, the only pigment-cells are several layers of small round or polyhedral cells, filled with dark pigment, situated on the posterior surface of the iris, and continuous with the pigmentary lining of the ciliary processes. The colour of the eye in these individuals is due to this colouring matter showing more or less through the texture of the iris. In the albino, even this pigment is absent. In the grey, brown, and black eye there are, as mentioned above, pigment-granules to be found in the cells of the stroma and in the epithelial layer on the front of the iris, to which the colour of the eye is due.