GENEKAL ANATOMY 46 Fig. 54.—Pacinian corpuscle, with its system cavity. of capsules and central in a rounded knob or end, sometimes bifurcating previously, in which case each branch has a similar arrangement. Todd and Bowman have described minute arteries as entering by the sides of the nerves and forming capillary loops in the intercapsular spaces, and even penetrating into the central space. Other authors de- scribe the artery as entering the corpuscle at the pole opposite to the nerve-fibre. Herbst has described a somewhat similar ' nerve-ending' to the Pacinian corpuscle, as being found in the mucous membrane of the tongue of the duck, and in some other situa- tions. It differs, however, from the Pacinian corpuscles, in being smaller, its capsules thinner and more closely approximated, and especially in the fact that the axis-cylinder in the central clear space is coated with a continuous row of nuclei. These bodies are known as the corpiLscles of Herhst. Tactile corpuscles have been described by Grandry as occurring in the papillae of the beak and tongue of birds, and by Merkel as occurring in the papillae and epithelium of the skin of man and animals, especially in those parts of the skin devoid of hair. They consist of a capsule composed of a very deli- cate, nucleated membrane, and contain two or more granular, somewhat flattened cells, between which the medullated nerve-fibre, which enters the capsule by piercing its in- vesting membrane, is supposed to terminate. In the organs of special sense the nerves terminate in cells, which are modified epi- thelial cells, and have received the name of sensory or nerve-epithelium cells. The axis- cylinder, after dividing into fibrils, ends in epithelial cells, variously modified, and to the peripheral extremity of which are often connected peculiar styliform processes. These cells will be more particularly described in the sequel, in connection with the description of the organs of special sense. Motor nerves are to be traced either into unstriped or striped muscular fibres. In the unstriped or involuntary muscles the nerves are derived from the sympa- thetic, and are composed mainly of the non-medullated fibres. Near their termi- nation they divide into a number of branches, which communicate and form an intimate plexus. At the junction of the branches small triangular nuclear bodies are situated. From these plexuses minute branches are given off, which divide and break up into the ultimate fibrillae of which the nerve is composed. These fibrillin course between the involuntary muscle-cells, and, according to Elischer, terminate on the surface of the cell, opposite the nucleus, in a minute swelling. Arnold and Frankenhauser believed that these ultimate fibrillae penetrated the muscular cell, and ended in the nucleus. More recent observation has, however, tended to disprove this. In the striped or voluntary muscle, the nerves supplying the muscular fibres are derived from the cerebro-spinal nerves, and are composed mainly of medullated fibres. The nerve, after entering the sheath of the muscle, breaks up into fibres, or bundles of fibres, which form plexuses, and gradually divide until, as a rule, a single nerve-fibre enters a single muscular fibre. Sometimes, however, if the muscular fibre is loni?, more than one nerve-fibre enters it. Within the . Arterial twig, ending in capillaries, which form loops in some of the intercapsular spaces, and one penetrates to the central capsule, h. The fibrous tissue of the stalk prolonged from the perineurium, w. Nerve-tube advancing to the central capsule, there losing its white matter, and stretching along the axis to the opposite end, where it is fixed by a tubercular enlarge- ment.