938 OEGANS OF DIGESTION secreted. Arrivecl at the centre of the lobule, all these minute vessels empty themselves into one vein, of considerable size, which runs down the centre of the lobules from apex to base, and is called the intralobular vein. At the base of the lobule this vein opens directly into the sublobular vein, with which the lobule is connected, and which, as before mentioned, is a radicle of the hepatic vein. The sublobular veins, uniting into larger and larger trunks, end at last in the hepatic veins, which do not receive any intralobular veins. Finally, the hepatic veins, as mentioned at page 657, converge to form three large trunks which open into the inferior vena cava, while that vessel is situated in the fissure appropriated to it at the back of the liver. (3) The ducts.—Having shown how the blood is brought into intimate relation with the hepatic cells in order that the bile may be secreted, it remains now only to consider the way in which the secretion, having been formed, is carried away. Several views have prevailed as to the mode of origin of the hepatic ducts; it seems, however, to be clear that they commence by little passages which are formed between the cells, and which have been termed intercellular biliary passages, or bile capillaries (fig. 552). These passages are merely little channels or interspaces left between the contiguous surfaces of two cells, or in the angle where three or more liver-cells meet (fig. 552), and it seems doubtful whether there is any delicate membrane forming the wall of the space. The channels thus formed radiate to the circumference of the lobule, and, piercing its wall, form a plexus {interlobular) between the lobules. From this plexus ducts are derived which pass into the portal canals, become enclosed in Glisson's capsule, and, accompanying the portal vein and hepatic artery (fig. 553), join with other ducts to form two main trunks, which leave the liver at the transverse fissure, and by their union form the hepatic duct. The Gall-bladder The Gall-bladder is the reservoir for the bile ; it is a conical or pear-shaped musculo-membranous sac, lodged in a fossa on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, and extending from near the right extremity of the transverse fissure to the anterior border of the organ. It is about four inches in length, one inch in breadth at its widest part, and holds from eight to ten drachms. It is divided into a fundus, body, and neck. The fundus, or broad extremity, is directed downwards, forwards, and to the right, and occasionally projects beyond the anterior border of the liver; the body and neck are directed upwards and backwards to the left. The gall-bladder is held in its position by the peritoneum, which, in the> majority of cases, passes over its under surface, but the serous membrane occasionally invests the gall-bladder, which is then connected to the liver by a kind of mesentery. Relations.—The body of tJie gall-bladder is in relation, by its upper surface, with the liver, to which it is connected by areolar tissue and vessels ; by its under surface, with the first portion of the duodenum, occasionally the pyloric end of the stomach, and the hepatic flexure of the colon. The fundus is completely invested by peritoneum ; it is in relation, in front, Avith the abdominal parietes, immediately below the ninth costal cartilage; behind, with the transverse arch of the colon. The neck is narrow, and curves upon itself like the letter S; at its point of connection with the cystic duct it presents a well-marked constriction. When the gall-bladder is distended with bile or calculi, the fundus maybe felt through the abdominal parietes, especially in an emaciated subject: the relations of this sac will also serve to explain the occasional occurrence of abdominal biliary fistulae, through which biliary calculi may pass out, and of the passage of calculi from the gall-bladder into the stomach, duodenum, or colon, which occasionally happens. Structure.—The gall-bladder consists of three coats—serous, fibrous and muscular, and mucous. The external or serous coat is derived from the peritoneum; it completely invests the fundus, but covers the body and neck only on their under surface. The fibro-7nusctUar coat is a thin but strong layer, which forms, the framework