THE UTERUS 1039 the upper two-thirds is cyHndrical and ciliated, but below this it loses its cilia, and gradually changes to squamous epithelium close to the external os. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the uterus are the uterine, from the internal iliac; and the ovarian, from the aorta. They are remarkable for their tortuous course in the substance of the organ, and for their frequent anastomoses. The termination of the ovarian artery meets the termination of the uterine artery, and forms an anastomotic trunk from which branches are given off to supply the uterus, their disposition being, as shown by John Wilhams, circular. The veins are of large size, and correspond with the arteries. In the impregnated uterus these vessels are termed the uterine sinuses, consisting of the Hning membrane of the veins adhering to the walls of the canal channelled through the substance of the uterus. They terminate in the uterine plexuses. The lymjjhatics of the body terminate in the lumbar glands, those of the cervix in the pelvic glands. The nerves^ are derived from the inferior hypogastric and ovarian plexuses, and from the third and fourth sacral nerves. Fig. 615.—The arteries of the internal organs of o^eneration of the female, seen from behind. (After Hyrtl.) The form, size, and situation of the uterus vary at different periods of life and under different circumstances. In the foetus the uterus is contained in the abdominal cavity, projecting bej'ond the brim of the pelvis. The cervix is considerably larger than the body. At puberty the uterus is pyriform in shape, and weighs from eight to ten drachms, it has descended into the pelvis, the fundus being just below the level of the brim of this cavity. The arbor vitae is distinct, and extends to the upper part of the cavity of the origan. During menstruation the organ is enlarged, and more vascular, its surfaces rounder; the OS externum is rounded, its labia swollen, a,nd the lining membrane of the body thickened, softer, and of a darker colour. According to J. Williams, at each recurrence of menstruation, a molecular disintegration of the mucous membrane takes place, which leads to its complete removal, only the bases of the glands embedded in the muscle being left. At the cessation of menstruation, by a proliferation of the remaining structures a fresh mucous membrane is formed. During preg^iancy the uterus becomes enormously enlarged, and in the ninth month reaches the epigastric region. The increase in size is partly due to growth of pre-existing muscle, and partly to development of new fibres. After parturition the uterus nearly regains its usual size, weighing about an ounce