119 DOESAL VERTEBRA vertebrae. The spinous process is of large size, very strong, deeply channelled on its under surface, and presents a bifid, tubercular extremity for the attachment of muscles which serve to rotate the head upon the spine. Seventh Cervical (fig. 112).—The most distinctive character of this vertebra is the existence of a very long and prominent spinous process ; hence the name ' vertebra prominens.' This process is thick, nearly horizontal in direction, not bifurcated, and has attached to it the ligamentum nuch^. The transverse process is usually of large size, especially its posterior root; its upper surface has usually a shallow groove, and it seldom presents more than a trace of bifurcation at its extremity. The vertebral foramen is sometimes as large as in the other cervical vertebrae, but is usually smaller on one or both sides, and sometimes wanting. On the left side it occasionally gives passage to the vertebral artery ; more frequently the vertebral vein traverses it on both sides ; but the usual arrangement is for both artery and vein to pass in front of the transverse process, and not through the foramen. Chakactees of the Doesal Veetebe^ The Dorsal Vertebrae are intermediate in size between those in the cervical and those in the lumbar region, and increase in size from above downwards, the upper Fig. 113.—A dorsal vertebra. vertebra3 in this segment of the spine being much smaller than those in the lower 'part of the region. The dorsal vertebrae may be at once recognised by the presence on the sides of the body of one or more facets or half-facets for the heads of the [ribs. The bodies of the dorsal vertebrae resemble those in the cervical and lumbar iregions at the respective ends of this portion of the spine; but in the middle I of the dorsal region their form is very characteristic, being heart-shaped, and as broad in the antero-posterior as in the lateral direction. They are thicker behind than in front, flat above and below, convex and prominent in front, deeply concave behind, slightly constricted in front and at the sides, and marked on each side, I near the root of the pedicle, by two demi-facets, one above, the other below. These are covered with cartilage in the recent state, and, when articulated with the adjoining vertebra, form, with the intervening fibro-cartilage, oval surfaces ;for the reception of the heads of the corresponding ribs. The pedicles are directed (backwards, and the inferior intervertebral notches are jof large size, and deeper than