KNEE-JOINT 347 connect the circumference of each of the semikmar fibro-cartilages with the margin of the head of the tibia. The Synovial Membrane of the knee-joint is the largest and most extensive in the body. Commencing at the upper border of the patella, it forms a short cul-de- sac beneath the Quadriceps extensor tendon of the thigh, on the lower part of the front of the shaft of the femur: this communicates with a synovial bursa inter- posed between the tendon and the front of the femur, by an orifice of variable size. On each side of the patella, the synovial membrane extends beneath the aponeurosis of the Vasti muscles, and more especially beneath that of the Vastus internus. Below the patella, it is separated from the anterior ligament by the anterior part of the capsule and a considerable quantity of adipose tissue. In this situation it sends off a triangular prolongation, containing a few ligamentous fibres, which extends from the anterior part of the joint below the patella, to the front of the intercondyloid notch. This fold has been termed the ligamentimi mucosiim. It also sends off two fringe-like folds, called the ligamenta alaria, which extend from the sides of the ligamentum mucosum, upwards and laterally between the patella and femur. On either side of the joint, it passes downwards from the femur, lining the capsule to its point of attachment to the semilunar cartilages; it may then be traced over the upper surfaces of these cartilages to their free borders, and from thence along their under surfaces to the tibia. At the back part of the external one it forms a cul-de-sac between the groove on its surface and the tendon of the Popliteus; it surrounds the crucial ligaments, and lines the inner surface of the ligaments which enclose the joints. The pouch of synovial membrane between the Extensor tendon and front of the femur is supported, during the movements of the knee, by a small muscle, the Subcrureus, which is inserted into the upper part of the capsular ligament. The folds of synovial membrane and the fatty processes contained in them act, as it seems, mainly as padding to fill up interspaces and obviate concussions. Sometimes the bursa beneath the Quadriceps extensor is completely shut off from the rest of the synovial cavity, thus forming a closed sac between the Quadriceps and the lower part of the front of the femur; or it may communicate with the synovial cavity by a minute aperture. The bursas about the knee-joint are the following :— In front there are three burs^e : one is interposed between the patella and the skin; another of small size between the upper part of the tuberosity of the tibia and the ligamentum patellae ; and a third between the lower part of the tuberosity of the tibia and the skin. On the outer side there are four burs^e : (i) one beneath the outer head of the Gastrocnemius (which sometimes communicates with the joint); (2) one above the external lateral ligament between it and the tendon of the Biceps; (3) one beneath the external lateral ligament between it and the tendon of the Popliteus (this is sometimes only an expansion from the next bursa); (4) one beneath the tendon of the Popliteus between it and the condyle of the femur, which is almost always an extension from the synovial membrane. On the inner side there are five burs« : (i) one beneath the inner head of the Gastrocnemius, which sends a prolongation between the tendons of the Gastro- cnemius and Semimembranosus. This bursa often communicates with the joint; (2) one above the internal lateral ligament between it and the tendons of the Sartorius, Gracilis, and Semitendinosus ; (3) one beneath the internal lateral ligament between it and the tendon of the Semimembranosus (this is sometimes only an expansion from the next bursa) ; (4) one beneath the tendon of the Semimembranosus, between it and the head of the tibia ; (5) sometimes there is a bursa between the tendons of the Semimembranosus and of the Semitendinosus. Structures around the Joint.—In front and at the sides, the Quadriceps extensor; on the outer side, the tendons of the Biceps and the Popliteus and the external popliteal nerve ; on the inner side, the Sartorius, Gracilis, Semi- tendinosus and Semimembranosus ; behind, an expansion from the tendon of