THE CONJUNCTIVA 853 of the eyelids, and is reflected over the fore part of the sclerotic and cornea. In each of these situations, its structure presents some peculiarities. The imlpehral portion of the conjunctiva is thick, opaque, highly vascular, and covered with numerous papillae, its deeper parts presenting a considerable amount of lymphoid tissue. At the margin of-the lids it becomes continuous with the lining membrane of the ducts of the Meibomian glands, and, through the lachrymal canals, with the lining membrane of the lachrymal sac and nasal duct. At the outer angle of the upper lid it may be traced along the lachrymal ducts into the lachrymal gland; and at the inner angle of the eye it forms a semilunar fold, the plica semilunaris. The folds formed by the reflection of the conjunctiva from the lids on to the eye are called the superior and inferior palpebral folds, the former being the deeper of the two. Upon the sclerotic, the conjunctiva is loosely connected to the globe: it becomes thinner, loses its pai^illary structure, is transparent, and only slightly vascular in health. Upon the cornea, the con- junctiva consists only of epithelium, constituting the anterior layer of the cornea (conjunctival epithelium) already described (see page 837). Lymphatics arise in the conjunctiva in a delicate zone around the cornea, from which the vessels run to the ocular conjunctiva. Fig. 497.—The Meibomian glands, etc., seen from the inner surface of the eyelids. Puncta lachrymalia At the point of reflection of the conjunctiva from the lid on to the globe of the eye, termed the fornix conjunctives, are a number of mucous glands, which are much convoluted. They are chiefly found in the upper lid. Other glands, analogous to lymphoid follicles, and called by Henle trachoma glands, are found in the con- junctiva, and, according to Strohmeyer, are chiefly situated near the inner canthus of the eye. They were first described by Brush, in his description of Peyer's patches of the small intestines, as ' identical structures existing in the under eyelid of the ox.' The nerves in the conjunctiva are numerous and form rich plexuses. According to Krause, they terminate in a peculiar form of tactile corpuscle, which he terms ' terminal bulb.' The caru7icula lachrymalis is a small, reddish, conical-shaped body, situated at the inner canthus of the eye, and filling up the small triangular space in this situa- tion, the lacus.^lachrymalis. It consists of a cluster of follicles similar in structure to the Meibomian, covered with mucous membrane, and is the source of the whitish secretion which constantly collects at the inner angle of the eye. A few slender hairs are attached to its surface. On the outer side of the caruncula is a slight semilunar fold of mucous membrane, the concavity of which is directed towards the cornea ; it is called the j;Zica semilimaris. Miiller found smooth muscular fibres