139 PARIETAL BONES parietal foramen, which transmits a vein to the superior longitudinal sinus, and sometimes a small branch of the occipital artery. Its existence is not constant, and its size varies considerably. The internal surface (fig. 134), concave, presents eminences and depressions for lodging the convolutions of the cerebrum, and numerous furrows for the rami- fications of the meningeal arteries ; the latter run upwards and backwards from the anterior inferior angle, and from the central and posterior part of the lower border of the bone. Along the upper margin is part of a shallow groove, which, when joined to the opposite parietal, forms a channel for the superior longitudinal sinus, the elevated edges of which afford attachment to the falx cerebri. Near the groove are seen several depressions, especially in the skulls of old persons ; they lodge the Pacchionian bodies. The internal opening of the parietal foramen is also seen when that aperture exists. Fig. 133.—Left parietal bone. External surface. Articulates loith oxiposite imrietal hone \ Sj)he)ioid Borders.—The suijerior, the longest and thickest, is dentated to articulate with its fellow of the opposite side, forming the sagittal suture. The inferior is divided into three parts : of these, the anterior is thin and pointed, bevelled at the expense of the outer surface, and overlapped by the tip of the great wing of the sphenoid ; the middle portion is arched, bevelled at the expense of the outer surface, and overlapped by the squamous portion of the temporal; the posterior portion is thick and serrated for articulation with the mastoid portion of the temporal. The anterior border, deeply serrated, is bevelled at the expense of the outer surface above and of the inner below ; it articulates with the frontal bone, forming the coronal suture. The jjosterior border, deeply denticulated, articulates with the occipital, forming the lamhdoid suture. Angles.—The anterior superior angle, thin and pointed, corresponds with that