263 FEMUR Lower extremity Development (fig. 217).—The femur is developed by/it'e centres : one for the shaft, one for each extremity, and one for each trochanter. Of all the long bones, except the clavicle, it is the first to show traces of ossification ; this commences in the shaft, at about the fifth week of foetal life, the centres of ossification in the epiphyses appearing in the following order: First, in the lower end of the bone, at the ninth month of foetal life * (from this the condyles and tuberosities are formed); in the head at the end of the first year after birth; in the great trochanter, during the fourth year; and in the lesser trochanter, between the thir- teenth and fourteenth. The order in which the epiphyses are joined to the shaft is the reverse of that of their appearance : their junction does not commence until after puberty; the lesser tr,ochanter being first joined, then the great, then the head, and, lastly, the inferior extremity (the first in which ossifi- cation commenced), which is not united until the twentieth year. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty-three. To the great tro- chanter : the Gluteus medius, Gluteus minimus, Pyriformis, Ob- turator internus, Obturator externus. Gemellus superior. Gemellus in- ferior, and Quadratus femoris. To the lesser trochanter : the Psoas magnus and the Iliacus below it. To the shaft: the Vastus externus, Gluteus maximus, short head of the Biceps, Vastus internus, Adductor magnus, Pectineus, Adductor brevis, Adductor longus, Crureus, and Subcrureus. To the condyles : the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, and Popliteus. Surface Form.—The femur is covered with muscles, so that in fairly muscular subjects the shaft is not to be detected through its Heshy covering, and the only parts accessible to the touch are the outer surface of the great trochanter and the lower expanded end of the bone. The external surface of the great trochanter is to be felt, especially in certain positions of the limb. Its position is generally indicated by a depression, owing to the thickness of the Gluteus medius and minimus, which project above it. When, however, the thigh is flexed, and especially if crossed over the opposite one, the trochanter produces a blunt eminence on the surface. The upper border is about on a line with the spine of the OS pubis, and its exact level is indicated by a line drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, over the outer side of the hip, to the most prominent point of the tuberosity of the ischium. This is known as Nelaton's line. The outer and inner condyles of the lower extremity are easily to be felt. The outer one is more subcutaneous than the inner one, and readily felt. The tuberosity on it is comparatively little developed, but can be more or less easily recognised. The inner condyle is more thickly covered, and this gives a general convex outline to this part, especially when the knee is flexed. The tuberosity on it is easily felt, and at the upper part of the condyle the sharp tubercle for the insertion of the tendon of the Adductor magnus can be recognised without difficulty. When the knee is flexed, and the patella situated in the interval between the condyles and the upper end of the tibia, a part of the trochlear surface of the femur can be made out above the patella. Surgical Anatomy.—There are one or two points about the ossification of the femur bearing on practice to which allusion must be made. It has been stated above that the * This is the only epiphysis in which ossification begins before birth. Fig. 217.—Plan of the development of the femur. By five centres. Appears at ^ 4:th year ; >*vi f joins shaft ^ about 18th ijr. o Appears at 9th month {festal) '^^Appears at end * of 1st year ; joins shaft ahout 16th year Appears 13th-lith year; joins shaft ahout ISth year Joins shaft at 20th year