RADIUS 233 and one at the inner side of the bone, for articulation with the uhia. The carpal articular surface is of triangular form, concave, smooth, and divided by a slight antero-posterior ridge into two parts. Of these, the external is large, of a triangular form, and articulates with the scaphoid bone; the inner, smaller and quadrilateral, articulates with the semilunar. The articular surface for the ulna is called the sigmoid cavity of the radius ; it is narrow, concave, smooth, and articulates with the head of the ulna. The circumference of this end of the bone presents three surfaces—an anterior, external, and posterior. The anterior surface, rough and irregular, affords attachment to the anterior ligament of the wrist-joint. The external surface is prolonged obliquely downwards into a strong, conical projection, the styloid j^i'ocess, which gives attachment by its base to the tendon of the Supinator longus, and by its apex to the external lateral ligament of the wrist- joint. The outer surface of this process is marked by a flat groove, which runs obliquely downwards and forwards, and gives passage to the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and the Extensor brevis poUicis. The posterior surface is convex, affords attachment to the posterior ligament of the wrist, and is marked by three grooves. Proceeding from without inwards, the first groove is broad, but shallow, and subdivided into two by a slightly elevated ridge : the outer of these two transmits the tendon of the Extensor carpi radialis longior, the inner the tendon of the Extensor carpi radialis brevior. The second, which is near the centre of the bone, is a deep but narrow groove, bounded on its outer side by a sharply defined ridge ; it is directed obliquely from above, downwards and outwards, and transmits the tendon of the Extensor longus pollicis. The third, lying most internally, is a broad groove, for the passage of the tendons of the Extensor indicis and Extensor communis digitorum. Structure.—Similar to that of the other long bones. Development (fig. 203).—By three centres : one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. That for the shaft makes its appearance near the centre of the bone, soon after the development of the humerus commences. At birth the shaft is ossified, but the ends of the bone are cartilaginous. About the end of the second year, ossification com- mences in the lower epiphysis ; and about the fifth year, in the upper one. At the age of seventeen or eighteen the upper epiphysis becomes joined to the shaft; the lower epiphysis becoming- united about the twentieth year. Articulations.—With four bones : the humerus, ulna, scaphoid, and semilunar. Attachment of Muscles. — To nine: to the tuberosity, the Biceps ; to the oblique ridge, the Supinator brevis, Flexor sublimis digitorum, and Flexor longus pollicis; to the shaft (its anterior surface), the Flexor longus pollicis and Pronator quad- ratus ; (its posterior surface), the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and Extensor brevis pollicis; (its outer surface), the Pronator radii teres ; and to the styloid process, the Supinator longus. Surface Form.—Just below, and a little in front of, the posterior surface of the external condyle a part of the head of the radius may be felt, covered by the orbicular and external Fig. 203.—Plan of the development of the radius. By three centres. Appears at fifth_ year Head Unites tvith shaft abo2ct puberty Appears at second year Lo7ner extremity Unites ivith shaft about twentieth year