MUSCLES AND FASCIA 466 insertion: one to the Trapezium, and the other to blend with the origin of the Abductor poUicis. Relations.—By its siqjerficial surface, with the Extensor communis digitorum, Extensor minimi digiti, and fascia of the forearm; and with the branches of the posterior interosseous artery and nerve which cross it. By its cleejj surface, with the ulna, interosseous membrane, radius, the tendons of the Extensor carpi radiahs longior and brevior, which it crosses obliquely; and, at the outer side of the wrist, with the radial vessels. By its upper border, with the Supinator brevis. By its loiver border, with the Extensor brevis polhcis. The Extensor brevis poUicis {Extensor primi internodii pollicis), the smallest muscle of this group, lies on the inner side of the preceding. It arises from the pos- terior surface of the shaft of the radius, below the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and from the interosseous membrane. Its direction is similar to that of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, its tendon passing through the same groove on the outer side of the styloid process, to be inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—The same as those of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. The Extensor longus pollicis {Extensor secundi internodii pollicis) is much larger than the preceding muscle, the origin of which it partly covers in. It arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the ulna, below the origin of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and from the interosseous membrane. It terminates in a tendon, which passes through a separate compartment in the annular ligament, lying in a narrow, oblique groove at the back part of the lower end of the radius. It then crosses obliquely the tendons of the Extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, being separated from the other extensor tendons of the thumb by a triangular interval, in which the radial artery is found ; and is finally inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the same parts as the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. By its deep surface, with the ulna, interosseous membrane, the posterior interosseous nerve, radius, the wrist, the radial vessels, and metacarpal bone of the thumb. The Extensor indicis is a narrow, elongated muscle, placed on the inner side of, and parallel with, the preceding. It arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the ulna, below the origin of the Extensor longus pollicis and from the inter- osseous membrane. Its tendon passes with the Extensor communis digitorum through the same canal in the annular ligament, and subsequently joins the tendon of the Extensor communis which belongs to the index finger, opposite the lower end of the corresponding metacarpal bone, lying to the ulnar side of the tendon from the common Extensor. Relations.—^The relations are similar to those of the preceding muscles. Nerves.—The Supinator longus, Extensor carpi radialis longior, and Anconeus, are supplied by branches from the musculo-spiral nerve ; the remaining muscles of the radial and posterior brachial regions, by the posterior interosseous nerve. Actions.—The muscles of the radial and posterior brachial regions, which comprise all the extensor and supinator muscles, act upon the forearm, wrist, and hand; they are the direct antagonists of the pronator and flexor muscles. The Anconeus assists the Triceps in extending the forearm. The chief action of the Supinator longus is that of a flexor of the elbow-joint, but in addition to this it may act both as a supinator or a pronator : that is to say, if the forearm is forcibly pronated, it will act as a supinator, and bring the bones into a position midway between supination and pronation ; and, vice versa, if the arm is forcibly supinated, it will act as a jpronator, and bring the bones into the same position, midway between supination and pronation. The action of the muscle is therefore to throw the forearm and hand into the position they naturally occupy when placed across the chest. The Supinator brevis is a supinator ; that is to say, when the radius has been carried across the ulna in pronation, and the back of the hand is directed forwards, this muscle carries the radius back again to its normal position on the