I074 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERIX.EUM Parts divided in the Oj^eration.—The various structures divided in this operation are as follows :—the integument, superficial fascia, inferior haemorrhoidal vessels and nerves and probably the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, the posterior fibres of the Accele- rator urinte. the Transversus perintei muscle and artery, the deep permeal fascia, the anterior fibres of the Levator ani, part of the Compressor urethrse, the membranous and prostatic portions of the lu'ethra, and part of the prostate gland. Parts to he avoided in the Operation.—In making the necessary incisions in ihe peringeum for the extraction of a calculus, the following parts should be avoided. The primary incision should not be made too near the middle line, for fear of wounding the bulb of the corpus spongiosimi or the rectum : nor too far externally, otherwise the pudic artery may be imphcated as it ascends along the imier border of the pubic arch. If the incisions are carried too far forwards, the artery of the bulb may be divided ; if carried too far backwards, the entire breadth of the prostate and neck of the bladder may be cut through, which allows the urine to become infiltrated behind the pelvic fascia into the loose areolar tissue between the bladder and rectum, instead of escaping externally; diffuse inflammation is consequently set up, and peritonitis, fi'om the close proximity of the recto- vesical peritoneal fold, is the result. If, on the contrary, the prostate is divided in front of the base of the gland, the urine makes its way externally, and there is less danger of infiltration takmg place. Dui-ing the operation it is of great importance that the finger should be passed into the bladder hefore the staff is removed; if this is neglected, and if the incision made in the prostate and neck of the bladder is too smaU, great difiiculty may be experienced in introducing the finger afterwards ; and in the child, where the connections of the bladder to the sm-rounding parts are very loose, the force made in the attempt is sufficient to displace the bladder upwards into the abdomen, out of the reach of the operator. Such a proceeding has not imfrequently occurred, producing the most embarrassing results, and total failm^e of the operation. It is necessary to bear in mind that the arteries in the perinaeum occasionally take an abnormal course. Thus the artery of the biffb, when it arises, as sometimes happens, from the pudic opposite the tuber ischii, is liable to be wounded m the operation for lithotomy, in its passage forwards to the bulb. The accessory pudic may be divided near the posterior border of the prostate gland, if this is completely cut across ; and the prostatic veins, especially in people advanced in life, are of large size, and give rise, when divided, to troublesome haemorrhage. The Female Peeinjeum The female perinaeum presents certain differences from that of the male, in consequence of the whole of the structm'es which constitute it being perforated in the middle line by the vulvo-vaginal passage. The superficial fascia, as in the male, consists of two layers : of which the superficial one is continuous with the superficial fascia over the rest of the body ; and the deep layer, corresponding to the fascia of Colles in the male, is like it attached to the ischio-pubic ramus, and in front is continued forwards through the labia majora to the inguinal region. It is of less extent than the male, in consequence of being perforated by the aperture of the vulva. On remo\dng this fascia the muscles of the female perinaeum, which have already been described (page 442), are exposed. The Sphincter vaginae, corre- sponding to the Accelerator urin^e in the male, consists of an attenuated plane of fibres, forming an orbicular muscle around the orifice of the vagina, instead of being united in a median raphe, as in the male. The Erector clitoridis is propor- tionately reduced in size, bub differs in no other respect; and the Transversus perinsi is similar to the muscle of the same name in the male. The deep perineal fascia is not so strongly marked as in the male. It transmits the urethra, and is wide, separated in the median line by the aperture of the vagina. The Compressor ^JxQ^^nid^ {Transversus perincei profundus) is the analogue of the Compressor urethrae in the male. It arises from the ischio-pubic ramus, and, passing inw^ards, its anterior fibres blend with the muscle of the opposite side in front of the urethra ; its middle fibres, the most numerous, are inserted into the side of the vagina, and the posterior fibres join the central point of the perinaeum. The distribution of the internal pudic artery is the same as in the male (see page 607), and the pudic nerve has also a similar arrangement, the dorsal nerve being, however, very small and supplying the clitoris.