KNEE-JOINT 349 the most prominent portion of the condyles, and thus afford greater leverage to the Quadriceps by increasing its distance from the centre of motion. In complete extension the patella is drawn up so that only the lower facets are in contact with the articular surfaces of the condyles. The narrow strip along the inner border is an exception to this, and would appear to be in contact with the internal condyle throughout its whole extent, in every position of the joint. As in the elbow, so it is in the knee—the axis of rotation in flexion and extension is not precisely at right angles to the axis of the bone, but during flexion there is a certain amount of alteration of plane ; so that, whereas in flexion the femur and tibia are in the same plane, in extension the one bone forms an angle of about ten degrees with the other. There is, however, this difference between the two extremities—that in the upper, during extension, the humeri are parallel, and the bones of the forearm diverge; in the lower, the femora converge below, and the tibiae are parallel. In addition to the slight rotation during flexion and extension, the tibia enjoys an independent rotation on the condyles of the femur, in certain positions of the joint. This movement takes place between the interarticular fibro-cartilages and the tibia, whereas the movement of flexion and extension takes place between the interarticular fibro-cartilages and the femur. So that the knee may be said to consist of two joints, separated by the fibro-cartilages : an upper (menisco-femoral), in which flexion and extension take place ; and a lower (menisco-tibial), allowing of a certain amount of rotation. This latter movement can only take place in the semiflexed position of the limb, when all the ligaments are relaxed. During flexion the ligamentum patellae is put upon the stretch, as is also the posterior crucial ligament in extreme flexion. The other ligaments are all relaxed by flexion of the joint, though the relaxation of the anterior crucial ligament is very trifling. Flexion is only checked during life by the contact of the leg with the thigh. In extension the ligamentum patellae becomes relaxed, and, in extreme extension, completely so, so as to allow free lateral movement to the patella, which then rests on the front of the lower end of the femur. The other ligaments, with the exception of the posterior crucial, which is partly relaxed, are all on the stretch. When the limb has been brought into a straight line, extension is checked mainly by the tension of all the ligaments except the posterior crucial and ligamentum patellae. The movements of rotation, of which the knee is capable, are permitted in the semi-flexed condition by the partial relaxation of both crucial ligaments, as well as the lateral ligaments. Rotation inwards appears to be limited by the tension of the anterior crucia ] ligament, and by the interlocking of the two liga- ments ; but rotation outwards does not appear to be checked by either crucial ligament, since they uncross during the execution of this movement, but by the lateral ligaments, especially the internal. The main function of the crucial liga- ments is to act as a direct bond of union between the tibia and femur, preventing the former bone from being carried too far backwards or forwards. Thus the anterior crucial ligament prevents the tibia being carried too far forwards by the extensor tendons, and the posterior crucial checks too great movement backwards by the flexors. They also assist the lateral ligaments in resisting any lateral bending of the joint. The interarticular cartilages are intended, as it seems, to adapt the surface of the tibia to the shape of the femur to a certain extent, so as to fill up the intervals which would otherwise be left in the varying positions of the joint, and to interrupt the jars which would be so frequently transmitted up the limb in jumping or falls on the feet; also to permit of the two varieties of motion, flexion and extension, and rotation, as explained above. The patella is a great defence to the knee-joint from any injury inflicted in front, and it distributes upon a large and tolerably even surface during kneeling the pressure which would otherwise fall upon the prominent ridges of the condyles ; it also affords leverage to the Quadriceps extensor muscle to act upon the tibia, and Mr. Ward has pointed out * how this leverage varies in the various positions of the * Humcm Osteology, p. 405.