NERVOUS SYSTEM 682 can be traced to be continuous with the non-decussating fibres of the pyramid of the medulla. The remainder of the anterior column of the cord forms the fundamental fasciculus, which is continued into the deeper part of the medulla. The lateral column of the cord is divided into four tracts, the anterior division of which is called the anterior radicular zone, the peripheral portion of the posterior part the cerebellar column, and the internal part, next the grey substance, is termed the mixed lateral column; whilst an intermediate portion, between these last two, is the crossed pyramidal fasciculus, its fibres when traced upwards forming the decussating portion of the pyramid of the medulla oblongata. The other three portions of the lateral column can be traced into the lateral tract of the medulla, the peripheral fibres, or those forming the cerebellar column, passing through it to the cerebellum. The posterior column of the cord is divided into two : the portion which lies next the posterior median fissure is called the column of Goll (posterior median), Fig. 408.—Transverse section of the grey substance of the spinal cord through the middle of the lumbar enlargement. On the left side of the figure groups of large cells are seen; on the right side, the course of the fibres is shown without the cells. Magnified 13 diameters. and if traced upwards is found to be continuous with the fasciculus gracilis of the medulla. The remainder of the posterior column is called the cuneate fasciculus, or Burdach's column, (posterior external), and is prolonged into the medulla under the same name. The grey substance of the cord occupies its central part in the shape of two crescentic horns, joined together by a commissure. Each of these crescents has an anterior and posterior cornu. The posterior horn consists of two parts—the cajmt cornu, or expanded extremity of the horn (fig. 408), round which is a lighter space or lamina, of gelatinous substance ; and the cervix cornu, or narrower portion, which connects it with the rest of the grey substance. The gelatinous substance is a peculiar accumulation of neuroglia (Klein), and has been named by Rolando the substantia cinerea gelatinosa. The anterior horn of the grey substance in the cervical and lumbar swellings, where it gives origin to the nerves of the extremities, is much larger than in any