ORGANS OF DIGESTION 890 Here and there in the alveoU are seen pecuhar half-moon-shaped bodies, lying between the cells and the membrana propria of the alveolus. They are termed the crescents of Giaimz.zi, or the demilunes of Heidenhain (fig. 518), and are regarded by Pfliiger as due to post-mortem change, but by most other later observers they are believed to be composed of polyhedral granular cells, which Heidenhain regards as young epithelial cells destined to supply the place of those salivary cells which have undergone disintegration. This view, however, is not accepted by Klein. Serous alveoli.—In the serous alveoli the cells almost completely fill the cavity, so that there is hardly any lumen perceptible. Instead of presenting the clear transparent appearance of the cells of the mucous alveoh, they present a granular appearance, due to distinct granules, of an albuminous nature, embedded in a closely reticulated protoplasm. The ducts which originate out of the alveoli are lined at their commencement by epithelium which differs little from the pavement type. As the ducts enlarge, the epithelial cells change to the columnar type, and they are described by Pfliiger as attached to the basement membrane by a brush of fine hair-like processes, which he believes to be continuous with the nerve-fibres. Other anatomists regard these cells as merely striated on their deep surface. The lobules of the salivary glands are richly supplied with blood-vessels which form a dense network in the interalveolar spaces. Fine plexuses of nerves are also found in the Fig. 519.—Illustrating Pfluger's views of the termination of the nerves in the alveolar colls. (From Strieker's ' Handbook.' ) A. Direct passage of uerve into a salivary cell. B. By the medium of a multipolar ganglion-cell, [/. interlobular tissue. Pfliiger describes the nerves as being directly continuous with the salivary cells of the alveolus, the nerve sometimes passing through a ganglion- cell just before joining the alveolus (fig. 519, a and b). This fact has not, however, been corroborated by other observers. There is no doubt that ganglia are to be found in some salivary glands in connection with the nerve-plexuses in the inter- lobular tissue ; thus they are to be found in the submaxillary, but not in the parotid ; but whether the ultimate fibrils are connected with the salivary cells, as asserted by Pfliiger, remains to be proved. In the submaxillary and sublingual glands the lobes are larger and more loosely united than in the parotid. Mucous Glands.—Besides the salivary glands proper, numerous other glands are found in the mouth. They appear to secrete mucus only, which serves to keep the mouth moist during the intervals of the salivary secretion, and which is mixed with that secretion in swallowing. Many of these glands are found at the posterior part of the dorsum of the tongue, behind the circumvallate papilla, and also along its margins as far forward as the apex.* Others lie around and in the tonsil * It has recently been shown by Ebner that many of these glands open into the trenches around the circumvallate papillae, and that their secretion is more watery than that of ordinary mucous glands. He supposes that they assist in the more rapid distribution of the substance to be tasted over tlie region where the special apparatus of the sense of taste is situated.