lOIO THE UEINARY ORGANS fascia. Ifc is covered posteriorly, for a slight extent, by the peritoneum, which is reflected from it upon the rectum, forming the recto-vesical fold. The portion of the bladder in relation with the rectum corresponds to a triangular space bounded, in front, by the prostate gland ; behind, by the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum ; and on each side, by the vesicula seminalis and vas deferens. It is separated from direct contact with the rectum by the recto-vesical fascia. When the bladder is very full, the peritoneal fold is raised with it, and the distance between its reflection and the anus is about four inches ; but this distance is much diminished when the bladder is empty and contracted. In tlie fetiiale, the base of the bladder lies in contact with the lower part of the cervix uteri, is adherent to the anterior wall of the vagina, and separated from the upper part of the anterior surface of the cervix uteri by a fold of the peritoneum. The, so-called, neck (cervix) of the bladder is the point of commencement of the urethra ; there is, however, no tapering part, which would constitute a true neck, but the bladder suddenly contracts to the opening of the urethra. In the male its direction is oblique in the erect posture, and it is surrounded by the prostate gland. In the female its direction is obliquely downwards and forwards. Ligaments.—The bladder is retained in its place by ligaments, which are divided into true and false. The true ligaments are five in number: two anterior, two Fig. 602,— Superficial layer of the epi- thelium of the bladder. Composed of polyhedral cells of A^arious sizes, each with one, two, or three miclei. (Klein and Noble Smith.) Fig. 603.—Deep layers of epithelium of bladder, showing large club-shaped cells above, and smaller, more spindle- shaped cells below—each with an oval nucleus. (Klein and Noble Smith.) lateral, and the urachus. The false ligaments, also five in number, are formed by folds of the peritoneum. The anterior ligaments ('puho-prostatic) extend from the back of the os pubis, one on each side of the symphysis, to the front of the neck of the bladder, over the upper surface of the prostate gland. These ligaments are formed by the recto- vesical fascia, and contain a few muscular fibres prolonged from the bladder. The lateral ligaments, also formed by the recto-vesical fascia, are broader and thinner than the preceding. They are attached to the lateral parts of the prostate, and to the sides of the base of the bladder. The urachus is the fibro-muscular cord already mentioned, extending between the summit of the bladder and the umbilicus. It is broad below, at its attachment to the bladder, and becomes narrower as it ascends. The/aZse ligaments of the bladder are two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The tiuo jjosterior pass forwards, in the male, from the sides of the rectum : in the female, from the sides of the uterus, to the posterior and lateral aspect of the bladder : they form the lateral boundaries of the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum, and contain the obliterated hypogastric arteries, and the ureters, together with vessels and nerves. The tiuo lateral ligaments are reflections of the peritoneum, from the iliac fossae to the sides of the bladder. The s%i]jerior ligament is the prominent fold of peritoneum extending from the