711 INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM hemispheres are seen to be separated by the great longitudinal fissure, this fissure being interrupted by the posterior rounded border of the corpus callosum. General Aeeangement of the Pabts composing the Cekebkum As the peduncles or crura of the cerebrum enter the hemispheres, they diverge from one another, so as to leave an interval between them, the interpeduncular space. As they ascend, the component fibres of each pass through two large masses of grey matter, the ganglia of the brain, called the thalamiLs opticus and corpus striatum, which project as rounded eminences from the upper and inner side of each peduncle. The hemispheres are connected together, above these masses, by the great transverse commissure, the corpus callosum ; the interval left between its under surface, the upper surface of the ganglia, and the parts closing the inter- peduncular space, forms the general ventricular cavity. The upper part of this cavity is subdivided into two by a vertical septum, the septum lucidum ; and thus the two lateral ventricles are formed. The lower part of the cavity forms the third ventricle, which communicates with the lateral ventricles above, and with the fourth ventricle behind. The fifth ventricle is the interval left between the two layers composing the septum lucidum. Interior of the Cerebrum If the upper part of either hemisphere is removed with a scalpel, about half an inch above the level of the corpus callosum, its internal white matter will be exposed. It is an oval-shaped centre, of white substance, surrounded on all sides by a narrow convoluted margin of grey matter which presents an equal thickness in nearly every part. This white central mass has been called the centrum ovale minus. Its surface is studded with numerous minute red dots {puncta vasculosa), produced by the escape of blood from divided blood-vessels. In inflammation or great congestion of the brain, these are very numerous, and of a dark colour. If the remaining portion of one hemisphere is slightly separated from the other, a broad band of white substance will be observed connecting them, at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure; this is the corpus callosum. The margins of the hemi- spheres which overlap this portion of the brain are called the labia cerebri. Each labium is part of the convolution of the corpus callosum {gyrus fornicatus) already described ; and the space between it and the upper surface of the corpus callosum has been termed the ventricle of the corpus callosum (fig. 427). The hemispheres should now be sliced off, to a level with the corpus callosum, when the white substance of that structure will be seen connecting the two hemispheres. The large expanse of medullary matter now exposed, surrounded by the convoluted margin of grey substance, is called the centrum ovale majus of Vieussens. The corpus callosum is a thick stratum of transverse fibres, exposed at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure. It connects the two hemispheres of the brain, forming their great transverse commissure ; and forms the roof of a space in the interior of each hemisphere, the lateral vejitricle. It is about four inches in length, extending to within an inch and a half of the anterior, and to within two inches and a half of the posterior, part of the brain. It is someAvhat broader behind than in front, and is thicker at either end than in its central part, being thickest behind. It presents a somewhat arched form (fig. 431, 5), from before backwards, terminating anteriorly in a rounded border, which curves, downwards and backwards, between the frontal lobes to the base of the brain. In its course it forms a distinct bend, named the genu, and is then continued downwards and backwards to the base of the brain, where it is connected, through the lamina cinerea, with the tuber cinereum. The reflected portion of the corpus callosum is called the beak or rostrum; it becomes gradually narrower as it descends, and is attached by its lateral margins to the frontal lobes. At its termination the corpus callosum gives off two bundles of white substance, which, diverging from