THE SPERMATIC CORD 1023 areolar tissue. The muscular fibres are derived from the lower border of the Internal oblique muscle, during the descent of the testis. The fascia propria is a thin membranous layer, which loosely invests the surface of the cord. It is a continuation downwards of the infundibuliform process of the fascia transversalis, and the subperitoneal areolar tissue, and is also acquired during- the descent of the testis in the foetus. The tunica vaginalis is described with the proper covering of the testis. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the coverings of the testis are : the superficial and deep external pudic, from the femoral; the superficial perineal branch of the internal pudic ; and the cremasteric branch from the epigastric. The veins follow the course of the corresponding arteries. The lymphatics terminate in the inguinal glands. The nerves are : the ilio-inguinal branch of the lumbar plexus, the two superficial perineal branches of the internal pudic nerve, the inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic nerve, and the genital branch of the genito- crural nerve. The Spermatic Cord extends from the internal abdominal ring, where the structures of which it is composed converge, to the back part of the testicle. In the abdominal wall the cord passes obliquely along the inguinal canal, lying at first beneath the Internal oblique, and upon the fascia transversalis; but nearer the pubes, it rests upon Poapart's ligament, having the aponeurosis of the External oblique in front of it, and the conjoined tendon behind it. It then escapes at the external ring, and descends nearly vertically into the scrotum. The left cord is rather longer than the right, consequently the left testis hangs somewhat lower than its fellow. Structure of the Spermatic Cord.—The spermatic cord is composed of arteries, veins, lymphatics, nerves, and the excretory duct of the testicle. These structures are connected together by areolar tissue, and invested by the fasciae brought down by the testicle in its descent. The arteries of the cord are : the spermatic, from the aorta ; the artery of the vas deferens, from the superior vesical; and the cremasteric, from the deep epigastric. The spermatic artery, a branch of the abdominal aorta, escapes from the abdomen at the internal or deep abdominal ring, and accompanies the other con- stituents of the spermatic cord along the inguinal canal and through the external abdominal ring into the scrotum. It then descends to the testicle, and, becoming- tortuous, divides into several branches, two or three of which accompany the vas deferens and supply the epididymis, anastomosing with the artery of the vas deferens ; others pierce the back of the tunica albuginea and supply the substance of the testis. The cremasteric artery is a branch of the deep epigastric artery. It accom- panies the spermatic cord and supplies the Cremaster muscle and other coverings of the cord, anastomosing with the spermatic artery. The artery of the vas deferens, a branch of the superior vesical, is a long slender vessel, which accompanies the vas deferens, ramifying upon the coats of that duct, and anastomosing with the spermatic artery near the testis. The spermatic veins emerge from the back of the testis, and receive tributaries from the epididymis ; they unite and form a convoluted plexus {plexus pampini- formis), which forms the chief mass of the cord : the vessels composing this plexus are very numerous, and ascend along the cord in front of the vas deferens ; below the external or superficial abdominal ring they unite to form three or four veins, which pass along the spermatic canal, and, entering the abdomen through the internal or deep abdominal ring, coalesce to form two veins. These again unite to form a single vein, which opens on the right side into the inferior vena cava, at an acute angle, and on the left side into the renal vein at a right angle. The lymphatic vessels terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are the spermatic plexus from the sympathetic, joined by filaments from the pelvic plexus which accompany the artery of the vas deferens.