FEMALE OEGANS OF GENEEATION I044 pervious even in advanced life. It is analogous to the peritoneal pouch which accompanies the descent of the testis. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes are the ovarian from the aorta. They enter the attached border, or hilum, of the ovary. The veins follow the course of the arteries ; they form a plexus near the ovary, the ya.mimiiform plexus. The nerves are derived from the inferior hypogastric or pelvic plexus, and from the ovarian plexus, the Fallopian tube receiving a branch from one of the uterine nerves. Mammaey Glands The mammae, or breasts, are accessory glands of the generative system, which secrete the milk. They exist in the male as well as in the female; but in the former only in the rudimentary state, unless their growth is excited by peculiar circumstances. In the female they are two large hemispherical eminences situated Fig. 620.—Dissection of the lower half of the female breast during the period of lactation. (From Luschka.) towards the lateral aspect of the pectoral region, corresponding to the intervals between the third and sixth or seventh ribs, and extending from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Their weight and dimensions differ at different periods of life, and in different individuals. Before puberty they are of small size, but enlarge as the generative organs become more completely developed. They increase during pregnancy, and especially after delivery, and become atrophied in old age. The left mamma is generally a little larger than the right. Their base is nearly circular, flattened, or slightly concave, and has its long diameter directed upwards and outwards towards the axilla; they are separated from the Pectoral muscles by a thin layer of superficial fascia. The outer surface of the mamma is convex, and presents, just below the centre, a small conical prominence, the nipple [mammilla). The surface of the nipple is dark-coloured, and surrounded by an areola having a coloured tint. In the virgin the areola is of a delicate rosy hue ; about the second month after impregnation it enlarges and acquires a darker tinge, which increases as pregnancy advances, becoming in some cases of a dark brown,