434 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE thorax, materially assisting expiration. If the pelvis alone is fixed, the thorax is hent directly forward, when the muscles of both sides act, or to either side when those of the two sides act alternately, rotation of the trunk at the same time taking place to the opposite side. If the thorax is fixed, these muscles, acting together, draw the pelvis upwards, as in climbing; or, acting singly, they draw the pelvis upwards, and rotate the vertebral column to one side or the other. The Eecti muscles, acting from below, depress the thorax, and consequently flex the vertebral column; when acting from above, they flex the pelvis upon the vertebral column. The Pyramidales are tensors of the linea alba. The fascia transversalis is a thin aponeurotic membrane which lies betw^een the inner surface of the Transversalis muscle and the peritoneum. It forms part of the general layer of fascia which lines the interior of the abdominal and pelvic cavities, and is directly continuous with the iliac and pelvic fasciae. In the inguinal region, the transversahs fascia is thick and dense in structure and joined by fibres from the aponeurosis of the Transversalis muscle, but it becomes thin and cellular as it ascends to the diaphragm. Below, it has the following attachments : external to the femoral vessels it is connected to the posterior margin of Poupart's hgament, and is there continuous with the iliac fascia. Internal to the femoral vessels it is thin and attached to the os pubis and pectineal line, behind the conjoined tendon, with which it is united; and, corresponding to the point where the femoral vessels pass into the thigh, this fascia descends in front of them, forming the anterior wall of the crural sheath. The spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female pass through this fascia, the point where they pass through is called the internal abdominal ring. This opening is not visible externally owing to a prolongation of the transversalis fascia on these structures forming the infundi- buliform process. The internal or deep abdominal ring is situated in the transversalis fascia, midw^ay between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the os pubis, and about half an inch above Poupart's ligament. It is of an oval form, the extremities of the oval directed upwards and downwards, varies in size in different subjects, and is much larger in the male than in the female. It is bounded, above and externally, by the arched fibres of the Transversalis; below and internally, by the deep epigastric vessels. It transmits the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female. From its circumference a thin funnel-shaped membrane, the infundihuliform fascia, is continued round the cord and testis, enclosing them in a distinct pouch. When the sac of an obliqiie inguinal hernia passes through the internal or deep abdominal ring, the infundibuliform process of the transversalis fascia forms one of its coverings. The inguinal or spermatic canal contains the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female. It is an oblique canal about an inch and a half in length, directed downw^ards and inwards, and placed parallel to and a little above Poupart's ligament. It commences above at the internal or deep abdominal ring, which is the point where the cord enters the spermatic canal, and terminates below at the external ring. It is bounded in front by the integument and superficial fascia, by the aponeurosis of the External oblique throughout its whole length, and by the Internal oblique for its outer third ; behind, by the triangular ligament, the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis, transversalis fascia, and the subperitoneal fat and peritoneum ; above, by the arched fibres of the Internal oblique and Transversalis; below, by the union of the fascia transversalis with Poupart's ligament. That form of protrusion in which the intestine follows the course of the spermatic cord along the spermatic canal is called oblique inguinal hernia. The Deep Crural Arch.—Passing across the front of the crural arch, on the abdominal side of Poupart's ligament and closely connected with it, is a thickened band of fibres called the deep crural arch. It is apparently a thickening of the