ANTEEIOR BRACHIAL REGION 459 the tubercle to the insertion of the Pronator radii teres. The fibres pass vertically downwards, forming a broad and thick muscle, which divides into four tendons about the middle of the forearm ; as these tendons pass beneath the annular ligament into the palm of the hand, they are arranged in pairs, the anterior pair corresponding to the middle and ring fingers, the posterior pair to the index and little fingers. The tendons diverge from one another as they pass onwards. Opposite the base of the first phalanges each tendon divides into two slips, to allow of the passage of the corresponding tendons of the Flexor profundus digitorum ; the two portions of the tendon then unite and form a grooved channel for the reception of the accompanying deep flexor tendon. Finally they subdivide a second time, to be inserted into the sides of the second phalanges about their middle. After leaving the palm, these tendons accompanied by the deep flexor tendons lie in osseo-aponeurotic canals, formed by the fibrous sheath of the tendons and the bones (fig. 316). Relations.—In the forearm, by its superficial surface, with the deep fascia and all the preceding superficial muscles ; by its cleeio surface, with the Flexor profundus digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis, the ulnar vessels and nerve, and the median nerve. In the hand, its tendons are in relation, in front, with the palmar fascia, superficial palmar arch, and the branches of the median nerve ; behind, with the tendons of the deep Flexor and the Lumbricales. Fibrous sheath of the Flexor tendons.—The flexor tendons of the fingers a they run along the phalanges are retained against the bones by a fibrous sheath, forming osseo-aponeurotic canals. These sheaths are formed b.y strong fibrous bands, which arch across the tendons, and are attached on each side to the margins of the phalanges. Opposite the middle of the proximal and second phalanges the sheath is very strong, and the fibres pass transversely ; but opposite the joints it is much thinner, and the fibres pass obliquely. Each sheath is lined by a synovial membrane, which is reflected on the contained tendon. Anterior Brachial Region Deep Layer Flexor profundus digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadratus. Dissection.—Divide each of the superficial muscles at its centre, and turn either end aside; the deep layer of muscles, together with the median nerve and u.lnar vessels, will then be exposed. The Flexor profundus digitorum (perforans) (fig. 307) is situated on the ulnar side of the forearm, immediately beneath the superficial Flexors. It arises from the upper three-fourths of the anterior and inner surfaces of the shaft of the ulna, embracing the insertion of the Brachialis anticus above, and extending, below, to within a short distance of the Pronator quadratus. It also arises from a depression on the inner side of the coronoid process; by an aponeurosis from the upper three-fourths of the posterior border of the ulna, in common with the Flexor and Extensor carpi ulnaris ; and from the ulnar half of the interosseous membrane. The fibres form a fleshy belly of considerable size, which divides into four tendons : these pass under the annular ligament beneath the tendons of the Flexor sublimis digitorum. Opposite the first phalanges, the tendons pass between the two slips of the tendons of the Flexor sublimis digitorum, and are finally inserted into the bases of the last phalanges. The tendon of the index finger is distinct; the rest are connected together by cellular tissue and tendinous slips, as far as the palm of the hand. The tendons of this and those of the Flexor subhmis digitorum, whilst contained in the osseo-aponeurotic canals of the fingers, are invested in a synovial sheath, and are connected to each other, and to the phalanges, by slender, tendinous filaments, called vincula accessoria tenclinum. One of these connects the deep tendon to the bone, before it passes through the superficial tendon; a second connects