DEVELOPMENT OF NERVOUS CENTRES 89 of the alimentary canal, which, as we shall hereafter see, is formed by the inner or splanchno-plem'al layer of the mesoblast and the hypoblast, the two cavities being- separated by all the layers of the blastodermic membrane. A commmiication between the two is, however, gradually effected by the absorption of these layers at the anterior extremity of the primitive alimentary cavity, and the hinder portion of the epiblastic involution from which the mouth is formed. Between each of these visceral arches are clefts, four in number, which run through the tissues of the neck to the cavity of the pharynx; the first persists, though only in a portion of its extent, forming the Eustachian tube, the meatus auditorius, and the tympanic cavity. The other fissures are wholly closed by the sixth week. Development of the Nervous Centres and the Nerves.—The medullary groove above described (page 75) presents, about the third week, three dilatations at its upper end, separated by two constrictions, and at its posterior part another dila- tation called the rJiomboidal sinus. Soon after- wards the groove becomes a closed canal (medid- Fig. 93.—Section of the medulla lary canal) and a soft blastema lines it, exhibit- ing corresponding dilatations. This is the rudi- ment of the cerebro-spinal axis. As the embryo grows, its cephalic part becomes more curved, and the three dilatations at the anterior end of the primitive cerebro-spinal axis become vesicles distinctly separated from each other (fig. 90). These are the cerebral vesicles—anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior cerebral vesicle (situ- ated, at this period, quite below the middle vesicle) is the rudiment of the third ventricle, and of the parts surrounding it, viz. the optic thalami, and all the parts which form the floor of the third ventricle. The middle vesicle represents the aqueduct of Sylvius, with the corpora quadrige- mina. The posterior vesicle is developed into the fourth ventricle, and its walls form the pons Varolii, medulla oblongata, and the parts in the floor of the fourth ventricle. At an early period in the development of this primitive brain, a protrusion takes place from the anterior vesicle, which is at first simple, but soon becomes divided into two parts by an antero-posterior fissure. These expand laterally, and the cerebral hemispheres and corpora striata are developed from them. From the fore-part of the posterior cerebral vesicle a similar protrusion takes place, forming the rudiment of the cerebellum. In consequence of these protrusions or outgrowths taking place, the three primary cerebral vesicles are now converted into six permanent rudiments of the brain and medulla oblongata. The anterior part of the original anterior cerebral vesicle (fore-brain, prosencephalon), now divided into two, constitutes the cerebral hemispheres, corpus callosum, corpora striata, fornix, lateral ventricles, and olfactory bulbs. These parts lie at first quite covered and concealed by those formed from the middle primary vesicle, and by the optic thalami, which, with the optic nerves, the third ventricle and the parts in its floor, are furnished by the posterior portion of the anterior vesicle (inter-brain, thalamencephalon). By the third month, however, the hemispheres have risen above the optic thalami, and by the sixth month above the cerebellum. Fissures are seen on the surface of the hemispheres at the third month, but all except one disappear. This one persists, and forms the fissure of Sylvius. The permanent fissures for the convolutions do not form till about the seventh or eighth month. The middle cerebral vesicle (mid-brain, mesencephalon) is at first situated at the summit of the angle shown on fig. 90. Its smooth surface is soon in the cervical region, at six weeks. Magnified 50 diame- ters. 6 I. Central canal. 2. Its epithelium. 3. Anterior grey matter. 4. Posterior grey matter. 5. Anterior commissure. 6. Posterior portion of the canal, closed by the epithelium only. 7. Anterior column. 8. Lateral column, g. Pos- terior column. 10. Anterior roots. II. Posterior roots.