995 THE KIDNEYS Fig Vertical section of kidney. The superior extremity, directed slightly inwards as well as upwards, is thick and rounded, and is surmounted by the suprarenal capsule, which covers also a small portion of the anterior surface. The inferior extremity, directed a little outwards as well as downwards, is smaller and thinner than the superior. It extends to within two inches of the crest of the ilium. At the hilum of the kidney the relative position of the main structures passing into and out of the kidney is as follows:—the vein is in front, the artery in the middle, and the duct or ureter behind and towards the lower part. By a knowledge of these relations, the student may distinguish between the right and left kidney. The kidney is to be laid on the table before the student, on its posterior surface, with its lower extremity towards the observer—that is to say, with the ureter behind and below the other vessels ; the hilum will then be directed to the side to which the kidney belongs. General Structure of the Kidney.—The kidney is surrounded by a distinct investment of fibrous* tissue, which forms a firm, smooth covering to the organ. It closely invests it, but 'can be easily stripped off, in doing which, however, numerous fine processes of connective tissue and small blood-vessels are torn through. Beneath this coat, a thin wide-meshed network of unstriped muscular fibre forms an incomplete covering to the organ. When the fibrous coat is stripped off, the surface of the kidney is found to be smooth and even, and of a deep red colour. In infants, fissures extending for some depth may be seen on the surface of the organ, a remnant of the lobular construction of the gland. The kidney is dense in texture, but is easily lacerable by me- chanical force. In order to obtain a know- ledge of the structure of the gland, a vertical section must be made from its convex to its concave border, and the loose tissue and fat removed from around the vessels and the excretory duct (fig. 585). It will be then seen that the kidney consists of a central cavity, surrounded at all parts, but one, by the proper kidney-substance. This central cavity is called the sinus, and is lined by a prolongation of the fibrous coat of the kidney, which enters through a longitudinal fissure, the hilum (before mentioned), which is situated at that part of the cavity which is not surrounded by kidney-structure. Through this fissure the blood-vessels of the kidney and its excretory duct pass, and therefore these structures, upon entering the kidney, are contained within the sinus. The excretory duct, or ureter, after entering, dilates into a wide, funnel-shaped sac, named the pelvis. This divides into two or three tubular divisions, which subdivide into several short, truncated branches, named calices or infiindibiila, all of which are contained in the central cavity of the kidney. The blood- vessels of the kidney, after passing through the hilum, are contained in the sinus or central cavity, lying between its lining membrane and the excretory apparatus, before entering the kidney-substance. This central cavity, as before mentioned, is surrounded on all sides, except at the hilum, by the substance of the kidney, which is at once seen to consist of two parts, viz. of an external, granular, investing part, which is called the cortical 3 s 2