MUSCLES AND FASCIA 11 -piG. 332.—Muscles of the back of the leg. Deep layer. //(HI two-thirds of the trian.^ular surface above the oblique line on the posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia, and into the tendinous expansion covering the surface of the muscle. The tendon of the muscle is covered by that of the Biceps and the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint; it grooves the outer border of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and is invested by the synovial membrane of the knee- joint. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the fascia above mentioned, which separates it from the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, popliteal vessels, and internal popliteal nerve. By its deep surface, with the superior tibio-fibular articulation, and back of the tibia. The Flexor longus hallucis is situated on the fibular side of the leg, and is the most superficial and largest of the three next muscles. It arises from the lower two-thirds of the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula, with the exception of an inch at its lowest part; from the lower part of the interosseous membrane ; from an intermuscular septum between it and the Peronei, externally; and from the fascia covering the Tibialis posticus, which is attached to the inner border of the fibula externally, and to the posterior sur- face of the tibia, between the origins of the Tibialis posticus and the Flexor longus digitorum, internally. The fibres pass obliquely downw^ards and backwards, and terminate round a tendon which occupies nearly the whole length of the posterior surface of the muscle. This tendon passes through a groove on the posterior surface of the tibia; it then passes through another groove on the posterior surface of the astragalus, and along a third groove, beneath the sustenta- culum tali of the os calcis, into the sole of the foot, where it runs forwards between the two heads of the Flexor brevis hallucis, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. The grooves in the astragalus and os calcis, which contain the tendon of the muscle, are converted by tendinous fibres into distinct canals, lined by synovial membrane ; and as the tendon crosses the sole of the foot, it is connected to the common flexor by a tendinous slip. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Soleus and tendo Achillis, from which it is separated by the deep transverse fascia. By its deeiJ surface, with the fibula. Tibialis posticus, the peroneal vessels, the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and the ankle-joint. By its outer border, with the Peronei. By 1: