553 BRANCHES OF INTERNAL CAROTID callosum, the convolution of the corpus callosum, the inner surface of the first frontal convolution, and the upper part of the ascending frontal convolution. The posterior and internal frontal branches supply the lobus quadratus. The anterior communicating artery is a short branch, about two lines in length, but of moderate size, connecting together the two anterior cerebral arteries across the longitudinal fissure. Sometimes this vessel is wanting, the two arteries joining together to form a single trunk, which afterwards divides. Or the vessel may be wholly, or partially, divided into two ; frequently, it is longer and smaller than usual. It gives off some of the antero-median ganglionic group of vessels, which are, however, principally derived from the anterior cerebral. The middle cerebral artery (fig. 356), the largest branch of the internal carotid, passes obliquely outwards along the fissure of Sylvius, and, opposite the island of Reil, divides into its terminal branches. The branches of the middle cerebral artery are :— Antero-lateral Ganglionic. Ascending Frontal. External and Inferior Frontal. Ascending Parietal. Parieto-sphenoidal. Fig. 356.—The distribution of the middle cerebral artery. (After Charcot.) The antero-lateral ganglionic branches are a group of small arteries which arise at the commencement of the middle cerebral artery; they pierce the anterior perforated space and supply the greater part of the caudate nucleus, the lenticular nucleus, the internal capsule, and a part of the optic thalamus. One artery of this group, distributed to the lenticular nucleus, is of larger size than the rest, and is of special importance, as being the artery in the brain most frequently ruptured; it has been termed by Charcot, the ' artery of cerebral h(^morrhage.' The external and inferior frontal supplies the third or inferior frontal convolution (Broca's convolution). The ascending frontal supplies the ascending frontal convolution. The ascending 'parietal supplies the ascending parietal convolution. The parieto-sphenoidal supplies the superior temporo-sphenoidal convolution and the angular gyrus. The posterior communicating artery arises from the back part of the internal carotid, runs directly backwards, and anastomoses with the posterior cerebral, a branch of the basilar. This artery varies considerably in size, being sometimes small, and occasionally so large that the posterior cerebral may be considered as