843 THE EE TINA spot is the point of entrance of the optic nerve {ijoriis oioticus); here the nervous substance is shghtly raised so as to form an eminence [colliculus nervi optici) ; the arteria centraHs retinae pierces its centre. This is the only part of the surface of the retina from which the power of vision is absent. Structure.—The retina is an exceedingly complex structure, and, when exa- mined microscopically by means of sections made perpendicularly to its surface, is found to consist of ten layers, which are named from within outwards, as follows:— 1. Membrana limitans interna. 2. Fibrous layer, consisting of nerve-fibres. 3. Vesicular layer, consisting of nerve-cells. 4. Inner molecular, or granular, layer. 5. Inner nuclear layer. 6. Outer molecular, or granular, layer. 7. Outer nuclear layer. 8. Membrana limitans externa. 9. Layer of rods and cones (Jacob's membrane). 10. Pigmentary layer. I. The memhrmia limitans interna is the most internal layer of the retina, and is in contact with the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour. It is derived from the supporting framework of the retina, with which tissue it will be described. Fig. 492.—The arteria centralis retinse, yellow spot, etc., the anterior half of the eyeball being removed. (Enlarged.) 2. The fibrous layer is made up of nerve-fibres, the direct continuation of the fibres of the optic nerve. This nerve therefore passes through all the other layers of the retina, except the one previously mentioned, to reach its destination in the fibrous layer. As the nerve passes through the lamina cribrosa of the sclerotic coat, the fibres of which it is composed lay aside their medullary sheaths and are continued onwards, through the choroid and retina, as simple axis-cylinders. When these non-medullated fibres reach the internal surface of the retina, they radiate from their point of entrance over the surface of the retina, grouped in bundles, and in many places, according to Michel, arranged m plexuses. The layer is thickest at the optic nerve entrance, and gradually diminishes in thickness towards the or a serrata. 3. The vesicular layer consists of a single layer of large ganglion-cells ; except in the macula lutea, where there are several layers. The cells are somewhat flask- shaped ; their rounded internal margin resting on the preceding layer and sending- off a single process, which is prolonged into the fibrous layer, and is believed to be