OF THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWEE EXTEEMITY upwards by the Rectus in front, and the Biceps, Semimembranosus, and Semitendinosus behind ; and, at the same time, everted ; and the upper end thrown outwards and the lower inwards by the Pectineus and Adductor muscles. This fracture may be reduced in two different methods: either by direct relaxation of all the opposing muscles, to effect which Fig. 339.—Fracture of the femur below the trochanters. Fig. 340.—Fracture of the femur above the condyles. Fig 341.—Fracture of the patella. Seini- incDihranosus Seiiii- tendinosus the limb should be Fig. 342.—Oblique fracture of the placed on a double in- shaft of the tibia, clined plane; or by overcoming the con- traction of the muscles, by continued extension, which may be effected by means of the long splint. Oblique fracture of the femiu- immediately above the condyles (fig. 340) is a formidable injury, and attended with considerable dis- placement. On examination of the limb, the lower fragment may be felt deep in the popliteal space, being drawn backwards by the Gastrocnemius and Plantaris muscles; and upwards by the posterior femoral and Rectus muscles. The pointed end of the upper fragment is drawn inwards by the Pec- tineus and Adductor muscles, and tilted forwards by the Psoas and Iliacus, piercing the Rectus muscle, and occasionally the integument. Relaxation of these muscles, and direct approximation of the broken fragments are effected by placing the limb on a double inclined plane. The greatest care is re- quisite in keeping the pointed extremity of the upper fragment in proper position; otherwise, after union of the fracture, the power of extension of the limb is partially destroyed, from the Rectus muscle being held down by the fractured end of the bone, and from the patella, when elevated, being drawn up- wards against the projecting fragment. In fracture of the ^patella (fig. 341) the fragments are separated by the effusion which takes place into the joint, and possibly by the action of the Quadri- ceps extensor; - the extent of separation of the two fragments depending upon the degree of laceration of the ligamentous structures around the bone. In oblique fracture of the shaft of the tibia (fig. 342), if the fracture has taken place obliquely from above, downwards and forwards, the fragments ride over one another, the