STEUGTUEE OF THE BLADDEE lOI 1 summit of the bladder to the nmbihcus. It covers the urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries. Structure.—The bladder is composed of four coats—serous, muscular, sub- mucous, and mucous. The serous coat is partial, and derived from the peritoneum. It invests the posterior surface, from opposite the termination of the two ureters to its summit, and is reflected from this point and from the sides, on to the abdominal and pelvic walls. The muscular coat consists of three layers of unstriped muscular fibre : an external layer, composed of fibres having for the most part a longitudinal arrange- ment ; a middle layer, in which the fibres are arranged, more or less, in a circular manner; and an internal layer, in which the fibres have a general longitudinal arrangement. The fibres of the external longitudinal layer arise from the posterior surface of the body of the os pubis in both sexes (musculi 'puho-vesicalis), and in the male from the adjacent part of the prostate gland and its capsule. They pass, in a more or less longitudinal manner, up the anterior surface of the bladder, over its apex, and then descend along its posterior surface to its base, where they become attached to the prostate in the male, and to the front of the vagina in the female. At the sides of the bladder the fibres are arranged obliquely and intersect one another. This layer has been named the detrusor urince muscle. The middle circular layers are very thinly and irregularly scattered on the body of the organ, and though to some extent placed transversely to the long axis of the bladder, are for the most part arranged obliquely. Towards the lower part of the bladder, round the cervix and commencement of the urethra, they are disposed in a thick circular layer,, forming the syliincter vesicce, which is continuous with the muscular fibres of the prostate gland. The internal longitudinal layer is thin, and its fasciculi have a reticular arrangement, but with a tendency to assume for the most part a longitudinal direction. Two bands of oblique fibres, originating behind the orifices of the ureters, converge to the back part of the prostate gland, and are inserted, by means of a fibrous process, into the middle lobe of that organ. They are the muscles of the ureters, described by Sir C. Bell, who supposed that during the contraction of the bladder they served to retain the oblique direction of the ureters, and so prevent the reflux of the urine into them. The submucous coat consists of a layer of areolar tissue, connecting together the muscular and mucous coats, and intimately united to the latter. The mucous coat is thin, smooth, and of a pale rose colour. It is continuous through the ureters with the lining membrane of the uriniferous tubes, and below with that of the urethra. It is connected loosely to the muscular coat by a layer of areolar tissue, excepting at the trigone, where its adhesion is more close. It is provided with a few mucous follicles; and numerous small racemose glands, lined with columnar epithelium, exist near the neck of the organ. The epithelium covering it is of the transitional variety, consisting of a superficial layer of poly- hedral, flattened cells, each with one, two, or three nuclei ; beneath these, a stratum of large club-shaped cells, with the narrow extremity directed downwards and wedged in between smaller spindle-shaped cells, containing an oval nucleus (figs. 602, 603). Objects seen o?i the inner surface.—-Upon the inner surface of the bladder are seen the orifices of the ureters, the trigone, and the commencement of the urethra. The orifices of the ureters.—These are situated at the base of the trigone, being- distant from each other by about two inches ; they are about an inch and a half from the base of the prostate and the commencement of the urethra. The trigonum vesicce, or trigo7ie vesical, is a triangular smooth surface with the apex directed forwards, situated at the base of the bladder immediately behind the urethral orifice. It is paler in colour than the rest of the mucous membrane, and 3 T 2