374 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE a delicate synovial membrane, and enclosed in a thin fibrous investment. The tendon is reflected backwards, outwards, and downwards beneath the Superior rectus to the outer part of the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat, midway between the cornea and entrance of the optic nerve, the insertion of the muscle lying between the Superior and External recti. Relations.—By its uiyper surface, with the periosteum covering the roof of the orbit, and the fourth nerve. The tendon, where it lies on the globe of the eye, is covered by the Superior rectus. By its under surface, with the nasal nerve, and the upper border of the Internal rectus. The Inferior oblique is a thin, narrow muscle, placed near the anterior margin of the orbit. It arises from a depression on the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone, external to the lachrymal groove for the nasal duct. Passing out- wards, backwards, and upwards beneath the Inferior rectus, and then between the eyeball and the External rectus, it is inserted into the outer part of the sclerotic coat between the Superior and External recti, near to, but somewhat behind, the tendon of insertion of the Superior oblique. Relations.—By its ocular surface, with the globe of the eye, and with the Inferior rectus. By its orbital surface, with the periosteum covering the floor of the orbit, and with the External rectus. Its borders look forwards and backwards ; the posterior one receives a branch of the third nerve. Iferves.—The Levator palpebrae. Inferior oblique, and all the Eecti excepting the External, are supplied by the third nerve ; the Superior oblique, by the fourth ; the External rectus, by the sixth. Actions.—The Levator palpebr^e raises the upper eyelid, and is the direct antagonist of the Orbicularis palpebrarum. The four Eecti muscles are attached in such a manner to the globe of the eye, that, acting singly, they will turn it either upwards, downwards, inwards, or outwards, as expressed by their names. The movement produced by the Superior or Inferior rectus is not quite a simple one, for inasmuch as they pass obliquely outwards and forwards to the eyeball, the elevation or depression of the cornea must be accompanied by a certain deviation inwards, with a slight amount of rotation, which, however, is corrected by the Oblique muscles; the Inferior oblique correcting the deviation inwards of the Superior rectus, and the Superior oblique that of the Inferior rectus. The con- traction of the External and Internal recti, on the other hand, produces a purely horizontal movement. If any two contiguous recti of one eye act together they carry the globe of the eye in the diagonal of these directions, viz. upwards and inwards, upwards and outwards, downwards and inwards, or downwards and out- wards. The movement of circumduction, as in looking round a room, is performed by the alternate action of the four Recti. The Oblique muscles rotate the eyeball on its antero-posterior axis, this kind of movement being required for the correct viewing of an object when the head is moved laterally, as from shoulder to shoulder, in order that the picture may fall in all respects on the same part of the retina of each eye.* Surgical Anatomy.—The position and exact point of insertion of the tendons of the Internal and External recti miiscles into the globe should be carefully examined from the front of the eyeball, as the surgeon is often required to divide the one or the other muscle for the cure of strabismus. In convergent strabismus, which is the more common form of the disease, the eye is turned inwards, requiring the division of the Internal rectus. In the divergent form, which is more rare, the eye is turned outwards, the External rectus being especially hnplicated. The deformity produced in either case is to be remedied by division of one or the other muscle. The operation is thus performed : the lids are to be well separated; the eyeball being rotated outwards or inwards, the conjunctiva should be raised by a pair of forceps, and divided immediately beneath the lower border of the tendon of the muscle to be divided, a little behind its insertion into the sclerotic; the submucous * ' On the Obhque Muscles of the Eye in Man and Vertebrate Animals,' by John Struthers, M.D., in Anatomical and Physiological Observations. For a fuller account of the various co-ordinated actions of the muscles of a single eye and of both eyes than our space allows, the reader may be referred to Dr. M. Foster's Text-booh of Physiology.