SPHENOID BONE 153 near to the spine of the sphenoid, is a short canal, sometimes double, the foramen spinosum; it transmits the middle meningeal artery. The external surface (fig. 144) is convex, and divided by a transverse ridge, the pterygoid ridge* into two portions. The superior or larger, convex from above downwards, concave from before backAvards, enters into the formation of the temporal fossa, and gives attachment to part of the Temporal muscle. The inferior portion, smaller in size and concave, enters into the formation of the zygomatic fossa, and affords attach- ment to the External pterygoid muscle. It presents, at its posterior part, a sharp- pointed eminence of bone, the spinous process, to which are connected the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw and the Tensor palati muscle. The pterygoid ridge, dividing the temporal and zygomatic portions, gives attachment to part of the External pterygoid muscle. At its inner and anterior extremity is a triangular spine of bone, which serves to increase the extent of origin of this muscle. The anterior or orbital surface, smooth, and quadrilateral in form, assists in forming the outer wall of the orbit. It is bounded above by a serrated edge, for articulation wdth the frontal bone ; below, by a rounded border, which enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure. Internally, it presents a sharp border, which forms the low^er boundary of the sphenoidal fissure, and has projecting from about its centre a little tubercle of bone, which gives origin to one head of the External rectus muscle of the eye ; and at its upper part is a notch for the trans- mission of a branch of the lachrymal artery: externally, it presents a serrated margin for articulation wdth the malar bone. One or two small foramina may occasionally be seen for the passage of branches of the deep temporal arteries; they are called the external orbital foramina. Circumference of the great loing (fig. 143): commencing from behind, from the body of the sphenoid to the spine, the outer half of this margin is serrated, for articulation with the petrous portion of the temporal bone; whilst the inner half forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum medium, and presents the posterior aperture of the Vidian canal for the passage of the Vidian nerve and artery. In front of the spine the circum- ference of the great wing presents a serrated edge, bevelled at the expense of the inner table below, and of the external above, which articulates with the squamous XDortion of the temporal bone. At the tip of the great wing a triangular portion is seen, bevelled at the expense of the internal surface, for articulation with the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. Internal to this is a broad, serrated surface, for articulation with the frontal bone : this surface is continuous internally with the sharp inner edge of the orbital plate, which assists in the formation of the sphenoidal fissure, and externally with the serrated margin for articulation with the malar bone. The Lesser Wings {processes of Ingrassias) are two thin, triangular plates of bone, which arise from the upper and lateral parts of the body of the sphenoid, and, projecting transversely outwards, terminate in a sharp point (fig. 143)- The superior surface of each is smooth, flat, broader internally than externally, and supports part of the frontal lobe of the brain. The inferior surface forms the back part of the roof of the orbit, and the upper boundary of the sphenoidal fissure or foramen lacerum anterius. This fissure is of a triangular form, and leads from the cavity of the cranium into the orbit; it is bounded internally by the body of the sphenoid—above, by the lesser wing ; below, by the internal margin of the orbital surface of the great wing—and is converted into a foramen by the articula- tion of this bone with the frontal. It transmits the third, the fourth, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, the sixth nerve, some filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, the orbital branch of the middle meningeal artery, a recurrent branch from the lachrymal artery to the dura mater, and the ophthalmic vein. The anterior border of the lesser wing is serrated for articulation with the frontal bone ; the posterior, smooth and rounded, is received into the fissure of Sylvius of the brain. The inner extremity of this border forms * Sometimes caUed infra-temporal crest.