AETICULATIONS 35° joint, so that the action of the muscle produces velocity at the expense of force in the commencement of extension, and, on the contrary, at the close of extension tends to diminish velocity, and therefore the shock to the ligaments; whilst in the standing position it draws the tihia powerfully forwards, and thus maintains it in its place. Extension of the leg on the thigh is performed by the Quadriceps extensor. Flexion by the hamstring muscles, assisted by the Gracilis and Sartorius, and, indirectly, by the Gastrocnemius, Popliteus, and Plantaris. Botation outtvards by the Biceps, and rotation imvards by the Popliteus, Semitendinosus, and, to a slight extent, the Semimembranosus, the Sartorius, and the Gracilis. Surface Form.—The interval between the two bones entering into the formation of the knee-joint can always easily be felt. If the limb is extended, it is situated on a slightly higher level than the apex of the patella ; but if the limb is slightly flexed, a knife carried horizontally backwards immediately below the apex of the patella v/ould pass directly into the joint. When the knee-joint is distended with fluid, the outline of the synovial membrane at the front of the knee may be fairly well mapped out. Surgical Anatomy.—From a consideration of the construction of the knee-joint, it would at first sight appear to be one of the least secure of any of the joints in the body. It is formed between the two longest bones, and therefore the amount of leverage which can be brought to bear upon it is very considerable ; the articular surfaces are but ill-adapted to each other, and the range and variety of motion which it enjoys is great. All these cir- cumstances tend to render the articulation very insecure ; but, nevertheless, on account of the very powerful ligaments which bind the bones together, the joint is one of the strongest in the body, and dislocation from traumatism is of very rare occurrence. When, on the other hand, the ligaments have been softened or destroyed by disease, partial displacement is very liable to occur, and is frequently brought about by the mere action of the muscles displacing the articular surfaces from each other. The tibia may be dislocated in any direction from the femur—forwards, backwards, inwards, or outwards ; or a combination of two of these dislocations may occur—that is, the tibia may be dislocated forwards and laterally', or backwards and laterally; and any of these dislocations may be complete or incomplete. As a rule, however, the antero-posterior dislocations are complete, the lateral ones incomplete. One or other of the semilunar cartilages may become displaced and nipped between the femur and tibia. The accident is produced by a twist of the leg when the knee is flexed, and is accompanied by a sudden pain and fixation of the knee in a flexed position. The cartilage may be displaced either inwards or outwards : that is to say, either inwards towards the tibial spine, so that the cartilage becomes lodged in the intercondyloid notch; or outwards, so that the cartilage projects beyond the margin of the two articulating bones. Acute synovitis, the result of traumatism or exposure to cold, is very common in the knee, on account of its superficial position. When distended with fluid, the swelling shows itself above and at the sides of the patella, reaching about an inch or more above the trochlear surface of the femur, and extending a little higher under the Vastus internus than the Vastus externus. Occasionally the swelling may extend two inches or more. At the sides of the patella the swelling extends lower at the inner side than it does on the outer side. The lower level of the synovial membrane is just above the level of the upper part of the head of the fibula. In the middle line it covers the upper third of the ligamentum patellfe, being separated from it, however, hj the capsule and a little fat. Chronic synovitis principally shows itself in the form of pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane, leading to tubercular arthritis. The reasons why tubercular disease of the knee usually com- mences in the synovial membrane appear to be the complex and extensive nature of this sac ; the extensive vascular supply to it; and the fact that injuries are generally diffused and applied to the front of the joint rather than to the ends of the bones. Syphilitic disease not unfrequently attacks the knee-joint. In the hereditary form of the disease ii is usually synmietrical, attacking both joints, which become filled with synovial eflusion, and is very intractable and difficult of cure. In the tertiary form of the disease, gumma- tous infiltration of the synovial membrane may take place. The knee is one of the joints most commonly affected with osteo-arthritis, and is said to be more frequently the seat of this disease in women than in men. The occurrence of the so-called loose cartilage is almost confined to the knee, though they are occasionally met with in the elbow, and, rarely, in some other joints. Many of them occur in cases of osteo-arthritis, in which calcareous or cartilaginous material is formed in one of the synovial fringes and constitutes the foreign body, and may or may not become detached, in the former case only meriting the usual term, ' loose ' cartilage. In other cases they have their origin in the exudation of inflammatory lymph, and possibly, in some rare instances, a portion of the articular cartilage or one of the semihmar cartilages becomes detached and constitutes the foreign body. Genu valgum, or knock knee, is a common deformity of childhood, in which, owing to changes in and about the joint, the angle between the outer border of the tibia and femur