MUSCLES AND FASCIA The Serratus posticus inferior is situated at the junction of the dorsal and lumbar regions: it is of an irregularly quadrilateral form, broader than the preceding, and separated from it by a considerable interval. It arises by a thin aponeurosis from the spinous processes of the last two dorsal and two or three upper lumbar vertebrae, and from the supraspinous ligaments. Passing obliquely upwards and outwards, it becomes fleshy, and divides into four flat digitations, which are inserted into the lower borders of the four lower ribs, a little beyond their angles. The thin aponeurosis of origin is intimately blended with the tendon of origin of the Latissimus dorsi muscle and with the lumbar fascia. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Latissimus dorsi, with the aponeurosis of w^hich its own aponeurotic origin is inseparably blended. By its deep surface, with the lumbar fascia, the Erector spinse, ribs, and Intercostal muscles. Its upper margin is continuous with the vertebral aponeurosis. The Vertebral aponeurosis is a thin, fibrous lamina, extending along the whole length of the back part of the thoracic region, serving to bind down the long extensor muscles of the back which support the spine and head, and separate them from those muscles which connect the spine to the upper extremity. It con- sists of longitudinal and transverse fibres blended together, forming a thin lamella, which is attached in the median line to the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae ; externally, to the angles of the ribs ; and below, to the upper border of the Serratus posticus inferior and tendon of origin of the Latissimus dorsi; above, it passes beneath the Serratus posticus superior and the Splenius, and blends with the deep fascia of the neck. The Lumbar fascia {fig. 288) is a thick and strong lamella occupying the interval between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. It is attached internally to the spinous processes of the lumbar and sacral vertebrae ; above, to the last rib, and to the cartilage of the eleventh rib ; below, to the posterior third of the crest of the ilium. Externally, it blends with the Transversalis abdominis muscle. The posterior or superficial surface of this fascia gives attachment to part of the origin of the Latissimus dorsi, to the Serratus posticus inferior, and to the Internal oblique muscle of the abdomen. The anterior or deep surface gives off two layers : one lies between the Erector spinae and Quadratus lumborum, and is attached to the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae ; the other lies on the anterior or internal surface of the Quadratus lumborum, and is attached to the front part of the same transverse processes. The upper portion of this layer, which extends from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the apex and lower border of the last rib, constitutes the ligamentum arcuatum externum. Therefore these three layers of the lumbar fascia form two spaces : between the posterior and middle layer is situated the Erector spinae and the Multifidus spinas; between the middle and anterior layers is situated the Quadratus lumborum. Now detach the Serratus posticus suj)erior from its origin, and turn it outwards, when the Splenius muscle will be brought into view. The Splenius is situated at the back of the neck and upper part of the dorsal region. At its origin, it is a single muscle, narrow, and pointed in form; but it soon becomes broader, and divides into two portions, which have separate inser- tions. It arises, by tendinous fibres, from the lower half of the ligamentum nuch^e, from the spinous processes of the last cervical and of the six upper dorsal vertebrae, and from the supraspinous ligament. From this origin, the fleshy fibres proceed obliquely upwards and outwards, forming a broad flat muscle, which divides as it ascends into two portions, the Splenius capitis and Splenius colli. The Splenius capitis is inserted into the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and into the rough surface on the occipital bone just beneath the superior curved line. The Splenius colli is inserted, by tendinous fasciculi, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the two or three upper cervical vertebras.