MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 500 individual muscles in each region; at the same time a broad transverse inter- muscular septum, called the dee;p transverse fascia of the leg, intervenes between the superficial and deep muscles in the posterior tibio-fibular region. Now remove the fascia by dividing it in the same direction as the integument, excepting opposite the ankle, where it should be left entire. Commence the removal of the fascia from below, opposite the tendons, and detach it in the line of direction of the muscular fibres. Muscles of the Leg These may be subdivided into three groups: those on the anterior, those on the posterior, and those on the outer side. Anterior Tibio-fibular Region Tibialis anticus. Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor proprius hallucis. Peroneus tertius. The Tibialis anticus is situated on the outer side of the tibia; it is thick and fleshy at its upper part, tendinous below. It arises from the outer tuberosity and upper two-thirds of the external surface of the shaft of the tibia; from the adjoining part of the interosseous membrane; from the deep surface of the fascia ; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Extensor longus digitorum : the fibres pass vertically downwards, and terminate in a tendon, which is apparent on the anterior surface of the muscle at the lower third of the leg. After passing through the innermost compartment of the anterior annular ligament, it is inserted into the inner and under surface of the internal cuneiform bone, and base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the fascia, and with the annular liga- ment. By its i^osterior surface, with the interosseous membrane, tibia, ankle-joint, and inner side of the tarsus : this surface also overlaps the anterior tibial vessels and nerve in the upper part of the leg. By its inner surface, with the tibia. By its outer surface, with the Extensor longus digitorum, and Extensor proprius hallucis, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. The Extensor proprius hallucis is a thin, elongated, and flattened muscle, situated between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum. It arises from the anterior surface of the fibula for about the middle two-fourths of its extent, its origin being internal to that of the Extensor longus digitorum; it also arises from the interosseous membrane to a similar extent. The fibres pass down- wards, and terminate in a tendon, which occupies the anterior border of the muscle, passes through a distinct compartment in the horizontal portion of the annular ligament, crosses the anterior tibial vessels near the bend of the ankle, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Opposite the metatarso- phalangeal articulation, the tendon gives off a thin prolongation on each side, which covers the surface of the joint. It usually sends an expansion, from the inner side of the tendon, to be inserted into the base of the first phalanx. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the fascia, and the anterior anitular ligament. By its posterior surface, with the interosseous membrane, fibula, tibia, ankle-joint, and Extensor brevis digitorum. By its oiUer side, with the Extensor longus digitorum above, the dorsalis pedis vessels and anterior tibial nerve below. By its inner side, with the Tibialis anticus and the anterior tibial vessels above. The Extensor longus digitorum is an elongated, flattened, semipenniform muscle, situated the most externally of all the muscles on the fore part of the leg. It arises from the outer tuberosity of the tibia; from the upper three-fourths of the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula ; from the interosseous membrane ; from the deep surface of the fascia; and from the intermuscular septa between it and the Tibialis anticus on the inner, and the Peronei on the outer side. The tendon enters a canal in the annular ligament, with the Peroneus tertius, and divides into four slips, which run across the dorsum of the foot, and are inserted into the second