THE UEIXAEY ORGANS I014 the canal as it lies in the prostate is horseshoe in shape, the convexity being directed upwards (fig. 605). Upon the floor of the canal is a narro"^ longitudinal ridge, the verumontaiium, or caput gaUinaginis, formed by an elevation of the mucous membrane and its subjacent tissue. It is eight or nine Lines in length, and a line and a half in height ; and contains, according to Kobelt, muscular and erectUe tissues. When distended, it may serve to prevent the passage of the semen backwards into the bladder. On each side of the verumontanum is a slightly depressed fossa, the prostatic sinus, the floor of which is perforated by numerous apertm-es, the orifices of the prostatic ducts : the ducts of the middle lobe opening behind the verumon- tanum. At the fore part of the verumontanum, in the middle line, is a depression, the sinus pocuJaris {lesicuJa prostatica); and upon or within its margins are the slit-like openings of the ejaculatory ducts. The sinus pocularis forms a cul-de-sac about a quarter of an inch in length, which runs upwards and backwards in the substance of the prostate beneath the middle lobe ; its prominent upper wall partly forms the verumontanum. Its waUs are composed of fibrous tissue, muscular fibres, and mucous membrane ; and numerous small glands open on its inner siu'face. It has been called by V\'eber, who discovered it, the uterus mcisculinus, from its being developed from the united ends of the rudimentary Miillei-ian ducts, and therefore homolcgous with the uterus in the female. The Membranotis portion of the ui'etkra extends between the apex of the prostate and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. It is the naiTOwest part of the canal (excepting the orifice), and measures three-quarters of an inch along its upper, and half an inch along its lower sui'face, in consequence of the bulb projecting backwards beneath it. Its upper concave sm'face is placed about an inch beneath the pubic arch, from which it is separated by the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis, and some muscular fibres. Its lower convex sm'face is separated from the rectmn by a triangular space, which constitutes the perin^eum. The membranous portion of the urethra perforates both the anterior and posterior layers of the deep peiineal fascia, and receives an investment from them. As it pierces the posterior layer, the fibres around the opening are prolonged backwards over the posterior part of the membranous portion of the m-ethra, and as it pierces the anterior layer a similar prolongation takes place in the opposite direction, investing the anterior part of the membranous portion. It is also surrounded by the Compressor lu'ethrte muscle. The Spongy portion is the longest pan of the m^ethra, and is contained in the corpus spongiostun. It is about six inches in length, and extends from the tennination of the membranous portion to the meatus urinarius. Commencing below the symphysis pubis, it ascends for a short distance, and then curves down- wards. It is narrow, and of uniform size in the body of the penis, measuring about a quarter of an inch in diameter; being dilated behind, within the bulb ; a'^d f _ _:eriorly within the glans j)enis, where it forms the fossa navicular is. Ti- - - -us portion is a nam'e given, in some descriptions of the urethra, to the posterior part of the spongy portion contained within the bulb. The meatus urinarius is the most contracted part of the urethra ; it is a vertical slit, about three hues in length, bounded on each side by two small labia. The inner sm-face of the lining membrane of the urethra, especially on the floor 01 the spong}- portion, presents the orifices of numerous mucous glands and f olhcles situated in the submucous tissue, and named the glands of Littre. They vary in size, and then* orifices are directed forwards, so that they may easily intercei)t the point of a catheter in its passage along the canal. One of these lacuns, larger than the rest, is situated on the upper sm-face of the fossa naviculaids, about an inch and a haK from the orifice ; it is called the lacuna magna. Into the bulbous portion are found opening the ducts of Cowper's glands. StrnctTire.—The urethra is composed of a continuous mucous membrane, sup]ooil:ed by a submucous tissue which connects it with the various structures through which it passes.