THE SKELETON 142 notch OY foramen. It transmits the supra-orbital artery, vein, and nerve. A small aperture is seen in the upper part of the notch, which transmits a vein from the diploe to join the supra-orbital vein. The supra-orbital arch terminates externally in the external angular process, and internally in the internal angular ijrocess. The external angular process is strong, prominent, and articulates with the malar bone ; running upwards and backwards from it are two well-marked lines, which, commencing together from the external angular process, soon diverge from each other and run in a curved direction across the bone. The lower one, the temporal ridge, gives attachment to the Temporal muscle, the upper one to the temporal fascia. Beneath them is a slight concavity, that forms the anterior part of the temporal fossa, and gives origin to the Temporal muscle. The internal angular processes are less marked than the external, and articulate with the lachrymal bones. Between the internal angular processes is a rough, uneven interval, the Fig. 136.—Frontal bone. Inner surface. nasal notch, which articulates in the middle line with the nasal bone, and on either side with the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. From the concavity of this notch projects a process, the nasal process, w^hich extends beneath the nasal bones and nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones, and supports the bridge of the nose. On the under surface of this is a long pointed process, the nasal spiiie, and on either side a small grooved surface enters into the formation of the roof of the nasal fossa. The nasal spine forms part of the septum of the nose, articulating in front with the nasal bones and behind the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. Internal Surface (fig. 136).—Along the middle line is a vertical groove, the edges of which unite below to form a ridge, the fro7ital crest; the groove lodges the superior longitudinal sinus, whilst its margins afford attachment to the falx cerebri. The crest terminates below at a small notch which is converted into a foramen by articulation with the ethmoid. It is called the foramen ccecum, and