MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 392 Relations.—By its internal surface it is in contact with its fellow of the opposite side. By its external surface, with the Inferior lingualis, the Hyo-giossus, the lingual artery and hypoglossal nerve, the lingual nerve, and sublingual gland. By its upper border, with the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth (frsenum linguaB). By its loioer border, with the Genio-hyoid. The Hyo-glossus is a thin, flat, quadrilateral muscle, which arises from the side of the body, and whole length of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, and passes almost vertically upwards to enter the side of the tongue, between the Stylo-glossus and Lingualis. Those fibres of this muscle which arise from the body are directed upwards and backwards, overlapping those arising from the greater cornu, which are directed upwards and forwards. Relations.—By its external surface, with the Digastric, the Stylo-hyoid, Stylo- glossus, and Mylo-hyoid muscles, the submaxillary ganglion, the lingual and Fig. 278.—Muscles of the tongue. Left side. hypoglossal nerves, Wharton's duct, and the deep portion of the submaxillary gland. By its deep surface, with the Stylo-hyoid ligament, the Genio-hyo-giossus, Lingualis, and Middle constrictor, the lingual vessels, and the giosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Chondro-glossus is a distinct muscular slip, about three-quarters to an inch in length, which arises from the inner side and base of the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone and contiguous portion of the body of the bone, and passes directly upwards to blend Avith the intrinsic muscular fibres of the tongue, between the Hyo-glossus and Genio-hyo-giossus. A small slip of muscular fibre is occasionally found, arising from the cartilago triticea in the thyro-hyoid ligament, and passing upwards and forwards to enter the tongue with the hindermost fibres of the Hyo-glossus. The Stylo-glossns, the shortest and smallest of the three styloid muscles, arises from the anterior and outer side of the styloid process, near its apex, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, to which its fibres, in most cases, are attached by a thin