ORGANS OF DIGESTION 878 The second molar is a little smaller than the first. The crown has four cusps in the upper, and five in the lower jaw. The root has three fangs in the upper jaw, and two in the lower, the characters of which are similar to the preceding tooth. The third molar tooth is called the icisdom-tooth {dens sapientice), from its late appearance through the gum. It is smaller than the others, and its axis is directed inwards. The crown is small and rounded, and furnished with three tubercles. The root is generally single, short, conical, slightly curved, and grooved so as to present traces of a subdivision into three fangs in the upper, and two in the lower jaw. Temporary Teeth The temporary or milk teeth are smaller, but resemble in form those of the permanent set. The hinder of the two temporary molars is the largest of all the milk teeth, and is succeeded by the second permanent bicuspid. The first upper molar has only three cusps—two external, one internal; the second upper molar has four cusps. The first lower molar has four cusps ; the second lower molar Fig. 511.—The temporary, or milk teeth. External view. UPPER JAW Molars Canine Incisors Molars Canine Incisors has five. The fangs of the temporary molar teeth are smaller and more diverging than those of the permanent set, but in other respects bear a strong resemblance to them. Structure of the Teeth On making a vertical section of a tooth (fig. 512), a cavity will be found in the interior. This cavity is situated in the interior of the crown and the centre of each fang, and opens by a minute orifice at the extremity of the latter. The shape of the cavity corresponds somewhat with that of the tooth; it forms what is called the 2^uliJ-cavity, and contains a soft, highly vascular, and sensitive substance, the dental pulp. The pulp consists of a loose connective tissue and cells ; it is richly supplied with vessels and nerves, which enter the cavity through the small aperture at the point of each fang. The bells of the pulp are partly found permeating the connective tissue, and partly arranged as a layer on the wall of the pulp-cavity. These latter cells are of two kinds: some, columnar in shape, are named the odontoblasts of Waldejjer, and will be referred to hereafter ; others, fusiform in shape, are wedged in between the columnar cells, and have two fine processes, the outer or distal one passing into a dentine tubule ; the inner being