DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIVER The hind-gut is also a closed tube, and from it the middle third of the rectum is developed, as well as the allantois (page 8i), which will be again referred to in connection with the development of the bladder. The mid-gut is at first an open cavity freely communicating with the umbilical vesicle. As the body-walls grow, this communication contracts very materially, though it still exists to a certain extent, and the open cavity becomes converted into a straight tube, still open where it communicates with the umbilical vesicle. This tube grows rapidly in length, and presents a primitive curve or loop down- wards and forwards, and, in consequence of its growth exceeding that of the walls of the body-cavity, a portion of the loop protrudes into the stalk of the umbilical vesicle. At a subsequent period, however, the walls of the abdomen grow more rapidly than the intestine, which again recedes into the body-cavity. At a short distance below the most prominent point of this loop a diverticulum arises, which marks the separation between the large and small intestine. The lower part of this diverticulum forms the vermiform appendix ; the proximal part, by its continued growth, constitutes the caecum. After this the anterior or upper part of the gut, corresponding to the small intestine, rapidly increases in length, and about the eighth week becomes convoluted. The lower or posterior part, corresponding to the large intestine, is at first less in calibre than the upper part, and lies wholly to the left side of the convolutions of the small intestine; but later on the curve of the large intestine begins to form, and the first part (ascending colon) slowly crosses over to the right side, first lying in the middle line, just below the liver. It is not until the sixth month that the caecum descends into the right iliac fossa, and so drags the ascending colon into its normal position in the right flank. The peritoneal cavity is the space left between the visceral and parietal layers of the mesoblast, and the serous membrane is developed from these structures. The mesenteries are formed from mesoblastic tissue extending between the notochord and the gut which develops the vascular and connective-tissue elements of these parts. The buccal cavity is formed by an involution of the external layers of the blastodermic membrane, which passes inwards and meets the pharynx, or upper part of the fore-gut. The tAvo cavities are, however, at first completely separated from each other by all the layers of the blastoderm; but at an early period of development a vertical slit appears between them ; this gradually widens and becomes the opening by Avhich the common cavity of the nose and mouth commu- nicates with the pharynx. The common cavity is afterwards divided into nose and mouth by the development of the palate, in the manner spoken of above. The tongue appears about the fifth week as a small elevation behind the inferior maxillary arch, to which another projection from the second pharyngeal arch is united. The epithelial layer is furnished by the epiblast. The tonsils appear about the fourth month. The anus is also formed by an inflection of the epiblast, w^hich extends inwards to a slight extent, and approaches the termination of the hind-gut, and finally com- municates with it by a solution of continuity in the septum between the two. The persistence of the foetal septum at either the buccal or anal orifices constitutes a well-known deformity—imperforate oesophagus or imperforate rectum, as the case may be. The liver appears after the VV^olffian bodies, about the third week, in the form of a bifid mass of cells, connected with the epithelial and mesoblastic layers of the splanchnopleure. It projects from the intestine at that part which afterwards forms the duodenum. This mass of cells becomes hollowed out into a cavity, lined by hypoblast, the rudiment of the main duct of the liver, the cells on either side being developed into the right and left lobes. These grow very rapidly around the vitelline and, later, the umbilical veins, which break up into a capillary plexus and ramify in its substance. About the third month the liver .almost fills the abdominal cavity. From this period the relative development of the liver is less active, more especially that of the left lobe, which now becomes smaller than the