MUSCLES AND FASCIA 442 Structures between the two layers of the Triangular Ligament.—If the superficial layer of this fascia is detached on either side, the following structures Avill be seen between it and the deep layer : the subpubic ligament above, close to the pubes ; the dorsal vein of the penis ; the membranous portion of the urethra, and the Compressor m^ethr^e muscle ; Cowper's glands and their ducts ; the pudic vessels and nerve; the artery and nerve of the bulb, and a plexus of veins. The Compressor urethrae (Constrictor urethras) surrounds the whole length of the membranous portion of the urethra, and is contained between the two layers of the triangular ligament. It arises, by aponeurotic fibres, from the upper part of the ramus of the os pubis on each side, to the extent of half or three-quarters of an inch : each segment of the muscle passes inwards, and divides into two fasciculi, which surround the urethra from the prostate gland behind, to the bulbous portion of the urethra in front ; and unite, at the upper and lower surfaces of this tube, with the muscle of the opposite side, by means of a tendinous raphe. Actions.—The muscles of both sides act together as a sphincter, compressing the membranous portion of the urethra. During the transmission of fluids they, like the Acceleratores urinas, are relaxed, and only come into action at the end of the process to eject the last of the fluid. Muscles of the Pekin^um in the Female The Transversus perinsei in the female is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the back part of the perineal space. It arises by a small tendon from the inner and fore part of the tuberosity of the ischium, and, passing inwards, is inserted into the central line of the perin^eum, joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, the External sphincter ani behind, and the Sphincter vaginae in front. Nerve-supply.—The perineal branch of the internal pudic. Actions.—By their contraction they serve to fix the central tendinous point of the perinasum. The Sphincter vaginse surrounds the orifice of the vagina, and is analogous to the Accelerator urinae in the male. It is attached posteriorly to the central tendinous point of the perineeum, where it blends with the External sphincter ani. Its fibres pass forwards on each side of the vagina, to be inserted into the corpora cavernosa of the clitoris, a fasciculus crossing over the body of the organ so as to compress the dorsal vein. Nerve-supply.—The perineal branch of the internal pudic. Actions.—It diminishes the orifice of the vagina. The anterior fibres contribute to the erection of the clitoris, as they are inserted into and are continuous with the fascia of the clitoris; compressing the dorsal vein during the contraction of the muscle. The Erector clitoridis resembles the Erector penis in the male, but is smaller than it. It covers the unattached part of the crus clitoridis. It is an elongated muscle, broader at the middle than at either extremity, and situated on either side of the lateral boundary of the peringeum. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the crus clitoridis from the surface of the crus, and from the adjacent portion of the ramus of the ischium. From these points fleshy fibres succeed, which end in an aponeurosis, which is inserted into the sides and under surface of the crus clitoridis. Nerve-supply.—The perineal branch of the internal pudic. Actions.—It compresses the crus clitoridis and retards the return of blood through the veins, and thus serves to maintain the organ erect. The triangular ligament (deej) imineal fascia) in the female is not so strong as in the male. It is attached to the pubic arch, its apex being connected with the symphysis pubis. It is divided in the middle line by the aperture of the vagina, with the external coat of which it becomes blended, and in front of this is perforated