MUSCLES AND FASCLE 484 portion of the spine and pelvis forwards. They also serve to maintain the erect position, by supporting the spine and pelvis upon the femur, and assist in raising the trunk when the body is in the recumbent posture. The Psoas parvus is a tensor of the iliac fascia. Surgical Ana tomy.—In the iliac fascia there is no definite septum between the portions of fascia covering the Psoas and Iliacus respectively, and the fascia is only connected to the subjacent muscles by a quantity of loose connective tissue. When abscess forms beneath this fascia, as it is very apt to do, the matter is contained in an osseo-fibrous cavity which is closed on all sides within the abdomen, and is open only at its lower part, where the fascia is prolonged over the muscle into the thigh. Abscess Avithin the sheath of the Psoas muscle [Psoas abscess) is generally due to tubercular caries of the bodies of the lower dorsal and hmibar vertebrae. When the disease is in the dorsal region, the matter tracts down the posterior mediastinum, in front of the bodies of the vertebrae, and, passing beneath the ligamentum arcuatum internum, enters the sheath of the Psoas muscle, down which it passes as far as the pelvic brim ; it then gets beneath the iliac portion of the fascia, and fills up the iliac fossa. In consequence of the attachment of the fascia to the pelvic brim, it rarely finds its way into the pelvis, but passes by a narrow opening under Poupart's ligament into the thigh, to the outer side of the femoral vessels. It thus follows that a Psoas abscess may be described as consisting of four parts : (1) a somewhat narrow channel at its upper part, in the Psoas sheath ; (2) a dilated sac in the iliac fossa; (3) a constricted neck luider Poupart's ligament ; and (4) a dilated sac in the upper part of the thigh. When the lumbar vertebrae are the seat of the disease, the matter finds its way directly into the substance of the muscle. The muscular fibres are destroyed, and the nervous cords contained in the abscess are isolated and exposed in its interior ; the femoral vessels which lie in front of the fascia remain intact, and the peritoneum seldom becomes implicated. All Psoas abscesses do not, however, pursue this course : the matter may leave the muscle above the crest of the ilium, and tracking back- wards may point in the loin {lumbar abscess); or it may point above Poupart's ligament in the inguinal region ; or it may follow the course of the iliac vessels into the pelvis, and, passing through the great sacro-sciatic notch, discharge itself on the back of the thigh ; or it may open into the bladder, or find its way into the perinaeum. Dissection.—To expose the muscles and fasciae in this region, make an incision along Poupart's ligament, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the os pubis ; a vertical incision from the centre of this, along the middle of the thigh to below the knee- joint ; and a transverse incision from the inner to the outer side of the leg, at the lower end of the vertical incision. The flaps of integument having been removed, the superficial and deep fasciae should be examined. The more advanced student should commence the study of this region by an examination of the anatomy of femoral hernia, and Scarpa's triangle, the incisions for the dissection of which are marked out in the opposite figure. The superficial fascia forms a continuous layer over the whole of the thigh, consisting of areolar tissue, containing in its meshes much fat, and capable of being separated into two or more layers, between which are found the superficial vessels and nerves. It varies in thickness in different parts of the limb; in the groin it is thick, and the two layers are separated from one another by the super- ficial inguinal lymphatic glands, the internal saphenous vein, and several smaller vessels. One of these two layers, the superficial, is continuous above with the superficial fascia of the abdomen. The deep layer of the superficial fascia is a very thin, fibrous layer, best marked on the inner side of the long saphenous vein and below Poupart's ligament. It is placed beneath the subcutaneous vessels and nerves and upon the surface of the fascia lata. It is intimately adherent to the fascia lata a little below Poupart's ligament. It covers the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, being closely united to its circumference, and is connected to the sheath of the femoral vessels, corresponding to its under surface. The portion of fascia covering this aperture is perforated by the internal saphenous vein and by Anterior Femoral Eegion Tensor vaginae femoris. Sartorius. Eectus. Vastus externus. Vastus internus. Crureus. Subcrureus. Fascia of the Thigh