33 MUSCULAR TISSUE controlled by the will. They are composed of bundles of fibres enclosed in a delicate web called the ' internal perimysium,' in contradistinction to the sheath of areolar tissue which invests the entire muscle, the ' external perimysium.' The bundles are termed ' fasciculi'; they are prismatic in shape, of different sizes in different muscles, and for the most part placed parallel to one another, though they have a tendency to converge towards their tendinous attachments. Each fasciculus is made up of a bundle oi fihres, which also run parallel with each other, and which are separated from one another by a delicate connective tissue derived from the peri- 37-— Transverse section T , T 7 • /p N from the sterno-mastoid m mysmm, and termed endomysium (fig. 37). Magnified 50 times. A muscular fibre may be said to consist of a ^ soft contractile substance enclosed in a tubular sheath, named by Bowman the sarcolemma. The fibres are cylindrical or prismatic in shape, and are of no great length, not extending, it is said, further than an inch and a half. They end either by blending with the tendon or aponeurosis, or else by becoming drawn out into a tapering ex- tremity which is connected to the neighbouring fibre by means of the sarcolemma. Their breadth varies in man from i^^^ to -q^q of an inch, the average of the majority being about ^-J-q. As a \f7^S^O^' " \ rule, the fibres do not divide or anastomose ; but Vi/rrTr- ^ occasionally, especially in the tongue and facial «■ TS^^^S^.'-^fSt^- muscles, the fibres may be seen to divide into several branches. The precise mode in which the muscular fibre joins the tendon has been variously described by different observers. It may, perhaps, be sufficient to say that the sarcolemma, or membranous investment of the muscular. fibre, appears to become blended with the tissue of the tendon, and prolonged more or less into the tendon, so that the latter forms a kind of sheath around the fibre for a longer or shorter distance. When muscular fibres are attached to the skin or mucous membranes, their fibres are described by Hyde Salter as becoming continuous with those of the areolar tissue. The sarcolemma, or tubular sheath of the fibre, is a transparent, elastic, and apparently homogeneous membrane of considerable toughness, so that it will some- times remain entire when the included substance is ruptured (see fig. 38). On the internal surface of the sarcolemma in mammalia, and also in the substance of the fibre in the lower animals, elongated nuclei are seen (fig. 55), and in connec- tion with these a row of granules, apparently fatty, is sometimes observed. Upon examination of a muscular fibre by transmitted light under a sufficiently high power, it is found to be apparently marked by alternate light and dark bands or striffi, which pass transversely, or somewhat obliquely, round the fibre (fig. 38). The dark and light bands are of nearly equal breadth, and alternate with great regularity. They vary in breadth from about the ysVo" the ttV0^ inch. Other striae pass longitudinally over the fibres, though they are less distinct than the former. This longitudinal striation gives the fibre the appearance of being- made up of a bundle of fibrillse. The muscular fibre can be broken up either in a longitudinal or transverse direction (fig. 39). If hardened in alcohol, it can be broken up longitudinally, and forms the so-called fibrillge of which some suppose the fibre to be made up. Each fibril is marked by transverse striae, and appears to consist of a single row of minute quadrangular particles, named ' sarcous elements' by Bowman. A still further division, however, is capable of being made, and each of these fibrillaB may be divided into minute threads (fig. 40, B, d). consisting of an alternate dark and light spot. After exposure to the action of dilute hydrochloric acid, the muscular fibre can be broken transversely (fig. 39, B). It then forms discs or plates, consisting of the same quadrangular particles, attached by their lateral surfaces. D