58o AETERIES lladial recurrent bones and the Interossei muscles, being covered by the Adductor obhquus polhcis, the flexor tendons of the fingers, the Lumbricales, the Opponens and Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Alongside of Fig. 364.—The surgical anatomy of the radial and it jg the deep branch of the ulnar arteries. ^j^^^. ^^^^^^ ^^^^ running in the opposite direction, that is to say, from within outwards. Peculiarities.—The origin of the radial artery, according to Quain, is, in nearly one case in eight, higher than usual; more frequently arising from the axil- lary or upper part of the brachial, than from the lower part of this vessel. The variations in the position of this vessel in the arm, and at the bend of the elbow, have been already mentioned. In the forearm it deviates less frequently from its position than the ulnar. It has been found lying over the fascia instead of heneath it. It has also been observed on the surface of the Supinator longus, instead of along its inner border ; and in turning round the wrist, it has been seen lying over, instead of beneath, the extensor tendons. Surface MarMng.—The posi- tion of the radial artery in the forearm is represented by a line drawn from the outer border of the tendon of the Biceps in the centre of the hollow in front of the elbow-joint with a straight course to the inner side of the fore part of the styloid process of the radius. Surgical Ana tomy.—The ra- dial artery is much exposed to injury in its lower third, and is frecpiently wounded by the hand being driven through a pane of glass, by the slipping of a knife or chisel held in the other hand, and such-like accidents. The injury is often followed by a traumatic aneurism, for which the old operation of laying open the sac and securing the vessel above and below is required. The operation of tying the radial artery is required in cases of wounds either of its trunk, or of some of its branches, or for aneurism : and it will be ob- served, that the vessel may be exposed in any part of its course through the forearm without the division of any muscular fibres. The operation in the middle or inferior third of the forearm is easily performed; but in the upper third, near the elbow, it is attended with some difficulty, from the greater depth of the vessel, and ft-om its being overlapped by the Supinator longus muscle. To tie the artery in the upper third, an incision three inches in length should be made Deep branch Siqierficialis voice