THE SKELETON 242 The metacarpal bone of the riiig-fing^er is shorter and smaller than the preceding, and its base small and quadrilateral; the carpal sm^face of the base presenting tAvo facets, for articulation with the unciform and os magnum. On the radial side are two oval facets, for articulation with the third metacarpal bone ; and on the ulnar side, a single concave facet, for the fifth metacarpal. If this bone is placed with the base towards the student, and the palmar surface upwards, the radial side of the base, w^hich has two facets for articulation with the third metacarpal bone, will be on the side to which it belongs. If, as sometimes hai:)pens in badly marked bones, one of these facets is indistinguishable, the side may be known by selecting the surface on which the larger articular facet is present. This facet is for the fifth metacarpal bone, and would therefore be situated on the ulnar side—that is, the one to which the bone does not belong. The metacarpal bone of the little finger presents on its base one facet, which is concavo-convex, and which articulates with the unciform bone, and one lateral, articular facet, which articulates with the fourth metacarpal bone. On its ulnar side is a prominent tubercle, for the insertion of the tendon of the Extensor carpi ulnaris. The dorsal surface of the shaft is marked by an oblique ridge, which extends from near the ulnar side of the upper extremity to the radial side of the lower. The outer division of this surface serves for the attachment of the Fourth dorsal interosseous muscle; the inner division is smooth, and covered by the Extensor tendons of the little finger. If this bone is placed with its base towards the student, and its palmar surface upwards, the side of the head which has a lateral facet will be that to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—Besides the phalangeal articulations, the first metacarpal bone articulates with the trapezium ; the second with the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and third metacarpal bones ; the third with the os magnum, and second and fourth metacarpal bones ; the fourth with the os magnum, unciform, and third and fifth metacarpal bones ; and the fifth with the unciform and fourth metacarpal. The first has no lateral facets on its carpal extremity ; the second has no lateral facet on its radial side, but one on its ulnar side ; the third has one on its radial and two on its ulnar side ; the fourth has two on its radial and one on its ulnar side ; and the fifth has only one on its radial side. Attachment of Muscles.—To the metacarpal bone of the thumb, four : the Flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis, Flexor brevis pollicis, Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and First dorsal interosseous. To the second metacarpal bone, seven : the Flexor carpi radialis, Extensor carpi radialis longior, Adductor transversus pollicis, Adductor obliquus pollicis. First and Second dorsal interosseous, and First palmar interosseous. To the third, six : the Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Flexor carpi radialis, Adductor transversus pollicis. Adductor obliquus pollicis, and Second and Third dorsal interosseous. To the fourth, three : the Third and Fourth dorsal and Second palmar interosseous. To the fifth, five : the Extensor carpi ulnaris. Flexor carpi ulnaris, Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti, Fourth dorsal and Third palmar interosseous. Phalanges The Phalanges (internodia) are the bones of the fingers ; they are fourteen in number, three for each finger, and two for the thumb. They are long bones, and present for examination a shaft and two extremities. The shaft tapers from above downwards, is convex posteriorly, concave in front from above downwards, flat from side to side, and marked laterally by rough ridges, which give attachment to the fibrous sheaths of the Flexor tendons. The metacarpal extremity or base, in the first row presents an oval, concave, articular surface, broader from side to side than from before backwards; and the same extremity in the other two rows, a double concavity, separated by a longitudinal median ridge, extending from before backwards. The digital extreviitics are smaller than the others, and terminate.