THE URINARY ORGANS ioo8 as high as the upper border of the symphysis pubis. When sUghtly distended, it has a rounded form, and is still contained within the pelvic cavity ; and when greatly distended it is ovoid in shape, rising into the abdominal cavity, and often extending nearly as high as the umbilicus. It is larger in its vertical diameter than from side to side, and its long axis is directed from above obliquely downwards and backwards, in a line directed from some point between the os pubis and umbilicus (according to its distension) to the end of the coccyx. The bladder, when distended, is slightly curved forwards towards the anterior wall of the abdomen, so as to be more convex behind than in front. In the female it is larger in the transverse than in the vertical diameter, and its capacity is said to be greater than in the male.* ^Yhen moderately distended, it measures about five inches in length, and three inches across, and the ordinary amount which it contains is about a pint. Fig. 600.—Frontal section of the lower part of the abdomen. Viewed from the front. (Braime.) External iliac Anterior crural External oblique Vermiform appendix artery nerve muscle Profunda vessels Levator ani Corpora TJretlira cavernosa The bladder is divided into a summit, body, base, and neck. The summit, or apex, of the bladder is rounded and directed forwards and upwards ; it is connected to the umbilicus by a fibro-muscular cord, the urachus. The summit of the bladder behind the urachus is covered by peritoneum, whilst the portion in front of the urachus has no peritoneal covering, but rests against the abdominal wall. The urachus is the obliterated remains of a tubular canal which exists in the embryo, and connects the cavity of the bladder with a membranous sac placed external to the abdomen, opposite the umbilicus, called the allantois. It passes upwards, from the apex of the bladder between the transversalis fascia and peri- * Accordmg to Henle, the bladder is considerably smaller in the female than in the male.