MOVEMENT OF THE RIBS ON THE VERTEBR.^ hinder part being prevented from performing any upward movement by its close connection with the spine. In this gliding movement there are two axes of rotation— that is to say, the rib rotates on an axis corresponding with a Une drawn through the two articulations, Costo-vertebral and Costo-transverse, which the rib forms with the spine ; and secondly, it rotates on an axis corresponding with a line drawn from the head of the rib to the sternum. By the first movement—that of rotation of the rib on an axis corresponding with a line drawn through the two articulations which this bone forms with the spine—an elevation of the anterior part of the rib takes place, and a consequent enlargement of the antero-posterior diameter of the chest. None of the ribs lie in a truly horizontal plane : Fig. 237.—Diagrams showing the axis of rotation of they are all directed more or less obliquely, so that their anterior extremities lie on a lower level than their posterior, and this obliquity increases from the first to the seventh, and then again decreases. If we examine any one rib—say, that in which there is the greatest obliquity—we shall see that it is obvious that as its sternal extremity is carried upwards, it must also be thrown forwards ; so that the rib may be regarded as a radius, moving on the verte- bral joint as a centre, and causing the sternal attachment to describe an arc of a circle in the vertical plane of the body. Since all the ribs are oblique and connected in front to the sternum by the elastic costal cartilages, they must have a tendency to thrust the sternum forwards, and so increase the antero-posterior diameter of the chest. By the second movement—that of the rotation of the rib on an axis corresponding with a line drawn from the head of the rib to the sternum—-an elevation of the middle portion of the rib takes place, and consequently an increase in the transverse diameter of the chest. For the ribs not only slant downwards and forwards from their vertebral attachment, but they are also oblique in relation to their transverse plane—that is to say, their middle is on a lower level than either their vertebral or sternal extremities. It results from this that when the ribs are raised, the centre portion is thrust outwards, somewhat after the fashion in which the handle of a bucket is thrust away from the side when raised to a horizontal position, and the lateral diameter of the chest is increased (see fig- 237). The mobility of the different ribs varies very much. The first rib is more fixed than the others, on account of the weight of the upper extremity and the strain of the ribs beneath; but on the freshly dissected thorax it moves as X 2 the ribs m the movements of respiration. The one axis of rotation corresponds with a line drawn through the two articulations which the rib forms with the spine (a, b), and the other with a line drawn from the head of the rib to the sternum (A, b). (From Kirke's ' Handbook of Physiology.')