575 BEACHIAL Relations.—This artery is superficial throughout its entire extent, being covered, in front, by the integument, the superficial and deep fascia ; the bicipital fascia separates it opposite the elbow from the median basilic vein; the median nerve crosses it at its middle. Behindj it is separated from the inner side of the humerus above, by the long and inner heads of the Triceps, the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda "artery intervening; and from the front of the bone below, by the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis muscle, and by the Brachialis anticus. By its outer side, it is in Fig. 363.— The surgical anatomy of the brachial artery. relation with the commencement of the median nerve, and the Coraco- brachialis and Biceps muscles, which slightly overlap the artery. By its inner side, its upper half is in relation with the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves, its lower half with the median nerve. The basilic vein lies on the inner side of the artery, but is separated from it in the lower part of the arm by the deep fascia. It is accom- panied by two venffi comites, which lie in close contact witlg, the artery, being connected together at intervals by short transverse communicating branches. Bend of the Elbow At the bend of the elbow the brachial artery sinks deeply into a triangular interval, the base of which is directed upwards towards the humerus, and the sides of which are bounded, externally, by the Supinator longus ; internally, by the Pronator radii teres ; its floor is formed by the Brachialis anticus and Supinator brevis. This space contains the brachial artery, with its accompanying veins ; the radial and ulnar arteries ; the median and musculo-spiral nerves; and the tendon of the Biceps. The brachial artery occupies the middle line of this space, and divides opposite the neck of the radius into the radial and ulnar arteries; it is covered, in front, by the integument, the superficial fascia, and the median basilic vein, the vein being separated from 'direct contact with the artery by the bicipital fascia. Behind, it Ues on the BrachiaHs anticus, which separates it from the elbow-joint. The median nerve Kes on the inner side of the artery, close to it above ; but separated from it below by the coronoid head of the Pronator radii teres. The tendon of the Biceps Hes to the outer side of the space, and the musculo-spiral nerve still more externally, lying upon the Supinator brevis, and partly concealed by the Supinator longus.