34 GENERAL ANATOMY Upon closer examination with a very high power the appearances become more comphcated and are susceptible of various interpretations. The transverse striation, which in figs. 38 and 39 appears as a mere alternation of dark and light bands, is resolved into the appearance shown in fig. 40, which shows a series of broad dark bands, separated by a light band, which is itself divided into two by a dark streak. This streak is termed Krause's membrane ; it is continuoivs at each end with the sarcolemma investing the muscular fibre. Thus it may be said that the fibre is divided into a number of transverse compartments by this membrane, each compartment containing in the centre a dark plate with a bright border above and below; that is to say, between the dark central part and the membrane of Krause. A muscular fibre presents, then, the appearance of the following layers in regular alternation: a dark layer, the transverse disc ; a bright transparent layer, the lateral disc ; a dark line, the intermediate disc or membrane of Krause ; then another lateral disc, a transverse disc, and so on (figs. 40 and 41). This appearance, following the observations of Rollett, is due to the mode of formation Fig. 38.—Two human mus- cular fibres. Magnified 350 times. Fig. 39.—Fragments of striped elementary fibres, showing a cleavage in opposite direc- tions. Magnified 300 diameters. lu the one, the bimdle of fibrillfe (b) is torn, and the sarcolemma (a) is seen as an empty tube. . Longitudinal cleavage. The longituilinal and transverse lines are both seen. Some longitudinal lines are darker and wider than the rest, and are not continuous from end to end. This results from partial separation of the fibrillEe. c. FibiillEe separated from one another by violence at the broken end of the fibre, and marked by transverse lines equal in width to those on the fibre, c' c" represent two appearances commonly presented by the separated single fibrillfe (more highly magnified). At c' the borders and transverse lines are ail perfectly rectilinear, and the included spaces perfectly rectangular. At c" the borders are scalloped and the spaces bead-like. When most distinct and definite the fibrilla presents the former of these appearances. B. Transverse cleavage. The longitudinal lines are scarcely visible, a. Incomplete fracture following the opposite sur- faces of a disc, which stretches across the interval, and retains the two fragments in connection. , The edge and surfaces of this disc are seen to be minutely granular, the granules corresponding in size to the thickness of the disc, and to the distance between the faint longitudinal lines. 6. Another disc nearly detached, b'. Detached disc, more highly magnified, showing the sarcous elements. of a muscular fibre, which is made up of two principal parts : i, fibrillse ; and 2, a hyaline or faintly granular substance, resembling protoplasm, and called sarco- plasm. The fibrillse are arranged in bundles called muscular columns or sarco- styles, and these again in larger groups, which, collected together, form the fibre. The fibrilL^ are surrounded by the sarcoplasm, which surrounds also the columns and groups of columns, being in these latter situations greater in amount than between the fibrillae. 80 that on transverse section a muscular fibre is seen to be divided into a number of areas, called the areas of Cohnhei7n, more or less poly- hedral in shape, and consisting of the columns of fibrillae surrounded by transparent series of sarcoplasm. And these areas are collected into larger or smaller groups, which in the same manner are surrounded by transparent sarcoplasm. Each area of Cohnheim presents a granular appearance due to the cross-section of its constituent fibrillse, surrounded by a small amount of the hyaline sarcoplasm. The fibrillse extend throughout the whole length of, and are parallel to, the long axis of the