POSTEEIOE FEMORAL REGION 497 immediately around the inner side of the obturator foramen, viz. from the body and ramus of the os pubis, and the ramus of the ischium; it also arises from the inner two-thirds of the outer surface of the obturator membrane, and from the tendinous arch which completes the canal for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerves. The fibres converging pass backwards, outwards, and upwards, and terminate in a tendon which runs across the back part of the hip-joint, and is inserted into the digital fossa of the feiiiur. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the Psoas, Iliacus, Pectineus, Adductor magnus. Adductor brevis, and Gracilis ; and more externally, with the neck of the femur and capsule of the hip-joint. By its posterior surface, with the obturator membrane and Quadratus femoris. Nerves.—The Gluteus maximus is supplied by the inferior gluteal nerve from the sacral plexus ; the Gluteus medius and minimus, by the superior gluteal; the Pyriformis, Gemelli, Obturator internus, and Quadratus femoris, by branches from the sacral plexus ; and the Obturator externus, by the obturator nerve. Actions.—The Gluteus maximus, when it takes its fixed point from the pelvis, extends the femur and brings the bent thigh into a line with the body. Taking its fixed point from below, it acts upon the pelvis, supporting it and the whole trunk upon the head of the femur, which is especially obvious in standing on one leg. Its most powerful action is to cause the body to regain the erect position after stooping, by drawing the pelvis backwards, being assisted in this action by the Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semimembranosus. The Gluteus maximus is a tensor of the fascia lata, and by its connection with the ilio-tibial band it steadies the femur on the articular surface of the tibia during standing, when the extensor muscles are relaxed. The lower part of the muscle also acts as an abductor and external rotator of the limb. The Gluteus medius and minimus abduct the thigh, when the limb is extended, and are principally called into action in supporting the body on one limb, in conjunction with the Tensor vaginae femoris. Their anterior fibres, by drawing the great trochanter forwards, rotate the thigh inwards, in which action they are also assisted by the Tensor vaginae femoris. The remaining muscles are powerful rotators of the thigh outwards. In the sitting posture, when the thigh is flexed upon the pelvis, their action as rotators ceases, and they become abductors, with the exception of the Obturator externus, which still rotates the femur outwards. When the femur is fixed, the Pyriformis and Obturator muscles serve to draw the pelvis forwards if it has been inclined back- wards, and assist in steadying it upon the head of the femur. POSTEEIOR FeMOEAL ReGION Biceps. Semitendinosus. Semimembranosus. Dissection (fig. 328).—Make a vertical incision along the middle of the thigh, from the lower fold of the nates to about three inches below the back of the knee-joint, and there connect it with a transverse incision, carried from the inner to the outer side of the leg. Make a third incision transversely at the junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh. The integument having been removed from the back of the knee, and the boundaries of the popliteal space examined, the removal of the integument from the remaining part of the thigh should be continued, when the fascia and muscles of this region will be exposed. The Biceps (jBz'ceps/Ze;3;or cruris) is a large muscle, of considerable length, situated on the posterior and outer aspect of the thigh (fig. 329). It arises by two heads. One, the long head, arises from the lower and inner facet on the back part of the tuberosity of the ischium, by a tendon common to it and the Semitendinosus. The femoral, or short head, arises from the outer lip of the linea aspera, between the Adductor magnus and Vastus externus, extending up almost as high as the insertion of the Gluteus maximus, and from its outer prolongation below to within two inches of the outer condyle ; it also arises from the external intermuscular septum. The fibres of the long head* form a fusiform belly, which, passing obliquely downwards and a little outwards, terminates in an aponeurosis which covers the posterior K K