456 MUSCLES AND FASCIA occasionally multilocular, is situated on the front part of this surface, beneath the tendon. The long head of the Triceps descends between the Teres minor and Teres major, dividing the triangular space between these two muscles and the humerus into two smaller spaces, one triangular, the other quadrangular (fig. 305). The triangular space contains the dorsal is scapulae vessels ; it is bounded by the Teres minor above, the Teres major below, and the scapular head of the Triceps externallv: the quadrangular space transmits the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve ; it is bounded by the Teres minor above, the Teres major below, the scapular head of the Triceps internally, and the humerus exter- nally. Relations.—By its posterior surface, with the Deltoid above : in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous. By its anterior surface, with the humerus, musculo- spiral nerve, superior profunda vessels, and back part of the elbow-joint. Its middle or long liead is in relation, behind, with the Deltoid and Teres minor; in front, with the Subscapularis, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major. The Subanconeus is a name given to a few fibres from the lower part of the Triceps muscle, which are inserted into the posterior ligament of the elbow-joint. By some authors it is regarded as the analogue of the Subcrureus in the lower limb, but it is not a separate muscle. Nerves.—The Triceps is supplied by the musculo-spiral nerve. Actions.—The Triceps is the great extensor muscle of the forearm, serving, when the forearm is flexed, to extend the elbow-joint. It is the direct antagonist of the Biceps and Brachialis anticus. When the arm is extended, the long head of the muscle may assist the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi in drawing the humerus backwards and in adducting it to the thorax. The long head of the Triceps protects the under part of the shoulder-joint, and prevents displacement of the head of the humerus downwards and backwards. The Subanconeus draws up the posterior ligament during extension of the forearm. Stirgical Anatomy.—The existence of the band of fibres from the Triceps to the fascia of the forearm is of importance in excision of the elbow and should always be carefully preserved from injury by the operator, as by means of these fibres the patient is enabled to extend the forearm, a movement which would otherwise mainly be accomplished by gravity, that is to say, allowing the forearm to drop from its own weight. Muscles of the Fokearm Dissection.—^To dissect the forearm, place the limb in the position indicated in fig. 301 ; make a vertical incision along the middle line from the elbow to the wrist, and a transverse incision at the extremity of this; the superficial structures being removed, the deep fascia of the forearm is exposed. The deep fascia of the forearm, continuous above with that enclosing the arm, is a dense, highly glistening aponeurotic investment, which forms a general sheath enclosing the muscles in this region ; it is attached, behind, to the olecranon and posterior border of the ulna, and gives off from its inner surface numerous inter- muscular septa, which enclose each muscle separately. Below, it is continuous in front with the anterior annular ligament, and forms a sheath for the tendon of the Palmaris longus muscle, which passes over the annular ligament to be inserted into the palmar fascia. Behind, near the wrist-joint, it becomes much thickened by the addition of many transverse fibres, and forms the posterior annular liga- ment. It consists of circular and oblique fibres, connected together by numerous vertical fibres. It is much thicker on the dorsal than on the palmar surface, and at the lower than at the upper part of the forearm, and is strengthened by tendinous fibres derived from the Brachialis anticus and Biceps in front, and from the Triceps behind. Its inner surface gives origin to muscular fibres, especially at the upper part of the inner and outer sides of the forearm, and forms the boundaries of a series of conical-shaped cavities, in which the muscles are contained. Besides the-vertical septa separating each muscle, transverse septa are