MUSCLES AND FASCIA and alternate with the descending septa. The lateral portions of the muscle—that is to say, the fibres arising from the clavicle and spine of the scapula—are not arranged in this manner, but consist of parallel fasciculi passing from their origin above, to be inserted into the margins of the inferior tendon. Relations.—By its sujjerficial surface, with the integument, the superficial fascia, Platysma, and supra-acromial nerves. Its deeiJ surface is separated from the head of the humerus by a large sacculated synovial bursa, and covers the coracoid process, coraco-acromial ligament, Pectoralisminor, Coraco-brachialis, both heads of the Biceps, the tendon of the Pectoralis major, the insertions of the Supra- spinatus. Infraspinatus, and Teres minor, the scapular and external heads of the Triceps, the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the humerus. Its anterior border is separated at its upper part from the Pectoralis major by a cellular interspace, which lodges the cephalic vein and descending branch of the acromial thoracic artery : lower down the two muscles are in close contact, li^ posterior boi'-der rests on the Infraspinatus and Triceps muscles. Nerves.—The Deltoid is supplied by the circumflex nerve. Actions.—The Deltoid raises the arm directly from the side, so as to bring it at right angles with the trunk. Its anterior fibres, assisted by the Pectoralis major, draw the arm forwards ; and its posterior fibres, aided by the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi, draw it backwards. Surgical Anatomy.—The Deltoid is very liable to atrophy, and when in this condition simulates dislocation of the shoulder-joint, as there is flattening of the shoulder and apparent prominence of the acromion process; upon examination, however, it will be found that the relative position of the great tuberositj^ of the humerus to the acromion and coracoid process is unchanged. Atrophy of the Deltoid may be due to disuse or loss of trophic influence, either from injury to the circumflex nerve or cord lesions, as in infantile paralysis. Dissection.—Divide the Deltoid across, near its upper part, by an incision carried along the margin of the clavicle, the acromion process, and spine of the scapula, and reflect it downwards : the bursa will be seen on its under surface, as well as the circumflex vessels and nerve. Anteeioe Scapulak Eegion Subscapularis. The subscapular fascia is a thin membrane attached to the entire circumference of the subscapular fossa, and affording attachment by its inner surface to some of the fibres of the Subscapularis muscle : when this is removed, the Subscapularis muscle is exposed. The Subscapularis (fig. 303) is a large triangular muscle, which fills up the subscapular fossa, arising from its internal two-thirds, with the exception of a narrow margin along the posterior border, and the surfaces at the superior and inferior angles which afford attachment to the Serratus magnus. Some fibres arise from tendinous laminte, which intersect the muscle, and are attached to ridges on the bone; and others from an aponeurosis, which separates the muscle from the Teres major and the long head of the Triceps. The fibres pass outwards, and, gradually converging, terminate in a tendon, which is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Those fibres which arise from the axillary border of the scapula are inserted into the neck of the humerus to the extent of an inch below the tuberosity. The tendon of the muscle is in close contact with the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, and glides over a large bursa, which separates it from the base of the coracoid process. This bursa communicates with the cavity of the joint by an aperture in the capsular ligament. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the Serratus magnus, Coraco- brachialis, and Biceps, the axillary vessels and nerves, and the subscapular vessels and nerves. By its ^posterior surface, with the scapula and the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. Its loiuer border is contiguous with the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi.