GENEEAL ANATOMY 70 possible that it sometimes occurs before the ovum has entered the tube, or after it has passed through the tube and reached the cavity of the uterus ; abnormally it may even take place in the peritoneal cavity. One spermatozoon, more advanced than the rest, becomes buried in the yolk, the tail disappears, and the head, a sort of nuclear body, constitutes the ' male pronucleus.' This gradually approaches the female' pronucleus, which by this time is situated in the centre of the yolk. As soon as they come into contact they fuse into one, and thus fecundation is effected (fig. 74). It is believed by some physiologists that one spermatozoon is sufficient for fecundation ; but in all probability several spermatozoa, as a rule, penetrate the yolk and undergo the same process of conversion into male pronuclei, reach the female pronucleus, and fuse with it.* The first result of the fertilisation of the ovum is a cleavage or multiplication of the yolk, which is first cleft into two masses, the germinal vesicle having pre- viously split up into two nuclei; so that it now consists of two separate masses of protoplasm, each containing a nucleus, situated within the original vitelline membrane which takes no part in this process of division. Then, each of these two daughter elements divides in like manner, and thus four nucleated elements Fig. 74.—Fertilisation of the ovum of an echinoderm. a. Spermatozoon, m. pr. Male pronucleus, f.pr. Female pronucleus, i. Accession of a spermatozoon to the peri- phery of the vitellus. 2. Its penetration. 3. Transformation of the head of the spermatozoon into the male pronucleus. 4, 5. Blending of the male and female pronuclei. (Prom Quain's ' Anatomy,' Seleuka.) are formed, and so on, until at length a mulberry-like agglomeration of nucleated masses of protoplasm results (fig. 75). These masses are sometimes termed vitelline spheres. The manner in which segmentation occurs is somewhat peculiar. The two spheres resulting from the first cleavage are of unequal size. One, which for the sake of distinction we will call the u]jper or epiblastic cell, is larger than the other, the loioer or hypoblastic cell. And after they have divided three or four times, the rate of cleavage in the spheres derived from the upper or epiblastic segment becomes more rapid than in those derived from the lower or hypo- blastic segment. In addition to this, the spheres derived from the upper segment have a tendency to spread over and enclose those from the lower segment; so that by about the ninth or tenth division there is an external layer of spheres derived from the primary upper or epiblastic segment surrounding and almost enclosing a mass of spheres, which in consequence of their diminished rate of cleavage are fewer in number and larger in size, derived from the primary lower or hypoblastic segment (fig. 76, a). Fluid collects between the two sets of spheres, that the usual spot at which the spermatozoa meet the ovum is in the tube, down which it slowly travels to the uterus, in its course becoming surrounded by an albuminous envelope derived from the walls of the tube. j * If the student refers to the development of the generative organs, he will find that j the ovum of the female and the spermatozoon of the male are derived from fundamentally the same structures, and therefore their fusion is the union of two elements of very similar morphological value.