8o8 SPINAL NERVES the two, supplies the outer side of the little toe, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the two Interosseous muscles of the fourth metatarsal space ; the other and larger digital branch supplies the adjoining sides of the fourth and fifth toes, and com- municates with the internal plantar nerve. The deep or muscular branch accompanies the external plantar artery into the deep part of the sole of the foot, beneath the tendons of the Flexor muscles and Adductor transversus hallucis, and supplies all the Interossei (except those in the fourth metatarsal space), the two outer Lumbricales, the Adductor obliquus hallucis, and the Adductor transversus hallucis. The External Popliteal or Peroneal Nerve (fig. 471), about one-half the size of the internal popliteal, descends obliquely along the outer sides of the popliteal space to the head of the fibula, close to the inner margin of the Biceps muscle. It is easily felt beneath the skin behind the head of the fibula, at the inner side of the tendon of the Biceps. It passes between the tendon of the Biceps and outer head of the Gastrocnemius muscle, winds round the neck of the fibula, pierces the origin of the Peroneus longus, and divides beneath that muscle into the anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves. The branches of the peroneal nerve, previous to its division, are articular and cutaneous. The articular branches are three in number ; two of these accompany the superior and inferior external articular arteries to the outer side of the knee. The upper one occasionally arises from the great sciatic nerve before its bifurcation. The third [recurrent) articular nerve is given off at fbe point of division of the peroneal nerve ; it ascends with the anterior recurrent tibial artery through the Tibialis anticus muscle to the front of the knee, which it supplies. The cutaneous branches, two or three in number, supply the integument along the back part and outer side of the leg, as far as its middle or lower part; one of these, larger than the rest, the communicans peronei, arises near the head of the fibula, crosses the external head of the Gastrocnemius to the middle of the leg, and joins with the communicans poplitei to form the external saphenous. This nerve occasionally exists as a separate branch, which is continued down as far as the heel. The Anterior Tibial Nerve (fig. 467) commences at the bifurcation of the peroneal nerve, between the fibula and upper part of the Peroneus longus, passes obliquely forw^ards beneath the Extensor longus digitorum to the fore part of the interosseous membrane, and reaches the outer side of the anterior tibial artery above the middle of the leg ; it then descends with the artery to the front of the ankle-joint, where it divides into an external and an internal branch. This nerve lies at first on the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, then in front of it, and again at its outer side at the ankle-joint. The branches of the anterior tibial nerve, in its course through the leg, are the mus- cular branches to the Tibialis anticus. Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, and Extensor proprius hallucis muscles, and an articular branch to the ankle-joint. The external or tarsal branch of the anterior tibial passes outwards across the tarsus, beneath the Extensor brevis digitorum, and, having become ganglionic like the posterior interosseous nerve at the wrist, supplies the Extensor brevis digitorum. From the ganglion are given off three minute interosseous branches which supply the tarsal joints and the metatarso-phalangeal joints of the second, third, and fourth toes. The first of these sends a filament to the second dorsal interosseous muscle. The internal branch, the continuation of the nerve, accompanies the dorsalis pedis artery along the inner side of the dorsum of the foot, and, at the first inter- osseous space, divides into two branches, wdiich supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toes, communicating with the internal branch of the musculo- cutaneous nerve. Before it divides it gives off an interosseous branch to the first space, which supplies the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe and sends a filament to the First dorsal interosseous muscle. The Musculo-cutaneous Nerve (fig. 467) supplies the muscles on the fibular side of the leg, and the integument of the dorsum of the foot. It passes forwards