CLASSIFICATION OF JOINTS 289 of the cranium and face, excepting those of the lower jaw. The varieties of synar- throsis are four in number : Sutura, Schindylesis, Gomphosis, and Synchondrosis. Sutura {a seam) is that form of articulation where the contiguous margins of flat bones are united by a thin layer of fibrous tissue. It is met with only in the skull. Where the articulating surfaces are connected by a series of processes and indentations interlocked together, it is termed sutura vera; of which there are three varieties : sutura dentata, serrata, and limbosa. The surfaces of the bones are not in direct contact, being separated by a layer of membrane, continuous externally with the pericranium, internally with the dura mater. The sutura dentata (dens, a tooth) is so called from the tooth-like form of the projecting articular processes, as in the suture between the parietal bones. In the sutura serrata (serra, a saiu) the edges of the two bones forming the articulation are serrated like the teeth of a fine saw, as between the two portions of the frontal bone. In the sutura limhosa (limbus, a selvage), besides the dentated processes, there is a certain degree of bevelling of the articular surfaces, so that the bones overlap one another, as in the suture between the parietal and frontal bones. When the articulation is formed by roughened surfaces placed in apposition with one another, it is termed the false suture (sutura notha), of which there are two kinds, the sutura, squamosa (squama, a scale), formed by the overlapping of two contiguous bones by broad bevelled margins, as in the squamo-parietal (squamous) suture ; and the sutura harmonia (dp/x,ovta, a joming together), where there is simple apposition of two contiguous rough bony surfaces, as in the articulation between the two superior maxillary bones, or of the horizontal plates of the palate bones. Schindylesis [crxtv^vX-qcn';, a fissure) is that form of articulation in which a thin plate of bone is received into a cleft or fissure formed by the separation of two laminae in another bone, as in the articulation of the rostrum of the sphenoid and perpendicular plate of the ethmoid with the vomer, or in the reception of the latter in the fissure between the superior maxillary and palate bones. Gomphosis (yo/x(^o?, a nail) is an articulation formed by the insertion of a conical process into a socket, as a nail is driven into a board ; this is not illustrated by any articulation between bones, properly so called, but is seen in the articulation of the teeth with the alveoli of the maxillary bones. Synchrondrosis.—Where the connecting medium is cartilage the joint is termed a synchondrosis. This is a temporary form of joint, for the cartilage becomes con- verted into bone before adult life. Such a joint is found between the epiphyses and shafts of long bones. 2. Amphiaethrosis. Mixed Articulations In this form of articulation, the contiguous osseous surfaces are either con- nected together by broad flattened discs of fibro-cartilage, of a more or less complex structure, which adhere to the end of each bone, as in the articulation between the bodies of the vertebras, and the sacro-iliac and pubic symphyses. This is termed Symphysis. Or, secondly, the bony surfaces are united by an interosseous ligament, as in the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. To this the term Syndesmosis is applied. 3. DiARTHEOsis. Movable Articulations This form of articulation includes the greater number of the joints in the body, mobility being their distinguishing character. They are formed by the approxi- mation of two contiguous bony surfaces, covered with cartilage, connected by ligaments, and lined by synovial membrane. The varieties of joints in this class have been determined by the kind of motion permitted in each. There are two varieties in which the movement is uniaxial, that is to say, all movements take place around one axis. In one form, the Ginglymus, this axis is practically speaking transverse; in the other, the trochoid or pivot-joint, it is longitudinal. There are two varieties where the movement is biaxial, or around two horizontal U