THE SUEGICAL AXATOMY OP INGUIXAL HERNIA Dissection (fig. 621 ).—For dissection of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia, a male snbject, free fi'om fat, should always be selected. The body should be placed in the supine position, the abdomen and pelvis raised by means of blocks placed beneath them, and the lower extremities rotated outwards, so as to make the parts as tense as possible. If the abdominal walls are flaccid, the ca\'ity of the abdomen should be inflated by an aperture through the umbihcus. An incision should be made along the middle line, from the mnbilicus to the symphj-sis pubis, and continued along the fr'ont of the scrotum; and a second incision, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to just below the umbilicus. These incisions should divide the integument; and the triangular-shaped flap included between them should be reflected dowTiwards and outwards, when the superficial fascia will be exposed. The Superficial Fascia of the Abdomen.—This, over the greater part of the abdominal wall, consists of a single layer of fascia, which contains a variable amoimt of fat; but as it approaches the groin it is easily di^^sible into two layers, between which are foimd the superficial vessels and nerves and the superficial inguinal lymphatic glands. The superficial layer is thick, areolar in texture, containing adipose tissue in its meshes, the quantity of which varies in different subjects. Below, it passes over Poupart's ligament, and is continuous with the outer layer of the superficial fascia of the thigh. In the male, this fascia is continued over the penis and over the outer surface of the cord to the scrotum, where it helps to form the dartos. As it passes to the penis and over the cord to the scrotum it changes its character, becoming thin, destitute of adipose tissue, and of a pale, reddish colour ; and in the scrotiun it acquires some involuntary muscular fibres. From the scrotum it may be traced backwards, to be continuous with the superficial fascia of the perinjeum. In the female this fascia is continued into the labia majora. The hypogastric branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve perforates the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle about an inch above and a little to the outer side of the external abdominal ring, and is distributed to the iutegument of the hypogastric region. The ilio-iiiguinal nerve escapes at the external abdominal ring, and is distributed to the integument of the upper and inner part of the thigh, to the scrotum in the male ; and to the labium in the female. The superficial epigastric artery arises from the femoral about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, and, passing through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, ascends on to the abdomen, in the superficial fascia covering the External oblique muscle, nearly as high as the umbilicus. It distributes branches to the superficial inguinal lymphatic glands, the superficial fascia, and the integument, anastomosing with branches of the deep epigastric and internal mammary arteries. The superficial circumflex iliac artery, the smallest of the cutaneous branches, arises close to the preceding, and, piercing the fascia lata, runs outwards, parallel with Poupart's ligament, as far as the crest of the ihum, dividing into branches which supply the superficial inguinal lymphatic glands, the superficial fascia and the integiunent, anastomosing T\-ith the deep circumflex ihac and with the gluteal and external circumflex arteries.