THE STKUCTURE OF THE KIDNEYS 997 from two to five lobules. This capillary network is derived from a small arterial twig, the afferent vessel, which pierces the wall of the capsule, generally at a point opposite that at which the latter is connected with the tube ; and the resulting vein, the efferent vessel, emerges from the capsule at the same point. The afferent vessel is usually the larger of the two (fig. 587). The Malpighian, or Boicman's capsule, which surrounds the glomerulus, is formed of a hyaline membrane, supported by a small amount of connective tissue, which is continuous with the connective tissue of the tube. It is lined on its inner surface by a layer of squamous epithelial cells, which are reflected from the lining membrane on to the glomerulus, at the point of entrance or exit of the afferent and efferent vessels. The whole surface of the glomerulus is covered with a continuous layer of the same cells, on a delicate supporting membrane, which Avith the cells dips in between the lobules of the glomerulus, closely surrounding them (fig. 588). Thus between the glomerulus and the capsule a space is left, forming a cavity lined by a continuous layer of cells, which varies in size according to the state of secretion and the amount of fluid present in it. The cells, as above stated, are squamous in the adult, but in the foetus and young subject they are polyhedral or even columnar. The tuhuli iiriniferi, commencing in the Malpighian bodies, in their course Fig. 587.—Minute structure Fig. 588.—Malpighian of kidney. body. present many changes in shape and direction, and are contained partly in the medullary and partly in the cortical portions of the organ. At their junction with the Malpighian capsule they present a somewhat constricted portion, which is termed the nech. Beyond this the tube becomes convoluted, and pursues a considerable course in the cortical structure, constituting the proximal convoluted tithe. After a time the convolutions disappear, and the tube approaches the medullary portion of the kidney in a more or less spiral manner. This section of the tube has been called the spiral tube of Schacliowa. Throughout this portion of their course the tubuli uriniferi have been contained entirely in the cortical structure, and have presented a pretty uniform calibre. They now enter the medullary portion ; suddenly become much smaller, quite straight in direction, and dip down for a variable depth into the pyramids, constituting the descending limb of Henle's loop. Bending on themselves, they form a kind of loop, the loop of Henle, and reascending, they become suddenly enlarged and again spiral in direction, forming the ascending limb of Henle's loop, and re-enter the cortical structure. This portion of the tube does not present a uniform calibre, but becomes narrower as it ascends, and irregular in outline. As a narrow tube it enters the cortex and ascends for a short distance, when it again becomes dilated, irregular, and angular. This section is termed the irregular tubule ; it terminates in a convoluted tube, which exactly resembles the proximal convoluted tubule, and is