OF THE HAND 471 preceding. It arises from the palmar surface of the trapezimn and annular ligament, passes downwards and outwards, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the thumb on its radial side. Relations.—By its suiDerficial surface, with the Abductor pollicis. By its deep surface, with the trapezio-metacarpal articulation. By its inner border, with the Flexor brevis pollicis. The Flexor brevis pollicis is much larger than either of the two preceding muscles, beneath which it is placed. It consists of two portions, outer and inner. The outer and more superficial portion arises from the trapezium and outer two- thirds of the annular ligament, and passes along the outer side of the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis ; and, becoming tendinous, has a sesamoid bone developed Fig. 315.—Muscles of thumb. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Koyal College of Surgeons of England.) ABDUCTOR POLL. in its tendon, and is inserted into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. The inner and deeper portion of the muscle is very small, and arises from the ulnar side of the first metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx with the Adductor obliquus pollicis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the common tendon of insertion. Relations.—By its stiperficial surface, with the palmar fascia. • By its deep surface, with the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis. By its external surface, with the Opponens pollicis. By its internal stirface, with the Adductor obliquus pollicis. The Adductor obliquus pollicis arises by several slips from the os magnum, the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones, the anterior annular ligament, and the sheath of the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis. From this origin the greater number of fibres pass obliquely downwards and converge to a tendon, which, uniting with the tendons of the deeper portion of the Flexor brevis pollicis and the Adductor transversus, is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, a sesamoid bone being developed in the tendon of insertion. A considerable fasciculus, however, passes more obliquely outwards beneath the