THE VASCULAR SYSTEM 49 is brought into view most distinctly by staining with nitrate of silver. 2. A sub- epithelial layer, consisting of delicate connective tissue with branched cells lying in the interspaces of the tissue. 3. An elastic or fenestrated layer, which con- sists of an elastic membrane contain- ing a network of elastic fibres, having Fiq.. 57._Transverse section through a principally a longitudinal direction and in which, under the microscope, small, elongated apertures or perforations may be seen, giving it a fenestrated appear- ance. It was therefore called by Henle the fenestrated membrane. This mem- brane forms the chief thickness of the inner coat, and can be separated into several layers, some of which present the appearance of a network of longi- tudinal elastic fibres, and others present a more membranous character, marked by pale lines having a longitudinal direc- tion. In arteries of less than a line in diameter the subepithelial layer consists of a single layer of stellate cells, and the connective tissue is only largely developed in the large-sized vessels. The fenestrated membrane in microscopic arteries is a i very thin layer, but in the larger arteries, and especially in the aorta, it has a very considerable thickness. The middle coat [tunica media) is dis- tinguished from the inner by its colour and by the transverse arrangement of its fibres, in contradistinction to the longitudinal direction of those of the inner coat. It consists of two varieties of structure, yelloio elastic tissue and mnscular tissue, which are present in varying quantities in different vessels, according to their size, j the former tissue preponderating in the ■ larger vessels and the latter in the smaller I ones. In the largest arteries this coat is of great thickness, of a yellow colour, and highly elastic; it diminishes in thick- ness and becomes redder in colour as the arteries become smaller, and finally 1 becomes very thin and disappears. In small arteries this coat is purely muscular, I consisting of muscle fibre-cells (fig. 44) united to form lamellae which vary in number according to the size of the artery ; the very small arteries having only a single layer, and those not larger than one tenth of a line in diameter three or four layers. In arteries of medium size (fig. 58) this coat becomes thicker in proportion to the size of the vessel; its layers of muscular tissue are more numerous and I intermixed with numerous fine elastic fibres which unite to form broad-meshed net- i works. In the larger vessels, as the femoral, superior mesenteric, coeliac axis, external iliac, brachial and popliteal arteries, the elastic fibres unite to form lamellae, which alternate with the layers of muscular fibre. In the largest arteries the muscular tissue is only slightly developed and forms about one-third or one- I fourth of the whole substance of the middle coat; this is especially the case in the aorta and trunk of the pulmonary artery, in which the individual cells of the muscular layer are imperfectly formed, while in the carotid, axillary, iliac, and subclavian arteries the muscular layer of the middle coat is more developed. The elastic lamellae are well marked, may amount to fifty or sixty in number, small arterj' and vein of the mucous membrane of the epiglottis of a child. Magnified about 350 diameters. (Klein and Noble Smith.) A. Artery, showing the nucleated endothelium, whicli lines it: the vessel being contracted, the endothelial cells appear very thick. Underneath the endothelium is the wavy elastic intima. The chief part of the wall of the vessel is occupied by the circular muscle-coat m : the staff-shaped nuclei of the muscle-cells are well seen. Outside this is a, part of the adventitia. This is composed of bundles of comiective-tissue fibres, shown in section, with the nuclei of the connective-tissue corpuscles. The adventitia gradually merges into the surrounding connective tissue, v. Vein show- ing a thin endothelial membrane, e, raised acci- dentally from the intima, which on account of its delicacy is seen as a mere line on the media in. This latter is composed of a few circular unstriped muscle-cells, a. The adventitia, similar in structure to that of an artery.