THE MEDIASTINUM 981 seventh cervical vertebra. This is covered and strengthened by a few spreading muscular fibres derived from the Scaleni muscles. A little above the middle of the sternum, the contiguous surfaces of the two pleurje are sometimes in contact for a slight extent; but above and below this point, the interval left between them forms part of the mediastinum. The inner surface of the pleura is smooth, polished, and moistened by a serous fluid ; its outer surface is intimately adherent to the surface of the lung, and to the pulmonary vessels as they emerge from the pericardium ; it is also adherent to the upper surface of the Diaphragm : throughout the rest of its extent it is somewhat thicker, and may be separated from the adjacent parts with extreme facility. The right ]3leural sac is shorter, wider, and reaches higher in the neck than the left. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the j^leura are derived from the inter- costal, the internal mammary, the musculo-phrenic, thymic, pericardiac, and bronchial. The veins correspond to the arteries. The lymjjJiatics are very numerous. The nerves are derived from the phrenic and sympathetic (Luschka). Kolliker states that nerves accompany the ramification of the bronchial arteries in the pleura pulmonalis. Surgical Anatomy.—-In operations upon the kidney, it must be borne in mind that the pleura may sometimes extend below the level of the last rib, and maj^ therefore be opened in these operations, especially when the last rib is removed in order to ^iwe more room. The Mediastinum The Mediastinum is the space left in the median line of the chest by the non- approximation of the two pleurae. It extends from the sternum in front to the spine behind, and contains all the viscera in the thorax excepting the lungs. The mediastinum may be divided for purposes of description into two parts : an upper portion, above the upper level of the pericardium, which is named the Superior mediastinum (Struthers); and a lower portion, below the upper level of the pericardium. This lower portion is again subdivided into three : that part which contains the pericardium and its contents, the middle mediastinum ; that part which is in front of the pericardium, the anterior mediastinum ; and that part which is behind the pericardium, the posterior mediastinum. The superior mediastinum is that portion of the interpleural space which lies above the upper level of the pericardium between the manubrium sterni in front, and the upper dorsal vertebrae behind. It is bounded below by a plane passing back- wards from the junction of the manubrium and gladiolus sterni to the lower part of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra. It contains the origins of the Sterno- hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles and the lower ends of the Longi colli muscles; the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta; the innominate, the thoracic portion of the left carotid and subclavian arteries ; the upper half of the superior vena cava and the innominate veins, and the left superior intercostal vein ; the pneumogastric, cardiac, phrenic, and left recurrent laryngeal nerves ; the trachea, oesophagus, and thoracic duct; the remains of the thymus gland and lymphatics. The anterior mediastinum is bounded in front by the sternum, on each side by the pleura, and behind by the pericardium. Owing to the oblique position of the heart towards the left side, this space is not parallel with the sternum, but directed obliquely from above downwards and to the left of the median line; it is broad below, narrow above, very narrow opposite the first segment of the gladiolus of the sternum, the contiguous surfaces of the two pleurae being occasionally united over a small space. The anterior mediastinum contains the origins of the Triangularis sterni muscles, and a quantity of loose areolar tissue, in which some lymphatic vessels are found ascending from the convex surface of the liver, and two or three lymphatic glands (anterior mediastinal glands). The middle mediastinum is the broadest part of the interpleural space. It contains the heart, enclosed in the pericardium, the ascending aorta, the lower