754 CRANIAL NERVES beneath this lies the nasal branch of the ophthalmic; then the inferior division of the third; and the sixth lowest of all. In the orhit, the fourth, and the frontal and lachrymal divisions of the ophthalmic, lie on the same plane immediately beneath the periosteum, the fourth nerve being internal and resting on the Superior oblique, the frontal resting on the Levator palpebrae, and the lachrymal on the External rectus. Next in order comes the superior division of the third nerve lying immediately beneath the Superior Fig. 447.—Relations of structures passing through the sphenoidal fissure. LACHRYMAL rectus, and then the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, crossing the optic nerve from the outer to the inner side of the orbit. Beneath these is found the optic nerve, surrounded in front by the ciliary nerves, and having the lenticular ganglion on its outer side, between it and the External rectus. Below the optic is the inferior division of the third, and the sixth, which lies on the outer side of the orbit. Surgical Anatomy.—The sixth nerve is more frequently involved in fractures of the base of the skull than any other of the cranial nerves. The result of paralysis of this nerve is internal or convergent squint. When injured so that its function is destroyed, there is, in addition to the paralysis of the External rectus muscle, often a certain amount of contraction of the pupil, because some of the sympathetic fibres to the radiating muscle of the iris pass along with this nerve. Seventh Neeve (figs. 448, 449, 450) The Seventh or Facial Nerve (portio dura) is the motor nerve of all the muscles of expression in the face, and of the Platysma and Buccinator ; the muscles of the External ear; the posterior belly of the Di- gastric, and the Stylo-hyoid. Through its chorda tympani it supplies the Lingualis; by its tympanic branch, the Stapedius. Its superficial origin is from the lateral tract of the medulla oblon- gata, in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. Its deep origin is from a nucleus on the floor of the fourth ventricle, a little below and external to the nucleus of the sixth, above the level of the auditory striae. The auditory nerve {portio mollis) lies to its outer side, and between the two is a small fasciculus {portio inter duram etmollemoi Wrisberg, or pars intermedia), which arises from the medulla and joins the facial nerve in the internal auditory meatus. At its origin it is frequently connected with both the nerves, between which it lies. Fig. 448.—The course and connections of the facial nerve in the temporal bone. External petrosal Small superficial petrosal Large superficial petrosal—-^^ Intumescentia ganglioformis