ORGANS OF SENSE 842 The arteries of the iris are derived from the long and anterior cihary, and from the vessels of the ciliary processes (see page 550). The nerves of the iris are derived from the ciliary branches of the lenticular ganglion, and the long ciliary from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth. After reaching the iris iii the manner described above (page 744) they form a plexus around the attached margin of the iris ; from this are derived non- medullated fibres which terminate in the circular and radiating muscular fibres. Their exact mode of termination has not been ascertained. Other fibres from the plexus terminate in a network on the anterior surface of the iris. The fibres derived from the motor root of the lenticular ganglion (third nerve) supply the circular fibres,, while those derived from the sympathetic supply the radiating fibres. Memhranapupillaris.—In the foetus, the pupil is closed by a delicate transparent vascular membrane, the memhrana impillaris, which divides the space into which the iris is suspended into two distinct chambers. This membrane contains numerous minute vessels, continued from the margin of the iris to those on the front part of the capsule of the lens. These vessels have a looped arrangement, and converge towards each other without anastomosing. Between the seventh and eighth month the membrane begins to disappear, by its gradual absorption from the centre towards the circumference, and at birth only a few fragments remain. It is said sometimes to remain permanent and produce blindness. The Ciliary muscle (BoAvman) consists of unstriped fibres : it forms a greyish, semitransparent, circular band, about one-eighth of an inch broad, on the outer surface of the fore part of the choroid. It is thickest in front, and gradually becomes thinner behind. It consists of two sets of fibres, radiating and circular. The former, much the more numerous, arise at the point of junction of the cornea and sclerotic, and, passing backwards, are attached to the choroid opposite to the ciliary processes. One bundle, according to Waldeyer, is continued backwards to be inserted into the sclerotic. The circular fibres are internal to the radiating ones and to some extent unconnected Avith them, and have a circular course around the attachment of the iris. They are sometimes called the ' ring muscle ' of Miiller, and were formerly described as the ciliary ligament. The Ciliary muscle is admitted to be the chief agent in accommodation, i.e. in adjusting the eye to the vision of near objects. Mr. Bowman believed that this was effected by its compressing the vitreous body, and so causing the lens to advance ; but the view which now prevails is that the contraction of the muscle, by drawing on the ciliary processes, relaxes the suspensory ligament of the lens, thus allowing the anterior surface of the lens to become more convex. The pupil is at the same time slightly contracted.* The Retina is a delicate nervous membrane, upon the surface of which the images of external objects are received. Its outer surface is in contact with the choroid ; the inner surface with the vitreous body. Behind, it is continuous with the optic nerve ; it gradually diminishes in thicknes s from behind forwards ; and, in front, extends nearly as far forwards as the ciliary muscle, where it terminates by a jagged margin, the ora serrata. It is soft, and semitransparent in the fresh state; but soon becomes clouded, opaque, and of a pinkish tint. Exactly in the centre of the posterior part of the retina, and at a point, corresponding to the axis of the eye, in which the sense of vision is most perfect, is a round, elevated, yellowish spot, called, after its discoverer, the yellow sijot or limhus luteus (macula lutea) of Sommerring ; having a central depression at its summit, the fovea centralis. The retina in the situation of the fovea centralis is exceedingly thin; so much so that the dark colour of the choroid is distinctly seen through it; so that it presents more the appearance of a foramen, and hence the name ' foramen of Sommerring ' at first given to it. It exists only in man, the quadrumana, and some saurian reptiles. About one-tenth of an inch to the inner side of the yellow * See explanation and diagram in Power's Illustrations of some of the Princix:)al Diseases of the Eye, p. 590.