3o8 ARTICULATIONS freely as the others. From the same causes the movement of the second rih is also not very extensive. In the other ribs, this mobility increases successively down to the last two, which are very movable. The ribs are generally more movable in the female than in the male. VII. Articulation of the Cartilages of the Ribs with the Sternum, etc. (fig. 238) The articulations of the cartilages of the true ribs with the sternum are arthro- dial joints, with the exception of the first, in which the cartilage is almost always directly united with the sternum, and which must, therefore, be regarded as a synarthrodial articulation. The ligaments connecting them are— Anterior Chondrb-sternal. Interarticular Chondro-sternal. Posterior Chondro-sternal. Anterior Chondro-xiphoid. Capsular. Posterior Chondro-xiphoid. The Anterior Chondro-sternal Ligament is a broad and thin membranous band that radiates from the front of the inner extremity of the cartilages of the true ribs to the anterior surface of the sternum. It is composed of fasciculi which pass in different directions. The superior fasciculi ascend obliquely, the inferior pass obliquely downwards, and the middle fasciculi horizontally. The superficial fibres of this ligament are the longest; they intermingle with the fibres of the ligaments above and below them, with those of the opposite side, and Avith the tendinous fibres of origin of the Pectoralis major, forming a thick fibrous membrane, Avhich covers the surface of the sternum. This is more distinct at the lower than at the upper part. The Posterior Chondro-sternal Ligament, less thick and distinct than the anterior, is composed of fibres which radiate from the posterior surface of the sternal end of the cartilages of the true ribs to the posterior surface of the sternum, becoming blended with the periosteum. The Capsular Ligament surrounds the joints formed between the cartilages of the true ribs and the sternum. It is very thin, intimately blended with the anterior and posterior ligaments, and strengthened at the upper and lower part of the articulation by a few fibres, which pass from the cartilage to the side of the sternum. These ligaments protect the synovial membranes. The Interarticular Chondro-sternal Ligaments.—These are only found between the second and third costal cartilages and the sternum. The cartilage of the second rih is connected with the sternum by means of an interarticular ligament, attached by one extremity to the cartilage of the second rib, and by the other extremity to the cartilage which unites the first and second pieces of the sternum. This articulation is provided with two synovial membranes. The cartilage of the third rib is connected with the sternum by means of an interarticular ligament which is attached by one extremity to the cartilage of the third rib, and by the ^ other extremity to the point of junction of the second and third pieces of the sternum. This articulation is provided with two synovial membranes. The Anterior Chondro-xiphoid.—This is a band of ligamentous fibres, which connects the anterior surface of the seventh costal cartilage, and occasionally also that of the sixth, to the anterior surface of the ensiform appendix. It varies in length and breadth in different subjects. The Posterior Chondro-xiphoid is a similar band of fibres on the internal or posterior surface, though less thick and distinct. Synovial Membranes.—There is no synovial membrane between the first costal cartilage and the sternum, as this cartilage is directly continuous with the sternum. There are two synovial membranes both in the articulation of the second and third costal cartilages to the sternum. There is generally one synovial membrane in each of the joints between the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh costal cartilages to the