OF THE BACK Trachelo-mastoid. Complexus. Biventer cervicis. Spinalis colli. Fifth Layer Semispinalis dorsi. Semispinalis colli. Multifidus spinae. Rotatores spinae. Supraspinales. Interspinales. Extensor coccygis. Intertransversales. Rectus capitis posticus major. Rectus capitis posticus minor. Obliquus capitis superior. Obliquus capitis inferior. FiEST Layer Trapezius. Latissimus dorsi. Fig. 2i -Dissection of the muscles of the back. Dissection (fig. 286).—Place the body in the prone position, with the arms extended over the sides of the table, and the chest and abdomen supported by several blocks, so as to render the muscles tense. Then make an incision along the middle line of the back, from the occipital protuberance to the coccyx. Make a transverse incision from the upper end of this to the mastoid process ; and a third incision from its lower end, along the crest of the ilium to about its middle. This large intervening space should, for convenience of dissection, be sub- divided by a fourth incision, extending obliquely from the spinous process of the last dorsal ver- tebra, upwards and outwards, to the acromion process. This incision corresponds with the lower border of the Trapezius muscle. The flaps of integument are then to be removed in the direc- tion shown in the figure. The superficial fascia is exposed upon removing the skin from the back. It forms a layer of considerable thickness and strength, in which a quantity of granular pinkish fat is contained. It is continuous with the superficial fascia in other parts of the body. The deep fascia is a dense fibrous layer, attached to the occipital bone, the spines of the vertebra, the crest of the ilium, and the spine of the scapula. It covers over the superficial muscles, forming sheaths for them, and is continuous, in the neck at the anterior border of the Trapezius, with the deep cervical fascia ; in the thorax, with the deep fascia of the axilla and chest, and in the abdomen with that covering the abdominal muscles. The Trapezius (fig. 287) is a broad, fiat, triangular muscle, placed immediately beneath the skin and fascia, and covering the upper and back part of the neck and shoulders. It arises from the inner third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone; from the ligamentum nuchae, the spinous process of the seventh cervical, and those of all the dorsal vertebrae ; and from the corresponding portion of the supraspinous ligament. From this origin, the superior fibres proceed downwards and outwards, the inferior ones upwards and outwards ; and the middle fibres, horizontally; and are inserted, the superior ones into the outer third of the posterior border of the clavicle ; the middle fibres into the inner margin of the acromion process, and into the superior lip of the posterior border or crest of the spine of the scapula ; the inferior fibres converge near the scapula, and terminate in a triangular aponeurosis, which glides over a smooth surface at the inner extremity