345 KNEE-JOINT Fig. 259. —Eight knee-joint, internal ligaments. Sliowino: lateral patellar ligaments and fills in the interval between the anterior and lateral ligaments of the joint, with which latter structures it is closely connected. Behind, it is strong, and formed chiefly of vertical fibres, which arise above from the condyles and intercondyloid notch of the femur, and is connected below with the back part of the head of the tibia, being closely united with the origins of the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, and Popliteus muscles. It passes in front of, but is inseparably connected with, the posterior ligament. The Crucial are two interosseous liga- ments of considerable strength, situated in the interior of the joint, nearer its posterior than its anterior part. They are called crucial because they cross each other somewhat like the lines of the letter X ; and have received the names anterior and ])Osterior, from the position of their attachment to the tibia. The Anterior, or External Crucial Ligament (fig. 259), is attached to the depression in front of the spine of the tibia, being blended with the anterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro- cartilage, and passing obliquely upwards, backwards, and outwards, is inserted into the inner and back part of the outer condyle of the femur. Its direction is upwards, backwards, and outwards. The Posterior, or Internal Crucial Ligament is stronger, but shorter and less oblique in its direction, than the anterior. It is attached to the back part of the de- pression behind the spine of the tibia, to the popliteal notch, and to the posterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage ; and passes upwards, forwards, and inwards, to be inserted into the outer and fore part of the inner condyle of the femur. As it crosses the anterior crucial liga- Fig. 260,—Head of tibia, with semilunar cartilages, etc. ment, a fasciculus is Seen from above. Eight side, given off from it, which blends with the poste- rior part of that liga- ment. It is in relation, in front, with the ante- rior crucial ligament; behind, with the capsu- lar ligament. The Semilunar Fibro-cartilages (fig. 260) are two crescentic lamellae, which serve to deepen the surface of the head of the tibia, for articulation with the condyles of the femur. The circumference of each cartilage is thick, convex, and attached to the inside of the capsule of the knee ; the inner border is thin, concave, and free. Their upper surfaces are concave,