THE SKELETON imfrequently broken from direct violence. The first metacarpal bone is the one most com- monly fractm^ed, then the second, the fourth and the fifth, the third being the one least frequently broken. There are two diseases of the metacarpal bones and phalanges which require special mention on account of the frequency of their occurrence. One is tubercular dactylitis, consisting in a deposit of tubercular material in the medullary canal, expandmg the bone,'with subsequent caseation and resulting necrosis. The other is chondroma, which is perhaps more frequently found in connection with the metacarpal bones and phalanges than with any other bones. They are commonly multiple, and may sprmg either from the meduUary canal, or from the periosteum. Development of the Bones of the Hand The Carpal Bones are each developed by a single centre. At birth, they .are all cartilaginous. Ossification proceeds in the following order (fig. 206) : In the Fig. 206.—Plan of the development of the hand. CABPUS One centre for each bone All cartilaginous at birth METAC.VEPUS Two centres for each bone : One for shaft One for digital extrejnity, except first PHALANGES Two centres for each bone : One for shaft One for metacarpal extremity OS magnum and unciform an ossific point appears during the first year, the former preceding the latter ; in the cuneiform, at the third year; in the trapezium and semilunar, at the fifth year, the former preceding the latter; in the scaphoid, at the sixth year; in the trapezoid, during the eighth year ; and in the pisiform, about the twelfth year. The Metacarpal Bones are each developed by tioo centres : one for the shaft, and one for the digital extremity, for the four inner metacarpal bones ; one for the shaft, and one for the base, for the metacarpal bone of the thumb, which in this respect resembles the phalanges.* Ossification commences in the centre of the shaft about the eighth or ninth week, and gradually proceeds to either end of the * Allen Thomson has demonstrated the fact that the first metacarpal bone is often developed from three centres; that is to say, there is a separate nucleus for the distal end.