THE SKELETON 132 transversely, concave from above downwards in the dorsal region, and convex in the same direction in the cervical and lumbar regions. The posterior surface presents in the median line the spinous processes. These are short, horizontal, with bifid extremities, in the cervical region. In the dorsal region, they are directed obliquely above, assume almost a vertical direction in the middle, and are horizontal below, as are also the spines of the lumbar vertebrae. They are separated by considerable intervals in the loins, by narrower intervals in the neck, and are closely approximated in the middle of the dorsal region. Occa- sionally one of these processes deviates a little from the median line—a fact to be remembered in practice, as irregularities of this sort are attendant also on fractures or displacements of the spine. On either side of the spinous processes, extending the whole length of the column, is the vertebral groove formed by the lamiufe in the cervical and lumbar regions, where it is shallow, and by the laminae and transverse processes in the dorsal region, where it is deep and broad. In the recent state, these grooves lodge the deep muscles of the back. External to the vertebral grooves are the articular processes, and still more externally the trans- verse process. In the dorsal region, the latter processes stand backwards, on a plane considerably posterior to the same processes in the cervical and lumbar regions. In the cervical region, the transverse processes are placed in front of the articular processes, and on the outer side of the pedicles, between the intervertebral foramina. In the dorsal region they are posterior to the pedicles, intervertebral foramina, and articular processes. In the lumbar, they are placed also in front of the articular processes, but behind the intervertebral foramina. The lateral surfaces are separated from the posterior by the articular processes in the cervical and lumbar regions, and by the transverse processes in the dorsal. These surfaces present in front the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, marked in the dorsal region by the facets for articulation with the heads of the ribs. More posteriorly are the intervertebral foramina, formed by the juxtaposition of the intervertebral notches, oval in shape, smallest in the cervical and upper part of the dorsal regions, and gradually increasing in size to the last lumbar. They are situated between the transverse processes in the neck, and in front of them in the back and loins, and transmit the spinal nerves. The base of that portion of the vertebral column formed by the twenty-four movable vertebrae is formed by the under surface of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra ; and the summit by the upper surface of the atlas. The vertebral or spinal canal follows the different curves of the spine ; it is largest in those regions in which the spine enjoys the greatest freedom of movement, as in the neck and loins, where it is wide and triangular ; and narrow and rounded in the back, where motion is more limited. Surface Form.—The only part of the vertebral coliuiin which lies closely under the skin, and so direct!}' influences surface form, is the apices of the spinous processes. These are alwaj^s distinguishable at the bottom of a median furrow, which, more or less evident, runs down the mesial line of the back from the external occipital protuberance above to the middle of the sacrum below. In the neck the furrow is broad, and terminates below in a conspicuous projection, which is caused by the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra (vertebra prominens). Above this the spinous process of the sixth cervical vertebra may sometimes be seen; the other cervical spines are sunken, and are not visible, though the spine of the axis can be felt, and generally also the spines of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrte. In the dorsal region the fim'ow is shallow, and during stooping disappears, and then the spinous processes become more or less visible. The markings produced by these spines are small and close together. In the lumbar region the furrow is deep, and the situation of the lumbar spines is frequently indicated by little pits or depressions, especially if the muscles in the loins are well developed and the spine incurved. They are much larger and farther apart than in the dorsal region. In the sacral regioii the furrow is shallower, presenting a flattened area which terminates below at the most prominent part of the posterior surface of the sacrum, formed by the spinous process of the third sacral vertebra. At the bottom of the furrow may be felt the irregular posterior sm-face of the bone. Below this, in the deep groove leading to the anus, the coccyx may be felt. The only other portions of the vertebral column which can be felt fi-om the surface are the transverse processes of three of the cervical vertebne—viz. the first, the sixth, and the seventh. The transverse process of the atlas can be felt as a