657 PORTAL SYSTEM reasons why these vems should become varicose : viz. the imperfect support afforded to them by the loose tissue of the scrotum ; their great length ; their vertical com'se ; their dependent position; their plexiform arrangement in the scrotum, with their termination in one small vein in the abdomen ; their few and imperfect valves ; and the fact that they may be subjected to pressure in their passage through the abdominal wall. The ovarian veins are analogous to the spermatic in the male; they form a plexus near the ovary and in the broad ligament and Fallopian tube, communi- cating with the uterine plexus. They terminate in the same way as the spermatic veins in the male. Valves are occasionally found in these veins. These vessels, like the uterine veins, become much enlarged during pregnancy. The renal veins are of large size, and placed in front of the renal arteries.* The left is longer than the right, and passes in front of the aorta, just below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. It receives the left spermatic, the left inferior phrenic, and, generally, the left suprarenal veins. It opens into the vena cava, a little higher than the right. The suprarenal veins terminate, on the right side, in the vena cava; on the left side, in the left renal or phrenic vein. The phrenic veins follow the course of the phrenic arteries. The tico suioerior, of small size, accompany the phrenic nerve and comes nervi phrenici artery, and join the internal mammary. The tico inferior phrenic veins follow the course of the phrenic arteries, and terminate, the right in the inferior vena cava, the left in the left renal vein. The hepatic veins commence in the substance of the liver, in the capillary terminations of the portal vein and hepatic artery: these tributaries, gradually uniting, usually form three large veins, which converge towards the posterior surface of the liver, and open into the inferior vena cava, w^hilst that vessel is situated in the groove at the back part of this organ. Of these three veins, one from the right, and another from the left lobe, open obliquely into the inferior vena cava ; that from the middle of the organ and lobulus Spigelii having a straight course. The hepatic veins run singly, and are in direct contact with the hepatic tissue. They are destitute of valves. Portal System of Veins The portal venous system is composed of four large veins, which collect the venous blood from the ^iscera of digestion. The trunk formed by their union {vena portce) enters the liver and ramifies throughout its substance; and its branches, again emerging from that organ as the hepatic veins, terminate in the inferior vena cava. The branches in this vein are in all cases single, and destitute of valves. The veins forming the portal system are, the Superior Mesenteric. Inferior Mesenteric. Splenic. Gastric. The superior mesenteric vein returns the blood from the small intestines, and from the caecum and ascending and transverse portions of the colon, corresponding with the distribution of the branches of the superior mesenteric artery. The large trunk formed by the union of these branches ascends along the right side and in front of the corresponding artery, passes in front of the transverse portion of the duodenum, and unites, behind the upper border of the pancreas, ^\iih. the splenic vein to form the vena portae. It receives the right gastro-epiploic vein. The splenic vein commences by five or six large branches, w^hich return the blood from the substance of the spleen. These uniting form a single vessel, which passes from left to right, grooving the upper and back part of the pancreas, below * The student may observe that all veins above the Diaphragm, which do not lie on the same x)lane as the arteries which they accompany, lie in front of them : and that all veins below the Diaphragm, which do not lie on the same plane as the arteries which they accompany, lie behind them, except the renal and profunda femoris vem. u u