POSTERIOR TIBIO FIBULAR REGION That is, in the order of dissection of the sole of the foot. its inner border, with the Tibiahs posticus, and posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The Flexor longus digitorum (])crforans) is situated on the tibial side of the leg. At its origin, it is thin and pointed, but gradually increases in size as it descends. It arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia imme- diately below the oblique line, to within three inches of its extremity interna] to the tibial origin of the Tibialis posticus ; some fibres also arise from the fascia covering the Tibialis posticus. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which runs nearly the whole length of the posterior surface of the muscle. This tendon passes behind the internal malleolus, in a groove, common to it and the Tibialis posticus, but separated from the latter by a fibrous septum ; each tendon being contained in a special sheath lined by a separate synovial membrane. It then passes obliquely forwards and outwards, crossing over the internal lateral ligament into the sole of the foot (fig. 334), where, crossing superficially to the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis,* to which it is connected by a strong tendinous slip, it becomes expanded, is joined by the Flexor accessorius, and finally divides into four tendons which are inserted into the bases of the last phalanges of the four lesser toes, each tendon passing- through a fissure in the tendon of the Flexor brevis digitorum opposite the base of the first phalanges. Relations.—In the leg : by its superficicd surface, with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and the deep transverse fascia, which separates it from the Soleus muscle ; by its deep surface, with the tibia and Tibialis posticus. In the foot, it is covered by the Abductor hallucis and Flexor brevis digitorum, and crosses superficial to the Flexor longus hallucis. The Tibialis posticus lies between the two preceding muscles, and is the most deeply seated of all the muscles in the leg. It commences above by two pointed processes, separated by an angular interval, through which the anterior tibial vessels x^ass forwards to the front of the leg. It arises from the whole of the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane, excepting its lowest part, from the posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia, external to the Flexor longus digitorum, between the commencement of the oblique line above, and the middle of the external border of the bone below, and from the upper two-thirds of the internal surface of the fibula ; some fibres also arise from the deep transverse fascia, and from the intermuscular septa, separating it from the adjacent muscles on each side. This muscle, in the lower fourth of the leg, passes in front of the Flexor longus digitorum, and terminates in a tendon, which passes through a groove behmd the inner malleolus, with the tendon of that muscle, but enclosed in a separate sheath ; it then passes through another sheath, over the internal lateral ligament into the foot, and then beneath the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament, and is inserted into the tuberosity of the navicular and internal cuneiform bones. The tendon of this muscle contains a sesamoid fibro-cartilage, as it passes over the navicular bone, and gives off fibrous expansions, one of which passes backwards to the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, others outwards to the middle and external cuneiform and cuboid, and some forwards to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones (fig. 335). Relations.—By its sujjerficial surface, with the Soleus, from which it is separated by the deep transverse fascia, the Flexor longus digitorum, the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and the peroneal vessels. By its c/eep surface, with the interosseous ligament, the tibia, fibula, and ankle-joint. Nerves.—The Popliteus is supplied by the internal popliteal nerve, the remaining muscles of this group by the posterior tibial nerve. Actions.—The Popliteus assists in flexing the leg upon the thigh ; when the leg is flexed, it will rotate the tibia inwards. It is especially called into action at the commencement of the act of bending the knee, inasmuch as it produces a slight inward rotation of the tibia, which is essential in the early stage of this