35 MUSCULAE TISSUE muscular fibre. They present the following appearances in regular alternation: (i) a dim prismatic or rod-shaped element, the sarcous element of Boioman ; (2) a thin bridge, which joins the sarcous element to (3) a dark granule. Then again another thin bridge joining the same granule to the next sarcous element, and so on. When these fibrillae are collected together into columns, and the columns into muscular fibres, the appearance mentioned above is produced. The sarcous elements, when arranged side by side and almost touching each other, with very little sarcoplasm between them, represent the transverse disc. The bridges, being much thinner than the sarcous element or the dark granules, have between each other a much larger amount of sarcoplasm, and this gives to this part the trans- parent appearance of the lateral disc. And, lastly, the granules joined edge to edge in a row present the appearance of a membrane, which represents the inter- mediate disc. On the muscular fibre, immediately beneath the sarcolemma, the sarcoplasm Fig. 40.—A. Portion of a medium-sized human Fig. 41.— Part of a striped muscular muscular fibre. Magnified nearly 800 diame- fibre of the water-beetle, prepared ters. B. Separated bimdles of fibrils, equally with absolute alcohol. Magnified magnified, a, a. Larger, and &, h, smaller 300 diameters. (Klein and Noble collections. c. Still smaller, d, d. The Smith.) smallest which could be detached. becomes here and there collected into small, plate-like masses. They contain oval nuclei, and are termed ' muscle corpuscles.' Finally, in the centre of each sarcous element a transparent lighter band can sometimes be discerned; this is known as the median disc of Hensen, and is due to the substance of the sarcous elements^being here thinner. This form of muscular fibre composes the whole of the voluntary muscles, all the muscles of the ear, those of the larynx, pharynx, tongue, the upper half of the oesophagus, the heart and the walls of the large veins at the point where they open into it. The fibres of the heart, however, differ very remarkably from those of other striped muscles. They are smaller by one-third, and their transverse strias are by no means so distinct. The fibres are made up of distinct quadran- gular cells joined end to end (fig. 42). Each cell contains a clear oval nucleus, situated near the centre of the cell. The extremities of the cells have a tendency I to branch or divide, the subdivisions uniting with offsets from other cells, and ihus producing an anastomosis of the fibres (fig. 42). The connective tissue D 2