25 BONE the lacunae, and the canaliculi—may be seen in any smgle Haversian system, forming a circular district round a central, Haversian, canal. Between these circular systems, filling in the irregular intervals which are left between them, are other lamellae, with their lacunae and canaliculi, running in various directions, but more or less curved (fig. 27). These are termed interstitial lamellae. Again, other lamellae, for the most part found on the surface of the bone, are arranged con- centrically to the circumference of bone, constituting, as it were, a single Haversian system of the whole bone, of which the medullary cavity would represent the Haversian canal. These latter lamellae are termed circdimferential, or by some authors primary or fundamental lamellae, to distinguish them from those laid down around the axis of the Haversian canals, which are then termed secondary or special lamellse. The Haversian canals, seen as round holes in a transverse section of bone at or about the centre of each Haversian system, may be demonstrated to be true canals, if a longitudinal section is made, as in fig. 29. It will then be seen that these round holes are tubes cut across, which run parallel with the longitudinal axis Fig. 27.---Transverse section of compact tissue of bone. Magnified about 150 diameters. (Sharpey.) of the bone for a short distance, and then branch and communicate. They vary considerably in size, some being as large as -^^-^ of an inch in diameter ; the average size being, however, about of an inch. Near the medullary cavity the canals are larger than those near the surface of the bone. Each canal, as a rule, contains two blood-vessels, a small artery and vein ; the larger ones also contain a small quantity of delicate connective tissue, with branched cells, the processes of which communicate with the branched processes of certain bone-cells in the substance of the bone. Those canals near the surface of the bone open upon it by minute orifices, and those near the medullary cavity open in the same way into this space, so that the whole of the bone is permeated by a system of blood-vessels running- through the bony canals in the centre of the Haversian systems. The lamellce are thin plates of bone-tissue encircling the central canal, and might be compared, for the sake of illustration, to a number of sheets of paper pasted one over another around a central hollow cylinder. After macerating a piece of bone in dilute mineral acid, these lamellae may be stripped off in a longitu- dinal direction as thin films. If one of these is examined with a high power under the microscope it will be found to be composed of a finely reticular structure, present- ing the appearance of lattice-work made up of very slender, transparent fibres, decussating obliquely, and coalescing at the points of intersection so as to form an exceedingly delicate network. In many places the various lamellae may be seen to