836 OEGANS OF SENSE from one another are continuous with the membranous processes which separate the bundles of nerve-fibres. One of these openings, larger than the rest, occupies the centre of the lamella; it is called the j^oriis opticus, and transmits the arteria centralis retinae to the interior of the eyeball. Around the cribriform lamella are numerous small apertures for the transmission of the ciliary vessels and nerves. In front, the sclerotic is continuous with the cornea by direct continuity of tissue, but the opaque sclerotic overlaps the cornea rather more on its outer than on its inner surface. Structure.—The sclerotic is formed of white fibrous tissue intermixed with fine elastic fibres, and of flattened connective-tissue corpuscles, some of which are pigmented, contained in cell-spaces between the fibres. These fibres are aggre- gated into bundles, which are arranged chiefly in a longitudinal direction. It yields gelatin on boiling. Its vessels are not numerous, the capillaries being of small size, uniting at long and wide intervals. The existence of nerves in it is doubtful. Fig. 487.—A horizontal section of the eyeball. (Allen.) The Cornea is the projecting transparent part of the external tunic of the eyeball, and forms the anterior sixth of the globe. It is almost circular in shape, occasionally a little broader in the transverse than in the vertical direction. It is convex anteriorly, and projects forwards from the sclerotic in the same manner that a watch-glass does from its case. Its degree of curvature varies in different individuals, and in the same individual at different periods of life, it being more prominent in youth than in advanced life, when it becomes flattened. The cornea is dense and of uniform thickness throughout ; its posterior surface is perfectly circular in outline, and exceeds the anterior surface slightly in extent, from the latter being overlapped by the sclerotic. Structure.—The cornea consists of four layers : namely, (i) several strata! of ex)ithelial cells, continuous with those of the conjunctiva ; (2) a thick central fibrous structure, the cornea irroper ; (3) a homogeneous elastic lamina; and (4)1 a single layer of epithelial cells, forming part of the lining membrane of the