191 NASAL FOSS^ two posterior nares Avith the pharynx behind. These fossae are much narrower above than below, and in the middle than at the anterior or posterior openings : their depth, which is considerable, is much greater in the middle than at either extremity. Each nasal fossa communicates with four sinuses, the frontal above, the sphenoidal behind, and the maxillary and ethmoidal on the outer wall. Each fossa also communicates with four cavities : with the orbit by the lachrymal groove, with the mouth by the anterior palatine canal, with the cranium by the olfactory foramina, and with the spheno-maxillary fossa by the spheno-palatine foramen; and they occasionally communicate with each other by an aperture in the septum. The bones entering into their formation are fourteen in number : three of the cranium, the frontal, sphenoid, and ethmoid, and all the bones of the Fig. 176.—Eoof, floor, and outer wall of left nasal fossa. face, excepting the malar and lower jaw. Each cavity is bounded by a roof, a floor, an inner and an outer wall. The upper wall, or roof (fig. 176), is long, narrow, and concave from before backwards ; it is formed in front by the nasal bones and nasal spine of the frontal, which are directed downwards and forwards; in the middle, by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, which is horizontal; and behind, by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid, and sphenoidal turbinated bones, which are directed downwards and backwards. This surface presents, from before backwards, the internal aspect of the nasal bones ; on their outer side, the suture formed between the nasal bone and the nasal process of the superior maxillary ; on their inner side, the elevated crest which receives the nasal spine of the frontal and the per- pendicular plate of the ethmoid, and articulates with its fellow of the opposite side ; whilst the surface of the bones is perforated by a few small vascular apertures, and presents the longitudinal groove for the nasal nerve : further back is the transverse suture, connecting the frontal with the nasal in front, and the ethmoid behind, the olfactory foramina and nasal slit on the under surface of the cribriform plate, and the suture between it and the sphenoid behind : quite posteriorly are