7 THE ANIMAL CELL to consist largely of similar bodies, differing, it is true, in external form, but essentially similar to an ovum. These are also cells. In the higher organisms all such cells may be defined as ' nucleated masses of protoplasm of microscopic size.' The two essentials, therefore, of an animal cell in the higher organisms are, the presence of a soft gelatinous granular material, similar to that found in the ovum, and which is usually styled 2Jrotoplas7n ; and a small spherical body embedded in it, and termed a nucleus ; * the remaining con- stituents of the ovum, viz. its limiting membrane and the solid spot contained in the nucleus, called the nucleolus, are not considered essential to the cell, and in fact many cells exist without them. Protoplasm [sarcode, blastema, germinal matter, or biojjlasm) is a proteid compound, consisting largely of muco-globulin. It also contains certain inorganic substances, as phosphorus and calcium, which latter appears to be essential to its life and function. It is of a semi-fluid, viscid consistence, and appears, sometimes^ either as a hyaline substance, homogeneous and clear, or as a granular substance, consisting of minute molecules embedded in a transparent matrix. These molecules are regarded by some as adventitious material taken in from without, and often probably of a fatty nature, since they are frequently soluble in ether. In most I cells, however, protoplasm shows a more definite structure, consisting of minute striae or fibrils, arranged in a clear transparent matrix, or a honeycombed reticulum, containing in its interstices a homogeneous substance. Protoplasm is insoluble in water, coagulates at 130° Fahr., and has a great affinity for certain staining reagents, as logwood or carmine. The most striking characteristics of protoplasm are its vital properties of motion and nutrition. By motion is meant the power which protoplasm has of changing its shape and position by some internal power in itself, which enables it to thrust out from its main body an irregular process, into which the whole of the protoplasmic substance is gradually drawn, so that the mass comes to occupy a new position. This, on account of its resemblance to the movements observed in the Amoeba or Proteus animalcule, has been termed ' amoeboid movement.' Ciliary movement, or the vibration of hair-like processes from the surface of any structure, may also be regarded as a variety of the motion with which protoplasm is endowed. Nutrition is the power which protoplasm has of attracting to itself the materials of growth from surrounding matter. When any foreign particle comes in contact with the protoplasmic substance, it becomes incorporated in it, by being enwrapped by one or more processes projected from the parent mass and enclosed by them. AVhen thus taken up, it may remain in the substance of the protoplasm for some time without change, and finally may be extruded again. The Nucleus is a minute body, embedded in the protoplasm, and usually of a spherical or oval form, its size having little relation to the size of the cell. It is usually surrounded by a well-defined wall, the nuclear membrane, and is regarded as a portion of the protoplasmic substance, set apart for the purposes of reproduc- tion. The nuclear contents, known as the nuclear substance, is composed of a stroma or network and an interstitial substance, the relative amount of the two varying in different nuclei. In the adult nuclei, and especially in those about to divide, the network is exceedingly well-developed, whilst in the young nuclei it is but ill-formed, and is represented only by short bands or fibrils connecting irregular masses. In adult and in resting nuclei the fibres of the nuclear network stain very readily with certain dyes; they are therefore named Chromatin ; while the insterstitial substance does not stain readily, and is hence called Acliromatin. The nuclear substance differs chemically from ordinary protoplasm in containing j nuclein, in its power of resisting the action of acids and alkalies, in its imbibing more intensely the stain of carmine, hgematoxylin, &c., and in its remaining * In certain lower forms of life, masses of protoplasm without any nucleus have been described by Huxley and others, as cells.