777 BRACHIAL PLEXUS from the fifth. It descends to the root of the neck, running obliquely across the front of the Scalenus anticus, passes over the first part of the subclavian artery, between it and the subclavian vein, and, as it enters the chest, crosses the internal mammary artery near its origin. Within the chest, it descends nearly vertically in front of the root of the lung, and by the side of the pericardium, between it and the mediastinal portion of the pleura, to the Diaphragm, where it divides into branches, which separately pierce that muscle, and are distributed to its under surface. The two phrenic nerves differ in their length, and also in their relations at the upper part of the thorax. The right nerve is situated more deeply, and is shorter and more vertical in direction than the left; it lies on the outer side of the right vena innominata and superior vena cava. The left nerve is rather longer than the right, from the inclination of the heart to the left side, and from the Diaphragm being lower on this than on the opposite side. At the upper part of the thorax, it crosses in front of the arch of the aorta to the root of the lung. Each nerve supplies filaments to the pericardium and pleura, and near the chest is joined by a filament from the sympathetic, and, occasionally, by one from the union of the descendens hypoglossi with the spinal nerves : this filament is found, according to Swan, only on the left side. It is also usually connected by a filament with the nerve to the Subclavius muscle. Branches have been described as passing to the peritoneum. From the right nerve, one or two filaments pass to join in a small ganglion with phrenic branches of the solar plexus : and branches from this ganglion are distributed to the hepatic plexus, the suprarenal capsule, and inferior vena cava. From the left nerve, filaments pass to join the phrenic plexus of the sympathetic, but without any ganglionic enlargement. Deep Branches of the Cervical Plexus. External Series Communicating branches.—The deep branches of the external series of the cervical plexus communicate with the spinal accessory nerve, in the substance of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, in the occipital triangle, and beneath the Trapezius. Muscular branches are distributed to the Sterno-mastoid, Trapezius, Levator anguli scapulaB, and Scalenus medius. The branch for the Sterno-mastoid is derived from the second cervical, the Trapezius and Levator anguli scapulaB receive branches from the third and fourth. The Scalenus medius is supplied sometimes from the third, sometimes the fourth, and occasionally from both nerves. The Brachial Plexus (fig. 458) The Brachial Plexus is formed by the union of the anterior branches of the four lower cervical and the greater part of the first dorsal nerves, receiving also a fasciculus from the fourth cervical nerve. It extends from the lower part of the side of the neck to the axilla. It is very broad and presents little of a plexiform arrangement at its commencement. It is narrow opposite the clavicle, becomes broad, and forms a more dense interlacement in the axilla, and divides opposite the coracoid process into numerous branches for the supply of the upper limb. The nerves which form the plexus are all similar in size, and their mode of communication is subject to considerable variation, so that no one plan can be given as applying to every case. The following appears, however, to be the most constant arrangement. The fifth and sixth cervical unite together soon after their exit from the intervertebral foramina to form a common trunk. The eighth cervical and first dorsal also unite to form one trunk. So that the nerves forming the plexus, as they lie on the Scalenus medius, external to the outer border of the Scalenus anticus, are blended into three trunks: an outer one formed by the junction of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves; a middle one, consisting of the