THE THORAX 962 surface of the left ventricle; and others entering in front pass backwards to join the fibres on the posterior wall of the left ventricle. The septum therefore consists of three varieties of fibres : viz. annular fibres special to the left ventricle; ascending fibres, derived from both ventricles and ascending through the septum to the central fibro-cartilage ; and decussating fibres derived from the anterior wall of one ventricle and passing to the posterior wall of the other ventricle, or from the posterior wall of the right ventricle and passing to the anterior wall of the left. In addition to these fibres, there are a considerable number which appear to encircle both ventricles and which pass across the septum without turning into it. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the heart are the left or anterior and right or posterior coronary (page 522). The veins accompany the arteries, and terminate in the right auricle. They are, the anterior, posterior, left and right cardiac veins, the right or small, and the left or great, coronary sinuses and the venae cordis minimae {vence Tliehesii) (page 659). The lymphatics terminate in the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. The nerves are derived from the cardiac plexuses, which are formed partly from the cranial nerves, and partly from the sympathetic. They are freely distributed both on the surface and in the substance of the heart, the separate filaments being furnished with small ganglia. Surface Form.—In order to show the extent of the heart in relation to the front of the chest, draw a line from the lower border of the second left costal cartilage, one inch from the sternum, to the upper border of the third right costal cartilage, half an inch from the sternum. This represents the base line, or upper limit of the organ. Take a point an inch and a half below, and three-quarters of an inch internal to the left nipple, that is, about three and a half inches to the left of the median line of the body. This represents the apex of the heart. Draw a line from this apex point, with a slight convexity downwards, to the junction of the seventh right costal cartilage to the sternum. This represents the lower limit of the heart. Join tlie right extremity of the first line—that is, the base line—with the right extremity of this line—that is, to the seventh right chondro-sternal joint—with a slight curve outwards, so that it projects about an inch and a half from the middle line of the sternum. Lastly, join the left extremity of the base line and the apex point by a line curved slightly to the left. The position of the various orifices is as follows : viz. the pulmonary orifice is situated in the upper angle formed by the articulation of the third left costal cartilage with the sternum ; the aortic orifice is a little below and internal to this, behind the left border of the sternum, close to the articulation of the third left costal cartilage to this bone. The left auriculo-ventricular opening is behind the sternum, rather to the left of the median line and opposite the fourth costal cartilages. The right auriculo-ventricular opening is a little lower, opposite the fourth interspace and in the middle line of the body. A portion of the area of the heart thus mapped out is uncovered by lung, and therefore gives a dull note on percussion ; the remainder, being overlapped by the lung, gives a more or less resonant note. The former is known as the area of superficial cardiac dulness; the latter, as the area of deep cardiac dulness. The area of superficial cardiac dulness is included between a line drawn from the centre of the sternum between the fourth costal cartilages to the apex of the heart, and a line drawn from the same point down the lower third of the middle line of the sternum. Below, this area merges into the dulness which corresponds to the liver. Dr. Latham lays down the following rule as a sufficient practical guide for the definition of the portion of the heart which is uncovered by lung or pleura : ' Make a circle of two inches in diameter round a point midway between the nipple and the end of the sternum;' that is, the gladiolus. Peculiakities in the Vascular System of the Fcetus The chief peculiarities in the heart of the foetus are the direct communication between the two auricles through the foramen ovale, and the large size of the Eustachian valve. There are also several minor peculiarities. Thus, the position of the heart is vertical until the fourth month, when it commences to assume an oblique direction. Its size is also very considerable as compared with the body, the proportion at the second month being i to 50 ; at birth it is as i to 120 ; whilst in the adult the average is about i to 160. At an early period of foetal life the auricular portion of the heart is larger than the ventricular, the right auricle being more capacious than the left; but towards birth the ventricular portion becomes