977 THE TRACHEA The transverse fibres (Trachealis muscle, Todd and Bowman), the most internal, form a thin layer, which extends transversely between the ends of the cartilages and the intervals between them at the posterior part of the trachea. The muscular fibres are of the unstriped variety. The elastic fibres form a complete lining to the entire cylinder of the trachea, external to the mucous membrane : they are most abundant at the posterior part of the tube between the extremities of the rings, where they are collected into distinct longitudinal bundles, and are especially numerous about the bifurcation of the trachea. They may be traced downwards as a continuous membrane to the ultimate ramifications of the bronchial tubes. The fibres are contained in a loose submucous tissue, which contains numerous mucous glands. The Mucous Membrane is continuous above with that of the larynx, and below with that of the bronchi. Microscopically, it presents a well-marked basement membrane, supporting a layer of columnar ciliated epithelium, between the deeper ends of which are smaller round or elongated cells. It contains a large amount of lymphoid tissue and some tracheal glands. The Tracheal Glands are found in great abundance at the posterior part of the trachea. They are small, flattened, ovoid bodies, placed upon the outer surface of the fibrous layer ; each is furnished with an excretory duct, which pierces the fibrous and muscular layers, and opens on the surface of the mucous membrane. Some glands of smaller size are also found at the sides of the trachea, between the layers of fibrous tissue connecting the rings, and others immediately beneath the mucous coat. The secretion from these glands serves to lubricate the inner surface of the trachea. Vessels and Nerves.— The trachea is supplied with blood by the inferior thyroid arteries. The veins terminate in the thyroid venous plexus. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and its recurrent branches, and from the sympa- thetic. Surface Form.—In the middle line of the neck, some of the cartilages of the larynx can be readily distinguished. In the receding angle below the chin, the hyoid bone can Fig. 575.—Surgical anatomy of laryngo-tracheal region. In the infant. Th/jroid body {isthmus)