ARTICULATIONS 300 forms, with the superior intervertebral notch, an opening for the passage of the vertebral artery and suboccipital nerve. It is in relation, behind, with the Recti postici minores and Obliqui superiores ; in front, with the dura mater of the spinal canal, to which it is intimately adherent. The Lateral Ligaments are strong fibrous bands, directed obliquely upwards and inwards, attached above to the jugular process of the occipital bone; below, to the base of the transverse process of the atlas. The Capsular Ligaments surround the condyles of the occipital bone, and connect them with the articular processes of the atlas; they consist of thin and loose capsules, which enclose the synovial membrane of the articulation. Synovial Membranes.—There are two synovial membranes in this articulation : one lining the inner surface of each of the capsular ligaments. These occasionally communicate with that between the posterior surface of the odontoid process and the transverse ligament. Actions.—The movements permitted in this joint are flexion and extension, which give rise to the ordinary forward and backward nodding of the head, besides Fig. 230.—Articulation between odontoid process and atlas. slight lateral motion to one or the other side. When either of these actions is carried beyond a slight extent, the whole of the cervical portion of the spine assists in its production. Flexion is mainly produced by the action of the Rectus capitis anticus major et minor and the Sterno-mastoid muscles; extension by the Rectus capitis posticus major et minor, the Superior oblique, the Complexus, Splenius, and upper fibres of the Trapezius. The Recti laterales are concerned in the lateral movement, assisted by the Trapezius, Splenius, Complexus, Sterno- mastoid and the Recti laterales of the same side, all acting together. According to Cruveilhier, there is a slight motion of rotation in this joint. IV. Aeticulation of the Axis with the Occipital Bone Occipito-axial. Three Odontoid. To expose these ligaments, the spinal canal should be laid open by removing the posterior arch of the atlas, the laminae and spinous process of the axis, and the portion of the occipital bone behind the foramen magnum, as seen in fig. 231. The Occipito-axial Ligament {aij]_mratus ligamentosus colli) is situated within the spinal canal. It is a broad and strong ligamentous band, which covers the odontoid process and its ligaments, and appears to be a prolongation upwards of the posterior common ligament of the spine. It is attached, below, to the posterior surface of the body of the axis, and, becoming expanded as it ascends, is inserted into the basilar groove of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen magnum, where it becomes blended with the dura mater of the skull. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the transverse ligament, by its posterior surface with the dura mater.