48 GENEKAL ANATOMY In structure all ganglia are essentially similar (fig. 56), consisting of the same structural elements as the other nervous centres—viz. a collection of vesicular nervous matter traversed by tubular and gelpiinous nerve-fibres. The vesicular nervous matter consists of nerve or ganglion cells, most of which appear to be free and of a round or oval form; these are more especially seated near the surface of the gan- glion ; others are unipolar, bipolar, or multipolar, and their caudate processes give origin to nerve-fibres. In the ganglion the nerve-cells are usually enclosed in a transparent capsule with nuclei on its inner surface. The nerve-fibres on en- tering the ganglion lay aside their perineurium, which becomes con- tinuous with the capsule. Some of the fibres run through the gan- glion without being connected with the cells, others arise from the cau- date processes of the cells. A remarkable modification of the bipolar nerve-cell is found in the sympathetic ganglia, especially in the frog, but also in some few instances in the mammal. The cells are pear-shaped, and from the narrovNT end two processes arise: one a straight axis-cylinder process, into which the substance of the ganglion is prolonged; the other, a thin fibre, winds spirally round the straight fibre, and then passes away from the cell in the opposite direction and becomes invested with a medullary sheath and neurilemma of its own, and constitutes a medullated fibre, while the straight axis-cylinder process forms a non-medullated fibre. THE VASCULAR SYSTEM The Vascular System, exclusive of its central organ, the heart, is divided into four classes of vessels: the arteries, capillaries, veins, and lymphatics; the minute structure of which we will now proceed briefly to describe, referring the reader to the body of the work for all that is necessary in the details of their ordinary anatomy. Structure of Arteries (fig. 57).—The arteries are composed of three coats: internal or endothelial coat {tunica intima of Kolliker) ; middle muscular coat (tunica media) ; and external cellular coat [tunica adventitia). The two inner coats together are very easily separated from the external, as by the ordinary operation of tying a ligature on an artery. If a fine string be tied forcibly upon an artery and then taken off, the external coat will be found un- divided, but the internal coats are divided in the track of the ligature and can easily be further dissected from the outer coat. The inner coat can be separated from the middle by a little maceration, or it may be stripped off in small pieces ; but, on account of its friability, it cannot be separated as a complete membrane. It is ! a fine, transparent, colourless structure which is highly elastic, and is commonly corrugated into longitudinal wrinkles. The inner coat consists of—i. A layer of, pavement-epithelium, the cells of which are polygonal, oval, or fusiform, and have very distinct round or oval nuclei. This endothelium, as it is now generally called, Fig. 56.—Section through a microscoi^ic ganglion. Magnified 300 diameters. (Klein and Noble Smith.) c. Capsule of the ganglion, n. Nerve-fibres passing out of the ganglion. The nerve-fibres which entered the ganglion are not represented. The nerve-fibres are ordinary medullated fibres, but the details of their structure are not shown, owing to the low magnifying power. The ganglion-cells are invested by a special capsule, lined by a few nuclei, which are "here repre- sented as if contained in the capsule.