DIVISIONS OF THE BRAIN 687 nerves derived from the motor division of the fifth, the facial, and the spinal accessory nerves, are found in the arachnoid. The cerehro-spinal fluid fills up the subarachnoid space. It is a clear, limpid fluid, having a saltish taste, and a slightly alkaline reaction. According to Lassaigne, it consists of 98*5 parts of water, the remaining 1-5 per cent, being solid matters, animal and saline. It varies in quantity, being most abundant in old persons, and is quickly reproduced. Its chief use is probably to afford mechanical protection to the nervous centres, and to prevent the effects of concussions communicated from without. PiA Matee The pia mater is a vascular membrane, and derives its blood from the internal carotid and vertebral arteries. It consists of a minute plexus of blood-vessels, held together by an extremely fine areolar tissue. It invests the entire surface of the brain, dipping down between the convolutions and laminae, and is prolonged into the interior, forming the velum interpositum and choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. Upon the surfaces of the hemispheres, where it covers the grey matter of the convolutions, it is very vascular, and gives off from its inner surface a multitude of minute vessels, which extend perpendicularly for some distance into the cerebral substance. At the base of the brain, in the situation of the anterior and posterior perforated spaces, a number of long straight vessels are given off, which pass through the white matter to reach the grey substance in the interior. On the cerebellum the membrane is more delicate, and the vessels from its inner surface are shorter. Upon the crura cerebri and pons Varolii its characters are altogether changed; it here presents a dense fibrous structure, marked only by slight traces of vascularity. According to Fohmann and Arnold, this membrane contains numerous lymphatic vessels. Its nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and also from the third, fifth, sixth, facial, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory. They accompany the branches of the arteries. Divisions of the Brain The brain {enceplialon) is that portion of the cerebro-spinal axis which is con- tained in the cranial cavity. It is divided into four principal parts: viz. the cerebrum, the cerebellum, the pons Varolii, and the medulla oblongata. The cerebrum forms the largest portion of the enceplialon, and occupies a considerable part of the cavity of the cranium, resting in the anterior and middle fossffi of the base of the skull, and separated posteriorly from the cerebellum by the tentorium cerebelli. About the middle of its under surface is a narrow constricted portion, part of which, the cmra cerebri, is continued onwards into the pons Varolii below, and through it to the medulla oblongata and spinal cord ; whilst another portion, the crura cerebelli, passes down into the cerebellum. The cerebellum (little-brain, or after-brain) is situated in the inferior occipital foss«, being separated from the under surface of the occipital lobes of the cerebrum by the tentorium cerebelli. It is connected to the rest of the encephalon by means of connecting bands, called crura: of these, two ascend to the cerebrum, two descend to the medulla oblongata, and two blend together in front, forming the pons Varolii. The pons Varolii is that portion of the encephalon which rests upon the upper part of the basilar process of the occipital bone and body of the sphenoid bone. It constitutes the bond of union of the various segments above named, receiving, above, the crura from the cerebrum ; at the sides, the crura from the cerebellum ; and below, the medulla oblongata. The medulla oblongata extends from the lower border of the pons Varolii to the upper part of the spinal cord. It lies beneath the cerebellum, resting on the lower part of the basilar groove of the occipital bone.