483 OF THE LOWEE EXTREMITY action of the muscle. The first sHp is attached to the contiguous margins of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae ; the last to the contiguous margins of the fourth and fifth lumbar, and to the intervertebral substance. From these points the muscle passes down across the brim of the pelvis, and, diminishing gradually in size, passes beneath Poupart's ligament, and terminates in a tendon, which, after receiving the fibres of the Iliacus, is inserted into the lesser trochanter of the femur. Relations.—In the lumbar region. By its anterior surface, which is placed behind the peritoneum, with the iliac fascia, the ligamentum arcuatum internum, the kidney, Psoas parvus, renal vessels, ureiier, spermatic vessels, genito-crural nerve, and the colon. By its jjosterior surface, with the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and the Quadratus lumborum, from which it is separated by the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia. The anterior crural nerve is at first situated in the substance of the muscle, and emerges from its outer border at the lower part. The lumbar plexus is situated in the posterior part of the substance of the muscle. By its inner side, the muscle is in relation with the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, the lumbar arteries, the ganglia of the sympathetic nerve, and their branches of communication with the spinal nerves ; the lumbar glands ; the vena cava inferior on the right, and the aorta on the left side, and along the brim of the pelvis with the external iliac artery. In the thigh it is in relation, in front, with the fascia lata ; behind, with the capsular ligament of the hip, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa, which frequently communicates with the cavity of the joint through an opening of variable size ; by its inner border, with the Pectineus and the femoral artery, which slightly overlaps it; by its outer border, with the anterior crural nerve and Iliacus muscle. The Psoas parvus is a long slender muscle, placed in front of the Psoas magnus. It arises from the sides of the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae and from the intervertebral substance between them. It forms a small flat muscular bundle, which terminates in a long flat tendon, inserted into the ilio-pectineal eminence and, by its outer border, into the iliac fascia. This muscle is often absent, and, according to Cruveilhier, sometimes double. Relations.—It is covered by the peritoneum, and, at its origin, by the ligamentum arcuatum internum ; it rests on the Psoas magnus. The Iliacus is a flat, triangular muscle, which fills up the whole of the iliac fossa. It arises from the upper two-thirds of this fossa, and from the inner margin of the crest of the ilium; behind, from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and base of the sacrum ; in front, from the anterior superior and anterior inferior spinous processes of the ilium, from the notch between them, and by a few fibres from the capsule of the hip-joint. The fibres converge to be inserted into the outer side of the tendon of the Psoas, some of them being prolonged into the oblique line which extends from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera.* Relations.—Within the pelvis : by its anterior surface, with the iliac fascia, which separates the muscle from the peritoneum, and with the external cutaneous nerve ; on the right side, with the caecum ; on the left side, with the sigmoid flexure of the colon. By its posterior surface, with the iliac fossa. By its inner border, with the Psoas magnus, and anterior crural nerve. In the thigh, it is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the fascia lata, Rectus, and Sartorius ; behind, with the capsule of the hip-joint, a synovial bursa common to it and the Psoas magnus being interposed. Nerves.—The Psoas magnus, and the Psoas parvus when it exists, are supplied by the anterior branches of the lumbar nerves ; the Iliacus by the anterior crural. Actions.—The Psoas and Iliacus muscles, acting from above, flex the thigh upon the pelvis, and, at the same time, rotate the femur outwards, from the obliquity of their insertion into the inner and back part of that bone. Acting from below, the femur being fixed, the muscles of both sides bend the lumbar * The Psoas and Iliacus are sometimes regarded as a single muscle, the Ilio-psoas, having two heads of origin and a single insertion. 112