SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE 165 tooth. This marks out the intermaxillary, or incisive bone, which in some animals exists permanently as a separate piece. It includes the whole thickness of the alveolus, the corresponding part of the floor of the nose and the anterior nasal spine, and contains the sockets of the incisor teeth. One or two small foramina in the alveolar margin behind the incisor teeth are occasionally seen in the adult, almost constantly in the young subject. They are called the incisive foramina, and transmit vessels and nerves to the incisor teeth. The u;pper surface is concave from side to side, smooth, and forms part of the floor of the nose. It presents the upper orifices of the foramina of Stenson and Scarpa, the former being on each side of the middle line, the latter being situated in the intermaxil- lary suture, and therefore not visible unless the two bones are placed in apposition. The outer border of the palate process is incorporated with the rest of the bone. The inner border is thicker in front than behind, and is raised above into a ridge, the nasal crest, which, with the corresponding ridge in the opposite bone, forms a groove for the reception of the vomer. In front, this crest rises to a considerable height, and this portion is named the incisor crest. The anterior margin is bounded by the thin, concave border of the opening of the nose, prolonged forwards internally into a sharp process, forming, with a similar process of the opposite bone, the a7i^e/7'or7i«saZs^;r;ie. HYiq posterior -pm. 157. Development of border is serrated for articulation with the horizontal plate of the palate-bone. Development.—This bone commences to ossify at a very early period, and ossification proceeds in it with gi'eat rapidity, so that it is difficult to ascertain with certainty its precise number of centres. It appears, however, probable that it is ossified by five primary and two secondary centres. The primary centres appear about the seventh or eighth week ; first, one each for the facial surface, the posterior part of the alveolus, and the orbital plate, and a few days later one for the palate process, and one for the front part of the alveolus, which carries the incisor teeth, and which corresponds to the pre-maxillary bone of the lower animals. All these, except the last, speedily fuse, and the two secondary centres, one for the nasal process and the other for the malar process, appear and join the rest of the bone. By the tenth week the bone consists of two portions : the greater part of the bone formed of six out of the seven centres and the pre-maxillary portion. The suture between these two portions on the palate persists till middle life, but is not to be seen on the facial surface. This is believed by Callender to be due to the fact that the front wall of the sockets of the incisive teeth is not formed by the pre-maxillary bone, but by an outgrowth from the facial part of the superior maxilla. The antrum appears as a shallow groove on the inner surface of the bone at an earlier period than any of the other nasal sinuses, its development commencing about the fourth month of foetal life. The sockets for the teeth are formed by the growing downwards of two plates from the dental groove, which subsequently becomes divided by partitions jutting across from the one to the other. Articulations.—With nine bones : two of the cranium, the frontal and ethmoid, and seven of the face—viz. the nasal, malar, lachrymal, inferior turbinated, palate, vomer, and its fellow of the opposite side. Sometimes it articulates with the orbital plate of the sphenoid, and sometimes mth its external pterygoid plate. Attachment of Muscles.—To twelve : the Orbicularis palpebrarum, ObKquus oculi inferior, Levator labii superioris alaeque nasi. Levator labii superioris proprius. Levator anguli oris. Compressor nasi. Depressor alae nasi, Dilatator naris posterior, Masseter, Buccinator, Internal pterygoid, and Orbicularis oris. superior maxillary bone. At birth. Inferior Surface.