733 FOURTH VEXTRICLE enrelope. Between the cells is a fine nerve-network, with whic-h the processes of the cells are supposed to be continuous. 2. The independent centres of grey matter in the Fig. 437. A corpuscle of Pnr- cereheUum are : (i) the corpus dentatum ; (2) the roof nuclei of Stilling. The corpus dentatum or ganglion of tlie cere- helium is situated a little to the inner side of the centre of the stem of white matter. It consists of an open bag or capsule of grey matter, the section of which presents a grey dentated outline, open at its anterior part. It is surrounded by white fibres ; white fibres are also contained in its interior which issue from it to join the superior peduncles. The roof nuclei of Stilling are two small grey masses, situated at the anterior end of the superior vermiform process, and projecting into the valve of Yieussens, so as to assist in the formation of the roof of the fourth ventricle. These can only be seen in microscopic preparations. Fourth Venteicle (fig. 430) The Fourth. Ventricle, or ventricle of the cerehelhtm, is the space between the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons in front and the cerebellum behind. It is lozenge- or diamond-shaped ; that is to say, it is composed of two triangles, with their bases opposed to each other. The lower triangle is formed by the divergence of the funiculi graciles and the restiform bodies of the medulla oblongata on either side. These columns pass upwards and outwards at an acute angle to the lateral hemispheres of the cerebellum, leaving by their divergence a triangular space, which forms the lower half of the fourth ventricle. In like manner the upper triangle is formed by the divergence of the superior peduncles (processus e cerebello ad testes) of the cerebellum. These crura as they emerge from the corpora quadrigemina are in contact by their lateral margins, but they gradually diverge, passing downwards, backwards, and outwards, to reach the cerebellum, thus enclosing a triangular space, which forms the upper half of the fourth ventricle. This cavity is therefore bounded laterally by the processus e cerebello ad testes above, and by the diverging funiculi graciles and restiform bodies below. It presents four angles. The upper angle reaches as high as the upper border of the pons; it presents the lower opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius, by which this ventricle communicates with the third ventricle. The lower angle is on a level with the lower border of the olivary body, and presents a minute opening— the aperture of the central canal of the spinal cord. At its lateral angles the fourth ventricle is extended for a short distance between the side of the medulla and the cerebellum, where these two structures come in contact. The roof is arched, and is formed in the upper triangle by part of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum and the valve of Vieussens (superior medullary velum) —a lamina of white matter streaked with grey, which bridges across from one superior peduncle to the other. The roof of the lower half is formed by a reflection of pia mater passing from the under surface of the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum to the lower part of the medulla oblongata. Above this is the inferior vermiform process itself. This pia-matral covering is lined on its under or ventricular surface by a layer of epithelium, which is continuous with that lining the sides and base of the cavity, and is perforated by a hole, the foramen of Majendie, by which the cavity of the ventricle communicates with the sub- arachnoidean space. The floor is formed by the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons. kinje, with its dichotom- ously branched processes.