39 NERVOUS TISSUE similar granular material to that found within the corpuscle. Some of the pro- cesses terminate in fine, transparent fibres, which become lost among the other elements of the nervous tissue; others may be traced until, after losing their granular appearance, they become continuous with an ordinary nerve-fibre. Fig. 47. — Human nerve-tubes. The white or fibroas nerve-substance or nerve-fihre is found universally in the nervous cords, and also constitutes a great part of the brain and spinal cord. The fibres of which it consists are of two kinds, the meduUated or luhite fibres, and the non-medullated or grey fibres. The meduUated fibres form the white part of the brain and spinal cord, and also the greater part of the cerebro-spinal nerves, and give to these structures their opaque, white aspect. When perfectly fresh they appear to be homo- geneous ; but soon after removal from the body they present, when examined by transmitted light, a double outline or contour, as if con- sisting of two parts. The central portion is named the axis-cylinder of Purkinje; around this is a sort of sheath of fatty material, named the luliite substance of Schioann., which gives to the fibre its double contour, and the whole is enclosed in a delicate membrane, the neuri- lemma,^ primitive sheath, or nucleated sheath of Schivann (^g. The axis-cylinder is the essential part of the nerve-fibre, and is always present; the other parts, the medullary sheath and the neurilemma, being occasionally absent, especially at the origin and termination of the nerve-fibre. It undergoes no interruption from its origin in the nerve-centre to its peripheral termination, and must be regarded as a direct prolongation of a nerve-cell. It constitutes about one-half or one-third of the nerve-tube, the white substance being greater in proportion in the nerves than in the central organs. It is perfectly transparent, and is therefore indistinguishable in a perfectly fresh and natural state of the nerve. It is described by Kolliker as being distinguished from the white substance by the fact that, though soft and flexible, it is not fluid and viscid, but firm and elastic, somewhat like coagulated albumen, with which it appears for the most part also to agree in its chemical characters. When examined under a high power it presents the appearance of longitudinal striation, as if composed of very fine, homogeneous fibrillar, held together in a faintly granular interstitial material. Occasionally at its termination the axis-cylinder of a fibre may be seen to break up into exceedingly fine fibrillse, confirming the view of its fibrillar structure. These fibrillffi have been termed the primitive fihrillce of Schultze. The axis-cylinder is said to be enveloped in a very delicate, hyaline sheath, which separates it from the white matter of Schwann. The medullary sheath or ivhite matter of Schvjann is regarded as being a fatty matter in a fluid state, which insulates and protects the essential part of the nerve—the axis-cylinder. The white matter varies in thickness to a very considerable extent, in some forming a layer of extreme thinness, so as to be scarcely distinguishable, in others forming about one-half the nerve-tube. The size of the nerve-fibres, which varies from 12^00" 2W00 0^ inch, depends mainly upon the amount of the white substance, though the axis- cylinder also varies in size within certain limits. The white matter of Schwann does not always form a continuous sheath to the axis-cylinder, but undergoes * In older histological works the term ' neurilemma ' is used to designate the fibrous envelope of the whole nerve, now called ' perineurium.' Magnified 350 times. Three of them are fine, one of which is varicose, one of middling thick- ness, and with a simple contour ; and three thick, two of which are double-contoured, and one with grumous contents.