1036 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION from the bladder by the utero-vesical pouch. Its posterior surface is convex transversely, covered by peritoneum throughout, and separated from the rectum by some convolutions of the intestine. Its lateral ma,rgins are concave, and give attachment to the Fallopian tube above, the round ligament below and in front of this, and the ligament of the ovary behind and between both of these structures. The cervix is the lower constricted segment of the uterus ; around its circum- ference is attached the upper end of the vagina, which extends upwards a greater distance behind than in front. The supravaginal portion is not covered by peritoneum in front; a pad of cellular tissue is interposed between it and the bladder. Behind, the peritoneum is extended over it. The vaginal portion is the rounded lower end projecting into the vagina. On its surface is a small aperture, the os uteri, generally circular in Fig. 613.—Douglas's pouch. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Royal Colle<ife of Surgeons.) £xt. duzc art. shape, but sometimes oval, or almost linear. The margin of the opening is, in the absence of past parturition or disease, quite smooth. Ligaments.—The ligaments of the uterus are eight in number : one anterior; one posterior ; two lateral or broad; two sacro-uterine—all these being formed of peritoneum ; and, lastly, two round ligaments. The anterior ligament (vesico-uterine) is reflected on to the bladder from the front of the uterus, at the junction of the supravaginal cervix and body. The posterior ligament (recto-uterine) passes from the posterior wall of the uterus over the upper fifth of the vagina, and thence on to the rectum and sacrum. It thus forms a pouch called Douglas's pouch (fig. 613), the boundaries of which are, in front, the posterior wall of the uterus, the supravaginal cervix, and the upper fifth of the vagina ; behind, the rectum and sacrum ; above, the small intestine ; and, laterally, the sacro-uterine ligaments.