FIFTH. INFEEIOR MAXILLARY DIVISION 749 long and slender branch, which passes inwards to enter the deep surface of the Internal pterygoid muscle. The anterior and smaller division, which receives nearly the whole of the motor root, divides into branches, which supply the muscles of mastication. They are, the masseteric, deep temporal, buccal, and external pterygoid. The masseteric branch passes outwards, above the External pterygoid muscle, in front of the temporo-maxillary articulation, and crosses the sigmoid notch with the masseteric artery, to the Masseter muscle, in which it ramifies nearly as far as its anterior border. It occasionally gives a branch to the Temporal muscle, and a filament to the articulation of the jaw. The deep temporal branches, tw^o in number, anterior and posterior, supply the deep surface of the Temporal muscle. The posterior branch, of small size, is placed at the back of the temporal fossa. It is sometimes joined with the masse- teric branch. The anterior branch [s reflected upwards, at the pterygoid ridge of the sphenoid, to the front of the temporal fossa. Sometimes there are three deep temporal branches, the third branch (middle deep temporal) passing outwards over the External pterygoid muscle to enter the deep surface of the Temporal muscle. The buccal branch passes forwards between the two heads of the External pterygoid, and downwards beneath the inner surface of the coronoid process of the lower jaw, or through the fibres of the Temporal muscle, to reach the surface of the Buccinator, upon which it divides into a superior and an inferior branch. It gives a branch to the External pterygoid during its passage through that muscle, and a few ascending filaments to the Temporal muscle, one of which occasionally joins with the anterior branch of the deep temporal nerve. The upper branch supplies the integument and upper part of the Buccinator muscle, joining with the facial nerve round the facial vein. The loioer branch passes forwards to the angle of the mouth ; it supplies the integument and Buccinator muscle, as well as the mucous membrane lining the inner surface of that muscle, and joins the facial nerve.* The External Pterygoid Nerve is most frequently derived from the buccal, but it may be given off separately from the anterior trunk of the nerve. It enters the muscle on its inner surface. The posterior and larger division of the inferior maxillary nerve is for the most part sensory, but receives a few filaments from the motor root. It divides into three branches : auriculo-temporal, lingual (gustatory), and inferior dental. The Auriculo-temporal Nerve generally arises by two roots, beneath which the middle meningeal artery passes. It runs backwards beneath the External ptery- goid muscle to the inner side of the neck of the lower jaw. It then turns upwards with the temporal artery, between the external ear and condyle of" the jaw, under cover of the parotid gland, and, escaping from beneath this structure, ascends over the zygoma, and divides into two temporal branches. The branches of communication are with the facial and with the otic ganglion. The branches of communication with the facial, usually two in number, pass forwards, from behind the neck of the condyle of the jaw, to join this nerve at the posterior border of the Masseter muscle. They form one of the principal branches of communication between the facial and the fifth nerve. The filaments of communication with the otic ganglion are derived from the commencement of the auriculo-temporal nerve. The branches of distribution are :— * There seems to be no reason to doubt that the branch supplying the Buccinator muscle is entirely a nerve of ordinary sensation, and that the true motor supply of this muscle is from the facial. Auricular, inferior and superior. Branches to the meatus auditorius. Temporal, anterior and posterior. Articular. Parotid.