SPINAL CORD 683 other region, and contains several distinct groups of large and variously shaped cells. In addition to this, in certain parts of the cord, other horns or projections of the grey matter may be seen on transverse section. One of these, the lateral horn, is found projecting outwards from the lateral region of the grey matter on a level with the grey commissure in the cervical and upper part of the dorsal region of the cord ; and a second, Clarke s vesicular column, is found on the inner side of the posterior horn near the grey commissure, in the upper cervical or dorsal regions, or at the point of exit of the lower lumbar nerves. The grey commissure is situated behind the white commissure, which separates it from the bottom of the anterior median fissure. The grey substance of the cord consists of—(i) nerve-fibres of variable but smaller average diameter than those of the columns; (2) nerve-cells of various Fig. 409.—Longitudinal section of the white and grey substance of the spinal cord, through the mid- dle of the lumbar enlargement. Magnified 14 diameters. Fig. 410.—Transverse section through the white matter of the spinal cord of a calf. Magnified (Klein and Noble Smith.) In the upper part are shown two isolated flattened micleated cells of the neuroglia, under a somewhat higher power than the rest. In the bulk of the figure the nerve-fibres are seen in transverse section. They are of different sizes, and possess a laminated medullary sheath surrounding the axis-cylinder; which was deeply stained in the preparation, and is here represented by a black dot. The nerve-fibres are imbedded in the neuroglia. This contains, in a matrix, which appears sometimes granular, some- times homogeneous, numerous elastic fibrils, seen here in trans- verse section as minute dots, on account of their having a course parallel to the long axis of the cord. Amongst the neuroglia are also seen two branched connective-tissue cells—neuroglia cells. An.lr Jlcots shapes and sizes, with from two to eight processes ; (3) blood-vessels and connective tissue. The nerve-fihres of the grey matter of the posterior horn are for the most part composed of a minute and dense network of minute fibrils, which is termed ' Gerlach's nerve network,' intermingled with nerves of a larger size. This net- work is continuous with the medullated fibres of the posterior nerve-roots on the one hand (Dieters), and with the branched processes of the ganglion-cells on the other (Gerlach), so that the ganglion-cells are connected with the medullated fibres of the posterior nerve-roots only indirectly through the nerve network. The arrangement of the fibres in the anterior horn of the grey matter appears to be somewhat different ; here the medullated fibres of the anterior nerve-roots are directly continuous with some of the processes of the ganglion-cells, others of the processes of the gangiion-cells communicating with Gerlach's nerve network. The nerve-cells of the grey matter are of two kinds, large branched nerve-