976 OEGANS OF VOICE AND EESPIRATION with the oesophagus ; laterally, in the neck, it is in relation with the common carotid arteries, the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid arteries, and recurrent laryngeal nerves; and, m the thorax, it lies in the space between the pleurae, having the pneumogastric nerve on each side of it. The Right Bronchus, wider, shorter, and more horizontal in direction than the left, is about an inch in length, and enters the right lung, opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra. The vena azygos major arches over it, from behind ; and the right pulmonary artery lies below, and then in front of it. The Left Bronchus is smaller, longer, and more oblique, than the right, being nearly two inches in length. It enters the root of the left lung, opposite the sixth dorsal vertebra, about an inch lower than the right bronchus. It passes beneath the arch of the aorta, crosses, in front of the oesophagus, the thoracic duct and the descending aorta, and has the left pulmonary artery lying at first above, and then in front of it. If a transverse section is made across the trachea, a short distance above its point of bifurcation, and a bird's-eye view taken of its interior (fig. 574), the septum placed at the bottom of the trachea and separating the two bronchi will be seen to occupy the left of the median line, so that any solid body dropping into the trachea would naturally be directed towards the right bronchus. This tendency is aided by the larger size of the right tube as compared with its fellow. This fact serves to explain why a foreign body in the trachea generally falls into the right bronchus.* Structure.—The trachea is composed of imperfect cartilaginous rings, fibrous membrane, muscular fibres, longitudinal yellow elastic fibres, mucous membrane, and glands. The cartilages vary from sixteen to twenty in number : each forms an imper- fect ring, Avhich surrounds about two-thirds of the cylinder of the trachea, being- imperfect behind, where the tube is completed by fibrous membrane. The cartilages are placed horizontally above each other, separated by narrow membranous intervals. They measure about two lines in depth, and half a line in thickness. Their outer surfaces are flattened, but internally they are convex, from being thicker in the middle than at the margins. Two or more of the cartilages often unite, partially or completely, and are sometimes bifurcated at their extremities. They are highly elastic, but sometimes become calcified in advanced life. In the right bronchus the cartilages vary in number from six to eight; in the left, from nine to twelve. They are shorter and narrower than those of the trachea. The peculiar cartilages are the first and the last. The first cartilage is broader than the rest, and sometimes divided at one end ; it is connected by fibrous membrane with the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, with which, or with the succeeding cartilage, it is sometimes blended. The last cartilage is thick and broad in the middle, in consequence of its lower border being prolonged into a triangular hook-shaped process, which curves down- wards and backwards between the two bronchi. It terminates on each side in an imperfect ring, which encloses the commencement of the bronchi. The cartilage above the last is somewhat broader than the rest at its centre. The fibrous membrane.—The cartilages are enclosed in an elastic fibrous membrane, which forms a double layer; one layer, the thicker of the two, passing over the outer surface of the ring, the other over the inner surface : at the upper and lower margins of the cartilages these two layers blend together to form a single membrane which connects the rings one with another. They are thus, as it were, embedded in the membrane. In the space behind, between the extremities of the rings., the membrane forms a single distinct layer. The muscular fibres are disposed in two layers, longitudinal and transverse. The longitudinal fibres are the most external, and arise by minute tendons from the inner surfaces of the ends of the tracheal cartilages, and from the fibrous membrane. * Eeigel asserts that the entry of a foreign body into the left bronchus is by no means so infrequent as is generally supposed.