4 8i8 SYMPATHETIC NERVE the pulmonary artery, and behind the arch of the aorta. It is formed by the cardiac nerves derived from the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic, and the cardiac branches of the recurrent laryngeal and pneumogastric. The only cardiac nerves which do not enter into the formation of this plexus are the left superior cardiac nerve, and the left inferior cervical cardiac branch from the pneumogastric. The branches from the right side of this plexus pass, some in front of, and others behind, the right pulmonary artery ; the former, the more numerous, transmit a few filaments to the anterior pulmonary plexus, and are then continued onwards to form part of the anterior coronary plexus ; those behind the pulmonary artery distribute a few filaments to the right auricle, and are then continued omvards to form part of the posterior coronary plexus. The branches from the left side of the deep cardiac plexus distribute a few filaments to the superficial cardiac plexus, to the left auricle of the heart, and to the anterior pulmonary plexus, and then pass on to form the greater part of the posterior coronary plexus. The superficial (anterior) cardiac plexus lies beneath the arch of the aorta, in front of the right pulmonary artery. It is formed by the left superior cardiac nerve, the left (and occasionally the right) inferior cervical cardiac branches of the pneumogastric, and filaments from the deep cardiac plexus. A small ganglion [cardiac ganglion of Wrisherg) is occasionally found connected with these nerves at their point of junction. This ganglion, when present, is situated immediately beneath the arch of the aorta, on the right side of the ductus arteriosus. The superficial cardiac plexus forms the chief part of the anterior coronary plexus, and several filaments pass along the pulmonary artery to the left anterior pulmonary plexus. The posterior coronary plexus is chiefly formed by filaments prolonged from the left side of the deep cardiac plexus, and by a few from the right side. It surrounds the branches of the coronary artery at the back of the heart, and its filaments are distributed with those vessels to the muscular substance of the ventricles. The anterior coronary plexus is formed chiefly from the superficial cardiac plexus, but receives filaments from the deep cardiac plexus. Passing forwards between the aorta and pulmonary artery, it accompanies the left coronary artery on the anterior surface of the heart. Valentin has described nervous filaments ramifying under the endocardium ; and Remak has found, in several mammalia, numerous small ganglia on the cardiac nerves, both on the surface of the heart and in its muscular substance. The Epigastric or Solar Plexus (fig. 473, 475) The Epigastric or Solar plexus supplies all the viscera in the abdominal cavity. It consists of a great network of nerves and ganglia, situated behind the stomach and in front of the aorta and crura of the Diaphragm. It surrounds the coeliac axis and root of the superior mesenteric artery, extending downwards as low as the pancreas, and outwards to the suprarenal capsules. This plexus, and the ganglia connected with it, receive the great splanchnic nerve of both sides, and some filaments from the right pneumogastric. It distributes filaments, which accompany, under the name of plexuses, all the branches from the front of the abdominal aorta. The semilunar ganglia of the solar plexus, two in number, one on each side, are the largest ganglia in the body. They are large irregular gangliform masses, formed by the aggregation of smaller ganglia, having interspaces between them. They are situated in front of the crura of the Diaphragm, close to the suprarenal capsules : the one on the right side lies beneath the inferior vena cava ; the upper part of each ganglion is joined by the greater splanchnic nerve, and to the inner side of each the branches of the solar plexus are connected. From the epigastric or solar plexus are derived the following :—