1064 SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA abdominal side of Ponpart's ligament, and closely connected with it, is a thickened band of fibres, called the dee]j crural arch. It is apparently a thickening of the fascia transversalis, joining externally to the centre of Ponpart's ligament, and arching across the front of the crural sheath, to be inserted by a broad attachment into the pectineal line, behind the conjoined tendon. In some subjects this structure is not very prominently marked, and not unfrequently it is altogether wanting. The crural canal is the narrow interval between the femoral vein and the inner wall of the crural sheath. It exists as a distinct canal only when the sheath has been separated from the vein by dissection, or by the pressure of a hernia or tumour. Its length is from a quarter to half an inch, and it extends from Gimbernat's ligament to the upper part of the saphenous opening. Its anterior wall is very narrow, and formed by a continuation downwards of the fascia transversalis, under Poupart's ligament, covered by the falciform process of the fascia lata. Fig. 630.—Hernia. The relations of the femoral and internal abdominal rings seen from within the abdomen. Eight side. Its iwsterior ivall is formed by a continuation downwards of the iliac fascia covering the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Its outer icall is formed by the fibrous septum separating it from the inner side of the femoral vein. Its inner wall is formed by the junction of the processes of the transversalis and iliac fasciae, which form the inner side of the femoral sheath, and lies in contact, at its commencement, with the outer edge of Gimbernat's ligament. This canal has two orifices—an upper one, the femoral or crural ring, closed by the septum crurale ; and a lower one, the saijhenous opening, closed by the cribriform fascia. The femoral or crural ring (fig. 630) is the upper opening of the femoral canal, and leads into the cavity of the abdomen. It is bounded, in front, by Poupart's ligament and the deep crural arch ; behind, by the os pubis, covered by the Pectineus muscle, and the pubic portion of the fascia lata ; internally, by the base of Gimbernat's ligament, the conjoined tendon, the transversalis fascia, and the deep crural arch ; externally, by the fibrous septum lying on the inner side of the femoral vein. The femoral ring is of an oval form ; its long diameter, directed