805 GREAT SCIATIC puclic, is situated below the pndic artery. It accompanies the superficial perineal artery in the perineum, dividing into cutaneous and muscular branches. The cutaneous branches (superficial perineal) are two in number, posterior and anterior. The 'posterior or external branch passes forwards along the outer side of the perineal space parallel to the inferior pudendal nerve, and is distributed to the skin of the scrotum. It communicates with the inferior hasmorrhoidal, the inferior pudendal, and the other superficial perineal nerve. The anterior or internal branch passes forwards nearer to the middle line, to be distributed to the inner and back part of the scrotum. Both these nerves supply the labia majora in the female. The muscular branches are distributed to the Transversus perinsei, Accelerator urinas, Erector penis, and Compressor urethrse. A distinct branch is given off from the nerve to the Accelerator urinas, which pierces this muscle, and supplies the corpus spongiosum, ending in the mucous membrane of the urethra. This is the nerve to the bulb. The dorsal nerve of the penis is the deepest division of the pudie nerve ; it accompanies the pudic artery along the ramus of the ischium ; piercing the posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, it runs forwards along the inner margin of the ramus of the os pubis, between the two layers of the deep fascia. It then pierces the anterior layer, and, in company with the dorsal artery of the penis, passes through the suspensory ligament, and, running forwards, is distributed to the glans. On the penis, this nerve gives off a cutaneous branch, which runs along the side of the organ; it is joined with branches of the sympathetic, and supplies the integument of the upper surface and sides of the penis and prepuce, giving a large branch to the corpus cavernosum. In the female the dorsal nerve is very small, and supplies the clitoris. The Small Sciatic Nerve (fig. 471) supplies the integument of the perinasum and back part of the thigh and leg. It is usually formed by the union of two branches, which arise from the second and third nerves of the sacral plexus. It issues from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen below the Pyriformis muscle, descends beneath the Gluteus maximus with the sciatic artery, and at the lower border of that muscle passes along the back part of the thigh, beneath the fascia lata, to the lower part of the popliteal region, where it pierces the fascia and becomes cutaneous. It then accompanies the external saphenous vein to about the middle of the leg, its terminal filaments communicating with the external saphenous nerve. The branches of the small sciatic nerve are all cutaneous, and consist of four groups : internal, external, ascending, and descending. The internal cutaiieous branches are distributed to the skin at the upper and inner side of the thigh, on its posterior aspect. One branch, longer than the rest, the inferior pudendal, curves forward below the tuber ischii, pierces the fascia lata, and passes forwards beneath the superficial fascia of the perinaeum to be distributed to the integument of the scrotum in the male and the labium in the female, communicating with the superficial perineal and inferior h^emorrhoidal nerves. The external cutaneous branches consist of two or three filaments, which are distributed to the skin at the upper and outer side of the thigh on its posterior aspect, as far down as the middle of that region. The ascending cutaneous branches consist of two or three filaments, which turn upwards round the lower border of the Gluteus maximus, to supply the integument covering its surface. The descending cutaneous branches are given off from the lesser sciatic nerve as it descends beneath the fascia of the thigh ; they supply the integument of the back part of the thigh, popliteal region, and upper part of the leg. The Great Sciatic Nerve (fig. 471) supplies nearly the whole of the integument of the leg, the muscles of the back of the thigh, and those of the leg and foot. It is the largest nervous cord in the body, measuring three-quarters of an inch in