375 NASAL PiE(;iOX areolar tissue is then divided, and into the small aperture thus made, a blunt hook is passed upwards between the muscle and the globe, and the tendon of the muscle and conjunctiva covering it, divided by a pair of blunt-pointed scissors. Or the tendon may be divided by a subconjunctival incision, one blade of the scissors, being passed upwards between the tendon and the conjunctiva, and the other between the tendon and the sclerotic. The student, when dissecting these muscles, should remove on one side of the subject the conjunctiva from the front of the eye, in order to see more accurately the position of the tendons, while on the opposite side the operation may be performed. The Pyramidalis nasi is a small pyramidal slip, prolonged dow^nwwds from the Occipito-frontalis upon the side of the nose, where it becomes tendinous and blends with the Compressor nasi. As the two muscles descend, they diverge, leaving an angular interval bet^veen them. Relations.—By its upper mrface, with the skin. By its under surface, wiih the frontal and nasal bones. The Levator labii superioris alseque nasi is a thin triangular muscle, placed by the side of the nose, and extending between the inner margin of the orbit and n]jper lip. It arises by a pointed extremity from the upper part of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and passing obliquely dow^nwards and outwards, di^ides into two slips, one of which is inserted into the cartilage of the ala of the nose ; the other is prolonged into the upper lip, becoming blended with the Orbicularis oris and Levator labii superioris proprius. Eelations.—In front, with the integument; and with a small part of the Orbicularis palpebrarum above. The Dilatator naris posterior is a small muscle, which is placed partly Ijeneath the elevator of the nose and lip. It arises from the margin of the nasal notch of the superior maxilla, and from the sesamoid cartilages, and is inserted into the skin near the margin of the nostril. The Dilatator naris anterior is a thin delicate fasciculus, passing from the cartilage of the ala of the nose to the integument near its margin. This muscle is situated in front of the preceding. The Compressor nasi is a small, thin, triangular muscle, arising by its a^^ex from the superior maxillary bone, above and a little external to the incisive fossa; its fibres proceed upwards and inwards, expanding into a thin aponeurosis w-hich is attached to the fibro-cartilage of the nose, and is continuous on the bridge of the nose with that of the muscle of the opposite side, and with the aponeurosis of the Pyramidalis nasi. The Compressor narium minor is a small muscle, attached by one end to the alar cartila.^^e, and by the other to the inte.L'nment at the end of the nose. The Depressor alae nasi is a short, radiated muscle, arising from the incisive fossa of the superior maxilla ; its fibres ascend to be inserted into the septum, and back part of the ala of the nose. This muscle lies between the mucous membrane and muscular structure of the lip. Nerves.—All the muscles of this group are supplied by the facial nerve. Actions.—The Pyramidalis nasi draws down the inner angle of the eyebrows and produces transverse wrinkles over the bridge of the nose ; by some anatomists it is also considered as an elevator of the ala, and, consequently, a dilator of the nose.* The Levator labii superioris alseque nasi draws upwards the upper lip and ' Although tliis muscle anatomicallj^ seems to be a continuation of the Occipito- frontalis downwards, it is really the reverse. Its origin is from the nose below and its insertion into the Occipito-frontalis and skin. If one pole of a battery be placed in front 5. Nasal Piegion ffig. 269) Pyramidalis nasi. Levator labii superioris aheque nasi. Dilatator naris posterior. Dilatator naris anterior. Compressor nasi. Compressor narium minor. Depressor ala nasi.