919 GLANDS OF SMALL INTESTINE Fig. 537.—Transverse section through the eciuatorial plane of three of Peyer's folhcles from the rabbit. Cajnllary netivorh The duodenal or Brunner's glands are limited to the duodenum and commence- ment of the jejunum. They are small, flattened, granular bodies, embedded in the submucous areolar tissue, and open upon the surface of the mucous membrane by minute excretory ducts. They are most numerous and largest near the pylorus. They may be compared to the elementary lobules of a salivary gland spread out over a broad surface, instead of being collected in a mass. They consist of a number of tubular alveoli, lined by epithelium and opening by a single duct on the inner surface of the in- testine. The solitary glands (cjlandulcB solitaries) are found scattered through- out the mucous membrane of the small intestine, but are most numerous in the lower part of the ileum. They are small, round, whitish bodies, from half a line to a line in diameter. Their free surface is covered with villi, and each gland is surrounded by the openings of the follicles of Lieberkiihn. They are now recognised as lymph- follicles, and consist of a dense inter- lacing retiform tissue, closely packed with lymph-corpuscles, and permeated with an abundant capillary network (fig. 537). The interspaces of the reti- form tissue are continuous with larger lymph-spaces at the base of the gland through which they communicate with the lacteal system. They are situated partly in the submucous tissue, partly in the mucous membrane, where they form slight projections of its epithelial layer, after having penetrated the muscularis mucosae. The villi which are situated on them are generally absent from the very summit (or ' cupola,' as Frey calls it) of the gland. Fig. 538.—Patch of Peyer's glands. From the lower part of the ileum. Fig. 539.--A portion of the above masrnified. \^\J Z'^:-^^ ;W .A' ■ .\' Peyer's glands (figs. 536 540) may be regarded as aggregations of solitary glands, forming circular or oval patches from twenty to thirty in number, and varying in length from half an inch to four inches. They are largest and most numerous in the ileum. In the lower part of the jejunum they are small, of a circular form, and few in number. They are occasionally seen in the duodenum.