541 INTERNAL MAXILLARY Branches of the First or Maxillary Portion (fig. 351) Tympanic (anterior). Small Meningeal. Middle Meningeal. Inferior Dental. The tympanic branch passes upwards behind the articulation of the lower jaw, enters the tympanum through the Glaserian fissure, and ramifies upon the membrana tympani, forming a vascular circle around the membrane with the stylo-mastoid artery, and anastomosing with the Vidian and the tympanic branch from the internal carotid. It gives off an auricular branch to the external meatus, supplying its cuticular lining and the outer surface of the membrana tympani. The middle meningeal is the largest of the branches which supply the dura mater. It arises from the internal maxillary, between the internal lateral ligament and the neck of the jaw, and passes vertically upwards between the two roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve to the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone. On entering the cranium, it divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. The anterior branch, the larger, crosses the great ala of the sphenoid, and reaches the groove, or canal, in the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone : it then divides into branches which spread out between the dura mater and internal surface of the cranium, some passing upwards over the parietal bone as far as the vertex, and others backwards to the occipital bone. The i^osterior branch crosses the squamous portion of the temporal, and on the inner surface of the parietal bone divides into branches which supply the posterior part of the dura mater and cranium. The branches of this vessel are distributed partly to the dura mater, but chiefly to the bones; they anastomose with the arteries of the opposite side, and with the anterior and posterior meningeal. The middle meningeal on entering the cranium gives off the following colla- teral branches : i. Numerous small vessels to the ganglion of the fifth nerve, and to the dura mater in this situation. 2. A branch (jjetrosal branch), which enters the hiatus Fallopii, supplies the facial nerve, and anastomoses with the stylo- mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery. 3. Orbital branches, which pass through the sphenoidal fissure, or through separate canals in the great wing of the sphenoid to anastomose with the lachrymal or other branches of the ophthalmic artery. 4. Temporal branches, which pass through foramina in the great wing of the sphenoid, and anastomose in the temporal fossa with the deep temporal arteries. Surgical Anatomy.—The middle meningeal is an artery of considerable surgical importance, as it may be injured in fractures of the temporal region of the skull, and the injury may be followed by considerable hsemorrhage between the bone and dura mater, which may cause compression of the brain, and require the operation of trephining for its relief. This artery crosses the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone at a point inch behind the external angular process of the frontal bone, and if inch above the zygoma. From this point the anterior branch passes upwards and slightly backwards to the sagittal suture, lyino^ about ^ inch to f inch behind the coronal suture. The posterior branch passes upwards and backwards over the squamous portion of the temporal bone. In order to expose the artery as it lies in the canal in the parietal bone, a semilunar incision, with its convexity upwards, should be made, commencing an inch behind the external angular process, and carried backwards for 2 inches. The structures cut through are : (i) skin ; (2) superficial fascia, with branches of the superficial temporal vessels and nerves ; (3) the fascia continued down from the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis; (4) the two layers of the temporal fascia ; (5) the temporal muscle ; (6) the deep temporal vessels; (7) the pericranium; and (8) the bone. The small meningeal is sometimes derived from the preceding. It enters the skull through the foramen ovale, and supplies the Gasserian ganglion and dura mater. Before entering the cranium it gives oft' a branch to the nasal fossa, soft palate, and tonsil. The inferior dental descends with the dental nerve to the foramen on the inner side of the ramus of the jaw. It runs along the dental canal in the substance of the bone, accompanied by the nerve, and opposite the first bicuspid tooth divides into two branches, incisor and mental; the former is continued forwards beneaih