578 ARTERIES mnsculo-spiral nerve; it winds round the back part of the shaft of the humerus in the spiral groove, between the Triceps and the bone, to the outer side of the humerus, just a,bove the external condyle, where it divides into two terminal branches. One of these pierces the 'external intermuscular septum, and descends to the space between the Brachialis anticus and Supinator longus, where it anasto- moses with the recurrent branch of the radial artery ; while the other, the posterior articular, descends along the back of the external intermuscular septum to the back part of the elbow-joint, where it anastomoses with the posterior interosseous recurrent, and across the back of the humerus with the posterior ulnar recurrent, the anastomotica magna, and inferior profunda (fig. 366). The superior profunda supplies the Triceps muscle and gives off a nutrient artery to the upper end of the humerus. Near its commencement it sends off a branch which passes upwards between the external and long heads of the Triceps muscle to anastomose with the posterior circumflex artery ; and, while in the groove, a small branch which accompanies a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve through the substance of the Triceps muscle and ends in the Anconeus below the outer condyle of the humerus. The nutrient artery of the shaft of the humerus arises from the brachial, about the middle of the arm. Passing downwards, it enters the nutrient canal of that bone, near the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis muscle. The inferior profunda, of small size, arises from the brachial, a little below the middle of the arm ; piercing the internal intermuscular septum, it descends on the surface of the inner head of the Triceps muscle, to the space between the inner condyle and olecranon, accompanied by the ulnar nerve, and terminates by anasto- mosing with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anastomotica magna. It also supplies a branch to the front of the internal condyle, which anastomoses with the anterior ulnar recurrent. The anastomotica magna arises from the brachial, about two inches above the elbow-joint. It passes transversely inwards upon the Brachialis anticus, and, piercing the internal intermuscular septum, winds round the back part of the humerus between the Triceps and the bone, forming an arch above the olecranon fossa, by its junction with the posterior articular branch of the superior profunda. As this vessel lies on the Brachialis anticus, branches ascend to join the inferior profunda; and others descend in front of the inner condyle, to anastomose with the anterior ulnar recurrent. Behind the internal condyle an offset is given off which anastomoses with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries and supplies the Triceps. The muscular are three or four large branches, which are distributed to the muscles in the course of the artery. They supply the Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, and Brachialis anticus muscles. The Anastomosis around the Elbow-joint (fig. 366).—The vessels engaged in this anastomosis may be conveniently divided into those situated in front and beJiind the internal and external condyles. The branches anastomosing in front of the internal condyle are:—-The anastomotica magna, the anterior ulnar recurrent, and the anterior terminal branch of the inferior profunda. Those behind the internal condyle are:—The anastomotica magna, the posterior ulnar recurrent, and the posterior terminal branch of the inferior profunda. The branches anastomosing in front of the external condyle are :■—The radial recurrent and one of the terminal branches of the superior profunda. Those behind the external condyle (perhaps more properly described as being situated between the external condyle and the olecranon) are :—The anastomotica magna, the interosseous recurrent, and one of the terminal branches of the superior profunda. There is also a large arch of anastomosis above the olecranon, formed by the interosseous recurrent, joining with the anastomotica magna and posterior ulnar recurrent (fig. 366). From this description it will be observed that the anastomotica magna is the vessel most engaged, the only part of the anastomosis in which it is not employed being that in front of the external condyle.