ACROMIAL REGION 449 and thus assists this muscle in raising the acromion and supporting weights upon the shoulder. It is possible that when the shoulders are fixed the lower fibres may assist in raising and everting the ribs ; but it is not the important inspiratory muscle which it was formerly believed to be. Surgical Anatomy.—When the muscle is paralysed, the vertebral border, and especially the lower angle, leave the ribs and stand out prominently on the surface, giving a peculiar ' winged' appearance to the back. The patient is unable to raise the arm above a right angle, and an attempt to do so is followed by a revolution of the scapula, instead of by the elevation of the arm. Dissection.—After completing the dissection of the axilla, if the muscles of the back have been dissected, the upper extremity should be separated from the trunk. Saw through the clavicle at its centre, and then cut through the muscles which connect the scapula and arm with the trunk, viz. the Pectoralis minor in front, Serratus magnus at the side, and the Levator anguli scapulae, the Rhomboids, Trapezius, and Latissimus dorsi behind. These muscles should be cleaned and traced to their respective insertions. Then make an incision through the integument, commencing at the outer third of the clavicle, and extending along the margin of that bone, the acromion process, and spine of the scapula; the integument should be dissected from above downwards and outwards, when the fascia covering the Deltoid is exposed (fig. 301, No. 3). The superficial fascia of the upper extremity is a thin cellulo-fibrous layer, containing the superficial veins and lymphatics, and the cutaneous nerves. It is most distinct in front of the elbow, and contains very large superficial veins and nerves ; in the hand it is hardly demonstrable, the integument being closely adherent to the deep fascia by dense fibrous bands. Small subcutaneous bursse are found in this fascia over the acromion, the olecranon, and the knuckles. The deep fascia of the upper extremity comprises the aponeurosis of the shoulder, arm, and forearm, the anterior and posterior annular ligaments of the carpus, and the palmar fascia. These will be considered in the description of the muscles of the several regions. Acromial Region Deltoid. The deep fascia covering the Deltoid (deltoid aponeurosis) is a fibrous layer, which covers the outer surface of the muscle, thick and strong behind, where it is continuous with the infraspinatus fascia, thinner over the rest of its extent. It sends down numerous prolongations between the fasciculi of the muscle. In front, it is continuous with the fascia covering the great Pectoral muscle ; behind, with that covering the Infraspinatus; above, it is attached to the clavicle, the acromion, and spine of the scapula ; below, it is continuous with the deep fascia of the arm. The Deltoid (fig. 302) is a large, thick, triangular muscle, which gives the rounded outline to the shoulder, and has received its name from its resemblance to the Greek letter A reversed. It surrounds the shoulder-joint in the greater part of its extent, covering it on its outer side, and in front and behind. It arises from the outer third of the anterior border and upper surface of the clavicle ; from the outer margin and upper surface of the acromion process ; and from the lower lip of the posterior border of the spine of the scapula, as far back as the triangular surface at its inner end. From this extensive origin the fibres converge towards their insertion, the middle passing vertically, the anterior obliquely backwards, the posterior obliquely forwards; they unite to form a thick tendon, which is inserted into a rough prominence on the middle of the outer side of the shaft of the humerus. At its insertion the muscle gives off an expansion to the deep fascia of the arm. This muscle is remarkably coarse in texture, and the arrangement of its muscular fibres is somewhat peculiar ; the central portion of the muscle—that is to say, the part arising from the acromion process—consists of oblique fibres, which arise in a bipenniform manner from the sides of tendinous intersections, generally four in number, which are attached above to the acromion process and pass downwards parallel to one another in the substance of the muscle. The oblique muscular fibres thus formed are inserted into similar tendinous intersections, generally three in number, which pass upwards from the insertion of the muscle into the humerus G G