379 TEMPOKO-MAXILLAEY REGION corresponds to the cavity of the month, and is Hned by mucous membrane. Its outer surface is separated from the ramus of the jaw by a quantity of adipose tissue. Its ijosterior border gives attachment to the Superior constrictor of the pharynx ; its anterior border, to the fibres of the Buccinator (see fig. 282). The Eisorius (Santorini) (fig. 269) consists of a narrow bundle of fibres, which arises in the fascia over the Masseter muscle and, passing horizontally forwards, is inserted into the skin at the angle of the mouth. It is placed superficial to the Platysma, and is broadest at its outer extremity. This muscle varies much in its size and form. Nerves.—The Orbicularis oris and the Eisorius are supplied by the facial, the Buccinator by the facial and by the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, which latter, however, is by many anatomists regarded as a sensory nerve only. Actions.—The Orbicularis oris in its ordinary action produces the direct closure of the lips ; by its deep fibres, assisted by the oblique ones, it closely applies the lips to the alveolar arch. The superficial part, consisting principally of the decussating fibres, brings the lips together and also protrudes them forwards. The Buccinators contract and compress the cheeks, so that, during the process of mastication, the food is kept under the immediate pressure of the teeth. When the cheeks have been previously distended with air, the Buccinator muscles expel it from between the lips, as in blowing a trumpet. Hence the name [buccina, a trumpet). The Risorius retracts the angles of the mouth, and is therefore regarded as the ' smiling ' muscle. 9. Temporo-maxillaey Region Masseter. . Temporal. Masseteric Fascia.—Covering the Masseter muscle, and firmly connected with it, is a strong layer of fascia, derived from the deep cervical fascia. Above, this fascia is attached to the lower border of the zygoma, and behind it covers the parotid gland, constituting the ijarotid fascia. The Masseter is exposed by the removal of this fascia (fig. 269); it is a short, thick muscle, somewhat quadrilateral in form, consisting of two portions, super- ficial and deep. The superficial portion, the larger, arises by a thick, tendinous aponeurosis from the malar process of the superior maxilla, and from the anterior two-thirds of the lower border of the zygomatic arch: its fibres pass downwards and backwards, to be inserted into the angle and lower half of the outer surface of the ramus of the jaw. The deep portion is much smaller, and more muscular in texture; it arises from the posterior third of the lower border and the whole of the inner surface of the zygomatic arch ; its fibres pass downwards and forwards, to be inserted into the upper half of the ramus and outer surface of the coronoid process of the jaw. The deep portion of the muscle is partly concealed, in front, by the superficial portion ; behind, it is covered by the parotid gland. The fibres of the two portions are united at their insertion. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Zygomatici, the Socia parotidis, and Stenson's duct ; the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial vessels, which cross it; the masseteric fascia; the Risorius Santorini, Platysma myoides, and the integument. By its deep surface, with the Temporal muscle at its insertion, the ramus of the jaw, and the Buccinator, from which it is separated by a mass of fat. The masseteric nerve and artery enter it on its under surface. Its posterior margin is overlapped by the parotid gland. Its anterior margin projects over the Buccinator muscle ; and the facial vein lies on it below. The temporal fascia is seen, at this stage of the dissection, covering in the Temporal muscle. It is a strong, fibrous investment, covered, on its outer surface, by the Attrahens and AttoUens aurem muscles, the aponeurosis of the Occipito- frontalis, and by part of the Orbicularis palpebrarum. The temporal vessels and the auriculo-temporal nerve cross it from below uiDwards. Above, it is a single