82 GENERAL ANATOMY chorion, where it is exposed to the influence of the maternal blood circulating in the decidua or uterine portion of the placenta, from which it imbibes the materials of nutrition, and to which it gives up effete materials, the removal of which is necessary for its purification. In Fig. 87.—Sectional i^lan of the gravid uterus in the third and fourth month. (From AYagner.) some animals the allantois is a hollow projection and is usually styled the allantoic vesicle; but in most mammals, and especially in man, the external or mesoblastic element undergoes great develop- ment, while the internal or hypo- blastic element undergoes little increase beyond the body of the embryo, so that it is very doubtful whether any cavity exists in the allantois beyond the limits of the umbilicus, or whether it does not rather consist of a solid mass of material derived from the meso- blastic tissue.* A portion of the allantoic vesicle within the body- cavity is eventually destined to form the bladder, while the re- mainder forms an impervious cord, the urachus, stretching from the summit of the bladder to the um- bilicus. The part external to the foetus forms the umbilical cord, by which the foetus is connected with the villi of the chorion, and which eventually form the foetal portion of the placenta. The Decidua.—The growth of the chorion and placenta can only be understood by tracing the'form- ation of the decidua. The decidua (figs. 80 g, 87) is formed from the mucous membrane of the uterus. Even before the ar- rival of the fecundated ovum in the uterus, the mucous membrane of the latter is vascular and tumid, and when the ovum has reached the uterus it becomes embedded in the folds of the mucous membrane, which grow up around it and finally completely encircle it, so as to cover it in entirely and exclude it from the uterine cavity. Thus two portions of the uterine mucous membrane (decidua) are formed, viz. that which coats the muscular wall of the uterus, decidua vera, and that Avhich is in contact with the ovum, decidua reflcxa. The decidua vera at the OS internum and at the openings of the Fallopian tubes is continuous with the lining membrane of these canals, the thickening of the original mucous membrane of the uterus which converts it into decidua abruptly ceasing at these points. The neck of the uterus after conception is closed by a plug of mucus. The decidua vera «. Plug of ulucus in the neck of the uterus, b. Fallopian tube. c. The deciilua vera. c'-. The decidua vera passing into the right Fallopian tube : tlie cavity of tlie uterus is almost comi>letely occupieil by the ovaui. e, e. Points of reflection of tlie decidua reliexa (in nature the united decidua do not stop here, but pass over the wlmlc uterine surface of the placenta), g. Supposed allantois. rmiiiUcal vesicle. i. Amnion, k. Chorion, covered \vith thu deciilua retiexa. d. Cavity of the decidua. /. Decidua serotina, or placental decidua. * Indeed, it would appear, from the researches of His, that in the human embryo not only is the allantois formed unusually early, as is admitted by all, but in an altogether exceptional manner, not consisting of an outgrowth from the portion of the splanchno- pleure engaged in the formation of the alimentary canal, but being present from the very earliest period as a stalk connecting the posterior extremity of the embryo with the chorion.