NERVOUS SYSTEM 700 extremity of the fissure of Sylvius. It first runs upwards parallel to and behind the lower half of the fissure of Rolando, and then turns backwards, extending nearly to the termination of the external parieto-occipital fissure, where it some- times becomes continuous with the superior occipital sulcus. The ascending portion of this sulcus separates off a convolution, the ascending parietal, which lies between it and the fissure of Rolando, whilst the horizontal portion divides the remainder of the parietal lobe into two other convolutions, the superior and inferior parietal. The post-central sulcus is a slightly marked groove, which is sometimes a branch of the intraparietal sulcus, being given off where the ascending portion of this sulcus turns backwards. It lies parallel to and behind the upper part of the fissure of Rolando, and separates the ascending from the superior parietal convolution.* The ascending parietal convolution is bounded in front by the fissure of Rolando, behind by the ascending portion of the intraparietal and the post- central sulci. It extends from the great longitudinal fissure above to the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius below. It lies parallel with the ascending frontal convolution, with which it is connected below, and also generally above, the termination of the fissure of Rolando. The superior parietal convolution is bounded in front by the post-central sulcus which separates it from the previous convolution, but with which it is usually connected above the upper extremity of the sulcus; behind, it is bounded by the external parieto-occipital fissure, below the termination of which it is connected with the occipital lobe by a narrow convolution, ihQ first annectant gyrus. Below, it is separated from the inferior parietal convolution by the horizontal portion of the intraparietal sulcus ; and above, it is continuous on the inner surface of the hemisphere with the quadrate lobe. The inferior parietal convolution is that portion of the parietal lobe which is situated between the ascending portion of the intraparietal sulcus in front, the horizontal portion of the same sulcus above, the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius below, and the posterior boundary of the parietal lobe behind. It is subdivided into two convolutions by an indistinct groove. One, the supra- marginal, lies behind the lower end of the intraparietal sulcus and above the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. It is connected, in front, with the ascending parietal convolution beneath the intraparietal sulcus, and Avith the superior temporo-sphenoidal convolution behind, round the posterior extremity of the fissure of Sylvius. The other, the angular, is connected in front with the foregoing, and with the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution by a process which curves round the superior temporo-sphenoidal or parallel sulcus. It is connected with the occipital lobe by the second annectant gyrus. The occipital lobe is triangular in shape and forms the posterior extremity of the hemisphere. It is bounded in front by the external parieto-occipital fissure and a line drawn from the extremity of this in the direction of the fissure across the outer surface of the hemisphere. It is continuous below and in front with the * Professor Cunningham describes these two sulci, the intraparietal and post-central, somewhat differently. He regards them as both belonging to the intraparietal sulcus, which he divides into three parts : the ascending portion of the intraparietal, as described above, he terms the ramus verticalis inferior ; the horizontal portion as the ramus Jiori- zontalis ; while the post-central sulcus he denominates the ramus verticalis superior. He states that considerable variabiHty is exhibited in the relation to each otlier of these different parts of the intraparietal sulcus, but that the one in wliich the three j)arts of the sulcus are confluent is by far the most constant condition. Sometimes, however, the three parts of the sulcus may be all separate, or the ramus horizontalis confluent with the ramus verticalis inferior, the ramus verticalis superior remaining separate ; or, again, the vertical limbs may be confluent and the horizontal limb separate ; or, finally, the ramus horizontalis may be joined to the lower end of the ramus verticalis superior, while the lower vertical limb is separate. The connection which sometimes exists between the intraparietal sulcus and the occipital lobe he calls the r^m^.'s occipitalis. In the majority of cases, however, the occipital ramus is separated from the main portion of the intra- parietal sulcus by a superficial or deep bridging convolution. Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xxiv. part ii. p. 135.