685 THE BKAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES similar to those found, on serous membranes, lines its inner surface ; these were formerly regarded as belonging to the arachnoid membrane. Its arteries are very numerous, but are chiefly distributed to the bones. Those found in the anterior fossa are the anterior meningeal branches of the anterior and posterior ethmoidal and internal carotid, and a branch from the middle meningeal. In the middle fossa are the middle and small meningeal branches of the internal maxillary, a branch from the ascending pharyngeal, which enters the skull through the foramen lacerum medium basis cranii, branches from the internal carotid, and a recurrent branch from the lachrymal. In the posterior fossa are meningeal branches from the occipital: one of which enters the skull through the jugular foramen, and the other through the mastoid foramen ; the posterior meningeal, from the vertebral; occasionally meningeal branches from the ascending pharyngeal, which enter the skull, one at the jugular foramen, the other at the anterior condyloid foramen, and a branch from the middle meningeal. The veins, which return the blood from the dura mater, and partly from the bones, anastomose with the diploic veins. These vessels terminate in the various sinuses, with the exception of two which accompany the middle meningeal artery, and pass out of the skull at the foramen spinosum to join the internal maxillary vein. The nerves of the dura mater are, the recurrent branch of the fourth, and filaments from the Gasserian ganglion, from the ophthalmic and hypoglossal nerves, and from the sympathetic. The so-called giandulae Pacchioni are numerous small whitish granulations, usually collected into clusters of variable size, which are found in the following- situations :—I. Upon the outer surface of the dura mater, in the vicinity of the superior longitudinal sinus, being received into little depressions on the inner surface of the calvarium. 2. On the inner surface of the dura mater. 3. In the superior longitudinal sinus. 4. On the pia mater, near the margin of the hemispheres. These bodies are not glandular in structure, but simply enlarged normal villi of the arachnoid. In their growth they perforate the dura mater, and are thus found on its outer surface, and when of large size they cause absorption of the bone, and come to be lodged in pits or depressions on the inner table of the skull. The manner in which they perforate the dura mater is as follows:—at an early period of their growth they project through minute holes in the inner layer of the dura mater, which open into large venous spaces situated in the tissues of the membrane, on either side of the longitudinal sinus and communicating with it. In their onward growth the villi push the outer layer of the dura mater before them, and this forms over them a delicate membranous sheath. In structure they consist of trabecule of connective tissue, covered over by a layer of endothelium. The spongy tissue of which they are composed is continuous with the trabecular tissue of the subarachnoid space. These bodies are not found in infancy, and very rarely until the third year. They are usually found after the seventh year ; and from this period they increase in number as age advances. Occasionally they are wanting. Processes of the Dura Mater.—The processes of the dura mater, sent inwards into the cavity of the skull, are three in number : the falx cerebri, the tentorium cerebelli, and the falx cerebelli. The falx cerebri, so named from its sickle-like form, is a strong arched process of the dura mater, which descends vertically in the longitudinal fissure between the two hemispheres of the brain. It is narrow in front, where it is attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone ; and broad behind, where it is connected with the upper surface of the tentorium. Its upper margin is convex, and attached to the inner surface of the skull as far back as the internal occipital protuberance. In this situation it is broad, and contains the superior longitudinal sinus. Its lower margin is free, concave, and presents a sharp curved edge, which contains the inferior longitudinal sinus. The tentorium cerebelli is an arched lamina of dura mater, elevated in the