CONVOLUTIONS OF CEEEBRUM 703 The parieto-occipital fissure {internal parieto-occipital) is the continuation of the fissure of the same name seen on the outer surface of the hemisphere. It extends in an obHque direction downwards and forwards to join the calcarine fissure on a level with the hinder end of the corpus callosum. It separates the quadrate from the cuneate lobe. The calcarine fissure commences, usually by two branches, at the back of the hemisphere, runs nearly horizontally forwards, and is joined by the parieto-occipital fissure, and continues nearly as far as the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, to terminate a little below the level of this commissure. It separates the cuneate lobe from the uncinate gyrus, and causes the prominence known as the hippocampus minor or calcar avis, whence its name. The collateral fissure is situated below the preceding, being separated from it by the uncinate gyrus. It runs forwards, from the posterior extremity of the Fig. 419.—Side view of the brain of man, showing the localisation of various function?. (After Ferrier.) I. Centre for tuovements of opposite leg and foot. 2, 3, 4. Centres for complex movements of the arms and legs, as in swimming. 5. Extension forward of the arm and hand, 6. Supination of the hand and flexion of the forearm, 7, 8. Elevators and depressors of the angle of the mouth. 9, 10. Movements of the lips and tongue. 11. Retraction of the angle of tlie mouth. 12. Movements of the eyes. 13, 13'. Vision. 14. Hearing, a, b, c, d. Movements of the wi-ists and fingers. brain, nearly as far as the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius. It runs between the internal and external occipito-temporal convolutions. It lies below the posterior and middle horn of the lateral ventricle, and causes the prominence known as the eminentia collateralis. The dentate or hippocampal fissure commences immediately below the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, and runs forward to terminate at the recurved part of the uncinate gyrus. It corresponds with the prominence of the hippocampus major in the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. The lobes or convolutions seen on the internal surface of the hemisphere are six in number, and are named: gyncs fornicatus, marginal, quadrate, cuneate, uncinate, or internal occipito-temporal, and the external occipito-temporal. The gyrus fornicatus, or convolution of the corpus callosum, is a well-marked