543 ANTEEIOR TRIANGLE OF THE NECK The four remaining branches arise from that portion of the internal maxillary which is contained in the spheno-maxillary fossa. The descending palatine passes down the posterior palatine canal with the anterior palatine branch of Meckel's ganglion, and, emerging from the posterior palatine foramen, runs forward in a groove on the inner side of the alveolar border of the hard palate to the anterior palatine canal, where the terminal branch of the artery passes upwards through the foramen of Stenson to anastomose with the naso- palatine artery. Its branches are distributed to the gums, the mucous membrane of the hard palate, and the palatine glands. Whilst it is contained in the palatine canal, it gives off branches, which descend in the accessory palatine canals to supply the soft palate and tonsil, anastomosing with the ascending palatine artery. The Vidian branch passes backwards along the Vidian canal with the Vidian nerve. It is distributed to the upper part of the pharynx and Eustachian tube, sending a small branch into the tympanum, which anastomoses with the anterior tympanic. The pterygo-palatine is also a very small branch, which passes backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal with the pharyngeal nerve, and is distributed to the upper part of the pharynx and Eustachian tube. The spheno-palatine passes through the spheno-palatine foramen into the cavity of the nose, at the back part of the superior meatus, and divides into two branches : one internal, the naso-palatine or superior artery of the septum, passes obliquely downwards and forwards along the septum nasi, supplies the mucous membrane, and anastomoses in front with the terminal branch of the descending palatine. The external branches, two or three in number, supply the mucous membrane covering the lateral wall of the nose, the antrum, and the ethmoid and sphenoid cells. The Teiangles of the Neck The student having considered the relative anatomy of the large arteries of the neck and their branches, and the relations they bear to the veins and nerves, should now examine these structures collectively, as they present themselves in certain regions of the neck, in each of which important operations are constantly being performed. The side of the neck presents a somewhat quadrilateral outline, limited, above, by the lower border of the body of the jaw, and an imaginary line extending from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process ; below, by the prominent upper border of the clavicle; in front, by the median line of the neck; behind, by the anterior margin of the Trapezius muscle. This space is subdivided into two large triangles by the Sterno-mastoid muscle, which passes obliquely across the neck, from the sternum and clavicle below, to the mastoid process above. The triangular space in front of this muscle is called the anterior triangle; and that behind it, the posterior triangle. Anterior Triangle of the Neck The anterior triangle is bounded, in front, by a line extending from the chin to the sternum ; behind, by the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid ; its base, directed upwards, is formed by the lower border of the body of the jaw, and a line extending from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process ; its apex is below, at the sternum. This space is subdivided into three smaller triangles by the Digastric muscle above, and the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid below. These smaller triangles are named, from below upwards, the inferior carotid, the superior carotid, and the submaxillary triangle. The Inferior Carotid Triangle is bounded, in front, by the median line of the neck ; behind, by the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid ; above, by the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid; and is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia; ramifying between which is the descending branch of the superficialis colli nerve. Beneath these superficial structures are the Sterno-