CARPUS 239 directed downwards and inwards, is oval, concave from side to side, convex from before backwards, so as to form a saddle-shaped surface, for articulation with the base of the first metacarpal bone. The anterior or iKilmar surface is narrow and rough. At its upper part is a deep groove, running from above obliquely down- wards and inwards; it transmits the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis, and is bounded externally by a prominent ridge, the oblique ridge of the trapezium. This surface gives attachment to the Abductor pollicis. Flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and Flexor brevis pollicis muscles, and the anterior annular ligament. The 2^osterior or dorsal surface is rough. The external surface is also broad and rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The internal surface presents two articular facets : the upper one, large and concave, articulates with the trapezoid; the lower one, narrow and flattened, with the base of the second metacarpal bone. Hold the bone with the saddle-shaped surface downwards and the grooved surface away from you. The prominent, rough, non-articular surface points to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—^With four bones : the scaphoid above, the trapezoid and second metacarpal bones internally, the first metacarpal below. Attachment of Muscles.—Abductor pollicis, Flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and part of the Flexor brevis pollicis. The Trapezoid is the smallest bone in the second row. It may be known by its wedge-shaped form, the broad end of the wedge forming the dorsal, the narrow end the palmar, surface; and by its having four articular surfaces touching each other, and separated by sharp edges. The su-perior surface, quadrilateral in form, smooth, and slightly concave, articulates with the scaphoid. The inferior surface articulates with the upper end of the second metacarpal bone ; it is convex from side to side, concave from before backwards, and subdivided, by an elevated ridge, into two unequal lateral facets. TYiq posterior oy dorsal and anterior or palmar surfaces are rough, for the attachment of ligaments, the former being the larger of the two. The external surface, convex and smooth, articulates with the trapezium. The internal surface is concave and smooth in front, for articulation with the OS magnum ; rough behind, for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. Hold the bone with the larger, non-articular surface towards you, and the smooth, quadrilateral articular surface upwards. The convex, articular surface will point to the side to which the bone belongs.* Articulations.—With four bones : the scaphoid above, second metacarpal bone below, trapezium externally, os magnum internally. The Os Magnum is the largest bone of the carpus, and occupies the centre of the wrist. It presents, above, a rounded portion or head, which is received into the concavity formed by the scaphoid and semilunar bones; a constricted portion or neck; and, below, the body. The superior surface is rounded, smooth, and articulates with the semilunar. The inferior surface is divided by two ridges into three facets, for articulation with the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones, that for the third (the middle facet) being the largest of the three. The posterior or dorsal surface is broad and rough ; the anterior or palmar, narrow, rounded,, and also rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The external surface articulates with the trapezoid by a small facet at its anterior inferior angle, behind which is a rough depression for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. Above this is a deep and rough groove, which forms part of the neck, and serves for the attachment of ligaments, bounded superiorly by a smooth, convex surface, for articulation with the scaphoid. The internal surface articulates with the unciform by a smooth, concave, oblong facet, which occupies its posterior and superior parts; and is rough in front, for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. Hold the bone with the broader, non-articular surface towards you, and the * Occasionally in a badly marked bone there is some difficulty in ascertaining to which side the bone belongs ; the following method will sometimes be found useful. Hold the bone with its broader, non articular surface upwards, so that its sloping border is directed towards you. The border will slope to the side to which the bone belongs.