STRUCTURE OF THE CEREBRUM 723 Arching over these peduncles is a flattish band of white fibres, the jiUet, which issues from beneath the transverse fibres of the pons, and in sections of this body can be seen lying between the deep transverse fibres and the reticular formation. If these fibres are traced upwards through the pons, the outer ones will be seen to become superficial at its upper border, to pass obliquely round the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, and become lost in the quadrigeminal body ; while the inner are continued upwards in the crus to the cerebral hemisphere. The corpora geniculata are two small, flattened, oblong masses, placed on the under and back part of each optic thalamus, and named, from their position, corpus geniculatnm externum and internum. The two bodies are separated from one another by one of the roots of the optic tract, the brachia anterior, from the nates. Structure of the Cerebrum The cerebrum, like the other parts of the great nerve-centre, is composed of grey and white matter. In order to give some general idea of its construction, at all events in part, it may be compared, for the sake of illustration, to a tree, the trimk of which divides into two main branches, and these break up into smaller branches, which finally end in twigs to w^hich are attached the leaves, forming an investment to the branches and covering the whole tree. The trunk is represented by the medulla oblongata as it passes through the foramen magnum; the two main branches by the crura cerebri, which break up into smaller branches, which diverge from each other, dividing and subdividing, until they reach the surface of the hemispheres, where they terminate in single nerve-fibres, to which are attached the basal axial cylinder processes of the nerve-cells, represented by the leaves. Thes? cells are arranged on the surface, resembling a cap covering the hemispheres, and constitute the cerebral cortex. But here the analogy ends, for in the cerebrum we have, in addition to this cortex, other masses of grey matter situated in the middle of the brain, and other white fibres beside these diverging ones which have been mentioned, and which serve either to connect the two hemispheres, of which the cerebrum consists, together, or else serve to connect different structures in the same hemisphere. The white matter of the cerebrum consists of medullated fibres, varying in size and arranged in bundles, separated by neuroglia. They may be divided into three distinct systems, according to the course which they take. i. Diverging or peduncular fibres, which connect the hemispheres with the medulla oblongata and cord. 2. Transverse commissural fibres, which connect together the two hemi- spheres. 3. Commissural fibres, which connect different structures in the same hemisphere. I. The diverging or peduncular fibres consist of a main body, which originates ID the cord and medulla oblongata, forms the longitudinal fibres of the pons, and, divides into two main branches, which, diverging from each other, constitute the crura cerebri or cerebral peduncles. In the crura cerebri, as has been before described, the diverging fibres derived from the longitudinal fibres of the pons Varohi are arranged in two strata, which are separated by the locus niger; the anterior or superficial stratum forming the crusta of these bodies, and the posterior or deeper stratum, the tegmentum. The fibres derived from these two sources take a diflerent course, and will have to be separately considered. The fibres of the crusta are derived from the pyramid of the medulla, which fibres are continued upwards through the pons to form the crusta; they are reinforced in their passage through the crus by accessory fibres derived from the central grey matter around the Sylvian aqueduct and from the locus niger. When they emerge from the crus, (i) some of the fibres pass directly upwards as radiating fibres to the grey matter of the cerebral hemisphere, forming the corona radiata ; (2) some of the fibres pass to the internal capsule, between the nucleus caudatus and lenticularis, where they give off fibres to these ganglia and receive others from them, and then, issuing from the capsule, diverge to form a part of the corona radiata, passing to the cerebral cortex. The fibres which arise from the ganglia