OF THE FOOT of the leg and foot. By its deep surface, with the fibula and outer side of the OS calcis. Nerves.—The Peroneus longus and brevis are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous branch of the external popliteal nerve. Actions.—The Peroneus longus and brevis extend the foot upon the leg, in conjunction with the Tibialis posticus, antagonising the Tibialis anticus and Peroneus tertius, which are flexors of the foot. The Peroneus longus also everts the sole of the foot; hence the extreme eversion occasionally observed in fracture of the lower end of the fibula, where that bone offers no resistance to the action of this muscle. Taking their fixed point below, the Peronei serve to steady the leg upon the foot. This is especially the case in standing upon one leg, when the tendency of the superincumbent weight is to throw the leg inwards : the Peroneus longus overcomes this tendency by drawing on the outer side of the leg, and thus maintains the perpendicular direction of the limb. Surgical Anatomy.—The student should now consider the position of the tendons of the various muscles of the leg, their relation with the ankle-joint and surrounding blood- vessels, and especially their action upon the foot, as their rigidity and contraction give rise to one or other of the kinds of deformity known as club foot. The most simple and common deformity, and one that is rarely, if ever, congenital, is the talijpes equinus, the heel being raised by rigidity and contraction of the Gastrocnemius muscle, and the patient walking upon the ball of the foot. In the talijpes varus, the foot is forcibly adclucted and the inner side of the sole raised, sometimes to a right angle with the ground, by the action of the Tibialis anticus and posticus. In the talipes valgus, the outer edge of the foot is raised by the Peronei muscles, and the patient walks on the inner ankle. In the talipes calcaneus the toes are raised by the Extensor muscles, the heel is depressed, and the patient walks upon it. Other varieties of deformity are met with, as the talipes equina- varus, equino-valgus, and calcaneo-valgus, whose names sufficiently indicate their nature. Of these, the talipes equino-varus is the most common congenital form ; the heel is raised by the tendo A chillis, the inner border of the foot drawn upwards by the Tibialis anticus, the anterior two-thirds twisted inwards by the Tibialis posticus, and the arch increased by the contraction of the plantar fascia, so that the patient walks on the middle of the outer border of the foot. Each of these deformities may be successfully relieved (after other remedies fail) by division of the opposing tendons and fascia : by this means, the foot regains its proper position, and the tendons heal by the organisation of lymph thrown out between the divided ends. The operation is easily performed by putting the contracted tendon upon the stretch, and di\'iding it by means of a narrow, sharp pointed knife inserted beneath it. Eupture of a few of the fibres of the Gastrocnemius, or rupture of the Plantaris tendon not uncommonly occurs, especially in men somewhat advanced in life, from some sudden exertion, and frequently occurs during the game of lawn tennis, and is hence known as ' lawn-tennis leg.' The accident is accompanied by a sudden pain, and produces a sensa- tion as if the individual had been struck a violent blow on the part. The tendo Achillis is also sometimes ruptured. It is stated that John Hunter ruptured his tendo Achillis whilst dancing, at the age of forty. Muscles and Fascia of the Foot The fibrous bands which bind down the tendons in front of and behind the ankle in their passage to the foot, should now be examined; they are termed the annular ligaments, and are three in number—anterior, internal, and external. The Anterior Annular Ligament consists of a superior or vertical portion, which binds down the extensor tendons as they descend on the front of the tibia and fibula ; and an inferior or horizontal portion, which retains them in connection with the tarsus, the two portions being connected by a thin intervening layer of fascia. The vertical portion is attached externally to the lower end of the fibula, internally to the tibia, and above is continuous with the fascia of the leg ; it con- tains only one synovial sheath, for the tendon of the Tibialis anticus ; the other tendons and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve passing beneath it, but without any distinct synovial sheath. The horizontal portion is attached externally to the upper surface of the os calcis, in front of the depression for the interosseous ligament; it passes upwards and inwards, as a double layer, one lamina passing in front, and the other behind, the Peroneus tertius and Extensor longus digitorum.