DEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIES 97 When the umbilical vesicle disappears this becomes the only source of nutrition for the embryo. The allantois carries with it two arteries, derived from branches of the primitive aorta, and two veins; these vessels become much enlarged as the placental circulation is established, but subsequently one of the veins disappears and in the later stages of uterine life the circulation is carried on between the foetus and the placenta by two arteries and one vein {u'luhilical). During the occurrence of these changes great alterations take place in the primitive heart and blood-vessels, above alluded to, which will now require descrip- tion. Further Development of the Heart.—The simple median tube, formed by the coalescence of the pair of tubes of which the primitive heart consists, becomes elongated and bent on itself, so as to form a S-shaped tube, the anterior part of the tube bending over to the right, and the posterior to the left. At the same time the middle portion is protruded forwards and arches transversely from right to left and at the same time becomes twisted on itself so that the extremity from which the arteries are prolonged is situated in front and to the right, and that into which the veins enter is behind and to the left. The bent tube then becomes divided by two transverse constrictions into three parts. One, the posterior, becomes the auricles, the middle one forms the two ventricular cavities, while the anterior forms the aortic bulb, from which the commencement of the aorta and pulmonary artery is developed. A division of each of these cavities now takes place, so as to convert them into right and left ventricle, right and left auricle, and aorta and pulmonary artery respectively. This division first takes place in the middle portion of the tubular heart, the rudimentary ventricular cavities (fig. 97, a, 5). A partition rises up from the lower part of the right wall of this cavity, and gradually grows up until it reaches the constrictions which separate it from the other two, and thus the interventricular septum is completed. At the same time a cleft appears on the outside, a little to the right of the most prominent point, which ultimately becomes the apex of the heart. The cleft becomes less marked as development progresses, but remains, to some extent, persistent throughout life, as the interventricular groove. The first appearance of a division in the posterior or auricular portion of the tubular heart makes its appearance, at a very early period of development, in the shape of two projecting pouches, one on either side ; these are the rudiments of the auricular appendages, but the actual division of the cavity by a septum does not occur until some time after the appearance of the ventricular septum. This is formed by the growth of a partition from the anterior wall of the auricular cavity, which grows backwards, and partially separates the cavity into two. The partition, however, is not completed until after birth, a part remaining undeveloped, and thus permitting of a communication {foramen ovale) between the tvv'o auricles during the whole of foetal life. In a like manner, the aortic bulb is divided into two by the growth of a septum dow^nwards, from the distal end of the bulb, which divides the cavity into the permanent aorta and the pulmonary artery. Very soon a superficial furrow appears on the external surface of this portion of the heart corresponding to the septum internally, and, becoming deeper, the two vessels are gradually separated from each other through the septum, in the imme- diate neighbourhood of the ventricular portion of the heart, whilst beyond this they still remain joined together, and give origin to the fourth and fifth aortic arches, presently to be described. Further Development of the Arteries.—In the vitelline circulation, two arteries were described as coming off from the primitive heart, and running down in front of the developing vertebrae. The first change consists in the fusion of these arteries into one at some distance from the heart, thus forming the descending thoracic and abdominal aorta. In consequence of the heart falling backwards to the lower part of the neck and then into the thorax, as the head is developed, the two original arteries, proceeding from the heart to the point of fusion in the common descending aorta, become elongated, and assume an arched form, curving H