AETEKIES 594 The gastro-duodenalis (fig. 369) is a short but large branch, which descends, near the pylorus, behind the first portion of the duodenum, and divides at the lower border of the stomach into two branches, the gastro-epiploica dextra and the pcmcreatico-duodenalis superior. Previous to its division, it gives off two or three small inferior pyloric branches to the pyloric end of the stomach and pancreas. The gastro-epiploica dextra runs from right to left along the greater curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum, anastomosing about the middle of the lower border of the stomach with the gastro-epiploica sinistra from the splenic artery. This vessel gives off numerous branches, some of which ascend to supply both surfaces of the stomach, whilst others descend to supply the great omentum. The pancreatieo-duodenalis superior descends between the contiguous margins of the duodenum and pancreas. It supplies both these organs, and anastomoses with the inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric artery, and with the pancreatic branches of the splenic. The cystic artery (fig. 368), usually a branch of the right hepatic, passes upwards and forwards along the neck of the gall-bladder, and divides into two branches, one of which ramifies on its free surface, the other between it and the substance of the liver. The Splenic Artery, in the adult, is the largest of the three branches of the coeliac axis, and is remarkable for the extreme tortuosity of its course. It passes horizontally to the left side along the upper border of the pancreas, accompanied by the splenic vein, which lies below it; and, on arriving near the spleen, divides into branches, some of which enter the hilum of that organ to be distributed to its structure, whilst others are distributed to the great end of the stomach. Its branches are, the Pancreaticae Parvae. Gastric (Vasa Brevia). Pancreatica Magna. Gastro-epiploica Sinistra. The pancreatic are numerous small branches derived from the splenic as it runs behind the upper border of the pancreas, supplying its middle and left parts. One of these, larger than the rest, is given off from the splenic near the left extremity of the pancreas ; it runs from left to right near the posterior surface of the gland, following the course of the pancreatic duct, and is called the pancreatica magna. These vessels anastomose with the pancreatic branches of the pancreatico- duodenal arteries, derived from the hepatic on the one hand and superior mesenteric on the other. The gastric (vasa brevia) consists of from five to seven small branches, which arise either from the termination of the splenic artery, or from its terminal branches; and, passing from left to right, between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum, are distributed to the great curvature of the stomach ; anastomosing with branches of the gastric and gastro-epiploica sinistra arteries. The gastro-epiploica sinistra, the largest branch of the splenic, runs from left to right along the great curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum, and anastomoses with the gastro-epiploica dextra. In its course it distributes several branches to the stomach, which ascend upon both surfaces; others descend to supply the omentum. SuPEEiOE Mesenteric Aktery (fig. 370) In order to expose this vessel, raise the great omentum and transverse colon, draw down the small intestines, and cut through the peritoneum where the transverse meso- colon and mesentery join : the artery will then be exposed, just as it issues from beneath the lower border of the pancreas. The Superior Mesenteric Artery supplies the whole length of the small intestine, except the first part of the duodenum ; it also supplies the caecum, ascending and transverse colon ; it is a vessel of large size, arising from the fore part of the