CONNECTIVE TISSUES 17 away, leaving the fibres intact. In many situations the interstices of the fibres are filled with rounded granular corpuscles, and the tissue is then termed lymphoid or adenoid tissue. The neuroglia, or Fig. 18.—Retiform connective tissue, from a lymphatic gland : most of the lymph-cor- puscles are removed. (From Klein's ' Elements of Histology.') . fine gelatinous connective tissue which supports the nervous elements in the cerebro-spinal axis and in the retina, is regarded as a modified form of the retiform connective tissue. 3. Basement-membranes, formerly described as homogeneous membranes, are really a form of connective tissue. They constitute the supporting mem- brane, or membrana propria, supporting the epithelium of mucous membranes or secreting glands, and in other situations. By meanG of staining with nitrate of silver they may be shown to consist of flattened cells in close apposition, and form therefore an example of an epi- thelioid arrangement of connective-tissue cells. In some situations the cells, in- stead of adhering by their edges, give off branching processes, which join with similar processes of other cells and so form a network, rather than a continuous membrane. Adipose Tissue.—In almost all parts of the body the ordinary areolar tissue contains a variable quantity of adipose or fatty tissue. The principal situations where it is not found are the subcutaneous tissue of the eyelids, the penis and scrotum, the nymphse, within the cavity of the cranium, and in the lungs, except near their roots. Nevertheless its distribution is not uniform, in some parts being- collected in great abundance, as in the subcutaneous tissue, especially of \ the abdomen ; around the kidneys; on the surface of the heart between the furrows, and in some other situations. Lastly, fat enters largely into the formation of the -Adipose tissue. High power. The reticulum, c. A capillaiy blood-vessel. starlike appearance, from crystallisation of fatty acids marrow of bones. A distinction must, however, be made between fat and adipose tissue ; the latter being a distinct tissue, the former an oily matter, which in addition to forming adipose tissue is also widely present in the body, as in the fat of the brain and liver, and in the blood and chyle, &c. Fat cells (fig. 19) consist of a number of vesicles, varying in size, but of about- C