THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY 515 crest of the ilium and behind the anterior superior spinous process. From its lower border, a longitudinal groove, corresponding to the ilio-tibial band, may be seen running down the outer side of the thigh to the outer side of the knee-joint. The Sartorius muscle, when it is brought into action by flexing the leg on the thigh, and the thigh on the pelvis, and rotating the thigh outwards, presents a well-marked surface form. At its upper part, where it constitutes the outer boundary of Scarpa's triangle, it forms a prominent oblique ridge, which becomes changed into a flattened plane below, and this gradually merges in a general fulness on the inner side of the knee-joint. When the Sartorius is not in action, a depression exists between the Extensor quadriceps and the xldductor muscles, running obliquely downwards and inwards from the apex of Scarpa's triangle to the inner side of the knee, which corresponds to this muscle. In the depressed angle formed by the divergence of the Sartorius and Tensor vaginae femoris muscles, just below the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, the Rectus femoris muscle appears, and, below this, determines to a great extent the convex form of the front of the thigh. In a well-developed subject, the borders of the muscle, when in action, are clearly to be defined. The Vastus externus forms a long flattened plane on the outer side of the thigh, traversed by the longitudinal groove formed by the ilio-tibial band. The Vastus internus, on the inner side of the lower half of the thigh, gives rise to a considerable prominence, which increases towards the knee and terminates somewhat abruptly in this situation with a full, curved outline. The Crureiis and Siihcrureus are completely hidden and do not directly influence surface form. The Adductor muscles, constituting the internal femoral group, are not to be individually distinguished from each other, with the exception of the upper tendon of the Adductor longus and the lower tendon of the Adductor magnus. The upper tendon of the Adductor longus, when the muscle is in action, stands out as a prominent ridge, which runs obliquely downwards and outwards from the neighbourhood of the pubic spine, and forms the inner boundary of a flattened triangular space on the upper part of the front of the thigh, known as Scarpa's triangle. The lower tendon of the Adductor magnus can be distinctly felt as a short ridge extending down to the Adductor tubercle on the internal condyle, between the Sartorius and Vastus internus. The Adductor group of muscles fills in the triangular space at the upper part of the thigh, formed between the oblique femur and the pelvic wall, and to them is due the contour of the inner border of the thigh, the Gracilis largely contributing to the smoothness of the outline. These muscles are not marked off on the surface from those of the posterior femoral region by any intermuscular marking; but on the outer side of the thigh these latter muscles are defined from the Vastus externus by a distinct marking, corresponding to the external intermuscular septum. The Gluteus maximus and a part of the Gluteus medius are the only muscles of the buttock which influence surface form. The other part of the Gluteus medius, the Gluteus minimus, and the External rotators are completely hidden. The Gluteus maximus forms the full rounded outline of the buttock ; it is more prominent behind, compressed in front, and terminates at its tendinous insertion in a depression immediately behind the great trochanter. Its lower border does not correspond to the gluteal fold, but is much more oblique, being marked by a line drawn from the side of the coccyx to the lower part of the great trochanter. From beneath the fold of the buttock, the Ha^nstring muscles appear, at first narrow and not well marked, but as they descend, becoming more prominent and widened out, and eventually dividing into two well-marked ridges, which form the upper boundaries of the popliteal space, being formed by the tendons of the inner and outer hamstring muscles respectively. In the upper part of the thigh these muscles are not to be individually distinguished from each other, but lower down, the separation between the Semitendinosus and Semimembranosus is denoted by a slight intermuscular marking. The external hamstring tendon formed by the Biceps is seen as a thick cord running down to the head of the fibula. The inner hamstring tendons comprise the Semitendinosus, the Semimembranosus, and the Gracilis. The Semitendinosus is the most internal of these, and can be felt, in certain positions of the limb, as a sharp cord; the Semimembranosus is thick, and the Gracilis is situated a little further forwards than the other two. All the muscles on the front of the leg appear to a certain extent somewhere on the surface, but the form of this region is mainly dependent upon the Tibialis anticus and the Extensor longus digitorum. The Tibialis anticus is well marked, and presents a fusiform enlargement at the outer side of the tibia, and projects beyond the crest of the shin bone. From the muscular mass, its tendon may be traced downwards, standing out boldly, when the muscle is in action, on the front of the tibia and ankle-joint, and coursing down to its insertion along the inner border of the foot. A well-marked groove separates this muscle externally from the Extensor longus digitorum, which fills up the rest of the space between the upper part of the shaft of the tibia and fibula. It does not present so bold an outline as the Tibialis anticus, and its tendon below, diverging from the tendon of the Tibialis anticus, forms a sort of plane, in which may be seen the tendon of the Extensor proprius hallucis. A. groove on the outer side of the Extensor longus digitorum, seen most plainly when the nmscle is in action, separates from it a slight eminence corresponding to the Peroneiis tertius. The fleshy fibres of the Peroneus longus are strongly marked at the upper part of the outer side of the leg, especially when the nmscle is in action. It forms a bold swelling, separated by furrows from the Extensor longus digitorum in front and the Soleus behind. Below, the L L 2