980 OEGANS OF VOICE AND KESPIKATION each other. The two pleurae do not meet in the middle line of the chest, excepting anteriorly opposite the upper part of the second piece of the sternum; a space being left between them, which contains all the viscera of the thorax excepting the lungs : this is the mediastinum. Reflections of the Pleura (fig. 576).—Commencing at the sternum, the pleura passes outwards, covers the costal cartilages, the inner surface of the ribs and Intercostal muscles, and at the back part of the thorax passes over the thoracic ganglia and their branches, and is reflected upon the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, where it is separated by a narrow interval, the 'posterior mediastinum, from the opposite pleura. From the vertebral column the pleura passes to the side of the pericardium, which it covers to a slight extent: it then covers the back part of the root of the lung, from the lower border of which a triangular fold descends vertically by the side of the posterior mediastinum to the Diaphragm. This fold is the broad ligament of the lung, the ligamentum latum pulmonis, and serves to Fig. 576.—A transverse section of the thorax, showing the relative position of the viscera, and the reflections of the pleurae. Triangularis sterni Internal niammarij vessels retain the lower part of that organ in position. Fro77i the root, the pleura may be traced over the convex surface of the lung, the summit and base, and also over the sides of the fissures between the lobes on to its anterior surface and the front part of its root; from this it is reflected upon the side of the pericardium to the inner surface of the sternum. Below, it covers the upper surface of the Diaphragm and extends, in front, as low as the costal cartilage of the seventh rib ; at the side of the chest, as low as the tenth rib on the left side, and the ninth on the right side ; and behind, it reaches as low as the twelfth rib, and sometimes even beyond it, as low as the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra. Above, its apex projects, in the form of a cul-de-sac, through the superior opening of the thorax into the neck, extending from one to two inches above the margin of the first rib, and receives the summit of the corresponding lung ; this sac is strengthened, according to Dr. Sibson, by a dome-like expansion of fascia, attached in front to the posterior border of the first rib, and behind to the anterior border of the transverse process of the