AETERIES 588 Surgical Anatomy.—The student should now consider the effects hkely to be produced by aneurism of the thoracic aorta, a disease of common occurrence. When we consider the great depth of the vessel from the surface, and the number of important structures which surround it on every side, it may easily be conceived what a variety of obscure symptoms may arise from disease of this part of the arterial system, and how they may be liable to be mistaken for those of other affections. Aneurism of the thoracic aorta most usually extends backwards, along the left side of the spine, producing absorption of the bodies of the vertebrae, with curvature of the spine ; whilst the irritation or pressure on the cord will give rise to pain, either in the chest, back, or loins, with radiating pain in the left upper intercostal spaces, from pressure on the intercostal nerves; at the same time the tumour may project backwards on each side of the spine, beneath the integu- ment, as a pulsating swelling, simulating abscess connected with diseased bone ; or it may displace the oesophagus, and compress the lung on one or the other side. If the tumour extend forward, it may press upon and displace the heart, giving rise to palpitation and other symptoms of disease of that organ; or it may displace, or even compress, the oesophagus, causing pain and difficulty of swallowing, as in stricture of that tube; and ultimately even open into it by ulceration, producing fatal haemorrhage. If the disease extends to the right side, it may press upon the thoracic duct; or it may burst mto the pleural cavity, or into the trachea or lung; and lastly, it ma}^ open into the posterior mediastinum. The pericardiac are a few small vessels, irregular in their origin, distributed to the pericardium. The bronchial arteries are the nutrient vessels of the lungs, and vary in number, size, and origin. That of the right side arises from the first aortic intercostal, or by a common trunk with the left bronchial, from the front of the thoracic aorta. Those of the left side, usually two in number, arise from the thoracic aorta, one a little lower than the other. Each vessel is directed to the back part of the corresponding bronchus along which it runs, dividing and subdividing upon the bronchial tube, supplying them, the cellular tissue of the lungs, the bronchial glands, and the oesophagus. The cesophag'eal arteries, usually four or five in number, arise from the front of the aorta, and pass obliquely downwards to the oesophagus, forming a chain of anastomoses along that tube, anastomosing with the oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid arteries above, and with ascending branches from the phrenic and gastric arteries below. The posterior mediastinal arteries are numerous small vessels which supply the glands and loose areolar tissue in the mediastinum. The Intercostal arteries arise from the back part of the aorta. They are usually eleven in number on each side, the superior intercostal space being supplied by the superior intercostal, a branch of the subclavian, and the second intercostal space being supplied by a branch from the superior intercostal joining Avith the first aortic intercostal. The lowest of these branches, the subcostal artery, underlies the last rib. The right intercostals are longer than the left, on account of the position of the aorta on the left side of the spine : they pass outwards, across the bodies of the vertebras, to the intercostal spaces, being covered by the pleura, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, sympathetic nerve, and the vena azygos major; the left passing beneath the superior intercostal vein, the vena azygos minor, and sympathetic. In the intercostal spaces, each artery divides into two branches : an anterior, or proper intercostal branch ; and a posterior, or dorsal branch.* The anterior branch passes outwards, at first lying upon the External inter- * Mr. W. J. Walsham describes a small twig as being given off from each intercostal, close to its origin. He states that they can be traced running between the neck of the rib and the transverse process of the corresponding vertebra ; they anastomose with similar twigs given oti' from the intercostal arterj^ next below. In the first and second s^iaces similar anastomosing twigs are given otf from the superior intercostal.—Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xvi. j)art iii. p. 443. Beanches of the Thoracic Aoeta Pericardiac. Bronchial. OEsophageal. Posterior Mediastinal. Intercostal.