OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY 669 superficial fascia, and are divisible into two groups : an internal group, which follow the course of the internal saphenous vein; and an external group, which accompany the external saphenous. The internal group, the larger, commence on the inner side and dorsum of the foot- they pass, some in front, and some behind the inner ankle, run up the leg with the internal saphenous vein, pass with it behind the inner condyle of the femur, and accompany it to the groin, where they terminate in the group of super- ficial inguinal lymphatic glands which surround the saphenous opening. Some of the efferent vessels from these glands pierce the cribriform fascia and sheath of the femoral vessels, and terminate in a lymphatic gland contained in the femoral canal, thus establishing a com- munication between the lymphatics of the lower extremity and those of the trunk ; others pierce the fascia lata, and join the deep inguinal glands. The ex- ternal group arise from the outer side of the foot, ascend in front of the leg, and, just below the knee, cross the tibia from without inwards, to join the lym- phatics on the inner side of the thigh. Others commence on the outer side of the foot, pass behind the outer malle- olus, and accompany the external sa- phenous vein along the back of the leg, where they enter the popliteal glands. The deep lymphatic vessels of the lower extremity are few in number, and accompany the deep blood-vessels. In the leg, they consist of three sets, the anterior tibial, peroneal, and pos- terior tibial,- which accompany the corresponding blood-vessels, two or three to each artery ; they ascend with the blood-vessels, and enter the lym- phatic glands in the popliteal space ; the efferent vessels from these glands accompany the femoral vein, and join the deep inguinal glands ; from these, the vessels pass beneath Poupart's ligament, and communicate with the chain of glands surrounding the ex- ternal iliac vessels. The deep lymphatic vessels of the gluteal and ischiatic regions follow the course of the blood-vessels, and join the gluteal and ischiatic glands at the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Fig. 398.—The superficial lymphatics and glands of the lower extremity.