83 THE PLACENTA is perforated by the openings formed by the enlarged uterine glands, which become much hypertrophied and developed into tortuous tubes. It contains at a later period numerous arteries and venous channels, continuous with the uterine sinuses, and it is from it that the uterine part of the placenta is developed. The portion of the decidua vera which takes part in the formation of the placenta is called the decidiia scrotina (fig. 87,/). The decidua reflexa is shaggy on its outer aspect, but smooth within. The vessels, which it contains at first, disappear after about the third month. About the fifth or sixth month the space between the two layers of the decidua disap- pears, and towards the end of pregnancy the decidua reflexa is transformed into a thin yellowish membrane, which constitutes the external envelope of the ovum. Much additional interest has been given to the physiology of the decidua by the fact, which seems to be now established by the researches of Dr. John Williams, that every discharge of an ovum, whether impregnated or not, is, as a rule, accompanied by the formation of a decidua, and that the essence of menstruation consists in the separation of a decidual layer of the mucous membrane from the uterus ; while in the case of pregnancy there is no exfoliation of the membrane, but, on the contrary, it undergoes further development in the manner described above. The Placenta is the organ by which the connection between the foetus and mother is maintained. It therefore subserves the purposes both of circulation and respiration. It is formed of two parts, as already shown—viz. the maternal portion, which is developed out of the decidua vera (serotina), and the foetal portion formed out of the villi of the chorion. Its shape in the human subject is that of a disc, one side of which adheres to the uterine wall, while the other is covered by the amnion. The villi of the chorion gradually enlarge, forming large projections—'cotyledons'—which each contain the ramifications of vessels com- municating with the umbilical (allantoic) arteries and veins of the foetus. These vascular tufts are covered with epithelium, and project into corresponding depres- sions in the mucous membrane (decidua vera) of the uterine wall. The maternal portion of the placenta consists of a large number of sinuses formed by an enlargement of the vessels of the uterine wall. These bring the uterine blood into close proximity with the villi of the foetal placenta, which dip into the sinuses. The interchange of fluids necessary for the growth of the foetus and for the depura- tion of the blood takes place through the walls of the villi, but there is no direct continuity between the maternal and foetal vessels. The foetal vessels form tufts of capillaries, the blood from which is returned by small veins, which end in tributaries of the umbilical vein. The maternal arteries open into spaces some- what after the manner of the arteries of the erectile tissues. These spaces communicate with a plexus of veins which anastomose freely with one another and give rise, at the edge of the placenta, to a venous channel which runs around its whole circumference—the placental sinus. The umbilical cord appears about the end of the fifth week after conception. It consists of the coils of two arteries {umbilical, originally allantoic) and a single vein, united together by a gelatinous tissue {jelly of Wharton). There are origi- nally two umbilical veins, but one of these vessels becomes obliterated, as do also the two omphalo-mesenteric arteries and veins and the duct of the umbilical vesicle, all of which are originally contained in the rudimentary cord. The per- manent structures of the cord are, therefore, furnished by the allantois. In this manner the human embryo eventually becomes surrounded by three membranes : (i) the amnion^ derived from the outer layer of the mesoblast and the epiblast; (2) the chorion, formed most probably by three layers—the allantois (which is derived from the inner layer of the mesoblast and hypoblast), the false amnion, and perhaps the vitelline membrane ; and (3) the decidua, derived from the mucous membrane of the uterus. Development of the Embryo proper.—The further development of the embryo will, perhaps, be better understood if we follow as briefly as possible the principal facts relating to the chief parts of which the body consists—viz. the spine, the