492 MUSCLES AND FASCI.E the ramus of the os pubis are very short, horizontal in direction, and are inserted into the rough line leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera, internal to the Gluteus maximus ; those from the ramus of the ischium are directed down- wards and outwards with difierent degrees of obUquity, to be inserted, by means of a broad aponeurosis, into the linea aspera and the iippei' part of its internal pro- longation below. The internal portion of the muscle, consisting principally of those fibres which arise from the tuberosity of the ischium, forms a thick fleshy mass consisting of coarse bundles which descend almost vertically, and terminate about the lower third of the thigh in a rounded tendon, which is inserted into the Adductor tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur, being connected by a fibrous expansion to the line leading upwards from the tubercle to the linea aspera. Between the two portions of the muscle an interval is left, tendinous in front, fleshy behind, for the passage of the femoral vessels into the popliteal space. The external portion of the muscle at its attachment to the femur presents three or four osseo-aponeurotic openings, formed by tendinous arches attached to the bone, from which muscular fibres arise. The three superior of these apertures are for the three perforating arteries, and the fourth, when it exists, for the terminal branch of the profunda. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the Pectineus, Adductor brevis, Adductor longus, and the femoral and profunda vessels and obturator nerve. By its i)osterior surface, with the great sciatic nerve, the Gluteus maximus. Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semimembranosus. By its superior or sJiortest border, it lies parallel with the Quadratus femoris, the internal circumflex artery passing between them. By its internal or longest border, with the Gracilis, Sartorius, and fascia lata. By its external or attached border, it is inserted into the femur behind the Adductor brevis and Adductor longus, which separate it from the Vastus internus ; and in front of the Gluteus maximus and short head of the Biceps, which separate it from the Vastus externus. Nerves.—All the muscles of this group are supplied by the obturator nerve. The Pectineus receives additional branches from the accessory obturator and anterior crural; and the Adductor magnus an additional branch from the great sciatic. Actions.—The Pectineus and three iVdductors adduct the thigh powerfully; they are especially used in horse exercise, the flanks of the horse being grasped between the knees by the actions of these muscles. In consequence of the obliquity of their insertion into the linea aspera, they rotate the thigh outwards, assisting the external Rotators, and when the limb has been abducted, they draw it inwards, carrying the thigh across that of the opposite side. The Pectineus and Adductor brevis and longus assist the Psoas and Iliacus in flexing the thigh upon the pelvis. In progression, also, all these muscles assist in drawing forwards the hinder limb. The Gracilis assists the Sartorius in flexing the leg and rotating it inwards ; it is also an adductor of the thigh. If the lower extremities are fixed, these muscles may take their fixed point from below and act upon the pelvis, serving to maintain the body in an erect posture ; or, if their action is continued, to flex the pelvis forwards upon the femur. Siirr/ical A)icdomj/.—The Adductor longus is liable to be severely strained in those who ride much on horseback, or its tendon to be ruptured by suddenly gripping the saddle. And, occasionally, especially in ca\alry soldiers, the tendon may become ossified, con- stitutinf^ the ' rider's bone.' Gluteal Region Gluteus maxinnis. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus. Pyriformis. Gemellus superior. Obturator internus. Gemellus inferior. Obturator externus. Quadratus femoris.