OF THE THORAX 419 Muscles and Fascia of the Thorax The Muscles exclusively connected with the bones in this region are few in number. They are the Intercostales externi. Infracostales. Intercostales interni. Triangularis sterni. Levatores costarum. Intercostal fasciae.—A thin but firm layer of fascia covers the outer surface of the External intercostal and the inner surface of the Internal intercostal muscles ; and a third layer, the middle intercostal fascia, more delicate, is interposed between the two planes of muscular fibres. These are the intercostal fasciae ; they are best marked in those situations where the muscular fibres are deficient, as between the External intercostal muscles and sternum, in front; and between the Internal intercostals and spine, behind. The Intercostal muscles (fig. 299) are two thin planes of muscular and tendinous fibres, placed one over the other, filling up the intercostal spaces, and being directed obliquely between the margins of the adjacent ribs. They have received the name ' external' and ' internal,' from the position they bear to one another. The tendinous fibres are longer and more numerous than the muscular ; hence the walls of the intercostal spaces possess very considerable strength, to which the crossing of the muscular fibres materially contributes. The External intercostals are eleven in number on each side. They extend from the tubercles of the ribs, behind, to the commencement of the cartilages of the ribs, in front, where they terminate in a thin membranous aponeurosis, which is continued forwards to the sternum. They arise from the lower border of each rib, and are inserted into the upper border of the rib below. In the two lowest spaces they extend to the end of the cartilages. Their fibres are directed obliquely downwards and forwards, in a similar direction with those of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen. They are thicker than the Internal intercostals. Relations.—By their outer surface, with the muscles which immediately invest the chest, viz. the Pectoralis major and minor, Serratus magnus, and Rhomboideus major, Serratus posticus superior and inferior. Scalenus posticus, Ilio-costalis, Longissimus dorsi, Cervicalis ascendens, Transversalis colli, Levatores costarum, and the Obliquus externus abdominis. By their internal stirface, with the middle intercostal fascia, which separates them from the intercostal vessels and nerve, and the Internal intercostal muscles, and, behind, from the pleura. The Internal intercostals are also eleven in number on each side. They commence anteriorly at the sternum, in the interspaces between the cartilages of the true ribs, and from the anterior extremities of the cartilages of the false ribs, and extend backwards as far as the angles of the ribs ; whence they are continued to the vertebral column by a thin aponeurosis. They arise from the ridge on the inner surface of each rib, as well as from the corresponding costal cartilage, and are inserted into the upper border of the rib below. Their fibres are directed obliquely downwards and backwards passing in the opposite direction to the fibres of the External intercostal muscle. Relations.—By their external surface, with the intercostal vessels and nerves, and the middle intercostal fascia, which separates them from the External inter- costal muscles. By their internal surface, with the internal intercostal fascia, which separates them from the pleura costalis, Triangularis sterni, and Diaphragm. The Infracostales (subcostales) consist of muscular and aponeurotic fasciculi, which vary in number and length : they are placed on the inner surface of the ribs, where the Internal intercostal muscles cease ; they arise from the inner surface of one rib, and are inserted into the inner surface of the first, second, or third rib below. Their direction is most usually oblique, like the Internal intercostals. They are most frequent between the lower ribs. E E 2