THE SKELETON 266 than the outer, and if the Quadriceps extensor is relaxed, the bone can be moved from side to side and appears to be loosely fixed. If the joint is flexed, the patella recedes into the hollow between the condyles of the femur and the upper end of the tibia, and becomes firmly fixed against the femur. Surgical Anatomy.—The main surgical interest about the patella is in connection with fractures, which are of common occurrence. They may be produced by muscular action, that is to say, by violent contraction of the Quadriceps extensor, while the limb is in a position of semi-flexion, so that the bone is snapped across the condyles; or by direct violence, such as falls on the knee. In the former class of cases the fractm-e is transverse ; in the latter it may be oblique, longitudinal, stellate, or the bone variously comminuted. The principal interest in these cases attaches to their treatment. Owing to the wide separation of the fragments, and the difficulty there is in maintaining them in apposition, union takes place by fibrous tissue, and this may subsequently stretch, producing wide separation of the fragments and permanent lameness. Various plans, including opening the joint and suturing the fragments, have been advocated for overcoming this difficulty. In the larger number of cases of fracture of the patella, the knee-joint is involved, the carti- lage which covers its posterior surface being also torn. In some cases of fracture from direct violence, however, this need not necessarily happen, the lesion involving only the superficial part of the bone ; and, as Morris has pointed out, it is an anatomical possibility, in complete fracture, if the lesion involve only the lower and non-articular part of the bone, for it to take place without injury to the synovial membrane. The Tibia (figs. 220, 221) The Tibia (tibia, a flute or pipe) is situated at the front and inner side of the leg, and, excepting the femur, is the longest and largest bone in the skeleton. It is prismoid in form, expanded above, where it enters into the knee-joint, more slightly enlarged below. In the male, its direction is vertical, and parallel with the bone of the opposite side ; but in the female it has a slightly oblique direction downwards and outwards, to compensate for the oblique direction of the femur inwards. It presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. The Upper Extremity, or Head, is large, and expanded on each side into two lateral eminences, the tuberosities. Superiorly, the tuberosities present two smooth, concave surfaces, which articulate with the condyles of the femur ; the internal, articular surface is longer, deeper, and narrower than the external, oval from before backwards, to articulate with the internal condyle; the external one is broader, flatter, and more circular, to articulate with the external condyle. Between the two articular surfaces, and nearer the posterior than the anterior aspect of the bone, is an eminence, the spinous process of the tibia, surmounted by a prominent tubercle on each side, which gives attachment to the extremities of the semilunar fibro-cartilages; in front and behind the spinous process is a rough depression for the attachment of the anterior and posterior crucial ligaments and the semilunar fibro-cartilages. The anterior surfaces of the tuberosities are continuous Avith one another, forming a single large surface, which is somewhat flattened : it is triangular, broad above, and perforated by large vascular foramina ; narrow below where it terminates in a prominent oblong elevation of large size, the tubercle of the tibia ; the lower half of this tubercle is rough, for the attachment of the ligamentum patellae ; the upper half presents a smooth facet supporting, in the recent state, a bursa which separates the ligament from the bone. Posteriorly the tuberosities are separated from each other by a shallow depression, the popliteal notch, which gives attachment to part of the posterior crucial ligament, and part of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The inner tuberosity presents posteriorly a deep transverse groove, for the insertion of one of the fasciculi of the tendon of the Semi-membranosus. Its lateral surface is convex, rough and prominent: it gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament. The outer tuber- osity presents posteriorly a flat articular facet, nearly circular in form, directed downwards, backwards, and outwards, for articulation wdth the fibula. Its lateral surface is convex and rough, more prominent in front than the internal: it presents a prominent rough eminence, situated on a level with the upper border of the tubercle of the tibia, for the attachment of the ilio-tibial band. Just below this the Extensor longus digitorum and a slip from the Biceps are attached.