821 PELVIC PLEXUS accompanies into the mesentery, and divides into a number of secondary plexuses, which are distributed to all the parts supplied by the artery, viz. pancreatic branches to the pancreas ; intestinal branches, which supply the whole of the small intestine ; and ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic branches, which supply the corresponding parts of the great intestine. The nerves composing this plexus are white in colour and firm in texture, and have numerous ganglia developed upon them near their origin. The aortic plexus is formed by branches derived, on each side, from the solar plexus and the semilunar ganglia, receiving filaments from some of the lumbar ganglia. It is situated upon the sides and front of the aorta, between the origins of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. From this plexus arise part of the spermatic, the inferior mesenteric, and the hypogastric plexuses; and it distributes filaments to the inferior vena cava. The inferior mesenteric plexus is derived chiefly from the left side of the aortic plexus. It surrounds the inferior mesenteric artery, and divides into a number of secondary plexuses, which are distributed to all the parts supplied by the artery, viz. the left colic and sigmoid plexuses, which supply the descending and sigmoid flexure of the colon: and the superior haemorrhoidal plexus, which supplies the upper part of the rectum, and joins in the pelvis with branches from the pelvic plexus. Hypogasteic Plexus The Hypogastric Plexus supplies the viscera of the pelvic cavity. It is situated in front of the promontory of the sacrum, between the two common iliac arteries, and is formed by the union of numerous filaments, which descend on each side from the aortic plexus, and from the lumbar ganglia. This plexus contains no ganglia ; and bifurcates, below, into two lateral portions, which form the 'pelvic plexuses. Pelvic Plexus The Pelvic Plexus (sometimes called inferior hypogastric) supplies the viscera of the pelvic cavity, is situated at the side of the rectum and bladder in the male, and at the side of the rectum, vagina, and bladder in the female. It is formed by a continuation of the hypogastric plexus, by branches from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves, and by a few filaments from the first two sacral ganglia. At the point of junction of these nerves, small ganglia are found. From this plexus numerous branches are distributed to all the viscera of the pelvis. They accompany the branches of the internal iliac artery. The inferior haemorrhoidal plexus arises from the back part of the pelvic plexus. It supplies the rectum, joining with branches of the superior haemor- rhoidal plexus. The vesical plexus arises from the fore part of the pelvic plexus. The nerves composing it are numerous, and contain a large proportion of spinal nerve-fibres. They accompany the vesical arteries, and are distributed at the side and base of the bladder. Numerous filaments also pass to the vesiculae seminales and vas deferens ; those accompanying the vas deferens join, on the spermatic cord, with branches from the spermatic plexus. The prostatic plexus is continued from the lower part of the pelvic plexus. The nerves composing it are of large size. They are distributed to the pro- state gland, vesicul^ seminales, and erectile structure of the penis. The nerves supplying the erectile structure of the penis consist of two sets, the small and large cavernous nerves. They are slender filaments, which arise from the fore part of the prostatic plexus, and, after joining with branches from the internal pudic nerve, pass forwards beneath the pubic arch. The small cavernous nerves perforate the fibrous covering of the penis, near its roots. The large cavernous nerve passes forwards along the dorsum of the penis,