ORGANS OF DIGESTION the greater and lesser cavities, and their communication through the foramen of Winslow can be demonstrated. Commencing in the middle hne of the abdomen, the membrane may be traced Hning its anterior wall, and on the right side sending a process backwards to encircle the obliterated umbilical vein (the round ligament of the liver), forming the falciform or longitudinal ligament of the liver. Con- tinuing its course to the right, it is reflected over the front of the upper part of the right kidney, across the vena cava inferior and aorta, and over the left kidney to the hilum of the spleen. From this point it is reflected on to the posterior surface of the stomach, which it covers, and from its right extremity it passes around the vessels passing to the transverse fissure of the liver, and back again to the stomach, as the lesser omentum, and thus it forms the anterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow. It now covers the front of the stomach, and upon reaching the cardiac extremity it passes to the spleen, which it encloses, forming the gastro- splenic omentum. From the hilum of the spleen it turns backwards to reach the abdominal wall, along which it courses to reach the median line of the abdomen. The foramen of Winslow is bounded, in fi^ont, hy the lesser omentum, enclosing Fig. 525.—Transverse section of peritoneum. (An arrow has been introduced into the foramen of Winslow.) LE.SSER HE.PATIC ARTERY; CRUR/N OF DIAPHRAGM the vena portge and the hepatic artery and duct; heliind, by the inferior vena cava; above, by the lobulus Spigelii and lobulus caudatus ; heloiv, by the hepatic artery curving forwards from the coeliac axis. The reflections of the peritoneum over the transverse colon are somewhat differently described by some authors (Luschka, Holden), and there is no doubt, as was long ago pointed out by Haller, that the arrangement in the foetus is different from that which has been described above. In the foetus, and even in the young child, the two ascending layers of the great omentum can be traced passing together over the transverse colon, instead of embracing it, as described above, and passing back to the spine as a double fold, which can be separated from the transverse colon and transverse meso-colon. Upon reaching the spine the two layers separate : the upper one (the inner of the two ascending layers of the great omentum) passes upwards in front of the pancreas and crura of the Diaphragm, forming the posterior boundary of the lesser bag of the peritoneum, in a similar manner to the upper layer of the transverse meso-colon in the former description. The other fold (the outer of the ascending layer of the great omentum), after reaching the spine, is urned forwards again on itself as far as the transverse colon, which it covers, and