891 THE MOUTH between its crypts, and a large number in the soft palate. These glands are of the ordinary compound racemose type. Surface Form.—The orifice of the mouth is bounded by the lips : two thick, fleshy folds covered externally hy integument and mternally by mucous membrane, and consisting of muscles, vessels, nerves, areolar tissue, and numerous small glands. The size of the orifice of the mouth varies considerablj- in different individuals, but seems to bear a close relation to the size and prominence of the teeth. Its corners correspond pretty accurately to the outer border of the canine teeth. In the Mongolian tribes, where the front teeth are large and inclined forward, the mouth is large; and this, combined with the thick and everted lips, Avhich appear to be associated with prominent teeth, gives to the Negro's face much of the peculiarity by which it is characterised. The smaller teeth, and the slighter prominence of the alveolar arch of the more highly civilised races, render the orifice of the mouth much smaller, and thus a small mouth is an indication of intelligence, and is regarded as an evidence of the higher civilisation of the individual. Upon looking into the mouth, the first thing we may note is the tongue, the upper surface of which will be seen occupying the floor of the cavity. This surface is convex, and is marked along the middle line by a raphe, which divides it into two symmetrical portions. The anterior two-thirds is rough and studded with papillae ; the posterior third smooth and tuberculated, covered by numerous glands which project from the surface. Upon raising the tongue, the mucous membrane which invests the upper surface may be traced covering the sides of the under sm-face and then reflected over the floor of the mouth on to the inner surface of the lower jaw, a part of which it covers. As it passes over the borders of the tongue it changes its character, becoming thin and smooth, and losing the papillae which are to be seen on the upper surface. In the middle line the mucous membrane on the under surface of the tip of the tongue forms a distinct fold, the frcenum linguce, by which this organ is connected to the symphysis of the jaw. Occasionally it is found that this fraenum is rather shorter than natural, and, acting as a bridle, prevents the complete protrusion of the tongue. When this condition exists and an attempt is made to protrude the organ, the tip will be seen to remain buried in the floor of the mouth, and the dorsum of the tongue is rendered very convex, and more or less extruded from the mouth : at the same time a deep furrow will be noticed to appear in the middle line of the anterior part of the dorsum. Sometimes, a little external to the fraenum, the ranine vein may be seen immediately beneath the mucous membrane. The corresponding artery, being more deeply placed, does not come into view, nor can its pulsation be felt with the finger. On either side of the fraenum, in the floor of the mouth, is a longitudinal elevation or ridge, produced by the projection of the sublingual gland, which lies immedi- ately beneath the mucous membrane. And close to the attachment of the fraenum to the tip of the tongue may be seen on either side the slit-like orifices of AVharton's ducts, into which a fine probe may be passed without much difficulty. By everting the lips the smooth mucous membrane lining them may be examined, and may be traced from them on to the outer surface of the alveolar arch. In the middle line, both of the upper and lower lip, a small fold of mucous membrane passes from the lip to the bone, constituting the frcena ; these are not so large as the fraenum linguae. By pulling outwards the angle of the mouth the mucous membrane lining the cheeks can be seen, and on it may be perceived a little papilla which marks the position of the orifice of Stenson's duct—the duct of the parotid g^land. The exact position of the orifice of the duct will be found to be opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The introduction of a probe into this duct is attended with considerable difficulty. The teeth are the next objects which claim our attention upon looking into the mouth. There are, as stated above, ten in either jaw in the temporary set, and sixteen in the permanent set. The gums, in which they are implanted, are dense, firm, and vascular. At the back of the mouth is seen the isthmus of the fances, or, as it is popularly called, ' the throat': this is the space between the pillars of the fauces on either side, and is the means by which the mouth connnunicates with the pharynx. Above, it is bounded by the soft palate, the anterior surface of which is concave and covered with mucous membrane, which is continuous with that lining the roof of the mouth. Projecting from the middle of its lower border is a conical-shaped projection, the uvula. On either side of the isthmus of the fauces are the anterior and posterior pillars, formed by the Palato-glossus and Palato- pharyngeu3 muscles respectively, covered over by mucous membrane. Between the two pillars on either side is situated the tonsil. By their external surface these glands are in close relationship with the internal carotid artery, being separated from this vessel only by the thin plane of muscular fibres forming the wall of the pharynx. It is stated that this vessel may be woimded in removing the tonsil. The extirpation of this glandular body is not unattended with danger of haemorrhage from other sources. Dr. Weir has stated that he believes that when haemorrhage occurs after their removal, it arises from one of the palatine arteries having been wounded. These vessels are large : they lie in the muscular tissue of the palate, and when wounded are constantly exposed to disturbance from the contraction of the palatine muscles. The vessels of the tonsil. Dr. Weir states, are small, and lie in the soft tissue, and readily contract when wounded. When the mouth is wide open a prominent tense fold of mucous membrane may be