THE UEINARY ORGANS I002 running along the entire length of the sides of the pyramids ; and, having received in their course the efferent vessels from the Malpighian bodies in the cortical structure adjacent, quit the kidney substance to enter the sinus. In this cavity they inosculate with the corresponding veins from the outer pyramids to form the renal vein, which emerges from the kidney at the hilum and opens into the inferior vena cava ; the left being longer than the right, from having to cross in front of the abdominal aorta. Nerves of the Kidney.—The nerves of the kidney, although small, are about fifteen in number. They have small ganglia developed upon them, and are derived from the renal plexus, which is formed by branches from tjie solar plexus, the lower and outer part of the semilunar ganglion and aortic plexus, and from the lesser and smallest splanchnic nerves. They communicate with the spermatic plexus, a circumstance which may explain the occurrence of pain in the testicle in affections of the kidney. So far as they have been traced, they seem to accompany the renal artery and its branches, but their exact mode of termination is not known. The lympliatics consist of a superficial and deep set which terminate in the lumbar glands. Connective tissiie, or intertuhular stroma.—-Although the tubules and vessels are closely packed, a certain small amount of connective tissue, continuous with the capsule, binds them firmly together. This tissue was first described by Goodsir, and subsequently by Bowman. Ludwig and Zawarykin have observed distinct fibres passing around the Malpighian bodies ; and Henle has seen them between the straight tubes composing the medullary structure. Surface Form.—The kidneys, being situated at the back part of the abdominal cavity and deeply placed, cannot be felt unless enlarged or misplaced. They are situated on the confines of the epigastric and umbilical regions internally, with the hj'pochondriac and Imnbar regions externally. The left is somewhat higher than the right. According to Morris, the position of the kidney ma.}^ be thus defined: Anteriorly. ' i. A horizontal line through the umbilicus is below the lower edge of each kidne}-. 2. A vertical line carried upwards to the costal arch from the middle of Poupart's ligament has one third of the kidney to its outer side, and two thirds to its inner side, i.e. between this line and the median line of the bod3\' In adopting these lines it must be borne in mind that the axes of the kidneys are not vertical, but oblique, and if continued upwards would meet about the ninth dorsal vertebra. Posteriorly. The upper end of the left kidney would be defined by a line drawn horizontally outwards from the spinous process of the eleventh dorsal vertebra, and its lower end by a point two inches above the iliac crest. The right kidney would be half to three-quarters of an inch lower. Morris lays down the following rules for indicating the position of the kidney on the posterior surface of the body: ' i. A line parallel with, and one inch from, the spine between the lower edge of the tip of the spinous process of the eleventh dorsal vertebra, and the lower edge of the spinous process of the third lumbar vertebra. 2. A line from the top of this first hue outwards at right angles to it for 2| inches. 3. A line from the lower end of the first transversel}' outwards for 2f inches. 4. A line parallel to the first, and connecting the outer extremities of the second and third lines just described.' The hilum of the kidney lies about two inches fi^om the middle line of the back at the level of the spinous process of the first lumbar vertebra. Surgical Anatomy.—The kidney is embedded in a large qitantit}^ of loose fatty tissue, and is but slightly covered bj^ peritoneam ; hence rupture of this organ is not nearly so serious an accident as rupture of the liver or spleen, since the extravasation of blood and urine which follows is outside the peritoneal cavity. Occasionally the kidney may be bruised'by blows in the loin, or by being compressed between the lower ribs and the ilium when the body is violently bent forwards. This is followed by a little transient hsematuria, which, however, speedily passes off. Occasionally, when rupture involves the pelvis of the kidney or the commencement of the ureter, this duct may become blocked, and hydro-nephrosis follow. The loose cellular tissue around the kidney may be the seat of suppuration, constituting perinejjhritic abscess. This may be due to injur}', to disease of the kidney itself, or to extension of inflammation from neighbouring parts. It may burst into the pleura, constituting empyema; into the colon or bladder; or may point externally in the groin or loin. Tumours of the kidney, of which perhaps sarcoma, in children, is the most common, may be recognised by their position and fixity ; by the resonant colon lying in, front of it; by their not moving with respiration ; and by their rounded outline not presenting a notched anterior margin like the spleen, with which they are most likely to