NEKVOUS SYSTEM 702 The superior temporo-sphoioidal convolution is situated between the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius and the superior temporo-sphenoidal sulcus. It is continuous behind with the supramarginal convolution. The middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution is situated between the superior and middle sulci of the same name, and is continuous behind with the angular and middle occipital convolutions. The inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolution is situated below the middle temporo-sphenoidal sulcus, and is separated from the external occipito-temporal convolution, on the under surface of the hemisphere, by a sulcus which is called the inferior temporo-sphenoidal sulcus. It is connected with the inferior occipital convolution. The central lobe, or island of Reil (fig. 417), is situated in the fissure of Sylvius, at the base of the brain; it is separated, in front, from the posterior orbital convo- lution by a nearly transverse sulcus, the anterior sulcus of Bcil; externally, from the inferior frontal convolution and the lower ends of the ascending frontal and parietal convolutions, by another deep sulcus, the external sulcus of Beil ; and posteriorly, from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, by a third sulcus, the posterior sulcus of Reil. Fig. 418.—Convolutions and fissnres of the inner surface of the cerebral hemisphere. It is a triangular-shaped prominent cluster of about six convolutions, the ijyri operti, so called from being covered in by the fissure. By the removal of these convolutions the extraventricular part of the corpus striatum would be reached. On the inner or median surface of the hemispheres the arrangement of the convolutions is less complex; they are generally well defined, and some of them being of great length, there is not the same subdivision into smaller lobes as on the external surface (fig. 418). The fissures on the internal surface are five in number, and are named the calloso-marginal, the parieto-occipital, the calcarine, the collateral, and the dentate. The calloso-marginal fissure is seen in front, commencing below the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum ; it at first runs forwards and u^Dwards parallel with the rostrum of the corpus callosum, and, winding round the genu of that body, it continues from before backwards, between the upper margin of the hemisphere and the convolution of the corpus callosum, to about midway between the anterior and posterior extremities of the brain, where it turns upw^ards to reach the upper margin of the inner surface of the hemisphere a short distance behind the superior extremity of the furrow of Kolando. It separates the marginal convolution from the gyrus fornicatus or convolution of the corpus callosum.