2l8 THE SKELETON in front a smooth, concave surface, over which passes the Subscapnlaris muscle. The horizontal portion is flattenecl from above downwards ; its upper surface is convex and irregular, and gives attachment to the Pectoralis minor; its under surface is smooth ; its inner border is rough, and gives attachment to the Pectoralis minor ; its outer border is also rough for the coraco-acromial ligament, while the apex is embraced by the conjoined tendon of origin of the short head of the Biceps and of the Coraco-brachialis. At the inner side of the root of the coracoid process is a rough impression for the attachment of the conoid ligament; and running from it obliquely forwards and outwards, on the upper surface of the horizontal portion, an elevated ridge for the attachment of the trapezoid ligament. Structure.—In the head, processes, and all the thickened parts of the bone, the scapula is composed of cancellous tissue, while in the rest of its extent it is composed of a thin layer of dense, compact tissue. The centre and upper part of Fig. 196.—Plan of the develox)ment of the scapula. By seven centres. The epiphyses (except one for the coracoid process) appear from fifteen to seventeen years, and unite between twenty-tw^o and twenty-five years of age. the dorsum, but especially the former, are usually so thin as to be semi-transparent; occasionally the bone is found wanting in this situation, and the adjacent muscles come into contact. Development (fig. 196).—By seven centres: one for the body, two for the coracoid process, two for the acromion, one for the vertebral border, and one for the inferior angle. Ossification of the body of the scapula commences about the second month of fcetal life, by the formation of an irregular quadrilateral plate of bone, immediately behind the glenoid cavity. This plate extends itself so as to form the chief part of the bone, the spine growing up from its posterior surface about the third month. At birth, the chief part of the scapula is osseous, only the coracoid and acromion processes, the posterior border, and inferior angle, being cartilaginous. About