673 OF THE THORAX stomach, accompanying the vasa brevia, and enter the splenic lymphatic glands. The third group run along the greater curvature with the right gastro-epiploic vessels, and terminate at the root of the mesentery in one of the principal lacteal vessels. The lymphatic glands of the spleen occupy the hilum. Its lymphatic vessels consist of two sets, superficial and deep ; the former are placed beneath its peritoneal covering, the latter in the substance of the organ ; they accompany the blood-vessels, passing through a series of small glands, and, after receiving the lymphatics from the pancreas, ultimately pass into the thoracic duct. The Lymphatic System of the Intestines The lymphatic glands of the small intestine are placed between the layers of the mesentery, occupying the meshes formed by the superior mesenteric vessels, and hence called mesenteric glands. They vary in number from a hundred to a hundred and fifty; and in size, from that of a pea to that of a small almond. These glands are most numerous, and largest above, near the duodenum, and below, opposite the termination of the ileum in the colon. This latter group becomes enlarged and infiltrated with deposit in cases of fever accompanied with ulceration of the intestines. The lymphatic glands of the large intestine are much less numerous than the mesenteric glands ; they are situated along the vascular arches formed by the arteries previous to their distribution, and even sometimes upon the intestine itself. They are fewest in number along the transverse colon, where they form an uninterrupted chain with the mesenteric glands. The lymphatic vessels of the small intestine are called lacteals from the milk-white fluid they usually contain ; they consist of two sets, superficial and deep : the former lie between the layers of the muscular coat and between the muscular and peritoneal coats, taking a longitudinal course along the outer side of the intestine ; the latter occupy the submucous tissue, and course transversely round the intestine, accompanied by the branches of the mesenteric vessels; they pass between the layers of the mesentery, enter the mesenteric glands, and finally unite to form two or three large trunks which terminate in the thoracic duct. The lymphatic vessels of the large intestine consist of two sets : those of the caecum, ascending and transverse colon, which, after passing through their proper glands, enter the mesenteric glands; and those of the descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum, which pass to the lumbar glands. The Lymphatics of the Thokax The Lymphatic Glands of the Thoracic Wall are, the intercostal, internal mammary, anterior mediastinal, and posterior mediastinal. The intercostal glands are small, irregular in number, and situated on each side of the spine, near the costo-vertebral articulations, some being placed between the two planes of intercostal muscles. The internal mammary glands are placed at the anterior extremity of each intercostal space, by the side of the internal mammary vessels. The anterior mediastinal glands are placed in the loose areolar tissue of the anterior mediastinum, some lying upon the Diaphragm in front of the pericardium, and others round the great vessels at the base of the heart. The posterior mediastinal glands are situated in the areolar tissue in the posterior mediastinum, forming a continuous chain by the side of the aorta and oesophagus ; they communicate on each side with the intercostal, below with the lumbar, and above with the deep cervical glands. The Superficial Lymphatic Vessels of the Front of the Thorax run across the great Pectoral muscle, and those on the back part of this cavity lie upon the Trapezius and Latissimus dorsi; they all converge to the axillary glands. The X X