384 MUSCLES AND FASCIA Surgical Anatomy.—It is essential to remember the direction of the fibres of the Platysma, in connection with the operation of bleeding from the external jugular vein ; for if the point of the lancet is introduced in the direction of the muscular fibres, the orifice made will be filled up by the contraction of the muscle, and blood will not fiow ; but if the incision is made across the course of the fibres, they will retract, and expose the orifice in the vein, and so allow the flow of blood. Relations.—By its external surface, with the integument, to which it is united more closely below than above. By its internal surface, with the Pectoralis major, Deltoid, and Trapezius, and with the clavicle. In the neck, w^ith the external and anterior jugular veins, the deep cervical fascia, the superficial branches of the cervical plexus, the Sterno-mastoid, Sterno-hyoid, Omo-hyoid, and Digastric muscles. Behind the Sterno-mastoid muscle, it covers the Scaleni muscles and the nerves of the brachial plexus. On the face, it is in relation with the parotid gland, the facial artery and vein, and the Masseter and Buccinator muscles. Action.—The Platysma myoides produces a slight wrinkling of the surface of the skin of the neck, in an oblique direction, when the entire muscle is brought into action. Its anterior portion, the thickest part of the muscle, depresses the lower jaw ; it also serves to draw down the lower lip and angle of the mouth on each side, being one of the chief agents in the expression of melancholy. The Deep Cervical Fascia (fig. 275) is a strong, fibrous layer, which invests the muscles of the neck, and encloses the vessels and nerves. It commences, as an extremely thin layer, at the back part of the neck, where it is attached to the ligamentum nuch^e and to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebrae, and, passing forwards, invests the Trapezius muscle; from the anterior border of this muscle it forms a layer, which covers in the posterior triangle of the neck; and, passing forwards to the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, divides into two layers, one of which passes in front, and the other behind, that muscle. The layer which passes in front of. the muscle is continued forwards to the front of the neck, and blends with the fascia of the opposite side, covering the anterior triangle. It is joined on its under surface, except for about an inch below, by a lamella derived from the layer covering the posterior surface of the Sterno-mastoid muscle. Where these two layers do not meet, a little space is left between them, as they both pass inwards to the middle line of the neck. This is Burns's sxjace, and contains a little areolar tissue and fat, and occasionally a small lymphatic gland. If traced upwards, the anterior layer of the cervical fascia is found to pass across the parotid gland and Masseter muscle, forming the iKtroticl and masseteric fasci(B, and is attached to the low^er border of the zygoma, and, more anteriorly, to the lower border of the body of the jaw ; if traced downwards, it is seen to pass to the upper border of the clavicle and sternum, being pierced just above the former bone by the external jugular vein. In the middle line of the neck, the fascia is connected to the symphysis of the inferior maxilla, and, lower down, to the hyoid bone, between which points it is thin ; below the hyoid bone it becomes thicker, and is attached below to the anterior margin of the upper border of the sternum. The layer of the deep cervical fascia which passes behind the Sterno-mastoid covers the anterior surface of the Scalenus anticus muscle. At the outer side of the carotid vessels it divides into two, one layer passing in front of the vessels, the other behind them. The layer which passes in front of the vessels again divides into three lamellae. Of these, the anterior lamella, except for an inch below where it forms the posterior boundary of Burns's space, joins the layer of cervical fascia passing in front of the Sterno-mastoid, and w4th it passes to the middle line covering the anterior surface of the Depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. The portion of this lamella which invests the Omo-hyoid is continued downwards as a distinct process, which descends to be inserted into the sternum and cartilage of the first rib, and becomes connected with the Costo-coracoid membrane. The middle lamella passes behind the depressors of the hyoid bone and in front of the thyroid body to meet its fellow of the opposite side, in front of the trachea. At