THE FASCIA TRANSVERSALIS 1051 The Transversalis muscle has been previously described (page 430). The part which is now exposed is partly muscular and partly tendinous in structure ; this portion arises from the outer third of Poupart's Hgament, its fibres curve down- wards and inwards, and are inserted together with those of the Internal oblique into the lower part of the linea alba, into the crest of the os pubis and pectineal line, forming what is known as the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis. Between the lower border of this muscle and Poupart's ligament, a space is left in which is seen the fascia transversalis. The inguinal or spermatic canal contains the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. It is an obHque canal, about an inch and a half in length, directed downwards and inwards, and placed parallel with, and a little above, Poupart's Hgament. It commences, above, at the internal abdominal ring, which is the point where the cord enters the spermatic canal; and terminates, below, at the external ring. It is bounded, in front, by the integument and Fig. 623.—Inguinal hernia, showing the Transversahs muscle, the transversahs fascia, and the internal abdominal ring. superficial fascia, by the aponeurosis of the External oblique throughout its whole length, and by the Internal oblique for its outer third ; behind, by the triangular ligament, the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis, trans- versalis fascia, and the subperitoneal fat and peritoneum ; above, by the arched fibres of the Internal oblique and Transversalis ; beloiv, by the union of the fascia transversalis with Poupart's ligament. That form of protrusion in which the intestine follows the course of the spermatic cord along the spermatic canal is called oblique inguinal hernia. The fascia transversalis is a thin aponeurotic membrane, which lies between the inner surface of the Transversalis muscle and the peritoneum. It forms part of the general layer of fascia which lines the interior of the abdominal and pelvic cavities, and is directly continuous with the iliac and pelvic fasciae. In the inguinal region, the transversalis fascia is thick and dense in structure, and joined by fibres from the aponeurosis of the Transversalis muscle; but it