834 ORGANS OF SENSE part s. Inflammation of this part is therefore very painful, on account of the tension. It is largely supplied with blood, and, the circulation here being terminal, vascular engorgement is liable to occur, esi^ecially in women at the menopause, and in both sexes fi^om disorders of digestion, exposure to cold, etc. The skin of the nose also contains a large number of sebaceous follicles, and these, as the result of intemperance, are apt to become affected and the nose reddened, congested, and irregularly swollen. To this the term ' grog-blossom ' is popularly applied. In some of these cases there is enormous hypertrophy of the skin and subcutaneous tissues, producing pendulous masses, termed lipomata nasi. Epithelioma and rodent ulcer may attack the nose, the latter being the more common of the two. Lupus and syphilitic ulceration frequently attack the nose, and may destroy the whole of the cartilaginous portion. In fact, lupus vulgaris begins more frequently on the ala of the nose than in any other situation. Cases of congenital occlusion of one or both nostrils, or adhesion between the ala and septum, may occur and may require immediate operation, since the obstruction much interferes with sucking. Bony closure of the posterior nares may also occur. To examine the nasal cavities, the head should be thrown back and the nose drawn upwards, the parts being dilated by some form of speculum. It can also be examined with the little finger or a probe, and in this way foreign bodies detected. A still more extensive examination can be made by Eouge's operation, which was introduced for the cure of ozcena, by the removal of any dead bone which may be present in this disease. The whole framework of the nose is lifted up by an incision made inside the mouth, through the junction of the upper lip Avith the bone; the septum nasi and the lateral cartilages are divided with strong scissors till the anterior nares are completely exposed. The posterior nares can be explored by reflected light from the mouth, by which the posterior nares can be illuminated. The examination is very difficult to carry out, and, as a rule, sufficient information regarding the presence of foreign bodies or tumours in the naso-pharynx can be obtained by the introduction of the finger behind the soft palate through the mouth. The septum of the nose may Be displaced or deviate from the middle line : this may be the result of an injury or from some congenital defect in its development. Sometimes the deviation may be so great that the septum may come in contact with the outer wall of the nasal fossEe, and may even become adherent to it, thus producing complete obstruction. Perforation of the septum is not an uncommon affection, and may arise from several causes: syphilitic or tubercular ulceration, blood tumour or abscess of the septum, and especially in workmen exposed to the vapour of bichromate of potash, from the irritating and corrosive action of the fumes. When small, the perforation may cause a peculiar whistling sound during respiration. When large, it may lead to the falling in of the bridge of the nose. Epistaxis is a very common affection in children. It is rarely of much consequence, and will almost always subside, but in the more violent haemorrhages of later life it may be necessary to plug the ]30sterior nares. In performing this operation it is desirable to remember the size of the posterior nares. A ready method of regulating the size of the plug to fit the opening is to make it of the same size as the terminal phalanx of the thumb of the patient to be operated on. Nasal polypus is a very common disease, and presents itself in three forms : the gelatinous, the fibrous, and the malignant. The first is by far the most common. It grows from the mucous membrane of the outer wall of the nasal fossa, where there is an abundant layer of highly vascular submucous tissue; rarely from the septum, where the mucous membrane is closely adherent to the cartilage and bone, without the inter- vention of much, if any, submucous tissue. Their most common seat is probablj^ the middle turbinated bone. The fibrous polypus generally grows from the base of the skull behind the posterior nares, or from the roof of the nasal fossae. The malignant polypi, both sarcomatous or carcinomatous, may arise in the nasal cavities" and the naso- pharynx ; or they may originate in the antrum, and protrude through its inner wall into the nasal fossa. Rhinoliths, or nose-stones, may sometimes be found in the nasal cavities, from the for- mation of phosphate of lime, upon either a foreign body or a piece of inspissated secretion. THE EYE The eyeball is contained in the cavity of the orbit. In this situation it is securely protected from injury, whilst its position is such as to ensure the most extensive range of sight. It is acted upon by numerous muscles, by which it is capable of being directed to any part; it is supplied by vessels and nerves, and is additionally protected in front by several appendages, such as the eyebrow, eye- lids, etc. The eyeball is embedded in the fat of the orbit, but is surrounded by a thin membranous sac, the capsule of Tenon, which isolates it, so as to allow of free movement.