THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES 6i The nails and hairs are pecuHar modifications of the epidermis, consisting essentially of the same cellular structure as that tissue. The nails are flattened, elastic structures of a horny texture, placed upon the dorsal surface of the terminal phalanges of the fingers and toes. Each nail is convex on its outer surface, concave within, and is implanted by a portion, called the root, into a groove in the skin ; the exposed portion is called the hody, and the anterior extremity the free edge. The nail has a very firm adhesion to the cutis, being accurately moulded upon its surface, as the epidermis is in other parts. The part of the cutis beneath the body and root of the nail is called the matrix, because it is the part from which the nail is produced. Corresponding to the body of the nail, the matrix is thick, and covered with large, highly vascular papilla, arranged in longitudinal rows, the colour of which is seen through the transparent tissue. Behind this, near the root of the nail, the papillfe are small, less vascular, and have no regular arrangement, and here the tissue of the nail is somewhat more opaque ; hence this portion is of a whiter colour, and is called the lunula on account of its shape. The cuticle, as it passes forwards on the dorsal surface of the finger or toe, is attached to the surface of the nail, a little in advance of its root; at the extremity of the finger it is connected with the under surface of the nail a little behind its free edge. The cuticle and horny substance of the nail (both epidermic structures) are thus directly continuous with each other. The nails, in structure, consist of cells having a laminated arrangement, and these are essentially similar to those composing the epidermis. The deepest layer of cells, which lie in contact with the papillae of the matrix, are of elongated form, arranged perpendicularly to the surface and provided with nuclei; those which succeed them are of a rounded or polygonal form, the more superficial ones becoming broad, thin, and flattened, and so closely compacted as to make the limits of each cell very indistinct. It is by the successive growth of new cells at the root and under surface of the body of the nail that it advances forwards and maintains a due thickness, whilst, at the same time, the growth of the nail in the proper direction is secured. As these cells in their turn become displaced by the growth of new cells, they assume a flattened form, lose their nuclei, and finally become closely compacted together into a firm, dense, horny texture. In chemical comjjosition the nails resemble epidermis. According to Mulder, they contain a somewhat larger proportion of carbon and sulphur. The hairs are peculiar modifications of the epidermis, and consist essentially of the same structure as that membrane. They are found on nearly every part of the surface of the body, excepting the palms of the hands, soles of the feet, and the penis. They vary much in length, thickness, and colour in different parts of the body and in difterent races of mankind. In some parts, as in the skin of the eye- lids, they are so short as not to project beyond the follicles containing them; in other parts, as upon the scalp, they are of considerable length : again, in other parts, as the eyelashes, the hairs- of the pubic region, and the male whiskers and beard, they are remarkable for their thickness. The hairs generally present a cylindrical or more or less flattened form and a reniform outline upon transverse section. A hair consists of a root, the part implanted in the skin; the shaft or stem, the portion projecting from its surface ; and the ijoint. The root of the hair presents at its extremity a bulbous enlargement, which is whiter in colour and softer in texture than the shaft, and is lodged in a follicular involution of the epidermis called the hair-follicle. When the hair is of consider- able length the follicle extends into the subcutaneous cellular tissue. The hair- follicle commences on the surface of the skin with a funnel-shaped opening, and passes inwards in an oblique direction to become dilated at its deep extremity, to correspond with the bulbous condition of the hair which it contains. It has opening into it, near its free extremity, the orifices of the ducts of one or more sebaceous glands (fig. 68). At the bottom of each hair-follicle is a small conical vascular eminence or papilla, similar in every respect to those found upon the