AETERIES 522 the second right costal cartilage, describing a slight curve in its course, and being situated, when distended, about a quarter of an inch behind the posterior surface of the sternum. A little above its commencement, it is somewhat enlarged, and presents three small dilatations, called the sinuses of the aorta (sinuses of Valsalva), opposite to which are attached the three semilunar valves, which serve the purpose of preventing any regurgitation of blood into the cavity of the ventricle. A section of the aorta opposite this part has a somewhat triangular figure ; but below the attachment of the valves it is circular. This portion of the aorta is contained in the cavity of the pericardium, and, together with the pulmonary artery, is invested in a tube of serous membrane, continued on to them from the surface of the heart. Relations.—The ascending aorta is covered at its commencement by the trunk of the pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendix, and, higher up, is separated from the sternum by the pericardium, the right pleura, and anterior margin of right lung, some loose areolar tissue, and the remains of the thymus gland ; behind, it rests upon the root of the right lung and left auricle. On the right side, it is in relation with the superior vena cava and right auricle ; on the left side, with the pulmonary artery. PiiAN OF THE Relations of the Ascending Aorta In front. Pulmonary artery. Right auricular appendix. Pericardium. Right pleura and lung. Remains of thymus gland. Bight side. / ^,eii of Aorta. \ Leftside. Superior cava. [ p^^^^"^^ | Pulmonary artery. Risfht auricle. Behind. Root of right lung. Left auricle. Branches of the Ascending Aorta The only branches of the ascending aorta are the two coronary arteries._^ They supply the heart, and are two in number, right and left, arising near the commence- ment of the aorta immediately above the free margin of the semilunar valves. The Right Coronary Artery, about the size of a crow's quill, arises from the aorta immediately above the free margin of the anterior semilunar ya],ve. It passes forwards between the pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendix, then runs obliquely to the right side, in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, and curving around the right border of the heart, runs along its posterior surface as far as the posterior interventricular groove, where it divides into two branches, one of which continues onwards in the groove betAveen the left auricle and ventricle, and anastomoses with the left coronary; the other descends along the posterior interventricular furrow, supplying branches to both ventricles and to the septum, and anastomosing at the apex of the heart with the descending branches of the left coronary. This vessel sends a large branch along the thin margin of the right ventricle to the apex, and numerous small branches to the right auricle and ventricle, and the commencement of the pulmonary artery. The Left Coronary, larger than the former, arises immediately above the free edge of the left semilunar valve, a little higher than ,tM,right; it passes forwards IbetAvoen the pulmonary artery and the left auricular appendix, and divides into