GENERAL ANATOMY THE fluids of the body, which are intended for its nutrition, are the lymph, the chyle, and the blood. There are other fluids also which partially subserve the same purpose, as the saliva, the gastric juice, the bile, the intestinal secretion; and others which are purely excrementitious, as the urine. But there is no need to describe the rest in this place, since they are the secretions of special organs, and are described, as far as is judged necessary for the purposes of this work, in subsequent pages. We shall here speak first of the blood, and next of the lymph and chyle. THE BLOOD The blood is a thickish, opaque fluid, of a bright red or scarlet colour when it flows from the arteries, of a dark red or purple colour when it flows from the veins. It is viscid, and has a somewhat clammy feeling ; it is salt to the taste, and has a peculiar faint odour. It has an alkaline reaction. Its specific gravity at 60° F. is about I'055, and its temperature is generally about 100° F., though varying slightly in different parts of the body. General Composition of the Blood.—When blood is drawn from the body and allowed to stand, it solidifies in the course of a very few minutes into a jelly-like mass, which has the same appearance and volume as the fluid blood, and, like it, looks quite uniform. Soon, however, drops of a transparent yellowish fluid begin to ooze out from the surface of this mass and to collect around it. Coincidently with this the clot begins to contract, so that, in the course of about twenty-four hours, the original mass of coagulated blood has become separated into two parts : a ' clot' or ' coagulum,' considerably smaller and firmer than the first-formed jelly-like mass, and a large quantity of yellowish fluid, the serum, in which the clot floats. The clot thus formed consists of a solid, colourless material, called/i&rm, and a large number of minute cells or corpuscles, called hlood-coryuscles, which are entangled and enclosed in the fibrin. The fibrin is formed during the act of solidi- fication. In the fluid blood in the living body there are two substances, named fibrinogen and paraglobulin or serum globulin, which may be termed fibrin-factors. These two materials, when withdrawn from the body, become acted upon by a third material, also contained in the blood, and named a fibrin-ferment, and unite together, forming a solid substance, fibrin. This latter in its process of solidifica- tion encloses and entangles the blood-corpuscles, and thus the clot is formed. It must be stated, however, that recent observations have shown that, in the act of clotting outside the body, solutions of fibrinogen, on addition of fibrin-ferment, clot firmly, provided that the solution has a trace of a calcium salt. Conse- quently paraglobulin would not appear to be necessary for this process. The act of clotting outside the body, which is evidence of the death of the blood, is a process dissimilar to that which occurs inside the body. In the former case a body, fibrinogen, is acted upon by the fibrin ferment, which appears only after the death of the white corpuscles. In the latter, intravascular clotting can be produced in two ways : (i) by directly stimulating living blood, as by the transfixion of an B