CLAVICLE 211 the sternum, and by its outer extremity with the acromion process of the scapula ; serving to sustain the upper extremity in the various positions which it assumes, whilst, at the same time, it allows of great latitude of motion in the arm.* It presents a double curvature, when looked at in front; the convexity being forwards at the sternal end, and the concavity at the scapular end. Its outer third is flattened from above downwards, and extends, in the natural position of the bone, from a point opposite the coracoid process to the acromion. Its inner two-thirds are of a cylindrical form, and extend from the sternum to a point opposite the coracoid process of the scapula. External or Flattened Portion.—The outer third is flattened from above down- wards, so as to present two surfaces, an upper and a lower; and two borders, an anterior and a posterior. The upper surface is flattened, rough, marked by impressions for the attachment of the Deltoid in front, and the Trapezius behind : between these two impressions, externally, a small portion of the bone is sub- cutaneous. The under surface is flattened. At its posterior border, a little external to the point where the prismatic joins with the flattened portion, is a rough eminence, the conoid tubercle ; this, in the natural position of the bone, surmounts the coracoid process of the scapula, and gives attachment to the conoid ligament. From this tubercle, an oblique line, occasionally a depression, passes forwards and outwards to near the outer end of the anterior border; it is called the oblique line, and affords attachment to the trapezoid ligament. The anterior border is concave, thin, and rough ; and gives attachment to the Deltoid ; it occasionally presents, at its inner end, at the commencement of the deltoid impression, a tubercle, the deltoid tubercle, which is sometimes to be felt in the living subject. The postej^ior border is convex, rough, broader than the anterior, and gives attachment to the Trapezius. Internal or Cylindrical Portion.—The cylindrical portion forms the inner tiuo- thirds of the bone. It is curved so as to be convex in front, concave behind, and is marked by three borders, separating three surfaces. The anterior border is continuous with the anterior margin of the flat portion. At its commencement it is smooth, and corresponds to the interval between the attachment of the Pectoralis major and Deltoid muscles; at the inner half of the clavicle it forms the lower boundary of an elliptical space for the attachment of the clavicular portion of the Pectoralis major, and approaches the posterior border of the bone. The superior border is continuous with the posterior margin of the flat portion, and separates the anterior from the posterior surface. At its commencement it is smooth and rounded, becomes rough towards the inner third for the attachment of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, and terminates at the upper angle of the sternal extremity. The posterior or subclavian border separates the posterior from the inferior surface, and extends from the conoid tubercle to the rhomboid impression. It forms the posterior boundary of the groove for the Subclavius muscle, and gives attachment to a layer of cervical fascia, covering the Omo-hyoid muscle. The anterior surface is included between the superior and anterior borders. It is directed forwards and a little upwards at the sternal end, outwards and still more upwards at the acromial extremity, where it becomes continuous with the upper surface of the flat portion. Externally, it is smooth, convex, nearly subcutaneous, being covered only by the Platysma; but, corresponding to the inner half of the bone, it is divided by a more or less prominent line into two parts : a lower portion, elliptical in form, rough, and slightly convex, for the attachment of the Pectoralis major ; and an upper part, which is rough, for the attachment of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid. Between the two muscular impressions is a small, subcutaneous interval. The posterior or cervical * The clavicle acts especially as a fulcrum to enable the muscles to give lateral motion to the arm. It is accordingly absent in those animals whose fore limbs are used owlj for progression, but is present for the most part in those animals whose anterior extremities are clawed and used for prehension, though in some of them—as, for instance, in a large number of the carnivora—it is merely a rudimentary bone suspended among the muscles, and not articulating either with the scapula or sternum. P 2 '