THE MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY 479 Fig. 320.—Fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus. under the coraco-acromial ligament by the muscles attached to the greater and lesser tuber- osities ; the lower fragment is drawn inwards by the Pectoralis major, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major; and the humerus is thrown obliquely outwards from the side by the Deltoid, and occasionally elevated so as to project beneath and in front of the coracoid process. The deformity is reduced by fixing the shoulder, and drawing the arm outwards and down- wards. To counteract the opposing muscles, and to keep the fragments in position, the arm should be drawn from the side, and pasteboard splints applied on its four sides ; a large conical-shaped pad should be placed in the axilla, with the base turned upwards and the elbow approximated to the side, and retained there by a broad roller passed round the chest; the forearm should then be flexed, and the hand supported in a sling, care being taken not to raise the elbow, otherwise the lower frag- ment may be displaced upwards. In fracture of the shaft of the humerus below the insertion of the Pectoralis major, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major, and above the insertion of the Deltoid, there is also considerable deformity, the upper fragment being drawn inwards by the first-mentioned muscles, and the lower fragment upwards and outwards by the Deltoid, producing shortening of the limb, and a considerable promi- nence at the seat of fracture, from the fractured ends of the bone riding over one another, especially if the fracture takes place in an oblique direction. The fragments may be brought into apposition by extension from the elbow, and retained in that position by adopting the same njeans as in the preceding injury. In fractures of the shaft of the humerus immediately below the insertion of the Deltoid, the amount of deformity depends greatly upon the direction of the fracture. If it occurs in a transverse direction, only slight displacement takes place, the upper fragment being drawn a little forwards; but in oblique fracture, the combined actions of the Biceps and Brachialis anticus muscles in front, and the Triceps behind, draw upwards the lower fragment, causing it to glide over the upper fragment, either backwards or forwards, according to the direction of the fracture. Simple extension reduces the defor- mity, and the application of splints on the four sides of the arm will retain the fragments in apposition. Care should be taken not to raise the elbow ; but the forearm and hand may be supported in a sling. Fracture of the humerus (fig. 321) immediately above the condyles deserves very attentive con- sideration, as the general appearances correspond somewhat with those produced by separation of the epiphysis of the humerus, and with those of disloca- tion of the radius and ulna backwards. If the direc- tion of the fracture is oblique from above, down- wards, and forwards, the lower fragment is drawn upwards and backwards by the Brachialis anticus and Biceps in front, and the Triceps behind. This injury may be diagnosed from dislocation by the in- creased mobility in fracture, the existence of crepi- tus, and the fact of the deformity being remedied by extension, on the discontinuance of which it is repro- duced. The age of the patient is of importance in distinguishing this form of injury from separation of the epiphysis. If fracture occurs in the opposite direction to that shown in the accompanying figure, the lower fragment is drawn upwards and forwards, causing a considerable prominence in front; and the upper fragment projects backwards beneath the tendon of the Triceps muscle. Fracture of the olecranon jprocess (fig. 322) is a frequent accident. The detached fragment is displaced upwards, by the action of the Triceps muscle, from half an inch to two inches ; the prominence of the elbow is consequently lost, and a deep hollow is felt at the back part of the joint, which is much increased on flexing the limb. The patient at the same time loses, more or less, the power of extending the forearm. The treatment consists in relaxing the Triceps by extending the limb, and retaining it in the extended position by means of a long straight splint applied to the front of the arm ; the fragments are thus brought into close apposition, and may be further approximated by drawing down the upper fragment. Union is generally ligamentous. Fig. 321.—Fracture of the humerus above the condyles.