THE SKELETON bone to the other bones of the face are then divided with a narrow saw. They are (i) the junction with the malar bone, passing into the spheno-maxillary fissiu-e: (2) the nasal process ; a small portion of its upper extremity, connected with the nasal bone in front, the lachrymal bone behind, and the frontal bone above, being left: (3) the connection with the bone on the opposite side and the palate in the roof of the mouth. The bone is now firmly grasped with lion-forceps, and by means of a rocking movement upwards and downwards the remaining attachments of the orbital plate wdth the ethmoid, and of the back of the bone with the palate, broken through. The soft palate is first separated from the hard with a scalpel and is not removed. Occasionally in removing the upper jaw, it will be found that the orbital jjlate can be spared, and this should always be done if possible. A horizontal saw-cut is to be made just below the infra-orbital foramen, and the bone cut through with a chisel and mallet. Removal of one half of the lower jaw is sometimes required. If possible, the section of the bone should be made to one side of the symphysis so as to save the genial tubercles and the origin of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, as other- wise the tongue tends to fall backwards and may produce suffocation. Having extracted the central or preferably the lateral incisor tooth, a vertical incision is made down to the bone, commencing at the free margin of the lip, and carried to the lower border of the bone; it is then carried along its lower border to the angle and up the posterior margin of the ramus to a level with the lobule of the ear. The flap thus formed is raised by separating all the structures attached to the outer surface of the bone. The jaw is now gawn through at the point where the tooth has been extracted, and the knife passed along the inner side of the jaw, separating the structures attached to this surface. The jaw is now grasped by the surgeon and strongly depressed, so as to bring down the coronoid process and enable the operator to sever the tendon of the temporal muscle. The jaw can be now further depressed, care being taken not to evert it or rotate it outwards, which would endanger the internal maxillary artery, and the external pterygoid torn through or divided. The capsular ligament is now opened in front and the lateral ligaments divided, and the jaw removed with a few final touches of the knife. The antrum occasionally requires tapping for suppuration. This may be done through the socket of a tooth, preferably the first molar, the fangs of which are most intimately connected with the antrum, or through the facial aspect of the bone above the alveolar process. This latter method does not perhaps afford such efficient drainage, but there is less chance of food finding its way into the cavity. The operation may be performed by incising the mucous membrane above the second molar tooth, and driving a trocar or any sharp pointed instrument into the cavity. Hyoid Bone The Hyoid bone is named from its resemblance to the Greek upsilon ; it is also called the lingual hone, because it supports the tongue, and gives attachment to its numerous muscles. It is a bony arch, shaped like a horse-shoe, and consisting of five segments, a body, two greater cornua, and two lesser cornua. It is sus- pended from the tip of the sty- loid processes of the temporal bones by ligamentous bands, the stijlo-liyoid ligaments. The Body {basi-hyal) forms the central part of the bone, and is of a quadrilateral form ; its ante) lor surface (fig. 178), convex, directed forw^ards and upwards, is divided into tw^o parts by a vertical ridge which descends along the median line, and is crossed at right angles by a horizontal ridge, so that this surface is divided into four spaces or depressions. At the point of meeting of these tAvo lines is a prominent elevation, the tubercle. The portion above the horizontal ridge is directed upwards, and is sometimes described as the superior border. The anterior surface gives attachment to the Genio-hyoid in the greater part of its extent; above, to the Genio-hyo-giossus ; below% to the Mylo-hyoid, Stylo-hyoid, and Fig. 178.—Hyoid bone. Anterior surface (enlarged). CENlO-HYOlu/ MYLO-HYOID