EPITHELIUM kinds of epithelium, whether arranged in a single layer or in more than one layer, are usually spoken of as squamous or pavement, columnar, spheroidal or glandular, and ciliated. Hhe pavement epithelium (fig. 7) is composed of flat nucleated scales of various shapes, usually polygonal, and varying in size. These cells fit together by their edges, like the tiles of a mosaic pavement. The nucleus is generally flattened, but may be spheroidal. The flattening depends upon the thinness of the cell. The protoplasm of the cell presents a fine reticulum or honeycombed network, which gives to the cell the appearance of granulation. This kind of epithelium is found on the surface of the skin (epidermis) and on mucous surfaces which are subjected to friction. The nails, the hairs, and (in animals) the horns are a variety of this kind of epithelium. A variety of squamous epithelium which is found in the deeper layers of stratified pavement-epithelium has been termed ^jWcA;/e cells. These cells possess short fine fibrils which pass from their margins to those of neighbouring cells, serving to connect them together. They were first probably noticed by Max Schultze and Virchow, and it was believed that by them the cells were dove- tailed together. Subsequently this was shown not to be so, by Dr. Martyn, who pointed out that the prickles were attached to each other by their apices ; and recently Dr. Delepine has stated that he believes the prickles of prickle cells are parts of fibrils forming internuclear bundles between the nuclei of the cells of an epithelium in a state of active growth (see page 9, and fig. 6). The columnar or cylindrical epithelium (fig. 8) is formed of cylindrical or rod- shaped cells, each containing a nucleus, and set together so as to form a complete Fig. 8.—Epithelium of the intestinal Fig. 9.—Simple columnar epithelium, from the villi of the rabbit. Magnified 300 mucous membrane of the intestine, with goblet- times, cells pouring out their contents. (Klein and a. Basement-membrane. membrane. The cells have a prismatic figure, more or less flattened from mutual pressure, and are set upright on the surface on which they are supported. Their protoplasm is always more or less longitudinally striated, and they contain a nucleus which is oval in shape and contains an intranuclear network. This form of epithelium covers the mucous membrane of nearly the whole gastro- intestinal tract and the glands of that part, the greater part of the urethra, the vas deferens, the prostate, Cowper's glands, Bartholini's glands, and a portion of the uterine mucous membrane. Goblet or chalice cells are a modification of the columnar cell. They appear to be formed by an alteration in shape of the columnar epithelium (ciliated or otherwise) consequent on the secretion into the interior of the cell of mucin, the chief organic constituent of mucus, which distends the upper part of the cell, while the nucleus is pressed down towards its deep part, until the cell bursts and the mucus is discharged on to the surface of the mucous membrane, as shown in fig. 9. The spheroidal or glanchilar epithelium (fig. 10) is composed of circular or polyhedral cells. Like other forms of epithelial cells, the protoplasm is a fine reticulum, which gives to the cell the appearance of granulation. They are found in the terminal recesses of secreting glands, and the protoplasm of the cells usually contains the materials which the cells secrete. Ciliated epithelium (fig. 11) may be of any of the preceding forms, but usually inclines to the columnar shape. It is distinguished by the presence of minute