THE SKELETON 2IO with this the ribs on the opposite side, on the concavity of the cnrve. are sunk an(| depressed behind, and bulging and convex in front. In addition to this the ribs become occasionally welded together by bony material. The ribs are frequently the seat of necrosis leading to abscesses and sinuses, which may burrow to a considerable extent over the wall of the chest. The only special anatomical point in connection with these is that care must be taken in dealing with them, that the intercostal space is not punctured and the pleural cavity opened or the intercostal vessels wounded. In cases of empyema the chest re(]uires opening to evacuate the pus. There is considerable difference of opinion as to the best position to do this. Probably the best place in most cases will be found to be between the fifth and sixth ribs, in or a little in front of the mid-axillary line. This is the last part of the cavity- to be closed by the expansion of the lung; it is not thickly covered by soft parts ; the space between the two ribs is sufficiently great to allow of the introduction of a fair sized drainage tube, and the opening is in a dependent position, when the x^atient is confined to bed, as he usually inclines towards the affected side, so as to allow the sound lung the freest possible play, and so permits of efficient drainage. OF THE EXTREMITIES The extremities, or limbs, are those long, jointed appendages of the body which are connected to the trunk by one end, and free in the rest of their extent. They Sivefour in number: an ujjper or thoracic i^air, connected with the thorax through the intervention of the shoulder, and subservient mainly to prehension ; and a lower pair, connected wdth the pelvis, intended for support and locomotion. Both pairs of limbs are constructed after one common type, so that they present numerous analogies; while, at the same time, certain differences are observed in each, dependent on the peculiar offices they have to perform. The bones by which the upper and lower limbs are attached to the trunk are named respectively the shoulder o^ndi pelvic girdles, ajud they are constructed on the same general type, though presenting certain modifications relating to the different uses to which the upper and lower limbs are respectively applied. The shoulder girdle is formed by the scapula and clavicle, and is imperfect in front and behind. In front, however, the girdle is completed by the upper end of the sternum, with which the inner extremities of the clavicle articulate. Behind, the girdle is widely imperfect, and the scapula is connected to the trunk by muscles only. The pelvic girdle is formed by the innominate bones, and is completed in front, through the symphysis pubis, at which the two innominate bones articulate with each other. It is imperfect behind, but the intervening gap is filled in by the upper part of the sacrum. The pelvic girdle, therefore, presents, with the sacrum, a complete ring, comparatively fixed, and presenting an arched form Avhich confers upon it a solidity manifestly intended for the support of the trunk, and in marked contrast to the lightness and mobility of the shoulder girdle. With regard to the morphology of these girdles, the blade of the scapula is generally believed to correspond to the ilium : but with regard to the clavicles there is some difference of opinion ; formerly it w^as believed that they corresponded to the ossa pubis meeting at the symphysis, but it is now generally taught that the clavicle has no homologue in the pelvic girdle, and that the os pubis and ischium are represented by the small coracoid process in man and most mammals. Of the Uppeii Extremity * The bones of the upper extremity consist of those of the shoulder girdle, of the arm, the forearm, and the hand. The shoulder girdle consists of two bones, the clavicle and the scapula. The Clavicle The Clavicle (clavis, a key), or collar-bone, forms the anterior portion of the shoulder girdle. It is a long bone, curved somewhat like the italic letter /, and placed nearly horizontally at the upper and anterior part of the thorax, immediately above the first rib. It articulates by its inner extremity with the upper border of