NEEYOUS SYSTEM 724 are more numerous than those which terminate in the gangUa, so that more fihres pass out of the gangha than pass into them. The fibres of the tegmentum are continuous with those longitudinal fibres of the pons which are derived from the formatio reticularis of the medulla, which is formed by fibres (i) from the anterior column of the cord ; (2) from the olivary body; (3) from the lateral column of the cord; and (4) from the funiculus cuneatus and funiculus gracilis. They are reinforced by fibres from the corpora quadrigemina and corpora geniculata, and from the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, and enter the optic thalamus. Some of these fibres pass through the optic thalamus, and, being augmented by other fibres arising within this body, pass out of it and spread out to form part of the corona radiata, especially joining the ganglion-cells of the cortex of the temporo-sphenoidal and occipital lobes ; other fibres terminate in the optic thalamus. 2. The transverse commissural fibres connect together the two hemispheres. They include: (a) the transverse fibres of the corpus callosum; [h) the anterior commissure ; (c) the posterior commissure. The corjms callosum, which has already been described, connects together the two hemispheres of the brain, forming their great transverse commissure, pene- trating into the substance of the convolutions and intersecting the fibres of the corona radiata. The anterior commissure is a round bundle of white fibres, which is placed in front of the anterior crura of the fornix, and appears to connect the corpora striata. It passes outwards through the corpus striatum on each side, and then curves backwards into the substance of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The posterior commissure, smaller than the anterior, is a flattened white band of fibres, which appears to connect together the optic thalami posteriorly. It consists of decussating fibres which come from the tegmentum of the crus cerebri on one side, and pass through the optic thalamus, across the back part of the third ventricle, to the white substance of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the other. Some of the fibres may also serve as commissural fibres between the optic thalami. 3. Commissural fibres connecting' different structures in the same hemisphere.— These fibres are of two kinds : (i) those which connect adjacent convolutions, and which are termed arcuate or association fihres ; (2) those which connect more distant parts in the same hemisphere—the longitudinal or collateral fihres. The arcuate or association fihres are situated immediately beneath the grey substance of the cortex of the hemispheres, and connect together adjacent con- volutions. The longitudinal or collateral fihres include the following: {a) the uncinate fasciculus; (h) the fillet of the gyrus fornicatus ; (c) the longitudinal fibres of the corpus callosum; {d) the taenia semicircularis ; (e) the fornix; (/) the inferior longitudinal fasciculus. ia) The uncinate fascicuhis connects the convolutions of the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes. It passes across the bottom of the Sylvian fissure and traverses the claustrum. (h) The fillet of the gyrus fornicatus is a band of white matter, which encircles the hemisphere in an antero-posterior direction, lying in the substance of the con- volution of the corpus callosum. Commencing in front at the anterior perforated space, it passes forwards and upwards parallel with the rostrum, winds round the genu, runs in the convolution from before backwards, immediately above the corpus callosum, turns round its posterior extremity, and is continued downwards and forwards in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe to again reach the perforated space. In its course it is connected with the secondary convolutions of the gyrus fornicatus by short arcuate fibres. (c) The longitudinal fihres of the corjnis callosum or nerves of Lancisi connect the anterior and posterior extremities of the gyrus fornicatus or convolution of the corpus callosum. (a) The tcEnia semicircularis is a narrow whitish semitransparent band of