378 MUSCLES AND FASCIA The Orbicularis oris (fig. 269) is not a sphincter muscle like the Orbicularis palpebrarum, but consists of numerous strata of muscular fibres, having different directions, which surround the orifice of the mouth. These fibres are partially derived from the other facial muscles which are inserted into the lips, and are partly fibres proper to the lips themselves. Of the former, a considerable number are derived from the Buccinator and form the deeper stratum of the Orbicularis. Some of them, namely those near the middle of the muscle, decussate at the angle of the mouth, those arising from the upper jaw passing to the lower lip, and those from the lower jaw to the upper lip. Other fibres of the muscle, situated at its upper and lower part, pass across the lips from side to side without interruption. Superficial to this stratum is a second, formed by the Levator and Depressor anguli oris, which cross each other at the angle of the mouth ; those from the Depressor passing to the upper lip, and those from the Levator to the lower lip, along which they run to be inserted into the skin near the median line. In addition to these there are fibres from the other muscles inserted into the lips, the Levator labii superioris, the Levator labii superioris alseque nasi, the Zygomatici, and the Depressor labii inferioris ; these intermingle with the transverse fibres above described, and have principally an oblique direction. The proper fibres of the lips are oblique, and pass from the under surface of the skin to the mucous membrane, through the thickness of the lip. And in addition to these are fibres by which the muscle is connected directly with the maxillary bones and the septum of the nose. These consist, in the upper lip, of four bands, two of which {Accessorii orbicularis superioris) arise from the alveolar border of the superior maxilla, opposite the lateral incisor tooth, and arching outwards on each side are continuous at the angles of the mouth with the other muscles inserted into this part. The two remaining muscular slips, called the Naso-labialis, connect the upper lip to the back of the septum of the nose : as they descend from the septum, an interval is left between them. It is this interval which forms the depression seen on the surface of the skin beneath the septum of the nose. The additional fibres for the lower segment (Accessorii orbicularis inferioris) arise from the inferior maxilla, externally to the Levator labii inferioris, and arch outwards to the angles of the mouth, to join the Buccinator and the other muscles attached to this part. Relations.—By its superficial surface^ with the integument, to which it is closely connected. By its deep surface^ with the buccal mucous membrane, the labial glands, and coronary vessels. By its outer circimiferejice, it is blended with the numerous muscles which converge to the mouth from various parts of the face. Its inner circumference is free, and covered by the mucous membrane. The Buccinator (fig. 282) is a broad, thin muscle, quadrilateral in form, which occupies the interval between the jaws at the side of the face. It arises from the outer surface of the alveolar processes of the upper and lower jaws, corresponding to the three molar teeth ; and behind, from the anterior border of the pterygo-maxillary ligament. The fibres converge towards the angle of the mouth, where the central fibres intersect each other, those from below being continuous with the upper segment of the Orbicularis oris ; and those from above with the inferior segment; the highest and lowest fibres continue forward uninter- ruptedly into the corresponding segment of the lip, without decussation. Relations.—By its superficial surface, behind, with a large mass of fat, which separates it from the ramus of the lower jaw, the Masseter, and a small portion of the Temporal muscle ; anteriorly, with the Zygomatici, Risorius, Levator anguli oris. Depressor anguli oris, and Stenson's duct, which pierces it opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw ; the facial artery and vein cross it from below upwards ; it is also crossed by the branches of the facial and buccal nerves. By its internal surface, with the buccal glands and mucous membrane of the mouth. The pterygo-maxillary ligament separates the Buccinator muscle from the Superior constrictor of the pharynx. It is a tendinous band, attached by one extremity to the apex of the internal pterygoid plate, and by the other to the posterior extremity of the internal oblique line of the lower jaw. Its inner surface