559 SUBCLAVIAN Second and Third Parts of the Subclavian Aeteey (fig. 347) The Second Portion of the Subclavian Artery lies behind the Scalenus anticus muscle; it is very short, and forms the highest part of the arch described by that vessel. Relations.—It is covered, in front, by the skin, superficial fascia, Platysma, deep cervical fascia, Sterno-mastoid, and by the phrenic nerve, which is separated from the artery by the Scalenus anticus muscle. Behind, it is in relation with the pleura and the Middle scalenus. Above, with the brachial plexus of nerves. Below, with the pleura. The subclavian vein lies below and in front of the artery, separated from it by the Scalenus anticus. Plan of Relations of Second Portion of Subclavian Artery III front. Skin and superficial fascia. Platysma and deep cervical fascia. Sterno-mastoid. Phrenic nerve. Scalenus anticus. Subclavian vein. Ahove. Brachial plexus. Beloiv. Pleura. Belli }}d. Pleura and Middle Scalenus. The Third Portion of the Subclavian Artery passes downwards and outwards from the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus to the lower border of the first rib, where it becomes the axillary artery. This portion of the vessel is the most super- ficial, and is contained in a triangular space, the base of which is formed in front by the Sterno-mastoid, and the two sides by the Omo-hyoid above and the clavicle below. Plan of Eelations of Third Portion of Subclavian Artery In front. Skin and superficial fascia. Platysma and deep cervical fascia. Descending branches of cervical plexus. Nerve to Subclavius muscle. Subclavius muscle, suprascapular artery, and vein. The external jugular and transverse cervical veins. The clavicle. Ahove. Brachial plexus. Omo-hyoid. Below. First rib. Belmid. Scalenus medius. Relations.—It is covered, in front, by the skin, the superficial fascia, the Platysma, deep cervical fascia; by the clavicle, the Subclavius muscle, and the suprascapular artery and vein, and the transverse cervical vein; the clavicular descending branches of the cervical plexus and the nerve to the Subclavius muscle