DESCENT OF THE TESTES 1029 fold; the portion of the bladder included in this space rests on the rectum, and corresponds with the trigonum vesicae in its interior. Each vesicula consists of a single tube, coiled upon itself, and giving off several irregular csecal diverticula: the separate coils, as well as the diverticula, being connected together by fibrous tissue. When uncoiled, this tube is about the diameter of a quill, and varies in length from four to six inches; it terminates posteriorly in a cul-de-sac ; its anterior extremity becomes constricted into a narrow straight duct, which joins on its inner side with the corresponding vas deferens, and forms the ejaculatory duct. The ejaculatory ducts, two in number, one on each side, are formed by the junction of the ducts of the vesicula seminales with the vasa deferentia. Each duct is about three.-quarters of an inch in length ; it commences at the base of the prostate, and runs forwards and upwards in a canal in its substance, and along the side of the sinus pocularis, to terminate by a separate slit-like orifice close to or just within the margins of the sinus. The ducts diminish in size, and converge towards their termination. Structure.—The vesiculge seminales are composed of three coats : an external or fihro-cellular ; a middle or muscular coat, which is thinner than in the vas deferens : the muscular fibres are arranged in three layers, consisting of an inner and outer longitudinal stratum and an intermediate layer of circular fibres ; and an internal or mucous coat, which is pale, of a whitish-brown colour, and presents a delicate reticular structure, like that seen in the gall-bladder, but the meshes are finer. The epithelium is columnar. The coats of the ejaculatory ducts are extremely thin. They are : an outer fibrous layer, which is almost entirely lost after their entrance into the prostate ; a layer of muscular fibres, consisting of an outer thin circular and an inner longi- tudinal layer, and the mucous membrane forming the only constituents of the tubes. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the vesiculae seminales are derived from the middle and inferior vesical and middle haemorrhoidal. The veins and lymphatics accompany the arteries. The nerves are derived from the pelvic plexus. Surgical Anatomy.—The vesiculae seminales are often the seat of an extension of the disease in cases of tuberculous disease of the testicle, and should always be examined from the rectum before coming to a decision with regard to castration in this affection. Descent of the Testes I The testes, at an early period of foetal life, are placed at the back part of the abdominal cavity, behind the peritoneum ; in front, and a little below the kidneys. The anterior surface and sides are invested by peritoneum. At about the third month of intra-uterine life a peculiar structure, the gubernaculum testis, makes its appearance. This structure is at first a slender band which extends from the situation of the internal ring, to the epididymis and body of the testicle, and is then continued upwards in front of the kidney towards the Diaphragm. As development advances, the peritoneum covering the testicle encloses it and forms a mesentery, the mesorchium, which also encloses the gubernaculum and forms two folds, one above the testicle, and the other below it. The one above the testicle is the plica vascularis, and contains ultimately the spermatic vessels ; the one below, the plica gubernatrix, contains the lower part of the gubernaculum, which has now grown into a thick cord ; it terminates below at the internal ring in a sort of tube, the processus vaginalis, which protrudes itself down the inguinal canal. The lower part of the gubernaculum by the fifth month has become a thick cord, whilst the upper part has disappeared. The lower part can now be seen to consist of a central core of unstriped muscle-fibre, and outside this of a firm layer of striped elements connected, behind the peritoneum, with the abdominal wall. Later on, about the sixth month, the lower end of the gubernaculum can be traced into the inguinal canal, extending to the pubes, and, at a later period, to the bottom of the scrotum.