195 SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF SKULL capacity, so the frontal bone becomes more upright, and the frontal eminences stand ont in bolder relief. Thus the}' may be considered as affording, to a certain extent, an indication of the development of the hemispheres of the brain beneath, and of the mental powers of the individual. They are not so much exposed to injury as the parietal eminences. In falls forward the upper extremities are involuntarily thrown out, and break the force of the fall, and thus shield the frontal bone from injury. 11. Below the frontal eminences on the forehead are the suijerciliary ridges, which denote the position of the frontal sinuses and vary according to the size of the sinuses in different individuals, being, as a rule, small in the female, absent in children, and sometimes unusually prominent in the male, when the frontal sinuses are largely developed. They commence on either side of the glabella, and at hrst present a rounded form, which gradually fades away at their outer ends. 12. The nasal hones form the prominence of the nose. They vary much in size and shape, and to them is due the varieties in the contour of this organ and much of the character of the face. Thus, in the Mongolian or Ethiopian they are flat, broad and thick at their base, giving to these tribes the flattened nose by which they are characterised, and differing very decidedly from the Caucasian, in whom the nose, owing to the shape of the nasal bones, is narrow, elevated at the bridge, and elongated downwards. Below, the nasal bones are thin and connected with the cartilages of the nose, and the angle or arch formed by their union serves to throw out the bridge of the nose, and is much more marked in some individuals than others. 13. The lower margin of the orhit, formed by the superior maxillary bone and the malar bone, is plainly to be felt throughout its entire length. It is continuous internally with the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, which forms the inner boundary of the orbit. At the point of junction of the lower margin of the orbit with the nasal process is to be felt a little tubercle of bone, which can be plainly perceived by running the finger along the bone in this situation. This tubercle serves as a guide to the position of the lachrymal sac, which is situated above and behind it. 14. The outline of the loiver jaiu is to be felt throughout its entire length. Just in front of the tragus of the external ear, and below the zygomatic arch, the condyle can be made out. ^Yllen the mouth is opened, this prominence of bone can be perceived advancing out of the glenoid fossa on to the eminentia articularis, and receding again when the mouth is closed. From the condyle the posterior border of the ramus can be felt extending down to the angle. A line drawn from the condyle to the angle would indicate the exact position of this border. From the angle to the symphysis of the chin, the lower, rounded border of the body of the bone is plainly to be felt. At the point of junction of the two halves of the bone is a well-marked, triangular eminence, the 7nental xwocess, Avhich forms the prominence of the chin. Surgical Anatomy.—An arrest in the ossifying process may give rise to deficiencies or gaps ; or to fissures, which are of importance in a medico-legal point of views as they are liable to be mistaken for fractures. The fissures generally extend from the margin towards the centre of the bone, but gaps may be found in the middle, as well as at the edges. In course of time they may become covered with a thin lamina of bone. Occasionally a protrusion of the brain or its membranes may take place through one of these gaps in an imperfectly developed skull. "When the protrusion consists of membranes only, and is filled with cerebro-spinal fluid, it is called a meningocele ; when the protrusion consists of brain as well as membranes, it is termed an enceplialocele ; and when the protruded brain is a prolongation from one of the ventricles, and is distended by a collec- tion of fluid from an accumulation in the ventricle, it is termed an hydrencej^halocele. This latter condition it frequently found at the root of the nose, where a protrusion of the anterior horn of the lateral ventricle takes place through a deficiency of the fronto-nasal suture. These malformations are usually found in the middle line, and most frequently at the back of the head, the protrusion taking place through the fissures which separate the four centres of ossification from which the tabular portion is originally developed (see page 138). They most frequently occur through the upper part of the vertical fissure, which is the last to ossify, but not uncommonly through the lower part, when the foramen magmmi may be incomplete. More rarely these protrusions have been met with in other situations than those two above mentioned, both through normal fissures, as the sagittal, lambdoid, and other sutures, and also through abnormal gaps and deficiencies at the sides, and even at the base of the skull. Fractures of the skull may be divided into those of the vault and those of the base. Fractures of the vault are usually produced by direct violence. This portion of the skull varies in thickness and strength in different individuals, but, as a rule, is sufficiently strong to resist a \ery considerable amomit of violence without being fractured. This is due to several causes:—the rounded shape of the head and its construction of a number of secondary elastic arches, each made up of a single bone; the fact that it consists of a number of bones, united, at all events in early life, by a sutural ligament, which acts as a sort of buffer and interrupts the continuity of any violence applied to the skull; the presence of arches or ridges, both on the inside and outside of the skull, which materially strengthen it ; and the mobility of the head upon the spine which further enables it to withstand A iolence. The elasticity of the bones of the head is especially marked in the skull of the child, and this fact, together with the wide separation of the individual bones fi^om each other, and the interposition between tliem of other softer structures, renders O 2