THE SKELETON process ; whilst at the bottom of the fossae, especially the inferior, it is thin, semi- transparent, and destitute of diploe. Development (fig, 132).—At birth the bone consists of four distinct parts : a ^a626/ar or expanded portion, which lies behind the foramen magnum ; two condylar parts which form the sides of the foramen ; and a basilar part which lies in front of the foramen. The number of nuclei for the tabular part vary. As a rule there are four, but there may be only one (Blandin), or as many as eight (Meckel). They appear about the eighth week of foetal life, and soon unite to form a single piece; which is, however, fissured in the direction indicated in the plate. The basilar and two condyloid portions are each developed from a single nucleus, which appears a little later. The upper portion of the tabular surface, that is to say, the portion above the transverse fissures, is developed from membrane ; the rest of the bone is developed from cartilage. At about the fourth year, the tabular and the two condyloid pieces join ; and about the sixth year, the bone consists of a single piece. At a later period, between the eighteenth and twenty-fifth years, the occipital and sphenoid become united, forming a single bone. Articulations.—With six bones : two parietal, two temporal, sphenoid, and atlas. Attachment of Muscles.—To twelve pairs ; to the superior curved line are attached the Occipito-frontalis, Trapezius, and Sterno-cleido-mastoid. To the space between the curved lines, the Complexus,* Splenius capitis, and Obliquus capitis superior ; to the inferior curved line, and the space between it and the foramen magnum, the Rectus capitis posticus, major and minor; to the transverse process, the Rectus capitis lateralis ; and to the basilar process, the Rectus capitis anticus, major and minor, and Superior constrictor of the pharynx. The Parietal Bones The Parietal Bones (paries, a wall) form, by their union, the sides and roof of the skull. Each bone is of an irregular quadrilateral form, and presents for examination two surfaces, four borders, and four angles. Surfaces.—The external surface (fig. 133) is convex, smooth, and marked about its centre by an eminence, called the parietal eminence, which indicates the point where ossification commenced. Crossing the middle of the bone in an arched direction are two well-marked curved lines or ridges, of which the lower is the more distinct and is termed the temporal ridge ; it marks the upper attachment of the temporal muscle, and follows a semicircular course across the bone. The upper ridge is less marked, and pursues a similar course across the bone, but about two- fifths of an inch above the temporal ridge ; it marks the attachment of the temporal fascia. Above these ridges, the surface of the bone is rough and porous, and covered by the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis ; between them the bone is smoother and more polished than the rest ; beloAV them the bone forms part of the temporal fossa, and affords attachment to the temporal muscle. At the back part of the superior border, close to the sagittal suture, is a small foramen, the * To these the Biventer cervicis should be added, if it is regarded as a separate muscle.