ETHMOID BONE 155 consists of two distinct parts : a posterior or j^ost-sphenoid part, which com- prises the pituitary fossa, the greater wings, and the pterygoid processes ; and an anterior or 'pre-s]jhcnoid part, to which the anterior part of the body and lesser wings belong. It is developed by fourteen centres : eight for the posterior sphenoid division, and six for the anterior sphenoid. The eight centres for the posterior sphenoid are—one for each greater wing and external pterygoid plate, one for each internal pterygoid plate, two for the posterior part of the body, and one Fig. 146.—Plan of the development of sphenoid, on each side for the lingula. The six for the anterior sphenoid are one for each lesser wing, tw^o for the anterior part of the body, and one for each sphenoidal turbinated bone. Post-sphenoid Division. — The first nuclei to appear are those for the greater wings. They make their appearance between the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale about the eighth Aveek, and from them the external pterygoid plates are also formed. Soon after, the nuclei for the posterior part of the body appear, one on either side of the sella turcica, and become blended together about the middle of fcetal life. About the fourth month the remaining four centres appear, those for the internal pterygoid plates being ossified in membrane and becoming joined to the external pterygoid plate about the sixth month. The centres for the lingulae speedily become joined to the rest of the bone. Pre-sphenoid Division.—The first nuclei to appear are those for the lesser wings. They make their appearance about the ninth week, at the outer borders of the optic foramina. A second pair of nuclei appear on the inner side of the foramina shortly after, and, becoming united, form the front part of the body of the bone. The remaining two centres for the sphenoidal turbinated bones do not make their appearance until the end of the third year. The pre-sphenoid is united to the body of the post-sphenoid about the eighth month, so that at birth the bone consists of three pieces—viz. the body in the centre, and on each side the great wings wdth the pterygoid processes. The lesser wings become joined to the body at about the time of birth. At the first year after birth the greater wings and body are united. From the tenth to the twelfth year the spongy bones are partially united to the sphenoid, their junction being complete by the twentieth year. Lastly, the sphenoid joins the occipital from the eighteenth to the twenty-fifth year. Articulations.—The sphenoid articulates with all the bones of the cranium, and five of the face—the two malar, two palate, and vomer: the exact extent of articulation with each bone is shown in the accompanying figures.* Attachment of Muscles.—^To eleven pairs : the Temporal, External pterygoid. Internal pterygoid, Superior constrictor. Tensor palati. Levator palpebrse, Obliquus oculi superior, Superior rectus. Internal rectus. Inferior rectus, External rectus. The Ethmoid Bone The Ethmoid {rjdjjios, a sieve) is an exceedingly light, spongy bone, of a cubical form, situated at the anterior part of the base of the cranium, between the two orbits, at the root of the nose, and contributing to form each of these cavities. It consists of three parts : a horizontal plate, which forms part of the base of the * It also sometimes articulates with the tuberosity of the superior maxilla (seep. 161). By fourteen centres. one fo-n ecccA iritro •foT' ctTrfe'TZor' Zesser^ xcriit^ jjur"/: oiP hodi^ one /or" ^^or' ecc^^Tv Zin^iz^lc/ \^ eccch- yrvcii zzrin^ ccrifZ esoiernctZ' ja^jy-- cne \^oiclj>Zcete /hr cercA^ S^^enoidctZ tziriina^ecl- Zona