436 MUSCLES AND FASCI.E Actions.—The Quadratus Imnbomm draws down the last rib, and acts as a muscle of forced exphation ; but, at the same time, by fixing the last rib it opposes the tendency of the Diaphragm to draw it upwards, and thus it becomes an assistant to inspiration. If the thorax and spine are fixed, it may act upon the pelvis, raising it towards its own side when only one muscle is put in action ; and when both muscles act together, either from below or above, they flex the trunk. Muscles of the Pelvic Outlet or of the Ischio-eectal Region AND Perineum Corrugator cutis ani. Internal sphincter ani. External sphincter ani. Levator ani. Coccygeus. I Transversus perinaai. / Transversus perinsei. T -n/r 1 ' Accelerator urinae. , „ , Sphincter vaginae. In Male , . In Female -p^ , -a- Erector penis. Erector ciitoridis. V Compressor urethrae. ' Compressor urethraB. The Corrugator cutis ani.—Around the anus is a thin stratum of involuntary muscular fibre, which surrounds it in a radiating manner. Internally, the fibres fade off into the submucous tissue, whilst externally they blend with the true skin. By its contraction it raises the skin into ridges radiating from the margin of the anus. The External sphincter ani is a thin, flat plane of muscular fibres, elliptical in shape and intimately adherent to the integument surrounding the margin of the anus. It measures about three or four inches in length, from its anterior to its posterior extremity, being about an inch in breadth, opposite the anus. It arises from the tip of the coccyx, by a narrow tendinous band, and from the superficial fascia in front of that bone ; and is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perineum, joining with the Transversus perinsei, the Levator ani, and the Accelerator urinae. Like other sphincter muscles, it consists of two planes of muscular fibre, which surround the margin of the anus, and join in a commissure in front and behind. Nerve-supply.—A branch from the anterior division of the fourth sacral and the inferior haemorrhoidal branch of the internal pudic. Actions.—The action of this muscle is peculiar : i. It is, like other muscles, always in a state of tonic contraction, and having no antagonistic muscle it keeps the anal orifice closed. 2. It can be put into a condition of greater contraction under the influence of the will, so as to more firmly occlude the anal aperture. 3. Taking its fixed point at the coccyx, it helps to fix the central point of the perinaeum, so that the Accelerator may act from this fixed point. The Internal sphincter is a muscular ring which surrounds the lower extremity of the rectum for about an inch ; its inferior border being contiguous to, but quite separate from, the External sphincter. This muscle is about two lines in thickness, and is formed by an aggregation of the involuntary circular fibres of the intestine. It is paler in colour and less coarse in texture than the External sphincter. Actions.—Its action is entirely involuntary. It helps the External sphincter to occlude the anal aperture. The Levator ani (fig. 296) is a broad, thin muscle, situated on each side of the pelvis. It is attached to the inner surface of the sides of the true pelvis, and descending unites with its fellow of the opposite side to form the floor of the pelvic cavity. It supports the viscera in this cavity and surrounds the various structures which pass through it. It arises, in front, from the posterior surface of the body and ramus of the os pubis on the outer side of the symphysis ; posteriorly, from the inner surface of the spine of the ischium ; and between these two points, from the angle of division between the obturator and recto-vesical layers of the pelvic fascia at their under part. The fibres pass downwards to the middle fine of the floor of the pelvis, and are inserted, the most posterior into the sides of the apex of the coccyx ; those placed more anteriorly unite with the muscle of the opposite side, in a median fibrous raphe, which extends between the coccyx and the margin