801 SACEAL to form loops on the back of the sacrum, filaments from which supply the Extensor coccygis and the integument over the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve divides into its anterior and posterior division in the spinal canal. The ijosterior division is the smaller. It does not divide, but receives, as already mentioned, a communicating branch from the last sacral, and is lost in the fibrous structure on the back of the coccyx. The anterior divisions of the sacral nerves diminish in size from above down- wards. The four upper ones emerge from the anterior sacral foramina: the anterior division of the fifth, after emerging from the spinal canal through its terminal opening, curves forwards between the sacrum and the coccyx. All the anterior sacral nerves communicate with the sacral ganglia of the sympathetic, at their exit from the sacral foramina. ^h.Q first nerve, of large size, unites with the lumbo-sacral cord, formed by the fifth lumbar, and a branch from the fourth. The Fig. 468.—The posterior sacral nerves. second, equal in size to the preceding, and the third, about one-fourth the size of the second, unite with this trunk, and form, with a small fasciculus from the fourth, the sacral plexus, a visceral branch being given off from the third nerve to the bladder. The fourth anterior sacral nerve sends a branch to join the sacral plexus. The remaining portion of the nerve divides into visceral and muscular branches; and a communicating filament descends to join the fifth sacral nerve. The visceral branches are distributed to the viscera of the pelvis, communicating with the sympathetic nerve. These branches ascend upon the rectum and bladder, and in the female upon the vagina, communicating with branches of the sympa- thetic from the pelvic plexus. The muscular branches are distributed to the Levator ani, Coccygeus, and Sphincter ani. The branch to the Sphincter ani pierces the Levator ani, so as to reach the ischio-rectal fossa, where it is found lying in front of the coccyx. Cutaneous filaments arise from the latter branch, 3F