AETERIES 586 brevis, and the palmar fascia. It lies upon the annular hgament, origin of the muscles of the httle finger, the tendons of the superficial flexor of the fingers, and the divisions of the median and ulnar nerves. Relations of the Superficial Palmar Arch In front. Skin. Palmaris brevis. Palmar fascia. Behind. Annular ligament. Origin of muscles of little finger. Superficial flexor tendons. Divisions of median and ulnar nerves. Branches of the Superficial Palmar Arch Digital. The digital branches (fig. 364), four in number, are given oft* from the con- vexity of the superficial palmar arch. They supply the ulnar side of the little finger, and the adjoining sides of the little, ring, middle, and index fingers; the radial side of the index finger and thumb being supplied from the radial artery. The digital arteries at first lie superficial to the flexor tendons, but as they pass forwards with the digital nerves to the clefts between the fingers, they lie between them, and are there joined by the interosseous branches from the deep palmar arch. The digital arteries on the sides of the fingers lie beneath the digital nerves; and, about the middle of the last phalanx, the two branches for each finger form an arch, from the convexity of which branches pass to supply the pulp of the finger. Surface MarMng.—The superficial palmar arch is represented by a curved line, starting from the outer side of the pisiform bone, and carried downwards as far as the middle third of the palm, and then curved outwards on a level with the upper end of the cleft between the thumb and index finger. The deep palmar arch is situated about half an inch nearer to the carpus. Surgical Anatomy.—Wounds of the palmar arches are of special interest, and are always difficult to deal with. When the wound in the superficial tissues is extensive, it may be possible to secure the bleeding ends of the vessel; but when there is a small punctured wound, as from a penknife or piece of glass, pressure systematically applied is probably the best course of treatment, as there is difticulty in reaching the wounded vessel without damaging important structures. At the same time it must be admitted that pressure applied to the palm of the hand, to arrest haemorrhage from a wound of one of the palmar arches, especially the deep arch, is apt to be followed by sloughing, owing to the rigidity of the parts and the facility with which a considerable amount of pressure can be aj)plied. In wounds of the deep palmar arch, a ligature may be applied to the bleeding points, from the dorsum of the hand, by resection of the upper part of the third metacarpal bone. It is useless in these cases to ligature one of the arteries of the forearm alone, and indeed simultaneous ligature of both radial and ulnar arteries above the wrist is often unsuccessful, on account of the anastomosis carried on by the carpal arches. Therefore, upon the failure of pressure to arrest haemorrhage, it is expedient to apply a ligature to the brachial artery.