THE SKELETON 222 a thin layer of cartilage, lined by a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the shoulder-joint, and receiyes the tendon of insertion of the Latissimus dorsi muscle. The Shaft of the humerus is almost cylindrical in the upper half of its extent, prismatic and flattened below, and presents three borders and three surfaces for examination. The anterior border runs from the front of the great tuberosity above to the coronoid depression below, separating the internal from the external surface. Its upper part is very prominent and rough, and forms the outer lip of the bicipital groove. It is sometimes called the anterior bicipital ridge, and serves for the attachment of the tendon of the Pectoralis major. About its centre it forms the anterior boundary of the rough deltoid impression; below, it is smooth and rounded, affording attachment to the Brachialis anticus. The external border runs from the back part of the greater tuberosity to the external condyle, and separates the external from the posterior surface. It is rounded and indistinctly marked in its upper half, serving for the attachment of the lower part of the insertion of the Teres minor, and below this of the external head of the Triceps muscle ; its centre is traversed by a broad but shallow, oblique depression, the mjisculo-spiral groove ; its lower part is marked by a i^rominent, rough margin, a little curved from behind forwards, the external condyloid ridge, which presents an anterior lip for the attachment of the Supinator longus above, and Extensor carpi radialis longior below, a posterior lip for the Triceps, and an interstice for the attachment of the external intermuscular septum. The internal border extends from the lesser tuberosity to the internal condyle. Its upper third is marked by a prominent ridge, forming the posterior lip of the bicipital groove, and gives attachment to the tendon of the Teres major. About its centre is a rough ridge for the attachment of the Coraco-brachialis, and just below this is seen the entrance of the nutrient canal, directed downwards. Some- times there is a second canal higher up, which takes a similar direction. The inferior third of this border is raised into a slight ridge, the internal condyloid ridge, which becomes very prominent below ; it presents an anterior lip for the attachment of the Brachialis anticus, a posterior lip for the internal head of the Triceps, and an intermediate space for the internal intermuscular septum. The external surface is directed outwards above, where it is smooth, rounded, and covered by the Deltoid muscle ; forwards and outwards below, where it is slightly concave from above downwards, and gives origin to part of the Brachialis anticus muscle. About the middle of this surface is seen a rough, triangular impression for the insertion of the Deltoid muscle ; and below it the musculo-spiral groove, directed obliquely from behind, forwards, and downwards, and transmitting the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. The internal surface, less extensive than the external, is directed inwards above, forwards and inwards below ; at its upper part it is narrow, and forms the floor of the bicipital groove : to it is attached the Latissimus dorsi. The middle part of this surface is slightly rough for the attachment of some of the fibres of the tendon of insertion of the Coraco-brachialis; its lower part is smooth, concave, and gives attachment to the Brachialis anticus muscle.* * A small, hook-shaped process of bone, varying from to ^ of an inch in length, is not nnfreqnently found projecting from the inner surface of the shaft of the humerus two inches above the internal condyle. It is curved downwards, forwards, and inwards, and its pointed extremity is connected to the internal border, just above the inner condyle, by a ligament or fibrous band, completing an arch, through which the median nerve and brachial artery pass, when these structures deviate from their usual course. Sometimes the nerve alone is transmitted throiTgh it, or the nerve may be accompanied by the ulnar artery, in cases of high division of the brachial. A well-marked »roove is usually found behind the process, in which the nerve and artery are lodged. This space is analogous to the supracondvloid foramen in many animals, and probably serves in them to protect the nerve and artery from compression during the contraction of the muscles in this region. A detailed account of this process is given by Dr. Struthers, in his Anatomical a7id Physiological Observations, p. 202. An accessory portion of the