THE SPINE IN GENEEAL Viewed laterally (fig. 129), the spinal column presents several curves, which correspond to the different regions of the column, and are called cervical, dorsal, lumbar, and pelvic. The cervical curve commences at the apex of the odontoid process, and terminates at the middle of the second dorsal vertebra ; it is convex in front, and is the least marked of all the curves. The dorsal curve, which is concave forAvards, commences at the middle of the second, and terminates at the middle of the twelfth dorsal. Its most prominent point behind corresponds to the spine of the seventh dorsal vertebra. The lumbar curve commences at the middle of the last dorsal vertebra, and terminates at the sacro-vertebral angle. It is convex anteriorly; the convexity of the lower three vertebrtB being much greater than that of the upper ones. The pelvic curve commences at the sacro-vertebral articu- lation, and terminates at the point of the coccyx. It is concave anteriorly. The dorsal and pelvic curves are the primary curves, and begin to be formed at an early period of foetal life, and are due to the shape of the bodies of the vertebra. The cervical and lumbar curves are compen- satory or secondary, and are developed after birth in order to maintain the erect position. They are due mainly to the shape of the intervertebral discs. The spine has also a slight lateral curvature, the convexity of which is directed towards the right side. This is most probably produced, as Bichat first explained, chiefly by muscular action; most persons using the right arm in preference to the left, especially in making long-continued efforts, when the body is curved to the right side. In support of this explanation, it has been found, by Beclard, that in one or two individuals who were left-handed, the lateral curva- ture was directed to the left side. The spinal column presents for ex- amination an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces : a base, summit, and spinal canal. The anterior surface presents the bodies of the vertebrae separated in the recent state by the intervertebral discs. The bodies are broad in the cervical region, narrow in the upper part of the dorsal, and broadest in the lumbar region. The whole of this surface is convex Fig. 129.—Lateral view of the spine. K 2