DEVELOPMENT OF THE VEINS 99 other arches, or portions of them, become obhterated or disappear. The first two arches entirely disappear. The third remains as a part of the internal carotid artery, the remainder being formed by the upper part of the posterior aortic root, i.e. the descending part of the original vessel which proceeded from the rudimentary tubular heart. The common and external carotid are formed from the anterior aortic root, that is, the ascending portion of the same primitive vessel. The fourth arch on the left side becomes developed into the permanent arch of the aorta in mammals ; but in birds it is the fourth arch on the right side which forms the aortic arch ; while in reptiles the fourth arch on both sides persists, as there is a permanent double aortic arch. The fourth arch on the right side forms the subclavian artery, and by the junction of its commencement with the anterior aortic root, from which the common carotid is developed, it forms the innominate artery.* The fifth arch on the left side forms the pulmonary artery and the ductus arteriosus ; that on the right side becomes atrophied and disappears. The first part of the fifth left arch remains connected with that part of the bulbous aorta which is separated as the pulmonary stem, and with it forms the common pulmonary artery. From about the middle of this arch two branches are given off, which form the right and left pulmonary arteries respectively, and the remaining portion, i.e. the part beyond the origin of the branches, communicating Avith the left fourth arch—that is, the descending part of the arch of the aorta—constitutes the ductus arteriosus. This duct remains pervious during the whole of foetal life, and after birth becomes obliterated. The development of the arteries in the lower part of the body is going on during the same time. We have seen that originally there were two primitive arteries coming oft' from the primary tubular heart, and that these two vessels, at some distance from the heart, became fused together to form a single median artery, w4iich coursed down in front of the vertebrae to the bottom of the spinal column, forming the permanent descending aorta. From the extremity of this the two vitelline arteries, which were originally parts of the primitive main trunks, pass to the area vasculosa. As the umbilical vesicle dwindles and the allantois grows, two large branches are formed as lateral offshoots of the median aorta. These are the two umbilical or hypogastric arteries, and are concerned in the placental circulation. The portion of the median aorta beyond this point becomes much diminished in size, and eventually forms the sacra media artery, and thus the two umbilical branches become in appearance bifurcating branches of the main aorta. The common and internal iliac arteries are developed from the proximal end of these umbilical arteries; the middle portion of the vessel, after birth, becomes partially atrophied, but in part remains pervious as the superior vesical artery ; the distal portion becomes obliterated, constituting part of the superior ligament of the bladder. The external iliac and femoral arteries are developed from a small branch given off from the umbilical arteries near their origin, and are at first of comparatively small size. Development of the Veins.—The formation of the great veins of the embryo may be best considered under two groups, visceral and parietal. The visceral are derived from the vitelline and umbilical veins. In the earliest period of the circulation of the embryo, we have seen that there were two veins (vitelline or omphalo-mesenteric) returning the blood from the vitelline membrane. These unite together to form a single channel, the sinus venosus, which opens into the auricular extremity of the heart. As soon as the placenta begins to be formed, two umbilical veins appear and open into the sinus venosus, close to the vitelline veins. The two vitelline veins enter the abdomen and run upwards on either side of the intestinal canal; at the upper part of the abdomen, in the site of the future liver, which now begins to form around them, transverse communications are formed, which encircle the duodenum and enclose it in two vascular rings. The portion of veins above these vascular rings loses its connection with the sinus, * This is interesting in connection with the position of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, which is thus seen to hook round the same primitive fcetal structure, which becomes on the right side the subclavian artery, on the left the arch of the aorta. H 2