275 CALCANEUM which projects horizontally inwards from its upper and fore part, and to which a slip of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus is attached. This process is concave above, and supports the anterior articular surface of the astragalus ; below, it is grooved for the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis. Its free margin is rough for the attachment of part of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The anterior surface, of a somewhat triangular form, articulates with the cuboid. It is concave .from above, downwards and outwards, and convex in the opposite direction. Its inner border gives attachment to the inferior calcaneo- navicular ligament. The posterior surface is rough, prominent, convex, and wider below than above. Its lower part is rough, for the attachment of the tendo Achillis, and of the Plantaris muscle ; its upper part is smooth, and is covered by a bursa which separates the tendon from the bone. Articulations.—With two bones : the astragalus and cuboid. Attachment of Muscles.—To eight: part of the Tibialis posticus, the tendo Achillis, Plantaris, Abductor hallucis. Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis digi- torum. Flexor accessorius, and Extensor brevis digitorum. The Asteagalus The Astrag-alus {ao-rpdyaXos, a die) is the largest of the tarsal bones, next to the OS calcis. It occupies the middle and upper part of the tarsus, supporting the tibia above, articulating with the malleoli on either side, resting below upon the OS calcis, and joined in front to the navicular. This bone may easily be recognised by its large rounded head, by the broad articular facet on its upper convex surface, or by the two articular facets separated by a deep groove on its under concave surface. It presents six surfaces for examination. The superior surface presents, behind, a broad smooth trochlear surface, for articulation with the tibia. The trochlea is broader in front than behind, convex from before backwards, slightly concave from side to side; in front of it is the upper surface of the neck of the astragalus ; rough for the attachment of ligaments. The inferior surface presents two articular facets separated by a deep groove. The groove runs obliquely forwards and outwards, becoming gradually broader and deeper in front: it corresponds with a similar groove upon the upper surface of the OS calcis, and forms, when articulated with that bone, a canal, filled up in the recent state by the interosseous calcaneo-astragaloid ligament. Of the two articular facets, the posterior is the larger, of an oblong form, and deeply concave from side to side; the anterior, although nearly of equal length, is narrower, of an elongated oval form, convex longitudinally, and often subdivided into two by an elevated ridge; of these the posterior articulates with the lesser process of the os calcis; the anterior, with the upper surface of the inferior calcaneo-navicular liga- ment. The internal surface presents at its upper part a pear-shaped articular facet for the inner malleolus, continuous above with the trochlear surface ; below the articular surface is a rough depression, for the attachment of the deep portion of the internal lateral ligament. The external surface presents a large triangular facet, concave from above downwards, for articulation with the external malleolus ; it is continuous above with the trochlear surface ; and in front of it is a rough depression for the attachment of the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The anterior surface, convex and rounded, forms the head of the astragalus ; it is smooth, of an oval form, and directed obliquely inwards and downwards ; it articulates with the navicular. On its under surface is a small facet, continuous in front with the articular surface of the head, and behind with the smaller facet for the os calcis. This rests on the inferior calcaneo- navicular ligament, being separated from it by the synovial membrane, which is prolonged from the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint to the astragalo-navicular joint. The head is surrounded by a constricted portion, the neck of the astragalus. The posterior surface is narrow, and traversed by a groove, which runs obliquely T 2