VEINS 654 The external and internal plantar veins unite to form the posterior tibial. They accomi^any the posterior tibial artery, and are joined by the i^eroneal veins. The anterior tibial veins are formed by a continuation upwards of the venae comites of the dorsalis pedis artery. They pass between the tibia and fibula, through the large oval aperture above the interosseous membrane, and form, by their junction with the posterior tibial, the popliteal vein. The valves in the deep veins are very numerous. The Popliteal Vein is formed by the junction of the venas comites of the anterior and posterior tibial vessels ; it ascends through the popliteal space to the tendinous aperture in the Adductor magnus, where it "becomes the femoral vein. In the lower part of its course, it is placed internal to the artery; between the heads of the Gastrocnemius, it is superficial to that vessel; but above the knee- joint, it is close to its outer side. It receives the sural veins from the Gastro- cnemius muscle, the articular veins, and the external saphenous. The valves in this vein are usually four in number. The Femoral Vein accompanies the femoral artery through the upper two- thirds of the thigh. In the lower part of its course it lies external to the artery ; higher up, it is behind it; and at Poupart's ligament, it lies to its inner side, and on the same plane. It receives numerous muscular tributaries : the profunda femoris and deep external pudic veins join it near Poupart's ligaii^^ent, and about an inch and a half below the internal saphenous vein. The valves in this vein are four or five in number. The External Iliac Vein commences at the termination of the femoral, beneath . the crural arch, and, passing upwards along the brim of the pelvis, terminates opposite the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, by uniting with the internal iliac to form the common iliac vein. On the right side, it lies at first along the inner side of the external iliac artery; but as it passes upwards, gradually inclines behind it. On the left side, it lies altogether on the inner side of the artery. It receives, immediately above Poupart's ligament, the deep epigastric and deep circumflex iliac veins and a small pubic vein, corresponding to the pubic branch of the obturator artery. According to Friedreich, it frequently contains one and some- times two valves. The Deep Epigastric Veins.—Two veins accompany the deep epigastric artery ; they usually unite into a single trunk before their termination in the external iliac vein. The Deep Circumflex Iliac Veins—Two veins accompany the deep circumflex iliac artery. These unite into a single trunk which crosses the external iliac artery just above Poupart's ligament, and terminates in the external iliac vein. The Internal Iliac Vein is formed by the venae comites of the branches of the internal iliac artery, the umbilical arteries excepted. It receives the blood from the exterior of the pelvis by the gluteal, sciatic, internal pudic, and obturator veins; and from the organs in the cavity of the pelvis by the haemorrhoidal and vesico-prostatic plexuses in the male, and the uterine and vaginal plexuses in the female. The vessels forming these plexuses are remarkable for their large size, their frequent anastomoses, and the number of valves which they contain. The internal iliac vein lies at first on the inner side, and then behind the internal iliac artery, and terminates opposite the sacro-iliac articulation, by uniting with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein. This vessel has no valves. The internal pudic veins {vencB comites) have the same course as the internal pudic artery. They receive tributaries corresponding to the branches of the artery except the tributary corresponding to the dorsal artery of the penis, that is, the dorsal vein of the penis, which opens into the prostatic plexus. The haemorrhoidal plexus surrounds the lower end of the rectum, being formed by the superior haemorrhoidal veins (tributaries of the inferior mesenteric), and the middle and inferior haemorrhoidal, which terminate in the internal iliac. The portal and general venous systems have a free communication by means of the branches composing this plexus.