THE MAMMARY GLAND T045 or even black colour. This colour diminishes as soon as lactation is over, but is never entirely lost throughout life. These changes in the colour of the areola are of importance in forming a conclusion in a case of suspected first pregnancy. The nipple is a cylindrical or conical eminence, capable of undergoing a sort of erection from mechanical excitement, a change mainly due to the contraction of its muscular fibres. It is of a pink or brownish hue, its surface wrinkled and provided with papillae; and it is perforated by numerous orifices, the apertures of the lactiferous ducts. Near the base of the nipple, and upon the surface of the areola, are numerous sebaceous glands, which become much enlarged during lactation, and present the appearance of small tubercles beneath the skin. These glands secrete a peculiar fatty substance, which serves as a protection to the integument of the nipple during the act of sucking. The nipple consists of numerous vessels, intermixed with plain muscular fibres which are principally arranged in a circular manner around the base : some few^ fibres radiating from base to apex. Structure.—The mamma consists of gland-tissue; of fibrous tissue, connecting its lobes ; and of fatty tissue in the intervals between the lobes. The gland-ti.ssue, when freed from fibrous tissue and fat, is of a pale reddish colour, firm in texture, circular in form, flattened from before backwards, thicker in the centre than at the circumference, and presenting several inequalities on its surface, especially in front. It consists of numerous lobes, and these are composed of lobules, connected together by areolar tissue, blood-vessels, and ducts. The smallest lobules consist of a cluster of rounded vesicles, which open into the smallest branches of the lactiferous ducts ; these ducts uniting form larger ducts, which terminate in a single canal, correspond- ing with one of the chief subdivisions of the gland. The number of excretory ducts varies from fifteen to twenty : they are termed the tuhuli lactiferi, or galactophori. They converge towards the areola, beneath which they form dilatations, or ampuUcBy which serve as reservoirs for the milk, and, at the base of the nipple, become contracted, and pursue a straight course to its summit, perforating it by separate orifices considerably narrower than the ducts themselves. The ducts are composed of areolar tissue, with longitudinal and transverse elastic fibres, and longitudinal muscular fibres : their mucous lining is continuous, at the point of the nipple, with the integument. The epithelium of the mammary gland differs according to the state of activity of the organ. In the gland of a woman who is not pregnant or suckling, the alveoli are very small and solid, being filled with a mass of granular polyhedral cells. During pregnancy the alveoli enlarge, and the cells undergo rapid multiplication. At the commencement of lactation, the cells in the centre of the alveolus undergo fatty degeneration, and are eliminated in the first milk, as colostrum corpuscles. The peripheral cells of the alveolus remain, and form a single layer of granular, short columnar cells, with a spherical nucleus, lining the limiting membrana propria. These cells, during the state of activity of the gland, are capable of forming, in their interior, oil-globules, which are then ejected into the lumen of the alveolus, and constitute the milk-globules. The fibrous tissue invests the entire surface of the breast, and sends down septa between its lobes, connecting them together. The fatty tissue surrounds the surface of the gland, and occupies the interval between its lobes. It usually exists in considerable abundance, and determines the form and size of the gland. There is no fat immediately beneath the areola and nipple. Vessels and Nerves,—The arteries supplying the mamm« are derived from the thoracic branches of the axillary, the intercostals, and internal mammary. The veins describe an anastomotic circle round the base of the nipple, called by Haller the circulus venosus. From this, large branches transmit the blood to the circumference of the gland, and end in the axillary and internal mammary veins. The lymphatics, for the most part, run along the lower border of the Pectoralis major to the axillary glands ; some few, from the inner side of the breast, perforate the intercostal spaces and empty themselves into the anterior mediastinal glands. The nerves are derived from the anterior and lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax.