CRANIAL NERVES 764 The ganglion of the root is of a greyish colour, circular in form, about two lines in diameter, and resembles the ganglion on the large root of the fifth nerve. Connecting branches.—To this ganglion the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve is connected by several delicate filaments ; it also has a communi- cating twig with the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, with the facial nerve by means of its auricular branch, and with the sympathetic by means of an ascending filament from the superior cervical ganglion. The ganglion of the trunk (inferior) is a plexiform cord, cylindrical in form, of a reddish colour, and about an inch in length; it involves the whole of the fibres of the nerve, and passing through it is the accessory portion of the spinal acces- sory nerve, which blends with the pneumogastric below the ganglion, and is then principally continued into its pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches. Connecting branches.—This ganglion is connected with the hypoglossal, the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and the loop between the first and second cervical nerves. The branches of the pneumogastric are— In the iugular fossa . . . f^^^^ii^g^^^ 1 Auricular. , Pharyngeal. In the neck .... ! Superior laryngeal. 1 Recurrent laryngeal. I Cervical cardiac. / Thoracic cardiac. I Anterior pulmonary. ' 1 Posterior pulmonary. '.(Esophageal. In the abdomen .... Gastric. In the thorax The meningeal branch is a recurrent branch given off from the ganglion of the root in the jugular foramen. It passes backwards and is distributed to the dura mater covering the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. The auricular branch (ArnokVs) arises from the ganglion of the root, and is joined soon after its origin by a filament from the petrous ganglion of the glosso- pharyngeal ; it passes outwards behind the jugular vein, and enters a small canal on the outer wall of the jugular fossa. Traversing the substance of the temporal bone, it crosses the aqueductus Fallopii about two lines above its termination at the stylo-mastoid foramen ; here it gives off an ascending branch, which joins the facial: the continuation of the nerve reaches the surface by passing through the auricular fissure between the mastoid process and the external auditory meatus, and divides into two branches, one of which communicates with the posterior auricular nerve, while the other supplies the integument at the back part of the pinna and the posterior part of the external auditory meatus. The pharyngeal branch, the principal motor nerve of the pharynx, arises from the upper part of the inferior ganglion of the pneumogastric. It consists principally of filaments from the accessory portion of the spinal accessory; it passes across the internal carotid artery (in front or behind), to the upper border of the Middle constrictor, where it divides into numerous filaments, which join with those from the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal (its external branch), and sympathetic, to form the pharyngeal plexus, from which branches are distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx and the muscles of the soft palate. From the pharyngeal plexus a minute filament is given off, which descends and joins the hypoglossal nerve as it winds round the occipital artery. The superior laryngeal is the nerve of sensation to the larynx. It is larger than the preceding, and arises from the middle of the inferior ganglion of the pneumogastric. It consists principally of filaments from the accessory portion of the spinal accessory. In its course it receives a branch from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. It descends, by the side of the pharynx, behind the