VEINS 652 principal canal, which is sometimes double towards its posterior part, and open into the corresponding transverse branch uniting the anterior longitudinal veins. They become greatly developed in advanced age. 4. The Veins of the Spinal (^ovdi [medulli-simial) consist of a minute, tortuous, venous plexus which covers the entire surface of the cord, being situated between the pia mater and arachnoid. These vessels emerge chiefly from the median furrows, and are largest in the lumbar region. Near the base of the skull they unite, and form tAvo or three small trunks, which communicate with the vertebral veins, and then terminate in the inferior cerebellar veins, or in the inferior petrosal sinuses. Each of the spinal nerves is accompanied by a branch as far as the intervertebral foramina, where they join the other veins from the spinal canal. There are no valves in the spinal veins. VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS The Veins of the Lower Extremity are subdivided, like those of the upper, into two sets, superficial and deep : the superficial veins being placed beneath the integument, between the two layers of superficial fascia ; the deep veins accom- panying the arteries, and forming the venae comites of those vessels. Both sets of veins are provided with valves, which are more numerous in the deep than in the superficial set. These valves are also more numerous in the lower than in the upper limb. The Superficial Veins of the Lower Extremity are the internal or long saphenous, and the external or short saphenous. On the dorsum of the foot is a venous arch, situated in the superficial structures over the anterior extremities of the metatarsal bones. It has its convexity directed forwards, and receives digital tributaries from the upper surface of the toes ; at its concavity it is joined by numerous small veins, which form a plexus on the dorsum of the foot. The arch terminates internally in the long saphenous, externally in a short saphenous vein. The internal or long saphenous vein (fig. 391) commences at the inner side of the arch on the dorsum of the foot ; it ascends in front of the inner malleolus, and along the inner side of the leg, behind the inner margin of the tibia, accompanied by the internal saphenous nerve. At the knee, it passes backwards behind the inner condyle of the femur, ascends along the inside of the thigh, and, passing through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, terminates in the femoral vein about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament. This vein receives in its course cutaneous tributaries from the leg and thigh, and at the saphenous opening the superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, and external pudic veins. The veins from the inner and back part of the thigh frequently unite to form a large vessel, which enters the main trunk near the saphenous opening ; and sometimes those on the outer side of the thigh join to form another large vessel; so that occasionally three large veins are seen converging from different parts of the thigh towards the saphenous opening. The internal saphenous vein communicates in the foot with the internal plantar vein; in the leg, with the posterior tibial veins, by branches which perforate the tibial origin of the Soleus muscle, and also with the anterior tibial veins ; at the knee, with the articular veins ; in the thigh, with the femoral vein by one or more branches. The valves in this vein vary from two to six in number; they are more numerous in the thigh than in the leg. The external or short saphenous vein (fig. 392) commences at the outer side of the arch on the dorsum of the foot; it ascends behind the outer malleolus, and along the outer border of the tendo Achilhs, across which it passes at an acute angle to reach the middle line of the posterior aspect of the leg. Passing directly upwards, it perforates the deep fascia in the lower part of the popliteal space, and terminates in the popliteal vein, between the heads of the Gastro-