P08TERI0K TIBIO-FIBULAR REGION the thickest and strongest toiulon in the body. It is about six inches in length, and commenc(^s about the middle of the le^-, but receives fleshy libres on its anterior surfaci', nearly to it^< lower end. (ii'adually becoming contracted boknv, it is inserted inLo tlie lower part of the posterior surlaee of the os calcis, a synovial bursa being interposed between the tendon and the upper part of this surface. The tendon spreads out somewhat at its lower end, so that its narrowest part is usually about an inch and a half above its insertion. The tendon is covered by the fascia and the integument, and is sepai-atcul from ilu> <l(H'p mnselcs and vessels by a considerable interval filled up with art'olai- and adipose :issue. Along its outer side, but superlicial to it, is the external saphenous vein. The Plantaris is an extremely diminutix muscle, placed between the Gastro- cnemius and Soleus, and remarkable for its long and delicate tendon. It arises from the Iowcm- part of the outer prolongation of the linea, asi)era, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. It forms a small fusiform holly, about three or four inches in length, terminating in a long slender tendon which crosses obliquely betw^een the two muscles of the calf, and, running along the inner border of the tendo Achillis, is inserted with it into the posterior part of the os calcis. This muscle is occasionally double, and is sometimes Avanting. Occasionally, its tendon is lost in tho internal annular ligament, or in the fascia of the h^g. Nerves.—These muscles are supplied by the internal poplitt^al lu^rve. Actions.—The muscles of the calf possess considerable [Xiwer, a,nd are constantly called into use in standing, walking, dancing, and leaping; hence the large size they usually present. In walking, tliese muscles draw powerfully upon the OS calcis, raising the heel, and w ith it the entire body, from the ground; the body being thus supported on the raised foot, the opposite limb can he (Miri'it>d forAvards. In standing, the Soleus, taking its fixed point from below, steadies the leg upon the foot, and prevents the body from falling forwards, to which theri> is a constant tendency from the superincumbent weight. The Gastroencuiiiiis, acting from below, serves to flex the femur upon the tibia, assisted by the Popliteus. The Plantaris is the rudiment of a large muscle Avhich exists in some of the \o\\vv animals, and serves as a tensor of the plantai* fascia. In man it is merely an accessory to the Gastrocnemius, extending the ankle if the foot is free, or bending the knee if the foot is lixed. Dccj) Layer Popliteus. Flexor longus digitorum. Flexor longus hallucis. Tibialis posticus. Dissrc/ion. - - Detach tho Soleus from its attachnunit to the fibula and tibia, and turn it downwanls. \\ hen the det^p la\ er of muscles is e\]>ese(l. covered by the deep transverse fascia of the leg. The Deep Transverse Fascia of the leg is a broad, transverse, intermuscular septum, interposed between the superficial and deep muscles in the posterior tibio-fibular region. On either side it is connected to the margins of the tibia and fibula. Above, Avhere it covers the Popliteus, it is thick and dense, and receives an expansion from the tendon of ihv Semimembi'aiu^sns ; it is tbiinun- in the middle of the leg ; but belov.', where it co\ ei's the t(>ndons passing behind the malleoli, it is thickened. It is eontimu'd onwards in the interval between the ankle and the heel, where it covers the vessels, and is blended with the internal amnilar ligament. This fascia should now be remo\'ed, couuui ueiuu- from below opposite^ the tendons, and detaching it from the nmscles in the dircctiou of their libres. The Popliteus is a thin, flat, triangular muscle, which forms part of the floor of the poplitt^al space, and is covered by a tendinous expansion, derived from the Semimembranosus nnisele. It arises by a strong tendon about an inch in length, from a deep depression on the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and is inserted into the inner