839 THE CHOROID pierced, behind by the optic nerve, and extends in front as far forwards as the ciliary ligament, where it is connected with the iris, and bends inwards, forming on its inner surface a series of folds or plaitings, the ciliary processes. It is thicker behind than in front. Externally, it is connected by a fine cellular web [inemhrana fusca) with the inner surface of the sclerotic. Its inner surface is smooth, and lies in contact with the retina. Structure.—The choroid consists mainly of a, dense capillary plexus and of small arteries and veins, carrying the blood to and returning it from this plexus. On its external surface, i.e. the surface next the sclerotic, is a thin membrane of fine elastic fibres, arranged in lamellag, which are covered with endothelium, and form spaces, which communicate by perforations in the sclerotic, through which the vessels and nerves enter, with the capsule of Tenon. This layer is named the lamina suprachoroidea, and is continuous with the lamina fusca of the sclerotic. Internal to this is the choroid proper, and in consequence of the small arteries and veins being arranged on the outer surface of the capillary network, it is customary to describe this as consisting of two layers : the outermost composed of small arteries and veins, with pigment-cells interspersed between them, and the inner consisting of a capillary plexus. The external layer consists, in part, of the larger branches of the short ciliary arteries which run forwards between the veins, before they bend inwards to terminate in the capillaries ; but is formed principally of veins, which are named, from their arrangement, vencB vorticoscB. They converge to four or five equidistant trunks, which pierce the sclerotic midway between the margin of the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. Interspersed between the vessels are lodged dark star-shaped pigment-cells, the fibrous offsets from which, communicating with similar branchings from neigh- bouring cells, form a delicate network or stroma, which towards the inner surface of the choroid loses its pigmentary character. The internal layer consists of an exceedingly fine capillary plexus, formed by the short ciliary vessels, and is known as the timica BuyscJiiana. The network is close, and finer at the hinder part of the choroid than in front. About half an inch behind the cornea its meshes become larger, and are continuous with those of the ciliary processes. On the inner surface of this tunic is a very thin, structureless, or, according to Kolliker, faintly fibrous membrane, called the lamina vitrea ; it is closely connected with the stroma of the choroid, and separates it from the pigmentary layer of the retina. The ciliary processes should now be examined. They may be exposed, either by detaching the iris from its connection with the Ciliary muscle, or by making a transverse section of the globe, and examining them from behind. Fig. 489.—The veins of the choroid. (Enlarged.)