STKUCTURE OF THE CEREBRUM 725 Fig. 432.—Grey matter of the cerebral cortex. (Meynert.) medullary substance, situated in the depression between the nucleus caudatus and the optic thalamus. Anteriorly, it descends in connection with the anterior pillar of the fornix to below the level of the foramen of Monro, where it enters a mass of grey matter, the nucleus amygdalce ; behind, it is continued into the roof of the middle or descending horn of the lateral ventricle, and is lost near the bottom of the cornua. (e) The/orm'x connects the optic thalamus with the hippocampus major and uncinate convolution. It has already been de- scribed as arising from the grey matter of the optic thalamus; it then emerges from the under surface of this body, forms the corpus albicans, where the fibres are arranged in loops, between which nerve-cells are to be found; it then passes upwards into the third ventricle and joins with the fibres of the other side forming the body of the fornix ; from this the posterior pillars diverge and, entering the middle cornu of the lateral ventricle, part of its fibres are distributed to the hippocampus major, and the remainder end as the taenia hippocampi or fimbria, which is continued as a distinct piece to the crochet or uncus of the uncinate convolution. (/) The inferior longitudinal fasciculus is a collection of fibres which connects the temporo- sphenoidal and occipital lobes, running along the outer wall of the middle and posterior cornu. The grey matter of the cerebrum is disposed in three great groups :—i. The grey matter of the cerebral cortex. 2. The grey matter of the basal ganglia, that is, the great ganglia of the base of the cerebrum. 3. The grey matter which lines the internal surface of the upper part of the cerebro- spinal tube, that is, the remains of the cavity in the original vesicles from which the brain was formed, and which constitutes the central cavities of the organ. I. The grey matter of the cortex (fig. 432) invests the surface of the hemispheres and gives them external form. When vertical sections are made through it, and examined microscopically, it is found to consist of five separate layers, but to this there are some exceptions. According to Meynert these exceptions are to be found: (i) in the posterior portion of the occipital lobe ; (2) in the grey cortex of the hippocampus major; (3) in the wall of the fissure of Sylvius ; and (4) in the olfactory bulb. The five layers in the common type are as follows : (i) The first layer is principally ' composed of a matrix or neuroglia, through which a few small ganglion-cells are irregularly distributed, and a nerve-fibre network. (2) The second layer consists of numerous small pyramidal cells, which have their long axes vertical to the surface of the convolutions, and are closely aggregated together so as to completely fill the layer with a number of closely compressed cells. (3) The third layer is named by Meynert the' formation of the cornu Ammonis, as it is made up of cells, which are the only morphological element found in this part. It consists of the same sort of pyramidal cells, arranged vertically to the surface, as was found in the preceding layer, but they are of very m.uch larger