FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION I032 downwards from the mons Veneris to the anterior boundary of the perinasum, and enclosing the common mdno-sexual opening. Each labium is formed, externally, of integument covered with hair ; internally, of mucous membrane,* which is continuous with the genito-urinary mucous tract; and between the two, of a considerable quantity of areolar tissue, fat, and a tissue resembling the dartos of the scrotum, besides vessels, nerves, and glands. The labia are thicker in front, where they form by their meeting the anterior commissure. Posteriorly they are not really joined, but appear to become lost in the neighbouring integument, terminating close to, and nearly parallel with each other. Together with the connectiug skin between them, they form the posterior commissure, or posterior boundary of the vulval orifice. The interval between the posterior commissure and the anus, about an inch to an inch and a quarter in length, constitutes the perinfeum. The fourchette is the anterior edge of the perineum, and between it Fig. 612.—Vertical median section of the female pelvis. 1 and the hymen is a depression, the fossa navicularis. The labia correspond to the scrotum in the male. The Labia Minora, or Nymphse, are two small cutaneous folds, situated within the labia majora, and extending from the clitoris obliquely downwards, outwards, and backwards for about an inch and a half on each side of the orifice of the vagina, between which and the labia majora they are lost. Anteriorly, the two labia minora meet, and form the frcBimm of the clitoris. The prepuce of the clitoris, passing backwards on each side, is inserted, as it were, into the labia, but is not actually a part of them. The nymphse are really modified skin. Their internal surfaces have numerous sebaceous follicles. * The term mucous membrane is used here in its broad sense to denote an internal surface kept continuously moist by secretion, and communicating directly or indirectly with the external air.