936 ORGANS OF DIGESTION The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and invests the greater part of the sm-face of the organ. It is intimately adherent to the fibrous coat. The fibrous coat Ues beneath the serous investment, and covers the entire surface of the organ. It is difficult of demonstration, excepting where the serous coat is deficient. At the transverse fissure it is continuous with the capsule of Glisson, and, on the surface of the organ, with the areolar tissue separating the lobules. The lobules form the chief mass of the hepatic substance; they may be seen either on the surface of the organ, or by making a section through the gland. They are small granular bodies, about the size of a millet seed, measuring from one-twentieth to one-tenth of an inch in diameter. In the human subject their outline is very irregular ; but in some of the lower animals (for example, the pig) they are well-defined, and, when divided transversely, have a polygonal outline. If divided longitudinally they are more or less foliated or oblong. The bases of the lobules are clustered round the smallest radicles (sublobular) of the hepatic veins, to which each is connected by means of a small branch which issues from the centre of the lobule {intralobular). The remaining part of the surface of each lobule is imperfectly isolated from the surrounding lobules by a thin stratum of Fig. 551.—Horizontal section of liver (dog). Intralobular vein areolar tissue, in which is contained a plexus of vessels (the interlobular i)lexus) and ducts. In some animals, as the pig, the lobules are completely isolated one from another by this interlobular areolar tissue. If one of the sublobular veins be laid open, the bases of the lobules may be seen through the thin wall of the vein on which they rest, arranged in the form of a tesselated pavement, the centre of each polygonal space presenting a minute aperture, the mouth of an intralobular vein (fig. 549). Microscopic appearance.—Each lobule is composed of a mass of cells {lieimtic cells), surrounded by a dense capillary plexus, composed of vessels which penetrate from the circumference to the centre of the lobule, and terminate in a single straight vein, which runs through its centre, to open at its base into one of the radicles of the hepatic vein. Between the cells are also the minute com- mencements of the bile-ducts. Therefore, in the lobule we have all the essentials of a secreting gland ; that is to say : (i) cells, by which the secretion is formed ; (2) blood-vessels, in close relation with the cells, containing the blood from which the secretion is derived ; and (3) ducts, by which the secretion, when formed, is carried away. Each of these structures will have to be further considered. (i) The hepatic cells are of more or less spheroidal form ; but may be rounded, flattened, or many-sided from mutual compression. They vary in size from the