oectAns of sense 844 continuous Avith a nerve-fibre. From the opposite extremity of the cell one or more thicker processes extend into the inner molecular layer, where they divide dichotomously and become lost in its reticulum, or, according to some, pass through this layer to reach the inner nuclear layer. 4. The inner molecular layer consists of a stratum of granular-looking sub- stance, from which circumstance it is sometimes called the ' inner granular ' layer. It is made up of a dense reticulum of minute fibrils, intermingled with the fine processes of the ganglion-cells and also processes derived from certain cells contained in the next layer, immediately to be described. No direct connection between these sets of processes has yet been demonstrated, but it is considered probable that they do communicate, and that there is therefore a direct connection between the ganglion-cells of the vesicular layer and the nuclear cells of the inner nuclear layer. Within the reticulum formed by these fibrils minute clear granules, of unknown nature, are embedded. 5. The inner nuclear layer is made up of nuclear bodies, of which there are Fig. 493. Fig. 494. Vertical sections of tlie'humau retina. Fig. 493, half an inch from the entrance of the optic nerve. Fig. 494, close to the latter, i. Layer of rods and cones (columnar laiier), hoiXnded underneath by the memhrana. limitans externa. 2. External nuclear layer. 3. Outer molecular layer. 4. Internal nuclear layer. 5. Inner molecular layer. 6. Layer of the ganglion-cells. 7. Expansion of optic fibres. 8. Sustentacular fibres of Mliller. g. Their attachment to the membrana limitans interna. three different kinds, (i) A large number of oval nuclei, which are commonly regarded as bipolar nerve-cells, and are much more numerous than either of the other kind. They consist of a large oval nuclear body placed vertically to the surface, containing a distinct nucleolus : they are surrounded by a small amount of protoplasm, which is prolonged into two processes, one of these passes inwards into the inner molecular layer, is varicose in appearance, and, as stated above, is , believed to be continuous with the processes of the ganglion-cells. The other process passes outwards, into the outer molecular layer, and there bifurcates. According to some observers the divisions thus formed communicate with the rod and cone fibres (Merkel). (2) At the innermost part of this inner nuclear layer is a stratum of cells, which are not branched. (3) Some few cells are also found in this layer, connected with the fibres of Mliller, and will be described with those structures. Jt 6. The outer molecular layer is much thinner than the inner molecular layer but, like it, consists of a dense network of minute fibrils, and presents the sam^H