THE THOBAX THE Thorax is a conical-shaped cavity, containing and protecting the heart, enclosed in its membranous bag, the pericardium ; and the lungs, invested by the pleura. Its shape and boundaries have already been described (see page 199). The cavity of the thorax.—The size of the cavity of the thorax does not correspond with its apparent size externally, because (i) the space enclosed by the lower ribs is occupied by some of the abdominal viscera ; and (^2) the cavity extends above the first rib into the neck. The size of the cavity of the thorax is constantly varying during life with the movements of the ribs and Diaphragm, and with the degree of distension of the abdominal viscera. From the collapsed state of the lungs in the dead body, it would appear as if the viscera only partly filled the cavity of the thorax, but during life there is no vacant space, that which is seen after death being filled up by the expanded lungs. The upper openings of the thorax.—The parts which pass through the upper opening of the thorax are, from before backwards in the middle line, the Sterno- hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, the trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct, and the Longus colli muscle of each side ; at the sides, the innominate artery, the left common carotid and left subclavian arteries, the internal mammary and superior intercostal arteries, the right and left inno- minate veins, and the inferior thyroid veins, the pneumogastric, cardiac, phrenic, and sympathetic nerves, the anterior branch of the first dorsal nerve, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the left side. The apex of each lung, covered by the pleura, also projects through this aperture, a little above the margin of the first rib. The lower opening of the thorax is wider transversely than from before back- wards. It slopes obliquely downwards and backwards, so that the cavity of the thorax is much deeper behind than in front. The Diaphragm (see page 421) closes in the opening, forming the floor of the thorax. The floor is flatter at the centre than at the sides, and is higher on the right side than on the left, corresponding in the dead body to the upper border of the fifth costal cartilage on the former, and to the corresponding part of the sixth costal cartilage on the latter. From the highest point on each side the floor slopes suddenly downwards to the attachment of the Diaphragm to the ribs ; this is more marked behind than in front, so that only a narrow space is left between it and the wall of the thorax. The Pericabdium The Pericardium (figs. 560, 561) is a conical membranous sac, in which the heart and the commencement of the great vessels are contained. It is placed behind the sternum, and the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs of the left side, in the interval between the pleurae. Its apex is directed upwards, and surrounds the great vessels about two inches above their origin from the base of the heart. Its base is attached to the central tendon and part of the adjoining muscular structure of the Diaphragm, extending a little farther to the left than to the right side. In front it is separated from the