SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL REGION 383 The muscles contained in each of these I. Superficial Begion. Platysma myoides. Sterno-cleido-mastoid. Infm-hyoid Begion. 2. Depressors of the Os hyoides and Larynx. Sterno-hyoid. Sterno-thyroid. Thyro-hyoid. Omo-hyoid. Supra-liyoid Begion. 3. Elevators of tlie Os liyoides and Larynx. Digastric. Stylo-hyoid. Mylo-hyoid. Genio-hyoid. Lingual Begion. 4. Muscles of the Tongue. Genio-hyo-glossus. Hyo-glossus. Lingualis. Stylo-giossus. Palato-glossus. groups are the following :— 5. Muscles of the Pharynx. Constrictor inferior. Constrictor medius. Constrictor superior. Stylo-pharyngeus. Palato-pharyngeus. 6. Muscles of the Soft PcUate. Levator palati. Tensor palati. Azygos uvulfe. Palato-glossus. Palato-pharyngeus. 7. Muscles of tlie Anterior Vertebral Begion. Rectus capitis anticus major. Eectus capitis anticus minor. Rectus lateralis. Longus colli. 8. Muscles of the Lateral Vertebral Begion. Scalenus anticus. Scalenus medius. Scalenus posticus. 9. Muscles of tlie Lari/nx. Included in the description of the Larynx, I. Superficial Cekvical Region Platysma myoides. Sterno-cleido-mastoid. Dissection.—A block having been placed at the back of the neck, and the face turned to the side opposite that to be dissected, so as to place the parts upon the stretch, make two transverse incisions : one from the chin, along the margin of the lower jaw, to the mastoid process; and the other along the upper border of the clavicle. Connect these by an oblique incision made in the course of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, from the mastoid process to the sternum; the two flaps of integument having been removed in the direction shown in fig. 268, the superficial fascia will be exposed. The Superficial Cervical Fascia is a thin, aponeurotic lamina, which is hardly demonstrable as a separate membrane. Beneath it is found the Platysma myoides muscle. The Platysma myoides (fig. 269) is a broad, thin plane of muscular fibres, placed immediately beneath the superficial fascia on each side of the neck. It arises by thin, fibrous bands from the fascia covering the upper part of the Pectoral and Deltoid muscles ; its fibres proceed obliquely upwards and inwards along the side of the neck. The anterior fibres interlace, in front of the jaw, with the fibres of the muscle of the opposite side; the posterior fibres pass over the lower jaw, a few of them being attached to the bone below the external oblique line, the greater number passing on to be inserted into the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the lower part of the face, many of these fibres blending with the muscles about the angle and lower part of the mouth. Sometimes fibres can be traced to the Zygomatic muscles, or to the margin of the Orbicularis palpebrarum. Beneath the Platysma, the external jugular vein may be seen descending from the angle of the jaw to the clavicle.