ARTICULATIONS 296 4. Ligaments connecting the Spinous Peocesses Supraspinous. Interspinous. The Supraspinous Ligament (fig. 227) is a strong fibrous cord, which connects together the apices of the spinous processes from the seventh cervical to the spinous processes of the sacrum. It is thicker and broader in the lumbar than in the dorsal region, and intimately blended, in both situations, with the neighbouring aponeu- rosis. The most superficial fibres of this ligament connect three or four vertebrae ; those deeper-seated pass between two or three vertebrae ; whilst the deepest connect the contiguous extremities of neighbouring vertebrae. It is continued upwards to the external occipital protuberance, as the ligamentum nuchae, which, in the human subject, is thin, and forms merely an intermuscular septum. The Interspinous Ligaments (fig. 227), thin and membranous, are interposed between the spinous processes. Each ligament extends from the root to the summit of each spinous process, and connects together their adjacent margins. They are narrow and elongated in the dorsal region ; broader, quadrilateral in form, and thicker m the lumbar region ; and only slightly developed in the neck. 5. Ligaments connecting the Transveese Peocesses Intertransverse. The Intertransverse Ligaments consist of bundles of fibres, interposed between the transverse processes. In the cervical region they consist of a few irregular, scattered fibres ; in the dorsal, they are rounded cords intimately con- nected with the deep muscles of the back ; in the lumbar region they are thin and membranous. Actions.—The movements permitted in the spinal column are. Flexion, Exten- sion, Lateral Movement, Circumduction, and Rotation. In Flexion, or movement of the spine forwards, the anterior common ligament is relaxed, and the intervertebral substances are compressed in front ; while the posterior common ligament, the ligamenta subflava, and the inter- and supra- spinous ligaments are stretched, as well as the posterior fibres of the intervertebral discs. The interspaces between the laminae are widened, and the inferior articular processes of the vertebrae above glide upwards, upon the articular processes of the vertebrae below. Flexion is the most extensive of all the movements of the spine. In Extension, or movement of the spine backwards, an exactly opposite dis- position of the parts takes place. This movement is not extensive, being limited by the anterior common ligament, and by the approximation of the spinous processes. Flexion and extension are most free in the lower part of the lumbar region between the third and fourth and fourth and fifth lumbar vertebra ; above the third they are much diminished, and reach their minimum in the middle and upper part of the back. They increase again in the neck, the capability of motion backwards from the upright position being in this region greater than that of the motion forwards, whereas in the lumbar region the reverse is the case. In Lateral Movement, the sides of the intervertebral discs are compressed, the extent of motion being limited by the resistance offered by the surrounding liga- ments, and by the approximation of the transverse processes. This movement may take place in any part of the spine, but is most free in the neck and loins. Circumduction is very limited, and is produced merely by a succession of the preceding movements. Rotation is produced by the twisting of the intervertebral substances ; this, although only slight between any two vertebrae, produces a great extent of move- ment, when it takes place in the whole length of the spine, the front of the