26o THE SKELETON -Eight femiir. surface. rURATOR EXTERNUS WW Posterior especially at its upper part, where it is crossed by the femoral artery. It termi- nates, below, at the summit of the internal condyle, in a small tubercle, the Adductor tubeixle, which affords attachment to the tendon of the Adductor magnus. To the inner lip of the linea aspera and its inner prolongation above and below is attached the Vastus internus : and to the outer lip and its outer pro- longation above is attached the Vastus externus. The Adductor magnus is at- tached to the linea aspera, to its outer prolongation above, and its inner pro- longation below. Between the Vastus externus and the Adductor magnus are attached two muscles—viz. the Gluteus maximus above, and the short head of the Biceps beloAv. Between the Adductor magnus and the Vastus internus four muscles are attached: the Iliacus and Pectineus above (the latter to the middle of the upper divisions); below these, the Adductor brevis and Adductor longus. The linea aspera is perforated a little below its centre by the nutrient canal, which is directed obliquely upwards. The two lateral borders of the femur are only slightly marked, the outer one extending from the anterior inferior angle of the great trochanter to the anterior extremity of the external condyle ; the inner one from the spiral line, at a point opposite the trochanter minor, to the an- terior extremity of the internal condyle. The internal border marks the limit of attachment of the Crureus muscle inter- nally. The anterior surface includes that portion of the shaft which is situated between the two lateral borders. It is smooth, convex, broader above and below than in the centre, slightly twisted, so that its upper part is directed forwards and a little outwards, its lower part for- wards and a little inwards. To the upper three-fourths of this surface the Crureus is attached; the lower fourth is sepa- rated from the muscle by the intervention of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint and a bursa, and affords attachment to the Sub- ■ Groove for tendon crureus to a Small extent. The 0/ Popiiteus external surface includes the portion of bone between the external border and the outer lip of the linea aspera; it is