351 TIBIO FIBULAR JOINTS is diminished, so that as the patient stands the two internal condyles of the femora are in contact, but the two internal malleoli of the tibiae are more or less widely separated from each other. When, however, the knees are flexed to a right angle, the two legs are practically parallel with each other. At the commencement of the disease there is a 3aelding of the internal lateral ligament and other fibrous structures on the inner side of the joint; as a result of this there is a constant undue pressm-e of the outer tuberosity of the tibia against the outer condyle of the femur. This extra pressure causes arrest of growth and, possibly, wasting of the outer condyle, and a consequent tendency for the tibia to become separated from the internal condyle. To prevent this the internal condyle becomes depressed; probably, as was first pointed out by Mikulicz, by an increased growth of the lower end of the diaphysis on its inner side, so that the line of the epiphysis becomes oblique instead of transverse to the axis of the bone, with a direction downwards and inwards. Excision of the knee-joint is most frequently required for tubercular disease of this articulation, but is also practised in cases of disorganisation of the knee after rheumatic fever, p_yaemia, Slc, in osteo-arthritis, and in ankylosis. It is also occasionally called for in cases of injury, gunshot or otherwise. The operation is best performed either by a horseshoe incision, starting from one condyle, descending as low as the tubercle of the tibia, where it crosses the leg, and is then carried upward to the other condyle ; or by a transverse incision across the patella. In this latter incision the patella is either removed or sawn across, and the halves subsequently sutured together. The bones having been cleared, and in those cases where the operation is performed for tubercular disease, all pulpy tissue having been carefully removed, the section of the femur is first made. This vshouid never include, in children, more than, at the most, two-thirds of the articular surface, otherwise the epiphysis will be included, with disastrous results as far as regards the growth of the limb. Afterwards a thin slice should be removed from the upper end of the tibia, not more than half an inch. If any diseased tissue still appears to be left in the bones, it should be removed with the gouge, rather than that a further section of the bones should be made. III. Articulations between the Tibia and Fibula The articulations between the tibia and fibula are effected by ligaments which connect both extremities, as well as the shafts of the bones. They may, conse- quently, be subdivided into three sets:—i. The Superior Tibio-fibular articula- tion. 2. The Middle Tibio-fibular ligament or interosseous membrane. 3. The Inferior Tibio-fibular articulation. I. SuPEEioE Tibio-fibular Articulation This articulation is an arthrodial joint. The contiguous surfaces of the bones present two flat, oval facets covered with cartilage, and connected together by the following ligaments :— Anterior Superior Tibio-fibular. Posterior Superior Tibio-fibular. The Anterior Superior Ligament (fig. 259) consists of two or three broad and flat bands, which pass obliquely upwards and inwards from the front of the head of the fibula to the front of the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The Posterior Superior Ligament (fig. 258) is a single thick and broad band, which passes upwards and inwards from the back part of the head of the fibula to the back part of the outer tuberosity of the tibia. It is covered by the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. A Synovial Membrane lines this articulation, which at its upper and back part is occasionally continuous with that of the knee-joint. 2. Middle Tibio-fibular Ligament or Interosseous Membrane An interosseous membrane extends between the contiguous margins of the tibia and fibula, and separates the muscles on the front from those on the back of the leg. It consists of a thin, aponeurotic lamina composed of oblique fibres, which pass downwards and outwards between the interosseous ridges on the two bones. It is broader above than below. Above its upper border is a large, oval aperture for the passage of the anterior tibial vessels forwards to the anterior aspect