MUSCLES AND FASCIA 446 lower half of the sternal portion and the deeper part of the muscle from the costal cartilages. These deep fibres, and particularly those from the lower costal carti- lages, ascend the higher, turning backwards successively behind the superficial and upper ones, so that the tendon appears to be twisted. The posterior lamina reaches higher on the humerus than the anterior one, and from it an expansion is given off which covers the bicipital groove and blends with the capsule of the shoulder-joint. Another expansion passes downwards to the fascia of the arm. Relations.—By its anterior surface, w^ith the integument, the superficial fascia, the Platysma, the mammary gland, and the deep fascia. By its posterior surface : its thoracic portion, with the sternum, the ribs and costal cartilages, the costo- coracoid membrane, the Subclavius, Pectoralis minor, Serratus magnus, and the Intercostals ; its axillary portion forms the anterior wall of the axillary space, and covers the axillary vessels and nerves, the Biceps and Coraco-brachialis muscles. Its upper border lies parallel with the Deltoid, from which it is separated by a slight interspace in which lie the cephalic vein and descending branch of the acromial thoracic artery. Its loiuer border forms the anterior margin of the axilla, being at first separated from the Latissimus dorsi by a considerable interval; but both muscles gradually converge toAvards the outer part of the space. Dissection.—Detach the Pectoralis major by dividing the muscle along its attachment to the clavicle, and by making a vertical incision through its substance a little external to its line of attachment to the sternum and costal cartilages. The muscle should then be reflected outwards, and its tendon carefully examined. The Pectoralis minor is now exposed, and immediately above it, in the interval between its upper border and the clavicle, a strong fascia, the costo-coracoid memhnnie. The costo-coracoid membrane is a strong fascia placed between the clavicle and the upper border of the Pectoralis minor muscle, which protects the axillary vessels and nerves. Above, it is attached to the anterior margin of the Subclavian groove on the under surface of the clavicle, and is connected with a layer of cervical fascia which overlies the Omo-hyoid muscle, and forms the posterior layer of the sheath of the Subclavius muscle. Internally, it is attached to the first rib internal to the origin of the Subclavius muscle. Externally, it is very thick and dense, and is attached to the coracoid process. The portion extending from its attachment to the first rib to the coracoid process is often whiter and denser than the rest; this is sometimes called the costo-coracoid ligament. Below, it is thin, and at the upper border of the Pectoralis minor it splits into two layers to invest the muscle ; from the lower border of the Pectoralis minor it is continued down- wards to join the axillary fascia, and outwards to join the fascia over the short head of the Biceps. The costo-coracoid membrane is pierced by the cephalic vein, the acromial thoracic artery and vein, superior thoracic artery, and anterior thoracic nerves. The Pectoralis minor (fig. 303) is a thin, flat, triangular muscle, situated at the upper part of the thorax, beneath the Pectoralis major. It arises by thi^ee tendinous digitations, from the upper margin and outer surface of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, near their cartilages, and from the aponeurosis covering the Intercostal muscles ; the fibres jjass upwards and outwards, and converge to form a flat tendon, which is inserted into the inner border and upper surface of the coracoid process of the scapula. Relations.—By its anterior surface, \N\i\i the Pectoralis major, and the superior thoracic vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface, with the ribs, Intercostal muscles, Serratus magnus, the axillary space, and the axillary vessels and nerves. Its upper border is separated from the clavicle by a triangular interval, broad internally, narrow externally, bounded in front by the costo-coracoid membrane, and internally by the ribs. In this space are the first part of the axillary vessels and nerves. The costo-coracoid membrane should now be removed, when the Subclavius muscle will be seen. The Subclavius is a long, thin, spindle-shaped muscle, placed in the interval