MUSCLES AND FASCIA 4x8 the head to one side, and rotates it so that the face is turned to the opposite side. The Superior ohhque draws the head backwards ; and, from the obhquity in the direction of its fibres, will slightly rotate the cranium, turning the face to the opposite side. The Obliquus capitis inferior rotates the atlas, and with it the cranium, round the odontoid process, turning the face to the same side. The Semispinals, when the muscles of the two sides act together, help to extend the spine ; when the muscles of one side only act, they rotate the dorsal and cervical parts of the spine, turning the body to the opposite side. The Supraspinales and Interspinales by approximating the spinous processes help to extend the spine. The Intertransversales approximate the transverse processes, and help to bend the spine to one side. The Eotatores spinae assist the Multifidus spinae to rotate the spine, so that the front of the trunk is turned to the side opposite to that from which the muscle acts. Surface Forms.—The surface forms produced by the muscles of the back are numerous and difficult to analyse unless they are considered in systematic order. The most super- ficial layer, consisting of large strata of muscular substance, influences to a certain extent the surface form, and at the same time reveals the forms of the layers beneath. The Traijezius at the upper part of the back, and in the neck, covers over and softens down the outline of the underlying muscles. Its anterior border forms the posterior boundary of the posterior triangle of the neck. It forms a slight undulating ridge which passes downwards and forwards from the occiput to the junction of the middle and outer third of the clavicle. The tendinous ellipse formed by a part of the origin of the two muscles at the back of the neck is always to be seen as an oval depression, more marked when the muscle is in action. A slight dimple on the skin opposite the interval between the spinous processes of the third and fourth dorsal vertebrae marks the triangular aponeurosis by which the inferior fibres are inserted into the root of the spine of the scapula. From this point the inferior border of the muscle may be traced as an undulating ridge to the spinous process of the twelfth dorsal vertebra. In like manner, the Latissimus dorsi softens down and modulates the underlying structures at the lower part of the back and lower part of the side of the chest. In this way it modulates the outline of the Erector spinffi ; of the Serratus posticus inferior, which is sometimes to be discerned through it, and is sometimes entirely obscured by it; of part of the Serratus magnus and Superior oblique, which it covers, and of the convex oblique ridges formed by the ribs with the intervening intercostal spaces. The anterior border of the muscle is the only part which gives a distinct surface form. This border may be traced, when the muscle is in action, as a rounded edge, starting from the crest of the ilium, and passing obliquely forwards and upwards to the posterior border of the axilla, where it combines with the Teres major in forming a thick roimded fold, the posterior boundary of the axillary space. The muscles in the second layer influence to a very considerable extent the surface form of the back of the neck and upper part of the trunk. The Levator anguli scajjulce reveals itself as a prominent divergent line, running downwards and outwards, from the transverse processes of the upper cervical vertebrae to the angle of the scapula, covered over and toned down by the overlying Trapezius. The Bhomboidei produce, when in action, a vertical eminence between the internal border of the scapula and the spinal furrow, varying in intensity according to the condition of contraction or relaxation of the Trapezius muscle, by which they are for the most part covered. The lowermost part of the Ehomboideus major is uncovered by the Trapezius and forms on the surface an oblique ridge running upwards and inwards from the inferior angle of the scapula. Of the muscles of the third layer of the back, the Serratus posticus superior does not in any way influence surface form. The Serrattts jwsticus inferior, when in strong action, may occasionally be revealed as an elevation beneath the Latissimus dorsi. Tlie Splenii by their divergence serve to broaden out the upper part of the back of the neck and produce a local fulness in this situation, but do not otherwise influence surface form. Beneath all these muscles those of the fourth layer—the Erector spincB and its continuations—influence the surface form in a decided manner. In the loins, the Erector spinae, bound down by the lumbar fascia, forms a rounded vertical eminence, which determines the depth of the spinal furrow, and which below tapers to a point on the posterior surface of the sacrum and becomes lost there. In the back it forms a flattened plane which gradually becomes lost. In the neck the only part of this group of muscles which influences surface form is the Trachelo- mastoid, which produces a short convergent line across the upper part of the posterior triangle of the neck, appearing from under cover of the posterior border of the Sterno- mastoid and being lost below beneath the Trapezius.