AETICULATIOXS Aeticulatioxs of the Cartilages of the Ribs with each other (Ixteechondeal) (fig. 238) The contiguous borders of the sixth, seventh, and eighth, and sometimes the ninth and tenth, costal cartilages articulate with each other by small, smooth, oblong-shaped facets. Each articulation is enclosed in a thin capsnlar ligament lined by synovial membrane, and strengthened externally and internally by liga- mentous fibres (interchondral ligaments), which pass from one cartilage to the other. Sometimes the fifth costal cartilage, more rarely that of the ninth, articu- lates, by its lower border, with the adjoining cartilage by a small oval facet; more frequently they are connected together by a few ligamentous fibres. Occasionally, the articular surfaces above mentioned are wanting. Aeticulatioxs of the Ribs with theie Caetilages (Costo-choxdeal) (fig. 238) The outer extremity of each costal cartilage is received into a depression in the sternal end of the ribs, and the two are held together by the periosteum. YIII. LiGAMEXTS OF THE StEEXUM The first piece of the sternum is united to the second either by an amphi- arthrodial joint—a single piece of true fibro-cartilage uniting the segments—or by a diarthrodial joint, in which each bone is clothed with a distinct lamina of cartilage, adherent on one side, free and lined with synovial membrane on the other. In the latter case, the cartilage covering the gladiolus is continued without interruption on to the cartilages of the second ribs. Mr. Rivington has found the diarthrodial form of joint in about one-third of the specimens examined by him, Mr. Maisonneuve more frequently. It appears to be rare in childhood, and is formed, in Mr. Rivington's opinion, from the amphiarthrodial form, by absorption. The diarthrodial joint seems to have no tendency to ossify at any age, while the amphiarthrodial is more liable to do so, and has been found ossified as early as thirty-four years of age. The two segments are further connected by an Anterior Inter sternal Ligament. Posterior Intersternal Ligament. The Anterior Intersternal Ligament consists of a layer of fibres, having a longitudinal direction ; it blends with the fibres of the anterior chondro-sternal ligaments on both sides, and with the tendinous fibres of origin of the Pectoralis major. This ligament is rough, irregular, and much thicker below than above. The Posterior Intersternal Ligament is disposed in a somewhat similar manner on the posterior surface of the articulation. IX. Aeticulatiox of the Pelvis with the Spixe The ligaments connecting the last lumbar vertebra with the sacrum are similar to those which connect the segments of the spine with each other—viz.: i. The continuation downwards of the anterior and posterior common ligaments. 2. The intervertebral substance connecting the flattened oval surfaces of the two bones and forming an amphiarthrodial joint. 3. Ligamenta subflava, connecting the arch of the last lumbar vertebra with the posterior border of the sacral canal. 4. Capsular ligaments connecting the articulating processes and forming a double arthrodia. 5. Inter- and supra-spinous ligaments. The two proper ligaments connecting the pelvis with the spine are the lumbo- sacral and ilio-lumbar. The Lumbo-sacral Ligament (fig. 239) is a short, thick, triangular fasciculus, which is connected above to the lower and front part of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra, passes obliquely outwards, and is attached below to