877 THE TEETH four in each jaw, two being placed immediately behind each of the canine teeth. They are smaller and shorter than the canine. The croiv7i is compressed from without inwards, and surmounted by two pyra- midal eminences, or cusps, separated by a groove; hence their name, bicuspidate. The outer of these cusps is larger and more prominent than the inner. The neck is oval. The root is generally single, compressed, and presents a deep groove on each side, which indicates a tendency in the root to become double. The apex is generally bifid. The tqjper bicusjjids are larger, and present a greater tendency to the division of their roots than the lower ; this is especially marked in the second upper bicuspid. The molar teeth {muUicuspidati, true or large molars) are the largest of the permanent set and are adapted from the great breadth of their crowns for grinding Fig. 510.—The permanent teeth. External view. UPPER JAW Molars Bicuspids Canine Incisors Canine and pounding the food. They are twelve in number: six in each jaw, three being placed behind each of the posterior bicuspids. The CTOivn is nearly cubical in form, rounded on each of its lateral surfaces, flattened in front and behind ; the upper surface being surmounted by four or five tubercles, or cusps (four in the upper, five in the lower molars), separated from each other by a crucial depression; hence their name, multicusindati. The nech is distinct, large, and rounded. The root is subdivided into from two to five fangs, each of which presents an aperture at its summit. ^h.Q first molar tooth is the largest and broadest of all ; its crown has usually five cusps, three outer and two inner. In the upper jaw the root consists of three fangs, widely separated from one another, two being external, the other internal. The latter is-the largest and longest, slightly grooved, and sometimes bifid. In the lower jaw the root consists of two fangs, one being placed in front, the other behind: they are both compressed from before backwards, and grooved on their contiguous faces, indicating a tendency to division.