249 OS INNOMINATUM different subjects ; its external surface gives attachment to the Gemellus superior, its internal surface to the Coccygeus and Levator ani; whilst to the pointed extremity is connected the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. Above the spine is a notch of large size, the great sacro-sciatic, converted into a foramen by the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament; it transmits the Pyriformis muscle, the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve passing out of the pelvis above the muscle ; the sciatic vessels, the greater and lesser sciatic nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, and muscular branches from the sacral plexus below it. Below the spine is a smaller notch, the lesser sacro-sciatic; it is smooth, coated in the recent state with cartilage, the surface of which presents numerous markings corresponding to the subdivisions of the tendon of the Obturator internus, which winds over it. It is converted into a foramen by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and transmits the tendon of the Obturator internus, the nerve which supplies that muscle, and the internal pudic vessels and nerve. The tuberosity presents for examination three surfaces : external, internal, and inferior. The external surface is quadrilateral in shape and rough for the attach- ment of muscles. It is bounded above by the groove for the tendon of the Obturator externus ; in front it is limited by the posterior margin of the obturator foramen, and below it is continuous with the ramus of the bone ; behind, it is bounded by a prominent margin which separates it from the inferior surface. In front of this margin the surface gives attachment to the Quadratus f em oris, and anterior to this to some of the fibres of origin of the Obturator externus. The lower part of the surface gives origin to part of the Adductor magnus. The internal surface forms part of the bony wall of the true pelvis. In front, it is limited by the posterior margin of the obturator foramen. Behind, it is bounded by a sharp ridge, for the attachment of a falciform prolongation of the great sacro-sciatic ligament; it presents a groove on the inner side of this for the lodgment of the internal pudic vessels and nerve ; and, more anteriorly, has attached the Transversus perinasi and Erector penis muscles. The inferior surface is divided into two portions: an anterior, rough, somewhat triangular part and a posterior, smooth, quadrilateral portion. The anterior surface is subdivided by a prominent vertical ridge, passing from base to apex, into two parts ; the outer one gives attachment to the Adductor magnus, the inner to the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The posterior portion is subdivided into two facets by an oblique ridge, which runs forwards and outwards; from the upper and outer facet arises the Semi-membranosus ; from the lower and inner, the Biceps and Semi-tendinosus. The ramus, or ascending ramus, is the thin, flattened part of the ischium, which ascends from the tuberosity upwards and inwards, and joins the ramus of the os pubis —their point of junction being indicated in the adult by a rough line. The outer surface of the ramus is rough, for the attachment of the Obturator externus muscle, and also some fibres of the Adductor magnus ; its inner surface forms part of the anterior wall of the pelvis. Its inner border is thick, rough, slightly everted, forms part of the outlet of the pelvis, and presents two ridges and an intervening space. The ridges are continuous with similar ones on the descending ramus of the os pubis : to the outer one is attached the deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia, and to the inner the anterior layer of the triangular ligament of the perin^eum. If these two ridges are traced downwards, they will be found to join with each other just behind the point of origin of the Transversus perin^i muscle ; here the two layers of fascia are continuous behind the posterior border of the muscle. To the inter- vening space, just in front of the point of junction of the ridges, is attached the Transversus perinsei muscle, and in front of this a portion of the crus penis vel clitoridis and the Erector penis vel clitoridis muscle. Its outer border is thin and sharp, and forms part of the inner margin of the obturator foramen. The Os Pubis forms the anterior part of the os innominatum, and, with the bone of the opposite side, forms the front boundary of the true pelvic ca^'ity. It is divisible into a body, a horizontal ramus, and a descending ramus. The body is somewhat quadrilateral in shape, and presents for examination two