554 ARTEKIES arising from the internal carotid rather than from the hasilar. It is frequently larger on one side than on the other side. From the posterior half of this vessel are given off a number of small branches, iliQ loostcro-median ganglionic branches, which, with similar vessels from the posterior cerebral, pierce the posterior perforated space and supply the internal surfaces of the optic thalami and the walls of the third ventricle. The anterior choroid is a small but constant branch, which arises from the back part of the internal carotid, near the posterior communicating artery. Passing backwards and outwards, it enters the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, beneath the edge of the middle lobe of the brain. It is distributed to the hippocampus major, corpus fimbriatum, velum interpositum, and choroid plexus. Fig. 357.—Diagram of the arterial circulation at the base of the brain. (After Charcot.) I. Antero-median group of ganglionic branches. 11. Pobteio-mediau group, iii. Riglit and left antero-lateral group. IV. Bight and left postero-lateral group. The dotted line shows the limit of tlie ganglionic circle. THE BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE BRAIN Recent investigations have tended to show that the mode of distribution of the vessels of the brain has an important bearing upon a considerable number of the anatomical lesions of which this part of the nervous system may be the seat ; it therefore becomes important to consider a little more in detail the way in which the cerebral vessels are distributed. The cerebral arteries are derived from the internal carotid and the vertebral, which at the base of the brain form a remarkable anastomosis known as the circle of^ Willis, It is formed in front by the anterior cerebral arteries, branches of the internal carotid, which are connected together by the anterior communicating ; behind by the two posterior cerebrals, branches of the basilar which are connected on each side with the internal carotid by the posterior communicating (fig. 354,