470 MUSCLES AND FASCIA superficial fibres, which are inserted into the skin of the palm and finger, those to the palm joining the skin at the furrow corresponding to the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, and those to the fingers passing into the skin at the transverse fold at the base of the fingers. The deeper part of each shp subdivides into two processes, which are inserted into the lateral margins of the anterior (glenoid) ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. From the sides of these processes, offsets are sent backwards, to be attached to the borders of the lateral surfaces of the meta- carpal bones at their distal extremities. By this arrangement short channels are formed on the front of the lower ends of the metacarpal bones, through which the flexor tendons pass. Dr. W. W. Keen describes a fifth slip as frequently found passing to the thumb. The intervals left in the fascia, between the four fibrous slips, transmit the digital vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the Lumbricales. At the points of division of the palmar fascia into the slips above mentioned, numerous strong, transverse fibres bind the separate processes together. The palmar fascia is intimately adherent to the integument by dense fibro-areolar tissue forming the superficial palmar fascia, and gives origin by its inner margin to the Palmaris brevis ; it covers the superficial palmar arch, the tendons of the flexor muscles, and the branches of the median and ulnar nerves ; and on each side it gives off a vertical septum, w^hich is continuous with the interosseous aponeurosis, and separates the lateral from the middle palmar group of muscles. The lateral portions of the palmar fascia are thin, fibrous layers, which cover, on the radial side, the muscles of the ball of the thumb, and, on the ulnar side, the muscles of the little finger; they are continuous with the dorsal fascia, and in the palm with the central portion of the palmar fascia. The Superficial Transverse Ligament of the Fingers is a thin, fibrous band, which stretches across the roots of the four fingers, and is closely attached to the skin of the clefts, and internally to the fifth metacarpal bone, forming a sort of rudimentary web. Beneath it the digital vessels and nerves pass onwards to their destination. Surgical Anatomy.—The palmar fascia is liable to undergo contraction, producing a very inconvenient deformity, known as ' Dupuytren's contraction.' The ring and little fingers are most frequently implicated, but the middle, the index, and the thumb may be involved. The proximal phalanx is drawn down and cannot be straightened, and the two distal phalanges become similarly flexed as the disease advances. Muscles of the Hand The Muscles of the Hand are subdivided into three groups :—i. Those of the thumb, which occupy the radial side. 2. Those of the little finger, which occupy the ulnar side. 3. Those in the middle of the palm and between the interosseous spaces. Radial Eegion (figs. 315, 316) Muscles of tJie Thumb Abductor pollicis. Flexor brevis pollicis. Opponens (Flexor ossis metacarpi) pollicis. Adductor obliquus pollicis. Adductor transversus pollicis. The Abductor pollicis is a thin, flat muscle, placed immediately beneath the integument. It arises from the ridge of the os trapezium and annular ligament ; and, passing outwards and downwards, is inserted by a thin, flat tendon into the radial side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, sending a slip to join the tendon of the Extensor longus pollicis. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the palmar fascia. By its deep surface, with the Opponens pollicis, from which it is separated by a thin apo- neurosis. Its inner border is separated from the Flexor brevis pollicis by a narrow cellular interval. The Opponens pollicis is a small, triangular muscle, placed beneath the