727 STRUCTURE OF THE CEREBRUM matter of the corpora quadrigemina—that found on the periphery of this body— belongs to this group; the remainder, that contained in its centre around the Sylvian aqueduct, belongs properly to the third group, which will be discussed immediately. The corpus striatum presents two distinct and separate masses, the nucleus caudatus, which is the intraventricular portion of the corpus striatum, and Lhe nucleus lenticularis, which is the extraventricular portion. The two are separated from each other by a distinct lamina of white matter, the internal capsule, which also separates the nucleus lenticularis from the outer part of the optic thalamus. The grey matter of the corpus striatum is permeated by tracts of medullated nerve- fibres, some of which probably originate in it, though the actual connection of the nerve-fibres with the cells has not been demonstrated. The nerve-cells are multi- polar, both large and small, the larger being principally found in the lenticular nucleus. The optic thalamus is chiefly formed of grey matter, covered over by a super- ficial layer of white, which on the outer side separates it from the internal capsule. The grey matter is arranged in two masses, the outer and inner nuclei, partially divided by a vertical white septum. It is traversed by numerous nerve-fibres, which for the most part have no definite direction; some, however, converge and form a bundle which passes downwards to form the anterior root of the fornix. It contains comparatively large nerve-cells, both multipolar and fusiform. The inner nucleus is connected across the middle line with the inner nucleus of the opposite side by the middle commissure of the third ventricle, which, however, belongs to the third group of grey matter. The corpora quadrigemina consist of two distinct and separate collections of grey matter, one at or near the surface, which belongs to the basal ganglia, and one in the centre around the aqueduct of Sylvius. The former will only be considered at present. The peripheral grey matter of the corpora quadrigemina ^differs somewhat in the posterior and anterior lobes. The posterior lobes or testes are composed almost entirely of grey matter, covered over by a thin stratum of white matter, and separated from the central grey matter by tracts of transverse white fibres derived from, and forming part of, the fillet. The anterior lobes or nates are covered superficially by a thin stratum of white matter; beneath this is a layer of grey matter, termed the stratum cinereum, and consisting, as well as the grey matter of the posterior lobes, of small multipolar cells embedded in a fine network of nerves. Beneath this again is a characteristic mass of grey matter, termed the stratum opticum, which is made up of fine nerve-fibres, coursing in a longitudinal direction, and containing between them small masses of grey substance, consisting of small multipolar nerve-cells embedded in grey matter. Lastly, between this body and the central grey matter around the Sylvian aqueduct is a thin lamina of white matter, derived from the fillet. The geniculate bodies are continuous with the grey substance of the optic thalamus, and the external one [corpus geniculatum externum) is peculiar on account of its dark colour, due to its cells containing pigment. It presents a laminated arrangement, and consists of alternate thick layers of grey matter and thin layers of white matter. Its cells are multipolar. The internal body {corpus geniculatum internum) is of lighter colour, does not present a laminated arrangement, and its cells are smaller in size and fusiform in shape. The locus niger, or grey matter of the crus cerebri, like the external geniculate body, is peculiar from the large amount of dark pigment-granules which are contained in its ganglion-cells, and which give to it its dark colour, from which it has derived its name. Its cells are small and multipolar. 3. The central grey matter of the cerebrum lines the upper part of the cerebro-spinal tube, which is the remains of the cavity in the original vesicles from which the brain was formed, and is continuous with the grey matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle, and through it with the grey matter of the cord. This central grey matter is found lining the aqueduct of Sylvius, by which the third communi-