THE URINARY ORGANS IOI2 Fig. 604.—The bladder and urethra laid open. Seen from above. Coivper's cjland never presents any rugae, even in the collapsed condition of the organ, owing to its intimate adhesion to the subjacent tissue. It is bounded at each posterior angle by the orifices of the ureters, which are placed nearly two inches from each other, and about an inch and a half behind the orifice of the urethra. The trigone corresponds with the interval at the base of the bladder, bounded by the prostate in front, and the vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia on the sides. Projecting from the lower and anterior part of the bladder into the orifice of the urethra, is a slight elevation of mucous membrane, called the uvula vesiccB. It is formed by a thickening of the submucous tissue. The arteries supplying the bladder are the superior, middle, and inferior vesical in the male, with additional branches from the uterine and vaginal in the female. They are all derived from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac. The obturator and sciatic arteries also supply small visceral branches to the bladder. The veins form a complicated plexus round the neck, sides, and base of the bladder, and terminate in the internal iliac vein. The lymphatics accompany the blood-vessels, passing through the glands surrounding them. The nerves are derived from the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic and from the third and the fourth sacral nerves ; the former supplying the upper part of the organ, the latter its base and neck. According to F. Darwin the sympathetic fibres have ganglia connected with them, which send branches to the vessels and muscular coat. Surface Form.—The surface form of the bladder varies with its degree of disten- sion and under other circumstances. In the young child it is represented by a conical figure, the apex of which, even when the viscus is empty, is situated in the hypogastric region, about an inch above the level of the symphysis pubis. In the adult, when the bladder is empt}^ its apex does not reach above the level of the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and the whole organ is situated in the pelvis ; the neck, in the male, correspond- Mentus ing to a line drawn horizontally backwards, through the symphysis a little below its middle. As the bladder becomes distended it gradually rises out of the pelvis into the abdomen and forms a swelling in the hypogastric region, which is perceptible to the hand, as well as to percussion. In extreme distension it reaches into the umbilical region. Under these circumstances it is closely applied to the abdominal wall, without the intervention of peritoneum, so that it can be tapped by an opening in the middle line just above the pubes, without any fear of wounding the serous membrane. "When the rectum is distended, the prostatic portion of the urethra is elongated and the bladder lifted out of the pelvis and the peritoneum pushed upwards. Advantage is taken of this in performing the operation of suprapubic cystotomy. The rectum is distended by an indiarubber bag, which is introduced into this cavity empty, and then filled with ten or twelve ounces of water. If now the bladder is injected with about half a pint of some antiseptic fluid, it will appear above the pubes plainly perceptible to the sight and touch. The peritoneum Orifices of ducts'of Cowper''s glands