ORGANS OF DIGESTION 926 The sigmoid flexure is the narrowest part of the colon ; it is situated in the left iliac fossa, commencing from the termination of the descending colon, at the margin of the crest of the ilium, and ending in the rectum, opposite the left sacro- iliac symphysis. It curves in the first place inwards, across the Psoas muscle ; it then descends vertically along the left wall of the pelvis, and finally again passes inwards to the left sacro-iliac joint, where it becomes the rectum. It is retained in its place by a loose fold of peritoneum, the sigmoid meso-colon. It is in relation, in front, with the small intestines and abdominal parietes.* The rectum is the terminal part of the large intestine, and extends from the sigmoid flexure to the anus; it varies in length from six to eight inches, and has received its name from being less flexuous than any other part of the intestinal canal. It commences opposite the left sacro-iliac symphysis, passes obliquely downwards from left to right to the middle of the sacrum, forming a gentle curve to the right side ; it then descends in front of the lower part of the sacrum and coccyx, presenting a curve with its concavity forwards, and, near the extremity of the latter bone, inclines backwards to terminate at the anus. The rectum is, therefore, not straight, the upper part being directed obliquely from the left side to the median line, the middle portion being curved in the direction of the hollow of the sacrum and coccyx, and the lower portion presenting a short curve in the opposite direction. The rectum is cylindrical, not sacculated like the rest of the large intestine ; it is narrow^er at its upper part than the sigmoid flexure, gradually increases in size as it descends, and immediately above the anus presents a considerable dilatation, capable of acquiring an enormous size. The rectum is divided into three portions—-upper, middle, and lower. The ui)ioer ijortion, which includes about half the length of the tube, extends obliquely from the left sacro-iliac symphysis to the middle of the third piece of the sacrum. It is almost completely surrounded by peritoneum, and connected to the sacrum behind by a duplicature of that membrane, the meso-rectum. It is in relation, behind, with the Pyriformis muscle, the sacral plexus of nerves, and the branches of the internal iliac artery of the left side, which separate it from the sacrum and sacro-iliac symphysis ; in front, it is separated, in the male, from the posterior surface of the bladder ; in the female, from the posterior surface of the uterus and its appendages, by some convolutions of the small intestine. The middle portion of tJie rectum is about three inches in length, and extends as far as the tip of the coccyx. It is closely connected to the concavity of the sacrum, and covered by peritoneum only on the upper part of its anterior surface. It is in relation, in front, in the male, with the triangular portion of the base of the bladder, the vesicul^ seminales, and vasa deferentia ; more anteriorly, with the under surface of the prostate. In the female, with the posterior wall of the vagina, to which it is adherent. The loioe7' portion is about an inch or an inch and a half in length ; it curves backwards at the fore part of the prostate gland, and terminates at the anus. This portion of the intestine receives no peritoneal covering. It is invested by the Internal sphincter, supported by the Levatores ani muscles, and surrounded at its termination by the External sphincter. In the male, it is separated from the membranous portion and bulb of the urethra by a triangular space; and in the female, a similar space intervenes between it and the vagina. The base of this space forms the perinasum. The rectum in the female is more capacious and less curved than in the male. Structure.—The large intestine has four coats—serous, muscular, areolar, and mucous. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and invests the different portions of the large intestine to a variable extent. The caecum is completely covered by * Treves describes the sigmoid flexure somewhat differently. He includes in his description of this portion of the bowel the upper part of the rectum, and makes it termi- nate opposite the third portion of the sacrum. Instead of forming a sigmoid curve, he describes it as a large loop or bend, more like the Greek letter O (omega).