ANTERIOR HUMERAL REGION 453 Nerves.—The Supra- and Infraspinatus muscles are supplied by the supra- scapular nerve ; the Teres minor, by the circumflex ; and the Teres major, by the lower subscapular. Actions.—The Supraspinatus assists the Deltoid in raising the arm from the side, and fixes the head of the humerus in its socket. The Infraspinatus and Teres minor rotate the head of the humerus outwards: when the arm is raised, they assist in retaining it in that position and carrying it backwards. One of the most important uses of these three muscles is the great protection they afford to the shoulder-joint, the Supraspinatus supporting it above, and preventing displacement of the head of the humerus upwards, whilst the Infraspinatus and Teres minor protect it behind, and prevent dislocation backwards. The Teres major assists the Latissimus dorsi in drawing the humerus downwards and backwards, when previously raised, and rotating it inwards ; when the arm is fixed, it may assist the Pectoral and Latissimus dorsi muscles in drawing the trunk forwards. Anterior Humeral Region (fig. 303) Coraco-brachialis. Biceps. Brachialis anticus. Dissection.—The arm being placed on the table, with the front surface uppermost, make a vertical incision through the integument along the middle line, from the outer extremity of the anterior fold of the axilla, to about two inches below the elbow-joint, where it should be joined by a transverse incision, extending from the inner to the outer side of the forearm; the two flaps being reflected on either side, the fascia should be examined (fig. 301). The deep fascia of the arm is continuous with that covering the shoulder and front of the great Pectoral muscle, by means of which it is attached, above, to the clavicle, acromion, and spine of the scapula ; it forms a thin, loose, membranous sheath investing the muscles of the arm, sending down septa between them, and composed of fibres disposed in a circular or spiral direction, and connected together by vertical and oblique fibres. It differs in thickness at difierent parts, being thin over the Biceps, but thicker where it covers the Triceps, and over the condyles of the humerus : it is strengthened by fibrous aponeuroses, derived from the Pectoralis major and Latissimus dorsi on the inner side, and from the Deltoid externally. On either side it gives off a strong intermuscular septum, which is attached to the condyloid ridge and condyle of the humerus. These septa serve to separate the muscles of the anterior from those of the posterior brachial region. The external intermuscular septum extends from the lower part of the anterior bicipital ridge, along the external condyloid ridge, to the outer condyle ; it is blended with the tendon of the Deltoid, gives attachment to the Triceps behind, to the Brachialis anticus, Supinator longus, and Extensor carpi radiahs longior, in front; and is perforated by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. The internal intermuscular septum, thicker than the preceding, extends from the lower part of the posterior lip of the bicipital groove below the Teres major, along the internal condyloid ridge to the inner condyle ; it is blended with the tendon of the Coraco-brachialis, and affords attachment to the Triceps behind, and the Brachialis anticus in front. It is perforated by the ulnar nerve and the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries. At the elbow, the deep fascia is attached to all the prominent points round the joint, viz. the condyles of the humerus and the olecranon process of the ulna, and is continuous with the deep fascia of the forearm. Just below the middle of the arm, on its inner side, in front of the internal intermuscular septum, is an oval opening in the deep fascia, which transmits the basilic vein and some lymphatic vessels. On the removal of this fascia, the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the anterior humeral region are exposed. The Coraco-brachialis, the smallest of the three muscles in this region, is situated at the upper and inner part of the arm. It arises by fleshy fibres from the apex of the coracoid ^orocess, in common with the short head of the Biceps, and from the intermuscular septum between the two muscles; the fibres pass