GENEEAL ANATOMY 94 on the posterior margin of the first visceral cleft by an outgrowth of the tissues in this situation. Development of the Nose.—The olfactory fossag, like the primary auditory vesicles, are formed in the first instance by a thickening and involution of the epiblast, which takes place at a point below and in front of the ocular vesicle (fig. 92, 2, 3). The thickening appears at a very early period, about the fourth week, j The borders of the involuted portion very soon become prominent, in consequence i of the development of the mid-frontal and lateral naso-frontal plates above spoken j of (page 87), which are formed on either side of the rudimentary fossae. As these j processes increase, the fossse deepen and become converted into a deep channel, j which eventually forms the upper part of the nasal fossae—that is, the two superior | meatuses, the part to which the olfactory nerves are distributed. At this time | they are continuous with the buccal cavity, a portion of which forms the lower ^ part, or inferior meatus of the nasal fossae. For as the palatine septum is formed, ! the buccal cavity is divided into two parts, the upper of which forms the lower part j of the nasal fossae, while the remainder forms the permanent mouth. The soft parts of the nose are formed from the coverings of the frontal pro- ' jections and of the olfactory fossae. The nose is perceptible about the end of the ' second month. The nostrils are at first closed by epithelium, but this disappears about the fifth month. The olfactory nerve, as above pointed out, is formed from the anterior cerebral) vesicle, as a secondary vesicle on its under surface, and it lies upon the involuted ! epiblast, which subsequently forms the nasal fossae. Development of the Skin, Glands, and Soft Parts.—^The epidermis is produced from the external, the true skin from the middle, blastodermic layer (fig. 79, 19, 20). About the fifth week the epidermis presents two layers, the deeper one correspond- | ing to the rete mucosum. The subcutaneous fat forms about the fourth month, ; and the papillae of the true skin about the sixth. A considerable desquamation of. epidermis takes place during foetal life, and this desquamated epidermis, mixed with a sebaceous secretion, constitutes the vernix caseosa, with which the skin is | smeared during the last three months of foetal life. The nails are formed at the j third month, and begin to project from the epidermis about the sixth. The hairs I appear between the third and fourth month in the form of depressions of thei deeper layer of the epithelium, which then become inverted by a projection from I the papillary layer of the skin. The papillae grow into the interior of the epithe- lial layer ; and finally, about the fifth month, the foetal hairs {lanugo) appear first, on the head and then on the other parts. These hairs drop oft' after birth, and I give place to the permanent hairs. The cellular structure of the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands is formed from the epithelial layer, while the connective tissue and blood-vessels are derived from the mesoblast about the fifth or sixth month. \ The mammary gland is also formed : partly from mesoblast—its blood-vessels and; connective tissue ; and partly from epiblast—its cellular elements. Its first rudi-1 ment is seen about the third month, in the form of a small projection inwards| of epithelial elements, which invade the mesoblast; from this, similar tracts of i cellular elements radiate; these subsequently give rise to the glandular follicles; and ducts. The development of the former, however, remains imperfect, except j in the adult female, and especially after pregnancy. 1| Development of the Limbs.—The upper and lower limbs begin to project, asi buds, from the anterior and posterior part of the embryo about the fourth week.ij These buds are formed by a projection of the somatopleure (i.e. the outer layer ofi the mesoblast and the epiblast) from the point where the mesoblast splits into itsj parietal and visceral layers, just external to the vertebral somites, of which theyij may be regarded as lateral extensions. The division of the terminal portion ofj the bud into fingers and toes is early indicated, and soon a notch or constrictionj marks the future separation of the hand or foot from the fore-arm or leg. Next, al similar groove appears at the site of the elbow or knee. The indifferent tissue oi| blastema, of which the whole projection is at first composed, is differentiated intdj