THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA* THE Muscles are connected Avith the bones, cartilages, ligaments, and skin, either directly or through the intervention of fibrous structures, called tendons or aponeuroses. Where a muscle is attached to bone or cartilage, the fibres terminate in blunt extremities upon the periosteum or perichondrium, and do not come into direct relation with the osseous or cartilaginous tissue. Where muscles are connected with the skin, they either lie as a flattened layer beneath it, or are connected with its areolar tissue by larger or smaller bundles of fibres, as in the muscles of the face. The muscles vary extremely in their form. In the limbs, they are of consider- able length, especially the more superficial ones, the deep ones being generally broad ; they surround the bones, and form an important protection to the various joints. In the trunk, they are broad, flattened, and expanded, forming the parietes of the cavities which they enclose ; hence the reason of the terms, long, broad, short, etc., used in the description of a muscle. There is a considerable variation in the arrangement of the fibres of certain muscles with reference to the tendons to which they are attached. In some, the fibres are parallel and run directly from their origin to their insertion; these are quadrilateral muscles, such as the Thyro-hyoid. A modification of these is found in the fusiform muscles, in which the fibres are not quite parallel, but slightly curved, so that the muscle tapers at each end; in their action, however, they resemble the quadrilateral muscles. Secondly, in other muscles the fibres are convergent; arising by a broad origin, they converge to a narrow or pointed insertion. This arrangement of fibres is found in the triangular muscles—e.g. the Temporal. In some muscles, which otherwise would belong to the quadrilateral or triangular type, the origin and insertion are not in the same plane, but the plane of the line of origin intersects that of their insertion : such is the case in the Pectineus muscle. Thirdly, in some muscles the fibres are oblique and converge, like the plumes of a pen, to one side of a tendon, which runs the entire length of the muscle. Such a muscle is rhomboidal or penniform, as the Peronei. xA. modification of these rhomboidal muscles is found in those cases where oblique fibres converge to both sides of a central tendon which runs down the middle of the muscle ; these are called bipenniform, and an example is aflbrded in the Piectus femoris. Finally, we have muscles in which the fibres are arranged in curved bundles in one or more planes, as in the Sphincter muscles. The arrangement of the muscular fibres is of considerable importance in respect to their relative strength and range of movement. Those muscles where the fibres are long and few in number have great range, but diminished strength; where, on the other The Muscles and Fascite are described conjointly, in order that the student may consider the arrangement of the latter in his dissection of the former. It is rare for the student of anatomy in this country to have the opportunity of dissecting the fasciae separately ; and it is for this reason, as well as from the close connection that exists between the muscles and theii^ investing sheaths, that they are considered together. Some general observations are first made on the anatomy of the muscles and fasciae, the special description being given in connection with the different regions.