634 VEINS anterior temporal vein, and runs downwards and inwards, superficial to the Occipito-frontalis muscle, receiving tributaries from the neighbouring structures, and joins the frontal vein at the inner angle of the orbit to form the angular vein. The angular vela formed by the junction of the frontal and supra-orbital veins runs obliquely downwards and outwards, on the side of the root of the nose, and receives the veins of the ala nasi on its inner side, and the superior palpebral veins on its outer side ; it moreover communicates with the ophthalmic vein, thus establishing an important anastomosis between this vessel and the cavernous sinus. Some small veins from the dorsum of the nose terminate in the nasal arch. The facial vein commences at the side of the root of the nose, being a direct continuation of the angular vein. It passes obliquely downwards and outwards, beneath the Zygomaticus major and minor muscles, descends along the anterior border of the Masseter, crosses over the body of the lower jaw, with the facial artery, and, passing obliquely outwards and backwards, beneath the Platysma and cervical fascia, unites with a branch of communication from the temporo-maxillary vein, to form a trunk of large size which enters the internal jugular. From near its termination a communicating branch often runs down the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid to join the lower part of the anterior jugular. Tributaries.—The facial vein receives, near the angle of the mouth, communi- cating tributaries of considerable size (the deep facial or anterior internal maxillary vein) from the pterygoid plexus. It is also joined by the inferior palpebral, the superior and inferior labial veins, the buccal veins from the cheek, and the masseteric veins. Below the jaw it receives the submental, the inferior palatine, which returns the blood from the plexus around the tonsil and soft palate ; the submaxillary vein, which commences in the submaxillary gland; and, generally, the ranine vein. Surgical Anatomy.—There are some points about the facial vein which render it of great importance in surgery. It is not so flaccid as are most superficial veins, and, in con- sequence of this, remains more patent when divided. It has, moreover, no valves. It communicates freely with the intracranial circulation, not only at its commencement by its tributaries, the angular and supra-orbital veins, communicating with the ophthalmic vein, a tributary of the cavernous sinus ; but also by its deep branch, which communicates through the pterygoid plexus with the cavernous sinus by branches which pass through the foramen ovale and foramen lacerum medium (see page 643). These facts have an important bearing upon the surgery of some diseases of tlie face. For on account of its patency the facial vein favours septic absorption, and therefore any phlegmonous inflammation of the face following a poisoned wound is liable to set up thrombosis in the facial vein. And on account of its communications with the cerebral sinuses, these thrombi are apt to extend upwards into them, and detached portions may give rise to purulent foci in other parts of the body, and so induce a fatal issue. The Temporal Vein commences by a minute plexus on the side and vertex of the skull, which communicates with the frontal and supra-orbital veins in front, the corresponding vein of the opposite side, and the posterior auricular and occipital veins behind. From this network, anterior and posterior branches are formed Avhich unite above the zygoma, forming the trunk of the vein. This trunk is joined in this situation by a large vein, the middle temporal, which receives the blood from the substance of the Temporal muscle and pierces the fascia at the upper border of the zygoma. The temporal vein then descends between the external auditory meatus and the condyle of the jaw, enters the substance of the parotid gland, and unites with the internal maxillary vein to form the temporo-maxillary vein. Tributaries.—The temporal vein receives in its course some parotid veins, an articular branch from the articulation of the jaw, anterior auricular veins from the external ear, and a vein of large size, the transverse facial, from the side of the face. The middle temporal vein, previous to its junction with the temporal vein, receives a branch, the orbital vein, which is formed by some external palpebral branches, and passes backwards between the layers of the temporal fascia. The Internal Maxillary Vein is a vessel of considerable size, receiving branches which correspond with those of the internal maxillary artery. Thus it receives