ORGANS OF DIGESTION 912 latter tissue, especially in early life, is collected into little masses, which to a certain extent resemble the solitary glands of the intestine, and are by some termed the lenticular glands of the stomach. They are not, however, so distinctly circum- scribed as the solitary glands. The epithelium lining the mucous membrane of the stomach and its alveoli is of the columnar variety. Beneath the mucous membrane, and between it and the submucous coat, is a thin stratum of involuntary muscular fibre {muscularis mitcoscs), which in some parts consists only of a single longitudinal layer ; in others, of two layers, an inner, circular, and an outer, longitudinal. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the stomach are : the gastric, the pyloric and right gastro-epiploic branches of the hepatic, the left gastro-epiploic and vasa brevia from the splenic. They supply the muscular coat, ramify in the submucous coat, and are finally distributed to the mucous membrane. The arrangement of the vessels in the mucous membrane is somewhat peculiar. The arteries break up at the base of the gastric tubules into a plexus of fine capillaries Avhich run upwards between the tubules, anastomosing with each other, and ending in a plexus of larger capillaries, which surround the mouths of the tubes, and also form hexagonal meshes around the alveoli. From these latter the veins arise, and pursue a straight course backwards, between the tubules, to the submucous tissue, and terminate either in the splenic and superior mesenteric veins, or directly in the portal vein. The lymphatics are numerous ; they consist of a superficial and deep set, which pass through the lymphatic glands found along the two curvatures of the organ. The nerves are the terminal branches of the right and left pneumo- gastric, the former being distributed upon the back, and the latter upon the front part of the organ. A great number of branches from the sympathetic also supply the organ. Surface Form.—The stomach lies for the most part in the left hypochondriac region, but also slightly in the epigastric region, and is partly in contact with the abdominal wall, partly under cover of the lower ribs on the left side, and partly under the left lobe of the liver. Its cardiac orifice is behind the seventh costal cartilage of the left side, about one inch from its junction with the sternimi, on a level with the tenth dorsal vertebra. The pyloric orifice is in a vertical line drawn from the right border of the sternum, two and a half or three inches below the level of the sterno-xiphoid articulation. According to Braune, when the stomach is distended, the pylorus moves considerably to the right, as much sometimes as three inches. The lesser curvature of the stomach is represented by a curved line with its convexity downwards from the cardiac to the pyloric extremities; the greater curvature by a similarly curved line between the same points, but with a curve of much greater extent, so that its lowest point reaches a horizontal line drawn between the tips of the tenth costal cartilages. The fundus of the stomach reaches, on the left side, as high as the level of the sixth chondro-sternal articulation, being a little below and behind the apex of the heart. The portion of the stomach which is in contact with the abdominal walls, and is therefore accessible for opening in the operations of gastrotomy and gastrostomy, is represented by a triangular space, the base of which is formed by a line drawn from the tip of the tenth costal cartilage on the left side to the tip of the ninth costal cartilage on the right, and the sides by two lines drawn from the extremity of the eighth costal cartilage on the left side to the ends of the base line. Surgical Anatoviy.—Operations on the stomach are frequently performed. By ' gastrotomy' is meant an incision into the stomach for the removal of a foreign body, the opening being immediately afterwards closed—in contradistinction to ' gastrostomy,' the making of a more or less permanent fistulous opening. Gastrotomy is probably best performed by an incision in the linea alba, especially if the forei^jn body is large, by a cut from the ensiform cartilage to the umbilicus; but may be performed by an incision over the body itself, where this can be felt, or by one of the incisions for gastrostomy, to be mentioned immediately. The peritoneal cavity is opened, and the point at which the stomach is to be incised decided upon. This portion is tlien brought out of the abdominal wound and sponges carefully packed around. The stomach is now opened by a transverse incision and the foreign body extracted. The wound in the stomach is then closed by Lembert's sutures, i.e. by sutures passed through the peritoneal and muscular coats in such a way that the peritoneal surfaces on each side of the wound are brought into apposition, and in this way the wound is closed. Gastrostomy is performed in two stages. The first stage consists in opening the peritoneal cavity and stitching the stomach to the abdominal wall. The second stage consists in opening the stomach, after a few days have elapsed, and adhesions formed between the peritoneal surfaces of the stomach and abdominal wall. The operation is usually performed by an oblique incision, about