22 GENERAL ANATOMY in every direction, except immediately around each cell, by a network of yellow elastic fibres, branching and anastomosing in all directions (fig. 25). The fibres resemble those of yellow elastic tissue, both in appearance and in being unaffected by acetic acid; and accord- ing to Rollett their continuity with the elastic fibres of the neighbouring tissue admits of being demonstrated. The distinguishing feature of cartilage as to its chemical composition, is that it yields on boiling a substance called chondrii'i, very similar to gelatine, but differing from it in not being precipitated by tannin. According to Kiihne there is a small amount of gelatine in hyaline cartilage. Virchow believes that the semilunar discs in the knee- they yield no chondrin on boiling ; and he appears to regard them as a modification of a tendinous structure, which, however, agrees with the cartilages in the important particular of being noii-vascular. Temporary cartilage and the process of its ossification will be described wdth bone. BONE Structure and Physical Properties of Bone.—Bone is one of the hardest structures of the animal body ; it possesses also a certain degree of toughness and elasticity. Its colour, in a fresh state, is of a pinkish w^hite externally, and deep red within. On examining a section of any bone, it is seen to be composed of two kinds of tissue, one of which is dense and comjmct in texture, like ivory; the other consists of slender fibres and lamellae, which join to form a reticular structure ; this, from its resemblance to lattice-work, is called cancellous. The compact tissue is always placed on the exterior of the bone ; the cancellous is always internal. The relative quantity of these two kinds of tissue varies in different bones, and in difterent parts of the same bone, as strength or lightness is requisite. Close examination of the compact tissue shows it to be extremely porous, so that the difference in structure between it and the cancellous tissue depends merely upon the difterent amount of solid matter, and the size and number of spaces in each ; the cavities being small in the compact tissue and the solid matter between them abundant, whilst in the cancellous tissue the spaces are large and the solid matter in smaller quantity. Bone during life is permeated by vessels and is enclosed in a fibrous membrane, the xieriosteum, by means of which many of these vessels reach the hard tissue. If the periosteum is stripped from the surface of the living bone small bleeding points are seen, which mark the entrance of the periosteal vessels; and on section during life, every part of the bone will be seen to exude blood from the minute vessels which ramify in it. The interior of the bones of the hmbs presents a cylindrical cavity filled with marrow and lined by a highly vascular areolar struc- ture, called the medullary membrane or internal periosteum, which, however, is rather the areolar envelope of the cells of the marrow, than a definite membrane. The periosteum adheres to the surface of the bones in nearly every part, excepting at their cartilaginous extremities. Where strong tendons or ligaments are attached to the bone, the periosteum is incorporated with them. It consists Fig. 25.—Yellow cartilage, ear of horse. High power. joint are wrongly denominated cartilages, since