OEGANS OF SENSE 858 The extrinsic ligaments, the most important, are two in number, anterior and posterior. The anterior ligament extends from the process of the helix to the root of the zygoma. A few fibres connect the tragus to the root of the zygoma. The posterior ligament passes from the posterior surface of the concha to the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. The intrinsic ligaments are also two in number. Of these, one is a strong fibrous band, stretching across from the tragus to the commencement of the helix, completing the meatus in front, and partly encircling the boundary of the concha; the other extends between the concha and the processus caudatus. The muscles of the phma (fig. 477) consist of two sets:—i. The extrinsic, which connect it with the side of the head, moving the pinna as a whole, viz. the Attollens, Attrahens, and Eetrahens aurem (page 370); and 2. the intrinsic, which extend from one part of the auricle to another, viz.— Helicis major. Antitragicus. Helicis minor. Transversus auriculae. Tragicus. Obliquus auris. The Musculus helicis major is a narrow vertical band of muscular fibres, situated upon the anterior margin of the helix. It arises, below, from the process of the helix, and is inserted into the anterior border of the helix, just where it is about to curve backwards. It is pretty constant in its existence. The Musculus helicis minor is an oblique fasciculus, attached to that part of the helix which commences from the bottom of the concha. The Tragicus is a short, flattened band of muscular fibres situated upon the outer surface of the tragus, the direction of its fibres being vertical. The Antitragicus arises from the outer part of the antitragus : its fibres are inserted into the processus caudatus of the helix. This muscle is usually very distinct. The Transversus auricitlce is placed on the cranial surface of the pinna. It consists of radiating fibres, partly tendinous and partly muscular, extending from the convexity of the concha to the prominence corresponding with the groove of the helix. The OhligiLUs auris (Todd) consists of a few fibres extending from the upper and back part of the concha to the convexity immediately above it. The arteries of the pinna are the posterior auricular from the external carotid, the anterior auricular from the temporal; and an auricular branch from the occipital artery. The veins accompany the corresponding arteries. The nerves are : the auricularis magnus, from the cervical plexus ; the posterior auricular, from the facial to the muscles of the pinna; the auricular branch of the pneumogastric ; the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve ; the occipitalis minor from the cervical plexus, and the occipitalis major or internal branch of the posterior division of the second cervical nerve. The Auditory Canal {^meatus auclitorius externus) (fig. 500) extends from the bottom of the concha to the membrana tympani. It is about an inch and a quarter in length, its direction is obliquely forwards and inwards, and it is slightly curved upon itself, so as to be higher in the middle than at either extremity. It forms an oval cylindrical canal, the greatest diameter being in the vertical direction at the external orifice, but in the transverse direction at the tympanic end. The calibre of the canal is narrowest about the middle. The membrana tympani, which occupies the termination of the meatus, is obliquely directed, in consequence of which the floor of the canal is longer than the roof, and the anterior wall longer than the posterior. The auditory canal is formed partly by cartilage and mem- brane, and partly by bone, and is covered by skin. The cartilaginous portion is about half an inch in length, being rather less than half the canal; it is formed by the cartilage of the concha and tragus, prolonged inwards, and firmly attached to the circumference of the auditory process of the