THE SKELETON 154 the anterior clinoid process. The lesser wing is connected to the side of the body by two roots, the upper thin and flat, the lower thicker, obliquely directed, and presenting on its outer side, near its junction with the body, a small tubercle, for the attachment of the common tendon of three of the muscles of the e3-e. Between the two roots is the ojHic foramen, for the transmission of the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. The Pterygoid Processes {-n-Tepv^, a icing ; elSo?, likeness), one on each side, descend perpendicularly from the point where the body and greater wing unite (fig. 145). Each process consists of an external and an internal plate, separated behind by an intervening notch—the lAerygoid fossa ; but joined partially in front. The external pterygoid plate is broad and thin, turned a little outwards, and forms part of the inner wall of the zygomatic fossa. It gives attachment, by its outer sur- face, to the External ptery- goid ; its inner surface forms part of the pterygoid fossa, and gives attachment to the Internal pterygoid. The in- ternal pterygoid plate is much narrower and longer, curving outwards, at its extremity, into a hook-like process of bone, the hamular process, around which turns the tendon of the Tensor palati muscle. On the posterior surface of the base of this plate is a small, oval, shallow depression, the scaphoid fossa, from which arises the Tensor palati, and above which is seen the posterior orifice of the Vidian canal. Below and to the inner side of the Vidian canal, on the posterior surface of the base of this plate, is a little prominence, which is known by the name of the pterygoid tubercle. The outer surface of this plate forms part of the pterygoid fossa, the inner surface forming the outer boundary of the posterior aperture of the nares. The Superior constrictor of the pharynx is attached to its posterior edge. The two pterygoid plates are separated below by an angular interval, in which the pterygoid process, or tuberosity, of the palate bone is received. The anterior surface of the pterygoid process is very broad at its base, and forms the posterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa. It supports Meckel's ganglion. It presents, above, the anterior orifice of the Vidian canal; and below, a rough margin, which articulates with the perpendicular plate of the palate bone. The Sphenoidal Spongy Bones are two thin, curved plates of bones, which exist as separate pieces until puberty, and occasionally are not joined to the sphenoid in the adult. They are situated at the anterior and inferior part of the body of the sphenoid, an aperture of variable size being left in their anterior wall, through which the sphenoidal sinuses open into the nasal fossas. They are irregular in form, and taper to a point behind, being broader and thinner in front. Their upper surface, which looks towards the cavity of the sinus, is concave ; their under surface convex. Each bone articulates in front with the ethmoid, externally with the palate ; its pointed posterior extremity is placed above the vomer, and is received between the root of the pterygoid process on the outer side, and the rostrum of the sphenoid on the inner.* Development.—Up to about the eighth month of foetal life the sphenoid bone * A small portion of the sphenoidal turbinated bone sometimes enters into the forma- tion of the inner wall of the orbit, between the os planum of the ethmoid in front, the orbital plate of the palate below, and the frontal above. Cleland, Roy. Soc. Trans. 1862. Fig. 145.—Sphenoid bone. Posterior surface.