io68 SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM The superficial fascia is exposed on the removal of the skin : it is very thick, areolar in texture, and contains much fat in its meshes. In it are found ramifying two or three cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve ; these turn round the inferior border of the Gluteus maximus, and are distributed to the integument around the anus. In this region, and connected Avith the lower end of the rectum, are four muscles : the Gorrugator cutis ani; the two Sphincters, External and Internal; and the Levator ani. These muscles have been already described (see page 436). The ischio-reetal fossa is situated between the end of the rectum and the tuberosity of the ischium on each side. It is triangular in shape ; its base, directed to the surface of the body, is formed by the integument of the ischio-rectal region ; its aioex, directed upwards, corresponds to the point of division of the obturator fascia, and the thin membrane given off from it, which covers the outer surface of the Levator ani (ischio-rectal or anal fascia). Its dimensions are about an inch in breadth at the base, and about two inches in depth, being deeper behind than in front. It is bounded, internally, by the Sphincter ani. Levator ani, and Coccygeus Fig. 631.—Dissection of perinaeum and ischio-rectal region. muscles ; externally, by the tuberosity of the ischium and the obturator fascia, which covers the inner surface of the Obturator internus muscle; in front, it is limited by the line of junction of the superficial and deep perineal fasciae ; and behind, by the margin of the Gluteus maximus, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. This space is filled w4th a large mass of adipose tissue, which explains the frequency with which abscesses in the neighbourhood of the rectum burrow to a considerable depth. If the subject has been injected, on placing the finger on the outer wall of this fossa, the internal pudic artery, with its accompanying veins and nerve, will be felt about an inch and a half above the margin of the ischiatic tuberosity, but approaching nearer the surface as they pass forwards along the inner margin of the pubic arch. These structures are enclosed in a sheath (canal of Alcock) formed by the obturator fascia, the pudic nerve lying below the artery (fig. 374). Crossing the space transversely, about its centre, are the j nferior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, branches of the internal pudic ; they are distributed to the integument of the anus, and to the muscles of the lower end of the rectum. These vessels are occasionally of large size, and may give rise to troublesome haemorrhage when divided in the operation of lithotomy, or of fistula in ano. At the back part of this space may be seen a branch of the fourth sacral nerve ; and, at the fore part of the space, the superficial perineal vessels and neyves can be seen for a short distance.