OF THE THIGH 485 numerous blood and lymphatic vessels, hence it has been termed, the cribriform fascia, the openings for these vessels having been likened to the holes in a sieve. The cribriform fascia adheres closely both to the superficial fascia and to the fascia lata, so that it is described by some anatomists as part of the fascia lata, but is usually considered (as in this work) as belonging to the superficial fascia. It is not until the cribriform fascia has been cleared away that the saphenous opening is seen, so that this opening does not in ordinary cases exist naturally, but is the result of dissection. Mr. Callender, however, speaks of cases in which, probably as the result of pressure from enlarged inguinal lymphatic glands, the fascia has become atrophied, and a saphenous opening exists independent of dissection. A femoral hernia in passing through the saphenous opening receives the cribriform fascia as one of its coverings. A large subcutaneous bursa is found in the superficial fascia over the patella. The deep fascia of the thigh is exposed on the removal of the superficial fascia, and is named, from its great extent, the fascia lata ; it forms a uniform investment for the whole of this region of the limb, but varies in thickness in different parts; thus, it is thicker in the upper and outer part of the thigh, where it receives a fibrous expansion from the Gluteus maximus muscle, and the Tensor vaginae femoris is inserted between its layers : it is very thin behind, and at the upper and inner part where it covers the Adductor muscles, and again becomes stronger around the knee, receiving- fibrous expansions from the tendon of the Biceps externally, and from the Sartorius internally, and Quadriceps extensor cruris m front. The fascia lata is attached, above and behind, to the back of the sacrum and coccyx ; externally, to the crest of the ilium ; in front, to Poupart's ligament, and to the body of the os pubis ; and internally, to the descending ramus of the os pubis, to the ascending ramus and tuberosity of the ischium, and to the lower border of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From its attach- ment to the crest of the ilium it passes down over the Gluteus medius muscle to the upper border of the Gluteus maximus, where it splits into two layers, one passing superficial to and the other beneath this muscle. At the lower border of the muscle the two layers unite. Externally, just below the great trochanter, the fascia lata receives the greater part of the tendon of insertion of the Gluteus maximus, and becomes proportionately thickened. The portion of the fascia lata arising from the front part of the crest of the ilium, corre- sponding to the origin of the Tensor vaginae femoris, passes down the outer side of the thigh as two layers, one superficial and the other beneath this muscle ; these at its lower end become blended together into a thick and strong band, having first received the insertion of the muscle. This band is continued downwards, under the name of the ilio-tihial hand, to be inserted into the external tuberosity of the tibia. Below, the fascia lata is attached to all the prominent points around the knee-joint ; viz. the condyles of the Fig. 325.—Dissection of lower extremity. Front view,