373 ORBITAL REGION The Levator palpebrae superioris is thin, flat, and- triangular in shape. It arises from the under surface of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, above and in front of the optic foramen, from which it is separated by the origin of the Superior rectus ; and is inserted, by a broad aponeurosis, into the anterior surface of the superior tarsal plate. From this aponeurosis a thin expansion is continued onwards, passing between the fibres of the Orbicularis to be inserted into the skin of the lid. At its origin, it is narrow and tendinous, but soon becomes broad and fleshy, and finally terminates in a broad aponeurosis. Relations.—By its u^jjer surface, with the frontal nerve and supra-orbital artery, the periosteum of the orbit; and, in the lid, with the inner surface of the tarsal ligament. By its under surface, with the Superior rectus ; and, in the lid, with the conjunctiva. A small branch of the third nerve enters its under surface. The Superior rectus, the thinnest and narrowest of the four Recti, arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen beneath the Levator palpebrae and Superior oblique, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve; and is inserted, by a tendinous expansion, into the sclerotic coat, about three or four lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations.—By its upper surface, with the Levator palpebrae. By its under surface, with the optic nerve, the ophthalmic artery, the nasal nerve, and the branch of the third nerve which supplies it; and, in front, with the tendon of the Superior oblique, and the globe of the eye. The Inferior and Internal Recti arise by a common tendon (the ligament of Zinn),* which is attached round the circumference of the optic foramen, except at its upper and outer part. The External rectus has two heads : the upper one arises from the outer margin of the optic foramen immediately beneath the Superior rectus ; the lower head, partly from the ligament of Zinn, and partly from a small pointed process of bone on the lower margin of the sphenoidal fissure. Each muscle Fig. 272.—The relative position and at- passes forward in the position implied by its name, to be inserted by a tendinous expansion (the tunica alhuginea) into the sclerotic coat, about three or four lines from the margin of the cornea. Between the two heads of the External rectus is a narrow interval, through which passes the third, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth and the sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic vein. Although nearly all of these muscles present a common origin and are inserted in a similar manner into the sclerotic coat, there are certain differences to be observed in them, as regards their length and breadth. The Internal rectus is the broadest; the External is the longest; and the Superior is the thinnest and narrowest. The Superior oblique is a fusiform muscle, placed at the upper and inner side of the orbit, internal to the Levator palpebrae. It arises about a line above the inner margin of the optic foramen, and, passing forwards to the inner angle of the orbit, terminates in a rounded tendon, which plays in a ring or pulley, formed by cartilaginous tissue attached to a depression beneath the internal angular process of the frontal bone, the contiguous surfaces of the tendon and ring being lined by * The ligament of Zinn ought, perhaps more appropriatel}', to be termed the apo- neurosis or tendon of Zinn. Mr. C. B. Lock wood has described a somewhat similar structure on the under surface of the Superior rectus muscle, which is attached to the lesser wing of the sphenoid forming the upper and outer margin of the optic foramen. This su/perior tendon gives origin to the Superior rectus, the superior head of the External rectus, and the upper part of the Internal rectus.—Journal of Anatomy and Plnjsiologij, vol. XX. part i. p. i. tachment of the muscles of the left eyeball. Rectus superior