264 THE SKELETON lower end of the femur is the only ei^iphysis in which ossification has commenced at the time of birth. The presence of this ossific centre is, therefore, a proof, in newly-born children found dead, that the child has arrived at the full period of utero-gestation, and is always relied upon in medico-legal investigations. The position of the epiphysial line should be carefLilly noted. It is on a level with the adductor tubercle, and the epiphysis does not, therefore, form the whole of the cartilage-clad portion of the lower end of the bone. It is essential to bear this point in mind in performing excision of the knee, since growth in length of the femm- takes place chiefly from the lower epiphysis, and any interference with the epiphysial cartilage in a young child would involve such ultimate shortening of the limb, from want of growth, as to render it almost useless. Separation of the lower epiphysis may take place up to the age of twenty, at which time it becomes completely joined to the shaft of the bone; but, as a matter of fact, few cases occur after the age of sixteen or seventeen. The upper epiphysis of the femur is of interest principally on account of its being the seat of origin of a large number of cases of tubercular disease of the hip-joint. The disease commences in the majority of cases in the highlj^ vascular and growing tissue in the neighbourhood of the epiphysis, and from here extends into the joint. Fractures of the femur are divided, like those of the other long bones, into fractures of the upper end ; of the shaft; and of the lower end. The fractures of the upper end may be classified into (i) fracture of the neck; (2) fracture at the junction of the neck with the great trochanter; (3) fracture of the great trochanter; and (4) separation of the epiphysis, either of the head or of the great trochanter. The first of these, fracture of the neck, is usually termed intracapsular fractm''e, but this is scarcely a correct designation as, owing to the attachment of the capsular ligament, the fractare maybe partly within and partly without the capsule when the fracture occurs at the lower part of the neck. It generally occurs in old people, principally women, and usually fi^om a very slight degree of indirect violence. Probably the main cause of the fracture taking place in old people, is in consequence of the degenerative changes which the bone has undergone. Merkel believes that is it mainly due to the absorption of the calcar femorale. These fractures are occasionally impacted. As a rule they unite by fibrous tissue, and frequently no union takes place, and the surfaces of the fracture become smooth and eburnated. Fractures at the junction of the neck with the great trochanter are usually termed extra-capsular, but this designation is also incorrect, as the fi^acture is partly within the capsule, owing to its attachment in front to the anterior intertrochanteric line, which is situated below the line of fracture. These fractures are produced by direct violence to the great trochanter, as from a blow or fall laterally on the hip. From the manner in which the accident is caused, the neck of the bone is driven into the trochanter, where it may remain impacted, or the trochanter may be split up into two or more fragments, and thus no fixation takes place. Fractures of the great trochanter may be either ' oblique fracture through the trochanter major, without implicating the neck of the bone ' (Astley Cooper), or separation of the great trochanter. Most of the recorded cases of this latter injury occurred in young persons, and were probably cases of separation of the epiphysis of the great trochanter. Separation of the epiphysis of the head of the femur has been said to occur, but, as far as I know, has never been verified by post-mortem examination. Fractm-es of the shaft may occur at any part, but the most usual situation is at or near the centre of the bone. They may be caused by direct or indirect violence or by muscular action. Fractures of the upper third of the shaft are almost always the result of indirect violence, whilst those of the lower third are the result, for the most part, of direct violence. In the middle third fractures occur from both forms of injury in about equal proportions. Fractures of the shaft are generally oblique, but they may be transverse, longitudinal, or spiral. The transverse fracture occurs most frequently in children. The fractures of the lower end of the femur include transverse fracture above the condyles, the most common; and this may be complicated by a vertical fracture between the condyles, constituting the T-shaped fracture. In these cases the x3opliteal artery is in danger of being wounded. Oblique fracture separating either the internal or external condyle, and a longitudinal incomplete fracture between the condyles may also take place. The femur as well as the other bones of the leg are frequently the seat of acute necrosis in young children. This is no doubt due to their greater exposure to injury, which is often the exciting cause of this disease. Tumours not uiifrequently are found growing from the femur : the most common forms being sarcoma, which may grow either from the periosteum or from the medullary tissue within the interior of the bone ; and exostosis, which is com- monly found originating in the neighbourhood of the epiphysial cartilage of the lower end. THE LEG The skeleton of the Leg consists of three bones : the Patella, a large, sesamoid bone, placed in front of the knee; the Tibia ; and the Fibula.