THE SKELETON Fig. 213 Oliturator hiteriuis and gemelli Pijriformis Eiffht femur. Anterior surface Depre^aion for .ligamentum tere. yArtie. ri;'f/,l The posterior surface is smooth, and is broader and more concave than the an- terior ; it gives attachment to the posterior part of the \^ III capsular ligament of the hip-joint, about half an inch above the posterior intertrochanteric line. The suj)erior border is short and thick, and -/ terminates externally at the great tro- chanter ; its surface is perforated by large foramina. The inferior border, long and narrow, curves a little backwards, to terminate at the lesser trochanter. The Trochanters {rpoxaoi, to run or roll) are prominent processes of bone which afford leverage to the muscles which rotate the thigh on its axis. They are two in number, the great and the lesser. The Great Trochanter is a large, irregular, quadrilateral eminence, situ- ated at the outer side of the neck, at its junction with the upper part of the shaft. It is directed a little outwards and back- wards, and, in the adult, is about three- quarters of an inch lower than the head. It presents for examination two surfaces and four borders. The external surface, quadrilateral in form, is broad, rough, convex, and marked by a prominent dia- gonal line, which extends from the pos- terior superior to the anterior inferior angle ; this line serves for the attach- ment of the tendon of the Gluteus medius. Above the line is a triangular surface, sometimes rough for part of the tendon of the same muscle, sometimes smooth for the interposition of a bursa between that tendon and the bone. Below and behind the diagonal line is a smooth, triangular surface, over which the tendon of the Gluteus maximus muscle plays, a bursa being interposed. The internal surface is of much less extent than the external, and presents at its base a deep depression, the digital or trochanteric fossa, for the attachment of the tendon of the Obturator externus muscle, and in front of this an impression for the attach- ment of the Obturator internus and Gemelli. The suj^erior border is free ; it is thick and irregular, and marked near the centre by an impression for the at- tachment of the Pyriformis. The inferior 6o7Y/er corresponds to the point of junc- WyZ. tion of the base of the trochanter with the SUS'CeUREUS