THE RIBS 205 direction of wliich is less constant than those found on the inner surface of the shaft. Of its two borders the superior presents a rough crest for the attachment of the anterior costotransverse ligament; its inferior border is rounded. On the posterior surface of the neck, just where it joins the shaft, and nearer the lower than the upper border, is an eminence—the tuberosity, or tubercle ; it consists of an articular and a non-articular portion. The articular portion, the more internal and inferior of the two, presents a small, oval surface for articulation with the extremity of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebrae to which the head is connected. The non-articular portion is a rough elevation, which affords attachment to the posterior costo-transverse ligament. The tubercle is much more prominent in the upper than in the lower ribs. The shaft is thin and flat, so as to present two surfaces, an external and an internal; and two borders, a superior and an inferior. The external surface is convex, smooth, and marked, at its back part, a little in front of the tuberosity, by a prominent line, directed obliquely from above downwards and outwards; this gives attachment to a tendon of the Ilio-costalis muscle, or of one of its accessory portions, and is called the angle. At this point the rib is bent in two directions. If the rib is laid upon its lower border, it will be seen that the portion of the shaft in front of the angle rests upon this border, while the portion of the shaft behind the angle is bent inwards and at the same time tilted upwards. The interval betw^een the angle and the tuberosity increases gradually from the second to the tenth rib. The portion of bone between these two parts is rounded, rough, and irregular, and serves for the attachment of the Longissimus dorsi muscle. The Fig. 186.—Vertebral extremity of a rib. External surface. For anterior costo-transverse ligament For -poste^'ior costo-transverse ligament Facet for body of upper dorsal vertehra Bidge for interarticular ligament Facet for body of lower dorsal vertebra For transverse process of lower dorsal vertehra portion of bone between the tubercle and sternal extremity is also slightly twisted upon its own axis, the external surface looking downwards behind the angle, a little upwards in front of it. This surface presents, towards its sternal extremity, an oblique line, the anterior angle. The internal surface is concave, smooth, directed a little upwards behind the angle, a little downwards in front of it. This surface is marked by a ridge w^hich commences at the lower extremity of the head; it is strongly marked as far as the inner side of the angle, and gradually becomes lost at the junction of the anterior with the middle third of the bone. The interval between it and the inferior border is deeply grooved, to lodge the intercostal vessels and nerve. At the back part of the bone, this groove belongs to the inferior border, but just in front of the angle, where it is deepest and broadest, it corresponds to the internal surface. The superior edge of the groove is rounded ; it serves for the attachment of the Internal intercostal muscle. The inferior edge corresponds to the lower margin of the rib, and gives attachment to the External intercostal. Within the groove are seen the orifices of numerous small foramina, which traverse the wall of the shaft obliquely £i'om before backwards. The superior border, thick and rounded, is marked by an external and an internal lip, more distinct behind than in front; they serve for the attachment of the External and Internal inter- costal muscles. The irferior border, thin and sharp, has attached to it the External intercostal muscle. The anterior or sternal extremity is flattened, and presents a porous, oval, concave depretssion, into which the costal cartilage is received.