452 MUSCLES AND FASCIA ligament of the shoulder-joint, to which it is intimately adherent, and is inserted into the highest of the three facets on the great tuberosity of the humerus. Relations.—By its tqyper surface, with the Trapezius, the clavicle, the acromion, the coraco-acromial ligament, and the Deltoid. By its tmde7' surface, with the scapula, the suprascapular vessels and nerve, and upper part of the shoulder-joint. The Infraspinous fascia is a dense fibrous membrane, covering in the Infra- spinatus muscle and attached to the circumference of the infraspinous fossa; it affords attachment, by its inner surface, to some fibres of that muscle. At the point where the Infraspinatus commences to be covered by the Deltoid, this fascia divides into two layers : one layer passes over the Deltoid muscle, helping to form the Deltoid fascia already described ; the other passes beneath the Deltoid to the shoulder-joint. The Infraspinatus is a thick, triangular muscle, which occupies the chief part of the infraspinous fossa, arising by fleshy fibres from its internal two-thirds ; and by tendinous fibres from the ridges on its surface : it also arises from a strong fascia which covers it externally, and separates it from the Teres major and minor. The fibres converge to a tendon, which glides over the external border of the spine of the scapula, and, passing across the capsular ligament of the shoulder- joint, is inserted into the middle facet on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of this muscle is occasionally separated from the spine of the scapula by a synovial bursa, which communicates with the synovial cavity of the shoulder- joint. Relations.—By its ijosterior surface, with the Deltoid, the Trapezius, Latissimus dorsi, and the integument. By its anterior surface, with the scapula, from which it is separated by the suprascapular and dorsalis scapulae vessels, and with the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. Its lower border is in contact with the Teres minor, and occasionally united with it, and with the Teres major. The Teres minor is a narrow, elongated muscle, which lies along the inferior border of the scapula. It arises from the dorsal surface of the axillary border of the scapula for the upper two-thirds of its extent, and from two aponeurotic laminge, one of which separates this muscle from the Infraspinatus, the other from the Teres major; its fibres pass obliquely upwards and outwards, and terminate in a tendon, which is inserted into the lowest of the three facets on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and, by fleshy fibres, into the humerus immediately below it. The tendon of this muscle passes across the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. Relations.—By its posterior surface, with the Deltoid, and the integument. By its anterior surface, with the scapula, the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery, the long head of the Triceps, and the shoulder-joint. By its tipper border, with the Infraspinatus. By its loiver border, with the Teres major, from which it is separated anteriorly by the long head of the Triceps. The Teres major is a broad and somewhat flattened muscle, which arises from the dorsal aspect of the inferior angle of the scapula, and from the fibrous septa interposed between it and the Teres minor and Infraspinatus ; the fibres are directed upwards and outwards, and terminate in a flat tendon, about two inches in length, which is inserted into the posterior bicipital ridge of the humerus. The tendon of this muscle, at its insertion into the humerus, lies behind that of the Latissimus dorsi, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa, the two tendons being, however, united along their lower borders for a short distance. Relations.—By its posterior surface, with the integument, from which it is separated, internally, by the Latissimus dorsi; and externally, by the long head of the Triceps. By its anterior surface, with the Subscapularis, Latissimus dorsi, Ooraco-brachialis, short head of the Biceps, the axillary vessels, and brachial plexus of nerves. Its upper border is at first in relation with the Teres minor, from which it is afterwards separated by the long head of the Triceps. Its loioer border forms, in conjunction with the Latissimus dorsi, part of the posterior boundary of the axilla.