338 ARTICULATIONS cavity is deficient, it is connected to the transverse ligament, and by a few fibres to the edge of the obturator foramen. Its loioer circumference surromids the neck of the femur, being attached, in front, to the spiral or anterior intertrochanteric line ; above, to the base of the neck; behind, to the neck of the bone, about half an inch above the posterior intertrochanteric line. From this insertion the fibres are reflected upwards over the neck of the femur, forming a sort of tubular sheath (the cervical reflection), which blends with the periosteum, and can be traced as far as the articular cartilage. It is much thicker at the upper and fore part of the joint, where the greatest amount of resistance is required, than below and internally, where it is thin, loose, and longer than in any other part. It consists of tAvo sets of fibres, circular and longitudinal. The circular fibres are most abundant at the lower and back part of the capsule, while the longitudinal fibres are greatest in amount at the upper and front part of the capsule, where they form distinct bands, or accessory ligaments, of which the most important is the ilio-femoral. The Fig. 253.-—Left hip-joint laid open. other accessory bands are knoAvn as the imho-femoral, passing from the ilio- pectineal eminence to the front of the capsule ; ilio-trochanteric, from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium to the front of the great trochanter ; and iscliio-capsular, passing from the ischium, just below the acetabulum, to blend with the circular fibres at the lower part of the joint. The external surface (fig. 239, page 311) is rough, covered by numerous muscles, and separated in front from the Psoas and Iliacus by a synovial bursa, which not unfrequently communicates, by a circular aperture, with the cavity of the joint. It differs from the capsular Hgament of the shoulder in being much less loose and lax, and in not being perforated for the passage of a tendon. The Ilio-femoral Ligament (figs. 239 and 254) is an accessory band of fibres, extending obhquely across the front of the joint; it is intimately connected with the capsular ligament, and serves to strengthen it in this situation. It is attached, above, to the lower part of the anterior inferior spine of the ilium; and, diverging