ARTEEIES 574 branch of the transversaUs colh, from the thyroid axis of the subclavian. About an inch and a half from its origin it gives off a large branch, the dorsalis scapulce, and terminates by supplying branches to the muscles in the neighbourhood. The dorsalis scapulae is given off from the subscapular about an inch from its origin, and is generally larger than the continuation of the vessel. It curves round the axillary border of the scapula, leaving the axilla through the space between the Teres minor above, the Teres major below, and the long head of the Triceps externally (fig. 361), and enters the infraspinous fossa, where it anastomoses with the posterior scapular and suprascapular arteries. In its course it gives off two sets of branches : one enters the subscapular fossa beneath the Subscapularis, which it supplies, anastomosing with the posterior scapular and suprascapular arteries ; the other is continued along the axillary border of the scapula, between the Teres major and minor, and, at the dorsal surface of the inferior angle of the bone, anastomoses with the posterior scapular. In addition to these, small branches are distributed to the back part of the Deltoid muscle and the long head of the Triceps, anastomosing with an ascending branch of the superior profunda of the brachial. The circumflex arteries wind round the neck of the humerus. The posterior circumflex (fig. 361), the larger of the two, arises from the back part of the axillary opposite the lower border of the Subscapularis muscle, and, passing backwards with the circumflex veins and nerve through the quadrangular space bounded by the Teres major and minor, the scapular head of the Triceps and the humerus, winds round the neck of that bone and is distributed to the Deltoid muscle and shoulder- joint, anastomosing with the anterior circumflex, and acromial thoracic arteries, and with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. The anterior circumflex (figs. 361, 362), considerably smaller than the preceding, arises just below that vessel, from the outer side of the axillary artery. It passes horizontally outwards, beneath the Coraco-brachialis and short head of the Biceps, lying upon the fore part of the neck of the humerus, and, on reaching the bicipital groove, gives off an ascending branch which passes upwards along the groove to supply the head of the bone and the shoulder-joint. The trunk of the vessel is then continued outwards beneath the Deltoid, which it supplies, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex artery. The Brachial Artery commences at the lower margin of the tendon of the Teres major, and, passing down the inner and anterior aspect of the arm, terminates about half an inch below the bend of the elbow, where it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. Brachial Aeteey (fig. 363) Plan of the Relations of the Brachial Artery In front. Integument and fasciae. Bicipital fascia, median basilic vein. Median nerve. Median nerve (above) Coraco-brachialis. , Biceps. Outer side. nerve. Median nerve (below). Basilic vein. Internal cutaneous and ulnar Inner side. Beliind. Triceps. Musculo-spiral nerve. Superior profunda artery. Coraco-brachialis. Brachialis anticus.