THE OVARIES 1041 The Ovaries {testes miiUebres, Galen) are analogous to the testes in the male. They are oval-shaped bodies, of an elongated form, flattened from above down- wards, situated one on each side of the uterus, in the posterior part of the broad ligament behind and below the Fallopian tubes. Each ovary is connected, by its anterior straight margin, to the broad ligaments; by its inner extremity, to the uterus by a proper ligament, the ligament of the ovary ; and by its outer end, to the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube by the ovarian fimbria; its superior and inferior surfaces and posterior convex border are free. The ovaries are- of a greyish-pink colour, and present either a smooth or puckered uneven surface. They are each about an inch and a half in length, three-quarters of an inch in width, and about a third of an inch thick ; and weigh from one to two drachms. The exact position of the ovary has been the subject of considerable difference of opinion, and writers differ much as to what is to be regarded as the normal posi- tion. The fact appears to be that it is differently placed in different individuals. Hasse has described it as being situated with its long axis transverse, or almost Fig. 617.—The uterus and its appendages. Posterior view. The parts have been some- what displaced from their proper position in the preparation of the specimen; thus the right ovary has been raised above the Fallopian tube, and the fimbriated extremities of the tubes have been turned upwards and outwards. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.) transverse, to the pelvic cavity. Schultze, on the other hand, believes that its long axis is antero-posterior. Kolliker asserts that the truth lies between these two views, and that the ovary is placed obliquely in the pelvis, its long axis lying parallel to the external iliac vessels, with its surface directed inwards and outwards, and its convex free border upwards. His has made some important observations on this subject, and his views are largely accepted. He teaches that the uterus rarely lies symmetrically in the middle of the pelvic cavity, but is generally inclined to one or other side, most frequently to the left, in the proportion of three to two. The position of the two ovaries varies according to the inclination of the uterus. When the uterus is inclined to the left, the ovary of this side lies with its long axis vertical and with one side closely applied to the outer wall of the pelvis ; while the ovary of the opposite side, being dragged upon by the inclination of the uterus, lies obliquely, its outer extremity being retained in close apposition to the side of the pelvis by the infundibulo-pelvic ligament (page 1037). When, on the other hand, the uterus is inclined to the right, the position of the two ovaries is exactly reversed, the right being vertical and the left oblique. In whichever position the ovary is placed, the Fallopian tube forms a loop around it, the uterine half ascending obliquely over it, and the outer half, including the dilated extremity, descending and bulging freely behind it. From this extremity the fimbriae pass upwards on to the ovary and closely embrace it. Structure.—The ovary consists of a number of Graafian vesicles, embedded in 3X