ARTICULATIONS and front x^art of the inner extremity of the clavicle ; and, passing obliquely downwards and inwards, is attached, below, to the up^oer and front part of the first piece of the sternum. This ligament is covered, in front, by the sternal portion of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid and the integument; behind, it is in relation with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and the two synovial membranes. The Posterior Sterno-clavicular Lig^ament is a similar band of fibres, which covers the posterior surface of the articulation, being attached, above, to the upper and back part of the inner extremity of the clavicle ; and, passing obliquely downwards and inwards, is attached, below, to the upper and back part of the first piece of the sternum. It is in relation, in front, with the interarticular fibro- cartilage and synovial membranes; behind, with the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno- thyroid muscles. The Interclavicular Ligament is a flattened band, which varies considerably in form and size in different individuals ; it passes in a curved direction from the upper part of the inner extremity of one clavicle to the other, and is closely attached to the upper margin of the sternum. It is in relation, in front, with the integument; behind, with the Sterno-thyroid muscles. The Costo-clavicular Ligament (rhomboid) is short, flat, and strong: it is of a rhomboid form, attached, below, to the upper and inner part of the cartilage of the first rib : it ascends obliquely backwards and outwards, and is attached, above, to the rhomboid depression on the under surface of the clavicle. It is in relation, in front, with the tendon of origin of the Subclavius; behind, with the subclavian vein. The Interarticular Fibro-cartilage is a flat and nearly circular disc, interposed between the articulating surfaces of the sternum and clavicle. It is attached, above, to the upper and posterior border of the articular surface of the clavicle; below, to the cartilage of the first rib, at its junction with the sternum ; and by its circumference to the anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular and interclavicular Hgaments. It is thicker at the circumference, especially its upper and back part, than at its centre, or below. It divides the joint into two cavities, each of which is furnished with a separate synovial membrane. Of the two Synovial Membranes found in this articulation, one is reflected from the sternal end of the clavicle, over the adjacent surface of the fibro-cartilage, and cartilage of the first rib ; the other is placed between the articular surface of the sternum and adjacent surface of the fibro-cartilage ; the latter is the larger of the two. They seldom contain much synovia. Actions.—This articulation is the centre of the movements of the shoulder, and admits of a Hmited amount of motion in nearly every direction—upwards, down- wards, backwards, forwards, as well as circumduction. When these movements take place in the joint, the clavicle in its motion carries the scapula with itj this bone ghding on the outer surface of the chest. This joint therefore forms the centre from which all movements of the supporting arch of the shoulder originate, and is the only point of articulation of this part of the skeleton with the trunk. ' The movements attendant on elevation and depression of the shoulder take place between the clavicle and the interarticular fibro-cartilage, the bone rotating upon the Hgament on an axis drawn from before backwards through its own articular facet. When the shoulder is moved forwards and backwards, the clavicle, with the interarticular fibro-cartilage, rolls to and fro on the articular surface of the sternum, revolving, with a sliding movement, round an axis drawn nearly vertically through the sternum. In the circumduction of the shoulder, which is compounded of these two movements, the clavicle revolves upon the interarticular fibro-cartilage, and the latter, with the clavicle, rolls upon the sternum.' * Elevation of the clavicle is principally limited by the costo-clavicular ligament; depression, by the inter- clavicular. The muscles which raise the clavicle, as in shrugging the shoulders, are the upper fibres of the Trapezius, the Levator anguli scapula?, the clavicular Humphry, On the Human Skeletoti, p. 402.