AETERIES 596 similar branch on each side, forming a series of arches, the convexities of which are directed towards the intestine. From this first set of arches branches arise, which again miite with similar branches from either side, and thus a second series of arches is formed ; and from these latter, a third, and a fom'th, or even fifth series of arches is constituted, diminishing in size the nearer they approach the intestine. From the terminal arches numerous small straight vessels arise which encircle the intestine, upon which they are distributed, ramifying thickly between its coats. The ileo-colic artery is the lowest branch given off from the concavity of the superior mesenteric artery. It descends between the layers of the mesentery to the right iliac fossa, w^here it divides into two branches. Of these, the inferior one inosculates with the lowest branches of the vasa intestini tenuis, from the convexity of Avhich branches proceed to supply the termination of the ileum, the caecum and appendix cseci, and the ileo-Cffical valve. The superior division inosculates with the colica dextra, and supplies the commencement of the colon. The colica dextra arises from about the middle of the concavity of the superior mesenteric artery, and, passing behind the peritoneum to the middle of the ascending colon, divides into two branches : a descending branch, which inoscu- lates with the ileo-colic; and an ascending branch, which anastomoses Avith the colica media. These branches form arches, from the convexity of which vessels are distributed to the ascending colon. The branches of this vessel are covered with peritoneum only on their anterior aspect. The colica media arises from the upper part of the concavity of the superior mesenteric, and, passing forwards between the layers of the transverse meso-colon, divides into two branches : the one on the right side inosculating with the colica dextra; that on the left side with the colica sinistra, a branch of the inferior mesenteric. From the arches formed by their inosculation, branches are distributed to the transverse colon. The branches of this vessel lie between two layers of peritoneum. Infeeioe Mesenteric Aeteey (fig. 371) In order to expose this vessel, draw the small intestines and mesentery over to the right side of the abdomen, raise the transverse colon towards the thorax, and divide the peritoneimi covering the left side of the aorta. The Inferior Mesenteric Artery supplies the descending and sigmoid flexure of the colon, and the greater part of the rectum. It is smaller than the superior mesenteric; and arises from the left side of the aorta, between one and two inches above its division into the common iliacs. It passes downwards to the left iliac fossa, and then descends, between the layers of the meso-rectum, into the pelvis, under the name of the sujjerior hceinorrhoidal artery. It lies at first in close relation with the left side of the aorta, and then passes as the superior haemor- rhoidal in front of the left common iliac artery. Its branches are, the Colica Sinistra. Sigmoid. Superior Haemorrhoidal. The colica sinistra passes behind the peritoneum, in front of the left kidney, to reach the descending colon, and divides into two branches: an ascending branch, which inosculates with the colica media; and a descending branch, which anastomoses with the sigmoid artery. From the arches formed by these inoscula- tions, branches are distributed to the descending colon. The sigmoid artery runs obliquely downwards across the Psoas muscle to the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and divides into branches which supply that part of the intestine ; anastomosing, above, with the coHca sinistra; and below, with the superior haemorrhoidal artery. This vessel is sometimes replaced by three or four small branches. The superior haemorrhoidal artery, the continuation of the inferior mesenteric, descends into the pelvis between the layers of the meso-rectum, crossing, in its