ORGANS OF DIGESTION 900 there is a cleft between two viscera a process of peritoneum derived from the part of the sac in contact with the viscera is tucked in between them, so as to cover the adjacent surfaces of the two viscera and separate them from each other, and at the same time, by becoming adherent to the viscera, form an investment for them. Thus in fig. 523 such a diverticulum or process may be seen tucked in between the under surface of the liver and the upper surface of the stomach, and extending between the two as far backwards as the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct, which it covers on their anterior surfaces, forming the anterior layer of what is termed the lesser omentum. Another diverticulum or process is tucked in round the hepatic artery, as it passes forwards and upwards to the liver, and afterwards expands into a large sac or bag, which covers the posterior surface of the liver and stomach, and the upper part of the posterior wall of the abdomen, separating these structures from each other. This large cul-de-sac of peritoneum is called the lesser cavity of the peritoneuni, but is only a part of the general cavity differentiated from it by the constriction produced at the situation of the hepatic artery. In this respect the peritoneum may be compared to an hourglass with two unequal globes : the smaller one constituting the lesser cavity of the peritoneum; the larger one the greater cavity; and the constriction where the two globes communicate corre- sponding to the constriction in the peritoneum where it hooks round the hepatic artery. This constriction is called the foramen of Winslow. Between the transverse fissure of the liver and the lesser curvature of the stomach there is thus a double layer of peritoneum : the anterior layer being part of the greater bag of the peritoneum, where it is tucked in between the liver and the stomach from the front; while the posterior layer is part of the lesser bag of the peritoneum where it is tucked in round the hepatic artery. These two layers constitute the lesser omentum. Between the two layers are situated the hepatic artery, the portal vein, and the hepatic duct. A process of this lesser bag of the peritoneum is pushed backwards and upwards behind the liver, extending as far as the under surface of the Diaphragm, the posterior part of which it covers. At its extremity this process is in contact with a process of the greater bag of the peritoneum, which is pushed in from the front, in the cleft between the upper surface of the liver and the under surface of the Diaphragm. Where these two layers are in contact (passing down from the Diaphragm to the liver) they form some of the ligaments of the liver, thus supporting and holding it in position. Another process of this lesser bag is pushed downwards between the stomach and the transverse colon and forms the two inner of the four layers of the great omentum. Thus the lesser cavity of the peritoneum is seen to be a complete sac or bag, separating the back and part of the under surface of the liver, the posterior wall of the stomach, and the upper surface of the transverse colon from the back part of the under surface of the Diaphragm and the upper part of the posterior wall of the abdomen. The greater cavity of the peritoneum separates the anterior surfaces of the viscera from the front wall of the abdomen ; so that in our comparison of the two cavities to an hourglass it must be borne in mind that they are not in the same straight line as the two globes of the hourglass, but that, at the point of constriction, the smaller cavity is bent round the hepatic artery, so as to lie behind the greater cavity. The greater sac of the peritoneum is placed in front of the viscera, one layer being in contact with them, the other lining the inner surface of the anterior wall of the abdomen. The layer which is in relation with the viscera sends backwards diverticula which pass between the various organs, and in certain places comes in contact with the peritoneum forming the lesser bag, in the manner described above. Thus we have one of these diverticula sent backwards between the liver and Dia- phragm, covering the anterior part of the under surface of the Diaphragm, until it meets the peritoneum of the lesser cavity, and covering the upper surface of the liver as far backwards as the ligaments. The extremity of this diverticulum is in