SCAPULA 215 the surfaces between them to the fleshy fibres, of the Subscapularis muscle. The anterior third of the fossa, which is smooth, is covered by, but does not afford attachment to, the fibres of this muscle. The ventei* is separated from the posterior border by a smooth, triangular margin at the superior and inferior angles, and in the interval between these by a narrow edge which is often deficient. This marginal surface afibrds attachment throughout its entire extent to the Serratus magnus muscle. The subscapular fossa presents a transverse depression at its upper part, where the bone appears to be bent on itself, forming a consider- able angle, called the subscapular angle, thus giving greater strength to the body of the bone from its arched form ; while the summit of the arch serves to support the spine and acromion process. It is in this situation that the fossa is deepest ; so that the thickest part of the Subscapularis muscle lies in a line perpendicular to the plane of the glenoid cavity, and must consequently operate most effectively on the head of the humerus, which is contained in that cavity. The posterior surface, or dorsum (fig. 195), is arched from above downwards, alternately concave and convex from side to side. It is subdivided unequally into two parts by the spine ; the portion above the spine is called the supraspinous fossa, and that below it the infraspinous fossa. The supraspinous fossa, the smaller of the two, is concave, smooth, and broader at the vertebral than at the humeral extremity. It afibrds attachment by its inner two-thirds to the Supraspinatus muscle. The infraspinous fossa is much larger than the preceding ; towards its vertebral margin a shallow concavity is seen at its upper part ; its centre presents a promi- nent convexity, whilst towards the axillary border is a deep groove which runs from the upper towards the lower part. The inner two-thirds of this surface affords attachment to the Infraspinatus muscle ; the outer third is only covered by it, without giving origin to its fibres. This surface is separated from the axillary border by an elevated ridge, which runs from the lower part of the glenoid cavity, downwards and backwards to the posterior border, about an inch above the inferior angle. The ridge serves for the attachment of a strong aponeurosis, which sepa- rates the Infraspinatus from the two Teres muscles. The surface of bone between this line and the axillary border is narrow in the upper two-thirds of its extent, and traversed near its centre by a groove for the passage of the dorsalis scapulae vessels; it afibrds attachment to the Teres minor. Its lower third presents a broader, somewhat triangular surface, which gives origin to the Teres major, and over which the Latissimus dorsi glides ; sometimes the latter muscle takes origin by a few fibres from this part. The broad and narrow portions of bone above alluded to are separated by an oblique line, which runs from the axillary border, domiwards and backwards, to meet the elevated ridge : to it is attached the aponeurosis separating the two Teres muscles from each other. The Spine is a prominent plate of bone, which crosses obliquely the inner four-fifths of the dorsum of the scapula at its upper part, and separates the supra- from the infra-spinous fossa: it commences at the vertebral border by a smooth, triangular surface, over which the Trapezius glides, separated from the bone by a bursa ; and, gradually becoming more elevated as it passes forwards, terminates in the acromion process, which overhangs the shoulder-joint. The spine is triangular, and flattened from above downwards, its apex corresponding to the posterior border, its base (which is directed outwards) to the neck of the scapula. It presents two surfaces and three borders. Its superior surface is concave, assists in forming the supraspinous fossa, and affords attachment to part of the Supra- spinatus muscle. Its inferior surface forms part of the infraspinous fossa, gives origin to part of the Infraspinatus muscle, and presents near its centre the orifice of a nutrient canal. Of the three borders, the anterior is attached to the dorsum of the bone ; the posterior, or crest of the spine, is broad, and presents two lips and an intervening rough interval. To the superior lip is attached the Trapezius, to the extent shown in the figure. A rough tubercle is generally seen occupying that portion of the spine which receives the insertion of the middle and inferior