OF THE VEINS THE Veins are the vessels which serve to return the blood from the capillaries of the different parts of the body to the heart. They consist of two distinct sets of vessels, the pulmonary and systemic. The Pulmonary Ycins are concerned in the circulation in the lungs. Unlike other vessels of this kind, they contain arterial blood, which they return from the lungs to the left auricle of the heart. The Systemic Veins are concerned in the general circulation ; they return the venous blood from the body generally to the right auricle of the heart. The Portal Vein, an appendage to the systemic venous system, is confined to the abdominal cavity, returning the venous blood from the viscera of digestion, and carrying it to the liver by a single trunk of large size, the vena porter. This vessel ramifies in the substance of the liver and breaks up into a minute network of capillaries. These capillaries then re-collect to form the hepatic veins, by which the blood is conveyed to the inferior vena cava. The veins, like the arteries, are found in nearly every tissue of the body. They commence by minute plexuses which receive the blood from the capillaries. The branches which have their commencement in these plexuses unite together into trunks, and these, in their passage towards the heart, constantly increase in size as they receive tributaries, or join other veins. The veins are larger and altogether more numerous than the arteries; hence, the entire capacity of the venous system is much greater than that of the arterial; the pulmonary veins excepted, which do not exceed in capacity the pulmonary arteries. From the combined area of the smaller venous branches being greater than the main trunks, it results that the venous system represents a cone, the summit of which corresponds to the heart, its base to the circumference of the body. In form, the veins are not perfectly cylindrical like the arteries, their walls being collapsed when empty, and the uniformity of their surface being interrupted at intervals by slight constrictions, which indicate the existence of valves in their interior. They usually retain, however, the same calibre as long as they receive no branches. The veins communicate very freely with one another, especially in certain regions of the body ; and this communication exists between the larger trunks as well as between the smaller branches. Thus, in the cavity of the cranium, and between the veins of the neck, where obstruction would be attended with imminent danger to the cerebral venous system, we find that the sinuses and larger veins have large and very frequent anastomoses. The same free communication exists between the veins throughout the whole extent of the spinal canal, and between the veins composing the various venous plexuses in the abdomen and pelvis, as the spermatic, uterine, vesical, and prostatic. The systemic veins are subdivided into three sets : superficial, deep, and sinuses. The Superficial or Cutaneous Veins are found between the layers of the super- ficial fascia, immediately beneath the integument ; they return the blood from these structures, and communicate with the deep veins by perforating the deep fascia.