20 GENERAL ANATOMY communicate with the lymphatics of the perichondrium, and thus the structure is permeated with a current of nutritious fluid. The articular cartilages, the temporary cartilages, and the costal cartilages are all of the hyaline variety. They present minute differences in the size and shape of their cells and in the arrangement of their matrix. In the articular cartilages, which show no tendency to ossification, the matrix is finely granular under a high power ; the cells and nuclei are small and are disposed parallel to the surface in the superficial part, while nearer to the bone they become vertical. Articular cartilages have a tendency to split in a vertical direction, probably from some peculiarity in the intimate structure or arrangement of the component parts of the matrix. In disease this tendency to a fibrous splitting becomes very manifest. Articular cartilage is not covered by perichondrium, at least on its free surface, where it is exposed to friction, though a layer of connective tissue can be traced in the adult over a small part of its circumference continuous with that of the synovial mem- brane, and here the cartilage-cells are more or less branched and pass insensibly into the branched connective-tissue corpuscles of the synovial membrane. Articular cartilage forms a thin incrustation upon the joint-surfaces of the bones, and its elasticity enables it to break the force of any concussion, whilst its smoothness aftbrds ease and freedom of movement. It varies in thickness accord- ing to the shape of the bone on which it lies ; where this is convex the cartilage is thickest at the centre, where the greatest pressure is received ; and the reverse is the case on the concave surfaces of the bones. Articular cartilage appears to imbibe its nutriment partly from the vessels of the neighbouring synovial membrane, partly from those of the bone upon which it is implanted. Mr. Toynbee has shown that the minute vessels of the cancellous tissue as they approach the articular lamella dilate and form arches, and then return into the substance of the bone. In the costal cartilages the cells and nuclei are large, and the matrix has a tendency to fibrous striation, especially in old age (fig. 23). These cartilages are also very prone to ossify. In the Fig -Costal cartilaofe fi'oni man seventy-six years of age, showing the development of fibrous structure in the matrix. In several portions of the specimen two or three generations of cells are seen enclosed in a parent cell-wall. High power. thickest parts of the costal cartilages a few large vascular channels may be detected. This appears at first sight an exception to the statement that cartilage is a non-vascular tissue, but is not so really, for the vessels give no branches to the cartilage-substance itself, and the channels may rather be looked upon as involutions of the peri- chondrium. The ensiform cartilage may be regarded as one of the costal cartilages, and the cartilages of the nose and of the larynx and trachea resemble them in microscopical cha- racters, except the epiglottis and cor- nicula laryngis, which are of the reti- cular variety. The hyaline cartilages, especially in adult and advanced life, are prone to calcify—that is to say, to have their matrix permeated by the salts of lime without any appearance of true bone. The process of calcification occurs also and still more frequently, according to Rollett, in such cartilages as those of the trachea, which are prone afterwards to conversion into true bone. White fibro-cartilage consists of a mixture of white fibrous tissue and cartila- ginous tissue in various proportions ; it is to the first of these two constituents that its flexibility and toughness are chiefly owing, and to the latter its elasticity. When examined under the microscope it is found to be made up of fibrous con-