CRANIAL NERVES 752 SUBMAXILLAEY GaNGLION (fig. 444) The submaxillary ganglion is of small size, fusiform in shape, and situated above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, near the posterior border of the Mylo-hyoid muscle, being connected by filaments with the lower border of the lingual (gustatory) nerve. Brandies of communication.—This ganglion is connected with the lingual (gustatory) nerve by a few filaments which join it separately, at its fore and back part. It also receives a branch from the chorda tympani, by which it communicates with the facial; and communicates with the sympathetic by filaments from the sympathetic plexus around the facial artery. Branches of distribution.—These are five or six in number ; they arise from the lower part of the ganglion, and supply the mucous membrane of the mouth and Wharton's duct, some being lost in the submaxillary gland. The branch of communication from the lingual to the fore part of the ganglion is by some regarded as a branch of distribution, by which filaments of the chorda tympani pass from the ganglion to the nerve, and by it are conveyed to the sublingual gland and the tongue. Surface Marking.—It will be seen from the above description that the three terminal branches of the three divisions of the fifth nerve emerge from foramina in the bones of the skull and face on to the face : the terminal branch of the first division emerging through the supra-orbital foramen ; that of the second tlirough the infra-orbital foramen; and the third through the mental foramen. The supra-orbital foramen is situated at the junction of tlie internal and middle third of the supra-orbital arch between the internal and external angular processes. If a straight line is drawn from this point to the lower border of the inferior maxillary bone, so that it passes between the two bicuspid teeth in both jaws, it will pass over the infra-orbital and mental foramina; the former being situated about one centimetre (| of an inch) below the margin of the orbit, and the latter varying in position according to the age of the individual. In the adult it is midway between the upper and lower borders of the inferior maxillary bone ; in the child it is nearer the lower border, and in the edentulous jaw of old age it is close to the upper margin. Surgical Anatomy.—The fifth nerve may be affected in its entirety; or its sensory or motor root may be affected ; or one of its primary main divisions. In injury to the sensory root there is anaesthesia of the whole of the side of the face on the side of the lesion, with the exception of the skin over the parotid gland ; insensibility of the conjunctiva, followed by destructive inflammation of the cornea, partly from loss of trophic influence, and partly from the irritation produced by the presence of foreign bodies on it, which are not perceived by the patient, and therefore not expelled by the act of winking; dryness of the nose, loss to a considerable extent of the sense of taste, and diminished secretion of the lachrymal and salivaiy glands. In injury to the motor root, there is impaired action of the lower jaw, from paralysis of the muscles of mastication on the affected side. The fifth nerve is often the seat of neuralgia, and each of the three divisions has been divided, or a portion of the nerve excised, for this affection. The supra-orbital nerve may be exposed by making an incision an inch and a half in length along the supra- orbital margin below the eyebrow, which is to be drawn upwards, the centre of the incision corresponding to the supra-orbital notch. The skin and Orbicularis palpebrarum having been divided, the nerve can be easily found emerging from the notch, and lying in some loose cellular tissue. It should be drawn up by a blunt hook and divided, or, what is better, a portion of it removed. The infra-orbital nerve has been divided at its exit by an incision on the cheek; or the floor of the orbit has been exposed, the infra-orbital canal opened up, and the anterior part of the nerve resected; or the whole nerve, together with Meckel's ganglion as far back as the foramen rotundum, has been removed. This latter operation, though undoubtedly a severe proceeding, appears to have been followed by the best results. The operation is performed as follows : the superior maxillary bone is first exposed by a T-shaped incision, one limb passing along the lower margin of the orbit, the other from the centre of this vertically down the cheek to the angle of the mouth. The nerve is then found, divided, and a piece of silk tied to it as a guide. A small trephine (|-inch) is then applied to the bone, below, but including the infra-orbital foramen, and the antrum opened. The trephine is now applied to the posterior wall of the antrum, and the spheno-maxillary fossa exposed. The infra-orbital canal is now opened up from below by fine cutting-pliers or a chisel, and the nerve drawn down into the trephine hole, it being held on the stretch by means of the piece of silk; it is severed with fine curved scissors as near the foramen rotundum as possible, any branches coming off from the ganglion being also divided.* The inferior dental nerve has been divided at its exit from the foramen by an * Camochan, Amer. Journ. Med. Science, 1858, p. 136.