AETERIES 6l2 being furnished by the internal ihac, or the epigastric may be formed of two branches, one derived from the external iliac, the other from the internal iliac. Surgical Anatomy.—The deep epigastric artery follows a line drawn from the middle of Poupart's ligament towards the mnbiliciis ; but shortly after this line crosses the linea semilunaris, the direction changes, and the course of the vessel is directly upwards in the line of junction of the inner third with the outer two thirds of the Rectus muscle. It has important surgical relations, in addition to the fact that it is one of the principal means, through its anastomosis with the internal mammary, in establishing the collateral circulation after ligature of either the common or external iliac arteries. It lies close to the internal abdominal ring, and is therefore internal to an oblique inguinal hernia, but external to a direct inguinal hernia, as it emerges from the abdomen. It forms the outer boundary of Hesselbach's triangle. It is in close relationship with the spermatic cord, which lies in front of it in the inguinal canal, separated only b}^ the transversalis fascia. The vas deferens hooks round its outer side. The Deep Circumflex Iliac Artery arises from the outer side of the external iliac nearly opposite the epigastric artery. It ascends obliquely outwards behind Poupart's ligament, contained in a fibrous sheath formed by the junction of the transversalis and iliac fasciae, to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. It then runs along the inner surface of the crest of the ilium to about its middle, where it pierces the Transversalis, and runs backwards between that muscle and the Internal oblique, to anastomose with the ilio-lumbar and gluteal arteries. Opposite the anterior superior spine of the ilium it gives off a large branch, which ascends between the Internal oblique and Transversalis muscles, supplying them, and anastomosing with the lumbar and epigastric arteries. ARTERIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY Femoral Aeteey (fig. 376) The femoral artery is the continuation of the external iliac. It commences immediately behind Poupart's ligament, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, and, passing down the fore part and inner side of the thigh, terminates at the opening in the Adductor magnus, at the junction of the middle wdth the lower third of the thigh, where it becomes the popliteal artery. The vessel, at the upper part of the thigh, lies a little internal to the head of the femur; in the lower part of its course, on the inner side of the shaft of the bone, and between these two parts, the vessel is far away from the bone. In the upper third of the thigh it is contained in a triangular space, called Scarpa's triangle. In the middle third of the thigh, it is contained in an aponeurotic canal, called Hunter's canal. Scarpa's Triangle.—Scarpa's triangle corresponds to the depression seen immediately below the fold of the groin. It is a triangular space, the apex of which is directed downwards, and the sides formed externally by the Sartorius, internally by the Adductor longus, and above by Poupart's ligament. The floor of the space is formed from without inwards by the Iliacus, Psoas, Pectineus, a small part of the Adductor brevis and the Adductor longus muscles; and it is divided into two nearly equal parts by the femoral vessels, which extend from the middle of its base to its apex : the artery giving off in this situation its cutaneous and profunda branches, the vein receiving the deep femoral and internal saphenous. On the outer side of the femoral artery is the anterior crural nerve dividing into its branches. Besides the vessels and nerves, this space contains some fat and lymphatics. Hunter's Canal.—This is the aponeurotic space in the middle third of the thigh, extending from the apex of Scarpa's triangle to the femoral opening in the Adductor magnus muscle. It is bounded, externally, by the Vastus internus ; internally, by the Adductor longus and magnus muscles ; and covered in by a strong aponeurosis which extends transversely from the Vastus internus, across the femoral vessels to the Adductor longus and magnus muscles ; lying on which aponeurosis is the Sartorius muscle. It contains the femoral artery and vein enclosed in their own sheath of areolar tissue, the vein being behind and on the outer side of the artery and the internal or long saphenous nerve lying on the outer side of the vessels.