GENERAL ANATOMY lOO whilst the portion between them breaks up into a capillary plexus, which ramifies in the now^ partially developed liver together wdth capillary vessels from the upper venous ring. Of these latter, some pass towards the heart and join the sinus. They have received the name of the vencB hejmticcB revehentes, and eventually become the hepatic veins ; others ramify in the liver, under the name of vencB Jieijaticm advehentes, and become the branches of the portal vein. The lower vascular ring receives veins from the stomach and intestines, and becomes the commencement of the portal vein. I The umbilical veins at first open into the sinus venosus near to the vitelline veins. Subsequently this communication becomes interrupted by the development i of a vascular network ; the vein on the right side atrophies and disappears, whilst [ that on the left side greatly enlarges, as the placental circulation becomes established, j and communicates with the upper venous circle of the vitelline circulation. Finally a branch is formed between the upper venous circle and the right hepatic veins, \ which becomes the ductus venosus, and by it most of the blood from the umbilical i vein is carried direct to the heart. I Fig. ioo.—Diagrams illustrating the development of the great veins. The first figure shows the vertebral veins emptying into the heart by two lateral trunks, 'the ducts of Cuvier.' The second figure shows the formation of the iliac and subclavian veins, a. Inferior vena cava. h. Left innominate vein. The third figure shows the vertebral veins much diminished in size and the duct of Cuvier on the left side, gradually disappearing, c. Vena azygos minor. The fourth figure shows the adult condition of the venous system. I. Eight auricle of heart. 2. Vena cava superior. 3. Jugular veins. 4. Subclavian veins. 5. Vena cava inferior. , 6. Iliac veins. 7. Lumbar veins. 8. Vena azygos major. 9. Vena azygos minor. 10. Superior intercostal vein. ( After Daltou. > The Parietal Veins.—The first appearance of a parietal system consists in the appearance of two short transverse veins (the ducts of Cuvier), which open on either side of the auricular portion of the heart. Each of these ducts is formed by an ascending and descending vein. The ascending veins return the blood from the parietes of the trunk and the Wolffian bodies, and are called cardinal veins. | The two descending ones return the blood (fig. loo) from the head, and are called 'primitive jugular veins. As the kidneys are developed, the veins conveying the blood from them unite together to form a single trunk which passes up the abdomen | behind the intestines, and, joining the common trunk of the vitelline and umbihcal veins above the point of entrance of the venae revehentes, constitutes the inferior j vena cava. Two small veins receiving branches from the lower extremity unite to [ form the lower part of the inferior vena cava, below the point of entrance of the veins | from the kidneys. These are the primitive iliac veins, and in their course upwards j they cross the cardinal veins and communicate with them. The part of the iliac j vein betAveen this point of communication and their junction with one another j