4i6 MUSCLES AND FASCIA the second and third ; and below, between the eleventh and twelfth. In the lumbar region, there are four paks of these muscles in the intervals between the five lumbar vertebrae. There is also occasionally one in the interspinous space, between the last dorsal and first lumbar, and between the fifth lumbar and the sacrum. The Extensor coccygis is a slender muscular fasciculus, occasionally present, which extends over the lower part of the posterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx. It arises by tendinous fibres from the last bone of the sacrum, or first piece of the coccyx, and passes downwards to be inserted into the lower part of the coccyx. It is a rudiment of the Extensor muscle of the caudal vertebrae which exists in some animals. The Intertransversales are small muscles placed between the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebrae. In the cervical region they are most developed, consisting of rounded muscular and tendinous fasciculi, which are placed in pairs, passing between the tw^o anterior and the two posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of two contiguous vertebrae, separated from one another by the anterior division of the cervical nerve, which lies in the groove between them. In this region there are seven pairs of these muscles, the first pair being between the atlas and axis, and the last pair between the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae. In the dorsal region they are least developed, consisting chiefly of rounded tendinous cords in the intertransverse spaces of the upper dorsal vertebrae ; but between the transverse processes of the lower three dorsal vertebrae, and between the transverse processes of the last dorsal and the first lumbar, they are muscular in structure. In the lumbar region they are four in number, and consist of a single muscular layer, which occupies the entire interspace between the transverse processes of the lower lumbar vertebra ; whilst those between the transverse processes of the upper lumbar are not attached to more than half the breadth of the process. The Rectus capitis posticus major arises by a pointed tendinous origin from the spinous process of the axis, and, becoming broader as it ascends, is inserted into the inferior curved line of the occipital bone and the surface of bone imme- diately below it. As the muscles of the two sides pass upwards and outwards, they leave between them a triangular space, in which are seen the Recti capitis postici minores muscles. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Complexus ; and, at its insertion, with the Superior oblique. By its deep surface, Avith part of the Eectus capitis posticus minor, the posterior arch of the atlas, the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament, and part of the occipital bone. The Eectus capitis posticus minor, the smallest of the four muscles in this region, is of a triangular shape; it arises by a narrow pointed tendon from the tubercle on the posterior arch of the atlas, and, becoming broader as it ascends, is inserted into the rough surface beneath the inferior curved line, nearly as far as the foramen magnum, nearer to the middle line than the preceding. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Complexus and the Rectus capitis posticus major. By its deep sttrface, with the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. The Obliquus capitis inferior, the larger of the two Oblique muscles, arises from the apex of the spinous process of the axis, and passes almost horizontally outwards, to be inserted into the lower and back part of the transverse process of the atlas. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Complexus and with the posterior division of the second cervical nerve which crosses it. By its deep surface, with the vertebral artery, and posterior atlanto-axial ligament. The Obliquus capitis superior, narrow below, wide and expanded above, arises by tendinous fibres from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, joining with the insertion of the preceding, and, passing obliquely upwards and inwards, is inserted into the occipital bone, between the two curved lines, external to the Complexus.