ARTICULATIONS 340 compact fibres, which arise from different iDoints of the circmiiference of the acetabukim, and interlace with each other at very acute angles. The Transverse Ligament is in reality a portion of the cotyloid ligament, though differing from it in having no nests of cartilage cells amongst its fibres. It consists of strong, flattened fibres, w^hich cross the notch at the lower part of the acetabulum, and convert it into a foramen. Thus an interval is left beneath the ligament for the passage of nutrient vessels to the joint. The Synovial Membrane is very extensive. Commencing at the margin of the cartilaginous surface of the head of the femur, it covers all that portion of the neck which is contained within the joint; from the neck it is reflected on the internal surface of the capsular ligament, covers both surfaces of the cotyloid ligament and the mass of fat contained in the depression at the bottom of the acetabulum, and Fig. 256.—Eelation of muscles to the capsule of the hip-joint. From a drawing by Mr. F. A. Barton. is prolonged in the form of a tubular sheath around the ligamentum teres, as far as the head of the femur. The muscles in relation with the joint are, in front, the Psoas and Iliacus, separated from the capsular ligament by a synovial bursa ; above, the reflected head of the Rectus and Gluteus minimus, the latter being closely adherent to the capsule ; internally, the Obturator externus and Pectineus ; behind, the Pyriformis, Gemellus superior, Obturator internus. Gemellus inferior. Obturator externus, and Quadratus femoris (fig. 256). The arteries supplying the joint are derived from the obturator, sciatic, internal circumflex, and gluteal. The nerves are articular branches from the sacral plexus, great sciatic, obtu- rator, accessory obturator, and a filament from the branch of the anterior crural supplying the Rectus. Actions.—The movements of the hip, like those of all enarthrodial joints, are very extensive ; they are, flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. The hip-joint presents a very striking contrast to the other great enarthrodial