751 FIFTH. OTIC GANGLION supply the skin of the chin, and another (sometimes two) ascends to supply the skin and mucous membrane of the lower lip. These branches communicate freely with the facial nerve. Two small ganglia are connected with the inferior maxillary nerve : the otic with the trunk of the nerve ; and the submaxillary with its lingual branch. Otic Ganglion (fig. 446) The Otic Ganglion {ArnolcVs) is a small, oval-shaped, flattened ganglion of a reddish-grey colour, situated immediately below the foramen ovale, on the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, and round the origin of the internal ptery- goid nerve. It is in relation, externally, with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve, at the point where the motor root joins the sensory portion; internally, with the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, and the origin of the Tensor palati muscle ; hehmd it is the middle meningeal artery. Branches of communication.—This ganglion is connected with the internal pterygoid branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, by two or three short, delicate filaments. From this it may obtain a motor root, and possibly also a sensory root, as these filaments from the nerve to the Internal pterygoid may contain sensory Fig. 446.—The otic ganglion and its branches. fibres. It communicates with the glosso-pharyngeal and facial nerves, through the small superficial petrosal nerve continued from the tympanic plexus (page 762), and through this communication it probably receives its sensory root from the glosso-pharyngeal and its motor root from the facial; its communication with the sympathetic is effected by a filament from the plexus surrounding the middle meningeal artery. The ganglion also communicates with the auriculo-temporal nerve. This is probably a branch from the glosso-pharyngeal which passes to the ganglion, and through it and the auriculo-temporal nerve to the parotid gland. Its branches of distribution are, a filament to the Tensor tympani, and one to the Tensor palati. The former passes backwards, on the outer side of the Eustachian tube ; the latter arises from the ganglion, near the origin of the internal pterygoid nerve, and passes forwards. The fibres of these nerves are, however, mainly derived from the nerve to the Internal pterygoid muscle. It also gives off a small communicating branch to the chorda tympani.