THE SKELETON 146 are very variable. It is not always present; sometimes it is situated in the occipital bone, or in the suture between the temporal and the occipital. The mastoid portion is continued below into a conical projection, the mastoid process, the size and form of which vary somewhat. This process serves for the attachment of the Sterno-mastoid, Splenius capitis, and Trachelo-mastoid muscles. On the inner side of the mastoid process is a deep groove, the digastric fossa, for the attach- ment of the Digastric muscle; and, running parallel with it, but more internal, the occipital groove, which lodges the occipital artery. The internal surface of the mastoid portion presents a deep, curved groove, the fossa sigmoidea, which lodges part of the lateral sinus ; and into it may be seen opening the mastoid foramen. A section of the mastoid process shows it to be hollowed out into a number of cellular spaces, communicating with each other, called the mastoid cells ; they open by a single or double orifice into the back of the tympanum, are lined by a prolongation of its lining membrane, and probably form some secondary part Fig. 139.—Left temporal bone. Inner surface. of the organ of hearing. The spaces at the upper and front part of the bone near the opening into the tympanum are large and irregular, and contain air. They diminish in size towwds the lower part of the bone ; those situated at the apex of the mastoid process being quite small and usually containing marrow (fig. 140). The mastoid cells, like the other sinuses of the cranium, are not developed until after puberty; hence the prominence of this process in the adult. In consequence of the communication which exists between the tj-nqianuni and mastoid cells, inflammation of the lining membrane of the former cavity may easily travel back- wards to that of the mastoid cells, leading to caries and necrosis of their walls and the risk of transference of the inflammation to the lateral sinus or encephalon. Borders.—The superior border of the mastoid portion is broad and rough, its serrated edge sloping outwards, for articulation with the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. The posterior border, also uneven and serrated, articulates with the inferior border of the occipital bone between its lateral angle and jugular process.