ARTEEIES 524 lung, as in birds, and passes down on the right side of the spine. In such cases all the viscera of the thoracic and abdominal cavities are transposed. Less frequently, the aorta, after arching over the root of the right lung, is directed to its usual position on the left side of the spine, this peculiarity not being accompanied by any transposition of the viscera. In Conformation.—The aorta occasionally divides, as in some quadrupeds, into an ascending and a descending trunk, the former of which is directed vertically upwards, and .subdivides into three branches, to supply the head and upper extremities. Sometimes the aorta subdivides soon after its origin into two branches, which soon reunite. In one of these cases, the oesophagus and trachea were found to pass through the interval left by their division ; this is the normal condition of the vessel in the reptilia. Surgical Anatomy.—Of all the vessels of the arterial system, the aorta, and more especially its arch, is most frequently the seat of disease ; hence it is important to consider some of the consequences that may ensue from aneurism of this part. It will be remembered that the ascending aorta is contained in the pericardium, just behind the sternum, being crossed at its commencement by the pulmonary artery and right auricular appendix, and having the root of the right lung behind, the vena cava on the right side, and the pulmonary artery and left auricle on the left side. Aneurism of the ascending aorta, in the situation of the aortic sinuses, in the great Fig 346.—Kelation of great vessels at base of heart, seen from above. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.) 'Right/ Jttf.dhtfroul . Left uinom. ueZ^T^ '.>->^ Zefh stvhclouj. Left com^m.on^ ocoyotvd. majority of cases, affects the right anterior sinus; this is mainly owing to the fact that the regurgitation of blood upon the sinuses takes place chiefly on the right anterior aspect of the vessel. As the aneurismal sac enlarges, it may compress any or all of the structures in immediate proximity with it, but chiefly projects towards the right anterior side ; and, consequently, interferes mainly with those structures that have a corresponding relation with the vessel. In the majority of cases, it bursts into the cavity of the pericardium, the patient suddenly drops down dead, and, upon a post-mortem examination, the pericardial sac is found full of blood; or it may compress the right auricle, or the pulmonary artery, and adjoining part of the right ventricle, and open into one or the other of these parts, or may press upon the superior vena cava. Aneurism of the ascending aorta, originating above the sinuses, most frequently impli- cates the right anterior wall of the vessel; this is probably mainly owing to the blood being impelled against this part. The direction of the aneurism is also chiefly towards the right of the median line. If it attains a large size and projects forwards, it may absorb the sternum and the cartilages of the ribs, usually on the right side, and appear as a pulsating tumour on the front of the chest, just below the manubrium ; or it may burst into the pericardium, or may compress, or open into the right lung, the trachea, bronchi, or cesophagus. Regarding the transverse aorta, the student is reminded that the vessel lies on the trachea,^ the oesophagus, and thoracic duct; that the recurrent laryngeal nerve winds aroimd it; and that from its upper part are given off three large trunks, which supply the head, neck, and ujDper extremities. Now, an aneurismal tumour taking origin from the posterior part or right aspect of the vessel, its most usual site, may press upon the trachea, impede the breathing, or produce cough, haemoptysis, or stridulous breathing, or it may ultimately burst into that tube, producing fatal hemorrhage. Again, its pressure on the laryngeal nerves may give rise to symptoms which so accurately resemble those of