8i THE CHOKION pregnancy, though it no doubt serves other purposes also. It contams about one per cent, of sohd matter, chiefly albumen, with traces of urea, the latter probably derived from the urinary secretion of the foetus. The Chorion.—The chorion is rather a complex membrane made up essentially of two parts :—first, of the membranes of the ovum external to the pleuro- peritoneal cavity—that is to say, of the vitelline membrane and false amnion ; and, secondly, of a diverticulum of those layers of the original blastodermic membrane which are internal to the pleuro-peritoneal cavity. This diverticulum is called the alla7itois. 1. The portion of the chorion lohich is formed from the membranes of the ovum external to the pleuro-peritoneal cavity. We have seen that in the formation of the amnion we had two layers formed out of a reduplication of the epiblast and outer layer of the mesoblast : one—the ti'-ue amnion—which surrounds the embryo and encloses a cavity between it and the embryo—the amniotic cavity; and secondly, the false amnion, which lies in apposition with the internal surface of the vitelline membrane, and is continuous at its periphery with that part of the original epiblast and somatopleural layer of the mesoblast which did not enter into the formation of the area germinativa; and that between these two layers there is a space (which must not be confounded with the amniotic cavity) which com- municates with the pleuro-peritoneal space, and, according to Dalton, contains a semi-fluid, gelatinous material. The external part of the chorion is formed out of the vitelline membrane with the false amnion and its peripheral continuation with the external layers of the blastoderm ; but the exact share which the three layers take in its formation is at present uncertain. By some embryologists it is believed that the vitelline membrane during the rapid growth of the ovum becomes attenu- _ ated, and finally lost; by others it is thought that it combines with the other layers to form the chorion. But, whichever is true, at a very early period of gestation cellular processes or fringes grow outwards from the external surface of the vitelline membrane, or, if this has disappeared, from the outer layer of the blastoderm, which has been likened by Dalton to tufts of seaweed. They are at first destitute of vessels, and are of simple cellular structure. These fringes, or villi, as they subsequently become, cover at first the whole surface of the chorion ; but as devel- opment progresses and the placenta, by which the extent of the attachment of the ovum to the uterine walls is to be limited, is about to be formed, the villi are not furthet developed over the rest of the chorion, but are confined to that part only which is to form the foetal portion of the placenta. They may, however, be recog- nised all over the chorion, as abortive processes, during the whole of foetal gestation. 2. The Allantois.—This structure is derived from the layers of the blastodermic membrane which are internal to the pleuro-peritoneal space, being formed by the projection of a hollow bud of that part of the hypoblast and splanchnopleure which is contained in the body-cavity of the embryo, and which, as we have before stated, is intended for the formation of the intestinal canal (fig. 83, u). It extends into and through the pleuro-peritoneal space, into the cavity between the true and false amnion, until it meets the latter, over the internal surface of which it spreads. In this diverticulum two arteries and two veins, the allantoic vessels, are developed. The arteries are in the first instance branches of the two primary divisions of the abdominal aorta, but subsequently, when the two aortas coalesce, they become branches of the hypogastric arteries. The veins join the veins of the yolk-sac, and form the umbilical veins. When the allantois meets the chorion, branches from these allantoic vessels permeate the cellular tufts or fringes which have been described as growing from the outer surface of the false amnion and convert them into villi, and these eventually form the foetal portion of the placenta* (fig. 85, c). The allantois is the chief agent of the early circulation, for it is the duct or tract along which the vessels extend which convey the blood of the embryo to the foetal * In some animals, some of the vessels of the villi of the chorion are derived from the yolk-sac, that is from the omphalo-mesenteric vessels. G