OF THE BACK 409 Relations.—By its suijerficiaTJ^vosterioi') surface, with the Latissimus dorsi. By its dee]j {anterior) surface, with the Serratus posticus superior, posterior scapular artery, the vertebral aponeurosis which separates it from the prolongations from the Erector spin^, the Intercostal muscles, and ribs. Nerves.—^The Ehomboid muscles are supplied by branches from the anterior division of the fifth cervical nerve; the Levator anguli scapulae by the anterior division of the third and fourth cervical nerves. Actions.—The movements effected by the preceding piuscles are numerous, as may be conceived from their extensive attachment. The whole of the Trapezius when in action retracts the scapula and rotates it on a sagittal axis; if the head is fixed, the upper part of the Trapezius will elevate the point of the shoulder, as in supporting weights ; when the louver fibres are brought into action they assist in depressing the bone. If the scapula is prevented from gliding on the chest, the middle and lower fibres of the muscle cause it to rotate, so that the acromion is raised. If the shoulders are fixed, both Trapezii, acting together, will draw the head directly backwards ; or if only one acts, the head is drawn to the corresponding side. The Latissimus dorsi, when it acts upon the humerus, draws it backwards, adducts, and at the same time rotates it inwards. It is the muscle which is principally employed in giving a downward blow, as in felling a tree or in sabre practice. If the arm is fixed, the muscle may act in various ways upon the trunk : thus, it may raise the lower ribs and assist in forcible inspiration; or, if both arms are fixed, the two muscles may assist the Abdominal and great Pectoral muscles in suspending and drawing the whole trunk forwards, as in climbing or walking on crutches. The Levator angtili scapulcB raises the superior angle of the scapula, assisting the Trapezius in bearing weights or in shrugging the shoulders. If the shoulder be fixed, the Levator anguli scapulaB inclines the neck to the corresponding side and rotates it in the same direction. The Ehomboid muscles carry the inferior angle backwards and upwards, thus producing a slight rotation of the scapula upon the side of the chest, the Ehomboideus major acting especially on the lower angle of the scapula, through the tendinous arch by which it is inserted. The Ehomboid muscles acting together with the middle and inferior fibres of the Trapezius will draw the scapiila directly backwards towards the spine. Dissection.—To bring into view the third layer of muscles, remove the whole of the second, together with the Latissimus dorsi; by cutting through the Levator anguli scapulae and Ehomboid muscles near their insertion, and reflecting them upwards, and by dividing the Latissimus dorsi in the middle by a vertical incision carried from its upper to its lower part, and reflecting the two halves of the muscle. The Serratus posticus superior is a thin, flat, quadrilateral muscle, situated at the upper and back part of the thorax. It arises by a thin and broad aponeurosis from the ligamentum nuchse, and from the spinous processes of the last cervical and two or three upper dorsal vertebrae and from the supraspinous ligament. Inclining downwards and outwards, it becomes muscular, and is inserted, by four fleshy digitations, into the upper borders of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs, a little beyond their angles. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Trapezius, Ehomboidei, and Levator anguli scapulas. By its deeiJ surface, with the Splenius, and the vertebral aponeurosis, which separates it from the prolongations of the Erector spinae, and with the Intercostal muscles and ribs. Third Layer Serratus posticus superior. Serratus posticus inferior.