THE TONGUE meet in the middle line, like the two lines of the letter V inverted. Each papilla consists of a projection of mucous membrane from ^ to wide, attached to the bottom of a cup-shaped depression of the mucous membrane ; the papilla is in shape like a truncated cone ; the smaller end being directed downwards and attached to the tongue, the broader part or base projecting on the surface and being studded with numerous small secondary papillae, which, however, are covered by a smooth layer of the epithelium. The cup-shaped depression forms a kind of fossa round the papilla, having a circular margin of about the same elevation, covered with smaller papillae. At the point of junction of the tw^o rows of pai^illae is the deep depression, the foramen ccRcum, mentioned above. The papiUcB medim (fungiformes), more numerous than the preceding, are scattered irregularly and sparingly over the dorsum of the tongue ; but are found chiefly at its sides and apex. They are easily recognised, among the other papillae, by their large size, rounded eminences, and deep red colour. They are narrow at their attachment to the tongue, but broad and rounded at their free extremities, and covered with secondary papilla. Their epithelial investment is very thin. The ijapilke minimcd (conicae or filiformes) cover the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum of the tongue. They are very minute, more or less conical or filiform in shape, and arranged in lines correspond- ing in direction with the two rows of the papillae circumvallatae ; excepting at the apex of the organ, where their direction is transverse. They have projecting from their apices numerous filiform processes, or secondary papillae, which are of a whitish tint, owing to the thickness and density of the epithelium of which they are composed, and which has here undergone a peculiar modification, the cells having become cornified and elongated into dense, im- bricated, brush-like processes. They con- tain also a number of elastic fibres, which render them firmer and more elastic than the papillae of mucous membrane generally. Simi^le iKiiyillce, similar to those of the skin, cover the whole of the mucous membrane of the tongue, as well as the larger papilla. They consist of closely set, microscopic elevations of the corium, containing a capillary loop, covered by a layer of epithelium. Structure of the papillcE.—The papillae apparently resemble in structure those of the cutis, consisting of a cone-shaped projection of connective tissue, covered with a thick layer of squamous epithelium, and contain one or more capillary loops, amongst which nerves are distributed in great abundance. If the epithelium is removed, it will be found that they are not simple elevations like the papillae of the skin, for the surface of each is studded with minute conical processes of the mucous membrane, which form secondary papillae (Todd and Bowman). In the papillse circumvallatae, the nerves are numerous and of large size; in the papillae fungi- formes, they are also numerous, and terminate in a plexiform network, from which brushlike branches proceed ; in the papillae filiformes, their mode of termi- nation is uncertain. Buried in the epidermis of the papilla circumvallatae, and in some of the fungiformes, certain peculiar bodies called taste-goblets have been described.* They are flask-like in shape, their broad base resting on the corium, * These bodies are also found in considerable numbers at the side of the base of the tongue, just in front of the anterior pillars of the fauces. Fig. 478.—Circmnvallate papillae of tongue of rabbit, showing position of taste-goblets. (Stohr.) «. Duct of gland, d. Serous gland, g. Taste-goblets. I. Primary septa, and I', secondary septa, of papilla. 71. MeduUated nerve. M. Muscular fibres.