948 OEGANS OF DIGESTION of the tissue by the rootlets of the veins, which commence much in the same way as the arteries terminate. Where a vein is about to commence the connective- tissue corpuscles of the pulp arrange themselves in rows, in such a way as to form an elongated space or sinus. They become changed in shape, being elongated and spindle-shaped, and overlap each other at their extremities. They thus form a sort of endothelial lining of the path or sinus, which is the radicle of a vein. On the outer surface of these cells are seen delicate transverse lines or markings, which are due to minute elastic fibrillse arranged in a circular manner around the sinus. Thus the channel obtains a continuous external investment, and gradually becomes converted into a small vein, which after a time presents a coat of ordinary connective tissue, lined by a layer of fusiform epithelial cells, which are continuous with the supporting cells of the pulp. The smaller veins unite to form larger ones, which do not accompany the arteries, but soon enter the trabecular sheaths of the capsule, and by their junction form from four to six branches, which emerge from the hilum, and, uniting, form the splenic vein, the largest radicle of the vena porta. The veins are remarkable for their numerous anastomoses, while the arteries hardly anastomose at all. The lymphatics originate in two ways, i.e. from the sheaths of the arteries and in the trabeculse. The former accompany the blood-vessels, the latter pass to the superficial lymphatic plexus which may be seen on the surface of the organ. The two sets communicate in the interior of the organ. They pass through the lymphatic glands at the hilum, and terminate in the thoracic duct. The nerves are derived from branches of the right and left semilunar ganglia, and from the right pneumogastric nerve. Surface Form.—The spleen is situated under cover ot the ribs of the left side, being separated from them by the Diaphragm, and above by a small portion of the lower margin of the left lung. Its position corresponds to the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. It is placed very obliquely. ' It is oblique in two directions, viz. from above downwards and outwards, and also from above downwards and forwards' (Cunningham). 'Its highest and lowest points are on a level respectively with the ninth dorsal and first lumbar spines ; its inner end is distant about an inch and a half from the median plane of the body, and its outer end about reaches the mid-axillary line' (Quain). Surgical Anatomy.—Injury of the spleen is less common than that of the liver, on account of its protected situation and connections. It may be ruptmed by direct or indirect violence; torn by a broken rib ; or injured by a punctured or gunshot wound. When the organ is enlarged, the chance of rupture is increased. The great risk is hiemorrhage, owinf? to the great vascularity of the organ, and the absence of a proper system of capillaries. The injury is not, however, necessarily fatal, and this would appear to be due, in a great measure, to the contractile power of its capsule, which narrows the wound and prevents the escape of blood. In cases where the diagnosis is clear and the symptoms indicate danger to life, laparotomy must be performed, and if the haemorrhage cannot be stayed by ordinary surgical methods the spleen must be removed. The spleen may become displaced, producing great pain from stretching of the vessels and nerves, and this may require removal of the organ. The spleen may become enormously enlarged in certain diseased conditions, such as ague, syphilis, valvular disease of the heart, or without any obtainable history of previous disease. It may also become enlarged in lymphadenoma, as a part of a general blood-disease. In these cases the tumour may sometimes fill the abdomen and extend into the pelvis, and may be mistaken for ovarian or uterine disease. The spleen is sometimes the seat of cystic tumours, especially hydatids, and of abscess. These cases require treatment by incision and drainage ; and in abscess great care must be taken, if there are no adhesions between the spleen and abdominal cavity, to prevent the escape of any of the pus into the peritoneal cavity. If possible the operation should be performed in two stages, as in abscess of the liver. Sarcoma and carcinoma are occasionally found in the spleen, but very rarely as a primary disease. Extirpation of the spleen has been performed for wounds or injuries, in floating spleen, in simple hypertrophy, and in leukaemic enlargement; but in these latter cases the operation is now regarded as unjustifiable, as every case in which it has been performed has terminated fatally. The incision is best made in the left semilunar line ; the spleen is isolated from its surroundings, and the pedicle transfixed and ligatured in two portions, before the tumour is turned out of the abdominal cavity, if this is possible, so as to avoid any traction on the pedicle, which may cause tearing of the splenic vein. In applying the ligature care must be taken not to include the tail of the pancreas, and in lifting out the organ to avoid rupturing the capsule.