SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES IN TARSAL AND METATARSAL JOINTS 361 Articulations op the Metatarsal Bones with each other The base of the first metatarsal bone is not connected with the second meta- tarsal bone by any ligaments ; in this respect it resembles the thumb. The bases of the four outer metatarsal bones are connected together by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal Ligaments consist of bands of fibrous tissue which pass transversely between the adjacent metatarsal bones. The Plantar Ligaments have a similar arrangement to those on the dorsum. The Interosseous Ligaments consist of strong transverse fibres which pass between the rough non-articular portions of the lateral surfaces. The Synovial Membrane between the second and third, and the third and fourth metatarsal bones is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. Fig. 267.—Oblique section of the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus. Showing the six synovial membranes. The synovial membrane between the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones is a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the cubo-metatarsal joint. Actions.—The movement permitted in the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones is limited to a slight gliding of the articular surfaces upon one another. The Synovial Membranes in the Tarsal and Metatarsal Joints The Synovial Membranes (fig. 267) found in the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus are six in number : one for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation ; a second for the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid and astragalo-navicular articulations; a third for the calcaneo-cuboid articulation ; and a fourth for the articulations of the navicular with the three cuneiform, the three cuneiform with each other, the external cuneiform with the cuboid, and the middle and external cuneiform with the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones, and the lateral surfaces of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones with each other; a fifth for the internal cuneiform with the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; and a sixth for the articulation of the cuboid with the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. A small synovial membrane is sometimes found between the contiguous surfaces of the navicular and cuboid bones. Nerve-supply.—The nerves supplying^the tarso-metatarsal joints are derived from the anterior tibial. The digital extremities of all the metatarsal bones are connected together by the transverse metatarsal ligament.