THE SKELETON 114 skull; the outer one is thick and tough ; the inner one thinner, denser, and more brittle, and hence termed the vitreous table. The intervening cancellous tissue is called the diploe. The flat bones are : the occipital, parietal, frontal, nasal, lachrymal, vomer, scapula, os innominatum, sternum, ribs, and patella. The Irregular or Mixed Bones are such as, from their peculiar form, cannot be grouped under either of the preceding heads. Their structure is similar to that of other bones, consisting of a layer of compact tissue externally, and of spongy cancellous tissue within. The irregular bones are : the vertebrce, sacrum, coccyx, temporal, sphenoid, ethmoid, mcdar, superior maxillary, inferior maxillary, palate, inferior turbinated, and hyoid. Surfaces of Bones.—If the surface of any bone is examined, certain eminences and depressions are seen, to which descriptive anatomists have given the following names. These eminences and depressions are of two kinds : articular and non-arti- cular. Well-marked examples of articular eminences are found in the heads of the humerus and femur; and of articular depressions, in the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and the acetabulum. Non-articular eminences are designated according to their form. Thus, a broad, rough, uneven elevation is called a tuberosity ; a small, rough prominence, a tubercle ; a sharp, slender, pointed eminence, a spine ; a narrow, rough elevation, running some way along the surface, a ridge or line. The non-articular depressions are also of very variable form, and are described as fossce, grooves, furrows, fissures, notches, etc. These non-articular eminences and depressions serve to increase the extent of surface for the attachment of liga- ments and muscles, and are usually well-marked in proportion to the muscularity of the subject. A prominent process projecting from the surface of a bone, which it has never been separate from or movable upon, is termed an apophysis (from d7r6<f)V(rL<;, an excrescence) ; but if such process is developed as a separate piece from the rest of the bone, to which it is afterwards joined, it is termed an epiphysis (from eTrtc^ucrt?, an accretion). THE SPINE The Spine is a flexuous and flexible column, formed of a series of bones called vertebrce (from vertere, to turn). The Vertebrae are thirty-three in number, exclusive of those which form the skull, and have received the names cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacred, and coccygeal, according to the position which they occupy; seven being found in the cervical region, twelve in the dorsal, five in the lumbar, five in the sacral, and four in the coccygeal. This number is sometimes increased by an additional vertebra in one region, or the number may be diminished in one region, the deficiency being supplied by an additional vertebra in another. These observations do not apply to the cervical portion of the spine, the number of bones forming which is seldom increased or diminished. The Vertebrae in the upper three regions of the spine are separate throughout the whole of life; but those found in the sacral and coccygeal regions are in the adult firmly united, so as to form two bones—five entering into the formation of the upper bone or sacrum, and four into the terminal bone of the spine or coccyx. General Characters of a Vertebra Each vertebra consists of two essential parts—an anterior solid segment or body, and a posterior segment or arch. The arch is formed of two pedicles, and two lamince, supporting seven processes—viz. four artimdar, two transverse, and one spinous. The bodies of the vertebrae are piled one upon the other, forming a strong pillar, for the support of the cranium and trunk; the arches forming a hollow