GENERAL ANATOMY 92 shaped cavity consists therefore of two layers: one, the outer, originally the posterior half of the primitive ocular vesicle, is thin, and eventually forms the pigmental layer of the retina ; * the other layer, the inner, originally the anterior or more prominent half, which has become folded back, and is much thicker, is converted into the nervous layers of the retina. Between the two are the remains of the cavity of the original primary vesicle, which finally becomes obli- terated by the union of its two layers. As development proceeds the cup-shaped cavity or ocular cup increases in size, and thus a space is formed between it and the rudimentary lens which it contains ; this is the secondary ocular vesicle, and in it the vitreous humour is developed (fig. 94, c). The folding in of the primary optic vesicle to produce the optic cup proceeds from above downwards, and gradually surrounds the lens, but leaves an aperture or fissure below, the cJioroiclal fissure or ocular cleft, through which vascular elements, within the vesicle and derived from the mesoblast, retam their connection with the rest of the mesoblast. This gap or cleft is continued for some distance into the stalk of the optic vesicle and thus allows a process of the mesoblast to extend down the stalk to form the arteria centralis retinae and its accompanying vein. The lens is at first a thickening of the epiblast, then a depression or involution takes place, thus forming an open follicle, the margins of which gradually approach each other and Fig. 95.—Diagrammatic sketch of a vertical longitudinal section through the eyeball of a human foetus of four weeks. (After KoUiker.) Magnified 100 diameters. The section is a little to the side, so as to avoid passing throusfh the ocular cleft. Fig. 94.- -Diagram of development of the lens. ABC. Different stages of development, i. Epidermic layer. 2. Thickening of this layer. 3. Crystalline depression. 4. Primitive ocular vesicle, its anterior part pushed back by the crystalline depression. 5. Posterior part of the primitive ocular vesicle, forming the external layer of the secondary ocular vesicle. 6. Point of separation between the lens and the epidermic layer. 7. Cavity of the secondary ocular vesicle, occupied by the vitreous. The cuticle, where it becomes later the cornea. I. The lens. op. Optic nerve formed by the pedicle of the primary optic vesicle, vp. Primary medullary cavity of the optic vesicle, p. The pigment-layer of the outer wall. The inner wall forming the retina, vs. Secondary optic vesicle containing the rudiment of the vitreous humour. coalesce, forming an enclosed cavity of epiblastic cells (fig. 94). At the point of involution the external layer of epiblast separates from the ball of the lens and passes freely over the surface, so that the lens becomes disconnected from the epiblastic layer from which it was developed, and recedes into the ocular cup, while ! the cuticular layer covering it is developed into the corneal epithelium. The cells j forming the posterior or inner wall of the cavity, which is to form the lens, rapidly ! increase in size, becoming elongated and developed into fibres, and, filling up the I cavity, convert it into a sohd body. The cells on the anterior wall undergo no j change and retain their cellular character. The secondary ocular vesicle, or space \ between the lens and the hollow of the ocular cup (fig. 94, c, 7, and 95), contains a quantity of mesoblastic tissue continuous through the ocular cleft with the rest of the mesoblast, and into this blood-vessels project themselves through the ocular cleft. The iris and cihary processes are formed from this vascular tissue, and the choroid is developed in the mesoblast surrounding the ocular vesicle. A portion of this tissue also becomes converted into the vitreous humour, and surrounds the lens * This layer forms functionally part of the choroid, and was formerly described as belongmg to this membrane ; it is now described as part of the retina, on account of its method of development.