226 THE SKELETON whether it ever occurs. These fractures are usually considered to be intracapsular, but they are probably partly within and parth' ^^■ithout the ca])sule. as the lower part of the capsule is inserted some little distance below the anatomical neck, while the upper part is attached to it. They may be impacted or non-impacted. In most cases there is little or no disj^lacement on account of the capsule, in whole or in part, remaining attached to the lower fi-agment. But occasionally a very remarkable alteration in position takes place ; the upper fragment turiis on its own axis, so that the cartilaginous surface of the head rests against the upper end of the lower fragment. AVhen the h-actured end is entirely separated from all its surroundings, its vascular supply nuist be entirely cut oft", and one would expect it, theoretically, to necrose. But this must be exceedingly rare, for Gurlt was unable to find a single authenticated case recorded. Separation of the upper epiphysis of the humerus sometimes occurs in the young subject, and is marked by a characteristic deformity, by which the lesion may be at once recognised. This consists in the jiresence of an abrupt projection at the front of the joint some short distance below the coracoid process, caused by the upper end of the lower fragment. In fractures of the shaft of the humerus the lesion may take place at any point, but appears to be more common in the lower than the upper part of the bone. The points of interest in connection with these fractures are (i) that the musculo-spiral nerve may be injured as it lies in the groove on the bone, or may become involved in the callus which is subsequently thrown out; and (2) the frecpiency of non-union. This is believed to be more common in the humerus than in any other bone, and various causes have been assigned for it. It would seem most probably to be due to the difficulty that there is in fixing the shoulder-joint and the upper fragment, and possibly also the elbow-joint and lower fragment also. Other causes which have been assigned for the non-union are : (i) that in attempting passive motion of the elbow-joint to overcome any rigidity which may exist, the movement does not take place at the articulation but at the seat of fi'acture; or that the patient, in consecjuence of the rigidity of the elbow, in attempting to flex or extend the forearm, moves the fragment and not the joint. (2) The presence of small portions of muscular tissue between the broken ends. (3) AVant of support to the elbow, so that the weight of the arm tends to drag the lower fragment away from the upper. An important distinction to make in fractures of the lower end of the humerus, is between those that iuAolve the joint and those which do not; the former are always serious, as they may lead to impairment of the utility of the limb. They include the T-shaped fractin-e and oblique fractures which involve the articular surface. The fractures A\hich do not involve the joint are the transverse above the cond^ies, and detachment of one or other condyle. Under the head of separation of the epijihysis two sei)arate injuries have been described. One where the whole of the four ossific centres which form the lower extremity of the bone are separated from the shaft; and secondly, where the articular portion is alone separated, the two condyles remaining attached to the shaft of the l)()ne. The epiphysial line between the sliaft and lower end runs across the bone just abo\'e the tips of the condyles, a point to be borne in mind in performing the operation of excision. Tumours originating from the humerus are of frequent occurrence. A not uncommon place for a chondroma to grow from is the shaft of the bone somewhere in the neighbour- hood of the insertion of the deltoid. Sarcomata fre(iuently grow from this bone. The Forearm is that portion of the upper extremity which is situated between the elbow and wrist. It is composed of two bones, the ulna and the radius. The Ulna The Ulna (figs. 200, 201), so called from its forming the elbow ((oXeVyy), is a long bone, prismatic in form, placed at the inner side of the forearm, parallel with the radius. It is the larger and longer of the two bones. Its upper extremity, of great thickness and strength, forms a large part of the articulation of the elbow- joint ; it diminishes in size from above downwards, its lower extremity being very small, and excluded from the wrist-joint by the interposition of an interarticular fibro-cartilage. It is divisible into a shaft and two extremities. The Upper Extremity, the strongest part of the bone, presents for examination two large, curved processes, the Olecranon process and the Coronoid process ; and two concave, articular cavities, the greater and lesser sigmoid cavities. The Olecranon Process {wXivrj, elboir ; Kpaviov, head) is a large, thick, curved eminence, situated at the upper and back part of the ulna. It is curved forwards at the summit so as to present a prominent tip, its base being contracted where it joins the shaft. This is the narrowest part of the upper end of the ulna, and, consequently, the most usual seat of fracture. The posterior surface of the