63 THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES the fibrous part; they are converted into thin, flat scales, having an imbricated arrangement. Connected with the hair-folhcles are minute bundles of involuntary muscular fibres, termed the arrectores pili. They arise from the superficial layer of the corium, and are inserted into the outer surface of the hair-follicle, below the entrance of the duct of the sebaceous gland. They are placed on the side towards which the hair slopes, and by their action elevate the hair (fig. 68). The sebaceous glands are small, sacculated, glandular organs, lodged in the substance of the corium. They are found in most parts of the skin, but are most abundant in the scalp and face : they are also very numerous around the apertures of the anus, nose, mouth, and external ear; but are wanting in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. Each gland consists of a single duct, more or less capacious, which terminates in a cluster of small secreting pouches or saccules. The sacculi connected with each duct vary, as a rule, in numbers from two to five, but, in some instances, may be as many as twenty. They are composed of a trans- parent, colourless membrane, enclosing a number of cells. Of these, the outer layer or marginal cells are small, polyhedral, epithelial cells, continuous with the lining cells of the duct. The remainder of the sac is filled with larger cells, con- taining fat, except in the centre, where the cells have become broken up, leaving a cavity containing the debris of cells and a mass of fatty matter, which constitutes the sebaceous secretion. The orifices of the ducts open most frequently into the hair-follicles, but occasionally upon the general surface. On the nose and face the glands are of large size, distinctly lobulated, and often become much enlarged from the accumulation of pent-up secretion. The largest sebaceous glands are those found in the eyelids—the Meibomian glands. The sudoriferous or sweat glands are the organs by Avhich a large portion of the aqueous and gaseous materials are excreted by the skin. They are found in almost every part of this structure and are situated in small pits in the deep parts of the corium, or, more frequently, in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, surrounded by a quantity of adipose tissue. They are small, lobular, reddish bodies, consisting of a single convoluted tube, from which the afferent duct proceeds upwards through the corium and cuticle, becomes somewhat dilated at its extremity, and opens on the surface of the cuticle by an oblique valve-like aperture. The efferent duct, as it passes through the epidermis, presents a spiral arrangement, being twisted like a corkscrew, in those parts where the epidermis is thick ; where, however, it is thin, the spiral arrangement does not exist. In the superficial layers of the corium, the duct is straight, but in the deeper layers it is convoluted or even twisted. The spiral course of these ducts is especially distinct in the thick cuticle of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot. The size of the glands varies. They are especially large in those regions where the amount of perspiration is great, as in the axillae, where they form a thin, mammillated layer of a reddish colour, which corresponds exactly to the situation of the hair in this region ; they are large also in the groin. Their number varies. They are most numerous on the palm of the hand, presenting, ■ according to Krause, 2,800 orifices on a square inch of the integument, and are rather less numerous on the sole of the foot. In both of these situations the I orifices of the ducts are exceedingly regular, and correspond to the small transverse I grooves which intersect the ridges of the papillae. In other situations they are more ! irregularly scattered, but in nearly equal numbers, over parts including the same • extent of surface. In the neck and back they are least numerous, their number I amounting to 417 on the square inch (Krause). Their total number is estimated ; by the same writer at 2,381,248, and, supposing the aperture of each gland to ! represent a surface of ^ig- of a line in diameter, he calculates that the whole of ; these glands would present an evaporating surface of about eight square inches, j Each gland consists of a single tube intricately convoluted, terminating at one end j by a blind extremity, and opening at the other end upon the surface of the skin. 1 In the larger glands this single duct usually divides and subdivides dichotomously ; the smaller ducts ultimately terminating in short csecal pouches, rarely anasto-