THE SKELETON 212 surface is smooth, flat, and looks backwards towards the root of the neck. It is limited, above, by the superior border ; below, by the subclavian border ; internally, by the margin of the sternal extremity; externally, it is continuous with the posterior border of the flat portion. It is concave from within outwards, and is in relation, by its lower part, with the suprascapular vessels. This surface, at about the junction of the inner and outer curves, is also in close relation with the brachial plexus and subclavian vessels. It gives attachment, near the sternal extremity, to part of the Sterno-hyoid muscle ; and presents, at or near the middle, a foramen, directed obliquely outwards, which transmits the chief nutrient artery of the bone. Sometimes there are two foramina on the posterior surface, or one on the posterior, the other on the inferior surface. The inferior or subclavian surface is bounded, in front, by the anterior border ; behind, by the subclavian border. It is narrow internally, but gradually increases in width externally, and is continuous with the Fig. 192.—Left clavicle. Superior surface. Acromial extremity Fig. 193.—Left clavicle. Inferior surface. under surface of. the flat portion. Commencing at the sternal extremity may be seen a small facet for articulation with the cartilage of the first rib. This is con- tinuous with the articular surface at the sternal end of the bone. External to this is a broad, rough impression, the rhomboid, rather more than an inch in length, for the attachment of the costo-clavicular (rhomboid) ligament. The remaining part of this surface is occupied by a longitudinal groove, the subclavian groove, broad and smooth externally, narrow and more uneven internally; it gives attachment to the Subclavius muscle, and, by its anterior margin, to the costo-coracoid membrane. Not unfrequently this groove is subdivided into two parts by a longitudinal line, which gives attachment to the intermuscular septum of the Subclavius muscle. The internal or sternal extremity of the clavicle is triangular in form, directed inwards, and a little downwards and forwards ; and presents an articular facet, concave from before backwards, convex from above downwards, which articulates with the sternum through the intervention of an interarticular fibro-cartilage; the circumference of the articular surface is rough, for the attachment of numerous ligaments. The posterior border of this surface is prolonged backwards so as to