45 NERVOUS TISSUE in the conjunctiva (where, in man, they are spheroidal in shape), in the mucous membrane of the mouth, and in the cutis and mucous membrane of the penis, chtoris, and vagina, where they are termed genital corpuscles. The latter have a mulberry-like appearance, from being constricted by connective-tissue septa into from two to six knob-like masses. In the synovial membrane of certain joints (e.g. those of the fingers), rounded or oval end-bulbs have been found ; these are designated articular end-bulbs. The tactile corpuscles (fig. 53), described by Wagner and Meissner, are oval- shaped bodies, made up of connective tissue, and consisting of a capsule, and imperfect membranous septa, derived from it, which penetrate its interior. The axis-cylinders, entering the capsule, pursue a convoluted course, supported by the septa, and terminate in small globular or pyriform enlargements, near the inner surface of the capsule. These tactile corpuscles have been described as occurring in the papillae of the corium of the hand and foot, the front of the fore-arm, the skin of the lips, and the mucous membrane of the tip of the tongue, the palpebral conjunctiva, and the skin of the nipple. They are not found in all the papillge ; Fig. 52.—End-bulb of Krause. a. MeduUated uerve-fibre. &- Capsule of corpuscle. (From Klein's 'Elements of Histology.') Fig. 53.—Papilla of the hand, treated with acetic acid. Magnified 350 times. A. Side view of a papilla of the hand. a. Cortical layer. b. Tactile corpuscle, with transverse nuclei, c. Small nerve of the papilla, with neurilemma, d. Its two nervous fibres running with spiral coils around the tactile corpuscle, e. Apparent termina- tion of one of these fibres. B. A tactile papilla seen from above so as to show its transverse section. «. Cortical layer, b. Nerve-fibre, c. Outer layer of the tactile body, with nuclei, d. Clear interior sub- stance. but from their existence in those parts in which the skin is highly sensitive, it is probable that they are specially concerned in the sense of touch, though their absence from the papillpe of other tactile parts shows that they are not essential to this sense. The Pacinian corpuscles* (fig. 54) are found in the human subject chiefly on the nerves of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot and in the genital organs of both sexes lying in the subcutaneous tissue ; but they have also been described as connected with the nerves of the joints, and in some other situations, as the mesentery of the cat and along the tibia of the rabbit. Each of these corpuscles is attached to and encloses the termination of a single nerve-fibre. The corpuscle, which is perfectly visible to the naked eye (and which can be most easily demon- strated in the mesentery of a cat), consists of a number of lamellte or capsules, arranged more or less concentrically around a central clear space, in which the nerve-fibre is contained. Each lamella is composed of bundles of fine connective- tissue fibres, and is lined on its inner surface by a single layer of nucleated endo- thelial cells. The central clear space, which is elongated or cylindrical in shape, is filled with a transparent material, in the middle of which is the single medullated fibre, which traverses the space to near its distal extremity. Here it terminates * Often called in German anatomical works ' corpuscles of Vater.'