MUSCLES AND FASCIA 390 jaw, and extending, in a curved form, from the side of the head to the symphysis of the jaw. The ijosterior belly, longer than the anterior, arises from the digastric groove on the inner side of the mastoid jDrocess of the temporal bone, and passes downwards, forwards, and inwards. The anterior belly arises from a depression on the inner side of the lower border of the jaw, close to the symphysis, and passes downwards and backwards. The two bellies terminate in the central tendon which perforates the Stylo-hyoid, and is held in connection with the side of the body and the greater cornu of the hyoid bone by a fibrous loop, lined by a synovial membrane. A broad aponeurotic layer is given off from the tendon of the Digastric on each side, which is attached to the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone : this is termed the supra-hyoid aijoneurosis. It forms a strong layer of fascia between the anterior portion of the two muscles, and a firm investment for the other muscles of the supra-hyoid region which lie deeper. The Digastric muscle divides the anterior superior triangle of the neck into two smaller triangles; the upper, or submaxillary, being bounded, above, by the lower border of the body of the jaw, and a line drawn from its angle to the mastoid process ; below, by the posterior belly of the Digastric and the Stylo- hyoid muscles; in front, by the middle line of the neck, and anterior belly of the Digastric : the lower or stqyerior carotid triangle being bounded above by the posterior belly of the Digastric, behind by the Sterno-mastoid, below by the Omo- hyoid. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Platysma, Sterno-mastoid, X3art of the Splenius, Trachelo-mastoid, and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and the parotid gland. By its deep surface, the anterior belly lies on the Mylo-hyoid; the posterior belly on the Stylo-glossus, Stylo-pharyngeus, and Hyo-giossus muscles, the external carotid artery and its lingual and facial branches, the internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and hypoglossal nerve. The Stylo-hyoid is a small, slender muscle, lying in front of, and above, the posterior belly of the Digastric. It arises from the back and outer surface of the styloid process, near the base ; and, passing downwards and forwards, is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone, just at its junction with the greater cornu, and immediately above the Omo-hyoid. This muscle is perforated, near its insertion, by the tendon of the Digastric. Relations.—The relations are the same as those of the posterior belly of the Digastric. The Stylo-hyoid Ligament.—In connection with the Stylo-hyoid muscle may be described a ligamentous band, the Stylo-hyoid ligament. It is a fibrous cord, often containing a little cartilage in its centre, which continues the styloid process down to the hyoid bone, being attached to the tip of the former and the small cornu of the latter. It is often more or less ossified. The Digastric and Stylo-hyoid should be removed, in order to expose the next muscle. The Mylo-hyoid is a flat, triangular muscle, situated immediately beneath the anterior belly of the Digastric, and forming, with its fellow of the opposite side, a muscular floor for the cavity of the mouth. It arises from the whole length of the mylo-hyoid ridge, extending from the symphysis in front to the last molar tooth behind. The posterior fibres pass obliquely forwards, to be inserted into the body of the os hyoides. The middle and anterior fibres are inserted into a median fibrous raphe, extending from the symphysis of the lower jaw to the hyoid bone, where they join at an angle with the fibres of the opposite muscle. This median raphe is sometimes wanting ; the muscular fibres of the two sides are then directly continuous with one another. Relations.—By its cutaneous surface, with the Platysma, the anterior belly of the Digastric, the supra-hyoid aponeurosis, the submaxillary gland, submental vessels, and mylo-hyoid vessels and nerve. By its deep or superior surface, with the Genio-hyoid, part of the Hyo-giossus, and Stylo-giossus muscles, the hypo- glossal and lingual nerves, the submaxillary ganglion, the sublingual gland, the