ORGANS OF SENSE 826 and their neck opening by an orifice between the cells of the epithelium. They are formed by two kinds of cells : the external (cortical) are arranged in several layers ; they are long and flattened, with tapering ends, and in contact by their edges; the tapering extremities extending from the base to the apex of the organ. They thus enclose the central cells (gustatory cells), which are spindle-shaped, and have a large spherical nucleus about the middle of the cell. Both extremities are filamentous, the inner process is described as continuous with the terminal fibril of a nerve, while the outer one projects as an extremely fine hair through the orifice of the taste-gobiet.* Glands of the tongue.—The tongue is provided with mucous and serous glands and lymphoid follicles. The mucous glands are similar in structure to the labial and buccal glands. They are found all over the surface of the mucous membrane of the tongue, especially at the back part behind the circumvallate papillae, but also at the apex and marginal parts. In connection with these glands, a special one has been described by Blandin and Nuhn. It is situated near the apex of the tongue on either side of the fraenum, and is covered over by a fasciculus of muscular fibre derived from the Stylo-giossus and Inferior lingualis. It is from half an inch to nearly an inch long, and about the third of an inch broad. It has from four to six ducts, which open on the under surface of the apex. The serous glands occur only at the back of the tongue in the neighbourhood of the taste-goblets, their ducts opening for the most part into the fossae of the circumvallate papillae. These glands are racemose, the duct branching into several minute ducts, which terminate in alveoli, lined by a single layer of more or less Fig. 480.-—Under surface of tongue, showing position and relations of gland of Blandin and Nnhn. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.) Fig. 479.—-Taste-goblets. a. Central cell. h. Cortical cell. columnar epithelium. Their secretion is of a watery nature, and probably assists in the distribution of the substance to be tasted over the taste area. (Ebner.) Tlfie lymphoid follicles.—The lymphoid tissue is situated, for the most part, at the back of the tongue, between the epiglottis and the circumvallate papillae, and is collected at numerous points into distinct masses known as lympthoid follicles. Here and there in this situation are depressions in the mucous membrane, * See Engelmann, in Strieker's Handbook {New Syd. Soc. Trans.), vol. iii. p. 2. j