290 ARTICULATIONS axes at right angles to each other, or at any intervening axis between the two. These are the condyloid and saddle-joint. There is one form of joint where the movement is polyaxial, the enarthrosis or ball-and-socket joint. And finally there are the Artlirodia or Gliding joints. Ginglymus or Hinge-joint (yLyyXvfxo<;, a hinge).—In this form of joint the articular sm'faces are moulded to each other in such a manner as to permit motion only in one plane, forwards and backwards ; the extent of motion at the same time being considerable. The direction which the distal bone takes in this motion is never in the same plane as that of the axis of the proximal bone, but there is always a certain amount of alteration from the straight line during flexion. The articular surfaces are connected together by strong lateral ligaments, which form their chief bond of union. The most perfect forms of gingiymus are the inter- phalangeal joints and the joint between the humerus and ulna; the knee and ankle are less perfect, as they allow a slight degree of rotation or lateral movement in certain positions of the limb. Trochoides (pivot-joint).—Where the movement is limited to rotation, the joint is formed by a pivot-like process turning within a ring, or the ring on the pivot, the ring being formed partly of bone, partly of ligament. In the superior radio-ulnar articulation, the ring is formed partly by the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; in the rest of its extent, by the orbicular ligament; here, the head of the radius rotates within the ring. In the articulation of the odontoid process of the axis with the atlas, the ring is formed in front by the anterior arch of the atlas ; behind, by the transverse ligament ; here the ring rotates round the odontoid process. Condyloid Articulations.—In this form of joint, an ovoid articular head, or condyle, is received into an elliptical cavity in such a manner as to permit of flexion and extension, adduction and abduction and circumduction, but no axial rotation. The articular surfaces are connected together by anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments. An example of this form of joint is found in the wrist. Articulations by Reciprocal Reception (saddle-joint).—In this variety, the articular surfaces are concavo-convex ; that is to say, they are inversely convex in one direction and concave in the other. The movements are the same as in the preceding form ; that is to say, there is flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction, but no axial rotation. The articular surfaces are connected by a capsular ligament. The best example of this form of joint is the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb. Enarthrosis is that form of joint in which the distal bone is capable of motion around an indefinite number of axes, which have one common centre. It is formed by the reception of a globular head into a deep cup-like cavity (hence the name ' ball-and-socket '), the parts being kept in apposition by a capsular ligament strengthened by accessory hgamentous bands. Examples of this form of articulation are found in the hip and shoulder. Arthrodia is that form of joint which admits of a gliding movement; it is formed by the approximation of plane surfaces, or one slightly concave, the other slightly convex; the amount of motion between them being limited by the ligaments, or osseous processes, surrounding the articulation ; as in the articular processes of the vertebrae, the carpal joints, except that of the os magnum with the scaphoid and semilunar bones, and the tarsal joints with the exception of the joint between the astragalus and the navicular. On the next page, in a tabular form, are the names, distinctive characters, and examples of the different kinds of articulations. The Kinds of Movement admitted in Joints The movements admissible in joints may be divided into four kinds : gliding, angular movement, circumduction, and rotation. These movements are often, however, more or less combined in the various joints, so as to produce an infinite variety, and it is seldom that we find only one kind of motion in any particular joint.