oeCtAns of sense 872 The arteries of the labyrinth are, the internal auditory, from the basilar; the stylo-mastoicl, from the posterior auricular ; and, occasionally, branches from the occipital. The internal auditory divides at the bottom of the internal meatus into two branches : cochlear and vestibular. The cochlear branch subdivides into from twelve to fourteen twigs, which traverse the canals in the modiolus, and are distributed, in the form of a capillary network, in the substance of the lamina spiralis. The vestibular branches accompany the nerves, and are distributed, in the form of a minute capillary network, in the substance of the membranous labyrinth. The veins (auditory) of the vestibule and semicircular canals accompany the arteries, and, receiving those of the cochlea at the base of the modiolus, terminate in the superior petrosal sinus. The auditory nerve, the special nerve of the sense of hearing, divides, at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, into two branches, the cochlear and vestibular. The trunk of the nerve, as well as the branches, contains numerous ganglion-cells with caudate prolongations. The vestibular nerve, the posterior of the two, divides into three branches : superior, middle, and inferior. The superior vestibular branch, the largest, divides into numerous filaments, which pass through minute openings at the upper and back part of the cul-de-sac at the bottom of the meatus, and, entering the vestibule, are distributed to the utricle and to the ampulla of the external and superior semicircular canals. The middle vestibular branch consists of numerous filaments, which enter the vestibule by a smaller cluster of foramina, placed below those above-mentioned, and which correspond to the bottom of the fovea hemispherica ; they are distributed to the saccule. The inferior and smallest branch passes backwards in a canal behind the foramina for the nerves of the saccule, and is distributed to the ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal. The nervous filaments enter the ampullary enlargements at a deep depression seen on their external surface, with a corresponding elevation when seen from within ; the nerve-fibres ending in loops and in free extremities. In the utricle and saccule the nerve-fibres spread out, some blending with the calcareous matter; others, radiating on the inner surface of the wall of each cavity, become blended with a layer of nucleated cells, and terminate in a thin fibrous film. The cochlear nerve divides into numerous filaments at the base of the modiolus, which ascend along its canals, and then, bending outwards at right angles, pass between the plates of the bony lamina spiralis, close to its tympanic surface. Between the plates of the spiral lamina the nerves form a plexus, which contains ganglion cells forming the ganglion spirale. From this ganglion delicate filaments pass between the layers of the osseous lamina to the sulcus spiralis and pass outwards to the organ of Corti. Their exact termination is uncertain. Waldeyer describes them as collected into two groups, one group ending in the outer and the other in the inner hair-cells. Surgical Anatomy.—Malformations, such as imperfect development of the external parts, absence of the meatus, or supernumerary auricles, are occasionally met with. Or the pinna may present a congenital fistula, which is due to defective closure of the first visceral cleft, or rather of that portion of it which is not concerned in the formation of the Eustachian tube, tympanum, and meatus. The skin of the am-icle is thin and richly supplied with blood, but in spite of this it is frequently the seat of frost-bite, due to the fact that it is much exposed to cold, and lacks the usual covering of subcutaneous fat found in most other parts of the body. A collection of blood is sometimes found between the cartilage and perichondrium {hcEmatoma auris), usually the result of traumatism, but not necessarily due to this cause. It is said to occur most frequently in the ears of the insane. Keloid sometimes grows in the auricle around the puncture made for earrings, and epithelioma occasionally affects this part. Deposits of urate of soda are often met with in the pinna in gouty subjects. The external auditory meatus can be most satisfactorily examined by light reflected down a funnel-shaped speculum; by gently moving the latter in different directions the