NEEVOUS SYSTEM npHE Nervous System is composed : i. Of a series of large centres of nerve-matter, X called, collectively, the cerehro-spinal centre or axis. 2. Of smaller centres, termed ganglia. 3. Of nerves, connected either with the cerebro-spinal axis or the ganglia. And 4. Of certain modifications of the peripheral terminations of the nerves, forming the organs of the external senses. The Cerebro-spinal Centre consists of two parts, the spinal cord and the encephalon: the latter may be subdivided into the cerebrum, the cerebellum, the pons Varolii, and the medulla oblongata. THE SPINAL COED AND ITS MEMBKANES Dissection.—To dissect the cord and its membranes, it will be necessary to lay open the whole length of the spinal canal. For this purpose, the muscles must be separated from the vertebral grooves, so as to expose the spinous processes and laminae of the vertebrae ; and the latter must be sawn through on each side, close to the roots of the transverse processes, from the third or fourth cervical vertebra above, to the sacrum below. The vertebral arches having been displaced by means of a chisel, and the separate fragments removed, the dma mater will be exposed, covered by a plexus of veins and a quantity of loose areolar tissue, often infiltrated with serous fluid. The arches of the upper vertebrae are best divided by means of a strong pair of cutting bone-forceps. Membranes of the Coed The membranes which envelope the spinal cord are three in number. The most external is the dura mater, a strong fibrous membrane, which forms a loose sheath around the cord. The most internal is the pia mater, a cellulo-vascular membrane which closely invests the entire surface of the cord. Between the two is the arachnoid membrane, a non-vascular membrane, which envelopes the cord, and is connected to the pia mater by slender filaments of connective tissue. The Dura Mater of the cord, continuous with that which invests the brain, is a loose sheath which surrounds the cord, and is separated from the bony walls of the spinal canal by a quantity of loose areolar tissue, and a plexus of veins. It is attached to the circumference of the foramen magnum, and to the posterior common ligament, especially at the lower end of the spinal canal, by fibrous slips ; and extends below as far as the third piece of the sacrum ; but beyond this point it is impervious, being continued in the form of a slender cord to the back of the coccyx, where it blends with the periosteum. This sheath is much larger than is necessary for its contents, and its size is efreater in the cervical and lumbar regions than in the dorsal. Its inner surface is smooth. On each side may be seen the double openings which transmit the two roots of the corresponding spinal nerve, the fibrous layer of the dura mater being continued in the form of a tubular prolongation on them as they pass through these apertures. These prolongations of the dura mater are short in the upper part of the spine, but become gradually longer below, forming a number of tubes of fibrous membrane, which enclose the sacral nerves, and are contained in the spinal canal. The chief peculiarities of the dura mater of the cord, as compared with that investing the brain, are the following :— X X 2