FEMUR 257 place, the urethra, the bladder, the rectum, the vagina in the female, the small intestines, and even the uterus, have all been lacerated by a displaced fragment. Fractures of the acetabulum are occasionally met with : either a portion of the rim may be broken off, or a fracture may take place through the bottom of the cavity and the head of the femur driven inwards and project into the pelvic cavity. Separation of the Y-shaped cartilage at the bottom of the acetabulum may also occur in the young subject, separating the bone into its three anatomical portions. The sacrum is occasionally, but rarely, broken by direct violence,—i.e. blows, kicks or falls on the part. The lesion may be complicated with injury to the nerves of the sacral plexus, leading to paralysis and loss of sensation in the lower extremity, or to incontinence of faeces from paralysis of the sphincter ani. The pelvic bones often undergo important deformity in rickets, the effect of which in the adult woman may interfere seriously with child-bearing. In consequence of the yielding nature of the bones, the acetabula become approximated, the symphysis is pushed forward, and the antero-posterior diameter lessened. In osteo-malacia also great deformity may occur, the pelvis becoming beak-shaped. The promontory of the sacrum is pushed forward by the weight of the body, and the sides of the pelvis are approximated by the pressure of the two thigh-bones: this gives to the pelvis the peculiar deformity which is characteristic of this disease. The Femur or Thigh-bone The Femur (femur, the thigh) is the longest,* largest, and strongest bone in the skeleton, and almost perfectly cylindrical in the greater part of its extent. In the erect posture it is not vertical, being separated from its fellow above by a considerable interval, which corresponds to the entire breadth of the pelvis, but inclining gradually downwards and inwards, so as to approach its fellow towards its lower part, for the purpose of bringing the knee-joint near the line of gravity of the body. The degree of this inclination varies in different persons, and is greater in the female than the male, on account of the greater breadth of the pelvis. The femur, like other long bones, is divisible into a shaft and two extremities. The Upper Extremity presents for examination a head, a neck, and the great and lesser trochanters. The head, which is globular, and forms rather more than a hemisphere, is directed upwards, inwards, and a little forwards, the greater part of its convexity being above and in front. Its surface is smooth, coated with cartilage in the recent state, except at a little behind and below its centre, where there is an ovoid depression, for the attachment of the ligamentum teres. The neck is a flattened pyramidal process of bone, which connects the head with the shaft. It varies in length and obliquity at various periods of life, and under different circumstances. The angle is widest in infancy, and becomes lessened during growth, so that at puberty it forms a gentle curve from the axis of the shaft. In the adult it forms an angle of about 130° with the shaft, but varies in inverse proportion to the development of the pelvis and the stature. In consequence of the prominence of the hips and widening of the pelvis in the female, the neck of the thigh-bone forms more nearly a right angle with the shaft than it does in man. It has been stated that the angle diminishes in old age and the direction of the neck becomes horizontal, but this statement is founded on insufficient evidence. Sir George Humphry states that the angle decreases during the period of growth, but after full growth has been attained it does not usually undergo any change, even in old age. He further states that the angle varies considerably in different persons of the same age. It is smaller in short than in long bones, and when the pelvis is wide.f The neck is flattened from before backwards, contracted in the middle, and broader at its outer extremity, where it is connected with the shaft, than at its summit, where it is attached to the head. The vertical diameter of the outer half is increased by the thickening of the lower edge, which slopes downwards to join the shaft at the lesser trochanter, so that the outer half of the neck is flattened from before backwards, and its vertical diameter measures one third more than the antero-posterior. The inner half is smaller, and of a more circular shape. The anterior surface of the neck is perforated by numerous vascular foramina. * In a man six feet high, it measures eighteen inches—one-fourth of the whole body, t Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. s