INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE 175 walls are composed of compact tissue at either extremity, and of cancellous in the centre. It contains the inferior dental vessels and nerve, from which branches are distributed to the teeth through small apertures at the bases of the alveoli. The loiver border of the ramus is thick, straight, and continuous with the body of the bone. At its junction with the posterior border is the angle of the jaiv, which is either inverted or everted, and marked by rough, oblique ridges on each side, for the attachment of the Masseter externally, and the Internal pterygoid internally; the stylo-maxillary ligament is attached to the bone between these muscles. The anterior border is thin above, thicker below, and continuous with the external oblique line. The posterior border is thick, smooth, rounded, and covered by the parotid gland. The upper border of the ramus is thin, and presents two processes, separated by a deep concavity, the sigmoid notch. Of these processes, the anterior is the coronoid, the posterior the condyloid. The Coronoid Process is a thin, flattened triangular eminence of bone, which varies in shape and size in different subjects, and serves chiefly for the attachment of the Temporal muscle. Its external surface is smooth, and affords attachment fco the Temporal muscle. Its mternal surface gives attachment to the Temporal muscle, and presents the commencement of a longitudinal ridge, which is continued bo the posterior part of the alveolar process. On the outer side of this ridge is a ieep groove, continued below on the outer side of the alveolar process ; this ridge 'md part of the groove afford attachment, above, to the Temporal; below, to the Buccinator muscle. The Condyloid Process, shorter but thicker than the coronoid, consists of two portions: the condyle, and the constricted portion which supports the condyle, the lecli. The condyle is of an oblong form, its long axis being transverse, and set )bHquely on the neck in such a manner that its outer end is a little more forward md a little higher than its inner. It is convex from before backwards, and from iide to side, the articular surface extending further on the posterior than on the mterior aspect. The neck of the condyle is flattened from before backwards, and itrengthened by ridges which descend from the fore part and sides of the condyle, ts lateral margins are narrow, and present externally a tubercle for the external ateral ligament. Its posterior surface is convex; its anterior is hollowed out m its inner side by a depression (the pterygoid fossa) for the attachment of the External pterygoid. 1 The Sigmoid Notch, separating the two processes, is a deep semilunar depres- ion, crossed by the masseteric vessels and nerve. Development.—The lower jaw is developed principally from membrane, but !)artly from cartilage. The process of ossification commences early—before, indeed, j,ny bone except the clavicle. Between the fifth and sixth week a centre of ossifi- ation appears in the membrane on the outer surface of Meckel's cartilage (see fpage 88), from which the greater part of the bone is found. A second centre jppears in the membrane on the inner surface of the tooth sockets, from which the mer wall of the sockets of the teeth is formed, this terminates above in the lingula. -he anterior extremity of Meckel's cartilage becomes ossified, forming the body of ;he bone on each side of the symphysis. And, finally, two supplemental patches of artilage appear at the condyle and at the angle, in which centres of ossification br these parts appear. At birth the bone consists of two halves, united by a brous symphysis, in which ossification takes place during the first year. Articulation.—With the glenoid fossae of the two temporal bones. Attachment of Muscles.—To fifteen pairs ; to its external surface, commencing it the symphysis, and proceeding backwards: Levator menti, Depressor labii Iliferioris, Depressor anguli oris, Platysma myoides. Buccinator, Masseter ; a portion f the Orbicularis oris (Accessorii Orbicularis inferioris) is also attached to this arface. To its internal surface, commencing at the same point: Genio-hyo- lossus, Genio-hyoideus, Mylo-hyoideus, Digastric, Superior constrictor. Temporal, uternal pterygoid. External pterygoid.