MUSCLES AND FASCIA 366 softer and more delicate organs. The fasciae have been subdivided, from the situation in which they are found, into two groups, superficial and deep. The superficial fascia is found immediately beneath the integument over almost the entire surface of the body. It connects the skin with the deep or aponeurotic fascia, and consists of fibro-areolar tissue, containing in its meshes pellicles of fat in varying quantity. In the eyelids and scrotum, where adipose tissue is rarely deposited, this tissue is very liable to serous infiltration. The superficial fascia varies in thickness in different parts of the body: in the groin it is so thick as to be capable of being subdivided in several laminae, but in the palm of the hand it is of extreme thinness, and intimately adherent to the integument. The superficial fascia is capable of separation into two or more layers, between which are found the superficial vessels and nerves, as the superficial epigastric vessels in the abdominal region, the radial and ulnar veins in the forearm, the saphenous veins in the leg and thigh, and the superficial lymphatic glands ; certain cutaneous muscles also are situated in the superficial fascia, as the Platysma myoides in the neck, and the Orbicularis palpebrarum around the eyelids. This fascia is most distinct at the lower part of the abdomen, the scrotum, perinaeum, and extremities ; is very thin in those regions where muscular fibres are inserted into the integument, as on the side of the neck, the face, and around the margin of the anus. It is very dense in the scalp, in the palms of the hands, and soles of the feet, forming a fibro-fatty layer, which binds the integument firmly to the subjacent structure. The superficial fascia connects the skin to the subjacent parts, facilitates the movement of the skin, serves as a soft nidus for the passage of vessels and nerves to the integument, and retains the warmth of the body, since the fat contained in its areolae is a bad conductor of caloric. The cleei) fascia is a dense inelastic unyielding fibrous membrane, forming sheaths for the muscles, and affording them broad surfaces for attachment. It consists of shining tendinous fibres, placed parallel with one another, and connected together by other fibres disposed in a rectilinear manner. It is usually exposed on the removal of the superficial fascia, forming a strong investment, which not only binds down collectively the muscles in each region, but gives a separate sheath to each, as well as to the vessels and nerves. The fasciae are thick in unprotected situations, as on the outer side of a limb, and thinner on the inner side. The deep fascia assist the muscles in their action, by the degree of tension and pressure they make upon their surface : and, in certain situations, this is increased and regulated by muscular action, as, for instance, by the Tensor vagina femoris and Gluteus maxi- mus in the thigh, by the Biceps in the upper and lower extremities, and Palmaris longus in the hand. In the limbs, the fasciae not only invest the entire limb, but give off septa which separate the various muscles, and are attached beneath to the periosteum : these prolongations of fasciae are usually spoken of as intermuscular septa. The Muscles and Fasciae may be arranged, according to the general division of the body, into those of the cranium, face, and neck ; those of the trunk; those of the upper extremity ; and those of the lower extremity. MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE CEANIUM AND FACE The muscles of the Cranium and Face consist of ten groups, arranged according to the region in which they are situated. 1. Cranial Kegion. 6. Superior Maxillary Eegion. 2. Auricular Eegion. 7. Inferior Maxillary Eegion. 3. Palpebral Eegion. 8. Intermaxillary Eegion. 4. Orbital Eegion. 9. Temporo-maxillary Eegion. 5. Nasal Eegion. 10. Pterygo-maxillary Eegion.