ARTERIES 584 this \ essel may be easily secured by making an incision on the radial side of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris: the deep fascia being divided, and the Flexor carpi ulnaris and its companion mnscle, the Flexor sublimis, being separated from each other, the vessel will be exposed, accompanied by its vena^ coniites, the ulnar nerve lying on its inner side. The veins being separated from the artery, the ligature should be passed from the ulnar to the radial side, taking care to avoid the ulnar nerve. The branches of the ulnar artery may be arranged in the following groups:— /Anterior Ulnar Recurrent. I Posterior Ulnar Recurrent. Anterior Interosseous. Forearm. Interosseous , . I Posterior Interosseous. Muscular. Wrist, i ^i^^^^^io^^ Carpal. ( Posterior Carpal. Hand ' ^Superficial Palmar Arch. (Deep Palmar or Communicating. The anterior ulnar recurrent (fig. 365) arises immediately below the elbow- joint, passes upwards and inwards between the Brachialis anticus and Pronator radii teres, supplies those muscles, and, in front of the inner condyle, anastomoses with the anastomotica magna and inferior profunda. The posterior ulnar recurrent is much larger, and arises somewhat lower than the preceding. It passes backwards and inwards, beneath the Flexor sublimis, and ascends behind the inner condyle of the humerus. In the interval between this process and the olecranon, it lies beneath the Flexor carpi ulnaris, ascending between the heads of that muscle, beneath the ulnar nerve ; it supplies the neigh- bouring muscles and joint, and anastomoses with the inferior profunda, anasto- motica magna, and interosseous recurrent arteries (fig. 366). The interosseous artery (fig. 365) is a short trunk about an inch in length, and of considerable size, which arises immediately below the tuberosity of the radius, and, passing backwards to the upper border of the interosseous membrane, divides into two branches, the anterior a^iid j^osterior interosseous. The anterior interosseous passes down the forearm on the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane, to which it is connected by a thin aponeurotic arch. It is accompanied by the interosseous branch of the median nerve, and overlapped by the contiguous margins of the Flexor profundus digitorum and Flexor longus pollicis muscles, giving oft' in this situation muscular branches, and the nutrient arteries of the radius and ulna. At the upper border of the Pronator quadratus, a branch descends beneath the muscle, to anastomose in front of the carpus wdth branches from the anterior carpal and deep palmar arch. The continuation of the artery passes behind the Pronator quadratus, and, piercing the interosseous membrane, gets to the back of the forearm, and anastomoses with the posterior interosseous artery (fig. 366). It then descends to the back of the wrist to join the posterior carpal arch. The anterior interosseous gives off a long, slender branch, the median artery, which accompanies the median nerve, and gives oft'sets to its substance. This artery is sometimes much enlarged. It also gives oft* nutrient branches to the radius and ulna about the middle of the forearm. The posterior interosseous artery passes backwards through the interval between the oblique ligament and the upper border of the interosseous membrane. It appears between the contiguous borders of the Supinator brevis and the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and runs down the back part of the forearm, between the superficial and deep layer of muscles, to both of which it distributes branches. At the lower part of the forearm it anastomoses with the termination of the anterior interosseous artery. Then, contmuing its course over the head of the ulna, it joins the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery. This artery gives oft", near its origin, the interosseous recurrent hrancli. The interosseous recurrent artery is a large vessel Avhich ascends to the interval between the external condyle and olecranon, on or through the fibres of the