635 OF THE NECK the middle meningeal veins, the deep temporal, the pterygoid, masseteric, buccal, alveolar, some palatine veins, and the inferior dental. These branches form a large plexus, the pterygoid, which is placed between the Temporal and External pterygoid, and partly between the Pterygoid muscles. This plexus communicates very freely with the facial vein, and with the cavernous sinus, by branches through the foramen Vesalii at the base of the skull. The trunk of the vein then passes backwards, behind the neck of the lower jaw, and unites with the temporal vein, forming the temporo-maxillary vein. The Temporo-maxillary Vein, formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary veins, descends in the substance of the parotid gland on the outer surface of the external carotid artery, between the ramus of the jaw and the Sterno-mastoid muscle, and divides into two branches, one of which passes inwards to join the facial vein ; the other is joined by the posterior auricular vein and becomes the external jugular. The Posterior Auricular Vein commences upon the side of the head, by a plexus-which communicates with the tributaries of the temporal and occipital veins. The vein descends behind the external ear and joins the temporo-maxillary vein, forming the external jugular. This vessel receives the stylo-mastoid vein, and some tributaries from the back part of the external ear. The Occipital Veins commence at the back part of the vertex of the skull, by a plexus, in a similar manner to the other veins. These unite and form one or two veins, which follow the course of the occipital artery, passing deeply beneath the muscles of the back part of the neck, and terminate in the internal jugular, occasionally in the external jugular vein. As these veins pass across the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, one of them receives the mastoid vein, which thus establishes a communication with the lateral sinus. The veins of the neck, which return the blood from the head and face, are, the The External Jugular Vein receives the greater part of the blood from the exterior of the cranium and deep parts of the face, being formed by the junction of the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary and posterior auricular veins. It commences in the substance of the parotid gland, on a level with the angle of the lower jaw, and runs perpendicularly down the neck, in the direction of a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. In its course it crosses the Sterno-mastoid muscle, and runs parallel with its posterior border as far as its attachment to the clavicle, where it perforates the deep fascia, and terminates in the subclavian vein, on the outer side of or in front of the Scalenus anticus muscle. In the neck it is separated from the Sterno-mastoid by the anterior layer of the deep cervical fascia, and is covered by the Platysma, the superficial fascia, and the integument. This vein is crossed about its middle by the super- ficialis colli nerve, and its upper half is accompanied by the auricularis magnus nerve. The external jugular vein varies in size, bearing an inverse proportion to that of the other veins of the neck ; it is occasionally double. It is provided with two pairs of valves, the lower pair being placed at its entrance into the subclavian vein, the upper pair in most cases about an inch and a half above the clavicle. The portion of vein between the two sets of valves is often dilated, and is termed the sinus. These valves do not prevent the regurgitation of the blood, or the passage of injection from below upwards.* * The student may refer to an interesting paper by Dr. Strnthers, 'On Jugular Venesection in Asphyxia, anatomically and experimentally considered, including the Demonstration of Valves in the Veins of the Neck,' in the Edinburgh Medical Journal for November 1856. Veins of the Neck External Jugular. Posterior External Jugular. Vertebral. Anterior Jugular. Internal Jugular.