THE SKELETON l62 infra-orbital, opens just below the margin of the orbit; the other, which is smaller, runs in the substance of the anterior wall of the antrum ; it is called the anterior dental canal, and transmits the anterior dental vessels and nerve to the fi-ont teeth of the upper jaw. From the back part of the infra-orbital canal, a second small canal is sometimes given off, Avhich runs in the substance of the bone, and conveys the middle dental nerve to the bicuspid teeth. Occasionally, this canal is derived from the anterior dental. At the inner and fore part of the orbital surface, just external to the lachrymal groove for the nasal duct, is a depression, which gives origin.to the Inferior oblique muscle of the eye. . The internal surface (fig. 155) is unequally divided into two parts by a hori- zontal projection of bone, the palate j^'i'ocess : the portion above the palate process forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossae; that below it forms part of the cavity of the mouth. The superior division of this surface presents a large, irre- gular opening leading into the antrum of Highmore. At the upper border of this aperture are numerous broken cellular cavities, which, in the articulated skull, are Fig. 155.—Left superior maxillary bone. Inner surface. closed in by the ethmoid and lachrymal bones. Below the aperture is a smooth concavity which forms part of the inferior meatus of the nasal fossae, and behind it is a rough surface which articulates with the perpendicular plate of the palate bone, traversed by a groove which, commencing near the middle of the posterior border, runs obliquely downwards and forwards, and forms, when completed by its articulation with the palate-bone, the posterior 'palatine canal. In front of the opening of the antrum is a deep groove, converted into a canal by the lachrymal and inferior turbinated bones. It is called the lachiymal groove, and lodges the nasal duct. More anteriorly is a well-marked rough ridge, the inferior tur- binated crest, for articulation with the inferior turbinated bone. The concavity above this ridge forms part of the middle meatus of the nose ; whilst that below it forms part of the inferior meatus. The portion of this surface below the palate process is concave, rough and uneven, and perforated by numerous small foramina for the passage of nutrient vessels. It enters into the formation of the roof of the mouth. The Antrum of Highmore, or Maxillary Sinus, is a large, pyramidal cavity.