536 AKTEEIES The submaxillary consist of three or four large branches, which supply the submaxillary gland, some being pi:olonged to the neighbouring muscles, lymphatic glands, and integument. The submental, the largest of the cervical branches, is given off from the facial artery just as that vessel quits the submaxillary gland : it runs forwards upon the Mylo-hyoid muscle, just below the body of the jaw, and beneath the Digastric ; after supplying the surrounding muscles, and anastomosing with the sublingual artery by branches which perforate the Mylo-hyoid muscle, it arrives at the symphysis of the chin, where it turns over the border of the jaw and divides into a superficial and a deep branch ; the former passes between the integument and Depressor labii inferioris, supplies both, and anastomoses with the inferior labial. The deep branch passes between the latter muscle and the bone, supplies the lip, and anastomoses with the inferior labial and mental arteries. The muscular branches are distributed to the Internal pterygoid and Stylo- hyoid in the neck, and to the Masseter and Buccinator on the face. The inferior labial passes beneath the Depressor anguli oris, to supply the muscles and integument of the lower lip, anastomosing with the inferior coronary and submental branches of the facial, and with the mental branch of the inferior dental artery. The inferior coronary is derived from the facial artery, near the angle of the mouth ; it passes upwards and inwards beneath the Depressor anguli oris, and, penetrating the Orbicularis oris muscle, runs in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane, inosculating with the artery of the opposite side. This artery supplies the labial glands, the mucous membrane, and muscles of the lower lip ; and anastomoses with the inferior labial and the mental branch of the inferior dental artery. The superior coronary is larger and more tortuous in its course than the preceding. It follows the same course along the edge of the upper lip, lying between the mucous membrane and the Orbicularis oris, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. It supplies the textures of the upper lip, and gives off in its course two or three vessels which ascend to the nose. One, named the inferior artery of the septum, ramifies on the septum of the nares as far as the point of the nose; another, the artery of the ala, supplies the ala of the nose. The lateralis nasi is derived from the facial, as that vessel is ascending along the side of the nose; it supplies the ala and dorsum of the nose, anastomosing with its fellow, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, the inferior artery of the septum, the artery of the ala, and the infra-orbital. The angular artery is the termination of the trunk of the facial; it ascends to the inner angle of the orbit, embedded in the fibres of the Levator labii superi- oris alasque nasi, and accompanied by a large vein, the angular ; it distributes some branches on the cheek which anastomose with the infra-orbital, and, after supplying the lachrymal sac and Orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, terminates by anastomosing with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The anastomoses of the facial artery are very numerous, not only with the vessel of the opposite side, but, in the neck, with the sublingual branch of the lingual; with the ascending pharyngeal; with the posterior palatine, a branch of the internal maxillary, by its inferior or ascending palatine and tonsillar branches ; on the face, with the mental branch of the inferior dental as it emerges from the mental foramen, with the transverse facial, a branch of the temporal; with the infra-orbital, a branch of the internal maxillary, and with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. Peculiarities,—The facial artery not unfrequently arises by a common trunk with the lingual. This vessel is also subject to some variations in its size, and in the extent to which it supplies the face. It occasionally terminates as the submental, and not unfre- quently supplies the face only as high as the angle of the mouth or nose. The deficiency is then supplied by enlargement of one of the neighbouring arteries. Surgical Anatomy.—The passage of the facial artery over the body of the jaw would appear to afford a favourable position for the application of pressure in cases of hsemorrhage