ARTICULATIONS 360 though, on account of the spongy character of the bones, they are more frequently broken than dislocated, as the result of violence. When dislocation does occur, it is most commonly in connection with the astragalus; for not only may this bone be dislocated from the tibia and fibula at the ankle-joint, but the other bones may be dislocated from it, the trochlear surface of the bone remaining in situ in the tibio-fibular mortise. This constitutes what is known as the suh-astragaloid dislocation. Or, again, the astragalus may be dislocated from all its connections—fi^om the tibia and fibula above, the os calcis below, and the navicular in front—and may even undergo a rotation, either on a vertical or horizontal axis. In the former case the long axis of the bone becoming directed across the joint, so that the head faces the articular surface on one or other malleolus; or, in the latter, the lateral surfaces becoming directed upwards and downwards, so that the trochlear surface faces to one or the other side. Finally, dislocation may occur at the medio- tarsal joint, the anterior tarsal bones being luxated from the astragalus and calcaneum. The other tarsal bones are also, occasionally, though rarely, dislocated from their connections. VI. Taeso-metataesal Articulations These are arthrodial joints. The bones entering into their formation are four tarsal bones, viz. the internal, middle and external cuneiform, and the cuboid, which articulate with the metatarsal bones of the five toes. The metatarsal bone of the great toe articulates with the internal cuneiform ; that of the second is deeply wedged in between the internal and external cuneiform, resting against the middle cuneiform, and being the most strongly articulated of all the metatarsal bones ; the third metatarsal articulates with the extremity of the external cuneiform ; the fourth, with the cuboid and external cuneiform ; and the fifth, with the cuboid. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage, lined by synovial membrane, and connected together by the following ligaments :— Dorsal. Plantar. Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments consist of strong, flat, fibrous bands, which connect the tarsal with the metatarsal bones. The first metatarsal is connected to the internal cuneiform by a single broad, thin, fibrous band; the second has three dorsal ligaments, one from each cuneiform bone ; the third has one from the external cuneiform; the fourth has two, one from the external cuneiform and one from the cuboid; and the fifth, one from the cuboid. The Plantar Ligaments consist of longitudinal and oblique, fibrous bands connecting the tarsal and metatarsal bones, but disposed with less regularity than on the dorsal surface. Those for the first and second metatarsal are the most strongly marked; the second and third metatarsal receive strong fibrous bands, which pass obliquely across from the internal cuneiform ; the plantar ligaments of the fourth and fifth metatarsal consist of a feAv scanty fibres derived from the cuboid. The Interosseous Ligaments are three in number : internal, middle, and external. The internal one passes from the outer extremity of the internal cuneiform to the adjacent angle of the second metatarsal. The middle one, less strong than the preceding, connects the external cuneiform with the adjacent angle of the second metatarsal. The external interosseous ligament connects the outer angle of the external cuneiform with the adjacent side of the third metatarsal. The Synovial Membrane between the internal cuneiform bone and the first metatarsal bone is a distinct sac. The synovial membrane between the middle and external cuneiform behind, and the second and third metatarsal bones in front, is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. Tw^o prolongations are sent forwards from it, one between the adjacent sides of the second and third metatarsal bones, and one between the third and fourth metatarsal bones. The synovial membrane between the cuboid and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones is a distinct sac. From it a prolongation is sent forwards between the fourth and fifth metatarsal Lones. Actions.—The movements permitted between the tarsal and metatarsal bones are limited to a slight gliding upon each other.