6i8 ARTEEIES Plan of the Relations of the Profunda Arteey In front. Femoral and Profunda veins. Adductor lonf^ns. Outer side. Vastus internus. Beliind. Iliacus. Pectineus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. The External Circumflex Artery supplies the muscles on the front of the thigh. It arises from the outer side of the profunda, passes horizontally out- wards, between the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and behind the Sartorius and Rectus muscles, and divides into three sets of branches, ascending, transverse, and descending. The ascending branches pass upwards, beneath the Tensor vaginae femoris muscle, to the outer side of the hip, anastomosing with the terminal branches of the gluteal and circumflex iliac arteries. The descending branches, three or four in number, pass downwards, behind the Rectus, upon the Vasti muscles to which they are distributed, one or two passing beneath the Vastus externus as far as the knee, anastomosing with the superior articular branches of the popliteal artery. These are accompanied by the branch of the anterior crural nerve to the Vastus externus. The transverse branches, the smallest and least numerous, pass outwards over the Crureus, pierce the Vastus externus, and wind round the femur to its back part, just below the great trochanter, anastomosing at the back of the thigh with the internal circumflex, sciatic, and superior perforating arteries. The Internal Circumflex Artery, smaller than the external, arises from the inner and back part of the profunda, and winds round the inner side of the femur, between the Pectineus and Psoas muscles. On reaching the upper border of the Adductor brevis, it gives off two branches, one of which passes inwards to be distributed to the Adductor muscles, the Gracilis, and Obturator externus, anasto- mosing with the obturator artery; the other descends, and passes beneath the Adductor brevis, to supply it and the great Adductor ; while the continuation of the vessel passes backwards, between the Quadratus femoris and upper border of the Adductor magnus, anastomosing with the sciatic, external circumflex, and superior perforating arteries (' the crucial anastomosis '). Opposite the hip-joint, this branch gives off an articular vessel, which enters the joint beneath the trans- verse ligament; and, after supplying the adipose tissue, passes along the round ligament to the head of the bone. The Perforating Arteries (fig. 375), usually three in number, are so called from their perforating the tendon of the Adductor magnus muscle to reach the back of the thigh. The first is given off above the Adductor brevis, the second in front of that muscle, and the third immediately below it. The first or superior perforating artery passes backwards between the Pectineus and Adductor brevis (sometimes perforates the latter); it then pierces the Adductor magnus close to the linea aspera, and divides into branches which supply the Adductor brevis, the Adductor magnus, the Biceps, and Gluteus maximus muscle ; anastomosing with the sciatic, internal and external circumflex, and middle per- forating arteries.