135 OCCIPITAL BONE The inferior curved line, and the depressions below it, afford insertion to the Rectus capitis posticus, major and minor. The foramen mag-mim is a large, oval aperture, its long diameter extending from before backwards. It transmits the medulla oblongata and its membranes, the spinal accessory nerves, the vertebral arteries, the anterior and posterior spinal arteries, and the occipito-axial ligaments. Its back part is wide for the transmission of the medulla, and the corresponding margin rough for the attachment of the dura mater enclosing it; the fore part is narrower, being encroached upon by the condyles ; it has projecting towards it, from below, the odontoid process, and its margins are smooth and bevelled internally to support the medulla oblongata. On each side of the foramen magnum are the condyles, for articulation with the atlas ; they are convex, oblong or reniform in shape, and directed downwards and out- wards ; they converge in front, and encroach slightly upon the anterior segment of Fig. 130.—Occipital bone. Outer surface. the foramen. On the inner border of each condyle is a rough tubercle for the attachment of the ligaments {check) which connect this bone with the odontoid process of the axis; whilst external to them is a rough tubercular prominence, i'hQ transverse ot jugular process (the representative of the transverse process of a vertebra), channelled in front by a deep notch, which forms part of the jugular foramen, or foramen lacerum posterius. The under surface of this process presents an eminence, which represents the paramastoicl process of some mammals. The eminence is occasionally large, and extends as low as the transverse process of the atlas. This surface affords attachment to the Rectus capitis lateralis muscle and to the lateral occipito-atlantal ligament; its upper or cerebral surface presents a deep groove which lodges part of the lateral sinus, whilst its external surface is marked by a quadrilateral rough facet, covered with cartilage in the fresh state, and articu- lating with a similar surface on the petrous portion of the temporal bone. On the outer side of each condyle, near its fore part, is a foramen, the anterior condyloid;