THE EPIGASTEIG OR SOLAR PLEXUS 8,9 Phrenic or Diaphragmatic plexus. f Gastric plexus. Suprarenal plexus. Coeliac plexus < Splenic plexus. Renal plexus. L Hepatic plexus. Spermatic plexus. Superior mesenteric plexus. Aortic plexus. The phrenic plexus accompanies the phrenic artery to the Diaphragm, which it supplies ; some filaments passing to the suprarenal capsule. It arises from the upper part of the semilunar ganglion, and is larger on the right than on the left side. It receives one or two branches from the phrenic nerve. In connection with this plexus, on the right side, at its point of junction with the phrenic nerve, is a small ganglion (ganglion diaphretgmaticum). This ganglion is placed on the under surface of the Diaphragm, near the suprarenal capsule. Its branches are distributed to the inferior vena cava, suprarenal capsule, and the hepatic plexus. There is no ganglion on the left side. The suprarenal plexus is formed by branches from the solar plexus, from the semilunar ganglion, and from the phrenic and great splanchnic nerves, a ganglion being formed at the point of junction of the latter nerve. It supplies the supra- renal capsule. The branches of this plexus are remarkable for their large size, in comparison with the size of the organ they supply. The renal plexus is formed by filaments from the solar plexus, the outer part of the semilunar ganglion, and the aortic plexus. It is also joined by filaments from the lesser and smallest splanchnic nerves. The nerves from these sources, fifteen or twenty in number, have numerous ganglia developed upon them. They accompany the branches of the renal artery into the kidney ; some filaments on the right side being distributed to the inferior vena cava, and others to the spermatic plexus, on both sides. The spermatic plexus is derived from the renal plexus, receiving branches from the aortic plexus. It accompanies the spermatic vessels to the testes. In the female, the ovarian plexus is distributed to the ovaries and fundus of the uterus. The coeliac plexus, of large size, is a direct continuation from the solar plexus : it surrounds the coeliac axis, and subdivides into the gastric, hepatic, and splenic plexuses. It receives branches from the lesser splanchnic nerves, and, on the left side, a filament from the right pneumogastric. The gastric or coronary plexus accompanies the gastric artery along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and joins with branches from the left pneumogastric nerve. It is distributed to the stomach. The hepatic plexus, the largest offset from the coeliac plexus, receives filaments', from the left pneumogastric and right phrenic nerves. It accompanies the hepatic artery, ramifying in the substance of the liver upon its branches, and upon those of the vena portas. Branches from this plexus accompany all the divisions of the hepatic artery. Thus there is a pyloric plexus accompanying the pyloric branch of the hepatic, which joins with the gastric plexus and pneumogastric nerves^ There is also a gastro-duodenal plexus, which subdivides into the pancreatico-duodenal plexus, which accompanies the pancreatico-duodenal artery, to supply the pancreas and duodenum, joining with branches from the mesenteric plexus ; and a gastro-epiploio plexus, which accompanies the right gastro-epiploic artery along the greater cur- vature of the stomach, and anastomoses with branches from the splenic plexus. A cystic plexus, which supplies the gall-bladder, also arises from the hepatic plexus,, near the liver. The splenic plex^is is formed by branches from the coeliac plexus, the left semi- lunar ganglia, and from the right pneumogastric nerve. It accompanies the splenic artery and its branches to the substance of the spleen, giving off, in its course, filaments to the pancreas {pancreatic plexus), and the left gastro-epiploic plexusy which accompanies the gastro-epiploica sinistra artery along the convex border of the stomach. 3 G 2