THE SKELETON Fig. 128.—Coccyx. Cornua Anterior surface cornua of the sacrum, the junction between these two bones completmg the fifth posterior sacral foramen for the transmission of the posterior division of the fifth sacral nerve. The lateral horders are thin, and present a series of small eminences, which represent the transverse processes of the coccygeal vertebrae. Of these, the first on each side is the largest, flattened from before back- wards, and often ascends to join the lower part of the thin lateral edge of the sacrum, thus completing the fifth anterior sacral foramen for the trans- mission of the anterior division of the fifth sacral nerve ; the others diminish in size from above downwards, and are often wanting. The horders of the coccyx are narroAV, and give attachment on each side to the sacro-sciatic ligaments, to the Coccygeus muscle in front of the ligaments, and to the Gluteus maximus behind them. The base presents an oval surface for articulation with the sacrum. The a'i)ex is rounded, and has attached to it the tendon of the external Sphincter muscle. It is occasionally bifid, and sometimes deflected to one or other side. Development.—The coccyx is developed by four centres, one for each piece. Occasionally one of the first three pieces of this bone is developed by two centres, placed side by side. The ossific nuclei make their appearance in the following order : in the first segment, at birth ; in the second piece, at from five to ten years; in the third, from ten to fifteen years ; in the fourth, from fifteen to twenty years. As age advances, these various seg- ments become united in the folloAving order : the first two pieces join; then the third and fourth ; and, lastly, the bone is completed by the union of the second and third. At a late period of life, especially in females, the coccyx often becomes joined to the end of the sacrum. Articulation.—With the sacrum. Attachment of Muscles.—To four pairs and one single muscle : on either side, the Coccygeus ; behind, the Gluteus maximus and Extensor coccygis, when present; at the apex, the Sphincter ani; and in front, the Levator ani. Posterior surface Of the Spine in general The Spinal Column, formed by the junction of the vertebrae, is situated in the median line, at the posterior part of the trunk; its average length is about two feet two or three inches, measuring along the curved anterior surface of the column. Of this length the cervical part measures about five, the dorsal about eleven, the lumbar about seven inches, and the sacrum and coccyx the remainder. The female spine is about one inch less than the male. Viewed in front, it presents two pyramids joined together at their bases, the upper one being formed by all the vertebrae from the second cervical to the last lumbar, the lower one by the sacrum and coccyx. When examined more closely, the upper pyramid is seen to be formed of three smaller pyramids. The upper- most of these consists of the six lower cervical vertebrae ; its apex being formed by the axis or second cervical, its base by the first dorsal. The second pyramid, which is inverted, is formed by the four upper dorsal vertebrae, the base being at the first dorsal, the smaller end at the fourth. The third pyramid commences at the fourth dorsal, and gradually increases in size to the fifth lumbar.