95 DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART muscle and cartilage, before the appearance of any internal cleft for the joints between the chief bones. The muscles become visible about the seventh or eighth week. The source of their development is not completely determined for the muscles of the limbs. The vertebral muscles appear to be developed from the ' muscle-plates ' of the primitive vertebral discs (page 76, see fig. 79, c, 13), and the muscles of the neck and jaws, as well as those which enclose the cavities of the thorax and abdomen, are also formed from the same source. They do not meet in the middle line of the body till about the fourth month. The cutaneous muscles are developed from the cutaneous portion of the middle blastodermic layer. Development of the Blood-vascular System.—There are three distinct stages in the development of the circulatory system before it arrives at its complete or adult condition, in accordance with the manner in which nourishment is provided for at different periods of the existence of the individual. In the first stage there is the vitelline circulation, during which nutriment is extracted from the yolk or contents of the vitelline membrane. In the second stage there is the ijlacental circulation, which commences after the formation of the placenta, and during which nutrition is obtained by means of this organ from the blood of the mother. In the third stage there is the complete circulation of the adult, commencing at birth, and during which nutrition is provided for by the organs of the individual itself. I. The vitelline circulation is carried on partly within the body of the embryo and partly external to it in the vascular area of the yolk. It consists of a median tubular heart, from which two vessels (arteries) project anteriorly. These carry the blood to a plexus of capillaries spread over the area vasculosa, and also, though to a less extent, in the body of the embryo. From this plexus the blood is returned by two vessels (veins) which enter the heart posteriorly, and thus a complete circulation is formed. In these vessels and the heart a fluid (blood) is contained, in which rudimentary corpuscles are found. The mode of formation of these elementary parts will have first to be considered. In mammalia the heart is formed by a hollowing out or vacuolation of a longi- tudinal group of mesoblastic cells on either side of the median line in front of the anterior extremity of the rudimentary pharynx, at about the level of the posterior primary cerebral vesicle. This vacuolation takes place in the visceral layer of the mesoblast, and round the cavity thus formed the layer becomes folded or reduplicated, and presents two distinct strata of cells ; the inner and thinner layer forms the endocardium, the outer and thicker the muscular wall of the heart. In its very earliest and primitive condition, the heart consists therefore of a pair of tubes, one on either side of the body. These, however, soon coalesce in the median line, and, fusing together, form a single central tube.* Each of the two primary tubes receives posteriorly a large vessel (a vein), and is prolonged anteriorly into a second vessel (an artery). So that after fusion of the heart-tubes has taken place, there is, in the primitive vitelline circulation, as above mentioned, a single tubular heart, with two arteries proceeding from it and two veins emptying themselves into it. The earliest vessels are also formed in the visceral layer of the mesoblast. They are developed from that part of the mesoblast which surrounds the portion of blastoderm which is occupied by the developing body of the embryo and w^hich is known as the 'vascular area.' So that the first blood-vessels are developed outside the body of the embryo. The indifferent cells of which this layer is composed become ' vacuo- lated,' that is, they become enlarged, and spaces are formed within them. The nuclei of these enlarged cells multiply; some few of the proliferated nuclei remain embedded in the walls of the cell, but the greater number of them are free and are converted into blood-corpuscles. The vacuolated cells fuse together, forming cavities, and also give off processes which unite with processes of other cells : * In most fishes and in amphibia the heart originates as a single median tube.