458 MUSCLES AND FASCIA Fig. 306.—Front of the left forearm.. Superficial miTScles. the preceding. It arises from the inner condyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the deep fascia, and the intermuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. It terminates in a slender, flattened tendon, which passes over the annular hgament, to end in the palmar fascia, frequently sending a tendinous slip to the short muscles of the thumb. This muscle is often absent. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the deep fascia. By its deep surface, with the Flexor sublimis digitorum. Inter- nally, with the Flexor carpi ulnaris. Ex- ternally, with the Flexor carpi radialis. The median nerve lies close to the tendon, just above the wrist, on its inner and posterior side. The Flexor carpi ulnaris lies along the ulnar side of the forearm. It arises by two heads, connected by a tendinous arch, beneath which pass the ulnar nerve and posterior ulnar recurrent artery. One head arises from the inner condyle of the humerus by the common tendon ; the other, from the inner margin of the olecranon, by an aponeurosis from the upper two-thirds of the posterior border of the ulna, in common with the Extensor carpi ulnaris and the Flexor profundus digitorum ; and from the inter- muscular septum between it and the Flexor sublimis digitorum. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which occupies the anterior part of the lower half of the muscle, and is in- serted into the pisiform bone, and is pro- longed from this to the fifth metacarpal and unciform bones by the piso-metacarpal and piso-uncinate ligaments and to the annular ligament. The ulnar artery lies on the outer side of the tendon of this muscle, in the lower two-thirds of the forearm; the ten- don forming a guide in tying the vessel in this situation. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the deep fascia, with which it is inti- mately connected for a considerable extent. By its deep surface, with the Flexor sublimis digitorum, the Flexor profundus digitorum, the Pronator quadratus, and the ulnar vessels and nerve. By its outer or radial border, with the Palmaris longus above, and the ulnar vessels and nerve below. The Flexor sublimis digitorum {per- foratus) is placed beneath the preceding muscles, which therefore must be removed in order to bring its attachment into view. It is the largest of the muscles of the superficial layer, and arises by three heads. One head arises from the internal condyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the internal lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, and from the intermuscular septum common to it and the preceding muscles. The second head arises from the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna, above the ulnar origin of the Pronator radii teres (fig. 200, p. 227). The third head arises from the oblique line of the radius, extending from