T026 MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION The Tunica Vasculosa (jj/a mater testis) is the vascular layer of the testis, consisting of a plexus of blood-vessels, held together by a delicate areolar tissue. It covers the inner surface of the tunica albuginea and the different septa in the interior of the gland, and therefore forms an internal investment to all the spaces of which the gland is composed. Structure.—The glandular structure of the testis consists of numerous lobules (lohiill testis). Their number, in a single testis, is estimated by Berres at 250, and by Krause at 400. They differ in size according to their position, those in the middle of the gland being larger and longer. The lobules are conical in shape, the base being directed towards the circumference of the organ, the apex towards the mediastinum. Each lobule is contained in one of the intervals between the fibrous cords and vascular processes w^hich extend between the mediastinum testis and the tunica albuginea, and consists of from one to three, or more, minute convoluted tubes, the tuhuli seminiferi. The tubes may be separately unravelled, by careful dissection under water, and may be seen to commence either by free c^cal ends, or by anastomotic loops. The total number of tubes is considered by Munro to be about 300, and the length of each about sixteen feet; by Lauth, their number is estimated at 840, and their average length two feet and a quarter. Their diameter varies from oott to of an inch. The tubuli are pale in colour in early life, but in old age they acquire a deep yellow tinge, from containing much fatty matter. They consist of a membrana propria, inside which are several layers of epithelial cells, the seminal cells. The membrana propria is a hyaline structure, consisting of several membranous layers, containing oval flattened nuclei, at regular intervals, super- imposed on one another. The seminal cells or lining epithelium differ in different tubules. In some tubes they may be seen to consist of an outer layer, next the membrana propria, and two or more layers of inner cells. The former cells are more or less polyhedral in shape, uniform in size, and contain an oval or spherical nucleus; the latter cells, those comprising the inner layers, are spherical and more loosely connected together. The nucleus of most or all of them is in the process of indirect division (karyokinesis, page 8), and in consequence of this numerous small spherical daughter-cells are to be seen, lying nearest to the lumen and closely connected together. These small daughter-cells are named syermatohlasts, and by a series of changes become converted into spermatozoa. In other tubes the gradual transition of the spermatoblasts into spermatozoa may be traced. In some tubes or parts of tubes the daughter-cells may be seen to have assumed a pear shape^ with the pointed end, in which the nucleus is to be found, directed towards the inner seminal cells, while the broad part is directed into the lumen of the tube. In other parts of a tube the broad end may be seen to have become elongated into a rod-shaped body, which constitutes the middle piece of the spermatozoon, while the nucleus forms the head. Again, in other parts of the tubes these young spermatozoa may be seen collected together into fan-shaped groups, and from their distal end—that is to say, the end projecting into the lumen of the tube—a thin long filament, called the tail, is growing out. In the young subject the seminal cells present somewhat the appearance of an epithelial lining, and do not almost fill the tube, as in the adult testis. The tubules are enclosed in a delicate plexus of capillary vessels, and are held together by an intertubular connective tissue, which presents large interstitial spaces lined by endothelium, which are believed to be the rootlets of the lymphatic vessels of the testis. In the apices of the lobules, the tubuli become less convoluted, assume a nearly straight course, and unite together to form from twenty to thirty larger ducts, of about -V^ti of an inch in diameter, and these, from their straight course, are called vasa recta. The vasa recta enter the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum, and pass upwards and backwards, forming, in their ascent, a close network of anastomosing tubes which are merely channels in the fibrous stroma, having no proper walls ; this constitutes the rete testis. At the upper end of the mediastinum, the vessels of