THE SKELETON 232 The Upper Extremity presents a head, neck, and tuberosity. The head is of a cyhndrical form, depressed on its upper surface into a shallow cup which articulates with the capitellum or radial head of the humerus. In the recent state it is covered with a layer of cartilage, which is thinnest at its centre. Around the circumference of the head is a smooth, articular surface, broad internally where it articulates with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; narrow in the rest of its circumference, where it rotates within the orbicular ligament. It is coated with cartilage in the recent state. The head is supported on a round, smooth, and constricted portion of bone, called the neck, which presents, behind, a slight ridge, for the attachment of part of the Supinator brevis. Beneath the neck, at the inner and front aspect of the bone, is a rough eminence, the hicipital tuberosity. Its surface is divided into two parts by a vertical line—a posterior, rough portion, for the insertion of the tendon of the Biceps muscle ; and an anterior, smooth portion, on which a bursa is interposed betAveen the tendon and the bone. The Shaft of the bone is prismoid in form, narrower above than below, and slightly curved, so as to be convex outwards. It presents three surfaces, separated by three borders. The anterior border extends from the lower part of the tuberosity above, to the anterior part of the base of the styloid process below. It separates the anterior from the external surface. Its upper third is very prominent ; and from its oblique direction, downwards and outwards, has received the name of the obliqzie line of the radius. It gives attachment, externally, to the Supinator brevis ; internally, to the Flexor longus pollicis, and between these to the Flexor sublimis digitorum. The middle third of the anterior border is indistinct and rounded. Its lower fourth is sharp, prominent, affords attachment to the Pronator quadratus, and terminates in a small tubercle, into which is inserted the tendon of the Supinator longus. The posterior border commences above, at the back part of the neck of the radius, and terminates below, at the posterior part of the base of the styloid process ; it separates the posterior from the external surface. It is indistinct above and below, but well marked in the middle third of the bone. The internal or interosseous border commences above, at the back part of the tuberosity, where it is rounded and indistinct, becomes sharp and prominent as it descends, and at its lower part divides into two ridges, which descend to the anterior and posterior margins of the sigmoid cavity. This border separates the anterior from the posterior surface, and has the interosseous membrane attached to it throughout the greater part of its extent. The anterior surface is narrow and concave for its upper three-fourths, and gives attachment to the Flexor longus pollicis muscle ; it is broad and flat for its lower fourth, and gives attachment to the Pronator quadratus. A prominent ridge limits the attachment of the Pronator quadratus below, and between this and the inferior border is a triangular rough surface for the attachment of the anterior ligament of the wrist-joint. At the junction of the upper and middle third of this surface is the nutrient foramen, which is directed obliquely upwards. The posterior surface is rounded, convex, and smooth in the upper third of its extent, and covered by the Supinator brevis muscle. Its middle third is broad, slightly concave, and gives attachment to the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis above, the Extensor brevis pollicis below. Its lower third is broad, convex, and covered by the tendons of the muscles, which subsequently run in the grooves on the lower end of the bone. The external surface is rounded and convex throughout its entire extent. Its upper third gives attachment to the Supinator brevis muscle. About its centre is seen a rough ridge, for the insertion of the Pronator radii teres muscle. Its lower part is narrow, and covered by the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and Extensor brevis pollicis muscles. The Lower Extremity of the radius is large, of quadrilateral form, and provided with two articular surfaces—one at the extremity, for articulation with the carpus,