THE COSTAL CARTILAGES 207 downwards. The upper surface of the shaft is marked by two shallow depressions, separated from one another by a small rough surface for the attachment of the Scalenus anticus muscle—the groove in front of it transmitting the subclavian vein, that behind it the subclavian artery. Between the groove for the subclavian artery and the tuberosity is a rough surface for the attachment of the Scalenus medius muscle. The under surface is smooth, and destitute of the groove observed on the other ribs. The outer border is convex, thick, and rounded, and at its posterior part gives attachment to the first serration of the Serratus magnus ; the inner is concave, thin, and sharp, and marked about its centre by the commence- ment of the rough surface for the Scalenus anticus. The anterior extremity is larger and thicker than any of the other ribs. The second rib (fig. 188) is much longer than the first, but bears a very con- siderable resemblance to it in the direction of its curvature. The non-articular portion of the tuberosity is occasionally only slightly marked. The angle is slight, and situated close to the tuberosity, and the shaft is not twisted, so that both ends touch any plane surface upon which it may be laid; but there is a similar though slighter bend, with its convexity upwards, to that found in the first rib. The shaft is not horizontal, like that of the first rib ; its outer surface, which is convex, look- ing upwards and a little outwards. It presents, near the middle, a rough eminence for the attachment of the second and third digitations of the Serratus magnus; behind and above which is attached the Scalenus posticus. The inner surface, smooth and concave, is directed downwards and a little inwards: it presents a short groove towards its posterior part. The tenth rib (fig. 189) has only a single articular facet on its head. The eleventh and twelfth ribs (figs. 190 and 191) have each a single articular facet on the head, which is of rather large size ; they have no neck or tuberosity, and are pointed at the extremity. The eleventh has a slight angle and a shallow groove on the lower border. The twelfth has neither, and is much shorter than the eleventh, and the head has a slight inclination downwards. Structure.—The ribs consist of cancellous tissue, enclosed in a thin, compact layer. Development.—Each rib, with the exception of the last two, is developed by three centres : one for the shaft, one for the head, and one for the tubercle. The last two have only two centres, that for the tubercle being wanting. Ossification commences in the shaft of the ribs at a very early period, before its appearance in the vertebra9. The epiphysis of the head, which is of a slightly angular shape, and that for the tubercle, of a lenticular form, make their appearance between the six- teenth and twentieth years, and are not united to the rest of the bone until about the twenty-fifth year. Attachment of Muscles.—To nineteen : the Internal and External intercostals. Scalenus anticus. Scalenus medius. Scalenus posticus, Pectoralis minor, Serratus magnus, Obliquus externus, Quadratus lumborum. Diaphragm, Latissimus dorsi, Serratus posticus superior, Serratus posticus inferior, Ilio-costalis, Musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem, Longissimus dorsi, Cervicalis ascendens, Levatores costarum, and Infra-costales. The Costal Cartilages The Costal Cartilages (fig. 179, p. 201) are white, elastic structures, which serve to prolong the ribs forward to the front of the chest, and contribute very materially to the elasticity of its walls. The first seven are connected with the sternum, the next three with the lower border of the cartilage of the preceding rib. The car- tilages of the last two ribs, which have pointed extremities, float freely in the walls of the abdomen. Like the ribs, the costal cartilages vary in their length, breadth, and direction. They increase in length from the first to the seventh, then gradually diminish to the last. They diminish in breadth, as well as the intervals between them, from the first to the last. They are broad at their attachment to