THE SMALL INTESTINE 917 ducts enter the intestine, they are very large and closely approximated. In the transverse portion of the duodenum and upper half of the jejunum they are large and numerous; and from this point, down to the middle of the ileum, they diminish considerably in size. In the lower part of the ileum they almost entirely disappear ; hence the comparative thinness of this portion of the intestine, as compared with the duodenum and jejunum. The valvulae conniventes retard the passage of the food along the intestines, and afford a more extensive surface for absorption. The villi are minute, highly vascular processes, projecting from the mucous membrane of the small intestine throughout its whole extent, and giving to its surface a velvety appearance. In shape some are triangular and laminated, others conical or cylindrical, with clubbed or filiform extremities. They are largest and most numerous in the duodenum and jejunum, and become fewer and smaller in the ileum. Krause estimates their number in the upper part of the small intestine at from fifty to ninety in a square line ; and in the lower part Fig. 534.—Villi of small intestine. (Cadiat.) from forty to seventy ; the total number for the whole length of the intestine being about four millions. Structure of the villi (fig. 533).—The structure of the villi has been studied recently by many eminent anatomists. We shall here follow the description of Dr. Watney,* whose researches have a most important bearing on the physiology of that which is the peculiar function of this part of the intestine, the absorp- tion of fat. The essential parts of a villus are, the lacteal vessel, the blood-vessels, the epithelium, the basement membrane and muscular tissue of the mucosa, these structures being supported and held together by retiform lymphoid tissue. These structures are arranged in the following manner. Situated in the centre of the villus is the lacteal, terminating near the summit in a blind extremity ; running along this vessel are unstriped muscular fibres ; surrounding it is a plexus of capillary vessels, the whole being enclosed by a basement membrane, supporting columnar epithelium. Those structures which are contained within the basement membrane—namely, the lacteal, the muscular tissue, and the blood-vessels—are * Phil. Trans, vol. clxvi. pt. ii.