882 OEGANS OF DIGESTION through the neck of the enamel germ with the deepest layer of cells of the oral eiDithelium become elongated and form a layer of well-marked and regular columnar epithelium coating the papilla. These are named the internal enamel epithelium. The outer layer of cells of the enamel germ, which are in contact with the inner surface of the dentinal sac, presently to be described, are much shorter, cubical in form, and are named the external enamel epithelium. All the intermediate round cells of the enamel germ between these two layers undergo a peculiar change. They become stellate in shape, and their processes unite to form a network, which resembles gelatinous connective tissue. While these changes have been going on, the soft embryonic tissue, from which the papillae arose, and which is situated beneath the enamel germs, grows upwards in the form of ridges, surrounding the rudimentary teeth and becoming converted into a vascular membrane, constituting a sac—the dentinal sac, ^MYAch encloses each tooth. As they grow upwards, the two ridges approach one another, and, pene- trating the lips of the primitive groove, they cause the neck of the enamel organ to atrophy and disappear; so that all communication between the enamel germ and the superficial epithelium is cut off. Fig. 515.—Vertical section of the inferior maxilla of an early human foetus. (Magnified 25 diameters.) We have now vascular papillae, surmounted by inverted caps or capsules of epithelial cells, the whole being surrounded by membranous sacs. The cap or capsule consists of an internal layer of cells—the internal enamel epithelium—in contact with the papilla ; of an external layer of cells—the external enamel epithe- lium—lining the interior of the dentinal sac ; and of an intermediate mass of stellate cells, with anastomosing processes (fig. 516). The enamel is formed exclusiyely from the internal enamel epithelium, the columnar cells of which undergo direct calcification and become elongated into the hexagonal rods of the enamel. The intermediate cells atrophy and disappear, so that the calcified internal enamel epithelium and the external enamel epithelium come into close apposition, and the cells of this latter layer form a distinct membrane, named the cuticitla dentis or Nasmyth's membrane, which long remains perceptible, and, after the tooth has emerged from the gums, forms a horny layer, which may be separated from the calcified mass below by the action of strong acids. It is marked by the hexagonal impressions of the enamel prisms, and when stained by nitrate of silver shows the characteristic appearance of epithelium. It soon, however, wears away from the surface of the tooth. Formatio7i of the Dentine.—While these changes are taking place in the