1003 THE URETERS be confounded. The examination of the kidney should be bimanual; that is to say, one hand should be placed in the flank and firm pressure made forwards, while the other hand is buried in the abdominal wall, just external to the semilunar line. Manipulation of the kidney frequently produces a peculiar sickening sensation, with sometimes faintness. The kidney is mainly held in position by the mass of fatty matter in which it is embedded and over which the peritoneum is stretched. If this fatty matter is loose or lax or is absorbed, the kidney may become movable and may give rise to great pain. This condition occurs, therefore, in badly nourished people, or in those who have become emaciated from any cause, and is more common in women than in men. It must not be confounded with ihe fioating kidney : this is a congenital condition due to the develop- ment of a meso-nephron, which permits the organ to move more or less freely. The two conditions cannot, however, be distinguished until the abdomen is opened or the kidney explored from the loin. The kidney has, of late years, been frequently the seat of surgical interference. It may be exposed for exploration or the evacuation of pus (nephrotomy) ; it may be incised for the removal of stone (nephro-lithotomy) ; it may be sutured when movable or floating (nephroraphy) ; or it may be removed (nephrectomy). The kidney may be exposed either by a lumbar or abdominal incision. The lumbar operation is the one which is generally adopted, unless in cases of very large tumours, or of wandering kidneys, with a loose meso-nephron, on account of the advantages which it possesses of not opening the peritoneum, and affording admirable drainage. It may be performed either by an oblique, a vertical, or a transverse incision. Perhaps the preferable, as affording the best means for exploring the whole surface of the kidney, is an incision from the tip of the last rib, backwards to the edge of the Erector spinae. This incision must not be quite parallel to the rib, but its posterior end must be at least three- quarters of an inch below it, lest the pleura be wounded. This cut is quite sufficient for an exploration of the organ. Should it require removal, a vertical incision can be made downwards to the crest of the ilium, along the outer border of the Quadratus lumborum. The structures divided are, the skin, the superficial fascia with the cutaneous nerves, the deep fascia, the posterior border of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen, and the outer border of the Latissimus dorsi; the Internal oblique and the posterior aponeurosis of the Transversalis muscle ; the outer border of the Quadratus lumborum, and the deep layer of the transversalis aponeurosis, and the transversalis fascia. The fatty tissue around the kidney is now exposed to view and must be separated by the fingers, or a director, in order to reach the kidney. The abdominal operation is best performed by an incision in the linea semilunaris on the side of the kidney to be removed, as recommended by Langenbuch. The incision is made of varying length according to the size of the kidney; its mid-point should be on a level with the umbilicus. The abdominal cavity is opened. The intestines are then held aside, and the outer layer of the meso-colon opened, so that the fingers can be introduced behind the peritoneum and the renal vessels sought for. These are then to be ligatured: if tied separately, care must be taken to ligature the artery first. The kidney must now be enucleated, and the vessels and ureter divided, and the latter tied, or if thought necessary stitched to the edge of the wound. The Ueeters The Ureters are the two tubes which conduct the urine from the kidneys into the bladder. They commence within the sinus of the kidney, by a number of short truncated branches, the calices or infundihula, which unite, either directly or indirectly, to form a dilated pouch, the ^pelvis, from which the ureter, after passing through the hilum of the kidney, descends to the bladder. The calices are cup-like tubes encircling the apices of the Malpighian pyramids ; but inasmuch as one calyx may include two or even more papillae, their number is generally less than the pyramids themselves, the former being from seven to thirteen, whilst the latter vary from eight to eighteen. These calices converge into two or three tubular divisions, which by their junction form the pelvis, or dilated portion of the ureter. The portion last mentioned, where the pelvis merges into the ureter proper, is found opposite the spinous process of the first lumbar vertebra, in which situation it is accessible behind the peritoneum (see fig. 543, page 924). The ureter proper is a cylindrical, membranous tube, about sixteen inches in length, and of the diameter of a goose-quill, extending from the pelvis of the kidney to the bladder. Its course is obliquely downwards and inwards through the lumbar region into the cavity of the pelvis, where it passes downwards, forwards, and inwards across that cavity to the base of the bladder, into which it