269 .TIBIA Lower extremity smaller than the upper, presents five surfaces; it is prolonged downwards, on its inner side into a strong process, the internal malleolus. The inferior surface of the bone is quadrilateral, and smooth for articulation with the astragalus. This surface is concave from before backwards, and broader in front than behind. It is traversed from before backwards by a slight elevation, separating two lateral depressions. It is narrow internally, where the articular surface becomes continuous with that on the inner malleolus. The anterior surface of the lower extremity is smooth and rounded above, and covered by the tendons of the Extensor muscles of the toes; its lower margin presents a rough transverse depression, for the attachment of the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint; the j^osterior sur- face presents a superficial groove directed obliquely downwards and inwards, continuous with a similar groove on the posterior extremity of the astragalus, and serving for the passage of the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis ; the external stcrface presents a triangular rough depression for the attachment of the inferior interosseous ligament connecting it with the fibula ; the lower part of this depression is smooth, covered with car- tilage in the recent state, and articu- lates with the fibula. This surface is bounded by two prominent ridges, continuous above with the interosseous ridge ; they afford attachment to the anterior and posterior inferior tibio-fibular ligaments. The internal surface of the lower extremity is prolonged downwards to form a strong pyramidal process, flattened from without inwards—the imier malleolus. The inner surface of this process is convex and subcutaneous; its outer surface is smooth and slightly concave, and articulates with the astragalus ; its anterior border is rough, for the attachment of the anterior fibres of the Deltoid ligament; its posterior border presents a broad and deep groove, directed obliquely downwards and inwards, which is occasionally double : this groove transmits the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum muscles. The summit of the internal malleolus is marked by a rough depression behind, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. Structure.—Like that of the other long bones. At the junction of the middle and lower third, where the bone is smallest, the wall of the shaft is thicker than in other parts, in order to compensate for the smallness of the calibre of the bone. Development.—By three centres (fig. 222): one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the centre of the shaft about the seventh week, and gradually extends towards either extremity. The centre for the upper epiphysis appears during the first year ; it is flattened in form, and has a thin, tongue-shaped process in front, which forms the tubercle. That for the lower epiphysis appears in the second year. The lower epiphysis joins the shaft at about the eighteenth, and the upper one about the twentieth year. Two additional centres occasionally exist, one for the tongue-shaped process of the upper epiphysis, which forms the tubercle, and one for the inner malleolus. Articulations.—With three bones : the femur, fibula, and astragalus. Attachment of Muscles.—To twelve: to the inner tuberosity, the Semi- FiG. 222.—Plan of the development of the tibia. By three centres. Ujpjper extremity