OKGANS OF DIGESTION 896 The different forms of stricture are : (i) the spasmodic, usually occmrring in nervous women, and intermittent in character, so that the dj^sphagia is not constant ; (2) fibrous, due to cicatrisation after injuries, such as swallowing corrosive fluids or boiling water ; and (3) malignant, usually epitheliomatous in its nature. This is situated generally either at the upper end of the tube, opposite the cricoid cartilage, or at its lower end at the cardiac orifice, but is also occasionally found at that part of the tube where it is crossed by the left bronchus. The oj)eration of oesophagostomy has occasionally been performed m cases where the stricture in the oesophagus is at the upper part, with a view to making a permanent opening below the stricture through which to feed the patient, but the operation has been far from a successful one, and the risk of setting up diffuse inflammation in the loose planes of connective tissue deep in the neck is so great that it would appear to be better, if any ofterative interference is undertaken, to perform gastrostomy. The operation is performed in the same manner as oesophagotomy, but the edges of the opening in the oesophagus are stitched to the skin incision. THE ABDOMEN The Abdomen is the largest cavity in the body. It is of an oval form, the extremities of the oval being directed upwards and downwards : the upper one being formed by the under sm-face of the Diaphragm, the lower by the upper concave sm^face of the Levator ani. In order to facilitate description, it is artificially divided into two parts : an upper and larger part, the abdomen proper ; and a lower and smaller part, the pelvis. These two cavities are not separated from each other, but the limit between them is marked by the brim of the true pelvis. The space , is wider above than below, and measures more in the vertical than in the transverse diameter. Boundaries.—The abdomen proper is bounded, in front and at the sides, by the lower ribs, the abdominal muscles, and the venter ilii; behind, by the vertebral column and the Psoas and Quadratus lumborum muscles ; above, by the Dia- phragm ; below, by the brim of the pelvis. The muscles forming the boundaries of the cavity are lined upon their inner surface by a layer of fascia, differently named according to the part which it covers. The abdomen contains the greater part of the alimentary canal; some of the accessory organs to digestion, viz. the liver, pancreas, and spleen ; and the kidneys and suprarenal capsules. Most of these structures, as well as the wall of the cavity in which they are contained, are covered by an extensive and complicated serous membrane, the peritoneum. The apertures found in the walls of the abdomen, for the transmission of structures to or from it, are, the mnbilicus, for the transmission (in the foetus) of the umbilical vessels ; the caval opening in the Diaphragm, for the transmission of the inferior vena cava ; the aortic opening, for the passage of the aorta, vena azygos, and thoracic duct; and the oesophageal opening, for the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves. Beloio, there are two apertures on each side : one for the passage of the femoral vessels, and the other for the transmission of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Regions.—For convenience of description of the viscera, as well as of reference to the morbid condition of the contained parts, the abdomen is artificially divided into nine regions. Thus, if two circular lines are drawn round the body, the one through the extremities of the ninth ribs, where they join their costal cartilages, and the other through the highest point of the crests of the ilia, the abdominal cavity is divided into three zones—an upper, a middle, and a lower. If two parallel lines are drawn perpendicularly upwards from the centre of Poupart's ligament, each of these zones is subdivided into three parts—a middle and two lateral. The middle region of the upper zone is called the epigastric {k-rrt, over ; yaanqp, the stomach); and the two lateral regions, the right and left hypochondriac (vvo, under ; ^o^^po'-^ the cartilages). The central region of the middle zone is the umbilical; and the two lateral regions, the right and left lumbar. The middle region of the lower zone is the hypogastric on pubic region; and the lateral regions