ELBOW-JOINT 327 the ulna. The latter bone is excluded from the wrist-jomt (as will be seen in the sequel) by the interarticular fibro-cartilage. Thus, rotation of the head of the radius round an axis which passes through the centre of the radial head of the humerus, imparts circular movement to the hand through a very considerable arc. Surface Form.—If the forearm be slightly flexed on the arm, a curved crease or fold with its convexity downwards may be seen running across the front of the elbow, extending from one condyle to the other. The centre of this fold is some slight distance above the line of the joint. The position of the radio-Immeral portion of the joint can be at once ascertained by feeling for a slight groove or depression between the head of the radius and the capitellimi of the humerus at the back of the articulation. Surgical Anatomy.—From the great breadth of the joint, and the manner in which the articular surfaces are interlocked, and also on account of the strong lateral ligaments and the support which the joint derives from the mass of muscles attached to each condyle of the humerus, lateral_divsplacement of the bones is very uncommon. Whereas antero- posterior disloc'ation, on account of the shortness of the antero-posterior diameter, the weakness of the anterior and posterior ligaments, and the want of support of muscles, much more frequentl}^ takes place. Dislocation backwards takmg place when the forearm is in a position of extension, and forwards when in a position of flexion. For, in the former position, that of extension, the coronoid process is not interlocked into the coronoid fossa, and loses its grip to a certain extent, whereas the olecranon process is in the olecranon fossa, and entirely prevents displacement forwards. On the other hand, during flexion, the coronoid process is in the coronoid fossa, and prevents dislocation backwards, while the olecranon loses its grip and is not so efficient, as during extension, in preventing a forward displacement. When lateral dislocation does take place it is generally incomplete. Dislocation of the elbow-joint is of common occurrence in children, far more common than dislocation of any other articulation, for, as a rule, fracture of a bone more frequently takes place, under the application of any severe violence, in young persons than dislocation. In lesions of this joint there is often very great difficulty in ascertaining the exact nature of the injury. The elbow-joint is occasionally^ the seat of acute synovitis. The synovial membrane then becomes distended with fluid, the bulging showing itself principally around the olecranon process, that is to say, on its inner and outer sides and above, in consequence of the laxness of the posterior ligament. Occasionally a weU-marked, triangular projection may be seen on the outer side of the olecranon, from bulging of the synovial membrane beneath the Anconeus muscle. Again, there is often some swelling just above the head of the radius, in the line of the radio-humeral joint. There is generally not much swelling at the front of the joint, though sometimes deep-seated fulness beneath the Brachialis amicus may be noted. When suppuration occurs the abscess usually points at one or other border of the Triceps muscle ; occasionally the pus discharges itself in front, near the insertion of the Brachialis anticus muscle. Chronic synovitis, usually of tubercular origin, is of common occurrence in the elbow-joint: under these circumstances the forearm tends to assume the position of semi-flexion, which is that of greatest ease and relaxation of ligaments. It should be borne in mind, that should ankylosis occur in this or the extended position, the limb will not be nearly so useful as if ankylosed in a position of rather less than a right angle. Loose cartilages are sometimes met with in the elbow-joint, not so commonly, however, as in the knee ; nor do they, as a rule, give rise to such urgent symptoms as in this articulation, and rarely require operative interference. The elbow-joint is also sometimes affected with osteo-arthritis, but this affection is less common in this articulation than in some other of the larger joints. Excision of the elbow is principally required for three conditions : viz. tubercular arthritis, injury and its results, and faulty ankylosis; but may be necessary for some other rarer conditions, such as disorganising arthritis after pyaemia, unreduced dislocations, and osteo-arthritis. The results of the operation are, as a rule, more favourable than those of excision of any other joint, and it is one, therefore, that the surgeon should never hesitate to perform, especially in the first three of the conditions mentioned above. The operation is best performed by a single vertical incision down the back of the joint, a transverse incision, over the outer condyle, being added if the parts are much thickened and fixed. A straight incision is made about four inches long, the mid-point of which is on a level with and a little to the inner side of the tip of the olecranon. This incision is made down to the bone, through the substance of the Triceps muscle. The operator with the point of his knife and guarding the soft parts with his thumb-nail, separates them from the bone. In doing this there are two structures which he should carefully avoid: the ulnar nerve, which lies parallel to his incision, but a little internal, as it courses down between the internal condyle and the olecranon process, and the prolongation of the Triceps into the deep fascia of the forearm over the Anconeus muscle. Having cleared the bones and divided the lateral and posterior ligaments, the forearm is strongly flexed and the ends of the bone turned out and sawn off. The section of the humerus should be through the base of the condyles, that of the ulna and radius should be just below the level of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna and the neck of the radius. In this