886 ORGANS OF DIGESTION epithelium on both surfaces, excepting near the orifice of the Eustachian tube, where it is columnar and ciliated.* Beneath the mucous membrane on the oral surface of the soft palate is a considerable amount of adenoid tissue. The palatine glands form a continuous layer on its posterior surface and round the uvula. The apo7ietirosis of the soft ]jaJate is a thin but firm fibrous layer attached above to the posterior border of the hard palate, and becoming thinner towards the free margin of the velum. Laterally, it is continuous with the pharyngeal aponeurosis. It forms the framework of the soft palate, and is joined by the tendon of the Tensor palati muscle. The muscles of tlie soft ijcdate are five on each side : the Levator palati, Tensor palati, Azygos uvulae, Palato-glossus, and Palato ]3haryngeus (see page 398). The following is the relative position of these structures in a dissection of the soft palate from the posterior or nasal to the anterior or oral surface. Immediately beneath the nasal mucous membrane is a thin stratum of muscular fibres, the posterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus muscle, joining with its fellow of the opposite side in the middle line. Beneath this is the Azygos uvulae, consisting of two rounded fleshy fasciculi, placed side by side in the median line of the soft palate. Next comes the aponeurosis of the Levator palati joining with the muscle of the opposite side in the middle line. Fourthly, the anterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus, thicker than the posterior, and separating the Levator palati from the next muscle, the Tensor palati. This muscle terminates in a tendon which, after winding round the hamular process, expands into a broad aponeurosis in the soft palate, anterior to the other muscles which have been enumerated. Finally, we have a thin muscular stratum, the Palato-glossus muscle, placed in front of the aponeurosis of the Tensor palati, and separated from the oral mucous membrane by adenoid tissue. The tonsils (amygdalcB) are two glandular organs, situated one on each side of the fauces, between the anterior and posterior pillars of the soft palate. They are of a rounded form, and vary considerably in size in different individuals. Exter- nally the tonsil is in relation with the inner surface of the Superior constrictor, which separates it from the internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries. It corresponds to the angle of the lower jaw. Its innei^ surface presents from twelve to fifteen orifices, leading into small recesses, from which numerous follicles branch out into the substance of the gland. These follicles are lined by a continua- tion of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, covered with epithelium ; around each follicle is a layer of closed capsules embedded in the submucous tissue. These capsules are analogous to those of Peyer's glands, consisting of adenoid tissue. No openings from the capsules into the follicles can be recognised. They contain a thick greyish secretion. Surrounding each follicle is a close plexus of lymphatic vessels. From these plexuses the lymphatic vessels pass to the deep cervical glands in the upper part of the neck, which frequently become enlarged in affections of these organs. The arteries supplying the tonsil are the dorsalis linguae from the lingual, the ascending palatine and tonsillar from the facial, the ascending pharyngeal from the external carotid, the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary, and a twig from the small meningeal. The veins terminate in the tonsillar plexus, on the outer side of the tonsil. The nerves are derived from Meckel's ganglion, and from the glosso-pharyngeal. The Salivaey Glands (fig. 517) The principal salivary glands communicating with the mouth, and pouring their secretion into its cavity, are the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual. The parotid gland, so called from being placed near the ear {-n-apa, near ; ovc, o)t6c, the ear), is the largest of the three salivary glands, varying in weight from * According to Klein, the mucous membrane on the nasal surface of the soft palate is in the foetus covered throughout by columnar ciliated epithelium.