480 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF Fracture of the necTi of the radius is an exceedingly rare accident, and is generally caused by direct violence. Its diagnosis is somewhat obscure, on account of the slight deformity visible, the injured part being surrounded by a large number of muscles ; but the movements of pronation and supination are entirely lost. The upper fragment is drawn outwards by the Supinator brevis, its extent of displacement being limited by the attachment of the orbicular ligament. The lower fragment is drawn forwards and slightly ui:)wards by the Biceps, and in- FiG. 322.—Fracture of the olecranon. wards by the Pronator radii teres, its dis- placement forwards and upwards being comiteracted in some degree by the Su- pinator brevis. The treatment essentially consists in relaxing the Biceps, Supinator brevis, and Pronator radii teres muscles, by flexing the forearm, and placing it in a position jnidway between pronation and supination, extension having been previ- ously made so as to bring the parts in apposition. In fracture of the radius (fig. 323) near its centre, the upper fragment is drawn upwards by the Biceps, and inwards by the Pronator radii teres, holding a position midway between pronation and supination, and a degree of fulness in the upper half of the forearm is thus produced : the lower fragment is drawn downwards and inwards towards the ulna by the Pronator quadra tus, and thrown into a state of pronation by the same muscle ; at the same time, the Supinator longus, by elevating the styloid process, into which it is inserted, will serve to depress the upper end of the lower fragment still more towards the ulna. In order to relax the opposing muscles the forearm should be bent, and the limb placed in a position midway between pronation and supination; the fracture is then easily reduced by extension from the wrist and elbow : well-padded splints should be applied on both sides of the forearm from the elbow to the wrist; the hand being allowed to fall, will, by its own weight, counteract the action of the Pronator quadratus and Supinator longus, and elevate the lower fragment to the level of the Fig. 323.—Fracture of the shaft of the radius. upper one. In fracture of the shaft of the ulna the upper fragment retains its usual posi- tion, but the lower fragment is drawn out- wards towards the radius by the Pronator quadratus, producing a well-marked depres- sion at the seat of fracture, and some ful- ness on the dorsal and palmar surfaces of the forearm. The fracture is easily reduced by extension from the wrist and forearm. The forearm should be flexed, and placed in a position midway between pronation and supination, and well-padded splints apphed from the elbow to the ends of the fingers. In fracture of the shafts of the radius and ulna together, the lower fragments are drawn upwards, sometimes forwards, sometimes backwards, according to the direction of the fracture, by the combined actions of the Flexor and Extensor muscles, producing a degree of fulness on the dorsal or palmar surface of the forearm ; at the same time the two fragments are drawn into contact by the Pronator quadratus, the radius being in a state of'pronation : the upper fragment of the radius is drawn upwards and inwards by the Biceps and Pronator radii teres'to a higher level than the ulna; the upper portion of the ulna is slightly elevated by the Brachiahs anticus. The fracture may be reduced by extension froni the wrist and elbow, and the forearm should be placed in the same position as in fracture of the ulna. In fracture of the loiuer end of the radius (fig. 324) the displacement which is produced is very considerable, and bears some resemblance to dislocation of the carpus backwards, from which it should be carefully distinguished. The lower fragment is drawn upwards and backwards behind the upper fragment by the combined actions of the Supinator longus and the flexors and the extensors of the thumb and carpus, producing a well-marked pro- minence on the back of the wrist, with a deep depression above it. The upper fragment projects forwards, often lacerating the substance of the Pronator quadratus, and is drawn by this muscle into close contact with the lower end of the ulna, causing a projection on the anterior surface of the forearm, immediately above the carpus, from the flexor tendons being thrust forwards. This fracture may be distinguished from dislocation by the deformity being removed on making sufficient extension, when crepitus maybe occasionally