APPENDAGES OF THE EYE The retina, with the exception of its pigment-layer and its vessels, is perfectly transparent, so as to be invisible when examined by the ophthalmoscope, so that its diseased conditions are recognised by its loss of transparency. In retinitis, for instance, there is more or less dense and extensive opacity of its structure, and not unfrequently extravasations of blood into its substance. Haemorrhages may also take place into the retina, from rupture of a blood-vessel without inflammation. The retina may become displaced from effusion of serum between it and the choroid, or by blows on the eyeball, or may occur without apparent cause in progressive myopia, and in this case the ophthalmoscope shows an opaque, tremulous cloud. Glioma, a form of sarcoma, and essentially a disease of early life, is occasionally met with in connection with the retina. The lens has no blood-vessels, nerves, or connective tissue in its structure, and therefore is not subject to those morbid changes to which tissues containing these structures are liable. It does however present certain morbid or abnormal conditions of various kinds. Thus, variations in shape, absence of the whole or a part of the lens, and displacements are amongst its congenital defects. Opacities may occur from injury, senile changes, malnutrition, or errors in growth or development. Senile changes may take place in the lens, impairing its elasticit.y and rendering it harder than in youth, so that its curvature can only be altered to a limited extent by the Ciliary muscle. And, finally, the lens may be dislocated or displaced by blows upon the eyeball; and its relations to surrounding structures altered by adhesions or the pressure of new growths. There are two particular regions of the eye which require special notice : one of these is known as the 'filtration area,' and the other as the ' dangerous area.' The filtration area is the circumcorneal zone immediately in front of the iris. Here are situated the cavernous spaces of Fontana, which communicate with the canal of Schlemm, through which the chief transudation of fluid from the eye is now believed to take place. The dangerous area of the eye is the region in the neighbourhood of the ciliary body, and wounds or injuries in this situation are peculiarly dangerous. For inflammation of the ciliary body is liable to spread to many of the other structures of the eye, especially to the iris and choroid, which are intimately connected by nervous and vascular supplies. Moreover, wounds which involve the ciliary region are especially liable to be followed by sympathetic ophthalmia, in which destructive inflammation of one eye is excited by some irritation in the other. Appendages of the Eye The appendages of the eye (tutamina oculi) include the eyebrows, the eyelids, the conjunctiva, and the lachrymal apparatus, viz. the lachrymal gland, the lachrymal sac, and the nasal duct. The eyebrows (supercilia) are two arched eminences of integument, which surmount the upper circumference of the orbit on each side, and support numerous short, thick hairs, directed obliquely on the surface. In structure, the eyebrows consist of thickened integument, connected beneath with the Orbicularis palpe- brarum, Corrugator supercilii, and Occipito-frontalis muscles. These muscles serve, by their action on this part, to control to a certain extent the amount of light admitted into the eye. The eyelids (jjaljjehrce) are two thin, movable folds, placed in front of the eye, protecting it from injury by their closure. The upper lid is the larger, and the more movable of the two, and is furnished with a separate elevator muscle, the Levator palpebrcs superioris. When the eyelids are opened, an elliptical space (fissura palpehrarmn) is left between their margins, the angles of which corre- spond to the junction of the upper and lower lids, and are called cantJii. The outer canthus is more acute than the inner, and the lids here lie in close contact with the globe: but the inner canthus is prolonged for a short distance inwards, towards the nose, and the two lids are separated by a triangular space, the lacus lachrymalis. At the commencement of the lacus lachrymalis, on the margin of each eyelid, is a small conical elevation, the lachrymal papilla, or tubercle, the apex of which is pierced by a small orifice, the ptmctum lachrymale, the commence- ment of the lachrymal canal. The eyelashes {cilia) are attached to the free edges of the eyelids; they are short, thick, curved hairs, arranged in a double or triple row at the margin of the lids: those of the upper lid, more numerous and longer than the lower, curve upwards ; those of the lower lid curve downwards, so that they do not interlace in closing the lids. Near the attachment of the eyelashes are the openings of a number of glands, glands of Mohl, arranged in several rows close to the free 3 I 2