GENERAL ANATOMY 6o deeper or reticular layer, and the superficial or iKt]jillary layer. Unstriped muscular fibres are found in the superficial layers of the corium, wherever hairs are found; and in the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the scrotum, penis, labia majora of the female, and the nipples. In the latter situation the fibres are arranged in bands, closely reticulated and disposed in superimposed laminae. The reticular layer consists of strong interlacing fibrous bands, composed chiefly of the white variety of fibrous tissue, but containing, also, some fibres of the yellow elastic tissue, which vary in amount in different parts, and connective- tissue corpuscles, which are often to be found flattened against the white fibrous tissue bundles. Towards the attached surface the fasciculi are large and coarse, and the areolae which are left by their interlacement are large, and occupied by adipose tissue and sweat-glands. Below this the elements of the skin become gradually blended with the subcutaneous areolar tissue, which, except in a few situations, contains fat. Towards the free surface the fasciculi are much finer, and their mode of interlacing close and intricate. The papillary layer is situated upon the free surface of the reticular layer; it consists of numerous small, highly sensitive, and vascular eminences, the papillcR, which rise perpendicularly from its surface, and form the essential element of the organ of touch. The papillte are conical-shaped eminences, having a round or blunted extremity, occasionally divided into two or more parts and connected by a thin base with the free surface of the corium. Their average length is about of an inch, and they measure at their base o^l-jy of an inch in diameter. On the general surface of the body, more especially in those parts which are endowed with slight sensibility, they are few in number, short, exceedingly minute, and irregu- larly scattered over the surface ; but in some situations, as upon the palmar surface of the hands and fingers, upon the plantar surface of the feet and toes, and around the nipple, they are long, of large size, closely aggregated together, and arranged in parallel curved lines, forming the elevated ridges seen on the free surface of the epidermis. In these ridges the larger papillae are arranged in a double row, with smaller papillae between them; and these rows are subdivided into small square- shaped spaces by short transverse furrows, regularly disposed ; in the centre of each of these transverse furrows is the minute orifice of the duct of a sweat-gland. No papillae exist in the grooves between the ridges. In structure the papillae consist of very small and closely interlacing bundles of finely fibrillated tissue, with a few elastic fibres. The arteries supplying the skin form a network in the subcutaneous tissue, from which branches are given off to supply the sweat-glands, the hair-follicles, and the fat. Other branches are given off which form a plexus immediately beneath the corium ; from this, fine capillary vessels pass into the papillae, forming, in the smaller papillae, a single capillary loop, but in the larger, a more or less convoluted vessel. There are numerous lymphatics supplied to the skin, which form two networks, superficial and deep, communicating with each other and with those of the subcutaneous tissue by oblique branches. They originate in the cell- spaces of the tissue. The nerves of the skin terminate partly in the epidermis and partly in the cutis vera. The former form a dense plexus in the superficial layer of the corium, which extends horizontally and gives off numerous fibrils ; these are prolonged into the epidermis and terminate between the cells, either in bulbous extremities or in a network; or, according to more recent observations, in the deep epithelial cells themselves. The latter terminate in end-bulbs, touch-corpuscles, or Pacinian bodies, in the manner already described ; and, in addition to these, a considerable number of fibrils are distributed to the hair-follicles, which are said to entivine the follicle in a circula-r manner. Other nerve-fibres are supplied to the plain mus- cular tissues of the hair-muscles (arrectores pili) and to the muscular coat of the j blood-vessels. These are probably non-medullated fibres. j The appendages of the skin are the nails, the hairs, the sudoriferous and] sebaceous glands, and their ducts.