1017 THE PROSTATE GLAND the bladder {piobo-prostatic); by the posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, which invests the commencement of the membranous portion of the m^ethra and prostate gland; and by the anterior portion of the Levator ani muscle (levator prostatcB), which passes down on each side from the symphysis pubis and anterior ligament of the bladder to the sides of the prostate. The prostate consists of two lateral lobes and a middle lobe. The huo lateral lobes are of equal size, separated by a deep notch behind, and by a shght furrow upon their upper and lower surfaces, which indicates the bilobed condition of the organ in some animals. The third, or middle lobe, is a small transverse band, occasionally a rounded or triangular prominence, placed between the two lateral lobes, at the posterior part of the organ. It lies immediately beneath the neck of the bladder, behind the commencement of the urethra, and above and between the ejaculatory ducts. Its existence is not constant; but it is occasionally found at an early period of life, as well as in adults, and in old age. The prostate gland is perforated by the urethra and the ejaculatory ducts. The urethra usually lies about one-third nearer its upper than its lower surface; occasionally, the prostate surrounds only the lower three-fourths of this tube, and more rarely the urethra runs through the lower instead of the upper part of the gland. The ejaculatory ducts pass forwards obliquely through the lower part of the prostate, and open into the prostatic portion of the urethra. Structure.—The prostate is enclosed in a thin but firm fibrous capsule, distinct from that derived from the posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, and separated from it by a plexus of veins. Its substance is of a pale reddish-grey colour, of great density, and not easily torn. It consists of glandular substance and muscular tissue. The muscular tissue, according to Kolliker, constitutes the proper stroma of the prostate : the connective tissue being very scanty, and simply forming thin trabeculae between the muscular fibres, in which the vessels and nerves of the gland ramify. The muscular tissue is arranged as follows : immediately beneath the fibrous ca.psule is a dense layer, which forms an investing sheath for the gland ; secondly, around the urethra, as it lies in the prostate, is another dense layer of circular fibres, continuous behind with the internal layer of the muscular coat of the bladder, and in front blending with the fibres surrounding the membranous portion of the urethra. Between these two layers, strong bands of muscular tissue, which decussate freely, form meshes in which the glandular structure of the organ is embedded. In that part of the gland which is situated above the urethra the muscular tissue is especially dense, and there is here little or no gland-tissue ; while in that part which is below the urethra the muscular tissue presents a wide- meshed structure, which is densest at the upper part of the gland—that is, near the bladder—becoming looser and more sponge-like towards the apex of the organ. The glandular substance is composed of numerous follicular pouches, opening into elongated canals, which join to form from twelve to twenty small excretory ducts. The follicles are connected together by areolar tissue, supported by prolongations from the fibrous capsule and muscular stroma, and enclosed in a delicate capillary plexus. The epithelium lining of both the canals and the terminal vesicles is of the columnar variety. The prostatic ducts open into the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra. *^ Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the prostate are derived from the internal pudic, vesical, and haemorrhoidal. Its ve^7^s form a plexus around the sides and base of the gland ; they receive in front the dorsal vein of the penis, and terminate in the internal iliac vein. The nerves are derived from the pelvic plexus. Surgical Anatomy.—The relation of the prostate to the rectum should be noted: by means of the finger introduced into the gut, the surgeon detects enlargement or other disease of this organ; he can feel the apex of the gland, which is the guide to Cock's