OF THE BACK 415 Dissection.—Kemove the muscles of the preceding layer by dividing and turning aside the Complexus; then detach the Spinalis and Longissimus dorsi from their attachments, divide the Erector spinse at its connection below to the sacral and lumbar spines, and turn it outwards. The muscles filling up the interval between the spinous and transverse processes are then exposed. The Semispinalis dorsi (fig. 288) consists of thin, narrow, fleshy fasciculi, inter-* posed between tendons of considerable length. It arises by a series of small tendons from the transverse processes of the lower dorsal vertebrae, from the tenth or eleventh to the fifth or sixth ; and is inserted, by five or six tendons, into the spinous processes of the upper four dorsal and lower two cervical vertebrae. The Semispinalis colli, thicker than the preceding, arises by a series of tendinous and fleshy fibres from the transverse processes of the upper four dorsal vertebrae and from the articular processes of the lower four cervical vertebrae; and is inserted into the spinous processes of four cervical vertebrae, from the axis to the fifth cervical. The fasciculus connected with the axis is the largest, and chiefly muscular in structure. Relations.—By their superficial surface, from below upwards, with the Spinalis dorsi, Longissimus dorsi, Splenius, Complexus, the profunda cervicis artery, the princeps cervicis artery, and the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the first, second, and third cervical nerves. By their deep stirface, with the Multifidus spinae. The Multifidus spinse consists of a number of fleshy and tendinous fasciculi, which fill up the groove on either side of the spinous processes of the vertebrae, from the sacrum to the axis. In the sacral region, these fasciculi arise from the back of the sacrum, as low as the fourth sacral foramen, and from the aponeurosis of origin of the Erector spinas ; in the iliac region, from the inner surface of the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments ; in the lumbar regions, from the articular processes; in the dorsal region, from the transverse processes ; and in the cervical region, from the articular processes. Each fasciculus, passing obliquely upwards and. inwards, is inserted into the lamina and whole length of the spinous process of one of the vertebrae above. These fasciculi vary in length : the most superficial, the longest, pass from one vertebra to the third or fourth above ; those next in order pass from one vertebra to the second or third above; whilst the deepest connect two contiguous vertebrae. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Longissimus dorsi, Spinalis dorsi, Semispinalis dorsi, and Semispinalis colli. By its deep surface, with the laminae and spinous processes of the vertebrae, and with the Eotatores spinae in the dorsal region. The Rotatores spinae are found only in the dorsal region of the spine, beneath the Multifidus spinae ; they are eleven in number on each side. Each muscle is small and somewhat quadrilateral in form ; it arises from the upper and back part of the transverse process, and is inserted into the lower border and outer surface of the lamina of the vertebra above, the fibres extending as far inwards as the root of the spinous process. The first is found between the first and second dorsal; the last, between the eleventh and twelfth. Sometimes the number of these muscles is diminished by the absence of one or more from the upper or lower end. The Supraspinales consist of a series of fleshy bands which lie on the spinous processes in the cervical region of the spine. The Interspinales are short muscular fasciculi, placed in pairs betw^een the spinous processes of the contiguous vertebrse, one on each side of the interspinous ligament. In the cervical region, they are most distinct, and consist of six pairs, the first being situated between the axis and third vertebra, and the last between the last cervical and the first dorsal. They are small narrow bundles, attached, above and below, to the apices of the spinous processes. In the dorsal region, they are found between the first and second vertebra, and occasionally between