265 PATELLA The Patella (figs. 218, 219) The Patella (patella, a small loan) is a flat, triangular bone, situated at the anterior part of the knee-joint. It is usually regarded as a sesamoid bone, developed in the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor. It resembles these bones (i) in its being developed in a tendon ; (2) in its centre of ossification presenting a knotty or tuberculated out- line similar to other sesamoid bones; (3) in its structure being composed mainly of dense cancellous tissue, as in the other sesamoid bones. It serves to protect the front of the joint, and increases the leverage of the Quadriceps extensor by making it act at a greater angle. It presents an anterior and posterior surface, three borders, and an apex. The anterior surface is convex, perforated by small apertures, for the passage of nutrient vessels, and marked by numerous rough, longitudinal striae. This surface is covered, in the recent state, by an expansion from the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor, which is continuous below with the superficial fibres of the ligamentum patellae. It is separated from the integument by a bursa. The posterior surface presents a smooth, oval-shaped, articular surface, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and divided into two facets by a vertical ridge, which descends from the superior border towards the inferior angle of the bone. The ridge corresponds to the groove on the trochlear surface of the femur, and the two facets to the articular surfaces of the two condyles ; the outer facet, for articulation with the outer condyle, being the broader and deeper. This character serves to indicate the side to which the bone belongs. Below the articular surface is a rough, convex, non-articular depression, the lower half of which gives attachment to the ligamentum patellae ; the upper half being separated from the head of the tibia by adipose tissue. The superior border is thick, and sloped from behind, downwards and forwards ; it gives attachment to that portion of the Quadriceps extensor which is derived from the Eectus and Crureus muscles. The lateral borders are thinner, converging below. They give attachment to that portion of the Quadriceps extensor derived from the external and internal Vasti muscles. The apex is pointed, and gives attachment to the ligamentum patella. Structure.—It consists of a nearly uniform dense cancellous tissue, covered by a thin compact lamina. The cancelli immediately beneath the anterior surface are arranged parallel with it. In the rest of the bone they radiate from the posterior articular surface towards the other i^arts of the bone. Development.—By a single centre, which makes its appearance, according to Beclard, about the third year. In two instances, I have seen this bone cartilagi- nous throughout, at a much later period (six years). More rarely, the bone is developed by two centres, placed side by side. Ossification is completed about the age of puberty. Articulations.—With the two condyles of the femur. Attachment of Muscles.—To four: the Eectus, Crureus, Vastus internus, and Vastus externus. These muscles, joined at their insertion, constitute the Quadriceps extensor cruris. Surface Form.—The external surface of the patella can be seen and felt in front of the knee. In the extended position of the limb the internal border is a little more prominent Fig. 218.—Eight patella. Fig. 219.—Posterior Anterior sm^face. surface.