THE SKELETON 230 for the attachment of the Pronator quadratns. It separates the anterior from the internal surface. The posterior border commences above at the apex of the triangular sub- cutaneous surface at the back part of the olecranon, and terminates below at the back part of the styloid process ; it is well marked in the upper three-fourths, and gives attachment to an aponeurosis common to the Flexor carpi ulnaris, the Extensor carpi ulnaris, and the Flexor profundus digitorum muscles; its lower fourth is smooth and rounded. This border separates the internal from the posterior surface. The external or interosseous border commences above by two lines, which con- verge one from each extremity of the lesser sigmoid cavity, enclosing between them a triangular space for the attachment of part of the Supinator brevis, and terminates below at the middle of the. head of the ulna. Its two middle fourths are very pro- minent, its lower fourth is smooth and rounded. This border gives attachment to the interosseous membrane, except along its upper fourth, and separates the anterior from the posterior surface. The anterior surface, much broader above than below, is concave in the upper three-fourths of its extent, and affords attachment to the Flexor profundus digi- torum ; its lower fourth, also concave, to the Pronator quadratus. The lower fourth is separated from the remaining portion of the bone by a prominent ridge, directed obliquely from above downwards and inwards ; this ridge (the oblique or Pronator ridge) marks the extent of attachment of the Pronator quadratus above. At the junction of the upper with the middle third of the bone is the nutrient canal, directed obliquely upwards and inwards. The posterior surface, directed backwards and outwards, is broad and concave above, somewhat narrower and convex in the middle of its course, narrow, smooth, and rounded below. It presents, above, an oblique ridge, which runs from the posterior extremity of the lesser sigmoid cavity, downwards to the posterior border ; the triangular surface above this ridge receives the insertion of the Anconeus muscle, whilst the ridge itself affords attachment to the Supinator brevis. The surface of bone below this is subdivided by a longitudinal ridge, sometimes called the ■perpendicular line, into two parts : the internal part is smooth, concave, and gives origin to (occasionally is merely covered by) the Extensor carpi ulnaris ; the external portion, wider and rougher, gives attachment from above downwards to part of the Supinator brevis, the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the Extensor longus pollicis, and the Extensor indicis muscles. The internal surface is broad and concave above, narrow and convex below. It gives attachment by its upper three-fourths to the Flexor profundus digitorum muscle : its lower fourth is subcutaneous. The Lower Extremity of the ulna is of small size, and excluded from the arti- culation of the wrist-joint. It presents for examination two eminences, the outer and larger of which is a rounded, articular eminence, termed the head of the ulna; the inner, narrower and more projecting, is a non-articular eminence, the styloid process. The head presents an articular facet, part of which, of an oval form, is directed downwards, and articulates with the upper surface of the interarticular fibro-cartilage which separates it from the wrist-joint; the remaining portion, directed outwards, is narrow, convex, and received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius. The styloid process projects from the inner and back part of the bone, and descends a little lower than the head, terminating in a rounded summit, which affords attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the wrist. The head is separated from the styloid process by a depression for the attachment of the triangular interarticular fibro-cartilage; and behind, by a shallow groove for the passage of the tendon of the Extensor carpi ulnaris. Structure.—Similar to that of the other long bones. Development.—By three centres : one for the shaft, one for the inferior extre- mity, and one for the olecranon (fig. 202). Ossification commences near the middle of the shaft about the eighth week, and soon extends through the greater part of