715 T^NIA SEMICIRCULAEIS directed forwards into the fore part of the body and anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle ; its narrow end is directed outwards and backwards, and lies on the outer side of the optic thalamus, and is continued into the roof of the descending cornu: it is covered by the serous lining of the cavity, and crossed by some veins of considerable size. It is separated from the extraventricular portion by a lamina of white matter, which is called the internal capsule, in contradistinction to a lamina of white matter which covers the outer surface of the extraventricular portion of the corpus striatum, and which is called the external cajjsiile. The internal capsule is formed by fibres of the crusta of the crus cerebri, supplemented by fibres derived from the nuclei on each side. In horizontal section it is seen to be somewhat abruptly curved, with its convexity inwards ; the prominence of the curve is called the genu, and projects between the intraventricular portion of the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus (fig. 426). The extraventricular portion of the corpus striatum, or nucleus lenticularis, is oval in form. It does not extend as far forwards Fig. 427.—Transverse vertical section of the brain, through the fore part of the foramen magnimi, looked at from the front. (iVfter Hirschfeld and Leveille.) Cor or backwards as the nucleus caudatus. It is bounded externally by a lamina of white matter called the external capsule, which is covered on its outer surface by a thin layer of grey matter termed the claustrmn. The claustrum presents ridges and furrows on its outer surface, corresponding to the convolutions and sulci of the island of Reil, with the white matter of which it is in immediate relation. The tgenia semicircularis is a narrow, whitish, semi-transparent band of medullary substance, situated in the depression between the nucleus caudatus and optic thalamus. Anteriorly it descends, in connection with the anterior pillar of the fornix, to below the level of the foramen of Monro, where it enters a mass of grey matter, the nucleus amygdalcB. Behind, it is continued into the roof of the middle or descending horn of the lateral ventricle, and is lost near the bottom of the cornua. Beneath it is a large vein [ vena corporis striati), which receives numerous small veins from the surface of the corpus striatum and optic thalamus, and joins the venas Galeni.