52 GENERAL ANATOMY the brain and cord, and in the retina, the capillaries are invested with a sheath composed of a delicate endothelial membrane. In the largest capillaries (which ought, perhaps, to be described rather as the smallest arteries) there is, outside the endothelial layer, a muscular layer, consisting of contractile fibre-cells, arranged transversely, as in the tunica media of the larger arteries (fig. 60). The veins, like the arteries, are composed of three coats—internal, middle, and external: and these coats are, with the necessary modifications, analogous to the coats of the arteries ; the mternal being the endothelial, the middle the muscular, and the external the connective or areolar. The main difference between the veins and the arteries is in the comparative weakness of the middle coat of the former, and to this it is due that the veins do not stand open when divided, as Fig. 60.—Finest vessels on the arterial side. From the human brain. Magnified 300 times. Finer capillaries, a. Structureless membrane still witli some nuclei, representative of the tunica adventitia. h. Nuclei of the muscular fibre-cells, c. Nuclei within the small artery, perhaps appertaining to an endothelium, d. Nuclei in the transition vessels. the arteries do, and that they are passive rather than active organs of the circulation. In the veins immediately above the capillaries the three coats are hardly to be distinguished. The endothelium is supported on an outer membrane separable into two layers, the outer of which is the thicker, and consists of a delicate, nucleated membrane (adventitia), while the inner is composed of a network of longitudinal elastic fibres (media). In the veins next above these in size (one-fifth of a line according to Kolliker) a muscular layer and a layer of circular fibres can be traced, forming the middle coat, while the elastic and connective elements of the outer coat become more distinctly perceptible. In the middle-sized veins the typical structure of these vessels becomes clear. The endothelium is of the same character as in the arteries, but its cells are more oval, less fusiform. It is supported by a connective-tissue layer, consisting of a delicate network of branched cells, and external to this is a layer of longitudinal elastic fibres, but seldom any appearance of a fenestrated membrane. This constitutes the internal coat. The middle coat is composed of a thick layer of connective tissue with elastic fibres, intermixed, in some