THE SKELETON ii8 triangular form, deeper in front than behind, and prolonged downwards anteriorly so as to overlap the upper and fore part of the adjacent vertebra. It presents in front a median longitudinal ridge, separating two lateral depressions for the attach- ment of the Longus colli muscle of either side. The odontoid process presents two articulating surfaces : one in front, of an oval form, for articulation with the atlas ; another behind, for the transverse ligament—the latter frequently encroach- FiG. III..—Second cervical vertebra, or Axis. Odontoid process Inferior articular process ing on the sides of the process. The apex is pointed, and gives attachment to one fasciculus of the odontoid ligament {ligamentum sus2:)ensorium). Below the apex the process is somewhat enlarged, and presents on either side a rough impression for the attachment of the lateral fasciculi of the odontoid or check ligaments, which connect-it to the occipital bone ; the base of the process, where it is attached to the body, is constricted, so as to prevent displacement from the transverse ligament, which binds it in this —Seventh cervical vertebra, or vertebra prominens. Bodi/. Fig. 112. situation to the anterior arch of the atlas. Sometimes, however, this process does become dis- placed, especially in children, in whom the ligaments are more relaxed: instant death is the result of this accident. The ])edicles are broad and strong, especially their anterior extrem- ities, which coalesce with the sides of the body and the root of the odontoid process. The lamincz are thick and strong, and the spinal foramen large, but smaller than that of the atlas. The trans- verse pi'^^ocesses are very small, not bifid, and perforated by the vertebral foramen, or foramen for the vertebral artery, which is directed obliquely upwards and outwards. The superior articu- lar siirfaces are round, slightly convex, directed upwards and outwards, and are peculiar in being supported on the body, pedicles, and transverse processes. The inferior articular surfaces have the same direction as those of the other cervical vertebrae. The superior intervertebral notches are very shallow, and lie behind the articular processes; the inferior in front of them, as in the other cervical Spinous process