AETERIES wound round the crura cerebri. The vessels belongmg to this system are larger than those of the cortical system, and are what Cohnheim has termed ' terminal' arteries—that is to say, vessels which from their origin to their termination neither supply nor receive any anastomotic branch, so that, by one of the small vessels, onlv a limited area of the central ganglia can be injected, and the injection cannot be driven beyond the area of the part supplied by the particular vessel which is the subject of the experiment. The cortical arterial system.—The vessels forming this system are the terminal branches of the anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral arteries, described above. These vessels divide and ramify in the substance of the pia mater, and give off nutrient arteries which penetrate the cortex perpendicularly. These nutrient vessels are divisible into two classes, the long and short. The long, or, as they are sometimes called, the medullary arteries pass through the grey matter to penetrate the centrum ovale to the depth of about an inch and a half, without intercommunicating other- wise than by very fine capillaries, and thus constitute so many independent small systems. The short vessels are confined to the cortex, where they form with the long vessels a compact network in the middle zone of the grey matter, the outer and inner zones being sparingly supplied with blood (fig. 358). The vessels of the cortical arterial system are not so strictly ' terminal' as those of the central ganghonic system, but they approach this t3-pe very closely, so that injection of one area from the vessel of another area, though it may be possible, is frequently very difficult, and is only effected through vessels of small calibre. As a result of this, obstruction of one of the main branches, or its divisions, may have the effect of producing softening in a very limited area of the cortex.* ARTERIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The artery which supplies the upper extremity continues as a single trunk from its commencement down to the elbow; but different portions of it have received different names, according to the region through which it passes. That part of the vessel which extends from its origin to the lower border of the first rib, is termed the subclavian; beyond this point to the lower border of the axilla, it is termed the axillary; and from the lower margin of the axillary space to the bend of the elbow, it is termed brachial; here, the single trunk terminates by dividing into two branches, the radial and ulnar, an arrangement precisely similar to what occurs in the lower limb. Subclavian Aeteeies (fig. 359) The subclavian artery on the right side arises from the innominate artery opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation ; on the left side it arises from the arch of the aorta. It follows, therefore, that these two vessels must, in the first part of their course, differ in their length, their direction, and their relation with neighbouring parts. In order to facilitate the description of these vessels, more especially from a surgical point of view, each subclavian artery has been divided into three parts. The first portion, on the right side, passes upwards and outwards from the origin of the vessel to the inner border of the Scalenus anticus. On the left side it ascends nearly vertically, to gain the inner border of that muscle. The second part passes outwards, behind the Scalenus anticus ; and the third part passes from the outer margin of that muscle, beneath the clavicle, to the lower border of the first rib, * The student who desires further information on this subject is referred to Charcot's Localisation of Cerebral and Spinal Diseases, p. 42 et seq., whence the facts above given have been principally derived.