992 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION head to a small pea, and are made up of a number of small nodules or follicles, which are irregular in shape and are more or less fused together, especially towards the interior of the gland. According to Watney, each follicle consists of a medullary and cortical portion, which differ in many essential particulars from each other. The cortical portion is mainly composed of lymphoid cells, supported by a delicate reticulum. In addition to this reticulum, of which traces only are found in the medullary portion, there is also a network of hnely branched cells, which is continuous with a similar network in the medullary portion. This network forms an adventitia to the blood-vessels. In the medullary portion there are but few lymphoid cells, but there are, especially towards the centre, granular cells and concentric corpuscles. The granular cells are rounded or flask-shaped masses, attached (often by fibrillated extremities) to blood-vessels and to newly formed connective tissue. The concentric corpuscles are composed of a central mass, consisting of one or more granular cells, and of a capsule, which is formed of epithelioid cells, which are continuous with the branched cells forming the network mentioned above. Each follicle is surrounded by a capillary plexus, from which vessels pass into Fig. 583. I. Upper portion of the tlivmns of a foetal pig of 2" in length, showing the bucl-like lobnli and glandular elements. 2. Cells of the thymus,'mostly from a man. a. Free nuclei, h. Small cells, c. Larger, d. Larger, with oil- globules, from the ox. <?, /. Cells completely filled witli fat, at / without a nucleus, g, h. Concentric bodies. g. An encapsulated nucleated cell. h. A composite structure of a similar nature. the interior, and radiate from the periphery towards the centre, and form a second zone just within the margin of the medullary portion. In the centre of the medulla there are very few vessels, and they are of minute size. Dr. Watney has recently made the important observation that haemoglobin is found in the thymus, either in cysts or in cells situated near to, or forming part of, the concentric corpuscles. This haemoglobin varies from granules to masses exactly resembhng coloured blood-corpuscles, oval in the bird, reptile, and flsh ; circular in all mammals, except in the camel. Dr. Watney has also discovered, in the lymph issuing from the thymus, similar cells to those found in the gland, and, hke them, containing haemoglobin, either in the form of granules or masses. From these facts he arrives at the physiological conclusion that the thymus is one source of the coloured blood-corpuscles. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the thymus are derived from the internal mammary, and from the superior and inferior thyroid. The veins terminate in the left innominate vein, and in the thyroid veins. The lymphatics are of large size, arise in the substance of the gland, and are said to terminate in