587 THORACIC AORTA ARTERIES OF THE TRUNK The Descending Aorta The Descending Aorta is divided into two portions, the thoracic and abdominal, in correspondence with the two great cavities of the trunk in which it is situated. The Thoracic Aorta commences at the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra, on the left side, and terminates at the aortic opening in the Diaphragm, in front of the last dorsal vertebra. At its commencement, it is situated on the left side of the spine ; it approaches the median line as it descends ; and, at its termination, lies directly in front of the column.^ The direction of this vessel being influenced by the spine, upon which it rests, it describes a curve which is concave forwards in the dorsal region. As the branches given off from it are small, the diminution in the size of the vessel is inconsiderable. It is contained in the back part of the posterior mediastinum. Relations.—It is in relation, in front, from above downwards, with the left pulmonary artery, the left bronchus, the pericardium, and the oesophagus; behind, with the vertebral column, and the vena azygos minor ; on the right side, with the vena azygos major, and thoracic duct; on the left side, with the left pleura and lung. The oesophagus, with its accompanying nerves, lies on the right side of the aorta above ; but at the lower part of the thorax it gets in front of the aorta, and close to the Diaphragm is situated to its left side. Plan of the Relations of the Thoracic Aorta In front. Left pulmonary artery. Left bronchus. Pericardium. (Esophagus. Bight side. (Esophagus (above). Vena azygos major. Thoracic duct. Left side. Pleura. Left lung. (Esophagus (below). Behind. Vertebral column. Vena azygos minor. The aorta is occasionally found to be obliterated at a particular spot, viz. at the junction of the arch with the thoracic aorta, just below the ductus arteriosus. Whether this is the result of disease, or of congenital malformation, is immaterial to our present purpose ; it affords an interesting opportunity of observing the resources of the collateral circulation. The course of the anastomosing vessels, by which the blood is brought from the upper to the lower part of the artery, will be found well described in an account of two cases in the Pathological Transactions, vols. viii. and x. In the former (p. 162), Mr. Sydney Jones tlius sums up the detailed description of the anastomosing vessels :—' The principal communications by which the circulation was carried on, were—Firstly, the internal mammary, anastomosing with the intercostal arteries, with the phrenic of the abdominal aorta by means of the musculo-phrenic and comes nervi phrenici, and largely with the deep epigastric. Secondly, the superior intercostal, anastomosing anteriorly by means of a large branch with the first aortic intercostal, and posteriorly with the posterior branch of the same artery. Thirdly, the inferior thyroid, by means of a branch about the size of an ordinary radial, formed a communication with the first aortic intercostal. Fourthly, the transversalis colli, by means of very large communications with the posterior branches of the intercostals. Fifthly, the branches (of the subclavian and axillary) going to the side of the chest were large, and anastomosed freely with the lateral branches of the intercostals.' In the second case also (vol. x. p. 97), Mr. Wood describes the anastomoses in a somewhat similar manner, adding the remark, that ' the blood which was brought into the aorta through the anastomoses of the intercostal arteries appeared to be expended principally in supplying the abdomen and pelvis; while the supply to the lower extremities had passed through the internal mammary and epigastrics.'