1037 THE UTEEUS The tioo lateral or hroacl ligaments pass from the sides of the uterus to the lateral walls of the pelvis, forming a septum across the pelvis, which divides that cavity into two portions. In the anterior part are contained the bladder, urethra, and vagina ; in the posterior part, the rectum. Between the two layers of each broad ligament are contained : (i) the Fallopian tubes superiorly ; (2) the round ligament; (3) the ovary and its ligament; (4) the parovarium, or organ of Eosenmiiller ; (5) connective tissue; and (6) unstriped muscular fibre. Between the fimbriated extremity of the tube and the lower attachment of the broad ligament is a concave rounded margin called the infunclihulo-pelvic ligament (fig. 616). The sacro-uterine ligaments pass from the second and third bones of the sacrum, downwards and forwards, to be attached one on each side of the uterus at the junction of the supravaginal cervix and the body, this point corresponding internally to the position of the os internum. The cavity of the uterus is small in comparison with the size of the organ : Fig. 614.—Side view of the female pelvic organs. (From a preparation in the Museum of the lioyal College of Snri^eons.) that portion of the cavity which corresponds to the body is triangular, flattened from before backwards, so that its walls are closely approximated, and having its base directed upwards towards the fundus. At each superior angle is a funnel- shaped cavity, which constitutes the remains of the division of the body of the uterus into two cornua ; and at the bottom of each cavity is the minute orifice of the Fallopian tube. At the inferior angle of the uterine cavity is a small constricted opening, the internal orifice (ostium internum), which leads into the cavity of the cervix. The cavity of the cervix is somewhat fusiform, flattened from before backwards, broader at the middle than at either extremity, and communicates, below, with the vagina. The wall of the canal presents, anteriorly and posteriorly, a longitudinal column, from which proceed a number of small oblique columns, giving the appearance of branches from the stem of a tree ; and hence the name arhor vitcB