PHALANGES 281 to distinguish it from the rest, and to indicate the foot to which it belongs ; there being one facet at the upper angle of the internal surface, and two facets, each subdivided into two parts, on the external surface, pointing to the side to which the bone belongs. The fact that the two posterior subdivisions of these external facets sometimes run into one should not be forgotten. The Third articulates behind, by means of a triangular smooth surface, with the external cuneiform; on its inner side, by two facets, with the second meta- tarsal ; and on its outer side, by a single facet, with the fourth metatarsal. The latter facet is of circular form, and situated at the upper angle of the base. The third metatarsal is known by its having at its tarsal end two undivided facets on the inner side, and a single facet on the outer. This distinguishes it from the second metatarsal, in which the two facets, found on one side of its tarsal end, are each subdivided into two. The single facet (when the bone is put in its natural position) is on the side to which the bone belongs. The Fourth is smaller in size than the preceding; its tarsal extremity presents a terminal quadrilateral surface, for articulation with the cuboid ; a smooth facet on the inner side, divided by a ridge into an anterior portion for articulation with the third metatarsal, and a posterior portion for articulation with the external cuneiform ; on the outer side a single facet, for articulation with the fifth meta- tarsal. The fourth metatarsal is known by its having a single facet on either side of the tarsal extremity, that on the inner side being divided into two parts. If this subdivision be not recognisable, the fact that its tarsal end is bent somewhat outwards will indicate the side to which it belongs. The Fifth is recognised by the tubercular eminence on the outer side of its base. It articulates behind, by a triangular surface cut obliquely from without inwards, with the cuboid ; and internally, with the fourth metatarsal. The projection on the outer side of this bone at its tarsal end at once disi^in- guishes it from the others, and points to the side to which it belongs. Articulations.—Each bone articulates with the tarsal bones by one extremity, and by the other with the first row of phalanges. The number of tarsal bones with which each metatarsal articulates, is one for the first, three for the second, one for the third, two for the fourth, and one for the fifth. Attachment of Muscles.—To the first metatarsal bone, three : part of the Tibialis anticus, the Peroneus longus, and First dorsal interosseous. To the second, four: the Adductor obliquus hallucis, and First and Second dorsal inter- osseous, and a slip from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, and occasionally a slip from the Peroneus longus. To the third, five: the Adductor obliquus hallucis. Second and Third dorsal, and First plantar interosseous, and a slip from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. To the fourth, five : the Adductor obliquus hallucis. Third and Fourth dorsal, and Second plantar interosseous, and a slip from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. To the fifth, six : the Peroneus brevis, Peroneus tertius, Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Adductor transversus hallucis. Fourth dorsal, and Third plantar interosseous. Phalanges The Phalanges of the foot, both in number and general arrangement, resemble those in the hand; there being two in the great toe, and three in each of the other toes. The phalanges of ih.Q first roio resemble closely those of the hand. The shaft is compressed from side to side, convex above, concave below. The ijosterior extremity is concave ; and the anterior extremity presents a trochlear surface, for articulation with the second phalanges. The phalanges of the second roio are remarkably small and short, but rather broader than those of the first row. The ungual phalanges, in form, resemble those of the fingers; but they are smaller, flattened from above downwards, presenting a broad base for articulation