GENEEAL ANATOMY 12 processes, which are direct prolongations of the cell-protoplasm, like hairs or eye- lashes (ciha) standing up from the free surface. If the cells are examined during life or immediately on removal from the living body (for which in the human Fig. io.—Spheroidal epithelium. Magnified 250 times. Fig. II.—Ciliated epithelium from the human trachea. Magnified 350 times. a. Innermost laj-ers of the elastic longitudinal fibres. 5. Homogeneous innermost layers of the mucous membrane, c. Deepest round cells. d. Middle elongated cells, e. Superficial cells, bearing cilia. subject the removal of a nasal polypus offers a convenient opportunity) in tepid water, the cilia will be seen in lashing motion ; and if the cells are separate, they will often be seen to be moved about in the field by that motion. The situations in which ciliated epithelium is found in the human body are : the respiratory tract from the nose downwards, the tympanum and Eustachian tube, the Fallopian tube and upper portion of the uterus, the vasa efferentia, coni vasculosi, and first part of the excretory duct of the testicle, and the ventricles of the brain and central canal of the spinal cord. Stratified epithelium consists of several layers of cells superimposed one on the top of the other and varying greatly in shape. The cells of the deepest layer are for the most part columnar Fig. 12.—Part ofperitonealsm-faceofthe central tendon in form, and as a rule form a of diaphragm of rabbit, prepared with nitrate of silver, g-^^.^^ ^^^^^^ placed vertically on the supporting membrane ; above these are several layers of spheroidal cells, which as they approach the surface be- come more and more com- pressed, until the superficial layers are found to consist of flattened scales, the margins of which overlap one another, so as to present an imbricated appearance. Another form of stratified epithelium is found in what has been termed tran- sitional epithelium, such as exists in the ureters and uri- nary bladder. Here the cells of the most superficial layer are cubical, with depressions on their under surfaces, which fit on to the rounded ends of the cells of the second layer, which are pear-shaped, the apices touching the basement-membrane. Between their tapering points is a third variety of cells, filling in the intervals between them, and of smaller size than those of the other two layers. s. Stomata. 1. Lymph-channels, t. Tendo)i-buudles are surrounded by germinating endothelial cells, book for the Physiological Laboratory.' Klein.) The stomata (From ' Hand-