OF THE BACK 413 front by the transverse processes of the kimbar vertebrae, and by the middle lamella of the lumbar fascia. Opposite the last rib it divides into two parts, the Ilio-costalis and the Longissimus dorsi. The Ilio-costalis {Sacro-lumhalis), the external and smaller portion of the Erector spinas, is inserted, generally, by six or seven flattened tendons, into the angles of the six or seven lower ribs. The number of the tendons of this muscle is, however, very variable, and therefore the number of ribs into which it is inserted. Frequently it is found to possess nine or ten tendons, and sometimes as many tendons as there are ribs, and is then inserted into the angles of all the ribs. If this muscle is reflected outwards, it will be seen to be reinforced by a series of muscular slips, which arise from the angles of the ribs ; by means of these the Ilio- costalis is continued upwards to the upper ribs, and the cervical portion of the spine. The accessory portions form tAvo additional muscles, the Musculus accessorius and the Cervicalis ascendens. The Musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem arises, by separate flattened tendons, from the angles of the six lower ribs ; these become muscular, and are finally inserted, by separate tendons, into the angles of the six upper ribs. The Cervicalis ascendens* is the continuation of the Accessorius upwards into the neck; it is situated on the inner side of the tendons of the Accessorius, arising from the angles of the four or five upper ribs, and is inserted by a series of slender tendons into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebras. The Longissimus dorsi is the inner and larger portion of the Erector spinas. In the lumbar region, where it is as yet blended with the Ilio-costalis, some of the fibres are attached to the whole length of the posterior surface of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras, to the tubercles at the back of the articular processes, and to the middle layer of the lumbar fascia. In the dorsal region, the Longissimus dorsi is inserted, by long thin tendons, into the tips of the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae, and into from seven to eleven of the lower ribs between their tubercles and angles. This muscle is continued upwards, to the cranium and cervical portion of the spine, by means of two additional muscles, the Transversalis colli and Trachelo-mastoid. The Transversalis colli (or cervicis), placed on the inner side of the Longis- simus dorsi, arises by long thin tendons from the summits of the transverse processes of the six upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted by similar tendons into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae from the second to the sixth. The Trachelo-mastoid lies on the inner side of the preceding, between it and the Complexus muscle. It arises, by four tendons, from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebrae, and by additional separate tendons from the articular processes of the three or four lower cervical. The fibres form a small muscle, which ascends to be inserted into the posterior margin of the mastoid process, beneath the Splenius and Sterno-mastoid muscles. This small muscle is almost always crossed by a tendinous intersection near its insertion into the mastoid process, j Relations.—The Erector spinae and its prolongations are bound down to the vertebrae and ribs in the lumbar and dorsal regions by the lumbar fascia and the vertebral aponeurosis. The inner part of these muscles covers the muscles of the fifth layer. In the neck, they are in relation, by their superficial surface, with the Trapezius and Splenius ; by their deep surface, with the Semispinalis dorsi et colli, and the Recti and Obliqui. * This muscle is sometimes called ' Cervicalis descendens.' The student should remember that these long muscles take their fixed point from above or from below, according to circumstances. t These two muscles are sometimes described as one, having a common origin, but dividing above at their insertion. The Trachelo-mastoid is then termed the Transversalis capitis.