961 STRUCTUEE OF THE HEART they ran in a transverse direction, forming a thin but incomplete layer. Some of these fibres pass into the septum auricularum. The internal or deep fibres proper to each auricle consist of two sets, looped and annular fibres. The looped fibres pass upwards over each auricle, being attached by two extremities to the corre- sponding auriculo-ventricular rings, in front and behind. The annular fibres surround the whole extent of the appendices auricularum, and are continued upon the walls of the venae cav^e and coronary sinus on the right side, and upon the pulmonary veins on the left side, at their connection with the heart. In the appendices they interlace with the longitudinal fibres. The fibres of the ventricles are arranged in an exceedingly complex manner, and the accounts given by various anatomists differ considerably. This is probably due, partly, to the fact that the various layers of muscular fibre of which the heart is said to be composed are not independent, but their fibres are interlaced to a considerable extent, and therefore any separation into layers must be to a great extent artificial, and also no doubt partly due to the fact, pointed out by Henle, that there are varieties in the arrangement due to individual differences. If the epicardium (visceral layer of pericardium) and the subjacent fat is removed from a heart which has been subjected to prolonged boiling, so as to dissolve the connective tissues, the superficial fibres of the ventricles will be exposed. They will be seen to commence at the base of the heart, where they are attached to the tendinous rings around the orifices, and to pass obliquely downwards towards the apex, with a direction from right to left. At the apex the fibres turn suddenly inwards, forming what is called the vortex, into the,interior of the ventricle. On the back of the heart it will be seen that the fibres pass continuously from one ventricle to the other over the interventricular groove ; and the same thing will be noticed on the front of the heart at the upper and lower end of the anterior interventricular groove, but in the middle portion of this groove the fibres passing from one ventricle to the other are interrupted by fibres emerging from the septum along the groove ; many of the superficial fibres pass in also at this groove to the septum. The vortex is produced, as stated above, by the sudden turning inwards of the superficial fibres in a peculiar spiral manner into the interior of the ventricle. Those fibres, which ^descended on the posterior surface of the heart, enter, at the vortex, the left ventricle and, ascending, form the posterior part of the inner layer of muscular fibres lining this cavity and the right (posterior) musculus papillaris ; those fibres which descend on the front of the heart, and which pass to the apex, also pass, at the vortex, into the interior of the ventricle, where they form the remainder of the innermost layer of the ventricle and the left (anterior) musculus papillaris. The fibres forming the inner layer of the wall of the ventricle ascend to be attached to the fibrous rings around the orifices. By dissection these superficial fibres may be removed as a thin stratum, and it will then be found that the ventricles are made up of oblique fibres, superimposed in layers one on the top of another, and assuming gradually a less oblique direction as they pass to the middle of the thickness of the ventricular wall, so that in the centre of the wall the fibres are transverse. Internal to this central transverse layer the fibres become oblique again, but in the opposite direction to the external ones. This division into distinct layers is, however, to a great extent artificial, as the fibres pass across from one layer to another, and have therefore to be divided in the dissection, and the change in the direction of the fibres is very gradual. These oblique fibres commence above at the fibrous rings at the base of the heart, and descending towards the apex they enter the septum near its lower end. In the septum the fibres which form the left ventricle may be traced in three directions. I. Some pass upwards to be attached to the central fibro-cartilage. 2. Others pass through the septum to become continuous with the fibres of the right ventricle. 3. And the remainder pass through the septum to encircle the ventricle as annular fibres. Of the fibres of the right ventricle, some on entering the septum pass upwards to be attached to the central fibro-cartilage; some entering the septum from behind pass forwards to become continuous with the fibres on the anterior 3Q