676 NERVOUS SYSTEM Fio. 400.—The spinal cord and its membranes. Vara -JfaU The dura mater of the cord is not adherent to the bones of the spinal canal, which have an independent periosteum. It does not send partitions into the fissures of the cord, as in the brain. Its fibrous laminae do not separate, to form venous sinuses, as in the brain. Structure.—The dura mater consists of white fibrous and elastic tissue, arranged in bands or lamellae, which, for the most part, are parallel Avith one another. Its internal surface is covered by a layer of endothelial cells, which gives this surface its smooth appearance. It is sparingly supplied with vessels; and some few nerves have been traced into it. The Arachnoid is exposed by slitting up the dura mater, and reflecting that membrane to either side (fig. 400). It is a thin, delicate, tubular mem- brane, Avhich invests the surface of the cord, and is connected to the pia mater by slender filaments of connective tissue. Above, it is continuous with the cerebral arachnoid; on each side it is con- tinued on the various nerves, so as to form a sheath for them as they pass outwards to the inter- vertebral foramina. The outer surface of the arachnoid is in contact with the inner surface of the dura mater, and the two are, here and there, connected together by isolated connective-tissue trabecule, especially on the posterior surface of the cord. For the most part, however, the membranes are not connected together, and the interval between them is named the subdural space. The inner surface of the arachnoid is separated from the pia mater by a considerable interval, which is called the suharachnoidean space. The space is largest at the lower part of the spinal canal, and encloses the mass of nerves which form the cauda equina. Superiorly it is continuous with the cranial subarachnoid space, and commu- nicates witii the general ventricular cavity of the brain, by means of an opening in the pia mater, at the inferior boundary of the fourth ventricle (foramen of Majendie). It contains an abundant serous secretion, the cerehro-sinnal fluid. This secretion is sufficient in amount to expand the arachnoid membrane, so as to completely fill up the whole of the space included in the dura mater. The suh- arachnoidean space is occupied by trabeculae of delicate connective tissue, con- necting the pia mater on the one hand with the arachnoid membrane on the other. This is named subarachnoid tissue. In addition to this it is partially subdivided by a longitudinal membranous partition, which serves to connect the arachnoid with the pia mater, opposite the posterior median fissure. This partition is incomplete, and cribriform in structure, consisting of bundles of white fibrous tissue, inter- lacing with each other. This space is to be regarded as, in reality, a great lymph- space, from which the lymph carried to it by the perivascular lymph-sheaths (see page 55) is conveyed back into the circulation. Structure.—The arachnoid is a delicate membrane, made up of closely arranged interlacing bundles of connective tissue in several layers. The Pia Mater of the cord is exposed on the removal of the arachnoid (fig. 400). Fig. 401.—Transverse section of the spinal cord and its membranes.