THE SKELETON 126 division of the bone into five separate pieces. The portions of bone intervening between the ridges correspond to the bodies of the vertebr?e. The body of the first segment is of large size, and in form resembles that of a lumbar vertebra ; the succeeding ones diminish in size from above downwards, are flattened from before backwards, and curved so as to accommodate themselves to the form of the sacrum, being concave in front, convex behind. At each end of the ridges above mentioned are seen the anterior sacral foramina, Fig. 123.—Vertical section of the sacrum. analogous to the intervertebral foramina, four in number on each side, somewhat rounded in form, diminishing in size from above downwards, and directed outwards and forwards ; they transmit the anterior branches of the sacral nerves. External to these foramina is the lateral mass, consisting, at an early period of life, of separate segments; these become blended, in the adult, with the bodies, with each other, and with the posterior transverse processes. Each lateral mass is traversed by four broad, shallow grooves, which lodge the an- terior sacral nerves as they pass out- wards, the grooves being separated by prominent ridges of bone, which give attachment to the slips of the Pyriformis muscle. If a vertical section is made through the centre of the bone (tig. 123), the bodies are seen to be united at their cir- cumference by bone, a wide interval being left centrally, which, in the recent state, is filled by intervertebral substance. In some bones, this union is more com- plete between the lower segments than between the upper ones. The Posterior Surface (fig. 124) is convex and much narrower than the anterior. In the middle line are three or four tubercles, which represent the rudimentary spinous processes of the sacral vertebra. Of these tubercles, the first is usually prominent, and perfectly distinct from the rest; the second and third are either separate or united into a tubercular ridge, which diminishes in size from above downwards; the fourth usually, and the fifth always, remaining undeveloped. External to the spinous processes on each side are the lamince, broad and well marked in the first three pieces ; some- times the fourth, and generally the fifth, being undeveloped : in this situation the lower end of the sacral canal is exposed, and is liable to be opened in the sloughing of bed-sores. External to the lamina is a linear series of indistinct tubercles representing the articular processes ; the upper pair are large, well developed, and correspond in shape and direction to the superior articulating processes of a lumbar vertebra ; the second and third are small; the fourth and fifth (usually blended together) are situated on each side of the sacral canal: they are called the sacral comua, and articulate with the cornua of the coccyx. External to the articular processes are the torn posterior sacral foramina ; they are smaller in size and less regular in form than the anterior, and transmit the posterior branches of the sacral nerves. On the outer side of the posterior sacral foramina is a series of tubercles, the rudimentary transverse processes of the sacral vertebrae. The ^first pair of transverse tubercles are of large size, very distinct, and correspond with each