ULNAR 785 branches to the contiguous sides of the index and middle, and of the middle and ring fingers. The branch to the muscles of the thumb is a short nerve, which subdivides to supply the Abductor, Opponens, and outer head of the Flexor brevis pollicis muscles; the remaining muscles of this group being supplied by the ulnar nerve. The digital branches are five in number. The first and seco7id pass along the borders of the thumb, the external branch communicating with branches of the radial nerve. The third passes along the radial side of the index finger, and supplies the First lumbricalis muscle. The foierth subdivides to supply the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers, and sends a branch to the Second lumbrical muscle. The fifth supplies the adjacent sides of the middle and ring fingers, and communicates with a branch from the ulnar nerve. Each digital nerve, opposite the base of the first phalanx, gives off a dorsal branch, which joins the dorsal digital nerve from the radial, and runs along the side of the dorsum of the finger, to end in the integument over the last phalanx, x^-t the end of the finger, the digital nerve divides into a palmar and a dorsal branch : the former of which supplies the extremity of the finger, and the latter ramifies round and beneath the nail. The digital nerves, as they run along the fingers, are placed superficial to the digital arteries. The Ulnar Nerve (fig. 461) is placed along the inner or ulnar side of the upper limb, and is distributed to the muscles and integument of the forearm and hand. It is smaller than the median, behind which it is placed, diverging from it in its course down the arm. It arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, in common with the inner head of the median and the internal cutaneous nerve, and derives its fibres from the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves. At its commence- ment it lies at the inner side of the axillary artery, and holds the same relation with the brachial artery to the middle of the arm. From this point it runs obliquely across the internal head of the Triceps, pierces the internal intermuscular septum, and descends to the groove betw^een the internal condyle and the olecranon, accom- panied by the inferior profunda artery. At the elbow, it rests upon the back of the inner condyle, and passes into the forearm between the two heads of the Flexor carpi ulnaris. In the forearm, it descends in a perfectly straight course along its ulnar side, lying upon the Flexor profundus digitorum, its upper half being covered by the Flexor carpi ulnaris, its lower half lying on the outer side of the muscle, covered by the integument and fascia. The ulnar artery, in the upper third of its course, is separated from the ulnar nerve by a considerable interval; but in the rest of its extent the nerve lies to its inner side. At the wrist the ulnar nerve crosses the annular ligament on the outer side of the pisiform bone, to the inner side, and a little behind the ulnar artery, and immediately beyond this bone divides into two branches, superficial and deep palmar. The branches of the ulnar nerve are :— The articular branches distributed to the elbow-joint consist of several small filaments. They arise from the nerve as it lies in the groove between the inner condyle and olecranon. The muscular branches are two in number : one supplying the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; the other, the inner half of the Flexor profundus digitorum. They arise from the trunk of the nerve near the elbow. The cutaneous branch arises from the ulnar nerve about the middle of the fore- arm, and divides into two branches. One branch (frequently absent) pierces the deep fascia near the wrist, and is x\rticular (elbow). (Muscular. I Superficial palmar. (Deep palmar. In the forearm J Cutaneous. In the hand I Dorsal cutaneous. 'Articular (wrist). 3E