GENERAL ANATOMY 66 sometimes, for example, to muscle, as in the tongue ; sometimes to cartilage, as in the larynx ; and sometimes to bone, as in the nasal fossae and sinuses of the skull. In structure a mucous membrane is composed of corium and epithelium. The epithelium is of various forms, including the squamous, columnar, and ciliated, and is often arranged in several layers (see fig. ii). This epithelial layer is supported by the corium, which is analogous to the derma of the skin, and con- sists of connective tissue, either simply areolar, or containing a greater or less quantity of lymphoid tissue. This tissue is usually covered on its external surface by a transparent structureless basement-membrane, and internally merges into the submucous areolar tissue. It is only in some situations that the basement-mem- brane can be demonstrated. The corium is an exceedingly vascular membrane, containing a dense network of capillaries, which lie immediately beneath the epithelium, and are derived from small arteries in the submucous tissue. The fibro-vascular layer of the corium contains, besides the areolar tissue and vessels, unstriped muscle-cells, which form in many situations a definite layer, called the mnscularis mucoscz. These are situated in the deepest part of the mem- brane, and are plentifully supphed with nerves. Other nerves pass to the epithelium and terminate between the cells. Lymphatic vessels are found in great abundance, commencing either by csecal extremities or in networks, and communicating with plexuses in the submucous tissue. Embedded in the mucous membrane are found numerous glands, and projecting from it are processes (villi and papillae) analogous to the papillae of the skin. These glands and processes, however, exist only at certain parts, and it will be more convenient to defer their description to the sequel, where the parts are described as they occur. SECRETING GLANDS The secreting glands are organs in which the blood, circulating in capillary vessels, is brought into contact with epithelial cells, whereby certain elements are separated (' secreted') ou*t of the blood. The essential parts therefore of a secreting gland are cells, which have the power of extracting from the blood certain matters, and in some cases convertmg them into new chemical compounds ; and blood-vessels, by which the blood is brought into close relationship Avith these cells. The general arrangement in all secreting structures—that is to say, not only in secreting glands, but also in secreting membranes—is that the cells are arranged on one surface of an extra-vascular basement-membrane, which supports them, and a minute plexus of capillary vessels ramifies on the other surface of the membrane. The cells then extract from the blood certain constituents which pass through the membrane into the cells, where they are prepared and elaborated. The basement- membrane does not, however, always exist, and any free surface would appear to answer the same purpose in some cases. By the various modifications of this secreting surface the different glands are formed. This is generally effected by an involution of the membraiie in different ways, the object being to increase the extent of secreting surface within a given bulk. In the simplest form a single involution takes place, constituting a simple gland ; this may be either in the form of an open tube (fig. 71, a), or the walls of the tube may be dilated so as to form a saccule (fig. 71, b). These are named the simple tubular or saccular glands. Or, instead of a short tube, the involution may be lengthened to a considerable extent, and then coiled up to occupy less space. This constitutes the simple convoluted tubular gland, an example of which may be seen in the sweat-glands of the skin (fig. 71, c). If, instead of a single involution, secondary involutions take place from the primary one, as in fig. 71, D and e, the gland is then termed a compound one. These secondary involutions may assume either a saccular or tubular form, and so constitute the two subdivisions—the compound saccular or racemose gland, and the