372 MUSCLES AND FASCIA punctii lachrymalici. Its fibres appear to be continuous with those of the palpebral portion of the Orbicularis palpebrarum; it is occasionally very indistinct. Nerves.—The Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, and Tensor tarsi are supplied by the l":u'i;il lUM've. Actions.—The Orlnculaiis palpebrarum is the sphincter nniscle of the eyelids. The palpebral portion acts involuntarily, closing the lids gently, as in sleep or in blinking; the orbicular portion is subject to the will. When the entire muscle is brouglit into action, the skin of the forehead, temple, and cheek is drawn inwards to- wards the inner angle of the orbit, and the eyelids are firmly closed as in photophobia. When the skin of the forehead, temple, and cheek is thus drawn inwards by the action of the muscle it is thrown into folds, especially radiating from the outer angle of the eyelids, which give rise in old age to the so-called ' crow's feet.' The Levator palpebraa is the direct antagonist of this muscle ; it raises the upper eyelid and exposes the globe. The Corrugator supercilii draws the eyebrow downwards and inwards, producing the vertical wrinkles of the forehead. It is the ' frowning ' muscle, and may be regarded as the principal agent in the expression of sufitering. The Tensor tarsi draws the eyelids and the extremities of the lachrymal canals inwards and compresses them against the surface of the globe of the eye; thus placing them in the most favourable situation for receiving the tears. It serves, also, to compress the lachrymal sac. 4. Orbital Region (fig. 271) Levator palpebrj"e superioris. Rectus internus. Rectus superior. Rectus externus. Rectus inferior. Obliquus oculi superior. Obliquus oculi inferior. Dissection.—To open the cavity of the orbit, remove the sknll-cap and brain-, then saw ihvoiii^h tlie frontal bone at tlie inner extreniity of the supra-orbital ridge, and externally Fig. 271.—Musck^rt of the ri^-l\t, oi'bit. at its junction with the malar. Break in pieces tlie tliin roof of the orbit by a few slight blows of i\\c hammer, and take it away; drive forward the superciliary portion of the frontal boui' by a smart stroke, but do not remove it, as tha,t would destroy the pulley of the Oblicpnis superior. When the fragments are cleai'od awiiy, the periosteum of the orbit will be exposed ; this being removed, together with tlic i'at which tills the cavity of the orbit, the several muscles of this region can be examined. The dissection will be facilitated by distending the globe of the eye. Tn order to efiect this, puncture the optic nerve near the eyeball with a cur\ ed needles and ])ush the needle onwards into the globe; insert the point of a blow-pipe through this a|)erture, and force a little air into the cavity of the eyeball; then apply a ligature round the nerve so as to prevent the air escapin<i:. The globe being now drawn forwards, the muscles will be put upon the stretch.