424 MUSCLES AND FASCIA three lining its upper or thoracic surface ; one, its abclominaL The three serous membranes on its upper surface are the pleura on either side, and the serous layer of the pericardium, which covers the middle portion of the tendinous centre. The serous membrane covering its under surface is a portion of the general peritoneal membrane of the abdominal cavity. The Diaphragm is arched, being convex towards the chest, and concave to the abdomen. The right iwrtion forms a complete arch from before backwards, being accurately moulded over the convex surface of the liver, and having resting upon it the concave base of the right lung. The left portion is arched from before backwards in a similar manner ; but the arch is narrower in front, being encroached upon by the pericardium, and lower than the right, at its summit, by about three-quarters of an inch. It supports the base of the left lung, and covers the great end of the stomach, the spleen, and left kidney. At its circumference the Diaphragm is higher in the mesial line of the body than at either side ; but in the middle of the thorax, the central portion, which supports the heart, is on a lower level than the two lateral portions. Nerves.—The Diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic nerves and phrenic plexus of the sympathetic. Actions.—The Diaphragm is the principal muscle of inspiration. When in a condition of rest the muscle presents a domed surface, concave towards the abdo- men ; and consists of a circumferential muscular and a central tendinous part. When the muscular fibres contract, they become less arched, or nearly straight, and thus cause the central tendon to descend, and in consequence the level of the chest wall is lowered, the vertical diameter of the chest being proportionally increased. In this descent the different parts of the tendon move unequally. The left leaflet descends to the greatest extent; the right to a less extent, on account of the liver; and the central leaflet the least, because of its connection to the pericardium. In descending the diaphragm presses on the abdominal viscera, and so to a certain extent causes a projection of the abdominal wall; but in conse- quence of these viscera not yielding completely, the central tendon becomes a fixed point, and enables the circumferential muscular fibres to act from it, and so elevate the lower ribs and expand the lower part of the thoracic cavity ; and Duchenne has shown that the Diaphragm has the power of elevating the ribs, to which it is attached, by its contraction, if the abdominal viscera are in situ, but that if these organs are removed, this power is lost. When at the end of inspiration, the Diaphragm relaxes, the thoracic walls return to their natural position in conse- quence of their elastic reaction and of the elasticity and weight of the displaced viscera.* In all expulsive acts the Diaphragm is called into action, to give additional power to each expulsive effort. Thus, before sneezing, coughing, laughing, and crying; before vomiting; previous to the expulsion of the urine and faeces, or of the foetus from the womb, a deep inspiration takes place. The height of the Diaphragm is constantly varying during respiration, the muscle being carried upwards or downwards from the average level; its height also A^aries according to the degree of distension of the stomach and intestines, and the size of the liver. After a forced expiration, the right arch is on a level, in front with the fourth costal cartilage ; at the side, with the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs ; and behind with the eighth rib; the left arch being usually from one to two ribs' breadth below the level of the right one. In a forced inspiration, it descends from one to two inches; its slope would then be represented by a line drawn from the ensiform cartilage towards the tenth rib. * For a detailed description of the general relations of the Diaphragm, and its action, refer to Dr. Sibson's Medical Anatomy.