OF THE PERIN/EUM 441 Between the muscles just examined a triangular space exists, bounded internally by the Accelerator urinas, externally by the Erector penis, and behind by the Transversus perinaei. The floor of this space is formed by the triangular ligament of the urethra (deep perineal fascia), and running from behind forwards in it are the superficial perineal vessels and nerve, and. the transverse perineal artery coursing along the posterior boundary of the space on the Transversus perinaei muscle. The Triangular Ligament {Deep perineal fascia) is a dense membranous lamina, which closes the front part of the outlet of the pelvis. It is triangular in shape, about an inch and a half in depth, attached above, by its apex, to the under surface of the symphysis pubis and subpubic ligament; and on each side to the rami of the ischium and pubes, beneath the crura penis. Its inferior margin, or base, is directed towards the rectum, and connected to the central tendinous point of the perinaeum. It is continuous with the deep layer of the superficial fascia behind the Transversus perinaei muscle, and with a thin fascia which covers the cutaneous surface of the Levator ani muscle (anal or ischio-rectal fascia). Fig. 300.—Triangular ligament or deep perineal fascia. On the left side the superficial layer has been removed. The triangular ligament is perforated by the urethra, about an inch below the symphysis pubis. The aperture is circular in form, and about three or four lines in diameter. Above this is the aperture for the dorsal vein of the penis; and, outside the latter, branches of the pudic nerve and artery pierce it. The triangular ligament consists of two layers, superficial or inferior, and deep or superior ; these are separated in front, but united behind. The superficial layer is continued forwards, around the anterior part of the membranous portion of the urethra, becoming lost upon the bulb. It is pierced by the duct of Cowper's gland. The deep layer is derived from the obturator fascia; * it is continued backwards around the posterior part of the membranous portion of the urethra and the outer surface of the prostate gland. * ' On the Anatomy of the Posterior Layer of the Triangular Ligament,' see a paper by Mr. Carrington, Guy's Hospital Beports. CompTessor urethrm Internal pudic artery Artery of the bulb C'owpe?''s gland Anterior layer of deep pe?'i7ieal fascia removed, showing,