CRANIAL NERVES Fifth Neeve The Fifth or Trifacial Nerve {trigeminus) is the largest cranial nerve. It resembles a spinal nerve : (i) in arising by two roots ; (2) in having a ganglion developed on its posterior root ; and (3) in its function, since it is a compound nerve. It is the great sensory nerve of the head and face, and the motor nerve of the muscles of mastication. Its upper two divisions are entirely sensory, the third division is partly sensory and partly motor. It arises by two roots : of these the anterior is the smaller, and is the motor root; the posterior, the larger and sensory. Its suijerficial origin is from the side of the pons VaroHi, nearer to the upper than the lower border. The smaller root consists of three or four bundles ; the larger root consists of numerous bundles of fibres, varying in number from seventy to a hundred. The two roots are separated from one another by a few of the transverse fibres of the pons. The deep origin of the larger or sensory root is from a nucleus on a level with the middle of the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, just internal to the margin of the fourth ventricle. The deeiJ origin of the smaller or motor root is from a nucleus internal to the sensory root, and just external to the fasciculus teres on the floor of the fourth ventricle. The two roots of the nerve pass forwards through an oval opening in the dura mater, on the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, above the internal auditory meatus : they then run between the bone and the dura mater to the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, where the fibres of the sensory root form a large, semilunar ganglion (Gasserian), while the motor root passes beneath the ganglion without having any connection with it, and joins outside the cranium with one of the trunks derived from it. The Gasserian or semilunar g'anglion* is lodged in a depression near the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is of somewhat crescentic form, with its convexity turned forwards. Its upper surface is intimately adherent to the dura mater. Besides the small or motor root, the large superficial petrosal nerve lies underueath the ganglion. Branches of communication.—This ganglion receives, on its inner side, fila- ments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic. Branches of distribution.—It -gives off minute branches to the tentorium cerebelli and the dura mater, in the middle fossa of the cranium. From its anterior border, which is directed forwards and outwards, three large branches proceed : the ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. The ophthalmic and superior maxillary consist exclusively of fibres derived from the larger root and ganglion, and are solely nerves of common sensation. The third division, or inferior maxillary, is joined outside the cranium by the motor root. This, therefore, strictly speaking, is the only portion of the fifth nerve which can be said to resemble a spinal nerve. Ophthalmic Neeve (figs. 440, 442, 443) The Ophthalmic, or first division of the fifth, is a sensory nerve. It supplies the eyeball, the lachrymal gland, the mucous lining of the eye and nasal fossfe, and the integument of the eyebrow, forehead, and nose. It is the smallest of the three divisions of the fifth, arising from the upper part of the Gasserian ganglion. It is a short, flattened band, about an inch in length, which passes forwards along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, below the other nerves, and just before entering the orbit, through the sphenoidal fissure, divides into three branches, lachrymal, frontal, and nasal. Branches of communication.—The ophthalmic nerve is joined by filaments * A Viennese anatomist, Eainmnd Baltliasar Hirsch (1765), was the first who recognised the ganglionic nature of the swelling on the sensory root of the fifth nerve, and called it, m honour of his otherwise unknown teacher, Jon. Laur. Gasser, the ' Ganglion Gasseri.' Julius Casserins, whose name is given to the musculo-cutaneous nerve of the arm, was Professor at Padua, 1545-1605. See Hyrtl, Lehrbnch der Anatomie, p. 895 and p. 55.