965 CHANGES IN VASCULAR SYSTEM AT BIRTH passes into the pulmonary artery. The kmgs of the fcetus being solid, and almost impervious, only a small quantity of the blood of the pulmonary artery is distri- buted to them, by the right and left pulmonary arteries, and is returned by the pulmonary veins to the left auricle : the greater part passes through the ductus arteriosus into the commencement of the descending aorta, where it becomes mixed with a small quantity of blood transmitted by the left ventricle into the aorta. Along this vessel it descends to supply the lower extremities and viscera of the abdomen and pelvis, the chief portion being, however, conveyed by the umbilical arteries to the placenta. From the preceding account of the circulation of the blood in the foetus, it will be seenѥ 1. That the placenta serves the double purpose of a respiratory and nutri- tive organ, receiving the venous blood from the foetus, and returning it again re-oxygenated, and charged with additional nutritive material. 2. That nearly the whole of the blood of the umbilical vein traverses the liver before entering the inferior cava ; hence the large size of this organ, especially at an early period of foetal life. 3. That the right auricle is the point of meeting of a double current, the blood in the inferior cava being guided by the Eustachian valve into the left auricle, whilst that in the superior cava descends into the right ventricle. At an early period of foetal life it is highly probable that the two streams are quite distinct; for the inferior cava opens almost directly into the left auricle, and the Eustachian valve would exclude the current along the vein from entering the right ventricle. At a later period, as the separation between the two auricles becomes more distinct, it seems j)robable that some mixture of the two streams must take place. 4. The blood carried from the placenta to the foetus by the umbilical vein, mixed with the blood from the inferior cava, passes almost dhectly to the arch of the aorta, and is distributed by the branches of that vessel to the head and upper extremities : hence the large size and perfect development of those parts at birth. 5. The blood contained in the descending aorta, chiefly derived from that which has already circulated through the head and limbs, together with a small quantity from the left ventricle, is distributed to the lower extremities : hence the small size and imperfect development of these parts at birth. Changes in the Vasculak System at Bieth At birth, when respiration is established, an increased amount of blood from the pulmonary artery passes through the lungs, which now perform their office as respiratory organs, and, at the same time, the placental circulation is cut off. The foramen ovale becomes gradually closed by about the tenth day after birth ; the valvular fold above mentioned becomes adherent to the margins of the foramen for the greater part of its circumference, but above a slit-like opening is left between the two auricles which sometimes remains persistent. The ductus arteriosus begins to contract immediately after respiration is established, becomes completely closed from the fourth to the tenth day, and ultimately degenerates into an impervious cord, which serves to connect the left pulmonary artery to the descending aorta. Of tbe umbilical or hyijocjastric arteries, the portion continued on to the bladder from the trunk of the corresponding internal iliac remains pervious, as the superior vesical artery ; and the part between the fundus of the bladder and the umbilicus becomes obliterated between the second and fifth days after birth, and projects into the peritoneal sac, so as to form the two fossae of the peritoneum, spoken of in the section on the surgical anatomy of direct inguinal hernia. The umbilical vein and ductus venosus become completely obliterated between the second and fifth days after birth, and ultimately dwindle to fibrous cords ; the former becoming the round ligament of the hver, the latter the fibrous cord, which, in the adult, may be traced along the fissure of the ductus venosus.