MUSCLES AND FASCIA 486 Fig. 326.—Muscles of the iliac and anterior femoral regions. femur, tuberosities of the tibia, and head of the fibula. On each side of the patella it is strengthened by transverse fibres given off from the lower part of the Vasti muscles, which are attached to and support this bone. Of these the outer is the stronger, and is continuous with the ilio-tibial band. From the inner surface of the fascia lata are given off two strong inter- muscular septa, which are attached to the whole length of the linea aspera and its prolongations above and below : the external and stronger one, which extends from the insertion of the Gluteus maxi- mus to the outer condyle, separates the Vastus externus in front from the short head of the Biceps behind, and gives partial origin to these muscles ; the inner one, the thinner of the two, separates the Vastus internus from the Adductor and Pectineus muscles. Besides these there are numerous smaller septa, separating the individual muscles, and enclosing each in a distinct sheath. At the upper and inner part of the thigh, a little below Poupart's ligament, a large oval-shaped aperture is observed after the superficial fascia has been cleared off : it transmits the internal saphenous vein, and other smaller vessels, and is termed . the saphenous oijen ing. In order more correctly to consider the mode of forma- tion of this aperture, the fascia lata in this part of the thigh is described as consisting of two portions, an iliac portion and a pubic portion. The iliac 'portion is all that part of the fascia lata on the outer side of the saphenous opening. It is attached, ex- ternally, to the crest of the ilium and its anterior superior spine, to the whole length of Poupart's ligament as far in- ternally as the spine of the os pubis, and to the pectineal line in conjunction with Gimbernat's ligament. From the spine of the OS pubis it is reflected downwards and outwards, forming an arched margin, the boundary or falciform process {su- perior cornii) of the saphenous opening ; this margin overlies and is adherent to the anterior layer of the sheath of the femoral vessels : to its edge is attached the cribriform fascia; and, below, it is continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The pubic portion is situated at the inner side of the saphenous opening; at