SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM 1076 The obturator fascia descends and covers the Obturator internus muscle. It is a direct continuation of the pelvic fascia below the white line above mentioned, and is attached to the pubic arch and to the margin of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From its attachment to the rami of the os pubis and ischium a process is given off which is continuous with a similar process from the opposite side, so as to close the front part of the outlet of the pelvis, forming the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. This fascia forms a canal for the pudic vessels and nerve in their passage forwards to the perineum, and gives off a thin membrane which covers the perineal aspect of the Levator ani muscle, called the iscliio-rectal {anal) fascia. The recto-vesical fascia {visceral layer of the pelvic fascia) descends into the pelvis upon the upper surface of the Levator ani muscle, and invests the prostate, bladder, and rectum. From the inner surface of the symphysis pubis a short rounded band is continued to the upper surface of the prostate and neck of the bladder, forming the pubo-prostatic or anterior true ligaments of the bladder. At the side, this fascia is connected to the side of the prostate, enclosing this gland and the vesico-prostatic plexus of veins, and is continued upwards on the side of the bladder, forming the lateral true ligaments of the organ. Another prolongation invests the vesiculae seminales, and passes across between the bladder and rectum, being continuous with the same fascia of the opposite side. Another thin prolongation is reflected round the surface of the lower end of the rectum. The Levator ani muscle arises from the point of division of the pelvic fascia; the visceral layer of the fascia descending upon and being intimately adherent to the upper surface of the muscle, while the under surface of the muscle is covered by a thin layer derived from the obturator fascia, called the ischio-rectal or anal fascia. In the female, the vagina perforates the recto-vesical fascia, and receives a prolongation from it.