9o8 . ORCVANS OF DIGESTION ^ according to Clendenning, is about four ounces and a half. It presents for exai:aii^a- tion two extremities, two orifices, two borders, and two surfaces. Its 2ipper extremity is called the gi'eater or splenic end. This is the largest part of the stomach, and extends two or three inches to the left of the point of entrance of the oesophagus. This expanded part is called the great cul-de-sac, or fundus. It lies behind the lower ribs, in contact with the Diaphragm, and is connected posteriorly to the spleen by the gastro-splenic omentum. The lesser or pyloric end is much smaller than the fundus, and situated on a plane anterior and inferior to it. It lies in contact with the wall of the abdomen, and the under surface of the liver. Its position on the surface of the body varies with the degree of distension of the organ. Near the pyloric end there is a double bend in the stomach, attended by an appearance of constriction, The distal bend corresponds to the situation of the pyloric valve, and between the two there is a bulging which is named the lesser cul-de-sac or antrimi pylori. The esophageal or cardiac orifice communicates with the oesophagus ; it is somewhat funnel-shaped. The pyloric orifice communicates with the duodenum, the aperture being guarded by a kind of valve—the pylorus. The lesser citrvature extends between the oesophageal and pyloric orifices, along the right border of the organ, and is connected to the under surface of the liver by the lesser omentum. The greater curvature extends between the same two points, along the left border, and gives attachment to the great omentum. The surfaces of the organ are limited by these two curvatures. The anterior surface is directed upwards and forwards, and is in relation with the Diaphragm, the under surface of the left lobe of the liver, and with the abdominal parietes. The posterior surface is directed downwards and backwards, and is in relation with the spleen, the pancreas, the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, and the transverse meso-colon. The stomach is held in position by the lesser omentum, which extends from the transverse fissure of the liver to its lesser curvature, and by a fold of peritoneum, Avhich passes from the Diaphragm on to the oesophageal end of the stomach, the gastro-phrenic ligament : this constitutes the most fixed point of the stomach, whilst the pyloric end and greater curvature are the most movable parts. To its greater curvature is attached the great omentum, by which it is connected to the transverse colon. Alterations in Position.—There is no organ in the body the position and connections of which present such frequent alterations as the stomatih.- Dm'ing inspiration it is displaced downwards by the descent of the Diaphragm, and elevatecWby the pressure of the abdominal muscles during expiration. Its position m relation to the surrounding viscera is also changed according to the empty,or distended state of the organ. When empty, it lies at the back part of the abdOmen,'Sonie distalice froAi the-'surface. The left lobe of the liver covers it in front, and the under surface of the heart rests upon it above and in front, being separated from it by the left lobe of the liver, besides the Diaphragm and pericardium. This close relation between the stomach and the heart explains the fact that, in gastralgia, the pain is generally referred to the heart, and is often accompanied by palpitation and intermipsion of the pulse. When the stomach is distended, the greater curvature is elevated and carried forwards, so that the anterior surface is turned upwards and the posterior surface downwards, and the stomach brought well against the anterior wall of the abdomen.* The Diaphraj^m at the same time is forced upwards, contracting the cavity of the chest; hence the dyspnoea complained of, from inspiration being impeded. The heart is also displaced upwards ; hence the oppression m this region, and the palpitation experienced in extreme distension of the stomach. Pressure from ivithout, as from tight lacing, pushes the stomach down towards the pelvis. In disease, also, the position and connections of the organ may be greatly changed, from the accumulation of fluid in the chest or abdomen, or from alteration in size of any of the surrounding viscera. * This is denied by Dr. Lesshaft, of St. Petersburg, who states that ' if the stomach is enlarged, no one part can be alone displaced, but all parts are equally moved by the distension.'—Lancet, March ii, 1882, p. 406.