ARTICULATIONS 320 only lift it to a right angle with the trunk, the further elevation of the limb being effected by the Trapezius moving the scapula on the wall of the chest. This mobihty is of special importance in ankylosis of the shoulder-joint, the movements of this bone compensating to a very great extent for the immobility of the joint. IV. Shoulder-Joint (fig. 243) The Shoulder is an enarthrodial or ball-and-socket joint. The bones entering into its formation are the large globular head of the humerus, which is received into the shalloAv glenoid cavity of the scapula, an arrangement which permits of very considerable movement, whilst the joint itself is protected against displacement by the tendons which surround it and by atmospheric pressure. The ligaments do Fig. 244.—Vertical sections through the shoulder-joint, the arm being vertical and horizontal. (After Henle.) BICEPS TEF?eS MAJOR not maintain the joint surfaces in apposition, because when they alone remain the humerus can be separated to a considerable extent from the glenoid cavity ; their use therefore is to limit the amount of movement. Above, the joint is protected by an arched vault, formed by the under surface of the coracoid and acromion processes, and the coraco-acromial ligament. The articular surfaces are covered by a layer of cartilage : that on the head of the humerus is thicker at the centre than at the circumference, the reverse being the case in the glenoid cavity. The liga- ments of the shoulder are, the Capsular. Coraco-humeral. Glenoid.* Transverse humeral. The Capsular Ligament completely encircles the articulation ; being attached, above, to the circumference of the glenoid cavity beyond the glenoid ligament; below, to the anatomical neck of the humerus, approaching nearer to the articular cartilage above than in the rest of its extent. It is thicker above and below than elsewhere, and is remarkably loose and lax, and much larger and longer than is necessary to keep the bones in contact, allowing them to be separated from each other more than an inch, an evident provision for that extreme freedom of move- ment which is peculiar to this articulation. Its external surface is strengthened, above, by the Supraspinatus ; below, by the long head of the Triceps ; externally, by the tendons of the Infraspinatus and Teres minor; and internally, by the tendon of the Subscapularis. The capsular ligament usually presents three ^ * The long tendon of origin of the Biceps muscle also acts as one of the ligaments of this joint. See the observations on p. 292, on the function of the muscles passing over more than one joint.