AETEEIES 570 The cavity of the axilla is filled by a quantity of loose areolar tissue, and a large number of small arteries and veins, all of which are, however, of inconsiderable size, and numerous lymphatic glands : these are from ten to twelve in number, and situated chiefly on the thoracic side, and lower and back part of this space. Surgical Anatomy.—The axilla is a space of considerable surgical importance. It transmits the large vessels and nerves to the upper extremit}^ and these may be the seat of injury or disease : it contains numerous lymphatic glands which may require removal when diseased; in it is a quantity of loose connective and adipose tissue which may be readil}" infiltrated with blood or inflammatory exudation, and it may be the seat of rapidly growing tiunours. Moreover, it is covered at its base by thin skin, largely supplied with sebaceous and sweat glands, which is frequently the seat of small cutaneous abscesses and boils, and of eruptions due to irritation. In suj^pm^ation in the axilla, the arrangement of the fasciae plays a very important part in the direction which the pus takes. As described on page 446, the costo-coracoid membrane, after covering in the space between the clavicle and the upper border of the Pectoralis minor, splits to enclose this muscle, and, reblending at its lower border, becomes incorporated with the fascia covering the Pectoralis major muscle at the anterior fold of the axilla. This is known as the clavi-pectoral fascia. Suppuration may take place either superficial to or beneath this layer of fascia; that is, either between the pectorals or below the pectoralis minor: in the former case, it would point either at the anterior border of the axillary fold, or in the groove between the Deltoid and the Pectoralis major ; in the latter, the pus would have a tendency to surround the vessels and nerves, and ascend into the neck, that being the direction in which there is least resistance. Its progress towards the skin is prevented by the axillary fascia; its progress backwards, by the Serratus magnus ; forwards, by the clavi-pectoral fascia; inwards, by the wall of the thorax; and outwards, by the upper limb. The pus in these cases, after extending into the neck, has been known to spread through the superior opening of the thorax into the media- stinum. In opening an axillary abscess, the knife should be entered in the floor of the axilla, midwaj^ between the anterior and posterior margins and near the thoracic side of the space. It is well to use a director and dressing forceps, after an incision has been made through the skin and fascia in the manner directed by the late Mr. Hilton. The student should attentively consider the relation of the vessels and nerves in the several parts of the axilla ; for it not unfrequently happens that the surgeon is called upon to extirpate diseased glands, or to remove a tumour from this situation. In performing such an operation, it wiU be necessary to proceed with much caution in the direction of. the outer wall and apex of the space, as here the axillary vessels will be in danger ot being wounded. Towards the posterior wall, it will be necessary to avoid the subscapular, dorsalis scapulae, and posterior circumflex vessels. Along the anterior wall, it will be necessary to avoid the thoracic branches. It is only along the inner or thoracic wall, and in the centre of the axillary cavity, that there are no vessels of any importance ; a for- tunate circumstance, for it is in this situation more especially that tumours requiring removal are usually situated. The Axillary Artery The Axillary Artery, the continuation of the subclavian, commences at the lower border of the first rib, and terminates at the lower border of the tendon of the Teres major muscle, where it takes the name of brachial. Its direction varies with the position of the limb : when the arm lies by the side of the chest, the vessel forms a gentle curve, the convexity being upwards and outwards ; when it is directed at right angles with the trunk, the vessel is nearly straight; and when it is elevated still higher, the artery describes a curve, the concavity of which is directed upwards. At its commencement the artery is very deeply situated, but near its termination is superficial, being covered only by the skin and fascia. The description of the relations of this vessel is facilitated by its division into three portions : the first portion being that above the Pectoralis minor; the second portion, behind; and the third below, that muscle. The first portion of the axillary artery is in relation, m fro7it, with the clavi- cular portion of the Pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid membrane, the external anterior thoracic nerve, and the acromio-thoracic and cephalic veins ; beJmid, with the first intercostal space, the corresponding Intercostal muscle, the second and third serrations of the Serratus magnus, and the posterior thoracic nerve; on its otiter side, with the brachial plexus, from which it is separated by a little cellular interval; on its iimer, or thoracic side, with the axillary vein.