MUSCLES AND FASCI/E 474 Relations.—By its stqjerficial surface, with the inner x^ortion of the pahnar fascia, and the Pahnaris brevis. By its deep surface, with the Flexor ossis meta- carpi minimi digiti. By its outer border, with the Flexor brevis minimi digiti. The Flexor brevis minimi dig^iti lies on the same plane as the preceding muscle, on its radial side. It arises from the tip of the unciform process of the unciform bone, and anterior surface of the annular ligament, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. It is separated from the Abductor at its origin, by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. This muscle is sometimes wanting; the Abductor is then, usually, of large size. Relations.—By its siqjerficicd surface, with the internal portion of the palmar fascia, and the Palmaris brevis. By its deep surface, with the Opponens. The Opponens minimi digiti (fig. 307) is of a triangular form, and placed immediately beneath the preceding muscles. It arises from the unciform process of the unciform bone, and contiguous portion of the annular ligament ; its fibres pass downwards and inwards, to be inserted into the whole length of the meta- carpal bone of the little finger, along its ulnar margin. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Flexor brevis, -and Abductor minimi digiti. By its deep surface, with the Interossei muscles in the fourth metacarpal space, the metacarpal bone, and the Flexor tendons of the little finger. Nerves.—All the muscles of this group are supplied by the ulnar nerve. Actions.—The Abductor minimi digiti abducts the little finger from the middle line of the hand. It corresponds to a dorsal interosseous muscle. It also assists in flexing the proximal phalanx. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti abducts the little finger from the middle line of the hand. It also assists in flexing the proximal phalanx. The Opponens minimi digiti draws forwards the fifth metacarpal bone, so as to deepen the hollow of the palm. The Palmaris brevis corrugates the skin on the inner side of the palm of the hand. Middle Palmar Eegion Lumbricales. Interossei palmares. Interossei dorsales. The Lumbricales (fig. 316) are four small fleshy fasciculi, accessories to the deep Flexor muscle. They arise by fleshy fibres from the tendons of the deep Flexor : the first and second, from the radial side and palmar surface of the tendons of the index and middle fingers ; the third, from the contiguous sides of the ten- dons of the middle and ring fingers ; and the fourth, from the contiguous sides of the tendons of the ring and little fingers. They pass to the radial side of the corresponding fingers, and opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation each tendon terminates in a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the tendinous expansion from the Extensor communis digitorum, covering the dorsal aspect of each finger. The Interossei muscles are so named from occupying the intervals between the metacarpal bones. They are divided into two sets, a dorsal and palmar : the former are four in number, one in each metacarpal space; the latter, three in number, lie upon the metacarpal bones. The Dorsal interossei are four in number, larger than the palmar, and occupy the intervals between the metacarpal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metacarpal bones, but more extensively from that side of the metacarpal bone which corresponds to the side of the finger in which the muscle is inserted. They are inserted into the bases of the first phalanges and into the aponeurosis of the common extensor tendon. Between the double origin of each of these muscles is a narrow triangular interval, through the first of which passes the radial artery; through the other three passes a perforating branch from the deep palmar arch. The First dorsal interosseous muscle, or Abductor indicis, is larger than the others. It is flat, triangular in form, and arises by two heads, separated by a