828 ORGAXS OF SENSE on the Hvo-glossns muscle iu the submaxillary region, and from thence to the deep glands of the neck. The nerves of the tongue are four in number in each half : the lingual branch of the fifth, which is distributed to the papillae at the fore part and sides of the tongue; the lingual branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, which is distributed to the mucous membrane at the base and side of the tongue, and to the papillae circum- vallat^e ; the hypoglossal nerve, which is distributed to the muscular substance of the tongue ; and the chorda tympani to the Lmgualis muscle. Sympathetic filaments also pass to the tongue from the nervi molles on the lingual and other arteries supplying it. The glosso-pharyngeal branch is the special nerve of the sense of taste; the lingual (gustatory) is the nerve of common sensation ; and the hypoglossal is the motor nerve of the tongue, except for the Inferior lingualis which is supplied by the chorda tpnpani. Surgical Anatomy.—The diseases to which the tongue is hable are numerous, aud its sm^gieal anatomy of importance, since any or all the structiu'es of which it is composed— muscles, connective tissue, mucous membrane, glands, vessels, nerves, and h-mphatics—may be the seat of morbid changes. It is not often the seat of congenital defects, though a few cases of vertical cleft have been recorded, and it is occasionally, though much more rarely than is commonly supposed, the seat of ' tongue tie,' h'om shortness of the h'iemun (see page 534). There is, however, one condition, which must be regarded as congenital, though it does not sometimes evidence itseK imtil a year or two after birth, which is not imcommon. This is an enlargement of the tongue which is due primarily to a dilatation of the lymph- channels and a gi'eatly increased development of the lymphatic tissue tln'oughout the tongue. This is often aggravated by inflammatory changes induced by injmwor exposm^e. and the tons^ie may assmne enormous dimensions and hang out of the mouth, givmg the child an unbecile exj)ression. The treatment consists in excisinof a Y-shaped portion and bringing the cut surfaces together with deeply placed silver sutm-es. Compression has been resorted to in some cases and with success, but it is dithcult to apply. Acute uitiamma- tion of the tongue, which may be caused by iujmw and the introduction of some septic or hritating matter, is attended by great swelluig fi-om infiltration of its connective tissue, which is in considerable quantity. This renders the patient incapable of swaUo-uing or speaking, and may seriously impede resphation. It may run on to suppm-ation. and the formation of an acute abscess. Chi^onic abscess, which has been mistaken for cancer, may also occm' in the substance of the tongue. The mucous membrane of the tongue may become chi'onically inflamed, and presents different appearances in different stages of the disease, to which the terms leucoplakia, psoriasis, and ichthyosis have been given. The tongue, being very vascular, is often the seat of n-aevoid growths, and these have a tendency to grow rapidly. The tongue is fi-equently the seat of ulceration, which may arise fi'om many causes, as fi'om the mitation of jagged teeih, dyspepsia, tubercle, syphilis, and cancer. Of these the cancerous ulcer is the most important and probably also the most common. The varietj* is the squamous epithelioma, which soon develops into an ulcer with an indurated base. It produces great pain, which speedily extends to ah jDarts supplied with sensation by the fifth nerve, especially to the region of the ear. The pain in these cases is conducted to the ear and temporal region by the lingual nerve, and fiom it to the other branches of the inferior maxillary nerve, especially the am'iculo-temporal. Possibly pain in the ear itself may be due to implication of the fibres of the glosso-j)haryno:eal nerve, which by its tympanic branch is conducted to the tympanic plexus. Cancer of the tongue may necessitate removal of a part or the whole of the organ, and many different methods have been adoj)ted for its excision. It may be removed fi'om the mouth b}- the ecrasem- or the scissors. Probably the better method is by the scissors, usually kno^-n as "Whitehead's method. The mouth is widely opened with a gag; the tongue transfixed with a stout sillv ligature, by which to hold and make traction on it, and the reflexion of mucous membrane fi'om the tongue to the jaw, and the insertion of the Genio-hyo-glossus first divided with a pah of curved, blimt scissors. The Palato-glossus is also divided. The tongue can now be pulled well out of the mouth. The base of the tongue is cut through by a series of short snips, each bleeding vessel being dealt with as soon as divided, imtil the situation of the ranine artery is reached. The remaining undivided portion of tissue is to be seized with a pair of Wells' forceps; the tongue removed, and the vessel secm^ed. In the event of the ranine arteiw being accidentally mjmed, haemorrhage can be at once controlled, by passing two fingers over the dorsum of the tongue as far as the epiglottis, and dragghig the root of the tongue forcibly forwards. In cases where the disease is confined to one side of the tongue, this operation may be modified by splitting the tongue down the centre and removing only the affected half. In cases where the submaxihaiw glands are involved, Kocher's operation should be performed.