THE PERITONEUM Above the transverse colon (fig. 525) the peritoneum can be traced, forming omentum ; behind, by the ascending part of the great omentum; the transverse colon, transverse meso-colon, and its ascending layer ; above, by the liver ; and beloiv, by the folding of the great omentum. This space communicates with the general peritoneal cavity through the foramen of Winslow, which is situated behind the right, or free border of the lesser omentum. In order to trace the two layers together, we commence at the top of the abdominal cavity ; that is to say, the under surface of the Diaphragm. This muscle is covered throughout the greater part of its extent by peritoneum; one layer extending from its anterior border, backwards ; the other from its posterior border, forwards. Where the two layers meet they are reflected downwards to the liver, forming the coronary and lateral ligaments of this organ. When these two layers reach the liver, they again separate to enclose this viscus, the one passing in front and the other behind, and they meet again on its under surface at the transverse fissure. From this fissure they turn downwards to the lesser curvature of the stomach, forming the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum, and enclosing the hepatic artery, the portal vein, and the hepatic duct, which are contained between the two folds in this situation. From the lesser curvature of the stomach, the two layers pass over the anterior and posterior surfaces of the viscus, enclosing it and meeting again at the greater curvature. From this point they pass down in front of the small intestines, between this tube and the abdominal wall, and are reflected on themselves, passing upwards to the transverse colon, and forming the apron or great omentum. This reflection, therefore, consists of four layers of peritoneum. When the two posterior layers of the great omentum, in their reflection upwards, reach the transverse colon, they separate to enclose this portion of the intestinal tube, the one layer passing above it and the other below. They meet on its posterior surface, and pass backwards to the vertebral column, forming what is called the transverse meso-colon. At this point the two layers separate. The one which formed the upper surface of the transverse meso-colon, and which belongs to the lesser cavity, passes upwards in front of the pancreas and crura of the Diaphragm to the back part of the under surface of the Diaphragm, the point from which the description of this layer was commenced. The other, which formed the inferior layer of the transverse meso-colon, turns downwards in front of the duodenum, aorta, and inferior vena cava, and can be traced, as a single layer, in the manner above described, investing the small intestines and forming the mesentery ; then passing over the sacro-vertebral angle into the pelvis, the viscera of which it partially invests, and finally over the posterior surface of the front wall of the abdomen to the under surface of the Diaphragm, the point from which the description of this layer was commenced. In addition to tracing the peritoneum vertically, as has now been done, it is necessary to trace it horizontally. If this is done below the transverse colon, the circle is extremely simple, as it includes only the greater bag of the peritoneum (fig. 523). Above the level of the transverse colon the arrangement is more complicated, on account of the existence of two sacs. Starting from the linea alba, below the level of the transverse colon, and tracing the continuity in a horizontal direction to the right, we find the peritoneum covering the internal surface of the abdominal wall almost as far as the anterior border of the Quadratus lumborum muscle ; it encloses the csecum, forming the meso-caecum, and is reflected over the sides and anterior surface of the ascending colon, fixing it to the abdominal wall, thus forming the meso-cgecum and the ascending meso-colon, from which it can be traced over the kidney to the front of the bodies of the vertebrae. It then passes along the mesenteric vessels to invest the small intestines, and back again to the spine, forming the mesentery, between the layers of which are contained the blood-vessels, nerves, lacteals, and glands. Lastly, it passes over the left kidney to the sides and anterior surface of the descending colon, and, reaching the abdominal wall, it passes along it to the middle line of the abdomen.