279 EXTERNAL CUNEIFORM external surface, marked by its vertical and horizontal articub^r facets, will point to the side to which it belongs. Articulations.—With four bones : navicular, middle cuneiform, first and second metatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles.—To three: the Tibialis anticus and posticus, and Peroneus longus. The Middle Cuneifoem The Middle Cuneiform, the smallest of the three, is of very regular wedge-like form, the broad extremity being placed upwards, the narrow end downwards. It is situated between the other two bones of the same name, and articulates with the navicular behind, and the second metatarsal in front. It may be distinguished from the external cuneiform bone, which it much resembles in general appearance, by the articular facet, of angular form, which runs round the upper and back part of its inner surface; and if the two bones from the same foot are together, the middle cuneiform is much the smaller. The anterior surface, triangular in form, and narrower than the posterior, articulates with the base of the second metatarsal bone. The posterior surface, also triangular, articulates with the navicular. The internal surface presents a reversed L-shaped articular facet, running along the superior and posterior borders, for articulation with the internal cuneiform, and is rough in the rest of its extent for the attachment of ligaments. The external surface presents posteriorly a smooth facet for articulation with the external cuneiform bone. The superior surface forms the base of the wedge ; it is quadrilateral, broader behind than in front, and rough for the attachment of ligaments. The inferior surface, pointed and tubercular, is also rough for ligamentous attachment, and for the insertion of a slip from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. To ascertain to which foot the bone belongs, hold its superior or dorsal surface upwards, the broadest edge being towards the holder: the smooth facet (limited to the posterior border) will then point to the side to which it belongs. Articulations.—With four bones : navicular, internal and external cuneiform, and second metatarsal bone. Attachment of Muscle.—A slip from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus is attached to this bone. The External Cuneiform The External Cuneiform, intermediate in size between the two preceding, is of a very regular wedge-like form, the broad extremity being placed upwards, the narrow end downwards. It occupies the centre of the front row of the tarsus between the middle cuneiform internally, the cuboid externally, the navicular behind, and the third metatarsal in front. It is distinguished from the internal cuneiform bone by its more regular wedge-like shape, and by the absence of the kidney-shaped articular surface : from the middle cuneiform, by the absence of the reversed L-shaped facet, and by the two articular facets which are present on both its inner and outer surfaces. It has six surfaces for examination. The anterior surface, triangular in form, articulates with the third metatarsal bone. The posterior surface articulates with the most external facet of the navicular, and is rough below for the attachment of ligamentous fibres. The internal surface presents two articular facets, separated by a rough depression ; the anterior one, sometimes divided into two, articulates with the outer side of the base of the second metatarsal bone ; the posterior one skirts the posterior border, and articulates with the middle cuneiform ; the rough depression between the two gives attachment to an interosseous ligament. The external surface also presents two articular facets, separated by a rough non-articular surface ; the anterior facet, situated at the superior angle of the bone, is small, and articulates with the inner side of the base of the fourth metatarsal; the posterior and larger one articulates