THE THYMUS GLAND 991 of the vesicle. These lymph-spaces empty themselves into lymphatic vessels, which run in the interlobular connective tissue, not uncommonly surrounding the arteries which they accompany, and communicate with a network in the capsule of the gland. Baber has found in the lymphatics of the thyroid a viscid material which is morphologically identical with the normal constituent of the vesicle. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the thyroid are the superior and inferior thyroid, and sometimes an additional branch (thyroidea media, or ima) from the innominate artery, or the arch of the aorta, which ascends upon the front of the trachea. The arteries are remarkable for their large size and frequent anastomoses. The veins form a plexus on the surface of the gland, and on the front of the trachea, from which arise the superior, middle, and inferior thyroid veins; the two former terminating in the internal jugular, the latter in the inno- minate vein. The lymi^hatics are numerous, of large size, and terminate in the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. The nerves are derived from the middle and inferior cervical gangha of the sympathetic. Surgical Anatomy.—The thyroid gland is subject to enlargement, which is called goitre. This may be due to hypertrophy of any of the constituents of the gland. The simplest (parenchymatous goitre) is due to an enlargement of the follicles. The fibroid is due to increase of the interstitial connective tissue. The cystic is that form in which one or more large cysts are formed from dilatation and possibly coalescence of adjacent folhcles. The imlsating goitre is where the vascular changes predominate over the parenchymatous, and the vessels of the gland are especially enlarged. Finally, there is exojjJithalmic goitre (Graves's disease), where there is great vascularity and often pulsa- tion accompanied by exophthalmos, paljjitation, and rapid pulse. For the relief of these growths various operations have been resorted to : such as injection of tincture of iodine or perchloride of iron, especially applicable to the cystic form of the disease ; ligature of the thyroid arteries ; excision of the isthmus ; and extirpation of the whole or a part of the gland. This latter operation is one of ditiiculty, and when the entire gland has been removed the operation has been followed by a condition resembling myxoedema. In removing the organ great care must be taken to avoid tearing the capsule, as if this happens the gland-tissue bleeds profusel}'. The thyroid arteries should be ligatured before an attempt is made to remove the mass, and in ligatiu-ing the inferior thyroids the position of the recurrent laryngeal nerve must be borne in mind, so as not to include it in the ligature. The Thymus Gland The thymus gland presents much resemblance in structure to other glandular organs, and is another of the organs which used formerly to be denommated ductless glands. The thymus gland is a temporary organ, attaining its full size at the end of the second year, when it ceases to grow, and gradually dwindles, until at puberty it has almost disappeared. If examined when its growth is most active, it will be found to consist of two lateral lobes placed in close contact along the middle line, situated partly in the superior mediastinum, partly in the neck, and extending from the fourth costal cartilage upwards, as high as the lower border of the thyroid gland. It is covered by the sternum, and by the origins of the Sterno- hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. Below, it rests upon the pericardium, being separated from the arch of the aorta and great vessels by a layer of fascia. In the neck it lies on the front and sides of the trachea, behind the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. The two lobes generally differ in size ; they are occasionally united, so as to form a single mass ; and sometimes separated by an intermediate lobe. The thymus is of a pinkish-grey colour, soft, and lobulated on its surfaces. It is about two inches in length, one and a half in breadth below, and about three or four lines in thickness. At birth it weighs about half an ounce. Structure.—Each lateral lobe is composed of numerous lobules, held together by dehcate areolar tissue; the entire gland being enclosed in an investing capsule of a similar but denser structure. The primary lobules vary in size from a pin's