GENERAL ANATOMY 88 Fig. 92.—Face of an embryo of 25 to 28 days. Magnified 15 times. the fronto-nasal process, and at their origin are closely connected with the first post- oral or \dsceral arch. They descend for a short distance, forming the outer wall of the orbit, in which the malar bone is developed; they then incline inwards, and, meeting the lateral plate of the fronto-nasal process, form the floor of the orbit, and shut it off from the rest of the face ; then, continuing their course downwards and inwards, they join the mid-frontal process, and with it complete the alveolar arch and the superior maxillary bone. Finally, palatal processes are formed by an extension of the inner sides of this arch ; these coalesce with each other in the median line, thus separating the cavity of the mouth from the nasal fossae, and completing the palate. In front, however, the palatal processes do not join with the mid-frontal process, but a cleft is left which constitutes the naso-pala- tine canal. The 2^ost-oral arches are five in num- ber in the amniota, and of these the first only is concerned in the formation of the face proper, for the lower jaw or mandible is developed from it, and hence it is called the mandibular arch. The second is named the hyoid arch : from it is formed the styloid process, the stylo-hyoid liga- ment, and the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. The third, or thyro-hyoid arch, gives origin to the great cornu of the hyoid bone, while the body of this bone is formed between the second and third arches. This third arch, together with the fourth and fifth, correspond to the arches which, in fishes and amphibia, form the gill-plates, but which, in the amniota, never do so. They are appropriately named branchial, a name which was primarily given to the whole series by Rathke, who first described them. The deeper part of the first or mandibular arch contains a transitory cartila- ginous rod, which has long been known as the ' cartilage of Meckel,' the proximal end of which is at first attached to the basis cranii, and afterwards to the periotic capsule. It is, during some part of foetal life, directly continuous with the malleus, which by some is believed to be developed from it. The median end of the lower jaw-bone is developed from this cartilage ; the greater part of the rest of the bone being developed from membrane. Between the mandibular arch and the pre-oral arch the buccal cavity or mouth is formed; this therefore owes its origin to the formation of the pre-oral and post-oral arches, and consists of mesoblastic tissue lined by epiblast. As has been already stated (page 76) the cephalic end of the embryo becomes remarkably curved on itself, the fore- and mid-brain bending downwards over the anterior portion of the original blastodermic membrane which remains within the body of the embryo and from which the fore-gut is to be developed. This fore-gut terminates as a blind extremity beneath the head (fig. 91, a,/). Another prominence forms on the ventral surface of the fore-gut, which represents the rudimentary heart (fig. 91, A, h)» Between these two prominences, caused by the projection of the fore-brain and the heart, an involution of the epiblast takes place, gradually deepening until it comes in contact with the upper part of the alimentary canal. This is the stomodcBum, or mouth, which becomes bounded by prominences, constituting the pre-oral and mandibular arches. It is at first quite distinct from the upper part Froutal prominence. 2, 3. Right and left olfactory fossffi. 4. Inferior maxiUary tubercles, united in the middle line. 5. Superior maxillary tubercles. 6. Mouth or fauces. 7. Second pharyngeal arch. 8. Third. 9. Fourth. 10. Primitive ocular vesicle. II. Primitive auditory vesicle.