ORGANS OF DIGESTION 892 seen and felt extending upwards and backwards from the position of the fang of the last molar tooth to the posterior part of the hard palate. This is caused by the Pterygo- maxillary ligament which is attached by one extremity to the apex of the internal pterygoid plate, and by the other to the posterior extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw. It connects the Buccinator with the Superior constrictor of the pharynx. The fang of the last molar tooth indicates the position of the lingual (gustatory) nerve, where it is easily accessible, and can with readiness be divided in cases of cancer of the tongue (see page 753). On the inner side of the last molar tooth we can feel the haniular process of the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone, around which the tendon of the Tensor palati plays. The exact position of this process is of importance in performing the operation of staphy- loraphy. About one-third of an inch in front of the hamular process and the same distance directly inwards from the last molar tooth is the situation of the opening of the posterior palatine canal, through which emerges the posterior or descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery, and one of the descending palatine nerves from Meckel's ganglion. The exact position of the opening on the subject may be ascertained by driving a needle through the tissues of the palate in this situation, when it will be at once felt to enter the canal. The artery emerging from the opening runs forwards in a groove in the bone, just internal to the alveolar border of the hard palate, and may be wounded in the operation for the cure of cleft palate. Under these circumstances the palatine canal may require plugging. By introducing the finger into the mouth the anterior border of the coronoid process of the jaw can be felt, and is especially prominent when the jaw is dislocated. By throwing the head well back a considerable portion of the posterior wall of the pharynx may be seen through the isthmus faucium, and on introducing the finger the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the upper cervical vertebras may be felt immediately beneath the thin muscular stratum forming the wall of the pharynx. The finger can be hooked round the posterior border of the soft palate, and by turning it forwards, the posterior nares, separated by the septum, can be felt, or the presence of any adenoid or other growths in the naso-pharynx ascertained. The Phabynx The pharynx is that part of the alimentary canal which is placed behind the nose, mouth, and larynx. It is a musculo-membranous sac, somewhat conical in form, with the base upwards, and the apex downwards, extending from the under sm^face of the skull to the cricoid cartilage in front, and the intervertebral disc between the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae behind. The pharynx is about four inches and a half in length, and broader in the transverse than in the antero-posterior diameter. Its greatest breadth is opposite the cornua of the hyoid bone ; its narrow^est point at its termination in the oesophagus. It is limited, above, by the body of the sphenoid and basilar process of the occipital bone ; beloio, it is continuous with the oesophagus ; posteriorly, it is connected by loose areolar tissue with the cervical portion of the vertebral column, and the Longi colli and Recti capitis antici muscles; anteriorly, it is incomplete, and is attached in succession to the internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo-maxillary ligament, the lower jaw, the tongue, hyoid bone, and thyroid and cricoid cartilages ; laterally, it is connected to the styloid processes and their muscles, and is in contact with the common and internal carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, and the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves, and above with a small part of the Internal pterygoid muscles. It has seven openings communicating with it: the two posterior nares, the two Eustachian tubes, the mouth, larynx, and oesophagus. The posterior nares are the two oval openings (see page 193) situated at the upper part of the anterior wall of the pharynx. The tiuo Eustachian tubes open one at each side of the upper part of the pharynx, at the back part of the inferior meatus. Below the posterior nares are the posterior surface of the soft palate and uvula, the large aperture of the mouth, the base of the tongue, the epiglottis, and the cordiform opening of the larynx. The (esophageal opening is the lower contracted portion of the pharynx. Structure.—The pharynx is composed of three coats : mucous, fibrous, and muscular. The pharyngeal aponeurosis, or fibrous coat, is situated between the mucous and muscular layers. It is thick above where the muscular fibres are wanting, and is firmly connected to the basilar process of the occipital and petrous portion of the