THE SKELETON 190 The floor is nearly flat, and of less extent than the roof; it is formed chiefly by the orbital process of the superior maxillary ; in front, to a small extent, by the orbital process of the malar, and behind, by the superior surface of the orbital process of the palate. This surface presents at its anterior and internal part, just external to the lachrymal groove, a depression for the attachment of the Inferior oblique muscle; externally, the suture between the malar and superior maxillary bones ; near its middle, the infra-orbital groove ; and posteriorly, the suture between the maxillary and palate bones. The inner wall is flattened, and formed from before backwards by the nasal process of the superior maxillary, the lachrymal, os planum of the ethmoid, and a small part of the body of the sphenoid. This surface presents the lachrymal groove, and crest of the lachrymal bone, and the sutures connecting the lachrymal with the superior maxillary, the ethmoid with the lachrymal in front, and the ethmoid with the sphenoid behind. The outer wall is formed in front by the orbital process of the malar bone ; behind, by the orbital surface of the sphenoid. On it are seen the orifices of one or two malar canals, and the suture connecting the sphenoid and malar bones. Angles.—The suj^erior external angle is formed by the junction of the upper and outer walls ; it presents, from before backwards, the suture connecting the frontal with the malar in front, and with the great wing of the sphenoid behind ; quite posteriorly is the foramen lacerum anterius, or sphenoidal fissure, which transmits the third, the fourth, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, the sixth nerve, some filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, the orbital branch of the middle meningeal artery, a recurrent branch from the lachrymal artery to the dura mater, and the ophthalmic vein. The superior internal angle is formed by the junction of the upper and inner wall, and presents the suture connecting the frontal bone with the lachrymal in front, and wdth the ethmoid behind. The point of junction of these three sutures has been named the dacryon. This angle presents two foramina, the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, the former transmitting the anterior ethmoidal vessels and nasal nerve, the latter the posterior ethmoidal vessels. The inferior external angle, formed by the junction of the outer wall and floor, presents the spheno-maxillary fissure, which transmits the superior maxillary nerve and its orbital branches, the infra-orbital vessels, and the ascending branches from the spheno-palatine or Meckel's ganglion. The inferior internal angle is formed by the union of the lachrymal and os planum of the ethmoid, with the superior maxillary and palate bones. The circumference, or base, of the orbit, quadrilateral in form, is bounded above by the supra-orbital ridge ; below, by the anterior border of the orbital plate of the malar, superior maxillary, and lachrymal bones ; externally, by the external angular process of the frontal and the malar bones ; internally, by the internal angular process of the frontal, and the nasal process of the superior maxillary. The circumference is marked by three sutures, the fronto-maxillary internally, the fronto-malar externally, and the malo-maxillary below; it contributes to the formation of the lachrymal groove, and presents, above, the supra-orbital notch (or foramen), for the passage of the supra-orbital vessels and nerve. The apex, situated at the back of the orbit, corresponds to the optic foramen, a short, circular canal, which transmits the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. It will thus be seen that there are nine openings communicating with each orbit—viz. the optic foramen, foramen lacerum anterius, spheno-maxillary fissure, supra-orbital foramen, infra-orbital canal, anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina, malar foramina, and canal for the nasal duct. The Nasal Foss^ The Nasal Fossae are two large, irregular cavities, situated on either side of the middle line of the face, extending from the base of the cranium to the roof of the mouth, and separated from each other by a thin vertical septum. They communicate by two large apertures, the anterior nares, with the front of the face ; and by the