ARTERIES 526 Plan of the Relations of the Innominate Arteey In f ront. Sternnm. Sterno-liyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. Remains of thymus gland. Left innominate and right inferior thyroid veins. Inferior cervical cardiac branch from right pnemnogastric nerve. Right side. Eight innominate vein. Right pnenmogastric nerve Pleura. Peculiarities in point of Division.—When the bifurcation of the innominate artery varies from the point above mentioned, it sometimes ascends a considerable distance above the sternal end of the clavicle ; less frequently it divides below it. In the former class of cases, its length may exceed two inches ; and, in the latter, be reduced to an inch or less. These are points of considerable interest for the surgeon to remember in connection with the operation of tying this vessel. Position.—^Yieii the aorta arches over to the right side, the innominate is directed to the left side of the neck instead of the right. Collateral Circulation.—Allan Burns demonstrated, on the dead subject, the possibility of the establishment of the collateral circulation after ligature of the innominate artery, by tying and dividing that artery, after which, he saj'S, ' Even coarse injection, impelled into the aorta, passing freely by the anastomosing branches into the arteries of the right arm, filling them and all the vessels of the head completely.' {Surgical Anatomy of the Head a7id Neck., p. 62.) The branches by which this circulation would be carried on are very numerous; thus, all the communications across the middle line between the branches of the carotid arteries of opposite sides would be available for the supply of blood to the right side of the head and neck; while the anastomosis between the superior intercostal of the subclavian and the first aortic intercostal (see infra on the collateral circula- tion after obliteration of the thoracic aorta) would bring the blood, by a free and direct course, into the right subclavian : the numerous connections, also, between the intercostal arteries and the branches of the axillary and internal mammary arteries would, doubtless, assist in the supply of blood to the right arm, while the epigastric, from the external iliac, would, by means of its anastomosis with the internal mammary, compensate for any deficiency in the vascularity of the wall of the chest. Surgical Anatomy.—Although the operation of tying the innominate artery has been performed by several surgeons, for aneurism of the right subclavian extending inwards as far as the Scalenus, in only two instances has the patient survived.* Mott's patient, how- ever, on whom the operation was first performed, lived nearly four weeks, and Graefe's more than two months. The main obstacles to the operation are, as the student will perceive from his dissection of this vessel, the deep situation of the artery behind and beneath the sternum, and the number of important structures which surround it in every part. In order to apply a ligature to this vessel, the patient is to be placed upon his back, with the thorax slightly raised, the head bent a little backwards, and the shoulder on the side of the aneurism strongly depressed, so as to draw out the artery from behind the sternum into the neck. An incision three or more inches long is then made along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, terminating at the sternal end of the clavicle. From this point, a second incision is carried about the same length along the upper border of the clavicle. The skin is then dissected back, and the Platysma divided on a director : the sternal end of the Sterno-mastoid is now brought into view, and a director being passed beneath it, and close to its under surface, so as to avoid any small vessels, it is to be divided; in like manner the clavicular origin is to be divided throughout the whole or greater part of its attachment. By pressing aside any loose cellular tissue or vessels that may now appear, the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles will be exposed, and must be divided, a director being previously passed beneath them. The inferior thyroid veins may come into view, and must be carefully drawn either upwards or downwards, by means of a blunt hook, or tied with double ligatures and divided. After tearing through a * In one of these the operation was performed by Dr. Smyth of New Orleans. See the New Sydenham Society's Biennial Betrospect for 1865-6, p. 346. In the other, the operation was performed by Dr. Mitchell Banks, in the Liverpool Infirmary. The case is recorded by Mr. Jacobson in Op)erations of Surgery, p. 536. Innominate Artery. Left side. Remains of thymus. Left carotid. Left inferior thyroid vein. Trachea. Behind. Trachea.