THE LUNGS 985 The lueight of both kings together is about forty-two ounces, the right lung being two ounces heavier than the left; but much variation is met with according to the amount of blood or serous fluid they may contain. The lungs are heavier in the male than in the female, their proportion to the body being, in the former, as I to 37, in the latter as i to 43. The specific gravity of the lung-tissue varies from 0-345 to o'746, water being 1,000. The colour of the lungs at birth is a pinkish-white ; in adult life, a dark slate- colour, mottled in patches ; and as age advances, this mottling assumes a black colour. The colouring matter consists of granules of a carbonaceous substance deposited in the areolar tissue near the surface of the organ. It increases in quantity as age advances, and is more abundant in males than in females. The posterior border of the lung is usually darker than the anterior. The surface of the lung is smooth, shining, and marked out into numerous polyhedral spaces, indicating the lobules of the organ: the area of each of these spaces is crossed by numerous lighter lines. The substance of the lung is of a light, porous, spongy texture ; it floats in water, and crepitates when handled, owing to the presence of air in the tissue; it is also highly elastic ; hence the collapsed state of these organs when they are removed from the closed cavity of the thorax. Structure.—The lungs are composed of an external serous coat, a subserous areolar tissue, and the pulmonary substance or parenchyma. The serous coat is derived from the pleura ; it is thin, transparent, and invests the entire organ as far as the root. The subserous areolar tissue contains a large proportion of elastic fibres; it invests the entire surface of the lung, and extends inwards between the lobules. The ijarenchyma is composed of lobules, which, although closely connected together by an interlobular areolar tissue, are quite distinct from one another, and may be teased asunder without much difficulty in the foetus. The lobules vary in size: those on the surface are large, of pyramidal form, the base turned towards the surface ; those in the interior smaller, and of various forms. Each lobule is composed of one of the ramifications of a bronchial tube and its ter- minal air-cells, and of the ramifications of the pulmonary and bronchial vessels, lymphatics and nerves ; all of these structures being connected together by areolar tissue. The bronchus, upon entering the substance of the lung, divides and subdivides dichotomously throughout the entire organ. Sometimes three branches arise together, and occasionally small lateral branches are given off from the sides of a main trunk. Each of the smaller subdivisions of the bronchi enters a pulmonary lobule, and is termed a lobular bronchial tube. Its wall now begins to present irregular dilatations, at first sparingly and on one side of the tube only, but as it proceeds onwards these dilatations become more numerous and surround the tube on all sides, so that it loses its cylindrical character, and, becoming enlarged, terminates in a sacculated alveolar passage, beset in all directions, both laterally and terminally, by c^cal pouches or air-cells. The enlarged terminations, that is, the alveolar passages from which the caecal pouches or air-cells spring, are termed infundibula. Within the lungs the bronchial tubes are circular, not flattened, and present certain peculiarities of structure. Changes in the structure of the bronchi in the lungs—i. In the lobes of the lujigs.—In the lobes of the lungs the following changes take place. The cartilages are not imperfect rings, but consist of thin laminae, of varied form and size, scattered irregularly along the sides of the tube, being most distinct at the points of division of the bronchi. They may be traced into tubes, the diameter of which is only one-fourth of a line. Beyond this point the tubes are wholly membranous. The fibrous coat and the longitudinal elastic fibres are continued into the smallest ramifications of the bronchi. The muscular coat is disposed in the form of a continuous layer of annular fibres, which may be traced upon the smallest bronchial tubes, and consists of the unstriped variety of muscular tissue. The