671 OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS being situated in the meso-rectal fold. These and the internal iliac glands are affected in malignant disease of the bladder, rectum, or uterus. The lumbar glands are very numerous ; they are situated on the front of the lumbar vertebra, surrounding the common iliac vessels, the aorta, and vena cava ; they receive the lymphatic vessels from the lower extremities and pelvis, as well as from the testes and some of the abdominal viscera ; the efferent vessels from these glands unite into a few large trunks, which, with the lacteals, form the commence- ment of the thoracic duct. In addition to these there are a few small lateral lumbar glands, which lie between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, behind the Psoas muscle, and receive lymphatics from the back. In some cases of malig- nant disease these glands become enormously enlarged, completely surrounding the aorta and vena cava, and occasionally greatly contracting the calibre of those vessels. In all cases of malignant disease of the testis, and in malignant disease of the lower limb, before any operation is attempted, careful examination of the abdomen should be made, in order to ascertain if any enlargement exists ; and if any should be detected, all operative measures should be avoided as fruitless. The Lymphatic Vessels of the Abdomen and Pelvis may be divided into two sets, superficial and deep. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the walls of the abdomen and pelvis follow the course of the superficial blood-vessels. Those derived from the integument of the lower part of the abdomen below the umbilicus follow the course of the superficial epigastric vessels and converge to the superior group of the superficial inguinal glands ; a deeper set accompany the deep epigastric vessels, and communicate with the external iliac glands. The superficial lymphatics from the sides of the lumbar part of the abdominal w^all wind round the crest of the ilium, accompanying the superficial circumflex iliac vessels, to join the superior group of the superficial inguinal glands ; the greater number, however, run backwards along with the ilio-lumbar and lumbar vessels, to join the lateral lumbar glands. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the gluteal region turn horizontally round the outer side of the nates, and join the superficial inguinal glands. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the scrotum and perinseum follow the course of the external pudic vessels, and terminate in the superficial inguinal glands. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the penis occupy the sides and dorsum of the organ, the latter receiving the lymphatics from the skin covering the glans penis ; they all converge to the upper chain of the superficial inguinal glands. The deep lympnatic vessels of the penis follow the course of the internal pudic vessels, and join the internal iliac glands. In the female, the lymphatic vessels of the mucous membrane of the labia, nymphae, and clitoris terminate in the upper chain of the inguinal glands. The deep lymphatic vessels of the abdomen and pelvis take the course of the principal blood-vessels. Those of the parietes of the pelvis, which accompany the gluteal, ischiatic, and obturator vessels, follow the coarse of the internal iliac artery, and ultimately join the lumbar lymphatics. The efferent vessels from the inguinal glands enter the pelvis beneath Poupart's ligament, where they lie in close relation wdth the femoral vein ; they then pass through the chain of glands surrounding the external iliac vessels, and finally terminate in the lumbar glands. They receive the deep epigastric and circumflex iliac lymphatics. The lymphatic vessels of the bladder arise from the entire surface of the organ ; * the greater number run beneath the peritoneum on its posterior surface, and, after passing through the lymphatic glands in that situation, join with the lymphatics from the prostate and vesiculse seminales, and enter the internal iliac glands. The lymphatic vessels of the rectum are of large size ; after passing through * Curnow states that they are confined to the base of the organ.