386 MUSCLES AND FASCIA The Sterno-mastoid, or Sterno-cleido-mastoid (fig. 276) is a large, thick muscle, which passes obliquely across the side of the neck, being enclosed between the two layers of the deep cervical fascia. It is thick and narrow at its central part, but is broader and thinner at each extremity. It arises, by two heads, from the sternum and clavicle. The stemal portion is a rounded fasciculus, tendinous in front, fleshy behind, which arises from the upper and anterior part of the first piece of the sternum, and is directed upwards, outwards, and backwards. The clavicular loor- tion arises from the inner third of the superior border of the clavicle, being composed of fleshy and aponeurotic fibres ; it is directed almost vertically upwards. These two portions are separated from one another, at their origin, by a triangular cellular interval; but become gradually blended, below the middle of the neck, Fig. 276.—Muscles of the neck, and boundaries of the triangles. into a thick, rounded muscle, which is inserted, by a strong tendon, into the outer surface of the mastoid process, from its apex to its superior border, and by a thin aponeurosis into the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The Sterno-mastoid varies much in its extent of attachment to the clavicle: in one case the clavicular may be as narrow as the sternal portion; in another, as much as three inches in breadth. When the clavicular origin is broad, it is occasionally subdivided into numerous slips, separated by narrow intervals. More rarely, the corresponding margins of the Sterno-mastoid and Trapezius have been found in contact. In the application of a ligature to the third part of the subclavian artery, it will be necessary, where the muscles come close together, to divide a portion of one or of both. This muscle divides the quadrilateral space at the side of the neck into two triangles, an anterior and a posterior. The boundaries of the anterior triangle are, in front, the median line of the neck; above, the lower border of the body of the jaw, and an imaginary line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid