443 OF THE UPPEE EXTREMITY by the urethra. Its posterior border is continuous, as in the male, with the deep layer of the superficial fascia around the Transversus perin£ei muscle. Structures between the two layers of the Triangular Ligament.—The subpubic ligament above, the dorsal vein of the clitoris, the membranous portion of the urethra and the Compressor urethrse muscle, the glands of Bartholin and their ducts ; the pudic vessels and the dorsal nerve of the clitoris ; the artery of the bulbi vestibuli, and a plexus of veins. The Compressor VLiethiSB {Constrictor wre^/ira) arises on each side from the margin of the descending ram^us of the os pubis. The fibres, passing inwards, divide into two sets : those of the fore part of the muscle are directed across the subpubic arch in front of the urethra to blend with the muscular fibres of the opposite side ; while those of the hinder and larger part pass inwards to blend with the wall of the vagina behind the urethra. MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The Muscles of the Upper Extremity are divisible into groups, corresponding with the different regions of the limb. Of the Shoulder Anterior Thoracic Begion Pectoralis major. Pectoralis minor. Subclavius. Lateral Thoracic Begion Serratus magnus. Acromial Begion Deltoid. Anterior Scaptda)' Begion Subscapularis. Posterior Scapular Begion Supraspinatus. Teres minor. Infraspinatus. Teres major. Of the Arm Anterior Humeral Begion Coraco-brachialis. Biceps. Brachialis anticus. Posterior Humeral Begion Triceps. Subanconeus. Of the Foeeaem Anterior Brachial Begion r-H ^ Pronator radii teres. Flexor carpi radialis. Palmaris longus. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Flexor profundus digitorum. CD o3 Badial Begion Supinator longus. Extensor carpi radialis longior. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Posterior Brachial Begion Extensor communis digitorum. Extensor minimi di.oiti. ^ ^ 1 Extensor carpi ulnaris V Anconeus. Supinator brevis. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Flexor longus pollicis. * Pronator quadratus. S ^-{Extensor brevis pollicis. I Extensor longus pollicis. ^'Extensor indicis. Of the Hand Badial Begion Abductor pollicis. Flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis (Opponens pollicis). Flexor brevis pollicis. Adductor pollicis. Ulnar Begion Palmaris brevis. Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti (Opponens minimi digiti). Pcdmar Begion Lumbricales. Interossei palmares. Interossei dorsales. Dissection of Pectoral Begion and Axilla (fig. 301).—The arm being drawn away from the side nearly at right angles with the trunk, and rotated outwards, make a vertical incision through the integument in the median line of the chest, from the upper to the