SUPRA-HYOID REGION 389 The Thyro-hyoid is a small, quadrilateral muscle appearing like a continuation of the Sterno-thyroid. It arises from the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, and passes vertically upwards to be inserted into the lower border of the body and greater cornu of the hyoid bone. Relations.—By its external surface, with the Sterno-hyoid and Omo-hyoid muscles. By its internal surface, with the thyroid cartilage, the thyro-hyoid membrane, and the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve. The Omo-hyoid passes across the side of the neck, from the scapula to the hyoid bone. It consists of two fleshy bellies, united by a central tendon. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, and occasionally from the transverse ligament which crosses the suprascapular notch ; its extent of attachment to the scapula varying from a few lines to an inch. From this origin, the posterior belly forms a flat, narrow fasciculus, which inclines forwards and slightly upwards across the lower part of the neck, behind the Sterno-mastoid muscle, where it becomes tendinous ; it then changes its direction, forming an obtuse angle, and terminates in the anterior belly, which passes almost vertically upwards, close to the outer border of the Sterno-hyoid, to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides, just external to the insertion of the Sterno-hyoid. The central tendon of this muscle, which varies much in length and form, is held in position by a process of the deep cervical fascia, which includes it in a sheath. This process is prolonged down, to be attached to the cartilage of the first rib and the sternum. It is by this means that the angular form of the muscle is main- tained. This muscle subdivides each of the two large triangles at the side of the neck into two smaller triangles; the two posterior ones being the posterior superior or occipital, and the posterior inferior or subclavian; the two anterior, the anterior superior or superior carotid, and the anterior inferior or inferior carotid triangle. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Trapezius, the Sterno-mastoid, deep cervical fascia, Platysma, and integument. By its deep surface, with the Scaleni muscles, phrenic nerve, lower cervical nerves, which go to form the brachial plexus, the suprascapular vessels and nerve, sheath of the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein, the Sterno-thyroid and Thyro-hyoid-muscles. Nerves.—^The Thyro-hyoid is supplied by the hypoglossal; the other muscles of this group by branches from the loop of communication between the descendens and communicans hypoglossi. Actions.—These muscles depress the larynx and hyoid bone, after they have been drawn up with the pharynx in the act of deglutition. The Omo-hyoid muscles not only depress the hyoid bone, but carry it backwards, and to one or the other side. It is concerned especially in the act of sucking ; and is also a tensor of the cervical fascia. The Thyro-hyoid may act as an elevator of the thyroid cartilage, when the hyoid bone ascends, drawing upwards the thyroid cartilage, behind the os hyoides.* The Sterno-thyroid acts as a depressor of the thyroid cartilage. 3. SuPKA-HYOiD Region (figs. 276, 277) Elevators of the Os Hyoides—Depeessoes of the Lowee Jaw Digastric. Mylo-hyoid. Stylo-hyoid. Genio-hyoid. Dissection.—To dissect these muscles, a block should be placed beneath the back of the neck, and the head drawn backwards, and retained in that position. On the removal of the deep fascia, the muscles are at once exposed. The Digastric consists of two fleshy bellies united by an intermediate, rounded tendon. It is a small muscle, situated below the side of the body of the lower * It is this action of the Thyro-hyoid muscle which, as Dr. Buchanan has pointed out, ' causes or permits the folding back of the epiglottis over the upper orifice of the larynx.' Journ. of Anat, and Phys. 2nd series, No. III. j)- 255.