BEACHIAL PLEXUS 779 Relations.—In the neck, the brachial plexus lies at first between the Anterior and Middle scaleni muscles, and then above and to the outer side of the subclavian artery: it then passes behind the clavicle and Subclavius muscle, lying upon the first serration of the Serratus magnus, and the Subscapularis muscles. In the axilla it is placed on the outer side of the first portion of the axillary artery; it surrounds the artery in the second part of its course, one cord lying upon the outer side of that vessel, one on the inner side, and one behind it; and at the lower part of the axillary space gives off its terminal branches to the upper extremity. Branches.—The branches of the brachial plexus are arranged into two gT(^ps, viz. those given off above the clavicle, and those below that bone. Bkanches above the Clavicle Communicating. Posterior thoracic. Muscular. Suprascapular. The communicating branch with the phrenic is derived from the fifth cervical nerve or from the loop between the fifth and sixth; it joins the phrenic on the Anterior scalenus muscle. The muscular branches supply the Longus colli, Scaleni, Ehomboidei, and Subclavius muscles. Those for the Longus colli and Scaleni arise froixi the lower cervical nerves at their exit from the intervertebral foramina. The rTiomboid branch arises from the fifth cervical, pierces the Scalenus medius, and passes beneath the Levator anguli scapulae, which it occasionally supplies, to the Rhomboid muscles. The nerve to the Subclavius is a small filament, which arises from the fifth cervical at its point of junction with the sixth nerve; it descends in front of the subclavian artery to the Subclavius muscle, and is usually connected by a filament with the phrenic nerve. The posterior thoracic nerve {long thoracic, external respiratory of Bell) (fig. 461) supplies the Serratus magnus, and is remarkable for the length of its course. It sometimes arises by two roots, from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves immediately after their exit from the intervertebral foramina, but generally by three roots from the fifth, sixth, and seventh nerves. These unite in the substance of the Middle scalenus muscle, and, after emerging from it, the nerve passes down behind the brachial plexus and the axillary vessels, resting on the outer surface of the Serratus magnus. It extends along the side of the chest to the lower border of that muscle, supplying filaments to each of its digitations. , The suprascapular nerve (fig. 462) arises from the cord formed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves ; passing obliquely outwards beneath the Trapezius, it enters the supraspinous fossa, through the notch in the upper border of the scapula ; and, passing beneath the Supraspinatus muscle, curves in front of the spine of the scapula to the infraspinous fossa. In the supraspinous fossa it gives oft' two branches to the Supraspinatus muscle, and an articular filament to the shoulder- joint ; and in the infraspinous fossa it gives off two branches to the Infraspinatus muscle, besides some filaments to the shoulder-joint and scapula. Branches below the Clavicle The branches given off below the clavicle are derived from the three cords of the brachial plexus, in the following manner :— From the outer cord arise the external of the two anterior thoracic nerves, the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and the outer head of the median. From the inner cord arise the internal of the two anterior thoracic nerves, the internal cutaneous, the lesser internal cutaneous (nerve of Wrisberg), the ulnar and inner head of the median. From the ^posterior cord arise two of the three subscapular nerves, the third arising from the posterior division of the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves ; the cord then divides into the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves.