THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES 57 ramified cells. This tissue appears to serve the purpose of maintaining the gland- pulp in the centre of the space in its proper position. On account of the peculiar arrangement of the framework of the organ, the gland-pulp in the cortical portion is disposed in the form of nodules, and in the medullary part in the form of rounded cords. It consists of ordinary lymphoid tissue, being made up of a delicate reticulum of retiform tissue, which is continuous with that in the lymph-]3aths, but marked off from it by a closer reticulation; in its meshes are closely packed lymph-corpuscles, traversed by a dense plexus of capillary blood-vessels. The ajferent vessels, as above stated, enter at all parts of the periphery of the gland, and after branching and forming a dense plexus in the substance of the capsule open into the lymph-sinuses of the cortical part. In doing this, they lose all their coats except their endothelial lining, which is continuous with a layer of similar cells lining the lymph-paths. In like manner the efferent vessel commences from the lymph-sinuses of the medullary portion. The stream of lymph carried to the gland by the afferent vessel thus passes through the plexus in the capsule to the lymph-paths of the cortical portion, where it is exposed to the action of the gland-pulp ; flowing through these it enters the paths or sinuses of the medullary portion, and finally emerges from the hilum by -means of the efferent vessel. The stream of lymph in its passage through the lymph-sinuses is much retarded by the presence of the reticulum. Hence morphological elements, either normal or morbid, are easily arrested and de- posited in the sinuses. This is a matter of con- siderable importance in connection with the subject of poisoned wounds and the absorption of the poison by the lymphatic system, since by this means septic organisms carried along the - lymphatic vessels may be arrested in the lymph- sinuses of the gland-tissue, and thus be prevented from entering the general circulation. The arteries of the gland enter at the hilum and either pass at once to the gland-pulp, to break up into a capillary plexus, or else run along the trabeculaB, partly to supply them and partly running across the lymph-paths to assist in forming the capillary plexus of the gland-pulp. This plexus traverses the lymphoid tissue, but does not pass into the lymph-sinuses. From it the veins commence and emerge from the organ at the same place as that at which the artery enters. THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES The skin (fig. 67) is the principal seat of the sense of touch, and may be regarded as a covering for the protection of the deeper tissues ; it is also an important excretory and absorbing organ. It consists principally of a layer of vascular tissue, named the derma, corvum, or cutis vera, and an external covering of epithelium, termed the epidermis or cuticle. On the surface of the former layer are the sensi- tive ; and within, or embedded beneath it, are certain organs with special functions, namely, the sioeat-glands, hair-follicles, and sebaceous glands. Fig. 66,—Section of lymphatic gland tissue. a. Trabeculas. h. Small artery iu substance of same. c. Lymph-paths. d. Lymph-corpuscles, e. Capillary plexus.