CRANIAL NERVES 760 to all the parts of the tongue to whioii it is distribnted. Its sui:)erficial origin is by three or four filaments closely connected together, from the u^Dper part of the medulla oblongata, in the groove between the olivary and the restiform body. Its deep origin may be traced through the fasciculi of the lateral tract, to a nucleus of grey matter at the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle beneath the inferior fovea, below the inner nucleus of the auditory nerve, and above that of the pneumogastric. From its superficial origin, it passes outwards across the flocculus, and leaves the skull at the central part of the jugular foramen, in a separate sheath of the dura mater, in front of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves (fig. 386). In its passage through the jugular foramen, it grooves the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and, at its exit from the skull, passes forwards between the jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and descends in front of the latter Fig. 451.—Nerves of the eighth vessel, and beneath the styloid process and pair, their origin, ganglia, and the muscles connected with it, to the lower communications. border of the Stylo-pharyngeus. The nerve juyuinya„„gi. now curves inwards, forming an arch on the side of the neck, and lying upon the Stylo- pharyngeus and Middle constrictor of the pharynx, above the superior laryngeal nerve. It then passes beneath the Hyo-glossus, and is finally distributed to the mucous membrane of the fauces and base of the tongue, and the mucous glands of the mouth and tonsil. In passing through the jugular foramen, the nerve presents, in succession, two gangli- form enlargements. The superior, the smaller, is called the jugular ganglion; the inferior and larger, the ijetrous ganglion, or the ganglion of Andersch. The superior, or jugular, ganglion is situated in the upper part of the groove in which the nerve is lodged during its passage through the jugular foramen. It is of very small size, and involves only the lower part of the trunk of the nerve. It is usually regarded as a segmentation from the lower ganglion. The inferior, or petrous, ganglion is situated in a depression in the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; it is larger than the former, and involves the whole of the fibres of the nerve. From this ganglion arise those filaments which connect the glosso-pharyngeal with the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves. The branches of communication are with the pneumogastric, sympathetic, and facial. The branches to the pneumogastric are two filaments, arising from the petrous ganglion, one to its auricular branch, and one to the upper ganglion of the pneumogastric. The branch to the sympathetic, also arising from the petrous ganglion, is connected with the superior cervical ganglion. The branch of communication with the facial perforates the posterior belly of the Digastric. It arises from the trunk of the nerve below the petrous ganglion, and joins the facial just after its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. The branches of distribution are, the tympanic, carotid, pharyngeal, muscular, tonsillar, and lingual. The tympanic branch (Jacobson's nerve) arises from the petrous ganglion, and enters a small bony canal in the lower surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone; the lower opening of which is situated on ■ the bony ridge which separates the carotid canal from the jugular fossa. It ascends to the tympanum, enters that cavity by an aperture in its floor close to the inner wall, and divides into branches, which are contained in grooves upon the surface of the promontory, forming the tympanic plexus.