SURGICAL ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNIA to form the dartos. From the scrotmii it may be traced backwards to be continuous with the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perinseum. In the female it is continuous with the labia majora. The scrotum is a cutaneous pouch, which contains the testes and part of the spermatic cords, and mto which an inguinal hernia frequently descends (see page 1021). The Aponeurosis of the External Oblique Muscle.—This is a thin, but strong membranous aponeurosis, the fibres of which are directed obliquely downwards and inwards. That portion of the aponeurosis which extends bet^v^een the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the os pubis is a broad band, folded inwards and continuous below vdth. the fascia lata ; it is called Pouparfs ligament. The portion which is reflected from Poupart's ligament at the spine of the os pubis, along the pectineal line, is called GimhernaVs ligament. From the point of attach- ment of the latter to the pectineal line, a few fibres pass upwards and inwards, behind the inner pillar of the rmg to the linea alba. They diverge as they ascend and form a thin, triangular, fibrous band, which is called the triangular ligament of the abdomen. In the aponeurosis of the External oblique, immediately above the crest of the os pubis, is a triangular opening, the external or superficial abdominal ring, formed by the separation of the fibres of the aponeurosis in this situation. The external or superficial abdominal ring.—Just above and to the outer side of the crest of the os pubis, an interval is seen in the aponeurosis of the External oblique, called the external abdominal ring. This aperture is oblique in direction, somewhat triangular in form, and corresponds with the course of the fibres of the aponeurosis. It usually measures from base to apex about an inch, and transversely about half an inch. It is bounded below by the crest of the os pubis ; above by a series of curved fibres, the intercolumnar, which pass across the upper angle of the ring, so as to increase its strength ; and on either side, by the margins of the opening in the aponeurosis, which are called the columns or pillars of the ring. The external pillar, which, at the same time, is inferior from the obliquity of its direction, is the stronger; it is formed by that portion of Poupart's ligament which is inserted into the spine of the os pubis; it is curved, so as to form a kind of groove, upon which the spermatic cord rests. The internal or superior pillar is a broad, thin, flat band, which is attached to the front of the body of the os pubis, interlacing with its fellow of the opposite side, in front of the symphysis pubis, that of the right side being superficial. The external abdominal ring gives passage to the spermatic cord in the male, and round ligament in the female ; it is much larger in men than in women, on account of the large size of the spermatic cord, and hence the great frequency of inguinal hernia in men. The intercolumnar fibres are a series of curved tendinous fibres, which arch across the lower part of the aponeurosis of the External oblique. They have received their name from stretching across between the two pillars of the external ring; they increase the strength of the lower part of the aponeurosis, and prevent the divergence of the pillars from one another. They are thickest below, where they are connected to the outer third of Poupart's ligament ; and are inserted into the linea alba, describing a curve, with the convexity downwards. They are m.uch thicker and stronger at the outer angle of the external ring than internally, and are more strongly developed in the male than in the female. These intercolumnar fibres, as they pass across the external abdominal ring, are themselves connected together by delicate fibrous tissue, thus forming a fascia which, as it is attached to the pillars of the ring, covers it in, and is called the intercolumnar fascia. This intercolumnar fascia is continued downwards as a tubular prolongation around the outer surface of the cord and testis, and encloses them in a distinct sheath, hence it is also called the external spermatic fascia. The sac of an inguinal hernia, in passing through the external abdominal ring, receives an investment from the intercolumnar fascia. If the finger is introduced a short distance into the external ring, and then, if