lOtO MALE OKGANS OF GENERATION The fold of peritoneum, constituting the processus vaginalis, projects itself downwards into the inguinal canal, forming a gradually elongating depression or cul-de-sac, which eventually reaches the bottom of the scrotum, and into this the testicle is drawn by the growth of the body of the foetus, for the gubernaculum does not grow commensurately with the growth of other parts, and therefore the testicle, being attached by the gubernaculum to the bottom of the scrotum, is prevented from rising as the body grows, and is drawn first into the inguinal canal and eventually into the scrotum. By the eighth month, the testicle has reached the scrotum, preceded by the lengthened pouch of peritoneum, the processus vaginalis, which communicates by its upper extremity with the peritoneal cavity. Just before birth the upper part of the pouch usually becomes closed, and this obliteration extends gradually downwards to within a short distance of the testis. The process of peritoneum surrounding the testis which is now entirely cut off from the general peritoneal cavit}" constitutes the tunica vaginalis.* In the female, a small cord, corresponding to the gubernaculum in the male, descends to the inguinal region, and ultimately forms the round ligament of the uterus. A pouch of peritoneum accompanies it along the inguinal canal, analogous to the processus vaginalis in the male : it is called the canal of Nuck. SiLvgical Anatomy.—Abnormalities in the formation and in the descent of the testicle may occur. The testicle may fail to be developed; or the testicle may be fully developed, and the vas deferens may be undeveloped in whole or part; or again, both testicle and vas deferens may be fully develoj^ed, but the duct may not become connected to the gland. The testicle may fail in its descent, or it may descend into some abnormal position. Thus it may be retained in the position where it was primarily developed, below the kidney; or it may descend to the internal abdominal ring, but fail to pass through this opening; it may be retained in the inguinal canal, which is perhaps the most common position ; or it may pass through the external abdominal ring and remain just outside it, failing to pass to the bottom of the scrotum. On the other hand, it may get into some abnormal position: it may pass the scrotum and reach the perinseum, or it may fail to enter the inguinal canal, and may find its way through the femoral ring into the crural canal, and present itself on the thigh at the saphenous opening. There is still a third class of cases of abnormality of the testicle, where the organ has descended in due course into the scrotum, but is malplaced. The most common form of this is where the testicle is inverted ; that is to say, the organ is rotated so that the epididymis is connected to the front of the scrotum, and the body, surrounded by the tunica vaginalis, is directed backwards. In these cases the vas deferens is to be felt in the front of the cord. The condition is of importance in connection with hydrocele and h«matocele, and the position of the testicle should always be carefully ascertained before performing any operation for these affections. Again, more rarely, the testicle may be reversed. This is a condition in which the top of the testicle, indicated by the globus major of the epididymis, is at the bottom of the scrotum, and the vas deferens comes off from the summit of the organ. * The obliteration of the process of peritoneum which accompanies the cord, and is hence called the funicular j^rocess, is often incomplete. See section on Inguinal Hernia.