LINGUAL EEGION 391 deep portion of the submaxillary gland and Wharton's duct; the sublingual and ranine vessels, and the buccal mucous membrane. Dissection—The Mylo-hyoid should now be removed, in order to expose the muscles which lie beneath ; this is effected by detaching it from its attachments to the hyoid bone and jaw, and separating it by a vertical incision from its fellow of the opposite side. The Genio-hyoid is a narrow, slender muscle, situated immediately beneath* the inner border of the preceding. It arises from the inferior genial tubercle on the inner side of the symphysis of the jaw, and passes downwards and backwards, to be inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the os hyoides. This muscle lies in close contact with its fellow of the opposite side, and increases slightly in breadth as it descends. Relations.—It is covered by the Mylo-hyoid, and lies on the Genio-hyo-giossus. Nerves.—The Digastric is supplied : its anterior belly, by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental; its posterior belly, by the facial ; the Stylo-hyoid, by the facial; the Mylo-hyoid, by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental; the Genio-hyoid, by the hypoglossal. Actions.—This group of muscles performs two very important actions. They raise the hyoid bone, and with it the base of the tongue, during the act of degluti- tion ; or, when the hyoid bone is fixed by its depressors and those of the larynx, they depress the lower jaw. During the first act of deglutition, when the mass is being driven from the mouth into the pharynx, the hyoid bone, and with it the tongue, is carried upwards and forwards by the anterior belly of the Digastric, the Mylo-hyoid, and Genio-hyoid muscles. In the second act, when the mass is passing through the pharynx, the direct elevation of the hyoid bone takes place by the combined action of all the muscles ; and after the food has passed, the hyoid bone is carried upwards and backwards by the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, which assist in preventing the return of the morsel into the mouth. Dissection.—After completing the dissection of the preceding muscles, saw through the lower jaw just external to the symphysis. Then draw the tongue forwards, and attach it, by a stitch, to the nose ; when its muscles, which are thus put on the stretch, may be examined. The Genio-hyo-glossus has received its name from its triple attachment to the jaw, hyoid bone, and tongue, but it would be better named the Genio-glossus, since its attachment to the hyoid bone is very slight or altogether absent. It is a flat, triangular muscle, placed vertically on either side of the middle line, its apex corresponding with its point of attachment to the lower jaw, its base with its insertion into the tongue and hyoid bone. It arises by a short tendon from the superior genial tubercle on the inner side of the symphysis of the jaw, immediately above the Genio-hyoid ; from this point the muscle spreads out in a fan-like form, a few of the inferior fibres passing downwards, to be attached by a thin aponeurosis into the upper part of the body of the hyoid bone ; the middle fibres passing back- wards, and the superior ones upwards and forwards, to enter the whole length of the under surface of the tongue, from the base to the apex. The two muscles lie on either side of the median plane; behind, they are quite distinct from each other, and are separated at their insertion into the under surface of the tongue by a tendinous raphe, which extends through the middle of the organ ; in front, the two muscles are more or less blended: distinct fasciculi are to be seen passing off from one muscle, crossing the middle line, and intersecting with bundles of fibres derived from the muscle on the other side (fig. 279). * This refers to the depth of the muscles from the skin in the order of dissection. In the erect position of the body each of these muscles lies above the preceding. 4. Lingual Eegion Genio-hyo-glossus. Hyo-glossus. Stylo-giossus. Palato-glossus. Chondro-glossus.