31 BONE of ossification. While they have been going on here a similar process has been proceeding in the same manner towards the end of the shaft, so that in the ossifying bone all the changes described above may be seen in different parts, from the true bone in the centre of the shaft to the hyaline cartilage at the extremities. The bone thus formed differs from the bone of the adult in being more spongy and less regularly lamellated. Thus far, then, we have followed the steps of a process by which a solid bony mass is produced, having vessels running into it from the periosteum. Haversian canals in which those vessels run, medullary spaces filled with foetal marrow, lacunae with their contained bone-cells, and canaliculi growing out of these lacunae. This process of ossification, however, is not the origin of the whole of the skeleton, for even in those bones in which the ossification proceeds in a great measure from a single centre, situated in the cartilaginous shaft of a long bone, a considerable part of the original bone is formed by intramembranous ossification beneath the perichondrium or periosteum ; so that the girth of the bone is increased by bony deposit from the deeper layer of this membrane. The shaft of the bone is at first solid, but a tube is hollowed out in it by absorption around the vessels passing into it, which becomes the medullary canal. This absorption is supposed to be brought about by large ' giant-cells,' which have long been recognised as a constituent of foetal marrow, and which are believed by Kolliker to have the power of absorbing or dissolving bone, and he has therefore named them ' osteoclasts ' (fig. 33,/.) They vary in shape and size, and are known by containing a large number of clear nuclei, sometimes as many as twenty. The occurrence of similar cells in some tumours of bones has led to such tumours being denominated ' myeloid.' As more and more bone is removed by this process of absorption from the interior of the bone to form the medullary canal, so more and more bone is deposited on the exterior from the periosteum, until at length the bone has attained the shape and size which it is destined to retain during adult life. As the ossification of the cartilaginous shaft extends towards the articular ends it carries with it, as it were, a layer of cartilage, or the cartilage grows as it ossifies, and thus the bone is increased in length. During this period of grovv^th the articular end, or epiphysis, remains for some time entirely cartilaginous, then a bony centre appears in it, and it commences the same process of intracartilaginous ossification ; but this process never extends to any great distance. The epiphyses remain separated from the shaft by a narrow cartilaginous layer for a definite time. This layer ultimately ossifies, the distinction between shaft and epiphysis is obliterated, and the bone assumes its completed form and shape. The same remarks also apply to the processes of bone which are separately ossified, such as the trochanters of the femur. The bones, having been formed, continue to grow until the body has acquired its full stature. They increase in length by ossification continuing to extend in the epiphysial cartilage, which goes on growing in advance of the ossifying process. They increase in circumference by deposition of new bone, from the deeper layer of the periosteum, on their external surface, and at the same time an absorption takes place from within, by which the medullary cavity is increased. The medullary spaces which characterise the cancellous tissue are produced by the absorption of the original foetal bone in the same way as the original medullary canal is formed. The distinction between the cancellous and compact tissue appears to depend essentially upon the extent to which this process of absorption has been carried; and we may perhaps remind the reader that in morbid states of the bone inflammatory absorption produces exactly the same change, and converts portions of bone, naturally compact, into cancellous tissue. Intramembranous Ossification.—The intramembranous ossification is that by which the bones of the vertex of the skull are entirely formed. In the bones which are so developed, no cartilaginous mould precedes the appearance of the bone-tissue. In the membrane which occupies the place of the future bone, a little network of bony spicuhe is first noticed, radiating from the point of ossifica- 1 tion. When these rays of growing bone are examined by the microscope, they