i6i SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE infra-orbital foramen, the termination of the infra-orbital canal; it transmits the infra-orbital vessels and nerve. Above the infra-orbital foramen is the margin of the orbit, which affords partial attachment to the Levator labii superioris proprius. To the sharp margin of bone which bounds this surface in front and separates it from the internal surface is attached the Dilator naris posterior. The posterior or zygomatic surface is convex, directed backwards and out- wards, and forms part of the zygomatic fossa. It presents about its centre several apertures leading to canals in the substance of the bone ; they are termed the posterior dental canals, and transmit the posterior dental vessels and nerves. At the lower part of this surface is a rounded eminence, the maxillary tuberosity, especially prominent after the growth of the wisdom-tooth, rough on its inner side for articulation with the tuberosity of the palate-bone and sometimes with the external pterygoid plate. It gives attachment to a few fibres of origin of the Internal pterygoid muscle. Immediately above the rough surface is a groove, which, running obliquely down on the inner surface of the bone, is converted Fig. 154.—Left superior maxillary bone. Outer surface. Outer Surface. into a canal by articulation with the palate-bone, forming the p)osterior palatine canal. The superior or orbital surface is thin, smooth, triangular, and forms part of the floor of the orbit. It is bounded internally by an irregular margin which in front presents a notch, the lachrymal notch, which receives the lachrymal bone; in the middle articulates with the os planum of the ethmoid, and behind with the orbital process of the palate-bone ; bounded externally by a smooth, rounded edge which enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure, and which sometimes articulates at its anterior extremity with the orbital plate of the sphenoid; bounded in front by part of the circumference of the orbit, which is continuous, on the inner side with the nasal, on the outer side with the malar process. Along the middle line of the orbital surface is a deep groove, the infra-orbital, for the passage of the infra-orbital vessels and nerve. The groove commences at the middle of the outer border of this surface, and, passing forwards, terminates in a canal, which subdivides into two branches. One of the canals, the m'