ELBOW-JOINT condyle and to the front of the humerus immediately above the coronoid fossa ; below, to the anterior surface of the coronoid process of the ulna and orbicular ligament, being continuous on each side with the lateral ligaments. Its superficial fibres pass obliquely from the inner condyle of the humerus outwards ' to the fe^i^l§iii^ The middle fibres, vertical in direction, pass from the upper part of the coronoid depression and become partly blended with the preceding, but mainly inserted into the anterior surface of the coronoid process. The deep or transverse set intersects these at right angles. This ligament is in relation, in front, with the Brachialis anticus, except at its outermost part; behind, with the synovial membrane. The Posterior Ligament (fig. 246) is a thin and loose membranous fold, attached, above, to the lower end of the humerus, on a level with the upper part of the olecranon fossa ; below, to the margin of the olecranon. The superficial or trans- verse fibres pass between the adjacent margins of the olecranon fossa. The deeper portion consists of vertical fibres, which pass from the upper part of the olecranon fossa to the margin of the olecranon. This ligament is in relation, behind, with the tendon of the Triceps and the Anconeus ; in front, with the synovial membrane. The Internal Lateral Ligament (fig. 245) is a thick triangular band consisting of two portions, an anterior and posterior, united by a thinner intermediate portion. The anterior jjortion, directed obliquely forwards, is attached, above, by its apex, to the front part of the internal condyle of the humerus ; and, below, by its broad base, to the inner margin of the coronoid process. The posterior portion, also of triangular form, is attached, above, by its apex, to the lower and back part of the internal condyle ; below, to the inner margin of the olecranon. Between these two bands a few intermediate fibres descend from the internal condyle to blend with a transverse band of ligamentous tissue which bridges across the notch between the olecranon and coronoid processes. This ligament is in relation, internally, with the Triceps and Flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and the ulnar nerve, and gives origin to part of the Flexor sublimis digitorum. The External Lateral Ligament (fig. 246) is a short and narrow fibrous band, less distinct than the internal, attached, above, to a depression below the external condyle of the humerus ; below, to the orbicular ligament, some of its most posterior fibres passing over that ligament, to be inserted into the outer margin of the ulna. This ligament is intimately blended with the tendon of origin of the Supinator brevis muscle. The Synovial Membrane is very extensive. It covers the margin of the articular surface of the humerus, and lines the coronoid and olecranon fossae on that bone; from these points, it is reflected over the anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments ; and forms a pouch between the lesser sigmoid cavity, the internal surface of the orbicular ligament, and the circumference of the head of the radius. Between the capsular ligament and the synovial membrane are three masses of fat : one, the largest, above the olecranon fossa, which is pressed into the fossa by the triceps during flexion ; a second, over the coronoid fossa; and a third, over the radial fossa. These are pressed into their respective fossae during extension. The Muscles in relation with the joint are, in front, the Brachialis anticus ; behind, the Triceps and Anconeus ; externally, the Supinator brevis, and the common tendon of origin of the Extensor muscles ; internally, the common tendon of origin of the Flexor muscles, and the Flexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar nerve. The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the communicating branches between the superior profunda, inferior profunda, and anastomotica magna arteries, branches of the brachial, with the anterior, posterior, and interosseous recurrent branches of the ulnar, and the recurrent branch of the radial. These vessels form a complete chain of inosculation around the joint. The Nerves are derived from the ulnar, as it passes between the internal