MUSCLES AND FASCIA 38o layer, attached to the entu^e extent of the upper temporal ridge; but below, where it is attached to the zygoma, it consists of two layers, one of which is inserted into the outer, and the other into the inner border of the zygomatic arch. A small quantity of fat, the orbital branch of the temporal artery, and a filament from the orbital, or temporo-malar, branch of the superior maxillary nerve, are contained between these two layers. It affords attachment by its inner surface to the superficial fibres of the Temporal muscle. Dissection.—In order to expose the Temporal muscle, remove the temporal fascia, which may be effected by separating it at its attachment along the upper border of the zygoma, and dissecting it upwards from the surface of the muscle. The zygomatic arch should then be divided, in front, at its junction with the malar bone ; and, behind, near the external auditory meatus, and drawn downwards with the Masseter, which should be detached from its insertion into the ramus and angle of the jaw. The whole extent of the Temporal muscle is then exposed. The Temporal (fig. 273) is a broad, radiating muscle, situated at the side of the head, and occupying the entire extent of the temporal fossa. It arises from the whole of the temporal fossa except that portion of it that is formed by the malar bone. Its attachment extends from the external angular process of the frontal in Fig. 273.—The Temporal muscle, the zygoma and Masseter having been removed. front, to the mastoid portion of the temporal behind ; and from the curved line on the frontal and parietal bones above, to the pterygoid ridge on the great wing of the sphenoid below. It is also attached to the inner surface of the temporal fascia. Its fibres converge as they descend, and terminate in an aponeurosis, the fibres of which, radiated at its commencement, converge into a thick and flat tendon, which is inserted into the inner surface, apex, and anterior border of the coronoid process of the jaw, nearly as far forwards as the last molar tooth. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the integument, the Attrahens and Attollens aurem muscles, the temporal vessels and nerves, the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis, the temporal fascia, the zygoma, and Masseter. By its deep surface, with the temporal fossa, the External pterygoid and part of the Buccinator muscles, the internal maxillary artery, its deep temporal branches, and the deep temporal nerves. Behind the tendon are the masseteric vessels and nerve, and in front of it the buccal vessels and nerve. Its anterior border is separated from the malar bone by a mass of fat. Nerves.—Both muscles are supplied by the inferior maxillary nerve.