OEGANS OF DIGESTION 88o substance, or terminate in small dilatations, from which branches are given off. Near the periphery of the dentine, the finer ramifications of the tubuli terminate in a layer of irregular branched spaces, which communicate with each other. These are called the interglobular spaces of Gzermak, or the gramilnr layer of Purkinje (fig. 514). The dental tubuli have comparatively thick walls, and contain slender cylindrical prolongations from the cells of the pulp-tissue, first described by Mr. Tomes, and named Tomes's fibres or dentinal fibres. These dentinal fibres are analogous to the soft contents of the canaliculi of bone. Between Tomes's fibres and the ivory of the canals there is an elastic homo- geneous membrane which resists the action of acids—the dentinal sheath of Neumann. The intertuhular suhstance is translucent, finely granular, and contains the chief part of the earthy matter of the dentine. After the earthy matter has been removed by steeping a tooth in weak acid, the animal basis remaining may be torn into laminae which run parallel with the pulp-cavity, across the direction of the tubes. A section of dentine often displays a series of somewhat parallel lines —the incremental lines of Salter. These lines are composed of a number of masses of imperfectly calcified dentine arranged in layers. In consequence of the imperfection in the calcifying process, little irregular cavities are left, termed interglobular spaces, similar to those in the granular layer, but larger. They have received their name from the fact that they are surrounded by minute nodules or globules of dentine. Other curved lines may be seen parallel to the surface. These are the lines of Schreger, and are due to the optical effect of simultaneous curvature of the dentinal fibres. Chemical Composition.—According to Berzelius and Bibra, dentine consists of 28 parts of animal and 72 of earthy matter. The animal matter is resolvable by boiling into gelatin. The earthy matter consists of phosphate of lime, carbonate of lime, a trace of fluoride of calcium, phosphate of magnesia, and other salts. The enamel is the hardest and most compact part of a tooth, and forms a thin crust over the exposed part of the crown, as far as the commencement of the fang. It is thickest on the grinding surface of the crown, until worn away by attrition, and becomes thinner towards the neck. It consists of a congeries of minute hexagonal rods. They lie parallel with one another, resting by one extremity upon the dentine, which presents a number of minute depressions for their reception ; and forming the free surface of the crown by the other extremity. These fibres are directed vertically on the summit of the crown, horizontally at the sides ; they are about the of an inch in diameter, and pursue a more or less wavy course. The enamel is marked by a series of undulating lines, which cross each other, or ' decussate' ; these lines are doubtless formed by the variation in the course of the enamel-rods. Another series of lines, having a brown appearance, and denominated the parallel strice of Betzius, are seen on a section of the enamel. Their exact significance is uncertain. Numerous minute interstices intervene between the enamel fibres near their dentinal surface, a provision calculated to alloAV of the permeation of fluids from the dentinal tubule into the substance of the enamel. It is a disputed point whether the dentinal fibres penetrate a certain distance between the rods of the enamel or not. No nutritive canals exist in the enamel. Chemical Composition.—According to Bibra, enamel consists of 96*5 per cent, of earthy matter, and 3*5 per cent, of animal matter. The earthy matter con- sists of phosphate of lime, with traces of fluoride of calcium, carbonate of lime, phosphate of magnesia, and other salts. The cortical substance, or cement {crusta petrosa), is disposed as a thin layer on the roots of the teeth, from the termination of the enamel, as far as the apex of the fang, where it is usually very thick. In structure and chemical composition it resembles bone. It contains, sparingly, the lacunae and canaliculi which characterise true bone ; the lacunae placed near the surface have the canaliculi radiating from the side of the lacunae towards the periodontal membrane; and