EXTEENAL CAROTID 531 no blood passes through the sac of the aneurism, and consequently it and the vessel shrinks, and a cure is effected. Collateral Circulation.—After ligature of the common carotid, the collateral circula- tion can be perfectly established, by the free communication which exists between the carotid arteries of opposite sides, both without and within the cranium, and by enlarge- ment of the branches of the subclavian artery on the side corresponding to that on which the vessel has been tied—the chief communication outside the skull taking place between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, and the profunda cervicis and arteria princeps cervicis of the occipital; the vertebral taking the place of the internal carotid within the cranium. Sir A. Cooper had an opportunity of dissecting, thirteen years after the operation, the case in which he first successfully tied the common carotid (the second case in which he performed the operation).* The injection, however, does not seem to have been a suc- cessful one. It showed merely that the arteries at the base of the brain (circle of Willis) were much enlarged on the side of the tied artery, and that the anastomosis between the branches of the external carotid on the affected side and those of the same artery on the sound side was free, so that the external carotid was pervious throughout. External Carotid Artery The external carotid artery (fig. 347) commences opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and, taking a slightly curved course, passes upwards and for- wards, and then inclines backwards to the space between the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw and the external meatus, where it divides into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. It rapidly diminishes in size in its course up the neck, owing to the number and large size of the branches given off from it. In the child, it is somewhat smaller than the internal carotid ; but in the adult, the two vessels are of nearly equal size. At its commencement, this artery is more superficial, and placed nearer the middle line than the internal carotid, and is contained in the triangular space bounded by the Sterno-mastoid behind, the Omo-hyoid. below, and the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid above. Relations.—It is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, Platysma, deep fascia, and anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid, crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, and by the lingual and facial veins ; it is afterwards crossed by the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and higher up passes deeply into the substance of the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve and the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins. Internally is the hyoid bone, wall of the pharynx, the superior laryngeal nerve, and the ramus of the jaw, from which it is separated by a portion of the parotid gland. Externally, in the lower part of its course, is the internal carotid artery. Behind it, near its origin, is the superior laryngeal nerve ; and higher up, it is separated from the internal carotid by the Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and part of the parotid gland. Surface Marhing.—The position of the external carotid artery may be marked out with sufficient accuracy by a line drawn from the front of the meatus of the external ear to the side of the cricoid cartilage, slightly arching the line forwards. Surgical Anatomy.—The application of a ligature to the external carotid may be required in cases of wounds of this vessel, or of its branches when these cannot be tied, and in some cases of pulsating tumour of the scalp or face. The operation has not received the attention which it deserves, owing to the fear which surgeons have entertained of secondary haemorrhage, on account of the number of branches given off from the vessel. This fear, however, has been shown by Mr. Cripps not to be well founded.t To tie this vessel near its origin, below the point where it is crossed by the Digastric, an incision about three inches in length should be made along the margin of the Sterno-mastoid, from the angle of the jaw to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The ligature should be applied between the lingual and superior thyroid branches. To tie the vessel above the Digastric, between it and the parotid gland, an incision should be made, from the lobe of the ear to the great cornu of the os hyoides dividing successively the skin, Platysma, and fascia. By drawing the Sterno-mastoid outwards, and the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles downwards, and separating them from the parotid gland, the vessel will be exposed, and a ligature may be applied to it. The circulation is at once re-established by the free communication between most of the * Guy's Hospital Be])orts, i. 56. t Med.-Chir. Trans. Ixi. 229. M M 2