261 FEMUR continuous above with the outer surface of the great trochanter, below with the outer surface of the external condyle: to its upper three-fourths is attached the outer portion of the Crureus muscle. The internal surface includes the portion of bone between the internal border and the inner lip of the linea aspera ; it is continuous above with the lower border of the neck, below with the inner side of the internal condyle : it is covered by the Vastus internus muscle. The Lower Extremity, larger than the upper, is of a cuboid form, flattened from /before backwards, and divided into two large eminences, the condyles (kwSvAos, a knuckle), by an interval which presents a smooth depression in front called the trochlea, and a notch of considerable size behind—the inter condyloid notch. The external condyle is the more prominent anteriorly, and is the broader both in the antero-posterior and transverse diameters. The internal condyle is the narrower, longer, and more prominent inferiorly. This difference in the length of the two condyles is only observed when the bone is perpendicular, and depends upon the obliquity of the thigh-bones, in consequence of their separation above at the articulation with the pelvis. If the femur is held obliquely, the surfaces of the two condyles will be seen to be nearly horizontal. The two condyles are directly continuous in front, and form a smooth trochlear surface, which articulates with the patella. It presents a median groove, which extends downwards and back- wards to the intercondyloid notch ; and two lateral convexities, of which the external is the broader, more prominent, and prolonged farther upwards upon the front of the outer condyle. The external border is also more prominent, and ascends higher than the internal one. The intercondyloid notch lodges the crucial liga- ments ; it is bounded laterally by the- opposed surfaces of the two condyles, and in front by the lower end of the shaft. Outer Condyle.—The outer surface of the external condyle presents, a little behind its centre, an eminence, the outer tuberosity ; it is less prominent than the inner tuberosity, and gives attachment to the external lateral ligaments of the knee. Immediately beneath it is a groove which commences at a depression a little behind the centre of the lower border of this surface : the front part of this depression gives origin to the Popliteus muscle, the tendon of which is lodged in the groove during flexion of the knee. The groove is smooth, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and runs upwards and backwards to the posterior extremity of the condyle. The inner surface of the outer condyle forms one of the lateral boundaries of the intercondyloid notch, and gives attachment, by its posterior part, to the anterior crucial ligament. The inferior surface is convex, smooth, and broader than that of the internal condyle. The posterior extremity is convex and smooth : just above the articular surface is a depression for the tendon of the outer head of the Gastrocnemius, above which is the origin of the Plantaris. Inner Condyle.—The inner siirface of the inner condyle presents a convex eminence, the inner tuberosity, rough, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament. The outer side of the inner condyle forms one of the lateral boundaries of the intercondyloid notch, and gives attachment, by its anterior part, to the posterior crucial ligament. Its inferior or articular surface is convex, and presents a less extensive surface than the external condyle. Just above the articular surface of the condyle, behind, is a depression for the tendon of origin of the inner head of the Gastrocnemius. Structure.—The shaft of the femur is a cylinder of compact tissue, hollowed by a large medullary canal. The cylinder is of great thickness and density in the middle third of the shaft, where the bone is narrowest and the medullary canal well formed ; but above and below this the cylinder gradually ^becomes thinner, owing to a separation of the layers of the bone into cancelli, which project into the medullary canal and finally obliterate it, so that the upper and lower ends of the shaft, and the articular extremities more especially, consist of cancellated tissue, invested by a thin, compact layer. The arrangement of the cancelli in the ends of the femur is remarkable. In the upper end they are arranged in two sets. One, starting from the top of the head,