SPHENOID BONE fossa, or sella turcica, which lodges the pituitary body. This fossa is perforated by numerous foramina, for the transmission of nutrient vessels into the substance of the bone. It is bounded in front by two small eminences, one on either side, called the middle clinoid ijvocesses [kXIvt], a bed), which are sometimes connected by a spiculum of bone to the anterior clinoid processes, and behind by a square- shaped plate of bone, the dorsum ephippii or dorsum sellce, terminating at each superior angle in a tubercle, the posterior clinoid processes, the size and form of which vary considerably in different individuals. These processes deepen the pituitary fossa, and serve for the attachment of prolongations from the tentorium cerebelli. The sides of the dorsum ephippii are notched for the passage of the sixth pair of nerves, and below present a sharp process, the petrosal process, which is joined to the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, forming the inner boundary of the middle lacerated foramen. Behind this plate, the bone presents a shallow depression, which slopes obliquely backwards, and is continuous with the basilar groove of the occipital bone ; it is called the clivus, and supports the upper part of the pons Varolii. On either side of the body is a broad groove, curved Fig. 143.—Sphenoid bone. Superior surface. Ethmoidal something like the italic letter f; it lodges the internal carotid artery and the cavernous sinus, and is called the carotid or cavernous groove. Along the outer margin of this groove, at its posterior part, is a ridge of bone, in the angle between the body and greater wing, called the lincjula. The posterior surface, quadrilateral in form, is joined to the basilar process of the occipital bone. During childhood these bones are separated by a layer of cartilage ; but in after-life (between the eighteenth and twenty-fifth years) this becomes ossified, ossification commencing above and extending dow^nwards ; and the two bones then form one piece. The anterior surface (fig. 144) presents, in the middle line, a vertical ridge of bone, the ethmoidal crest, which articulates in front with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, forming part of the septum of the nose. On either side of it are irregular openings leading into the sphenoidal cells or sinuses. These are two large, irregular cavities hollowed out of the interior of the body of the sphenoid bone, and separated from one another by a more or less complete perpendicular bony septum. Their form and size vary considerably ; they are seldom symmetrical, and are often partially subdivided by irregular osseous laminae. Occasionally, they extend into the basilar process of the occipital nearly as far as the foramen magnum. The septum is seldom quite vertical, being commonly bent to one or the other side.