294 ARTICULATIONS The Posterior Common Ligament (figs. 227, 231) is situated within the spinal canal, and extends along the xDOsterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the body of the axis above, where it is continuous with the occipito-axial ligament, to the sacrum below. It is broader above than below, and thicker in the dorsal than in the cervical or lumbar regions. In the situation of the intervertebral substance and contiguous margins of the vertebras, where the ligament is more intimately adherent, it is broad, and presents a series of dentations with inter- vening concave margins ; but it is narrow and thick over the centre of the bodies, from which it is separated by the vencz basis vertehrcB. This ligament is composed of smooth, shining, longitudinal fibres, denser and more compact than those of the anterior ligament, and composed of a superficial layer occupying the interval between three or four vertebrae, and of a deeper layer which extends between one vertebra and the next adjacent to it. It is separated from the dura mater of Fig. 227.—Vertical section of two vertebrae and their ligaments, from the lumbar region. Posterior the spinal cord by some loose connective tissue which is very liable to serous infiltration. The Intervertebral Substance (figs. 227, 236) is a lenticular disc of composite structure interposed between the adjacent surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum, and forming the chief bond of connection between those bones. These discs vary in shape, size, and thickness, in different parts of the spine. In shape they accurately correspond with the surfaces of the bodies between which they are placed, being oval in the cervical and lumbar regions, and cn^cular in the dorsal. Their size is greatest in the lumbar region. In thickness they vary not only in the different regions of the spine, but in different parts of the same disc : thus, they are much thicker in front than behind in the cervical and lumbar regions, while they are uniformly thick in the dorsal region. The intervertebral discs form about one-fourth of the spinal column, exclusive of the first two vertebrae ; they are not equally distributed, however, between the various bones; the dorsal portion of the spine having, in proportion to its length, a much smaller quantity than in the cervical and lumbar regions, which necessarily gives to the latter parts greater pliancy and freedom of movement. The intervertebral discs are adherent, by their surfaces, to a thin layer of hyahne cartilage which