i88 THE SKELETON The Spheno-maxillaky Fossa The Spheno-maxillary Fossa is a small, triangular space situated at the angle of junction of the spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxillary fissures, and placed beneath the apex of the orbit. It is formed above by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid and by the orbital process of the palate-bone ; in front, by the superior maxillary bone; behind, by the anterior surface of the base of the pterygoid process and lower part of the anterior surface of the great wing of the sphenoid ; internally, by the vertical plate of the palate. This fossa has three fissures terminating in it, the sphenoidal, spheno-maxillary, and pterygo-maxillary ; it communicates with three fossae, the orbital, nasal, and zygomatic, and with the cavity of the cranium, and has opening into it five foramina. Of these there are three on the posterior wall : the foramen rotundum above ; below, and internal to this, the Vidian; and still more inferiorly and internally, the pterygo-palatine. On the inner wall is the spheno-palatine foramen by which the spheno-maxillary communicates with the nasal fossa ; and below is the superior orifice of the posterior palatine canal, besides occasionally the orifices of the accessory posterior palatine canals. The fossa contains the superior maxillary nerve and Meckel's ganglion, and the termination of the internal maxillary artery. Anteeior Kegion of the Skull The Anterior Region of the Skull, which forms the face, is of an oval form, presents an irregular surface, and is excavated for the reception of two of the organs of sense, the eye and the nose. It is bounded above by the glabella and margins of the orbit; below, by the prominence of the chin ; on each side, by the malar bone, and anterior margin of the ramus of the jaw. In the median line are seen from above downwards the glabella, and diverging from it are the superciliary ridges, which indicate the situation of the frontal sinuses and support the eyebrows. Beneath the glabella is the fronto-nasal suture, the mid-point of which is termed the nasion, and below this is the arch of the nose, formed by the nasal bones, and the nasal processes of the superior maxillary. The nasal arch is convex from side to side, concave from above downAvards, presenting in the median line the inter- nasal suture formed between the nasal bones, laterally the naso-maxillary suture formed between the nasal bone and the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. Below the nose is seen the opening of the anterior nares, which is heart- shaped, with the narrow end upwards, and presents laterally the thin, sharp margins serving for the attachment of the lateral cartilages of the nose, and in the middle line below, a prominent process, the anterior nasal spine, bounded by two deep notches. Below this is the intermaxillary suture, and on each side of it the incisive fossa. Beneath this fossa are the alveolar] processes of the upper and lower jaws, containing the incisor teeth, and at the lower part of the median line, the symphysis of the chin, the mental process, with its two mental tubercles, separated by a median groove, and the incisive fossa of the lower jaw. On each side, proceeding from above downwards, is the supra-orbital ridge, terminating externally in the external angular process at its junction with the malar, and internally in the internal angular process ; tow^ards the inner third of this ridge is the supra-orbital notch ox foramen, for the passage of the supra-orbital vessels and nerve, and at its inner side a slight depression for the attachment of the pulley of the Superior oblique muscle. Beneath the supra-orbital ridge is the opening of the orbit, bounded externally by the orbital ridge of the malar bone ; below, by the orbital ridge formed by the malar, superior maxillary, and lachrymal bones ; internally, by the nasal process of the superior maxillary, and the internal angular process of the frontal bone. On the outer side of the orbit is the quadri- lateral anterior surface of the malar bone, perforated by one or two small malar foramina. Below the inferior margin of the orbit is the infra-orbital foramen, the termination of the infra-orbital canal, and beneath this the canine fossa, which gives