344 AKTICULATIONS connected together by ligaments, some of which are placed on the exterior of the joint, while others occupy its interior. The Anterior Ligament, or Ligamentum Patellae (fig. 257), is the central portion of the common tendon of the Extensor muscles of the thigh which is continued from the patella to the tubercle of the tibia, supplying the place of an anterior ligament. It is a strong, flat, ligamentous band, about three inches in length, attached, above, to the apex of the patella and the rough depression on its posterior surface ; below, to the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia ; its superficial fibres being continuous over the front of the patella with those of the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor. The lateral portions of the tendon of the Extensor muscles pass down on either side of the patella, attached to the borders of this bone and its ligament, to be inserted into the upper extremity of the tibia on each side of the tubercle; externally, these portions merge into the capsular ligament. They are termed lateral loatellar ligaments. The posterior surface of the ligamentum patellae can usually be easily separated from the front of the capsular ligament. The Posterior Ligament (Ligamentum Posticum Winslowii) (fig. 258) is a broad, flat, fibrous band, formed of fasciculi, obliquely directed, and separated from one another by apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves. The strongest of these fasciculi is derived from the tendon of the Semi-membranosus, and passes from the back part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia obliquely upwards and outwards to the back part of the outer condyle of the femur. The posterior ligament forms part of the floor of the popliteal space, and the popliteal artery rests upon it. The Internal Lateral Ligament is a broad, flat, membranous band, thicker behind than in front, and situated nearer to the back than the front of the joint. It is attached, above, to the inner tuberosity of the femur ; below, to the inner tuberosity and inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, to the extent of about two inches. It is crossed, at its lower part, by the tendons of the Sartorius, Gracilis, and Semi-tendinosus muscles, a synovial bursa being interposed. Its deep surface covers the anterior portion of the tendon of the Semi-membranosus, the synovial membrane of the joint, and the inferior internal articular vessels and nerve ; it is intimately adherent to the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. The Long External Lateral Ligament is a strofig, rounded, fibrous cord, situated nearer to the back than the front of the joint. It is attached, above, to the back part of the outer tuberosity of the femur; below, to the outer part of the head of the fibula. Its outer surface is covered by the tendon of the Biceps, which divides at its insertion into two parts, separated by the ligament. The ligament has passing beneath it, the tendon of the Popliteus muscle, and the inferior external articular vessels and nerve. The Short External Lateral Ligament is an accessory bundle of fibres placed behind and parallel with the preceding, attached, above, to the lower and back part of the outer tuberosity of the femur; below, to the summit of the styloid process of the fibula. This ligament is intimately connected with the capsular hgament, and has, passing beneath it, the tendon of the Pophteus muscle, and the inferior external articular vessels and nerve. The Capsular Ligament consists of an exceedingly thin, but strong, fibrous membrane, which fills in the intervals left between the stronger bands above described, and is inseparably connected with them. In front it blends with the External Ligaments Anterior, or Ligamentum Pa- Interior Ligaments ticum Winslowii. Internal Lateral. Two External Lateral. Capsular. tellfe. Posterior, or Ligamentum Pos- Anterior, or External Crucial. Posterior, or Internal Crucial. Two Semilunar Fibro-Cartilages. Transverse. Coronary. Ligamentum mucosum. Ligamenta alaria.