617 FEMOEAL have been given off just below that portion. The termination of the profunda itself anastomoses most freely with the superior external articular. A long branch of anasto- mosis is also traced down from the internal iliac by means of the comes nervi ischiadici of the sciatic which anastomoses on the popliteal nerves with branches from the popliteal and posterior tibial arteries. In this case the anastomosis had been too free, since the pulsation and growth of the aneurism recurred, and the patient died after ligature of the external iliac. There is an interesting preparation in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons, of a limb on which John Hunter had tied the femoral artery fifty years before the patient's death. The whole of the superficial femoral and popliteal artery seems to have been obliterated. The anastomosis by means of the comes nervi ischiadici, which is shown in Porta's plate, is distinctly seen: the external circumflex, and the termination of the profunda artery, seem to have been the chief channels of anastomosis ; but the injection has not been a very successful one. Branches.—The branches of the femoral artery are, the Superficial Epigastric. [External Circumflex. Superficial Circumflex Iliac. Profmida J Internal Circumflex. Superficial External Pudic. (Three Perforating. Deep External Pudic. . Muscular. Anastomotica Magna. The superficial epigastric arises from the femoral, about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, and, passing through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, ascends on to the abdomen, in the superficial fascia covering the External oblique muscle, nearly as high as the umbilicus. It distributes branches to the superficial inguinal glands, the superficial fascia, and the integument, anastomosing with branches of the deep epigastric. The superficial circumfiex iliac, the smallest of the cutaneous branches, arises close to the preceding, and, piercing the fascia lata, runs outwards, parallel with Poupart's ligament, as far as the crest of the ilium, dividing into branches which supply the integument of the groin, the superficial fascia, and the superficial inguinal lymphatic glands, anastomosing with the circumflex iliac, and with the gluteal and external circumflex arteries. The superficial external pudic (superior) arises from the inner side of the femoral artery, close to the preceding vessels, and, after passing through the saphenous opening, courses inwards, across the spermatic cord or round ligament to be distributed to the integument on the lower part of the abdomen, the penis and scrotum in the male, and the labium in the female, anastomosing with branches of the internal pudic. The deep external pudic (inferior), more deeply seated than the preceding, passes inwards on the Pectineus muscle, covered by the fascia lata, which it pierces at the inner border of the thigh, its branches being distributed, in the male, to the integument of the scrotum and perinasum ; and in the female to the labium, anastomosing with branches of the superficial perineal artery. The Profunda Femoris [deej) femoral artery) nearly equals the size of the superficial femoral. It arises from the outer and back part of the femoral artery, from one to two inches below Poupart's ligament. It at first lies on the outer side of the superficial femoral, and then passes behind it and the femoral vein to the inner side of the femur, and, passing downwards beneath the Adductor longus, termmates at the lower third of the thigh in a small branch, which pierces the Adductor magnus (and from this circumstance is sometimes called the fourth perforating artery), and is distributed to the flexor muscles on the back of the thigh, anastomosing with branches of the popliteal and inferior perforating arteries. Relations.—Behind, it lies first upon the Iliacus, and then on the Pectineus, Adductor brevis, and Adductor magnus muscles. In front, it is separated from the femoral artery, above by the femoral and profunda veins, and below by the Adductor longus. On its outer side, the origin of the Vastus internus separates it from the femur.