PLANTAR REGION OF THE FOOT. SECOND LAYER Fig 334- -Muscles of the sole of the foot. Second layer. Fibrous Sheaths of the Flexor Tendons.—These are not so well marked as in the fingers. The flexor tendons of the toes as they run along the phalanges are retained against the hones by a fibrous sheath, forming osseo-aponeurotic canals. These sheaths are formed by strong fibrous bands, which arch across the tendons, and are attached on each side to the margins of the phalanges. Opposite the middle of the proximal and second phalanges the sheath is very strong, and the fibres pass transversely; but opposite the joints it is much thinner, and the fibres pass obliquely. Each sheath is lined by a synovial membrane, which is reflected on the contained tendon. The Abductor minimi digitilies along the outer border of the foot. It arises, by a very broad origin, from the outer tubercle of the os calcis, from the under surface of the os calcis in front of both tubercles, from the fore part of the inner tubercle, from the plantar fascia, and the intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum. Its tendon, after gliding over a smooth facet on the under surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, is inserted with the short Flexor of the little toe into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the plantar fascia. By its deej) sur- face, with the Flexor accessorius, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, the long- plantar ligament, and the tendon of the Peroneus longus. On its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerve, and it is separated from the Flexor brevis digitorum by a vertical septum of fascia. Dissection.—The muscles of the super- ficial layer should be divided at their origin, by inserting the knife beneath each, and cut- ting obliquely backwards, so as to detach them from the bone ; they should then be drawn forwards, in order to expose the second layer, but not cut away at their insertion. The two layers are separated by a thin mem- brane, the deep plantar fascia, on the re- moval of which is seen the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum, the Flexor acces- sorius, the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis. and the Lumbricales. The long flexor tendons cross each other at an acute angle, the Flexor longus hallucis running along the inner side of the foot, on a plane superior to that of the Flexor longus digi- torum, the direction of which is obliquely outwards. Second Layer Flexor accessorius. Lumbricales. The Flexor accessorius arises by two heads : the inner or larger, which is muscular, being attached to the inner concave surface of the os calcis, and to the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament; the outer head, flat and tendinous, to the mider surface of the os calcis, in front of its outer tubercle, and to the long plantar ligament: the two portions join at an acute angle, and are inserted into the outer