LYMPH AND CHYLE 5 influence of dilute hydrochloric acid it swells up, but does not dissolve ; but when thus swollen it is easily dissolved by a solution of pepsin. If heated for a considerable time in a solution of dilute hydrochloric acid, it gradually dissolves. Serum is the fluid liquor sanguinis after the fibrin-factors have been separated from it. It is a straw-coloured fluid, having a specific gravity of 1-027, with an alkaline reaction. Upon boiling it becomes solid, on account of the albumen which it contains. It contains also salts, fatty matters, sugar, and gases. Gases of the Blood.^—When blood is exposed to the vacuum of an air-pump, about half its volume is given off in the form of gases. These are carbonic acid, oxygen, and nitrogen. The relative quantities in 100 volumes of arterial and venous blood, at 0° C. and i m. pressure of mercury, are shown in the accompanying table:— Oxygen Carbonic acid Nitrogen Arterial blood . . 16 vols. 30 vols. i to 2 vols. Venous blood i . 6 to 10 vols. 35 vols. i to 2 vols. Eoughly stated they are as follows : Carbonic acid about two-thirds of the whole quantity of gas, oxygen rather less than one-third, nitrogen below one-tenth (Huxley). The greater quantity of the oxygen is in loose chemical combination with the haemoglobin of the blood-corpuscles, but some part is simply absorbed, just as it would be by water. The carbonic acid is in a state of chemical combina- tion with the salts of the serum, especially the sodium, with which it is combined partly as a carbonate and partly as a bicarbonate. The nitrogen is unimportant. It (or at least the greater part of it) is merely absorbed from the atmosphere under the pressure to which the blood is exposed, and can therefore be mechanically removed. Blood-crystals.—Haemoglobin, as stated above, when separated from the blood- corpuscles, readily undergoes crystallisation. These crystals, named licEinoglobin crystals, all belong, with the exception of those obtained from the squirrel, to the rhombic system. In human blood they are elongated prisms (fig. 4, a). In the A. Hgemoglobin crystals from human blood. B. Hfemiu crystals from blood treated with acetic acid, c. H^matoidin crystals from an oid apoplectic clot. squirrel they are hexagonal plates. Other crystals may be obtained by mixing dried blood with an equal quantity of common salt, and boiling it with a few drops of glacial acetic acid. A drop of the mixture placed on the slide will show the crystals on cooling. These are named hcBmin crystals, and consist of small acicular prisms (fig: 4, b). Occasionally in old blood-clots a third form of crystal is found, the h^matoidin crystal (fig. 4, c). LYMPH AND CHYLE Lymph is a transparent, colourless, or slightly yellow fluid, which is conveyed by a system of vessels, named lymphatics, into the blood. These vessels take their rise in nearly all parts of the body, and take up from the worn-out tissues that portion which is still available for purposes of nutrition, and return it into the veins close to the heart, there to be mixed with the mass of the blood. The greater number of these lymphatics empty themselves into one main duct, the thoracic