THE (ESOPHAGUS 893 temporal bones. As it descends it diminishes in thickness, and is gradually lost. It is strengthened posteriorly by a strong fibrous band, which is attached above to the pharyngeal spine on the under surface of the basilar portion of the occipital bone, and passes downwards, forming a median raphe, which gives attachment to the Constrictor muscles of the pharynx. The mucous coat is continuous with that lining the Eustachian tubes, the nares, the mouth, and the larynx. It is covered by columnar ciliated epithelium, as low down as on a level with the floor of the nares : below that point the epithelium is of the squamous variety. Beneath the mucous membrane are found racemose mucous glands; they are especially numerous at the upper part of the pharynx around the orifices of the Eustachian tubes. Throughout the pharynx are also numerous crypts or recesses, the walls of which are surrounded by lymphoid tissue, similar to what is found in the tonsils. Across the back part of the pharyngeal cavity, between the two Eustachian tubes, a considerable mass of this tissue exists, and has been named the i:>haryngeal tonsil. Above this in the middle line is an irregular, flask-shaped depression of the mucous membrane, extending up as far as the basilar process of the occipital bone. It is known as the bursa pharyngea, and is the remains of the diverticulum of the alimentary canal, which is concerned in the development of the pituitary body (see page 90). The muscular coat has been already described (page 396). Surgical Anatomy.—The internal carotid artery is in close relation with the pharynx, so that its pulsations can be felt through the month. It has been occasionally wounded by sharp-pointed instruments, introduced into the mouth and thrust through the wall of the pharynx. In aneurism of this vessel in the neck, the tumour necessaril}- bulges into the pharynx, as this is the direction in which it meets with the least resistance, nothing lying between the vessel and the mucous membrane except the thin Constrictor muscle, whereas on the outer side there is the dense cervical fascia, the muscles descending from the styloid process and the margin of the Sterno-mastoid. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is very vascular, and is often the seat of inflammation, frequently of a septic character, and dangerous on account of its tendency to spread to the larynx. On account of the tissue which surrounds the pharyngeal wall being loose and lax, the inflammation is liable to spread through it far and wide, extending downwards into the posterior mediastinum along the oesophagus. Abscess may form in the connective tissue behind the pharynx, between it and the vertebral column, constituting what is known as post-pharyngeal abscess. This is most commonly due to caries of the cervical vertebras, but may also be caused by suppuration of a lymphatic gland, which is situated in this position opposite the axis, and which receives lymphatics from the nares, or by a gumma or by acute pharyngitis. The abscess may be most easily evacuated bv an incision, with a guarded bistoury, through the mouth. It has recently been proposed to open the abscess aseptically by an incision in the neck behind the Sterno-mastoid. The operation, however, is a difficult one, unless the abscess is pointing laterally and does not give such free access to the seat of disease for the removal of necrosed bone, if any exists, and does not appear to present sufficient advantages to warrant its performance. Foreign bodies not unfrequently become lodged in the pharynx, and most usually at its termination at about the level of the cricoid cartilage, just beyond the reach of the finger, as the distance from the arch of the teeth to the commencement of the oesophagus is about six inches. The position of the opening of the Eustachian tubes should be carefully studied with a view to catheterism of these tubes, and the student should practise passing a catheter into them. This is to be done by introducing the instrument through the anterior nares, so that its point rests on the floor of the nasal cavity close to the septum ; it is then pushed gradually and slowly backwards until the posterior wall of the pharynx is reached. Then, having been slightly withdrawn so as to free the point from the wall of the pharynx, it is rotated outwards and upwards, so that the ring of the instrument is turned towards the external ear, and it can then be made to glide into the Eustachian tube. The (Esophagus The (Bsophagus, or gullet, is a muscular canal, about nine inches in length, extending from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences at the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, opposite the intervertebral disc between the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, descends along the front of the spine, through the posterior mediastinum, passes through the Diaphragm, and, entering the abdomen, terminates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach, opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra or the