59 THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES soluble in acetic acid. They are often marked on their surfaces with ridges and furrows, and are covered with numerous fibrils, which connect the surfaces of the . cells : these are known di.^ prickle cells (see page ii). (2) Immediately superficial to these is a single layer of flattened, spindle-shaped cells, the granular layer, which contain granules that become deeply stained in hgematoxylin. They are supposed to be cells in a transitional stage between the protoplasmic cells of the rete Malpighii I and the horny cells of the superficial layers. (3) Above this layer, the cells become indistinct, and appear, in sections, to form a homogeneous or dimly striated mem- i brane, composed of closely packed scales, in which traces of a flattened nucleus may be found. It is called the stratum lucidum. (4) As these cells successively approach the surface by the development of fresh layers from beneath, they assume a flattened jform, from the evaporation of their fluid contents, and consist of many layers of horny epithelial scales in which no nucleus is discernible, forming the stratum corneum. These cells apparently become changed in their chemical composition, as they are now unaffected by acetic acid. The deepest layer of the rete Malpighii lis separated from the papillae by an apparently homogeneous basement membrane, which is most distinctly brought into view in specimens prepared with chloride of gold. This, according to Klein, is merely the deepest portion of the epithelium. Fig. 68.—Microscopic section of skin, showing the epidermis and derma: a hair in its follicle : the arrector pili muscle : sebaceous and sudoriferous glands. land is ' made up of the basis of the individual cells, which have undergone a chemical and morphological alteration.' The black colour of the skin in the negro, ind the tawny colour among some of the white races, is due to the presence of [pigment in the cells of the cuticle. This pigment is more especially distinct in the cells of the deeper layer, or rete mucosum, and is similar to that found in the cells of the pigmentary layer of the retina. As the cells approach the surface and desiccate, the colour becomes partially lost. The derma, corium, or cutis vera, is tough, flexible, and highly elastic, in order to defend the parts beneath from violence. It varies in thickness, from a quarter of a line to a line and a half, in different parts of the body. Thus it is very thick in the palms of the hands and soles of the :"eet; thicker on the posterior aspect of the body than the front, and on the outer :han the inner side of the limbs. In the eyelids, scrotum, and penis it is exceed- ngly thin and delicate. The skin generally is thicker in the male than in the "emale, and in the adult than in the child. ! The corium consists of fibrous connective tissue, with a large admixture of elastic fibres and numerous blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. The fibro- ireolar tissue forms the framework of the cutis, and is differently arranged in lifferent parts, so that it is usual to describe it as consisting of two layers : the