156 THE SKELETON cranium ; a perpendicular plate, which forms part of the septum nasi; and two lateral masses of cells. The Horizontal or Cribriform Plate (fig. 147) forms part of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull, and is received into the ethmoid notch of the frontal Fig. 147.—Ethmoid bone. Outer surface of right pl'ites. Projecting upwards bulging; in which case it is found to enclose a small sinus.* On each side of the crista galli, the cribriform plate is narrow, and deeply grooved, to support the bulb of the olfactory tract, and perforated by foramina for the passage of the olfactory nerves. These foramina are arranged in three rows : the innermost, which are the largest and least numerous, are lost in grooves on the upper part of the septum ; the foramina of the outer row are continued on to the surface of the upper spongy bone. The foramina of the middle row are the smallest; they perforate the bone, and transmit nerves to the roof of the nose. At the front part of the cribriform plate, on each side of the crista galli, is a small fissure, which transmits the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve; and at its posterior part a triangular notch, which receives the ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid. The Perpendicular Plate (fig. 148) is a thin, flattened lamella of bone, which descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate, and assists in forming the septum of the nose. It is much thinner in the middle than at the circum- ference, and is generally deflected a little to one side. Its anterior border articu- lates with the nasal spine of the frontal bone and crest of the nasal bones. Its posterior, divided into two parts, articulates by its upper half with the ethmoidal crest of the sphenoid, by its lower half with the vomer. The inferior border serves for the attachment of the triangular cartilage of the nose. On each side of the perpendicular plate numerous grooves and canals are seen, leading from foramina on the cribriform plate ; they lodge filaments of the olfactory nerves. The Lateral Masses of the ethmoid consist of a number of thin-walled cellular cavities, the ethmoidal cells, interposed between two vertical plates of bone, the outer one of which forms part of the orbit, and the inner one part of the nasal fossa of the corresponding side. In the disarticulated bone many of these cells appear to be broken ; but when the bones are articulated, they are closed in at every part. The upper surface of each lateral mass presents a number of apparently half-broken cellular spaces; these ar£ closed in when articulated by the edges of the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone. Crossing this surface are two grooves on * Sir George Humphry states that the crista galli is commonly inclined to one side, usually the opposite to that towards which the lower part of the perpendicular plate is bent.—The Human Skeleton, 1858, p. 277. bone between the two orbital u'<M infMurhmcUed 6- lateral mass (enlarged). from the middle line of this plate is a thick, smooth, triangular process of bone, the crista galli, so called from its resemblance to a cock's comb. Its base joins the cribriform plate. Its pos- terior border, long, thin, and slightly curved, serves for the attachment of the falx cerebri. Its anterior border, short and thick, articulates with the frontal bone, and presents two small projecting alas, which are received into cor- responding depressions in the frontal, completing the fora- men caecum behind. Its sides are smooth and sometimes