NERVOUS SYSTEM 694 it loses its crescentic arrangement, becomes more abmidant, and is disposed with less regularity. The caput of the posterior horns becomes enlarged, and gradually shifted outwards, so that they form rounded masses, close under the lateral tract, and produce the prominence on the surface called the funiculus of Rolando. The neck of the cornu diminishes in size, and is broken up into a reticular formation by the passage of longitudinal and transverse fibres through it, so that the caput is separated from the rest of the grey matter. As the central canal expands into the fourth ventricle, the rest of the posterior horn of grey matter is pushed outwards into the funiculus cuneatus and funiculus gracilis; in each of these funiculi it forms a distinct accumulation of grey matter, constituting the nucleus cuneatus and the nucleus gracilis. The anterior horn of grey matter is broken up by the passage through it of the crossed pyramidal tract from the lateral column of the cord. By this means the anterior portion of the horn is completely isolated from the remainder, and constitutes the lateral nucleus of grey matter which is situated near the surface of the lateral tract. The greater part of the rest of the anterior horn being permeated by the decussating fibres presents a reticular formation. A small part of the base of the anterior cornu comes to the surface of the floor of the fourth ventricle, and is exposed to view by the divergence of the funiculus cuneatus and funiculus gracilis. It forms a continuous mass, which gradually increases in size and forms the eminence of the fasciculus teres. In it is a group of nerve-cells, which form the nucleus from which the roots of the hypoglossal nerve arise. At the base of the posterior cornu, in the lower part of the medulla, is a group of cells, which, if traced upwards, are found to be pushed on one side; so that in the floor of the fourth ventricle they are outside the hypoglossal nucleus and form a second eminence, the ala cinerea : from it arise the roots of the accessory portion of the spinal accessory, pneumogastric, and giosso-pharyngeal nerves. Outside this again, and towards the upper part of the medulla, is another group of cells from which most of the fibres of the auditory nerve take origin. Another independent mass of grey matter is found in the olivary body forming the corpus dentatum. It consists of a grey layer arranged in the form of a hollow capsule, open at its upper and inner part, and presenting a zigzag or dentated out- line. White fibres enter the interior of this capsule by the aperture at its upper and inner part, constituting the olivary peduncles. Some of these fibres terminate in the cells of the corpus dentatum, while others are continued through the grey layer to join the arciform fibres. Furthermore, two small isolated bands of grey matter are seen, one on the dorsal and the other on the mesial aspect of the corpus dentatum : these are known as accessory olivary nuclei. Pons Varolii The pons Varolii (tuber ajinulare) is the bond of union of the various segments of the encephalon, connecting the cerebrum above, the medulla oblongata below, and the cerebellum behind. It is situated above the medulla oblongata, below the crura cerebri, and between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Its anterior surface presents a broad transverse band of white fibres, which arches like a bridge across the upper part of the medulla, extending between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum. This surface projects considerably beyond the level of these parts, is of quadrangular form, rests upon the clivus of the sphenoid bone, and is limited before and behind by very prominent margins. It presents along the middle line a longitudinal groove, wider in front than behind, which lodges the basilar artery: numerous transverse striae are also observed on each side, which indicate the course of its superficial fibres. li^ posterior surface forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle.