134 THE SKELETON and deep wound and great risk of septic meningitis, and as the advantages to be derived from it are exceedingly problematical and confined to a very few cases, it is not often resorted to. Trephining has also been resorted to in some cases of paraplegia, due to Potts's disease of the spine. Here the paralysis is due to the pressure of inflammatory products, and where this is new scar-tissue, formed by the organisation of granulation tissue, its removal has been attended with a very considerable amount of success. THE SKULL The Skull, or superior expansion of the vertebral column, has been described as if composed of four vertebr^e, the elementary parts of which are specially modified in form and size, and almost immovably connected, for the reception of the brain and special organs of the senses. These vertebrae are the occipital, parietal, frontal, and nasal. Descriptive anatomists, however, divide the skull into two parts, the Cranium and the Face. The Cranium (Kpavo?, a helmet) is composed of eight bones—viz. the occijntal, two parietal, f rontal, two temporal, sphenoid, and ethmoid. The Face is composed of fourteen bones—viz. the two nasal, two superior maxillary, two lachrymal, two malar, two palate, two inferior turbinated, vomer, and inferior maxillary. The ossicula auditus, the teeth, and Wormian bodies are not included in this enumeration. Skull, 2 2 hones. Cranium, 8 bones Face, 14 hones Occipital. Two parietal. Frontal. Two Temporal. Sphenoid. Ethmoid. Two Nasal. Two Superior Maxillary. Two Lachrymal. Two Malar. Two Palate. Two Inferior Turbinated. Vomer. Inferior Maxillary. The Occipital Bone The Occipital Bone (ob, caput, against the head) is situated at the back part and base of the cranium, is trapezoid in form (fig. 130), curved upon itself, and presents for examination two surfaces, four borders, and four angles. The external surface is convex. Midway between the summit of the bone and the posterior margin of the foramen magnum is a prominent tubercle, the external occipiital protuberance, for the attachment of the Ligamentum nuchae; and descending from it as far as the foramen, a vertical ridge, the external occipital crest. This tubercle and crest vary in prominence in different skulls. Passing outwards from the occipital protuberance is a semicircular ridge on each side, the superior curved line. Above this line there is often a second less distinctly marked ridge, called the highest curved line {linea suprema), to it the epicranial aponeurosis is attached. The bone between these two lines is smoother and denser than the rest of the surface. Running parallel with these from the middle of the crest is another semicircular ridge on each side, the inferior curved lines. The surface of the bone above the superior curved lines is rough and porous, and, in the recent state, is covered by the Occipito-frontalis muscle, whilst the ridges, as well as the surface of the bone between them, serve for the attachment of numerous muscles. The superior curved line gives attachment internally to the Trapezius, externally to the muscular origin of the Occipito-frontalis, and to. the Sterno-cleido-mastoid, to the extent shown in fig. 130; the depressions between the curved lines to the Complexus internally, the Splenius capitis and Obliquus capitis superior externally. i