1013 THE MALE URETHEA will be pushed out of the way, and an incision three inches long may be made in the linea alba from the symphysis pubis upwards without any great risk of wounding the peritoneum. When distended the bladder can be felt in the male, from the rectum, behind the prostate, and fluctuation can be perceived by a bimanual examination, one finger being introduced into the rectum and the distended bladder tapped on the front of the abdomen with the finger of the other hand. This portion of the bladder, that is, the portion felt in the rectum by the finger, is also uncovered by peritoneum, and the bladder may here be punctured from the rectum, in the middle line, without risk of wounding the serous membrane. 8u7'gical Anatomy.—A defect of development, in which the bladder is implicated, is known under the name of extroversion of tJie bladder. In this condition the lower part of the abdominal wall and the anterior wall of the bladder are wanting, so that the posterior surface of the bladder presents on the abdominal surface, and is pushed forwards by the pressure of the viscera within the abdomen, formmg a red vascular tumour, on which the openings of the ureters are visible. The penis, except the glans, is rudimentary and is cleft on its dorsal surface, exposing the floor of the urethra, a condition known as ejnspadias. The pelvic bones are also arrested in development (see page 256). The bladder may be ruptured by violence applied to the abdominal wall, when the viscus is distended, without any injury to the bony pelvis, or it may be torn in cases of fracture of the pelvis. The rupture may be either intraperitoneal or extraperitoneal, that is, may implicate the posterior surface of the bladder in the former case, or the anterior surface in the latter. Kupture of the anterior surface alone is, however, very rare. Until recently intraperitoneal rupture was uniformly fatal, but now abdominal section and suturing the rent with Lembert's suture is resorted to, with a very considerable amount of success. The sutures are inserted only through the peritoneal and muscular coats in such a way as to bring the serous surfaces at the margins of the wound into apposition, and one is inserted just beyond each end of the wound. The bladder should be tested as to whether it is water-tight, before closing the external wound. The muscular coat of the bladder undergoes hypertrophy in cases in which there is any obstruction to the flow of mnne. Under these circmnstances the bundles of which the muscular coat consists become much increased in size, and, interlacing in all directions, give rise to what is known as the fasciculated bladder. Between these bundles of muscular fibres the mucous membrane may bulge out, forming sacculi, constituting the sacculated bladder, and in these little pouches phosphatic secretions may collect, forming encysted calculi. The mucous membrane is very loose and lax, except over the trigone, to allow of the distension of the viscus. Various forms of tumour have been found springing from the wall of the bladder. The innocent tumours are the papilloma and the mucous polypus arising from the mucous membrane; the fibrous, from the submucous tissue; and the myoma, originating in the muscular tissue ; and, very rarely, dermoid tumours, the exact origin of which it is difficult to explain. Of the malignant tumours, epithelioma is the most common, but sarcomata are occasionally found in the bladder of children. Puncture of the bladder may be performed either above the pubes or through the rectum, in both cases without wounding the peritoneum. The former plan is generally to be preferred, since in puncture by the rectum a permanent fistula may be left from abscess forming between the rectum and the bladder ; or pelvic cellulitis may be set up ; moreover, it is exceedingly inconvenient to keep a cannula in the rectum. In some cases, in performing this operation the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum has been wounded, inducing fatal peritonitis. The operation, therefore, has been almost completely abandoned. The Male Uii:^ithea The urethra in the male extends from the neck of the bladder to the meatus urinarius. It presents a double curve in the flaccid state of the penis, but in the erect state it forms only a single curve, the concavity of which is directed upwards (fig. 599). Its length varies from eight to nine inches ; and it is divided into three portions, the prostatic, membranous, and spongy, the structure and relations of which are essentially different. Except during the passage of the urine or semen, the urethra is a mere transverse cleft or slit, with its upper and under surfaces in contact. At the orifice of the urethra at the end of the penis, the slit is vertical, and in the prostatic portion somewhat arched. The Prostatic portion is the widest and most dilatable part of the canal. It passes through the prostate gland, from its base to its apex, lying nearer its upper than its lower surface. It is about an inch and a quarter in length ; the form of the canal is spindle-shaped, being wider in the middle than at either extremity, and narrowest in front, where it joins the membranous portion. A transverse section of