923 COLON back part of the large intestine, opposite the junction of the caecum with the colon. At this point the mucous membrane forms two valvular folds, w^hich project into the large intestine, and are separated from each other by a narrow elongated aperture. These folds form the ileo-caecal valve {valvula Bauhini). Each fold is semilunar in form. The upper one, nearly horizontal in direction, is attached by its convex border to the point of junction of the ileum with the colon ; the lower segment, to the point of junction of the ileum with the caecum. Their free concave margins project into the intestine, separated from one another by a narrow slit-like aperture, directed transversely. At each end of this aperture the two segments of the valve coalesce, and are continued as a narrow membranous ridge around the canal of the intestine for a short distance, forming the frcsna, or retinacula, of the valve. The left or anterior end of this aperture is rounded ; the right or posterior end is narrow and pointed. Each segment of the valve is formed by a reduplication of the mucous membrane and of the circular muscular fibres of the intestine, the longitudinal fibres and peritoneum being continued uninterruptedly across from one intestine to the other. When these are divided or removed, the ileum maybe drawn outwards, and all traces of the valve will be lost, the ileum appearing to open into the large intestine by a funnel-shaped orifice of large size. The surface of each segment of the valve directed towards the ileum is covered with villi, and presents the characteristic structure of the mucous membrane of the small intestine ; whilst that turned towards the large intestine is destitute of villi, and marked with the orifices of . the numerous tubular glands peculiar to the membrane in the large intestine. These differences in structure continue as far as the free margin of the valve. When the caecum is distended, the margins of the opening are approximated, so as to prevent any reflux into the ileum. The colon is divided into four parts—the ascending, transverse, descending, and the sigmoid flexure. The ascending colon is smaller than the caecum. It passes upwards, from its commencement at the caecum, opposite the ileo-caecal valve, to the under surface of the liver, on the right of the gall-bladder, where it bends abruptly inwards to the left, forming the hepatic flexure. It is retained in contact with the posterior wall of the abdomen by the peritoneum, which covers its anterior surface and sides, its posterior surface being connected by loose areolar tissue with the Quadratus lumborum, right kidney, and descending portion of the duodenum (figs. 543, 544) : sometimes the peritoneum almost completely invests it, and forms a distinct but narrow meso-colon.* It is in relation, in front, wdth the convolutions of the ileum and the abdominal parietes ; behind, it lies on the Quadratus lumborum muscle and right kidney and descending portion of the duodenum. The transverse colon, the longest part of the large intestine, passes trans- versely from right to left across the abdomen, opposite the confines of the epigastric and umbilical zones, into the left hypochondriac region, where it curves downwards beneath the lower end of the s]Dleen, forming the si:)leniG flexure. In its course it describes an arch, the concavity of which is directed backwards towards the vertebral column ; hence the name transverse arch of the colon. This is the most movable part of the colon, being almost completely invested by peritoneum, and connected to the spine behind by a large and wide duplicature of that membrane, the transverse meso-colon. It is in relation, by its upper surface, with the liver * Mr. Treves states that, after a careful examination of one hundred subjects, he found thai in fifty-two there was neither an ascending nor a descending meso-colon. In twenty- two there was a descending meso-colon, but no trace of a corresponding fold on the other side. In fourteen subjects there was a meso-colon to both the ascending and the descending segments of the bowel; while in the remaining twelve there was an ascending meso-colon, but no corresponding fold on the left side. It follows, therefore, that in performing lumbar colotomy a meso-colon may be expected upon the left side in 36 per cent, of all cases, and on the right 26 per cent. Tlie Anatomy of the Intestinal Canal and Peintoneum in Man, 1885, p. 55.