866 OBGANS OF SENSE which contains the auditory nerve. Within the osseous labyrinth is contained the membranous labyrinth, upon which the ramifications of the auditory nerve are distributed. The Vestibule (fig. 504) is the common central cavity of communication between the parts of the internal ear. It is situated on the inner side of the tympanum, behind the cochlea, and in front of the semicircular canals. It is somewhat ovoidal in shape from before backwards, flattened from within outwards, and measures about one-fifth of an inch from before backwards, as well as from above downwards, being narrower from without inwards. On its outer or tympanic ivall is the fenestra ovalis, closed, in the recent state, by the base of the stapes, and its annular ligament. On its innei- ivall, at the fore part, is a small circular depression, fovea hemispJierica, which is perforated, at its anterior and inferior part, by several minute holes {macula crihrosa) for the passage of the filaments of the auditory nerve ; and behind this depression is a vertical ridge, the i^yramidal eminence {crista vestihuli). At the hinder part of the inner wall is the orifice of the aque- ductus vestihuli, which extends to the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It transmits a small vein, and, according to some, contains a Fig. 504.—The osseous labyrinth laid open. (Enlarged.) tubular prolongation of the lining membrane of the vestibule, which ends in a cul-de-sac between the layers of the dura mater within the cranial cavity. On the 'upjjer wall or roof is a transversely oval depression, fovea semi-elliptica, separated from the fovea hemispherica by the pyramidal eminence already mentioned. Behind, the semicircular canals open into the vestibule by five orifices. In front is a large oval opening, which communicates with the scala vestibuli of the cochlea by a single orifice, apertura scalcB vestibuli cochlecB. The Semicircular canals are three bony canals, situated above and behind the vestibule. They are of unequal length, compressed from side to side, and describe the greater part of a circle. They measure about one-twentieth of an inch in diameter, and each presents a dilatation at one end, called the ampulla, which measures more than twice the diameter of the tube. These canals open into the vestibule by five orifices, one of the apertures being common to two of the canals. The superior semicircular canal is vertical in direction, and stretches across the petrous portion of the temporal bone, at right angles to its posterior surface; its arch forms a round projection on the anterior surface of the petrous bone. It describes about two-thirds of a circle. Its outer extremity, Avhich is ampullated, commences by a distinct orifice in the upper part of the vestibule ; the opposite end