496 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE outwards, and, after receiving the attachment of the Gemeni, is inserted into the inner surface of the great trochanter in front of the Obturator externus. A synovial bursa, narrow and elongated in form, is usually found between the tendon of this muscle and the capsular ligament of the hip : it occasionally communicates with the bursa between the tendon and the tuberosity of the ischium, the two forming a single sac. In order to display the peculiar appearances presented by the tendon of this muscle, it must be divided near its insertion and reflected outwards. Relations.—Within the pelvis, this muscle is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the obturator membrane and inner surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis ; by its posterior surface, with the pelvic and obturator fasciae, which separate it from the Levator ani ; and it is crossed by the internal pudic vessels and nerve. This surface forms the outer boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa. External to the pelvis, it is covered by the great sciatic nerve and Gluteus maximus, and rests on the back part of the hip-joint. The Gemelli are two small muscular fasciculi, accessories to the tendon of the Obturator internus, which is received into a groove between them. They are called superior and inferior. The Gemellus sup rior, the smaller of the two, arises from the outer surface of the spine of the ischium, and passing horizontally outwards becomes blended with the upper part of the tendon of the Obturator internus, and is inserted with it into the inner surface of the great trochanter. This muscle is sometimes wanting. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Gluteus maximus and the sciatic vessels and nerves. By its deep surface, with the capsule of the hip-joint. By its upper border, with the lower margin of the Pyriformis. By its loioer border, with the tendon of the Obturator internus. The G-emellus inferior arises from the upper part of the tuberosity of the ischium, where it forms the lower edge of the groove for the Obturator internus tendon, and, passing horizontally outwards, is blended with the lower part of the tendon of the Obturator internus, and inserted with it into the inner surface of the great trochanter. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Gluteus maximus and the sciatic vessels and nerves. By its deep surface, with the capsular ligament oi the hip-joint. By its upper border, with the tendon of the Obturator internus. By its loioer border, with the tendon of the Obturator externus and Quadratus femoris. The duadratus femoris is a short, fiat muscle, quadrilateral in shape (hence its name), situated between the Gemellus inferior and the upper margin of the Adductor magnus. It arises from the external lip of the tuberosity of the ischium, and, proceeding horizontally outwards, is inserted into the upper part of the linea quadrata, that is, the line which crosses the posterior intertrochanteric line. A synovial bursa is often found between the under surface of this muscle and the lesser trochanter, which it covers. Relations.—By its posterior surface, with the Gluteus maximus and the sciatic vessels and nerves. By its anterior surface, with the tendon of the Obturator externus and trochanter minor, and with the capsule of the hip-joint. By its upper border, with the Gemellus inferior. Its lower border is separated from the Adductor magnus by the terminal branches of the internal circumflex vessels. Dissection.—In order to expose the next muscle (the Obturator externus), it is necessary to remove the Psoas, Iliacus, Pectineus, and Adductor brevis and longus muscles from the front and inner side of the thigh ; and the Gluteus maximus and Quadratus femoris from the back part. Its dissection should, consequently, be postponed until the muscles of the anterior and internal femoral regions have been examined. The Obturator externus (fig. 327) is a flat, triangular muscle, which covers the outer surface of the anterior waU of the pelvis. It arises from the margin of bone