689 MEDULLA OBLONGATA divide the medulla into two symmetrical halves, each lateral half presenting elongated eminences which are continuous with the columns of the cord. By taking the lines along which some of the cranial nerves emerge from the medulla, as landmarks, we may divide the surface of this portion of the nervous system into three columns, just in the same way as the spinal cord is divided into three columns by the lines corresponding to the points of exit of the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The anterior column comprises that portion which is situated between the anterior median fissure and the fibres of origin of the hypoglossal nerve: this column is called the pyramid. The lateral column comprises that portion which is situated between the fibres of origin of the hypoglossal nerve and the fibres of origin of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves. In the lower part of the medulla this column is single, and is called the lateral tract; but in the upper part an oval-shaped body comes forward between it and the pyramid, pushing aside the lateral tract. This is called the olivary body. The posterior column comprises that portion which is situated between the fibres of origin of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves, and the pos- terior median fissure. This column is marked by slight furrows marking off smaller columns, and these in the lower part of the medulla are named, from without inwards, the funiculus of Bolando, the funiculus cuneatus, and the funiculus gracilis; in the upper part of the medulla, the funi- culus of Rolando and the funiculus cuneatus appear to become fused to- gether, forming a single body called the res tif07711 body. The pyramids are two pyramidal bundles of white matter, placed one on either side of the anterior median fissure, and separated from the olivary body, which is external to them, by a slight depression. At the lower border of the pons they are somewhat con- stricted ; they then become enlarged, and taper as they descend, being continuous below, by their outer portion, with the anterior columns of the cord (direct pyramidal tract), and by their inner portion with the decussating fibres, seen in the anterior median fissure, which are derived from the lateral column of the cord [crossed pyramidal tract). For, on separating the pyramids below, it will be observed that their innermost fibres form from four to five bundles on each side, which decussate with one another across the anterior median fissure ; this decussa- tion, however, is not formed of fibres from the anterior column of the cord, but from the deep portion of the lateral columns which pass forwards to the surface on the inner side of the anterior columns. The outermost fibres do not decussate; they are derived, as just stated, from the anterior column of the cord. The lateral column, in the lower part of the medulla, is of the same width as the lateral column of the cord, and appears on the surface to be a direct continuation of it. In the upper part of the medulla, the lateral tract, on account of the inter- polation of the olivary body, is reduced to a narrow strip, lying between the olivary and restiform bodies. The olivary body is a prominent oval mass, situated behind the pyramid, from which it is separated by a slight groove, along which the hypoglossal nerve arises. It is separated externally from the restiform body by a longitudinal narrow band of fibres, the continuation upwards of the lateral tract, and by a Y Y Fig. 411.—Medulla oblongata and pons Varolii. Anterior surface.