SHOULDER-JOINT 321 openings: one at its inner side, below the coracoid process, partially filled up by the tendon of the Subscapularis ; it establishes a communication between the synovial membrane of the joint and a bursa beneath the tendon of that muscle. The second, which is not constant, is at the outer part, where a communication sometimes exists between the joint and a bursal sac belonging to the Infra- spinatus muscle. The third is seen in the lower border of the ligament, between the two tuberosities, for the passage of the long tendon of the Biceps muscle. The Coraco-humeral or Accessory Ligament is a broad band which strengthens the upper part of the capsular ligament. It arises from the outer border of the coracoid process, and passes obliquely downwards and outwards to the front of the great tuberosity of the humerus, being blended with the tendon of the Supra- spinatus muscle. This ligament is intimately united to the capsular in the greater part of its extent. The Transverse Humeral Ligament.—This is a broad band of fibrous tissue passing from the lesser to the greater tuberosity of the humerus, and always limited to that portion of the bone which lies above the epiphysial line. It converts the bicipital groove into an osseo-aponeurotic canal, and is the analogue of the strong process of bone which connects the summits of the two tuberosities in the musk ox. Supplemental Bands of the Capsular Ligament.—In addition to the coraco- humeral or accessory ligament, the capsular ligament is strengthened by supple- mental bands in the interior of the joint. One of these bands is situated on the inner side of the joint, and passes from the inner edge of the glenoid cavity to the lower part of the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. This is sometimes known as Flood's ligament, and is supposed to correspond with the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint. A second of these bands is situated at the lower part of the joint, and passes from the under edge of the glenoid cavity to the under part of the neck of the humerus, and is known as Schlemm's ligament. The Glenoid Ligament is a fibro-cartilaginous rim attached round the margin of the glenoid cavity. It is triangular on section, the thickest portion being fixed to the circumference of the cavity, the free edge being thin and sharp. It is continuous above with the long tendon of the Biceps muscle, which bifurcates at the upper part of the cavity into two fasciculi, and becomes continuous with the fibrous tissue of the glenoid ligament. This ligament deepens the cavity for articula- tion, and protects the edges of the bone. It is lined by the synovial membrane. The Synovial Membrane is reflected from the margin of the glenoid cavity over the fibro-cartilaginous rim surrounding it ; it is then reflected over the internal surface of the capsular ligament, covers the lower part and sides of the neck of the humerus, and is continued a short distance over the cartilage covering the head of the bone. The long tendon of the Biceps muscle which passes through the capsular ligament is enclosed in a tubular sheath of synovial membrane, which is reflected upon it at the point where it perforates the capsule, and is continued around it as far as the summit of the glenoid cavity. The tendon of the Biceps is thus enabled to traverse the articulation, but it is not contained in the interior of the synovial cavity. The synovial membrane communicates with a large bursal sac beneath the tendon of the Subscapularis, by an opening at the inner side of the capsular ligament; it also occasionally communicates with another bursal sac, beneath the tendon of the Infraspinatus, through an orifice at its outer part. A third bursal sac, which does not communicate with the joint, is placed between the under surface of the Deltoid and the outer surface of the capsule. The Muscles in relation with the joint are, above, the Supraspinatus ; below, the long head of the Triceps ; internally, the Subscapularis ; externally, the Infra- spinatus and Teres minor; within, the long tendon of the Biceps. The Deltoid is placed most externally, and covers the articulation on its outer side, as well as in front and behind. The Arteries supplying the joint are articular branches of the anterior and posterior circumflex, and suprascapular. Y