OF THE LEG 499 Taking their fixed point from below, these muscles serve to support the pelvis upon the head of the femur, and to draw the trunk directly backwards, as in feats of strength, when the body is thrown backwards in the form of an arch. Surgical Anatomy.—The tendons of these mus- cles occasionally require subcutaneous division in some forms of spurious ankylosis of the knee-joint de- pendent upon permanent contraction and rigidity of the Flexor muscles, or from stiffening of the liga- mentous and other tissues surrounding the joint, the result of disease. This is effected by putting the tendon upon the stretch, and inserting a narrow, sharp-pointed knife between it and the skin : the cutting^ edge beino- then turned towards the tendon, it should be divided, taking care that the wound in the skin is not at the same time enlarged. The relation of the external popliteal nerve to the tendon of the Biceps must always be borne in mind in dividing this tendon. Muscles and Fasciae of the Leg Dissection (fig. 325).—The knee should be bent, a block placed beneath it, and the foot kept in an extended position ; then make an incision through the integfument in the middle line of the leg: to the ankle, and continue it along the dorsum of the foot to the toes. Make a second incision transversely across the ankle, and a third in the same direction across the bases of the toes; remove the flaps of integument included between these incisions in order to examine the deep fascia of the leg. The Deep Fascia of the Leg^ forms a com- plete investment to the muscles, but is not continued over the subcutaneous surfaces of the bones. It is continuous above with the fascia lata, receiving an expansion from the tendon of the Biceps on the outer side, and from the tendons of the Sartorius, Gracilis, and Semi- tendinosus on the inner side ; in front, it blends mth the periosteum covering the subcutaneous surface of the tibia, and with that covering the head and external malleolus of the fibula; below, it is continuous with the annular liga- ments of the ankle. It is thick and dense in the upper and anterior part of the leg, and gives attachment, by its deep surface, to the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum muscles : but thinner behind, where it covers the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. Over the popliteal space it is much strengthened by transverse fibres, which stretch across from the inner to the outer hamstring muscles, and it is here perforated by the external saphenous vein. Its deep surface gives off, on the outer side of the leg, two strong intermuscular septa, which enclose the Peronei muscles, and sepa- rate them from the muscles on the anterior and posterior tibial regions and several smaller and more slender processes, which enclose the Fig. 330.—Muscles of the front of K K 2