6 GENERAL ANATOMY duct, which passes along the front of the spine, and opens into one of the large veins at the root of the neck. The remainder empty themselves into a smaller duct, which terminates in the corresponding vein on the opposite side of the neck. Chyle is an opaque, milky-white fluid, absorbed by the villi of the small intestines from the food, and carried by a set of vessels similar to the lymphatics, named lacteals, to the commencement of the thoracic duct, where it is intermingled with the lymph and poured into the circulation through the same channels. It must be borne in mind that these two sets of vessels, lymphatics and lacteals, though differing in name, are identical in structure, and that the character of the fluid they convey is different only while digestion is going on. At other times the lacteals convey a transparent, nearly colourless fluid not to be distinguished from lymph. Both these sets of vessels, in their passage to the central duct, pass through certain small glandular bodies, termed lymijliatic glands, where their contents undergo elaboration. Lymph, as its name implies, is a watery fluid. It closely resembles the liquor sanguinis, and contains about 5 per cent of albumen and i per cent of salts. When examined under the microscope it is found to consist of a clear colourless fluid, in which are floating a number of corpuscles, lymph-co^yuscles. These bodies are identical in structure, and not to be distinguished from the white blood- corpuscles previously described. They vary in number in different parts of the lymphatic vessels, and indeed are said by Kolliker to be absent in the smaller ones. They are always increased in number after the passage of the lymph through a lymphatic gland, and are said to be increased in size as the fluid ascends higher in the course of the circulation. Chyle is a milk-white fluid, which exactly resembles lymph in its physical and chemical properties, except that it has in addition to the other constituents of lymph an enormous amount of fatty granules, ' the molecular basis of chyle,' and it is to the presence of these molecules that chyle owes its milky colour. Under the microscope it presents a number of corpuscles, named ' chyle-corpuscles,' which are indistinguishable from lymph-corpuscles or white blood-cells, and the molecular basis, consisting principally of fatty granules of extreme minuteness (fig. 5, a), ^ ^1 1 r. XI 1 X 1 t)ut also of a few small oil-globules. Lymph and Fig. 5.—Chvle from the lacteals. , , . t ji • chyle alter their passage through their respective glands, if withdrawn from the body and allowed to stand, separate more or less completely into a clear liquid, which is identical with the serum of the blood, and a thin jelly-like clot, consisting of a fibrillated matrix in which lymph-corpuscles or chyle-corpuscles and fatty molecules, as the case may be, are entangled. If the contents of the thoracic duct are exa- mined, especially after a meal, there may be found in it corpuscles with a reddish tinge. These are regarded as immature red corpuscles, or lymph and chyle corpuscles in process of transformation into blood-globules. They frequently give to the surface of clotted chyle and lymph a pinkish hue. They must not be mistaken for mature blood-globules which are sometimes found in lymph and chyle, and which are regarded by most observers as accidental, i.e. produced by the manipulations of the dissector. THE ANIMAL CELL All the tissues and organs of which the body is composed were originally developed from a microscopic body (the ovum), consisting of a soft gelatinous granular material enclosed in a membrane, and containing a vesicle, or small spherical body, inside which are one or more solid spots (see fig. 73). This may be regarded as a perfect cell. Moreover, all the solid tissues can be shown