686 NERVOUS SYSTEM middle, and inclining downwards towards the circumference. It covers the upper surface of the cerebellum, and supports the occipital lobes of the brain, and prevents them pressing upon the cerebellum. It is attached, behind, by its convex border to the transverse ridges upon the inner surface of the occipital bone, and there encloses the lateral sinuses ; in front, to the superior margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, enclosing the superior petrosal sinuses; and at the apex of this bone, the free or internal border and the attached or external border meet, and, forming two processes, cross one another and are continued forwards, to be attached to the anterior and posterior clinoid processes respectively. Along the middle line of its upper surface the posterior border of the falx cerebri is attached, the straight sinus being placed at their point of junction. Its anterior border is free and concave, and presents a large oval opening for the transmission of the crura cerebri. The falx cerehelli is a small triangular process of dura mater, received into the indentation between the two lateral lobes of the cerebellum behind. Its base is attached, above, to the under and back part of the tentorium; its posterior margin, to the lower division of the vertical crest on the inner surface of the occipital bone. As it descends, it sometimes divides into two smaller folds, which are lost on the sides of the foramen magnum. Arachnoid Membrane The arachnoid [apaxvy] etSos, like a spider's weh), so named from its extreme thinness, is a delicate membrane which envelops the brain, lying between the pia mater internally and the dura mater externally ; from this latter membrane it is separated by a space, the subdural space. It invests the brain loosely, being separated from direct contact with the cerebral substance by the pia mater, and a quantity of loose areolar tissue, the subaraclinoidean. On the upper surface of the cerebrum the arachnoid is thin and transparent, and may be easily demonstrated by injecting a stream of air beneath it by means of a blowpipe; it passes over the convolutions without dipping down into the sulci between them. At the base of the brain the arachnoid is thicker, and slightly opaque towards the central part; it covers the anterior lobes, and extends across between the two temporo-sphenoidal lobes, so as to leave a consi- derable interval between it and the brain, the anterior subaraclinoidean' space ; it is in contact with the pons and under surface of the cerebellum ; but between the hemispheres of the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata another considerable interval is left between it and the brain, called the posterior subaraclinoidean space. These two spaces communicate together across the crura cerehelli. The arachnoid membrane surrounds the nerves which arise from the brain, and encloses them in loose sheaths as far as their point of exit from the skull. The subarachnoid space is the interval between the arachnoid and pia mater : i this space is narrow on the surface of the hemispheres; but at the base of the brain a wide interval is left between the two temporo-sphenoidal lobes, and behind between the hemispheres of the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. This space is the seat of an abundant serous secretion, the cerebro-spinal fluid, which fills up the interval between the arachnoid and pia mater. The subarachnoid space usually communicates with the general ventricular cavity of the brain by means of an opening in the inferior boundary of the fourth ventricle. The subdural space also contains fluid; this is, however, small in quantity compared with the cerebro-spinal fluid. Structure.—The arachnoid consists of bundles of white fibrous and elastic tissue intimately blended together. Its outer surface is covered with a layer of endothelium. From its inner surface are given off a number of bundles of fine connective tissue, which form a sponge-like trabecular network in the subarachnoid space, in the interstices of which the cerebro-spinal fluid is contained. Vessels of considerable size, but few in number, and, according to Bochdalek, a rich plexus of