332 AKTICULATIONS The Synovial Membrane (fig. 251) lines the inner surface of the ligaments above described, extending from the loAver end of the radius and interarticular fibro-cartilage above to the articular surfaces of the carpal bones below. It is loose and lax and presents numerous folds, especially behind. Relations.—The wrist-joint is covered in front by the flexor, and behind by the extensor tendons ; it is also in relation with the radial and ulnar arteries. The Arteries supplying the joint are the anterior and posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar, the anterior and posterior interosseous, and some ascending branches from the deep palmar arch. The Nerves are derived from the ulnar and posterior interosseous. Actions.—The movements permitted in this joint are flexion, extension, abduc- tion, adduction, and circumduction. Its actions will be further studied with those of the carpus, with which they are combined. Surface Form.—The line of the radio-carpal joint is on a level with the apex of the styloid process of the ulna. Surgical Anatomy.—The wrist-joint is rarely dislocated, its strength depending mainly upon the numerous strong tendons which surround the articulation. Its security is further provided for by the number of small bones of which the carpus is made up, and whirh are united by very strong ligaments. The slight movement which takes place between the several bones serves to break the jars that result from falls or blows on the hand. Dislocation backwards, which is the more common, simulates to a considerable extent CoUes' fracture of the radius, and is liable to be mistaken for it. The diagnosis can be easily made out by observing the relative position of the styloid processes of the radius and the ulna. In the natural condition the styloid process of the radius is on a lower level, i.e. nearer the ground, when the arm hangs by the side, than that of the ulna, and the same would be the case in dislocation. In CoUes' fracture, on the other hand, the styloid process of the radius is on the same, or even a higher level than that of the ulna. The wrist-joint is occasionally the seat of acute synovitis, the result of traumatism, or arising in the rheumatic or pyaemic state. "When the synovial sac is distended with fluid, the swelling is greatest on the dorsal aspect of the wrist, showing a general fulness, with some bulging between the tendons. The inflammation is prone to extend to the inter- carpal joints and to attack also the sheaths of the tendons in the neighbom-liood. Chronic inflammation of the wrist is generally tubercular, and often leads to similar disease in the synovial sheaths of adjacent tendons and of the intercarpal joints. The disease, therefore, when progressive, often leads to necrosis of the carpal bones, and the result is often unsatisfactory. VIII. Aeticulatioxs of the Caepus These articulations may be subdivided into three sets— 1. The Articulations of the First Kow of Carpal Bones. 2. The Articulations of the Second Eow of Carpal Bones. 3. The Articulations of the Two Rows with each other. I. Articulations of the First Row of Carpal Bones These are arthrodial joints. The ligaments connecting the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones are— Dorsal. Palmar. Two Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments are placed transversely behind the bones of the first row; they connect the scaphoid and semilunar, and the semilunar and cuneiform. The Palmar Ligaments connect the scaphoid and semilunar, and the semilunar and cuneiform bones ; they are less strong than the dorsal, and placed very deeply under the anterior ligament of the wrist. The Interosseous Ligaments (fig. 251) are two narrow bundles of fibrous tissue, connecting the semilunar bone, on one side with the scaphoid, and on the other with the cuneiform. They are on a level with the superior surfaces of these bones, and close the upper part of the spaces between them. Their upper surfaces are smooth, and form with the bones the convex articular surfaces of the wrist- joint.