STEENO-CLAVICULAR JOINT \ It is larger in the female than in the male, but it is very questionable whether lU enlarges, as was formerly supposed, during pregnancy. It is most frequently limited to the upper and back part of the joint; but it occasionally reaches to the front, and may extend the entire length of the cartilage. This cavity may be easily demonstrated by making a vertical section of the symphysis pubis near its posterior surface. The Obturator Ligament is more properly regarded as analogous to the muscular fasciae, with which it will be described. ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The articulations of the Upper Extremity may be arranged in the following groups:—I. Sterno-clavicular articulation. 11. Acromio-clavicular articulation. III. Ligaments of the Scapula. IV. Shoulder-joint. V. Elbow-joint. VI. Radio-ulnar articulations. VII. Wrist-joint. VIII. Articulations of the Carpal Bones. IX. Carpo-metacarpal articulations. X. Metacarpo-phalangeal articulations. XL Articulations of the Phalanges. I. Stekno-clavicular Aeteculation (fig. 242) The Sterno-clavicular is regarded by most anatomists as an arthrodial joint; but Cruveilhier considers it to be an articulation by reciprocal reception. Probably Fig. 242.—Sterno-clavicular articulation. Anterior view. the former opinion is the correct one ; the varied movements, which the joint enjoys, being due to the interposition of an interarticular fibro-cartilage between the joint surfaces. The parts entering into its formation are the sternal end of the clavicle, the upper and lateral part of the first piece of the sternum, and the cartilage of the first rib. The articular surface of the clavicle is much larger than that of the sternum, and invested with a layer of cartilage,* which is considerably thicker than that on the latter bone. The ligaments of this joint are the Anterior Sterno-clavicular. Interclavicular. Posterior Sterno-clavicular. Costo-clavicular (rhomboid). Interarticular Fibro-cartilage. The Anterior Sterno-clavicular Ligament is a broad band of fibres, which covers the anterior surface of the articulation, being attached, above, to the upper * According to Bruch, the sternal end of the clavicle is covered by a tissue, which is rather fibrous than cartilaginous in structure.