357 OF OS CALCIS WITH NAVICULAR The Superior Calcaneo-cuboid Ligament (fig. 264)isathin and narrow fasciculus, which passes between the contiguous surfaces of the os calcis and cuboid, on the dorsal surface of the joint. The Internal Calcaneo-cuboid (Interosseous) Ligament (fig. 264) is a short, but thick and strong, band of fibres, arising from the os calcis, in the deep hollow which intervenes between it and the astragalus, and closely blended, at its origin, with the superior calcaneo-navicular ligament. It is inserted into the inner side of the cuboid bone. This ligament forms one of the chief bonds of anion between the first and second rows of the tarsus. The Long Calcaneo-cuboid (Long Plantar) Ligament (fig. 266), the more super- ficial of the two plantar ligaments, is the longest of all the ligaments of the tarsus : it is attached to the under surface of the os calcis, from near the tuberosities, as far forwards as the anterior tubercle ; its fibres pass forwards to be attached to the ridge on the under surface of the cuboid bone, the more superficial fibres being continued onwards to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. This ligament crosses the groove on the under surface of the cuboid bone, convert- ing it into a canal for the passage of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The Short Calcaneo-cuboid (Short Plantar) Ligament lies nearer to the bones than the preceding, from which it is separated by a little adipose tissue. It is exceedingly broad, about an inch in length, and extends from the tubercle, and the depression in front of it, on the fore part of the under surface of the os calcis, to the inferior surface of the cuboid bone behind the peroneal groove. Synovial Membrane.—The synovial membrane in this joint is distinct. It lines the inner surface of the ligaments. Actions.—The movements permitted between the os calcis and cuboid are limited to a slight gliding upon each other. 3. The Ligaments connecting the Os Calcis and Navicular Though these two bones do not directly articulate, they are connected together by two ligaments :— Superior or External Calcaneo-navicular. Inferior or Internal Calcaneo-navicular. The Superior or External Calcaneo-navicular (fig. 264) arises, as already mentioned, with the internal calcaneo-cuboid in the deep hollow between the astragalus and os calcis ; it passes forwards from the inner side of the anterior extremity of the os calcis to the outer side of the navicular bone. These two ligaments resemble the letter Y, being blended together behind, but separated in front. The Inferior or Internal Calcaneo-navicular (fig. 266) is by far the larger and stronger of the two ligaments between these bones ; it is a broad and thick band of fibres, which passes forwards and inwards from the anterior margin of the susten- taculum tali of the os calcis to the under surface of the navicular bone. This ligament not only serves to connect the os calcis and navicular, but supports the head of the astragalus, forming part of the articular cavity in which it is received. The up-per surface presents a fibro-cartilaginous facet, lined by the synovial membrane continued from the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation, upon which the head of the astragalus rests. Its under surface is in contact with the tendon of the Tibialis posticus muscle ; * its inner border is blended with the fore part of the Deltoid ligament, thus completing the socket for the head of the astragalus. Surgical Anatomy.—The inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament, by supporting the head of the astragalus, is principally concerned in maintaining the arch of the foot, and, when * Mr. Hancock describes an extension of this ligament upwards on the inner side of the foot, which completes the socket of the joint in that direction. Lancet, 1866, vol. i. p. 618.