13 CONNECTIVE TISSUES 2. Endothelium.—As before stated, endothelial cells are flattened, transparent, squamous cells, attached by their margins by a semi-fluid homogeneous cement- substance, so as to form a continuous endothelial membrane. Though for the most part these cells are squamous, in some places cells may be found, either isolated or occurring in patches, which are polyhedral or even columnar. These latter cells are frequently to be found lining the stomata of serous membranes, and are supposed to be endothelial cells in an active state of division (fig. 12). As a rule, the endothelial cells are polygonal in outline, with sinuous or jagged margins, and are in close apposition ; the amount of cohesive matter uniting them being so slight as not to be apparent. Their protoplasmic substance appears to be granular, but consists of fibrillae arranged in a network in which the nucleus is contained, limited by a membrane and having a well-developed reticulum. CONNECTIVE TISSUES By the term connective tissue we mean a number of tissues which possess this feature in common, viz. that they serve the general purpose in the animal economy of supporting and connecting the tissues of the frame. These tissues may differ considerably from each other in external appearance, but they present nevertheless many points of relationship with each other, and are moreover developed from the same embryonal elements. They are divided into three great groups: (i) the fibrous connective tissues, (2) cartilage, and (3) bone. The fibrous connective tissues.—Three principal forms or varieties of fibrous connective tissue are recognised :—(i) White fibrous tissue. (2) Yellow elastic tissue. (3) Areolar tissue. They are all composed of a matrix in which cells are embedded, and between the cells are fibres of two kinds, the white and yellow or elastic. The difterence between the three forms of tissue depends on the relative proportion of the two kinds of fibre, in the first variety enumerated the luhite fibre preponderating ; in the second variety the yelloio elastic fibres being greatly in excess of the white; and in the third form, areolar tissue, the two being blended in much more equal proportions. The white fibrous tissue (fig. 13) is a true connecting structure, and serves three purposes in the animal economy. It serves to bind bones together in the form of ligaments, it serves to connect muscles to bones or other structures in the form of tendons, and it forms an invest- ing or protecting structure to various organs in the form of membranes. Examples of where it serves this latter office are to be found in the muscular fasciae or sheaths, the periosteum, and perichondrium ; the investments of the various glands (such as the tunica albuginea testis, the capsule of the kidney, &c.), the investing sheath of the nerves (epineurium), and of various organs, as the penis and the eye (sheath of the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum and of the sclerotic). But in all these parts the student must bear in mind that the elastic tissue enters in greater or less proportion. It |)resents to the naked eye the appearance of silvery white glistening fibres, covered over with a quantity of loose, flocculent tissue which binds the fibres together and carries the blood-vessels. It is not possessed of any elasticity, and only the very slightest extensibility; it is ex- ceedingly strong, so that upon the application of any external violence the bone with which it is connected will fracture before the fibrous tissue will give way. When examined under the microscope it is found to consist of waving bands or bundles of minute, transparent, homogeneous filaments or fibrillae, held together by an