169 PALATE BONE Maxillary surface Superior meatus Spheno-palatine for. and a little inwards. It presents two surfaces, an external and an internal, and four borders. The internal surface presents at its lower part a broad, shallow depression, which forms part of the inferior meatus of the nose. Immediately above this is a well-marked, horizontal ridge, the inferior turhi- Fig. 161.—Left palate bone. Liternal view. (Enlarged.) netted crest, for articula- tion with the inferior tur- binated bone; above this, a second broad, shallow de- pression, which forms part of the middle meatus, sur- mounted abc^'e by a hori- zontal ridge less prominent than the inferior, the superior turbinated crest, for articulation with the middle turbinated bone. Above the superior turbi- nated crest is a narrow, horizontal groove, which forms part of the superior meatus. The external surface is rough and irregular throughout the greater part of its extent, for articulation with the inner surface of the superior maxillary bone, its upper and back part being smooth where it enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fossa; it is also smooth in front, where it covers the orifice of the antrum. Towards the back part of this surface is a deep groove, converted into a canal, the posterior palatine, by its articulation with the superior maxillary bone. It transmits the posterior or descending palatine vessels, descending palatine branches from Maxillary process HORIZONTAL PLATE and one of the Meckel's ganglion. Fig. 162.—Left palate bone. (Enlarged.) Posterior view. Spheno-palatine foramen Sphenoidal process Articular portioji Non-articular portion EXTERNAL SUBFACE The anterior border is thin, irregular, and presents, opposite the inferior turbinated crest, a pointed, projecting lamina, the maxillary process, which is directed forwards, and closes in the lower and back part of the opening of the antrum. The posterior border (fig. 162) pre- sents a deep groove, the edges of which are serrated for articulation with the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. At the lower part of this border is seen a pyramidal process of bone, the pterygoid process or tuberosity of the palate, which is received into the angular interval between the two pterygoid plates of the sphenoid at their inferior extremity. This process presents at its back part a median groove and two lateral surfaces. The groove is smooth, and forms part of the pterygoid fossa affording attachment to the Internal pterygoid muscle ; whilst the lateral surfaces are rough and uneven, for articulation with the anterior border of each pterygoid AZYCOE UVUL* RIZOMTA L PLATE Posterior nasal spine