376 MUSCLES AND FASCIA ala of the nose ; its most important action is upon the nose, which it dilates to a considerable extent. The action of this muscle produces a marked influence over the countenance, and it is the principal agent in the expression of contempt and disdain. The two Dilatatores nasi enlarge the aperture of the nose. Their action in ordinary breathing is to resist the tendency of the nostrils to close from atmospheric pressure, but in difficult breathing they may be noticed to be in violent action, as well as in some emotions, as anger. The Depressor alse nasi is a direct antagonist of the other muscles of the nose, drawing the ala of the nose downwards, and thereby constricting the aperture of the nares. The Compressor nasi depresses the cartilaginous part of the nose and compresses the alse together. 6. Superior Maxillary Region (fig. 269) Levator labii superioris. Zygomaticus major. Levator anguli oris. Zygomaticus minor. The Levator labii superioris (proprius) is a thin muscle of a quadrilateral form. It arises from the lower margin of the orbit immediately above the infra-orbital foramen, some of its fibres being attached to the superior maxilla, others to the malar bone; its fibres converge to be inserted into the muscular substance of the upper lip. Relations.—By its superficial surface above, with the lower segment of the Orbicularis palpebrarum; below, it is subcutaneous. By its deei^ surface, it conceals the origin of the Compressor nasi and Levator anguli oris muscles, and the infra-orbital vessels and nerve, as they escape from the infra-orbital foramen. The Levator anguli oris arises from the canine fossa, immediately below the infra-orbital foramen ; its fibres incline downwards and a little outwards, to be inserted into the angle of the mouth, intermingling with those of the Zygomaticus major, the Depressor anguli oris, and the Orbicularis. Relations.—By its suijerficial surface, Avith the Levator labii superioris, and the infra-orbital vessels and nerves. By its deep surface, with the superior maxilla, the Buccinator, and the mucous membrane. The Zygomaticus major is a slender fasciculus, which arises from the malar bone, in front of the zygomatic suture, and descending obliquely downwards and inwards, is inserted into the angle of the mouth, where it blends with the fibres of the Levator anguli oris, the Orbicularis oris, and the Depressor anguli oris. Relations.—By its sujjcrficial surface, with the subcutaneous adipose tissue. By its deep surface, with the malar bone, and the Masseter and Buccinator muscles. The Zygomaticus minor arises from the malar bone, immediately behind the maxillary suture, and passing downwards and inwards, is continuous with the Orbicularis oris at the outer margin of the Levator labii superioris. It lies in front of the preceding. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the integument and the Orbicularis palpebrarum above. By its deep) surface, with the Masseter, Buccinator, and Levator anguli oris. Nerves.—This group of muscles is supplied by the facial nerve. Actions.—The Levator labii superioris is the proper elevator of the upper lip, carrying it at the same time a little forwards. It assists in forming the naso-labial ridge, which passes from the side of the nose to the upper lip and gives to the face an expression of sadness. The Levator anguli oris raises the angle of the mouth and assists the Levator labii superioris in producing the naso-labial ridge. The of the lobe of the ear, and the other (a small pointed one) be carried up and down over the nose and forehead, in the middle line, it is easy to find a nodal point of indifference, above which the Occipito-frontal draws the parts upward, and below which the Pyramidalis draws them downward.'—W. W. Keen, M.D,, American edition.