546 ARTEEIES with it. Passing transversely across the clavicular margin of the space, are the suprascapular vessels ; and traversing its upper angle in the same direction, the transversalis colli artery and vein. The external jugular vein runs vertically downwards behind the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, to terminate in the subclavian vein ; it receives the transverse cervical and suprascapular veins, which occasionally form a plexus in front of the artery, and a small vein which crosses the clavicle from the cephalic. The small nerve to the Subclavius muscle also crosses this triangle about its middle. A lymphatic gland is also found in the space. Its floor is formed by the first rib with the first digitation of the Serratus magnus. Internal Carotid Artery The internal carotid artery supplies the anterior part of the brain, the eye, and its ajDpendages, and sends branches to the forehead and nose. Its size, in the adult, is equal to that of the external carotid, though, in the child, it is larger than that vessel. It is remarkable for the number of curvatures that it presents in different parts of its course. In its cervical portion it occasionally presents one or two flexures near the base of the skull, whilst through the rest of its extent it describes a double curvature w^hich resembles the italic letter s placed horizontally. These curvatures most probably diminish the velocity of the current of blood, by increasing the extent of surface over which it moves, and adding to the amount of impediment produced from friction. In considering the course and relations of this vessel, it may be conveniently divided into four portions : a cervical, petrous, cavernous, and cerebral. Cervical Portion.—This portion of the internal carotid commences at the bifurcation of the common carotid, opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and runs perpendicularly upwards, in front of the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrae, to the carotid canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is superficial at its commencement, being contained in the superior carotid triangle, and lying on the same level as the external carotid, but behind that artery, overlapped by the Sterno-mastoid, and covered by the deep fascia, Platysma, and integument: it then passes beneath the parotid gland, being crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and the external carotid and occipital arteries. Higher up, it is separated from the external carotid by the Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the giosso-pharyngeal nerve, and pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric. It is in relation, behind, with the Rectus capitis anticus major, the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and superior laryngeal nerve ; externally, with the internal jugular vein and pneumo- gastric nerve ; internally, with the pharynx, tonsil, the superior laryngeal nerve, and ascending pharyngeal artery. Petrous Portion.—When the internal carotid artery enters the canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, it first ascends a short distance, then curves forwards and inwards, and again ascends as it leaves the canal to enter the cavity of the skull. In this canal, the artery lies at first anterior to the tympanum, from which it is separated by a thin, bony lamella, which is cribriform in the young subject, and often absorbed in old age. It is separated from the bony wall of the carotid canal by a prolongation of dura mater, and is surrounded by filaments of the carotid plexus. Cavernous Portion.—The internal carotid artery, in this part of its course, is situated between the layers of the dura mater forming the cavernous sinus, but covered by the lining membrane of the sinus. It at first ascends to the posterior clinoid process, then passes forwards by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and again curves upwards on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and perforates the dura mater forming the roof of the sinus. In this part of its course it is surrounded by filaments of the sympathetic nerve, and has in relation with it externally the sixth nerve. Cerebral Portion.—Having perforated the dura mater, on the inner side of the