ARTERIES 6o2 the inner side, and behind the artery ; but it occasionally happens that the two common iliac veins are joined on the left instead of the right side, Avhich would add much to the difficulty of an operation in such a case. The common iliac artery may be so short that danger may be apprehended h'om secondary haemorrhage if a ligature is applied to it. It would be preferable, in such a case, to tie both the external and internal iliacs near their origin. Collateral Circulation.—The principal agents in carrying on the collateral circulation after the application of a ligature to the common iliac are: the anastomoses of the hasmorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac with the superior haemorrhoidal from the inferior mesenteric ; the anastomoses of the uterine and ovarian arteries, and of the vesical arteries of opposite sides; of the lateral sacral with the middle sacral artery; of the epigastric with the internal mammary, inferior intercostal, and lumbar arteries ; of the circumflex iliac with the lumbar arteries; of the ilio-lumbar with the last lumbar artery ; of the obturator artery, by means of its pubic branch, with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the deep epigastric. Compression of the Common Iliac Arteries.—The common iliac arteries are most efficiently compressed by Davy's lever. The instrument consists of a gum-elastic tube, about two feet long, in which fits a round wooden ' lever ' considerablj^ longer than the tube. A small quantity of olive oil having been injected into the rectum, the gum-elastic tube, softened in hot water, is passed into the bowel sufficiently far to permit its pressing upon the common iliac artery as it lies in the groove between the last lumbar vertebra and the Psoas muscle. The wooden lever is then inserted into the tube, and the projecting end carried towards the opposite thigh and raised, when it acts as a lever of the first order, the anus being the fulcrum. In cases where the meso-rectum is abnormally short it may be impossible, without unjustifiable force, to compress the artery on the right side. Inteenal Iliac Arteey (fig. 372) The internal iliac artery supplies the walls and viscera of the pelvis, the generative organs, and inner side of the thigh. It is a short, thick vessel, smaller in the adult than the external iliac, and about an inch and a half in length. It arises at the point of bifurcation of the common iliac, and, passing downwards to the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, divides into two large trunks, an anterior and posterior ; from its point of bifurcation a partially obliterated cord, the hypogastric artery, extends forwards to the bladder. Relations.—In front, with the ureter, which separates it from the peritoneum. Behind, with the internal iliac vein, the lumbo-sacral nerve, and Pyriformis muscle. By its outer side, near its origin, with the Psoas magnus muscle. Plan of the Relations of the Inteenal Iliac Aeteey In front. Peritoneum. Ureter. Outer side. Psoas magnus. Behind. Internal iliac vein. Lumbo-sacral nerve. Pyriformis muscle. In the foetus, the internal iliac artery {hypogastric) is twice as large as the external iliac, and appears to be the continuation of the common iliac. Instead of dipping into the pelvis, it passes forwards to the bladder, and ascends along the sides of that viscus to its summit, to which it gives branches ; it then passes upwards along the back part of the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side. Having passed through the umbilical opening, the two arteries twine round the umbilical vein, forming with it the umbilical cord ; and, ultimately, ramify in the placenta. The portion of the