231 RADIUS the bone. At birth the ends are cartilaginous. About the fourth year, a separate osseous nucleus appears in the middle of the head, which soon extends into the styloid process. About the tenth year, ossific matter appears in the olecranon near its extremity, the chief part of this process being formed from an extension of the shaft of the bone into it. At about the sixteenth year, the upper epiphysis becomes joined, and at about the twentieth year the lower one. Articulations.—-With the humerus and radius. Attachment of Muscles.—To sixteen : to the olecranon, the Triceps, Anconeus, and one head of the Flexor carpi ulnaris. To the coronoid process, the Brachialis anticus. Pronator radii teres, Flexor sub- limis digitorum, and Flexor profundus digitorum; generally also the Flexor longus poUicis. To the shaft, the Flexor profundus digitorum. Pronator quadratus. Flexor carpi ulnaris, Extensor carpi ulnaris, Anconeus, Supinator brevis, Ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Extensor longus pollicis, and Extensor indicis. Surface Form,—The most prominent part of the ulna on the surface of the body is the olecranon process, which can always be felt at the back of the elbow-joint. When the forearm is flexed, the upper triangular sur- face can be felt, directed backwards ; during extension it recedes into the olecranon fossa, and the contracting fibres of the triceps prevent its being perceived. At the back of the olecranon is the smooth, triangular, subcutaneous surface, which below is continuous with the jjosterior border of the shaft of the bone ; this is to be felt in every position of the joint. During extension, the upper border of the olecranon is slightly above the level of the internal condyle, and the process itself is nearer to this condyle than the outer one. Eimning down the back of the forearin, h'om the apex of the triangular surface which forms the posterior surface of the olecranon, is a prominent ridge of bone, the posterior border of the ulna. This is to be felt throughout the entire length of the shaft of the bone, from the olecranon above to the styloid process below. As it passes down the forearm it pursues a sinuous course and inclines to the inner side, so that, though it is situated in the middle of the back of the limb above, it is on the inner side of the wrist at its termination. It becomes rounded otf in its lower third, and may be traced below to the small, subcutaneous surface of the styloid process. Internal to this border the lower fourth of the internal surface is to be felt. The styloid process is to be felt as a prominent tubercle of bone, continuous above with the posterior subcutaneous border of the ulna, and terminating below in a blunt apex, which lies a little internal, and behind, but on a level with, the wrist-joint. The styloid process is best felt when the hand is in the same line as the bones of the forearm, and in a position midway between supination and pronation. If the forearm is pronated while the finger is placed on the process, it will be felt to recede, and another prominence of bone will appear iust external and above it. This is the head of the ulna, which articulates with tiie lower end of the radius and the triangular interarticidar fibro-cartilage, and now projects between the tendons of the Extensor carpi ulnaris and the Extensor minimi digiti muscles. The Eadius The Radius (radius, a ray, or spoke of a tvheel) is situated on the outer side of the forearm, lying side by side with the ulna, which exceeds it in length and size. Its upper end is small, and forms only a small part of the elbow-joint; but its low^er end is large, and forms the chief part of the wrist. It is one of the long bones, prismatic in form, slightly curved longitudinally, and, like other long bones, has a shaft and two extremities. Fig. 202.—^Plan of the development of the ulna. By three centres. Olecranon Appears at '^"'"'^ shaft at tenth ijear sixtecatli, ijear Appears at- fourth year Joins shaft at twentieth year Inferior extremity