SCAPULA 219 the first year after birth, ossification talies place in the middle of the coracoid process, which usually becomes joined with the rest of the bone at the time when the other centres make their appearance. Between the fifteenth and seventeenth years, ossification of the remaining centres takes place in quick succession, and in the following order: first, near the base of the acromion and in the root of the coracoid process, the latter appearing in the form of a broad scale ; secondly, in the inferior angle and contiguous part of the posterior border ; thirdly, near the extremity of the acromion ; fourthly, in the posterior border. The acromion process, besides being formed of two separate nuclei, has its base formed by an extension into it of the centre of ossification which belongs to the spine, the extent of w^hich varies in different cases. The two separate nuclei unite, and then join wdth the extension carried in from the spine. These various epiphyses become joined to the bone between the ages of twenty-two and twenty- five years. Sometimes failure of union between the acromion process and spine occurs, the junction being effected by fibrous tissue, or by an imperfect articulation; in some cases of supposed fracture of the acromion with ligamentous union, it is probable that the detached segment was never united to the rest of the bone. Very often, in addition to these, a minute epiphysis appears at the margin of the glenoid cavity. Articulations.—With the humerus and clavicle. Attachment of Muscles.—To seventeen : to the anterior surface, the Subscapu- laris; posterior surface, Supraspinatus, Infraspinatus; spine. Trapezius, Deltoid ; superior border, Omo-hyoid; vertebral border, Serratus magnus, Levator anguli scapulae, Ehomboideus minor and major; axillary border, Triceps, Teres minor. Teres major ; glenoid cavity, long head of the Biceps; coracoid process, short head of the Biceps, Coraco-brachialis, Pectoralis minor; and to the inferior angle occasionally a few fibres of the Latissimus dorsi. Surface Form.—The only parts of the scapula which are truly subcutaneous are the spine and acromion process, but, in addition to these, the coracoid process, the internal or vertebral border and inferior angle, and, to a less extent, the axillary border, may be defined. The acromion process and spine of the scapula are easily felt throughout their entire length, forming, with the clavicle, the arch of the shoulder. The acromion can be ascertained to be connected to the clavicle at the acroniio-clavicular joint by running the finger along it, its position being often indicated by an irregularity or bony outgrowth from the clavicle close to the joint. The acromion can be felt forming the point of the shoulder, and from this can be traced backwards to join the spine of the scapula. The place of junction is usuaUy denoted by a prominence, which is sometimes called the angle. From here the spme can be felt as a prominent ridge of bone, marked on the surface as an oblique depression, which becomes less and less distinct and terminates a little external to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. Its termination is usually indicated by a slight dimple in the skin, on a level with the interval between the third and fourth dorsal spines. Below this point the vertebral border of the scapula may be traced, running downwards and outwards, and thus diverging from the vertebral spines, to the inferior angle of the bone, which can be recognised, although covered by the Latissimus dorsi muscle. From this angle the axillary border can usually be traced through its thick muscular covering, forming, with the muscles, the posterior fold of the axiUa. The coracoid process may be felt about an inch below the junction of the middle and outer third of the clavicle. Its position is indicated on the surface of the body b}^ a slight depression, which corresponds to the interval between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid muscles. When the arms are hangmg by the side, the upper angle of the scapula corresponds to the upper border of the second rib or the interval between the first and second dorsal spines, the inferior angle to the upper border of the eighth rib or the interval between the seventh and eighth dorsal spines. Surgical Anatomy.—Fractm^es of the body of the scapula are rare, owing to the mobility of the bone, the thick layer of muscles by which it is encased on both sm^faces, and the elasticity of the ribs on which it rests. Fracture of the neck of the bone is also micommon. The most frequent course of the fi^acture is from the suprascapular notch to the infra- glenoid tubercle, and it derives its principal interest fi-om its simidation to a subglenoid dislocation of the humerus. The diagnosis can be made by noting the alteration in the position of the coracoid process. A fi'actm-e of the neck external to and not including the coracoid process is said to occm", but it is exceedin^^ly doubtfid whether sneh an accident ever takes place. The acromion process is more frequently broken than ;ui\- other part of the bone, and there is sometimes, in yomig subjects, a separation of the epipiiysis. It is