653 OF THE LOWEE EXTREMITY cnemius muscle.* Fig. 391.—The internal or long saphenous vein and its branches. Fig 392.—External or short saphe- nous vein. It receives numerous large tributaries from the back part of the leg, and communicates with the deep veins on the dorsum of the foot, and behind the outer malleolus. Before it perforates the deep fascia, it gives off a communicating branch, which passes upwards and inwards to join the in- ternal saphenous vein. This vein has a variable number of valves, from three to nine (Gay), one of which is always found near its termination in the pop- liteal vein. The external saphenous nerve lies close beside this vein. Surgical Anatomy.— The saphena veins are of con- siderable surgical import- ance, since a varicose condi- tion of these vessels is more frequently met with than those in other parts of the body, except perhaps the spermatic and heemorrhoidal veins. The course of the in- ternal saphenous is in front of the tip of the malleolus, over the subcutaneous sur- face of the lower end of the tibia, and then along the internal border of this bone, to the back part of the in- ternal condyle of the femur, whence it follows the course of the Sartorius muscle and is represented on the surface by a line drawn from the posterior border of the Sar- torius on a level with the internal condyle to the saph- enous opening. The short saphenous lies behind the external malleolus, and from this follows the middle line of the calf to just below the ham. It is not generally so apparent beneath the skin as the internal saphenous. Both these veins in the leg are accompanied by nerves, the internal saphenous being joined by its companion nerve just below the level of the knee-joint. No doubt much of the pain of varicose veins in the leg is due to this fact. On the Continent the internal saphenous vein as it rests on the tibia just above the malleolus is sometimes selected for venesection. The Deep Veins of the Lower Extremity ac- company the arteries and their branches, and are called the vence comites of those vessels. * Mr. Gay calls attention to the fact that the ex- ternal saphenous vein often (he says invariably) pene- trates the fascia at or about the point where the tendon of the Gastrocnemius commences, and runs below the fascia in the rest of its course, or sometimes among the muscular fibres, to join the popliteal vein. See Gay on Varicose Disease of the Lower Extremities, p. 24, where there is also a careful and elaborate description of the branches of the saphena veins.