ARCH OF AORTA 523 two branches. Of these, one passes transversely outwards in the left auriculo- ventricular groove, and winds around the left border of the heart to its posterior surface, where it anastomoses with the transverse branch of the right coronary ; the other descends along the anterior interventricular groove to the apex of the heart, where it anastomoses with the descending branches of the right coronary. The left coronary supplies the left auricle and its appendix, both ventricles, and numerous small branches to the pulmonary artery, and commencement of the aorta.* Peculiarities.—These vessels occasionally arise by a common trunk, or their number may be increased to three ; the additional branch being of small size. More rarely, there are two additional branches. Arch of the Aokta The arch, or transverse aorta, commences at the upper border of the second chondro-sternal articulation of the right side, and passes from right to left, and from before backwards, to the left side of the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra behind. Its upper border is usually about an inch below the upper margin of the sternum. Relations.—Its anterior surface is covered by the pleurae and lungs and the remains of the thymus gland, and crossed towards the left side by the left pneumo- gastric and phrenic nerves, and superior cardiac branches of the left sympathetic, and by the left superior intercostal vein. Its jmsterior surface lies on the trachea, just above its bifurcation, on the great, or deep, cardiac plexus, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Its upi^er border is in relation with the left innominate vein ; and from its upper part are given off the innominate, left.common carotid, and left subclavian arteries. Its lower border is in relation with the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, the remains of the ductus arteriosus, which is connected with the left division of that vessel, and the superficial cardiac plexus ; the left recurrent laryngeal nerve winds round it from before backwards, whilst the left bronchus passes below it. PCAN OF THE Relations of the Arch of the Aorta Behind. Trachea. Deep cardiac plexus. (Esox3hagus. Thoracic duct. Left recurrent nerve. Bifurcation of pulmonary artery. Kemains of ductus arteriosus. Superficial cardiac plexus. Left recurrent nerve. Left bronchus. Peculiarities.—The height to which the aorta rises in the chest is usually about an inch below the upper border of the sternum ; biit it may ascend nearly to the top of that bone. Occasionally it is found an inch and a half, more rarely two or even three inches below this point. In Dii^ection.—Sometimes the aorta arches over the root of the right instead of the left * According to Dr. Samuel West, there is a very free and complete anastomosis between the two coronary arteries {Lancet, June 2, 1883, p. 945). This, however, is not the view generally held by anatomists, for, with the exception of the anastomosis men- tioned above in the auriculo-ventricular and interventricular grooves, it is believed that the two arteries only communicate by very small vessels in the substance of the heart. Above. Left innominate vein. Innominate artery. Left carotid. Left subclavian. In front. Pleurae and lungs. / \ Remains of thymus gland. / Arch of Aorta. \ Left pneumogastric nerve. Transverse Left phrenic nerve. \ / Left superior cardiac nerves. \ / Left superior intercostal vein. \^ Below.