737 THIRD NERVE. MOTOR OCULI tracts.* They may be regarded as commissural fibres between the two retinae {inter-retinal fibres). The outer fibres of each tract are contmued into the optic nerve of the same side. The central fibres of each tract are continued into the optic nerve of the opposite side, decussating in the commissure with similar fibres of the opposite tract, f The optic nerves arise from the fore part of the commissure, and, diverging from one another, become rounded in form and firm in texture, and are enclosed in a sheath derived from the arachnoid. As each nerve passes through the correspond- ing optic foramen, it receives a sheath from the dura mater ; and as it enters the orbit this sheath subdivides into two layers, one of which becomes continuous with the periosteum of the orbit; the other forms the proper sheath of the nerve, and surrounds it as far as the sclerotic. The nerve passes through the cavity of the orbit, pierces the sclerotic and choroid coats at the back part of the eyeball, a little to the nasal side of its centre, and expands into the retina. Arnold describes a communi- cation between the optic nerve in the orbit and the ascending branches of Meckel's ganglion. A small artery, the arteria centralis retincB, perforates the optic nerve a little behind the globe, and runs along its interior in a tubular canal of fibrous tissue. It supplies the inner surface of the retina, and is accompanied by corresponding veins. Surgical Anatomy.—The optic nerve is peculiarly liable to become the seat of neuritis or undergo atrophy in affections of the central nervous system, and as a rule the patho- logical relationship between the two affections is exceedingly difficult to trace. There are, however, certain points in connection with the anatomy of this nerve which tend to throw light upon the frequent association of these afi'ections with intracranial disease : (i) From its mode of development (see page 91), and from its structure, the optic nerve must be regarded as a prolongation of the brain-substance, rather than as' an ordinary cerebro-spinal nerve. (2) As it passes from the brain, it receives sheaths from the three cerebral membranes, a perineural sheath from the pia mater ; an intermediate sheath from the arachnoid, and an outer sheath from the dura mater, which is also connected with the periosteum, as it passes through the optic foramen. These sheaths are separated from each other hj spaces, which communicate with the subdural and subarachnoid spaces respectively. The innermost or perineural sheath sends a process around the arteria centralis retinee into the interior of the nerve, and enters intimately into the structure of the nerve. Thus inflammatory affections of the meninges or of the brain may readily extend themselves along these spaces, or along the interstitial connective tissue in the nerve. The course of the fibres in the optic commissure has an important pathological bearing, and has been the subject of much controversy. Microscopic examination, experiments, and pathology all seem to point to the fact that there is a partial decussation of the fibres, each tract supplying the corresponding half of each eye, so that the right tract supplies the right half of each eye, and the left tract the left half of each eye. At the same time Charcot believes, and his view has met with general acceptation, that the fibres which do not decussate at the optic commissure have already decussated in the corpora quadrigemina, so that lesion of the cerebral centre of one side causes complete blindness of the opposite eye, because both sets of decussating fibres are destroyed. Whereas should one tract, say the right, be destroyed by disease, there will be blindness of the right half of both retinae. An antero-posterior section through the commissure would divide the decussating fibres, and would therefore produce blindness of the inner half of each eye ; while a section at the margin of the side of the optic commissure would produce blindness of the external half of the retina of the same side. The optic nerve may also be affected in injuries or diseases involving the orbit; in fractures of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull; in tumours of the orbit itself, or those invading this cavity fi^om neighbouring parts. Third Nerve (figs. 440, 441, 442) The Third or Motor Oculi Nerve supplies all the muscles of the orbit, except the Superior oblique and External rectus ; it also sends motor filaments to the iris and the ciliary muscle. It is a rather large nerve, of rounded form and firm texture. * The presence of these fibres has been doubted by some observers, but they have been recently asserted to exist by Stilling. t A specimen of congenital absence of the optic commissure is to be found in the Museum of the Westminster Hospital. See also Henle, Ne7^venlehre, p. 393, ed. 2. 3B