GENEEAL ANATOMY 96 these in their turn become also vacuolated and, communicating with the cavities in the original cells, a network of tubes is produced (fig. 96). The tubes or primary vessels consist in the first instance of the original protoplasm of the cell, with here and there nuclei, derived from the original divided nucleus embedded in it. Then difierentiation of the protoplasm Fig. 96.—Various forms of mother-cells undergoing development into blood-vessels, from the middle layer of the chick's blasto- derm. (Klein.) a. Large mother-cell vacuolated, forming tlie rudimentary vessel, h. The wall of this cell formed of protoplasm, with nuclei embedded, and in some cases more or less detached and projecting, c. Processes connected with neighbouring cells, formed of the common cellular substance of the germinal area. d. Blood-corpiTscles. /. Small mother-cells — vacuolation commencing. B. Mother-cell in which only obscure granular matter is found. into flattened cells around these nuclei takes place and constitutes the wall of the capillary or the lining mem- brane of the larger vessel. In these latter, other cells, derived from the mesoblast, apply themselves externally and form the other coats of the vessel at a later period. The blood-discs are formed from the original divided nucleus of the vacuolated mesoblastic cells. They are free, and accumulate, each one around itself, a small quantity of the proto- plasm of the cell, which rapidly acquires a tinge of colour. The earliest blood- corpuscles are therefore at first nucle- ated, and in this and other respects resemble the white corpuscles. As soon, however, as the liver is formed, true white corpuscles make their ap- pearance, and it seems that the chief source from which they are derived is the embryonic liver, though later on the spleen and lymphatic glands take up this function and continue it after birth. The nucleated condition of the red globules ceases before birth. The precise mode in which the nucleated white corpuscle is converted into the non-nucleated red blood-globule, whether by a change in the whole cell or by the disappearance of the cell and persistence of its nucleus, is not yet ascertained. The vitelline circulation commences about the fifteenth day and lasts till the fifth week. When fully established it is carried on as fol- lows :—Proceeding from the tubular heart are two arteries, the first aortic arteries (fig. 97), which unite at some distance from the heart into a single artery. This runs down in front of the primitive vertebne and in the walls of the in- testinal cavity, and again divides into two tive aortcE or vertebral arteries, and these give off five or six omphalo-mesenteric arteries, which ramify in that part of the blastoderm which surrounds the developing body of the embryo and which is known as the vascular area. They terminate peripherally in a circular vessel—the terminal sinus. This vessel surrounds the vas- cular portion of the germinal area, but does not extend up to the anterior end of the embryo. It terminates on either side in a vein called the omplialo-mesenteric. The two omphalo-mesen- teric veins open into the opposite extremity of the heart to that from which the arteries proceeded. 2. The Placental Circulation.—As the umbilical vesicle diminishes, the allantois, w^hich is formed by a protrusion from the lower part of the intestine, enlarges and becomes converted into a vascular chorion, a part of w^hich forms the placenta. Fig. 97.—Heart at the fifth week. A. Opened from the abdominal aspect, i. Arterial sinus. 2. Aortic arches uniting behind to form the descending aorta. 3. Auricle. 4. Auriculo-ventricular orifice. 5. Commencing septum ventriculorum. 6. Ventricle. 7. Inferior vena cava. B. Pos- terior view of the same. i. Trachea. 2. Lungs. 3. Ventricles. 4, 5. Auricles. 6. Diaphragm. 7. Descending aorta. ^, 9, 10. Pueumogastric nerves and their branches.