THE SKELETON 122 transversely outwards in the upper three hmibar vertebrae, slanting a little upwards in the lower two. They are situated in front of the articular processes instead of behind them as in the dorsal vertebrae, and are homologous with the ribs. Of the three tubercles noticed in connection with the transverse processes of the twelfth dorsal vertebra, the superior ones become connected in this region with the back part of the superior articular processes, and have received the name of mammillary processes ; the inferior are represented by a small process pointing downwards, situated at the back part of the base of the transverse process, and called the accessory processes—these are .the true transverse processes, which are rudimental in this region of the spine ; the external ones are the so-called transverse processes, the homologue of the rib, and hence sometimes called costal processes. Although in man these are comparatively small, in some animals they attain considerable size, and serve to lock the vertebrae more closely together. The Fifth Lumbar vertebra is characterised by having the body much thicker in front than behind, which accords with the prominence of the sacro-vertebral articulation ; by the smaller size of its spinous process ; by the wide interval between the inferior articulating processes ; and by the greater size and thickness of its trans- verse processes^ Structure of the Vertebrae.—The structure of a vertebra differs in different parts. The body is composed of light, spongy, cancellous tissue, having a thin Fig. 115.—Lumbar vertebra. coating of compact tissue on its external surface perforated by numerous orifices, some of large size, for the passage of vessels ; its interior is traversed by one or two large canals, for the reception of veins, which converge towards a single large, irregular aperture, or several small apertures, at the posterior part of the body of each bone. The arch and processes projecting from it have, on the contrary, an exceedingly thick covering of compact tissue. Development.—Each vertebra is formed of four primary cartilaginous portions (fig. 116), one for each lamina and its processes, and two for the body. Ossification commences in the laminae about the sixth week of foetal life, in the situation where the transverse processes afterwards project, the ossific granules shooting backwards to the spine, forwards into the pedicles, and outwards into the transverse and articular processes. Ossification in the body commences in the middle of the cartilage about the eighth week by two closely approximated centres, which speedily coalesce to form one central ossific point. According to some authors, ossifica- tion commences in the laminae, only in the upper vertebrae—i.e. in the cervical and upper dorsal. The first ossific points in the lower vertebra? are those which are to form the body, the osseous centres for the laminae appearing at a subsequent period. At birth these three pieces are perfectly separate. During the first year the laminae become united behind by a portion of cartilage in which the spinous process is