859 THE AUDITORY CANAL temporal bone. The cartilage is deficient at its upper and back part, its place being supplied by fibrous membrane. This part of the canal is rendered extremely movable by two or three deep fissures {incisures, Santorini), which extend through the cartilage in a vertical direction. The osseous portion is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and narrower than the cartilaginous portion.. It is directed inwards and a little forwards, forming a slight curve in its course, the convexity of which is upwards and back- wards. Its inner end, which communicates, in the dry bone, with the cavity of the tympanum, is smaller than the outer and sloped, the anterior wall projecting beyond the posterior about two lines; it is marked, except at its upper part, by a narrow groove for the insertion of the membrana tympani. Its outer end is dilated, and rough, in the greater part of its circumference, for the attachment of the cartilage of the pinna. Its vertical transverse section is oval, the greatest diameter being from above downwards. The front and lower parts of this canal are formed by a curved plate of bone, which, in the foetus, exists as a separate ring (tympanic plate), incomplete at its upper part. Fig. 501.—A front view of the organ of hearing. Eight side. The shin lining the meatus is very thin, adheres closely to the cartilaginous and osseous portion of the tube, and covers the surface of the membrana tympani, forming its outer layer. After maceration, the thin pouch of epidermis, when withdrawn, preserves the form of the meatus. In the thick subcutaneous tissue of the cartilaginous part of the meatus are numerous ceruminous glands, which secrete the ear-wax. They resemble in structure sweat-glands, and their ducts open on the surface of the skin. The arteries supplying the meatus are branches from the posterior auricular, internal maxillary, and temporal. The nerves are chiefly derived from the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. Surf ace Form.—At the point of junction of the osseous and cartilaginous portions, the tube forms an obtuse angle, which projects into the tube at its antero-inferior wall. This produces a sort of constriction in this situation, and renders it the narrowest portion of the canal—an important point to be borne in mind in connection with the presence of foreign bodies in the ears. The cartilaginous is connected to the bony part by fibrous tissue, which renders the outer part of the tube very movable, and therefore by drawing the pinna upwards and backwards the canal is rendered almost straight. At the external orifice are a few shori, crisp hairs, which serve to prevent the entrance of small particles of dust, or flies or other insects. In the external auditory meatus the secretion of the ceru- minous glands serves to catch any small particles which may find their way into the canal, and prevent their reaching the membrana tympani, where their presence'might excite