427 OF THE ABDOMEN of the OS pubis and the hnea iUo-pectinea. In the median hne, it interlaces with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle, forming the linea alba, which extends from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis pubis. That portion of the aponeurosis which extends between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the os pubis is a broad band, folded inwards, and continuous below with the fascia lata ; it is called Poupart's ligament. The portion Avhich is reflected from Poupart's ligament at the spine of the os pubis along the pectineal line is called GimhernaVs ligament. From the point of attach- ment of the latter to the pectineal line, a few fibres pass upwards and inwards, behind the inner pillar of the ring, to the linea alba. They diverge as they ascend, and form a thin, triangular, fibrous band, which is called the triangular ligament of the abdomen. In the aponeurosis of the External oblique, immediately above the crest of the OS pubis, is a triangular opening, the external abdominal ring, formed by a separation of the fibres of the aponeurosis in this situation. Relations.—By its external surface, with the superficial fascia, superficial epigastric and circumflex iliac vessels, and some cutaneous nerves. By its internal surface, with the Internal oblique, the lower part of the eight inferior ribs, and Intercostal muscles, the Cremaster, the spermatic cord in the male, and round ligament in the female. Its jwsterior border, extending from the last rib to the crest of the ilium, is fleshy throughout and free; it is occasionally overlapped by the Latissimus dorsi, though generally a triangular interval exists between the two muscles near the crest of the ilium in. which is seen a portion of the internal oblique. This triangle, Petit's triangle, is therefore bounded in front by the External obhque, behind by the Latissimus dorsi, below by the crest of the ihum, while its floor is formed by the Internal oblique (fig. 287). The following parts of the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle require to be further described, viz. the external abdominal ring, the intercolumnar fibres and fascia, Poupart's ligament, Gimbernat's Hgament, and the triangular ligament of the abdomen. The External Abdominal Ring.—Just above, and to the outer side of the crest of the OS pubis, an interval is seen in the aponeurosis of the External oblique, called the External abdominal ring. The aperture is oblique in direction, somewhat triangular in form, and corresponds with the course of the fibres of the aponeurosis. It usually measures from base to apex about an inch, and transversely about half an inch. It is bounded below by the crest of the os pubis ; above, by a series of curved fibres, the intercolumnar, which pass across the upper angle of the ring, so as to increase its strength; and on each side, by the margins of the opening in the aponeurosis, which are called the columns or pillars of the ring. The external pillar, which is at the same time inferior from the obliquity of its direction, is the stronger : it is formed by that portion of Poupart's ligament which is inserted into the spine of the os pubis ; it is curved so as to form a kind of groove, upon which the spermatic cord rests. The internal or superior pillar is a broad, thin, flat band which is attached to the front of the symphysis pubis, interlacing with its fellow of the opposite side, that of the right side being superficial. The external abdominal ring gives passage to the spermatic cord in the male, and round ligament in the female : it is much larger in men than in women, on account of the large size of the spermatic cord, and hence the greater frequency of inguinal hernia in men. The intercolumnar fibres are a series of curved tendinous fibres, which arch across the lower part of the aponeurosis of the External oblique. They have received their name from stretching across between the two pillars of the external ring, describing a curve with the convexity downwards. They are much thicker and stronger at the outer margin of the external ring, where they are connected to the outer third of Poupart's ligament, than internally, where they are inserted into the linea alba. They are more strongly developed in the male than in the