433 OF THE ABDOMEN lumbar fascia, which separates it from the Erector spin^e. The Qnadratus lumbormii extends, however, beyond the outer border of the Erector spinaB. Nerves.—The abdominal muscles are supplied by the lower intercostal nerves. The Internal oblique also receives a filament from the ilio-inguinal nerve. The Cremaster is supplied by the genital branch of the Genito-crural. In the description of the abdominal muscles, mention has frequently been made of the linea alba, lineae semilunares, and linec^ transversae; when the dissection of the muscles is completed, these structures should be examined. The linea alba is a tendinous raphe seen along the middle line of the abdomen, extending from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis pubis, to which it is attached. It is placed between the inner borders of the Recti muscles, and is formed by the blending of the aponeuroses of the Obliqui and Transversales muscles. It is narrow below, corresponding to the narrow interval existing between the Becti; but broader above, as these muscles diverge from one another in their ascent, becoming of considerable breadth after great distension of the abdomen from pregnancy or ascites. It presents numerous apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves ; the largest of these is the umbilicus, which in the foetus transmits the umbilical vessels, but in the adult is obliterated, the cicatrix being stronger than Fig. 295.—A transverse section of the abdomen in the lumbar region. the neighbouring parts; hence umbilical hernia occurs in the adult near the umbilicus, whilst in the foetus it occurs at the umbilicus. The linea alba is in relation, in front, with the integument, to which it is adherent, especially at the umbilicus ; behind, it is separated from the peritoneum by the transversalis fascia ; and below, by the urachus, and the bladder when that organ is distended. The linese semilunares are two curved tendinous lines placed one on each side of the linea alba. Each corresponds with the outer border of the Rectus muscle, extends from the cartilage of the ninth rib to the pubic spine, and is formed by the apo- neurosis of the Internal oblique at its point of division to enclose the Rectus, where it is reinforced in front by the External oblique, and behind by the Transversalis. The lineae transversae are three narrow transverse lines which intersect the Recti muscles, as already mentioned; they connect the lineae semilunares with the linea alba. Actions.—The abdominal muscles perform a threefold action. When the pelvis and thorax are fixed, they compress the abdominal viscera, by constricting the cavity of the abdomen, in which action they are materially assisted by the descent of the diaphragm. By these means the foetus is expelled from the uterus, the faeces from the rectum, the urine from the bladder, and the contents of the stomach in vomiting. If the pelvis and spine are fixed, these muscles compress the lower part of the F F