545 POSTEEIOR TRIANGLE OF THE NECK middle line of the neck. It is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia; ramifying between which are branches of the facial and ascending filaments of the superficial cervical nerves. Its floor is formed by the anterior belly of the Digastric, the Mylo-hyoid, and Hyo-glossus muscles. This space contains, in front, the submaxillary gland, imbedded in the sub- stance of which are the facial artery and vein, and their glandular branches ; beneath this gland, on the surface of the Mylo-hyoid muscle, are the submental artery and the mylo-hyoid artery and nerve. The back part of this space is sepa- rated from the front part by the stylo-maxillary ligament; it contains the external carotid artery, ascending deeply in the substance of the parotid gland ; this vessel here lies in front of, and superficial to, the internal carotid, being crossed by the facial nerve, and gives off in its course the posterior auricular, temporal, and internal maxillary branches: more deeply are the internal carotid, the internal jugular vein, and the pneuniogastric nerve, separated from the external carotid by the Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and the giosso-pharyngeal nerve.* PosTEEioE Triangle of the Neck The posterior triangle is bounded, in front, by the Sterno-mastoid muscle; behind, by the anterior margin of the Trapezius ; its base corresponds to the upper border of the clavicle; its apex, to the occiput. The space is crossed, about an inch above the clavicle, by the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, which divides it unequally into two, an upper or occipital, and a lower or subclavian, triangle. The Occipital, the larger of the two posterior triangles, is bounded, in front, by the Sterno-mastoid; behind, by the Trapezius; below, by the Omo-hyoid. Its floor is formed from above downwards by the Splenius, Levator anguli scapulae, and the middle and posterior Scaleni muscles. It'is covered by the integument, the Platysma below, the superficial and dee]D fasciae, and by the spinal accessory nerve which is directed obliquely across the space from the Sterno-mastoid, which it pierces, to the under surface of the Trapezius; below, the descending branches of the cervical plexus and the transversalis colli artery and vein cross the space. A chain of lymphatic glands is also found running along the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, from the mastoid process to the root of the neck. The Subclavian, the smaller of the two posterior triangles, is bounded, above, by the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid; below, by the clavicle ; its base, directed forwards, being formed by the Sterno-mastoid. The size of the subclavian triangle varies according to the extent of attachment of the clavicular portion of the Sterno-mastoid and Trapezius muscles, and also according to the height at which the Omo-hyoid crosses the neck above the clavicle. Its height also varies much, according to the position of the arm, being much diminished by raising the limb, on account of the ascent of the clavicle, and increased by drawing-the arm down- wards, when that bone is depressed. This space is covered by the integument, superficial and deep fasciae; and crossed by the descending branches of the cervical plexus. Just above the level of the clavicle, the third portion of the subclavian artery curves outwards and downwards from the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus, across the first rib, to the axilla. Sometimes this vessel rises as high as an inch and a half above the clavicle, or to any point intermediate between this and its usual level. Occasionally, it passes in front of the Scalenus anticus, or pierces the fibres of that muscle. The subclavian vein lies behind the clavicle, and is usually not seen in this space ; but it occasionally rises as high up as the artery, and has even been seen to pass with that vessel behind the Scalenus anticus. The brachial plexus of nerves lies above the artery, and in close contact * The same remark will apply to this triangle as was made about the inferior carotid triangle. The structures enumerated as contained in the back part of the space lie, strictly speaking, beneath the muscles which form the posterior boundary of the triangle; but as it is very important to bear in mind their close relation to the parotid gland and its boundaries (on account of the frequency of surgical operations on this gland), all these parts are spoken of together. N N