THE URINARY ORGANS ioo6 around the snprarenals. The smaller of these, on section, show a uniform surface, but in some of the larger a distinct medulla can be made out. Structure.—On making a perpendicular section, the gland is seen to consist of two substances—external or cortical, and internal or medullary. The former, w^hich constitutes the chief part of the organ, is of a deep yellow colour. The medullary substance is soft, pulpy, and of a dark brown or black colour, whence the name atrahiliary cajjstiles formerly given to these organs. In the centre is often seen a space, not natural, but formed by the breaking down after death of the medullary substance. The cortical portion consists chiefly of narroW' columnar masses, placed perpen- dicularly to the surface. This arrangement is due to the disposition of the capsule, which sends into the interior of the gland processes, passing in vertically and communicating viiih each other by transverse bands, so as to form spaces which open into each other. These spaces are of slight depth near the surface of the organ, so that there the section somewhat resembles a net; this is termed the zona glomerulosa ; but they become much deeper or longer further in, so as to resemble pipes or tubes placed endwise, the zona fascicidata. Still deeper down, near the medullary part, the spaces become again of small extent ; this is named the zojia reticularis. These processes, or trabeculse, derived from the capsule and forming the framework of the spaces, are composed of fibrous connective tissue, with longitudinal bundles of unstriped muscular fibres. Within the interior of the spaces are contained groups of polyhedral cells, which are finely granular in appearance, and contain a spherical nucleus, and not unfrequently fat molecules. These groups of cells do not entirely fill the spaces in which they are contained, but between them and the trabecule of the framework is a channel, which is believed to be a lymph path or sinus, and which communicates wdth certain passages between the cells composing the group. The lymph path is supposed to open into a plexus of efferent lymphatic vessels which are contained in the capsule. In the medullary portion, the fibrous stroma seems to be collected together into a much closer arrangement, and forms bundles of connective tissue which are loosely applied to the large plexus of veins of which this part of the organ mainly consists. In the insterstices lie a number of cells compared by Frey to those of columnar epithehum. They are coarsely granitlar, do not contain any fat molecules, and some of them are branched. Luschka has affirmed that these branches are connected with the nerve-fibres of a very intricate plexus which is foimd in the medulla: this statement has not been verified by other observers, for the tissue of the meduUary substance is less easy to make out than that of the cortical, owing to its rapid decomposition. The numerous arteries w^hich enter the suprarenal bodies, from the sources mentioned below% penetrate the cortical part of the gland, where they break up into capillaries in the fibrous septa, and these converge to the very numerous veins of the medullary portion, which are collected together into the suprarenal vein, which usually emerges as a single vessel from the centre of the gland. The arteries supplying the suprarenal capsules are numerous and of large size ; they are derived from the aorta, the phrenic, and the renal; they subdivide into numerous minute branches previous to entering the substance of the gland. The suprarenal vein returns the blood from the meduUary venous plexus, and receives several branches from the cortical substance ; it opens on the right side into the inferior vena cava, on the left side into the renal vein. The lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are exceedingly numerous : they are found chiefly, if not entirely, in the medulla, and are derived from the solar and renal plexuses, and, according to Bergmann, from the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. They have numerous smaU ganglia developed upon them, from which circumstance the organ has been conjectured to have some function in connection with the sympathetic nervous system.