EXTERNAL ILIAC 6ii the way by a broad abdominal retractor, and an incision made tlirough the peritoneum at the margin of tlie pelvis in the course of the artery, and the vessel secured in any part of its course which may seem desirable to the operator. The advantages of this operation appear to be, that if it is found necessary the common iliac artery can be ligatured instead of the external iliac without extension or modification of the incision ; and secondly, that the vessel can be ligatured without in any way interfering with the coverings of the sac. Possibly a disadvantage may exist in the greater risk of hernia after this method. Collateral Circulation.—The principal anastomoses in carrying on the collateral circulation, after the application of a ligature to the external iliac, are— the ilio-lumbar with the circumflex iliac ; the gluteal with the external circumflex; the obturator with the internal circumflex ; the sciatic with the superior perforating and circumflex branches of the profunda artery ; and the internal pudic with the external pudic. When the obturator arises from the epigastric, it is supplied with blood by branches, either from the internal iliac, the lateral sacral, or the internal pudic. The epigastric receives its supply from the internal mammary and inferior intercostal arteries, and from the internal iliac by the anastomoses of its branches with the obturator. In the dissection of a limb, eighteen years after the successful ligature of the external iliac artery, by Sir A. Cooper, which is to be found in Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 50, the anastomosing branches are described in three sets : An anterior set.— i. A very large branch from the ilio-lumbar artery to the circumflex iliac ; 2. another branch from the ilio-lumbar, joined by one from the obturator, and breaking up into numerous tortuous branches to anastomose with the external circumflex; 3. two other branches from the obturator, which passed over the brim of the pelvis, communicated with the epigastric, and then broke up into a plexus to anastomose with the internal circumflex. An internal set.—Branches given off from the obturator, after quitting the pelvis, which ramified among the adductor muscles on the inner side of the hip-joint, and joined most freely with branches of the internal circumflex. A jmsterior set.— i. Three large branches from the gluteal to the external circumflex; 2. several branches from the sciatic around the great sciatic notch to the internal and external circumflex, and the perforating branches of the profunda. Branches.—Besides several small branches to the Psoas muscle and the neigh- bom^ing lymphatic glands, the external iliac gives off two branches of considerable size, the Deep Epigastric and Deep Circmnflex Iliac. The Deep Epigastric Artery arises from the external iliac, a few lines above Poiipart's ligament. It at first descends to reach this ligament, and then ascends obliquely along the inner margin of the internal abdominal ring, lying between the transversalis fascia and peritoneum, and, continuing its course upwards, it pierces the transversalis fascia, and, passing over the semilunar fold of Douglas, enters the sheath of the Rectus muscle. It then ascends on the posterior surface of the muscle, and finally divides into numerous branches, which anastomose, above the umbilicus, with the terminal branches of the internal mammary and inferior intercostal arteries. The deep epigastric artery bears a very important relation to the internal abdominal ring as it passes obliquely upwards and inwards from its origin from the external iliac. In this part of its course it lies along the lower and inner margin of the ring, and beneath the commencement of the spermatic cord. As it winds round the internal abdominal ring, it is crossed by the vas deferens in the male and the round ligament in the female. Branches.—The branches of this vessel are the following : the cremasteric, which accompanies the spermatic cord, and supplies the Cremaster muscle and other coverings of the cord, anastomosing with the spermatic artery ; a imhic branch, which runs along Poupart's ligament, and then descends behind the pubes to the inner side of the femoral ring, and anastomoses with offsets from the obturator artery; muscular branches, some of which are distributed to the abdominal muscles and peritoneum, anastomosing with the lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries : others perforate the tendon of the External oblique, and supply the integument, anastomosing with branches of the superficial epigastric. Peculiar ities.—The origin of the epigastric may take place from any part of the external iliac between Poupart's ligament and two inches and a half above it; or it may arise below this ligament, from the femoral, or from the deep femoral. Union with Branches.—It frequently arises from the external iliac, by a common trunk with the obturator. Sometimes the epigastric arises from the obturator, the latter vessel E E 2