BRANCHES OF ULNAR 585 Fig. -,66.- - Arteries of the back of the forearm and hand. D('scc)i(liii;j bya)ich I'roni superior profunda Auasto})ioticn IIUKJUd Fosft'rior uJna) rccurrcuf cstcrior i)itcrc8scuus Supinator livevis, but beneath the AncHnirus. aiiastiMnosiui^'with a branch from the superior profunda, and with the posterior uhiar recurrent and anastoniotica niai^iia. The muscular branches are distributed to the nniscles along- the ulnar side of the forearm. The anterior carpal is a small vessehvhich crosses the front of the carpus be- neath the tendcMts of the Flexor profundus, and in- osculates with a ecu-respond- ing- branch of the radial artery. The posterior carpal arises innnediately above thv pisiform bone, and winds backwards beneath the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris; it passes across the dorsal surface of the carpus beneath the extensor tendons, anasto- mosing with a correspond- ing branch of the radial artery, and forming the jjostcfior cai-jhil torli. Im- mediately after its origin, it gives off a small branch, which runs along the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, forming- one of the 'DU'taCiUjhil ar- teries, and supplies the ulnar side of the dorsal surface of the little linger. The deep palmar or communicating" branch (tig. 365) passes deeply inwards between the Ab- ductor minimi digiti and Flexor brevis minimi digiti, near their origins ; it ana- stomoses with the termi- nation of the radial artery, completing the deep palniar arch. The Superficial Palmar Arch. — The superficial palmar arch passes out- wards across the \w\m of the hand, describing a curve, with its convexity forwards, to the space be- tween the ball of the thumb and the index linger, wlun-e the arch is completed by its anastomosing with a branch from the radialis indicis, though sometimes the arch is completed by its anastomosing with the superticialis vobe branch of the radial artery. Relations.—The superficial palmar arch is covered by the skin, the Palmaris Posterior earjjal^ [ulnar) i-^ Ter)niita!ioi> ot an- terior i iitei'o-^.'ieous Posterior carpal {radial) Badial Porsalis poUicis J^orsolis indicis