883 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH epithelium to form the enamel, contemporaneous changes are occurring in the blastema or corium which result in the formation of the dentine and cement. As before stated, the first germ of the dentine consists in the formation of papilhns, corresponding in number to the teeth, from the soft connective tissue which bounds the depressions containing the enamel germ. The pa|)illge grow upwards into the enamel organ and become coated by it and enclosed in a vascular connective tissue, the dentinal sac, in the manner above described. They then constitute the formative pulp from which the dentine and permanent pulp are derived. Each papilla consists of rounded cells, and is very vascular, and soon begins to assume the shape of the tooth which is to be developed from it. The next step is the formation of the odontoblasts, which have a relation to the development of the teeth similar to that of the osteoblasts in the formation of bone. They are formed first from the cells of the periphery of the papilla, which become enlarged and of an elongated form and provided with numerous processes. These processes as they grow become calcified externally ; the calcified por- FiG. 516.—Dental sac of a human embryo development. at an advanced stage Partly diagrammatic. of tion forming the walls of the dentinal tubules, and the uncalcified axial portion forming the dentinal fibres (Tomes's fibres) which are contained within the tubules. In addition to this the lateral processes from the odonto- blasts form the branches of anastomosis whereby the dentinal canals com- municate. In this way the peripheral layer of the papilla becomes coated with a solid shell of dentine, on the inner surface of which a second layer of odontoblasts is arranged and in its turn calcifies, and thus the process goes on through the entire thickness of the dentine, the processes of one odonto- blast being directly continuous with those in succeeding layers, so that each dental fibre must be regarded as form- ed by several continuous odontoblasts. The central part of the papilla does not undergo calcification ; its cells pro- liferate, nerve-fibres are developed in it, and it remains persistent as the pulp of the tooth. The cement is formed from the wall of the dentinal sac, which is developed from the embryonic mass at the bottom of the dental groove from which the papilla originally sprung. So that the dentine and cement may be said to originate from analogous structures. In this membranous sac ossification goes on in a manner identical with the intra- membranous ossification of bone, and the cement formed is simply ordinary bone, containing canaliculi and lacunae. The germs of the milk teeth make their appearance in the following order : at the seventh week, the germ of the first molar of the upper jaw appears ; at the eighth week, that for the canine tooth is developed ; the two incisor papillae appear about the ninth week (the central preceding the lateral) ; lastly, the second molar papilla is seen at the tenth week, behind the anterior molar. The teeth of the lower jaw appear rather later, the first molar papilla being only just visible at the seventh week, and the second molar papilla not being developed before the eleventh week. Development of the permanent teeth.—The permanent teeth as regards their development may be divided into two sets : (i) those which replace the temporary teeth, and which, like them, are ten in number : these are the successionalpermanent 3 L 2 a. Wall of tlie sac, furmecl or connective tissue, outer stratum a} ami its inner h. Jinamel organ with its papillary and parietal layer of cells, c, d. The eaamel-menibrane and enamel-prispas. e. Dentine cells. /. Dental germ and capillaries, g, i. Transition of the wall of the follicle into the tissue of the dental germ.