989 THE THYROID GLAND consequently the air taken into the wounded air-cells may find its way through these wounds into the cellular tissue of the parietes of the chest. This it may do without collecting in the pleural cavity; the two layers of the pleura are so intimately in contact that the air passes straight through from the wounded hmg into the subcutaneous tissue. Emphysema constitutes therefore the most important sign of injury to the lung in cases of fracture of the ribs. Pneumothorax, or air m the pleural cavity, is much more likely to occur in injuries to the lung of the third variety, that is to say, from external wounds, from stabs, gunshot injuries and such like, in which cases air passes either from the wound of the lung or from the external wound into the cavity of the pleura during the respiratory movements. In these cases there is generally no emphysema of the sub- cutaneous tissue unless the external wound is small and valvular, so that the air is drawn into the wound durmg inspiration, and then forced into the cellular tissue around during expiration because it cannot escape from the external wound. Occasionally in wounds of the parietes of the chest no air finds its way into the cavity of the pleura, because the lung at the time of the accident protrudes through the wound and blocks the opening. This occurs where the wound is large, and constitutes one form of hernia of the lung. Another form of hernia of the lung occurs, though very rarely, after wounds of the chest wall, when the wound has healed and the cicatrix subsequently yields from the pressure of the viscus behind. It forms a globular, elastic, crepitating swelling, which enlarges during expiratory efforts, falls in during inspiration, and disappears on holding the breath. The Thyeoid Gland Fig. 581.—Two lobules from the thyroid of an infant. The thyroid gland bears much resemblance in structure to other glandular organs, and was formerly classified together with the thymus, suprarenal capsules, and spleen, under the head of ductless glands, since when fully developed it has no excretory duct. From its situation in connection with the trachea and larynx, the thyroid body is usually described with those organs, although it takes no part in the function of respiration. It is situated at the upper part of the trachea, and consists of two lateral lobes, x^laced one on each side of that tube, and connected together by a narrow transverse portion, the isthmus. Its anterior surface is convex, and covered by the Sterno-hyoid, Sterno- thyroid, and Omo-hyoid muscles. Its lateral surfaces, also convex, lie in contact with the sheath of the common carotid artery. Its posterior surface is concave, and embraces the trachea and larynx. The posterior borders of the gland extend as far back as the lower part of the pharynx, and on the left side to the oesophagus. The thyroid varies in weight from one to tw^o ounces. It females than in males, and becomes slightly increased in size during menstruation. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, about two inches in length, and three- quarters of an inch to an inch and a quarter in breadth, the right lobe being the larger of the two. The isthmus connects the lower third of the two lateral lobes ; it measures about half an inch in breadth, and the same in depth, and usually covers the second and third rings of the trachea. Its situation presents, how^ever, many variations, a point of importance in the operation of tracheotomy. Sometimes the isthmus is altogether wanting. A third lobe, of conical shape, called the ijyramid, occasionally arises from the upper part of the isthmus, or from the adjacent portion of either lobe, but most a. Small glandular vesicles with tlieir cells, h. The same with iucipient colloid metamorphosis, more strongly marked at c. d. Coarse lymph-canals. e. Fine radicles of the same. /. An efferent vessel of considerable size. is larger in