THE SKELETON * Wood. Heath's Dictionary of Practical Surgery, i. 426. members of the same sex. This does not appear to be influenced in any way by the height of the individual. Women of short stature, as a rule, have broad pelves. Occasionally the pelvis is equally contracted in all its dimensions, so much so that all its diameters measure an inch less than the average, and this even in women of average height and otherwise well formed. The principal divergences, however, are found at the inlet, and affect the relation of the antero-posterior to the transverse diameter. Thus we may have a pelvis the inlet of which is elliptical either in a transverse or antero-posterior direction ; the transverse diameter in the former, and the antero-posterior in the latter, greatly exceeding the other diameters. Again, the inlet of the pelvis in some instances is seen to be almost circular. The same differences are found in various races. European women are said to have the most roomy pelves. That of the negress is smaller, circular in shape, and with a narrow pubic arch. The Hottentots and Bushwomen possess the smallest pelves. In the fcehcs, and for several years after birth, the pelvis is small in proportion to that of the adult. The cavity is deep, and the projection of the sacro-vertebral angle less marked. The antero-posterior and transverse diameters are nearly equal. About puberty, the pelvis in both sexes presents the general characters of the adult male pelvis ; but after puberty it acquires its proper sexual characters. Surface Form.—The pelvic bones are so thickly covered with muscles that it is only at certain points that they approach the surface and can be felt through the skin. In front, the anterior superior spinous process is easily to be recognised; a portion of it is sub- cutaneous, and in thin subjects may be seen to stand out as a prominence at the outer extremity of the fold of the groin. In fat subjects its position is marked by an oblique depression amongst the surrounding fat, at the bottom of which the bony process may be felt. Proceeding upwards and outwards from this process, the crest of the ilium may be traced throughout its whole length, sinuously curved. It is represented, in muscular subjects, on the surface, by a groove or furrow, the iliac furrow, caused by the projection of fleshy fibres of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen. It terminates behind in the posterior superior spinous process, the position of which is indicated by a slight depression on a level with and on each side of the spinous process of the second sacral vertebra^ Between the two posterior superior spinous processes, but at a lower level, is to be felt the spinous process of the third sacral vertebra (see page 132). Another part of the bony pelvis which is easily accessible to the touch is the tuberosity of the ischium, situated beneath the gluteal fold, and, when the hip is flexed, easily to be felt, as it is then to a great extent uncovered by muscle. Finally, the spine of the os pubis can always be readily felt, and constitutes an important surgical guide, especially in connection Mdth the subject of hernia. It is nearly in the same horizontal line with the upper edge of the great trochanter. In thin subjects'it is very apparent, but in the obese it is obscured by the pubic fat. It can, however, be detected by following up the tendon of origin of the Adductor longus muscle. Surgical Anatomy.—There is arrest of development in the bones of the pelvis in cases of extroversion of the bladder; the anterior part of the pelvic girdle being deficient, the bodies of tiie pubic bones imperfectly developed, and the symphysis absent. ' The pubic bones are separated to the extent of from two to four inches, the superior rami'shortened and directed forwards, and the obturator foramen diminished in size, narrowed, and turned outwards. The iliac bones are straightened out more than normal. The sacrum is very peculiar. The lateral curve, instead of being concave, is flattened out or even convex, with the ilio-sacral facets turned more outward than normal, while the vertical curve is straightened.' * Fractures of the pelvis are divided into fractures of the false pelvis and of the true pelvis. Fractures of the false pelvis vary in extent; a small portion of the crest may be broken, or one of the spinous processes may be torn off, and this may be the result of muscular action ; or the bone may be extensively comminuted. This latter accident is the result of some crushing violence, and may be complicated with fracture of the true pelvis. These cases may be accom- panied by injury to the intestine as it lies in the hollow of the bone, or to the iliac vessels as they course along the margin of the true pelvis. Fractures of the true pelvis generally occur through the horizontal ramus of the os pubis and the ascending ramus of the ischium, as this is the weakest part of the bony ring, and may be caused either by crushing violence applied in an antero-posterior direction, when the fracture occurs from direct force, or by compression laterally, when the acetabula are pressed together and the bone gives way in the same place from indirect violence. Occasionally the fracture may be double, occurring on both sides of the body. It is in these cases that injury to the contained viscera is liable to take