TEMPORO-MAXILLARY The Stylo-maxillary Ligament is also a specialised band of the cervical fascia, which extends from near the apex of the styloid process of the temporal bone to the angle and posterior border of the ramus of the lower jaw, between the Masseter and Internal pterygoid muscles. This ligament separates the parotid from the submaxillary gland, and has attached to its inner side part of the fibres of origin of the Stylo-giossus muscle. Although usually classed among the ligaments of the jaw, it can only be considered as an accessory in the articulation. The Capsular Ligament forms a thin and loose ligamentous capsule, attached above to the circumference of the glenoid cavity and the articular surface im- mediately in front ; below, to the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw. It consists of a few thin scattered fibres, and can hardly be considered as a distinct ligament; it is thickest at the back part of the articulation.* The Interarticular Fibro-cartilage (fig. 234) is a thin plate of an oval form, placed horizontally between the condyle of the jaw and the glenoid cavity. Its upper surface is concavo-convex from before backwards, and a little convex transversely, to accommo- date itself to the form of the glenoid cavity. Its under surface, where it is in contact with the condyle, is concave. Its circumference is con- nected to the capsular ligament ; and in front to the tendon of the External pterygoid muscle. It is thicker at its circumference, espe- cially behind, than at its centre. The fibres of which it is composed have a concentric arrangement, more apparent at the circumference than at the centre. Its surfaces are smooth. It divides the joint into two cavities, each of which is furnished with a separate synovial membrane. The Synovial Membranes, two in number, are placed one above, and the other below, the fibro-cartilage. The upper one, the larger and looser of the two, is continued from the margin of the cartilage covering the glenoid cavity and eminentia articularis on to the upper surface of the fibro-cartilage. The lower one passes from the under surface of the fibro-cartilage to the neck of the condyle of the jaw, being prolonged downwards a little further behind than in front. The nerves of this joint are derived from the auriculo-temporal and masseteric branches of the inferior maxillary. The arteries are derived from the temporal branch of the external carotid. Actions.—The movements permitted in this articulation are very extensive. Thus, the jaw may be depressed or elevated, or it may be carried forwards or backwards, or from side to side. It is by the alternation of these movements, performed in succession, that a kind of rotatory motion of the lower jaw upon the upper takes place, which materially assists in the mastication of the food. If the movement of depression is carried only to a slight extent, the condyles remain in the glenoid cavities, rotating on a transverse axis against the inter- articular fibro-cartilage ; but if the depression is considerable, the condyles glide from the glenoid fossae on to the articular eminences, carrying with them the inter- articular fibro-cartilages, so that in opening the mouth widely the two movements are combined—i.e. the condyle rotates on a transverse axis against the fibro- cartilage, and at the same time glides forwards, carrying the fibro-cartilage with it. When the jaw is elevated, after forced depression, the condyles and fibro-cartilages * Sir G. Humphry describes the internal portion of the capsular ligament separately, as the short internal lateral ligament; and it certainly seems as deserving of a separate description as the external lateral ligament is. Fig. 234.—A^ertical section of temporo- maxillary articulation..