CONVOLUTIONS OF CEREBEUM 699 The parieto-occipital fissure is only seen to a slight extent on the outer surface of the hemisphere, and is not so distinctly marked as the others. The portion on the outer surface of the hemisphere is sometimes called the externalparieto-occiintal fissure, to distinguish it from the continuation of the sulcus on the internal surface of the hemisphere, which would then be termed the internal parieto- occipital fissure. It commences about midway between the posterior extremity of the brain and the fissure of Rolando, and runs downwards and forwards for about an inch. It divides the parietal and occipital lobes. These three fissures divide the external surface of the hemisphere into five lobes : the frontal, the parietal, the occijntal, the temporo-sphenoidal, and the central or island of Beil. The frontal lobe is that portion of the brain which is situated in front of the fissure of Rolando and above the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. Its under surface rests on the orbital plate of the frontal bone, and is termed the orbital lobe. The outer surface of the frontal lobe presents three sulci, which divide it into four primary convolutions, i. The precentral sulcus runs upwards through this lobe, parallel to the lower half of the fissure of Rolando. It divides off a convo- lution, which lies between it and the fissure of Rolando, and which is called the ascending frontal convolution. 2 and 3. From it two sulci, the superior and inferior frontal sulci, run forwards and downwards and divide the remainder of the outer surface of the lobe—namely, that part in front of the precentral sulcus— into three principal convolutions, named respectively the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions. The under surface of the frontal lobe, which rests on the orbita^l plate of the frontal bone, is named the orbital lobe (fig. 417). It presents a well-marked groove or sulcus for the olfactory tract. The convolution internal to this sulcus forms part of the marginal gyrus, hereafter to be described. External to the sulcus this surface of the frontal lobe is divided into three convolutions by a well- marked sulcus, the orbital sulcus. These are named, from their positions, the internal, anterior, and posterior orbital convolutions, and are the continuation respectively of the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions. The ascefiding frontal convolution is a simple convolution, bounded in front by the precentral sulcus, behind by the fissure of Rolando, and extending from the upper margin of the hemisphere above to a little behind the bifurcation of the fissure of Sylvius below. The superior frontal convolution is situated between the margin of the longitu- dinal fissure and the superior frontal sulcus. It extends above on to the inner aspect of the hemisphere, forming the marginal convolution, and in front on to the orbital surface, forming the internal orbital convolution. It is much divided by secondary sulci. The middle frontal convolution is situated between the superior and inferior frontal sulci, and extends from the precentral sulcus to the lower margin of the lobe, where it forms the anterior orbital convolution. The inferior frontal convolution is situated below the inferior frontal sulcus, and extends from the lower part of the precentral sulcus, circling round the ascending and anterior limbs of the fissure of Sylvius to the under surface of the lobe, where it forms the posterior orbital convolution. The parietal lobe is situated between the frontal and occipital lobes, and is not much more than half the size of the former. It is bounded in front by the fissure of Rolando; behind, by the external parieto-occipital fissure, and a line drawn in continuation of that sulcus over the hemisphere ; and below, by the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and a line connecting this with the lower end of the superior occipital sulcus. Above, it extends to the longitudinal fissure. It presents for examination two sulci and three convolutions. The intraparietal sulcus commences close to the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, about midway between the fissure of Rolando and the upturned