HEART^LEFT AURICLE 957 extent; whilst the third set {muscidi 2)a2nllares), three or four in number, are attached by one extremity to the wall of the heart, the opposite extremity giving attachment to the chordc& tendinecB. The semilunar valves, three in number,* guard the orifice of the pulmonary artery. They consist of three semicircular folds, two anterior (right and left) and one posterior, formed by a duplicature of the lining~membrano, stren^tliened by IS'S'oSs tissue'. They are attached, by their convex margins, to the wall of the artery, at its junction with the ventricle, the straight border being free, and directed upwards in the course of the vessel, against the sides of which the valve-flaps are pressed during the passage of the blood along the artery. The free margin of each is somewhat thicker than the rest of the valve, is strengthened by a bundle of tendinous fibres, and presents, at its middle, a small projecting thickened nodule, called corpus Arajitii.^ From this nodule tendinous fibres radiate through the valve to its attached margin, and these fibres form a constituent part of its substance throughout its whole extent, excepting two narrow lunated portions, placed on each side of the nodule immediately behind the free margin ; here the valve is thin, and formed merely by the lining membrane. During the passage of the blood along the pulmonary artery these valves are pressed against the sides of the cylinder, and the course of the blood along the tube is uninterrupted; but during the ventricular diastole, when the current of blood along the pulmonary artery is checked, and partly thrown back by its elastic walls, these valves become immediately expanded, and effectually close the entrance of the tube. When the valves are closed, the lunated portions of each are brought into contact with one another by their opposed surfaces, the three corpora Arantii filling up the small triangular space that would be otherwise left by the approximation of the three semilunar valves. Between the semilunar valves and the commencement of the pulmonary artery are three pouches or dilatations, one behind each valve. These are the pulmonary sinuses {sinuses of Valsalva). Similar sinuses exist between the semilunar valves ajtid^'Oie'cbnTme^^ of the aortaythey are larger than the pulmonary sinuses. The blood, in its regurgitation towards the heart, finds its way into these sinuses, and so shuts down the valve-flapst. In order to examine the interior of the left auricle, make an incision on the posterior surface of the auricle from the pulmonary veins on one side to those on the other, the incision being carried a little way into the vessels. Make another incision from the middle of the horizontal one to the appendix. The Left Auricle is rather smaller than the right; its walls thicker, measuring about one line and a half ; it consists, like the right, of two parts, a principal cavity, or sinus, and an appendix auriculae. The simts is cuboidal in form, and concealed, in front, by the pulmonary artery and aorta; internally, it is separated from the right auricle by the septum auricu- larum ; behind, it receives on each side the pulmonary veins, being free in the rest of its extent. The appendix auriculce is somewhat constricted at its junction with the auricle ; it is longer, narrower, and more curved than that of the right side, and its margins more deeply indented, presenting a kind of foliated appearance. Its direction is * The pulmonary semilunar valves have been found to be two in number instead of three (Dr. Hand, of St. Paul, Minn., in the NortJi-Western Med. and Surg. Journ., July 1873), and the same variety is more frequently noticed in the aortic semilunar valves. t In former editions, as well as in other text-books on anatomy, these little nodules have been described as fibro-cartilaginous in structure. At my request, Dr. Le Cronier Lancaster, Demonstrator of Anatomy at St. George's Hospital, has investigated this subject, and reports that the ' corpora Arantii ' appear to consist of bimdles of interlacing connective-tissue fibres with branched connective-tissue cells, and some few elastic fibres. Occasionally a roimded cell, with indistinct capsule, resembling a cartilage-cell, was seen ; but there were not many of them. At the free edge of the corpus the structure is denser, there being a larger proportion of fibres to cells than in the central portion. He thinks the structure of the corpus should be put down as fibrous and not fibro-cartilaginous.