199 THE THORAX aponeurosis of the Digastric (suprahyoid aponeurosis) ; and between these to part of the Hyo-giossus. The posterior surface is smooth, concave, directed backwards and downwards, and separated from the epiglottis by the thyro-hyoid membrane, and by a quantity of loose areolar tissue. The superior border is rounded, and gives attachment to the thyro-hyoid membrane, part of the Genio-hyo-giossi, and Chondro- glossi muscles. The inferior border gives attachment, in front, to the Sterno-hyoid ; behind, to the Omo-hyoid and to part of the Thyro-hyoid, at its junction with the great cornu. It also gives attachment to the Levator glandulte thyroideae, when this muscle is present. The lateral surfaces are small, oval, convex facets, covered with cartilage for articulation with the greater cornua. The Greater Cornua (thyro-hyal) project backwards from the lateral surfaces of the body; they are flattened from above downwards, diminish in size from before backwards, and terminate posteriorly in a tubercle for the attachment of the lateral thyro-hyoid ligament. The outer surface gives attachment to the Hyo- glossus, their upper border to the Middle constrictor of the pharynx, their lower border to part of the Thyro-hyoid muscle. In youth, the great cornua are connected to the body by cartilaginous surfaces, and held together by ligaments ; in middle life they usually become joined. The Lesser Cornua (cerato-liyals) are two small, conical-shaped eminences, attached by their bases to the angles of junction between the body and greater cornua, and giving attachment by their apices to the stylo-hyoid ligaments.* The smaller cornua are connected to the body of the bone by a distinct diarthrpdial joint, which usually persists throughout life, but occasionally becomes ankylosed. Development.—By five centres: one for the body, and one for each cornu. Ossification commences in the body about the eighth month, and in the greater cornua towards the end of foetal life. Ossification of the lesser cornua commences some months after birth. Attachment of Muscles.—Sterno-hyoid, Thyro-hyoid, Omo-hyoid, aponeurosis of the Digastric, Stylo-hyoid, Mylo-hyoid, Genio-hyoid, Genio-hyo-glossus, Chondro- glossus, Hyo-glossus, Middle constrictor of the pharynx, and occasionally a few fibres of the Lingualis. It also gives attachment to the thyro-hyoidean membrane, and the stylo-hyoid, thyro-hyoid, and hyo-epiglottic ligaments. Surface Form.—The hyoid bone can be felt in the receding angle below the chin, and the finger can be carried along the whole length of the bone to the greater cornu, which is situated just below the angle of the jaw. This process of bone is best perceived by making pressure on one cornu and so pushing the bone over to the opposite side, when the cornu of this side will be distinctly felt immediately beneath the skin. This process of bone is an important landmark in ligature of the lingual artery. Surgical Anatomy.—The hyoid bone is occasionally fractured, generally from direct violence, as in the act of garotting or throttling.' The great cornu is the part of the bone most frequently broken, but sometimes the fracture takes place through the body of the bone. In consequence of the nauscles of the tongue having important connections with this bone, there is great pain upon any attempt being made to move the tongue, as in speaking or swallowing. THE THORAX The Thorax, or Chest, is an osseo-cartilaginous cage, containing and protecting the principal organs of respiration and circulation. It is conical in shape, being narrow above and broad below, flattened from before backw^ards, and longer behind than in front. It is somewhat cordiform on transverse section. Boundaries.—The posterior surface is formed by the twelve dorsal vertebrae and the posterior part of the ribs. It is convex from above downwards, and presents on each side of the middle line a deep groove, in consequence of the direction backwards and outwards which the ribs take from their vertebral extremities to their angles. The anterior surface is flattened or slightly convex, and inclined forwards from above dowmwards. It is formed by the sternum and * These ligaments in many animals are distinct bones, and in man are occasionally ossified to a certain extent.