127 SACEUM superior angle of the bone ; the second, small in size, enter into the formation of the sacro-iliac articulation ; the third give attachment to the oblique fasciculi of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments ; and the fourth and fifth to the great sacro-sciatic ligaments. The interspace between the spinous and transverse processes on the back of the sacrum presents a wide, shallow concavity, called the sacral groove ; it is continuous above with the vertebral groove, and lodges the origin of the Erector spin^e. The Lateral Surface, broad above, becomes narrowed into a thin edge below. Its upper half presents in front a broad, ear-shaped surface for articulation with the ilium. This is called the auricular surface, and in the fresh state is coated with fibro-cartilage. It is bounded posteriorly by deep and uneven impressions, for the attachment of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. The lower half is thin and sharp, and gives attachment to the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments, Fig. 124.—Sacrum, posterior surface. and to some fibres of the Gluteus maximus ; below, it presents a deep notch, which is converted into a foramen by articulation with the transverse process of the upper piece of the coccyx, and transmits the anterior division of the fifth sacral nerve. The Base of the sacrum, which is broad and expanded, is directed upwards and forwards. In the middle is seen a large oval articular surface, which is connected the under surface of the body of the last lumbar vertebra by a fibro-carti- laginous disc. It is bounded behind by the large, triangular orifice of the sacral canal. The orifice is formed behind by the laminae and spinous process of the first sacral vertebra : the superior articular processes project from it on each side ; they are oval, concave, directed backwards and inwards, like the superior articular processes of a lumbar vertebra ; and in front of each articular process is an inter- vertebral notch, which forms the lower half of the last intervertebral foramen.