79 THE AMNION the fifth or sixth week, at the same time that the allantois, which is the great bond of vascular connection between the embryo and the uterine tissues, is formed. In fact the umbihcal vesicle provides for the nutrition of the foetus from the ovum itself, while the allantois is the channel whereby it is nourished from the uterine tissues. The umbilical vesicle, containing fluid, remains visible, however, up to the fourth or fifth month, with its pedicle and the omphalo-mesenteric vessels. The latter vessels become atrophied as the functional activity of the body with which they are connected ceases. So far we have traced—(i) the segmentation or cleavage of the yolk into a number of nucleated cells—' vitelline spheres.' (2) The accumulation of fluid within the ovum, and the arrangement of the vitelline spheres around the fluid on the internal surface of the vitelline membrane, forming a second membrane, the * blastodermic membrane.' (3) The separation of the blastodermic membrane into three layers, named, from within outwards, the ' hypoblast,' the ' mesoblast,' and the ' epiblast.' (4) The formation of an elongated, oval-shaped disc, called the * area germinativa.' (5) The appearance in the centre of the area germinativa of a delicate line or furrow, running longitudinally, and called the 'primitive trace.' (6) The formation of a distinct groove in the situation of this primitive trace, catsed by the growing-up of the cells on either side of it, so as to form two longitu- dinal ridges, called the ' laminae dorsales.' (7) The increase and incurvation of these laminas dorsales, until they meet behind, enclosing a canal, lined by epiblast. The canal is the neural canal, and from the epiblast which lines it the nervous centres are developed. (8) The formation, in the hypoblast immediately under this canal, of a continuous rod-shaped body, the ' chorda dorsalis,' or ' notochord.' (9) The formation from the mesoblast, on either side of the notochord, of a longitudinal column, divided into a number of square segments, the ' protovertebra.' (10) The splitting of the mesoblast, external to the protovertebrs, into two layers—the outer, called the ' somatopleure,' lined externally by the epiblast; the inner, called the * splanchnopleure,' lined internally by the hypoblast, a space being left between the two, which forms the ' pleuro-peritoneal cavity.' (11) The curving of the embryo on itself, both longitudinally and laterally, so as to be comparable to a canoe ; the walls being formed of all three layers of the blastodermic membrane and the well of the canoe—that is, the body-cavity of the embryo, opening into the cavity of the yolk-sac. (12) A portion of the yolk-sac lying in the body- cavity of the embryo, and a portion outside it; the two communicating by a duct, the ' omphalo-mesenteric ' duct. The portion of the yolk-sac external to the body- cavity is termed the umbilical vesicle, and provides nutrition to the embryo until such time as the allantois is formed; vessels, developed from the middle blastodermic layer, ramifying over it, and gradually absorbing its contents.* The next step towards a clear understanding of the development of the embryo is to have a proper conception of the manner in which the membranes enveloping the foetus are formed. The membranes investing the foetus are the amnion, the chorion, and the decidua. The two former are developed from foetal structures, and are proper to the foetus ; the latter is formed in the uterus, and is derived from the maternal structures. The Amnion.—The amnion is the membrane which immediately surrounds the embryo. It is of small size at first, but increases considerably towards the middle of pregnancy, as the foetus acquires the power of independent movement. It exists only in reptiles, birds, and mammals, which are hence called ' Amniota,' but is absent in amphibia and fishes. It is formed thus. At or near the extremities of the incurved foetus—that is to say, at the point of constriction of the blastodermic membrane, where the portion which has undergone changes to form the body of the embryo joins the part devoted to the formation of the umbilical vesicle—an inflection of the epiblast and outer layer of the mesoblast, which have become * According to Professor John A. Eyder, it is ' very doubtful if any considerable amount of nutriment is supplied to the embryo from the yolk-sac at any time.'