r NERVOUS TISSUE 43 the epineurium and terminating in tactile corpuscles or end-bulbs of Krause, or in small, but perfect, Pacinian corpuscles. These nerve-fibres, which Professor Marshall believes to be sensory, and which he has termed 7ie7'vi nervorum, are considered by him to have an important bearing upon certain neuralgic pains. The nerve-fibres, as far as is at present known, do not coalesce, but pursue an uninterrupted course from the centre to the periphery. In separating a nerve, however, into its component funiculi, it may be seen that they do not pursue a perfectly insulated course, but occasionally join at a very acute angle with other funiculi proceeding in the same direction; from this, branches are given off, to join again in like manner with other funiculi. It must be remembered, however, I that in these communications the nerve-fibres do not coalesce, but merely pass j into the sheath of the adjacent nerve, become intermixed with its nerve-fibres, and again pass on, to become blended with the nerve-fibres in some adjoining funiculus. Nerves, in their course, subdivide into branches, and these frequently com- ' municate with branches of a neighbouring nerve. In the subdivision of a nerve, ) the filaments of which it is composed are continued from the trunk into the branches, and at their junction with the branches of neighbouring nerves the I filaments pass to become intermixed with those of the other nerves in their further 1 progress ; in no instance, however, have the separate nerve-fibres been shown to \ inosculate. The communications which take place between two or more nerves form what is called a plexus. Sometimes a plexus is formed by the primary branches of the trunks of the nerves—as the cervical, brachial, lumbar, and sacral plexuses—and : occasionally by the terminal funiculi, as in the plexuses formed at the periphery of I the body. In the formation of a plexus, the component nerves divide, then join, and again subdivide in such a complex manner that the individual funiculi become interlaced most intricately ; so that each branch leaving a plexus may contain I filaments from each of the primary nervous trunks which form it. In the forma- tion also of smaller plexuses at the periphery of the body, there is a free inter- I change of the funiculi and primitive fibres. In each case, however, the individual I filaments remain separate and distinct, and do not inosculate with one another. I It is probable that through this interchange of fibres the different branches : passing oft' from a plexus have a more extensive connection with the spinal cord I than if they each had proceeded to be distributed without such connection with other nerves. Consequently, the parts supplied by these nerves have more extended relations with the nervous centres ; by this means, also, groups of muscles may be associated for combined action. The sympathetic nerves are constructed in the same manner as the cerebro- I spinal nerves, but consist mainly of non-meduUated fibres, collected into funiculi, : and enclosed in a sheath of connective tissue. There is, however, in these i nerves, a certain admixture of medullated fibres, and the amount varies in different nerves, and may be known by its colour. Those branches of the sympa- thetic which present a well-marked grey colour are composed more especially of gelatinous nerve-fibres, intermixed with a few medullated fibres ; whilst those of a white colour contain more of the latter fibres, and a few of the former. Occasion- ally, the grey and white cords run together in a single nerve, without any inter- mixture, as in the branches of communication between the sympathetic ganglia and the spinal nerves, or in the communicating cords between the ganglia. The nerve-fibres, both of the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic system, convey impressions of a twofold kind. The sensory nerves, called also centrijjetal or afferent nerves, transmit to the nervous centres impressions made upon the ' I peripheral extremities of the nerves, and in this way the mind, through the medium ' of the brain, becomes conscious of external objects. The motor nerves, called also ' centrifugal or efferent nerves, transmit impressions from the nervous centres to the ^ parts to which the nerves are distributed, these impressions either exciting muscular I' contraction, or influencing the processes of nutrition, growth, and secretion. Origin and Termination of Nerves.—By the expression ' the termination of