THE SPINE IN GENERAL 133 rounded nodule of bone just below and in front of the apex of the mastoid process, along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. The transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is of surgical importance. If deep pressure be made in the neck, m the course of the carotid artery, opposite the cricoid cartilage, the prominent anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra can be felt. This has been named Chassaigjiac's tubercle, and against it the carotid artery may be most conveniently com- pressed by the finger. The transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra can also often be felt. Occasionally the anterior root, or costal process, is large and segmented oti', forming a cervical rib. Surgical Anatomy.—Occasionally the coalescence of the laminae is not completed, and consequently a cleft is left in the arches of the vertebrae, through which a protrusion of the spinal membranes (dura mater and arachnoid), and sometimes of the spinal cord itself, takes place, constituting the disease known as spina bifida. This disease is most common in the lumbo-sacral region, on account of the fact, previously stated, that the closure of the arches takes place gradually from above downward; but it may occur in the dorsal or cervical region, or the arches throughout the whole length of the canal may remain unapproximated. In some rare cases, in consequence of the non-coalescence of the two primary centres from which the body is formed, a similar condition may occur in front of the canal, the bodies of the vertebrae being found cleft and the tumour projecting into the thorax, abdomen, or pelvis, between the lateral halves of the bodies affected. The construction of the spinal column of a number of pieces, securely connected together and enjojdng only a slight degree of movement between any two individual pieces, though permitting of a very considerable range of movement as a whole, allows a sufficient degree of mobility without any material diminution of strength. The many joints of which the spine is composed, together with the very varied movements to which it is subjected, render it liable to sprains; but so closely are the individual vertebrae articulated that these sprains are rarely or ever severe, and any amount of violence sufficiently great to produce tearing of the ligaments would tend rather to cause a dislocation or fracture. The further safety of the colmnn and its less liability to injury is provided for by its disposition in curves, instead of in one straight line. For it is an elastic column, and must first bend before it breaks; under these circumstances, being made up of three curves, it represents three columns, and greater force is required to produce bending of a short column, than of a longer one that is equal to it in breadth and material. Again, the safety of the column is provided for by the interposition of the intervertebral disc between the bodies of the vertebrae, which act as admirable buffers in counteracting the effects of violent jars or shocks. Fracture-dislocation of the spine may be caused by direct or indirect violence or by a combination of the two, as when a person, falling from a height, strikes against some prominence and is doubled over it. The fractures from indirect violence are the more common, and here the bodies of the vertebras are compressed, whilst the arches are torn asunder; whilst in fractures from direct violence the arches are compressed and the bodies of the vertebra separated from each other. It will therefore be seen that in both classes of injury the spinal marrow is the part least likely to be injured, and may escape damage even where there has been considerable lesion of the bony framework. For, as Mr. Jacobson states, ' being lodged in the centre of the column, it occupies neutral ground in respect to forces which might cause fracture. For it is a law in mechanics that when a beam, as of timber, is exposed to breakage and the force does not exceed the limits of the strength of the material, one division resists compression, another laceration of the particles, while the third, between the two, is in a negative condition.' * Applying this principle to the spine, it will be seen that, whether the fracture-dislocation be produced by direct violence or indirect, one segment, either the anterior or posterior, will be ex- posed to compression, the other to laceration, and the intermediate part, where the cord is situated, will be in a neutral state. When a fracture-dislocation is produced by indirect violence, the displacement is almost always the same ; the upper segment being driven forwards on the lower, so that the cord is compressed between the body of the vertebra below and the arch of the vertebra above. The parts of the spine most liable to be injured are (i) the dorsi-lumbar region, for this i^art is near the middle of the column and there is therefore a greater amount of leverage, and moreover the portion above is comparatively fixed, and the vertebrae which form it, though much smalle^r, have nevertheless to bear almost as great a weight as those below ; (2) the cervico-dorsal region, because here the flexible cervical portion of the spine joins the more fixed dorsal region ; and (3) the alto-axoid region, because it enjoys an extensive range of movement, and, being near the skull, is influenced by violence applied to the head. In fracture-dislocation it has been proposed to trephine the spine and remove portions of the laminae and spinous processes. The operation can only be of use when the paralysis is due to the pressure of bone or the effusion of blood, and not to cases, which are by far the most common, where the cord is crushed to a pulp. And even in those cases where the cord is compressed by bone, the i)ortion of displaced bone which presses on the cord is generally the body of the vertebra below and is therefore inaccessible to operation. The operative proceeding is one of great severity, involving an extensive * Holmes's System of Surgery, vol. i. p. 529. 1883.