721 FORAMEN OF MONRO third communicates with the lateral ventricles. Behind is a third opening leading into the fourth ventricle by a canal, the aqueduct of Sylvius, or iter a tertio ad quartum ventricuhmi. The fourth, situated in the anterior part of the floor of the ventricle, is a deep pit, which leads downwards to the funnel-shaped cavity of the infundibulum {;Uer ad infundihulum). A fifth opening existed in the foetus, which communicated behind with a cavity in the pineal gland. A sixth opening also existed in the foetus, which communicated in front with the fifth ventricle. The lining membrane of the lateral ventricles is continued through the foramen of Monro into the third ventricle, and extends along the iter a tertio ^into the fourth ventricle; at the bottom of the iter ad infundibulum, it ends in a cul-de-sac. The foramen of Monro is a foramen by which each lateral ventricle communi- cates with the third ventricle. It is formed by the anterior extremity of the body Fig. 431.—Vertical median section of the encephalon, showing the parts in the middle line. I. Gonvoliition of the corpus callosum. Above it is tlie \ ualloso-margiiial fissure, ruuuiug out at 2 to joiu tlie fissure of Rolando. ' 3. The parieto-occipital fissure. 4. 4 point to the calcarine fissure, which is just above the numbers. Between 2 and 3 are the convolu- tions of the quadrate lobe. Between 3 and 4 is the | cuneate lobe. 5. The corpus callosum. i 6. The septum lucidum. j 7. The fornix. 8. Anterior crus of the fornix, descending to the base of the brain, and turning on itself to form the cor- pus albicans. Its course to the optic thalamus is in- dicated by a dotted line. 9. The optic thalamus. Behind the anterior crus of the fornix, a shaded part indicates the foramen of Monro ; in front of the number an oval mark shows the position of the grey matter continuous with the middle commissure. 10. The velum interpositum. Ti. The pineal gland. 12. The corpora quadrigemina. 13. The crus cerebri. 14. The valve of Vieusseus (above the number). 15. The pons Varolii. 16. The third nerve. 17. The pituitary body. 18. The optic nerve. ig points to the anterior commissure, indicated by an oval mark behind the number. of the fornix, which, dividing into its two crura, arches downwards in front of the anterior extremity of the optic thalami; the crus is not, however, in contact with the thalamus, but an interval is left between the two, which is the foramen of Monro. Its boundaries are, therefore, in front, the anterior pillars of the fornix ; behind, the anterior extremity of the optic thalamus ; above, the body of the 3 A