621 POPLITEAL middle and lower third of the thigh obliquely downwards to the middle of the popliteal space, exactly behind the knee-joint. From this point it passes vertically downwards to the level of a line drawn through the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia. Surgical Anatomy.—The popliteal artery is not infrequently the seat of injury. It may be torn by direct violence, as by the passage of a cart-wheel over the knee, or by hyper-extension of the knee ; and in the dead body, at all events, the middle and internal coats may be ruptured by extreme flexion. It may also be lacerated by fracture of the lower part of the shaft of the femur, or by antero-posterior dislocation of the knee-joint. It has been torn in breaking down adhesions in cases of fibrous ankylosis of the knee, and is in danger of being wounded, and in fact has been wounded, in performing Macewen's operation of osteotomy of the lower end of the femur for genu valgum. In addition, Spencer records a case m which the popliteal artery was wounded from in front by a stab just below the knee, the knife passing through the interosseous space. The popliteal artery is more frequently the seat of aneurism than is any other artery in the body, with the exception of the thoracic aorta. This is due no doubt in a great measure to the amount of movement to which it is subjected, and to the fact that it is supported by loose and lax tissue only, and not by muscles as is the case with most arteries. Ligature of the popliteal artery is required in cases of wound of that vessel, but for aneurism of the posterior tibial it is preferable to tie the superficial femoral. The popliteal may be tied in the upper or lower part of its course ; but in the middle of the ham the operation is attended with considerable difficulty, from the great depth of the artery, and from the extreme degree of tension of the lateral boundaries of the space. In order to expose the vessel in the upper part of its course, the patient should be placed in the prone position, with the limb extended. An incision about three inches in length should then be made through the integument, along the posterior margin of the Semimembranosus, and the fascia lata having been divided, this muscle must be drawn inwards. The internal popliteal nerve will be first exposed, lying very superficial and external to the artery; beneath this will be seen the popliteal vein, and still deeper, and to its inner side, the artery. The vein and nerve must be cautiously separated from the artery, and the aneurism needle passed around the vessel from without inw^ards. To expose the vessel in the lower part of its course, where the artery lies between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius, the patient should be placed in the same position as in the preceding operation. An incision should then be made through the integument in the middle line, commencing opposite the bend of the knee-joint, care being taken to avoid the external saphenous vein and nerve. After dividing the deep fascia, and separating some dense cellular membrane, the artery, vein, and nerve will be exposed, descending between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius. Some muscular branches of the popliteal should be avoided if possible, or, if divided, tied immediately. The leg being now flexed, in order the more effectually to 'separate the two heads of the Gastrocnemius, the nerve should be drawn inwards and the vein outwards, and the aneurism needle passed between the artery and vein from without inwards. In cases where the artery has been wounded during an osteotomy of the lower end of the femur, it would be most conveniently secured from the front at the inner side of the thigh. The knee is flexed and the limb placed on its outer side. An incision, three inches long, is made parallel to and immediately behind the tendon of the Adductor magnus from the junction of the middle and lower third of the thigh. Skin, superficial and deep fascia are to be divided, care being taken of the internal saphenous vein; the Adductor magnus is to be drawn forwards, and the inner hamstring tendons backwards, and the artery will be found surrounded by fat. The nerve and vein are usually not seen, as they lie to the outer side of the artery. The branches of the popliteal artery are, the Muscular I ^^^P^^'^^^'- Superior Internal Articular. (Inferior or Sural. Azygos Articular. Cutaneous. Inferior External Articular. Superior External Articular. Inferior Internal Articular. The superior muscular "branches, two or three in number, arise from the upper part of the popliteal artery, and are distributed to the Vastus externus and flexor muscles of the thigh ; anastomosing Avith the inferior perforating, and terminal branches of the profunda. The inferior muscular (sural) are two large branches, which are distributed to the two heads of the Gastrocnemius and to the Plantaris muscle. They arise from the popliteal artery opposite the knee-joint. Cutaneous branches descend on each side and in the middle of the limb, between the Gastrocnemius and integument; they arise separately from the popliteal artery, or from some of its branches, and supply the integument of the calf.