753 SIXTH. ABDUCENT incision made through the mucous membrane where it is reflected from the alveolar process on to the lower lip ; or a portion of the nerve has been resected by an incision on the cheek through the Masseter muscle, exposing the outer sm-face of the ramus of the jaw. A trephine was then applied over the position of the inferior dental foramen and the outer table removed, so as to expose the inferior dental canal. The nerve was dissected out of the portion of the canal exposed, and, having been divided after its exit from the mental foramen, it was by traction on the end exposed in the trephine hole, drawn out entire, and cut off as high up as possible.* The inferior dental nerve has also been divided by an incision within the mouth, the bony point guarding the inferior dental foramen forming the guide to the nerve. The buccal nerve may be divided by an incision through the mucous membrane of the mouth and the Buccinator just in front of the anterior border of the ramus of the lower jaw (Stimson). The lingual (gustatory) nerve is occasionally divided with the view of relieving the pain in cancerous disease of the tongue. This may be done in that part of its course where it lies below and behind the last molar tooth. If a line is drawn from the middle of the crown of the last molar tooth to the angle of the jaw it will cross the nerve, which lies about half an inch behind the tooth, parallel to the bulging alveolar ridge on the inner side of the body of the bone. If the knife is entered three-quarters of an inch behind and below the last molar tooth, and carried down to the bone, the nerve will be divided. Plilton divided it opposite the second molar tooth, where it is covered only by the mucous membrane, and Lucas pulls the tongue forwards and over to the opposite side, when the nerve can be seen standing out as a firm cord under the mucous membrane by the side of the tongue, and can be easily seized with a sharp hook and divided, or a portion excised. This is a simple enough operation on the cadaver, but when the disease is extensive and has extended to the floor of the mouth, as is generally the case when division of the nerve is required, the operation is not practicable. Sixth Nerve (fig. 442) The Sixth or Abducent Nerve supplies the External rectus muscle. Its superficial origin is by several filaments from the constricted part of the pyramid, close to the pons, or from the lower border of the pons itself, in the groove between this body and the medulla. Its deep origin is a little lower than the motor root of the fifth, and close to the median line, beneath the anterior portion of the fasciculus teres on the floor of the fourth ventricle. The nerve pierces the dura mater on the basilar surface of the sphenoid bone, runs through a notch immediately below the posterior clinoid process, and enters the cavernous sinus. It passes forwards through the sinus, lying on the outer side of the internal carotid artery. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and lies above the ophthalmic vein, from which it is separated by a lamina of dura mater. It then passes between the two heads of the External rectus, and is distributed to that muscle on its ocular surface. Branches of communicatioji.—It is joined by several filaments from the carotid and cavernous plexus, by one from Meckel's ganglion (Bock), and another from the ophthalmic nerve. The above-mentioned nerve, as well as the third, fourth, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth, as they pass to the orbit, bear a certain relation to each other in the cavernous sinus, at the sphenoidal fissure, and in the cavity of the orbit, which will now be described. In the cavernous sinus (fig. 384), the third, fourth, and ophthalmic division of the fifth are placed on the outer wall of the sinus, in their numerical order, both from above downwards, and from within outwards. The sixth nerve lies at the outer side of the internal carotid artery. As these nerves pass forwards to the sphenoidal fissure, the third and fifth nerves become divided into branches, and the sixth approaches the rest ; so that their relative position becomes considerably changed. In the sphenoidal fissure (fig. 447), the fourth, and the frontal and lachrymal divisions of the ophthalmic lie upon the same plane, the former being most internal, the latter external; and they enter the cavity of the orbit above the muscles. The remaining nerves enter the orbit between the two heads of the External rectus. The superior division of the third is the highest of these; * Mears, Trans. Amer. Surg. Assoc. vol. ii. p. 469. 3C