SESAMOID BONES of tubercular caries from comparatively trivial in]\iries. There are several reasons to accomit for this. They are composed of a delicate cancellated structure, surrounded by intricate synovial membranes. They are situated at the fiu"thest point from the central organ of the circulation and exposed to vicissitudes of temperature ; and, moreover, on their dorsal surface are thinly clad with soft parts which have but a scanty blood-supply. And finally, after slight injuries, they are not maintained in a condition of rest to the same extent as similar injuries in some other parts of the body. Caries of the calcaneum and astragalus may remain limited to the one bone for a long period, but when one of the other bones is affected, the remainder frequently become involved, in consequence of the disease spreading through the large and complicated synovial membrane which is more or less common to these bones. Amputation of the whole or a part of the foot is frequently required either for injury or disease. The principal amputations are as follow : (i) Syme's : amputation at the ankle- joint by a heel-flap, with removal of the malleoli and sometimes a thin slice from the lower end of the tibia. (2) Koux's : amputation at the ankle-joint by a large internal flap. (3) Pirogoff's amputation : removal of the whole of the tarsal bones, except the posterior part of the os calcis and a thin slice from the tibia and fibula including the two malleoli. The sawn sm^face of the os calcis is then tiu'ned up and united to the similar surface of the tibia. (4) Subastragaloid amputation : removal of the foot below the astragalus through the joint between it and the os calcis. This operation has been modified by Hancock, who leaves the posterior third of the os calcis and turns it up against the denuded surface of the astragalus. This latier operation is of doubtful utility and is rarely performed. (5) Chopart's or medio-tarsal: removal of the anterior part of the foot with all the tarsal bones except the os calcis and astragalus; disarticulation being effected through the joints between the scaphoid and cuboid in front, and the astragalus and os calcis behind. (6) Lisfranc's: amputation of the anterior part of the foot through the tarso-metatarsal joints. This has been modified by Hey, who disarticulated through the joints of the four outer metatarsal bones with the tarsus, and sawed off the projecting internal cuneiform ; and by Skey, who sawed off the base of the second metatarsal bone and disarticulated the others. The bones of the tarsus occasionally require removal individually. This is especially the case with the astragalus and os calcis for disease limited to the one bone, or again the astragalus may require excision in cases of subastragaloid dislocation, or, as recommended by Mr. Lund, in cases of inveterate talipes. The cuboid has been removed for the same reason by Mr. Solly. But both these two latter operations have fallen very much into disuse, and have been superseded by resection of a wedge-shaped piece of bone from the outer side of the tarsus. Finally, Mickulicz and Watson have devised operations for the removal of more extensive portions of the tarsus. Mickulicz's operation consists in the removal of the os calcis and astragalus, along with the articular surfaces of the tibia and fibula, and also of the scaphoid and cuboid. The remaining portion of the tarsus is then brought into contact with the sawn surfaces of the tibia and fibula, and fixed there. The result is a position of the shortened foot resembling talipes equinus. Watson's operation is adapted to those cases where the disease is confined to the anterior tarsal bones. By two lateral incisions he saws through the bases of the metatarsal bones in front and opens up the joints between the scaphoid and astragalus, and the cuboid and os calcis, and removes the intervening bones. The metatarsal bones and phalanges are nearly always broken by direct violence, and in the majority of casds the injury is the result of severe crushing accidents, necessitating amputation. The metatarsal bones and especially the one of the great toe, are frequently diseased, either in tubercular subjects or in perforating ulcer of the foot. Sesamoid Bones These are small rounded masses, cartilaginous in early life, osseous in the adult, which are developed in those tendons which exert a great amount of pressure upon the parts over which they glide. It is said that they are more commonly found in the male than in the female, and in persons of an active muscular habit than in those who are weak and debilitated. They are invested throughout their whole surface by the fibrous tissue of the tendon in which they are found, excepting upon that side which lies in contact with the part over which they play, where they present a free articular facet. They may be divided into two kinds : those which glide over the articular surfaces of joints, and those which play over the cartila- ginous facets found on the surfaces of certain bones. The sesamoid bones of the joints in the upper extremity, are two on the palmar surface of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint in the thumb, developed in the tendons of the Flexor brevis poUicis; occasionally one or two opposite the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations of the fore and little fingers ; and, still more rarely, one