SPINAL NERVES 792 It is named, from its origin and distribution, the iutercosto-humeral nerve (fig. 461). It pierces the External intercostal muscle, crosses the axilla to the inner side of the arm, and joins with a filament from the nerve of Wrisberg. It then pierces the fascia, and supplies the skin of the upper half of the inner and back part of the arm, communicating with the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. The size of this nerve is in inverse proportion to the size of the other cutaneous nerves, especially the nerve of Wrisberg. A second intercosto-humeral nerve is frequently given ofi" from the third intercostal. It supplies filaments to the armpit and inner side of the arm. The lower dorsal nerves.—The anterior divisions of the seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh dorsal nerves are continued anteriorly from the intercostal spaces into the abdominal wall, and the twelfth dorsal is continued throughout its whole course in the abdominal wall, since it is placed below the last rib ; hence these nerves are named lotver or abdominal intercostal nerves. They have (with the exception of the last) the same arrangement as the upper ones as far as the anterior extremities of the intercostal spaces, where they pass behind the costal cartilages, and between the Internal oblique and Transversalis muscles, to the sheath of the Rectus, which they perforate. They supply the Rectus muscle, and terminate in branches w^hich become subcutaneous near the linea alba. These branches are named the anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen. They are directed outwards as far as the lateral cutaneous nerves, supplying the integument of the front of the belly. The lower intercostal nerves supply the Intercostals, Serratus posticus inferior, and Abdominal muscles, and, about the middle of their course, give oft' lateral cutaneous branches, which pierce the External intercostal and External oblique muscles, in the same line as the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax, and divide into anterior and posterior branches, which are distributed to the integument of the abdomen and back, the anterior branches passing nearly as far forwards as the margin of the Rectus; the posterior branches passing backwards to supply the skin over the Latissimus dorsi, where they join the dorsal cutaneous nerves. The last dorsal is larger than the other dorsal nerves. Its anterior division runs along the lower border of the last rib in front of the Quadratus lumborum, perforates the Transversalis, and passes forw^ards between it and the Internal oblique, to be distributed in the same manner as the lower intercostal nerves. It communicates with the ilio-hypogastric branch of the lumbar plexus, and is frequently connected with the first lumbar nerve by a slender branch, the do7^si- lunihar nerve, which descends in the substance of the Quadratus lumborum. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal is remarkable for its large size ; it perforates the Internal and External oblique muscles, passes downwards over the crest of the ilium in front of the iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric (fig. 470), and is distributed to the integument of the front of the hip, some of its filaments extending as low down as the trochanter major. It does not divide into an anterior and posterior branch like the other lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves. Surgical Anatomy.—^The lower -seven intercostal nerves and the ilio-hypogastric, from the first lumbar nerve, supply the skin of the abdominal wall. They run downwards and inwards fairly equidistant from each other. The sixth and seventh supply the skin over the ' pit of the stomach '; the eighth corresponds to about the position of the middle linea transversa; the tenth to the umbilicus ; and the ilio-lij'pogastric supplies the skin over the pubes and external abdominal ring. There are several points of surgical import- ance about the distribution of these nerves, and it is important to remember their origin and course, for m many diseases affecting the nerve-trunks at or near the origin, the pain is referred to their peripheral terminations. Thus, in Pott's disease of the spine, children will often be brought to the surgeon suftering from pain in the belly. This is due to the fact that the nerves are irritated at the seat of disease as they issue from the spinal canal. \Vhen the irritation is confined to a single pair of nerves, the sensation complained of is often a feeling of constriction, as if a cord were tied round the abdomen, and in these cases the situation of the sense of constriction may serve to localise the disease in the spinal column. In other cases where the bone disease is more extensive, and two or more nerves are involved, a more general diffused pain in the abdomen is complained of. A similar condition is sometimes present in affections of the cord itself, as in tabes dorsalis.