402 MUSCLES AND FASCIA The Rectus capitis lateralis is a short, flat muscle, which arises from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the under surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the internal jugular vein. By its posterior surface, with the vertebral artery. On its outer side lies the occipital artery ; on its inner side the suboccipital nerve. The Longus Colli is a long, flat muscle, situated on the anterior surface of the spine, between the atlas and the third dorsal vertebra. It is broad in the middle, narrow and pointed at each extremity, and consists of three portions : a superior oblique, an inferior oblique, and a vertical portion. The sujjerior ohliqiie portion arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae ; and, ascending obliquely inwards, is inserted by a narrow tendon into the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas. The inferior oblique 2^ortion, the smallest part of the muscle, arises from the front of the bodies of the first two or three dorsal vertebrae ; and ascending obliquely outwards, is inserted into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. The vertical portion directly on the front of the spine ; it arises, below, from the front of the bodies of the upper three dorsal and lower three cervical vertebrae, and is inserted above into the front of the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae above. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the pharynx, the oesophagus, sympa- thetic nerve, the sheath of the great vessels of the neck, the inferior thyroid artery, and recurrent laryngeal nerve. By its ijosterior surface, with the cervical and dorsal portions of the spine. Its inner border is separated from the opposite muscle by a considerable interval below ; but they approach each other above. 8. Lateral Yeetebeal Eegion Scalenus anticus. Scalenus medius. Scalenus posticus. The Scalenus anticus is a conical-shaped muscle, situated deeply at the side of the neck, behind the Sterno-mastoid. It arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and descending, almost vertically, is inserted by a narrow, fiat tendon into the impression on the inner border and upper surface of the first rib. The lower part of this muscle separates the subclavian artery and vein : the latter being in front, and the former, with the brachial plexus, behind. Relations.—In front, with the clavicle, the Subclavius, Sterno-mastoid, and Omo-hyoid muscles, the transversalis colli, the suprascapular and ascending cervical arteries, the subclavian vein, and the phrenic nerve. By its posterior surface, with the Scalenus medius, pleura, the subclavian artery, and brachial plexus of nerves. It is separated from the Longus colli, on the inner side, by the vertebral artery. On the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, between the attachments of the Scalenus anticus and Longus colli, lies the ascending cervical branch of the inferior thyroid artery. The Scalenus medius, the largest and longest of the three Scaleni, arises from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower six cervical vertebrae, and descending along the side of the vertebral column is inserted by a broad attachment into the upper surface of the first rib, behind the groove for the subclavian artery, as far back as the tubercle. It is separated from the Scalenus anticus by the subclavian artery below, and the cervical nerves above. The posterior thoracic, or nerve of Bell, is formed in the substance of the Scalenus medius and emerges from it. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the Sterno-mastoid ; it is crossed by the clavicle, the Omo-hyoid muscle, subclavian artery, and the cervical nerves. To its outer side is the Levator anguli scapulte, and the Scalenus posticus muscle.