MUSCLES AND FASCI.E 49° will straighten the knee, and therefore assist the trunk in rising into the erect position. The Rectus muscle assists the Psoas and lUacus in supporting the pelvis and trunk upon the femur, or in bending it forwards. Surgical Anaiomy.—A few fibres of the Eectns muscle are liable to be ruptured from severe strain. This accident is especially liable to occur during the games of football and cricket, and is sometimes known as ' cricket thigh.' The patient experiences a sudden pain in the part, as if he had been struck, and the Rectus muscle stands out and is felt to be tense and rigid. The accident is often followed by considerable swellini,^ from inflannnatory effusion. Occasionally the Quadriceps extensor may be torn away from its insertion into the patella ; or the tendon of the patella may be ruptured about an inch above the bone. This accident is caused in the same manner as fracture of the patella by muscular action is produced, viz. by a violent muscular effort to prevent f\illing whilst the knee is in a position of semiflexion. A distinct gap can be felt above the patella, and, owing to the retraction of the muscular fibres, union may fail to take place. Inteenal Femoral Region Gracilis. Adductor longns. Pectineus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. Dissection.—These muscles are at once exposed by removing the fascia from the fore part and inner side of the thigh. The limb should be abducted, so as to render the muscles tense and easier of dissection. The Gracilis (figs. 326, 329) is the most superficial muscle on the inner side of the thigh. It is thin and flattened, broad above, narrow and tapering below. It arises by a thin aponeurosis between two and three inches in breadth, from the lower half of the margin of the symphysis and the inner margin of the descending ramus of the os pubis. The fibres pass vertically downwards, and terminate in a rounded tendon, which passes behind the internal condyle of the femur, and, curving round the inner tuberosity of the tibia, becomes flattened, and is inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, below the tuberosity. The tendon of this muscle is situated immediately above that of the Semitendinosus, and is surrounded by the tendon of the Sartorius with which it is in part blended. As it passes across the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, it is separated from it by a synovial bursa common to it and the Semitendinosus mjiscle. Relations.—By its superficial surface, Avith the fascia lata and the Sartorius below ; the internal saphenous vein crosses it obliquely near its lower part, lying superficial to the fascia lata. The internal saphenous nerve emerges between its tendon and that of the Sartorius. By its deep surface, with the Adductor brevis and the Adductor magnus, and the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The Pectineus (fig. 326) is a flat, quadrangular muscle, situated at the anterior part of the upper and inner aspect of the thigh. It arises from the linea ilio- pectinea, from the surface of bone in front of it, between the pectineal eminence and spine of the os pubis, and from the fascia covering the anterior surface of the muscle ; the fibres pass dowmvards, backwards, and outwards, to be inserted into a rough line leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the pubic portion of the fascia lata, w^hicli separates it from the femoral vessels and internal saphenous vein. By its posterior surface, with the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, the Adductor brevis and Obturator externus muscles, the obturator vessels and nerve being interposed. By its outer border, with the Psoas, a cellular interval separating them, through which passes the internal circumflex vessels. By its inner border, with the margin of the Adductor longus. The Adductor longus, the most superficial of the three Adductors, is a flat triangular muscle, lying on the same plane as the Pectineus. It arises, by a flat narrow tendon, from the front of the os pubis, at the angle of junction of the crest with the symphysis ; and soon expands into a broad fleshy belly, which, passing