272 THE SKELETON Fig. 223.—Plan of the develoiDinent of the fibula. By three centres. Upper extremity Appears ah out ^-i^^ Unites about Uhyear (Ss' 25^7i ?/ea>- Development.—By three centres (fig. 223): one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the shaft about the eighth week of foetal life, a little later than in the tibia, and extends gradually towards the extremities. At birth both ends are cartila- ginous. Ossification commences in the lower end in the second year, and in the upper one about the fourth year. The lower epiphysis, the first in which ossification commences, be- comes united to the shaft about the twentieth year; the upper epiphysis joins about the twenty-fifth year. Ossification appearing first in the lower epiphysis is contrary to the rule which prevails with regard to the commence- ment of ossification in epiphyses, viz. that that epiphysis towards which the nutrient artery is directed commences to ossify last; but it follows the rule which prevails with regard to the union of epiphyses, by uniting first. Attachment of Muscles.—To nine: to the head, the Biceps, Soleus, and Peroneus longus ; to the shaft, its anterior surface, the Exten- sor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, and Extensor proprius hallucis; to the internal surface, the Tibialis posticus ; to the posterior surface, the Soleus and Flexor longus hallucis ; to the external surface, the Peroneus longus and brevis. Appears at- 2nd year Unites about 20th year Loiver extremity Surface Form.—The only parts of the fibula which are to be felt are the head and the lower part of the external surface of the shaft and the external malleolus. The head is to be seen and felt behind and to the outer side of the outer tuberosity of the tibia. It presents a small, prominent, triangular eminence slightly above the level of the tubercle of the tibia. The external malleolus presents a narrow elongated prominence, situated on a plane posterior to the internal malleolus and reaching to a lower level. From it may be traced the lower third or half of the external surface of the shaft of the bone in the interval between the Peroneus tertius in front and the other two Peronei tendons behind. Surgical Anatomy.-—In fractures of the bones of the leg, both bones are usually fractured, but each bone may be broken separately, the fibula more frequently than the tibia. Fracture of both bones may be caused either by direct or indirect violence. When it occiu-s from indirect force, the fracture in the tibia is at the junction of the middle and lower third of the bone. Many causes conduce to render this the weakest part of the bone. The fracture of the fibula is usually at rather a higher level. These fractures present great variety, both as regards their direction and condition. They may be oblique, transverse, longitudinal, or spiral. "When oblique, they are usually the result of indirect violence, and the direction of the fracture is from behind, downwards, forwards, and inwards in many cases, but may be downwards and outwards, or downwards and backwards. When trans- verse, the fracture is often at the upper part of the bone, and is the result of direct violence. The spiral fracture usually commences as a vertical fissure, involving the ankle-joint, and is associated with fi-acture of the fibula higher up. It is the result of torsion, from twisting of the body whilst the foot is fixed. Fractures of the tibia alone are almost always the result of direct violence, except where the malleolus is broken off by twists of the foot. Fractures of the fibula alone may arise from indirect or direct force, those of the lower end being usually the result of the former, and those higher up being caiised by a direct blow on the part. The tibia and fibula, like the femur, are frequently the seat of acute necrosis. Chronic abscess^ is more fi-equently met with in the cancellous tissue of the head and lower end of the tibia than in any other bone of the body. The abscess is of small size, very chronic, and the result of rarefymg osteitis of a localised portion of the cancellous tissue. The tibia is the bone which is most frequently and most extensively distorted in rickets. It gives way at the jimction of the middle and lower third, its weakest part, and presents a curve forwards and outwards.