172 THE SKELETON The Vomer The Vomer (vomer, a ploughshare) is a single bone, situated vertically at the back part of the nasal fossae, forming part of the septum of the nose. It is thin, somewhat like a ploughshare in form ; but it varies in different individuals, being frequently bent to one or the other side ; it presents for examination two surfaces and four borders. The lateral surfaces are smooth, marked by small furrows for the lodgment of blood-vessels, and by a groove on each side, sometimes a canal, the naso-palatine, which runs Fig. 165.—The vomer. obliquely downwards and for- wards to the intermaxillary suture ; it transmits the naso- palatine nerve. The superior border, the thickest, presents a deep groove, bounded on each side by a horizontal pro- jecting ala of bone ; the groove receives the rostrum of the sphenoid, whilst the alae are overlapped and retained by laminae (the vaginal processes) which project from the under surface of the body of the sphenoid at the base of the pterygoid processes. At the front of the groove a fissure is left for the transmission of blood-vessels to the substance of the bone. The inferior border, the longest, is broad and uneven in front, where it articulates with the two superior maxillary bones ; thin and sharp behind, where it joins with the palate-bones. The upper half of the anterior border usually consists of two laminae of bone, between which is received the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid ; the lower half, also separated into two lamellae, receives between them the lower margin of the triangular cartilage of the nose. The posterior border is free, concave, and separates the j nasal fossae behind. It is thick and bifid above, thin below. ! The surfaces of the vomer are covered by mucous membrane, which is intimately I connected with the periosteum, with the intervention of very little, if any, sub-, mucous connective tissue. Hence polypi are rarely found growing from this surface, | though they frequently grow from the outer wall of the nasal fossae, where thej submucous tissue is abundant. I Development.—The vomer at an early period consists of two laminae, separatedj by a very considerable interval, and enclosing between them a plate of cartilage,; which is prolonged forwards to form the remainder of the septum. Ossification commences in it by a single centre about the eighth week. From this nucleus the two laminae are formed. They begin to coalesce at the lower part, but their uniot is not complete until after puberty. Articulations.—With six bones : two of the cranium, the sphenoid and ethmoid: and four of the face, the two superior maxillary and the two palate-bones ; and witt the cartilage of the septum. The vomer has no muscles attached to it. The Infeeior Maxillary Bone The Inferior Maxillary Bone (the Mandible), the largest and strongest boni of the face, serves for the reception of the lower teeth. It consists of a curved I horizontal portion, the body, and two perpendicular portions, the rami, which joi]| the back part of the body nearly at right angles. I The Horizontal Portion, or Body (fig. 166), is convex in its general outline, an«j|