CONSTRUCTION OF THE FOOT 283 Development of the Foot (fig. 226) The Tarsal bones are each developed by a single centre, excepting the os calcis, which has an epiphysis for its posterior extremity. The centres make their appear- ance in the following order : os calcis, at the sixth month of foetal life ; astragalus, about the seventh month ; cuboid, at the ninth month ; external cuneiform, during the first year ; internal cuneiform in the third year; middle cuneiform and navicular in the fourth year. The epiphysis for the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis appears at the tenth year, and unites with the rest of the bone soon after puberty. The Metatarsal bones are each developed by tioo centres: one for the shaft, and one for the digital extremity, in the four outer metatarsal; one for the shaft, and one for the base, in the metatarsal bone of the great toe.* Ossification commences in the centre of the shaft about the ninth week, and extends towards either extremity. The centre in the proximal end of the first metatarsal bone appears about the third year ; the centre in the distal end of the other bones between the fifth and eighth year ; they become joined between the eighteenth and twentieth years. The Phalanges are developed by tioo centres for each bone : one for the shaft, and one for the metatarsal extremity. Construction of the Foot as a Whole The foot is constructed on the same principles as the hand, but modified to form a firm basis of support for the rest of the body when in the erect position. It is more solidly constructed, and its component parts are less movable on each other than in the hand. This is especially the case with the great toe, which has to assist in supporting the body and is therefore constructed with greater solidity; it lies parallel with the other toes, and has a very limited degree of mobility, whereas the thumb, which is occupied in numerous and varied movements, is constructed in such a manner as to permit of great mobility. Its metacarpal bone is directed away from the others, so as to form an acute angle with the second, and it enjoys a considerable range of motion at its articulation with the carpus. The foot is placed at right angles to the leg—a position which is almost peculiar to man, and has relation to the erect position which he maintains. In order to allow of its supporting the weight of the whole body in this position, with the least expenditure of material, it is constructed in the form of an arch. This arch is not, however, made up of two equal limbs. The hinder one, which is made up of the os calcis and the posterior part of the astragalus, is about half the length of the anterior limb, and measures about three inches. The anterior limb consists of the rest of the tarsal and the metatarsal bones, and measures about six inches. It may be said to consist of two parts, an inner segment made up of the head of the astragalus, the navicular, the three cuneiform, and the three inner metatarsal bones ; and an outer segment composed of the cuboid and the two outer metatarsal bones. The summit of the arch is at the superior articular surface of the astragalus ; and its two extremities, that is to say the two points on which the arch rests in standing, are the tubercles on the under surface of the os calcis posteriorly, and the heads of the metatarsal bones anteriorly. The weakest part of the arch is the joint between the astragalus and scaphoid, and here it is more liable to yield in those who are overweighted, and in those in Avhom the ligaments which complete and preserve the arch are relaxed. This weak point in the arch is braced on its concave surface by the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament, which is more elastic than most other ligaments, and thus allows the arch to yield from jars or shocks applied to the anterior portion of the foot and quickly restores it to its pristine condition. This ligament is supported on its under surface by the tendon of the Tibialis posticus * As was noted in the first metacarpal bone, so in the first metatarsal, there is often to be observed a tendency to the formation of a second epiphysis in the distal extremity (see footnote, p. 244).