895 THE (ESOPHAGUS absent, or only represented by a few scattered bundles ; lower down it forms a considerable stratum. The esophageal glands are numerous small compound racemose glands scattered throughout the tube ; they are lodged in the submucous tissue, and open upon the surface by a long excretory duct. They are most numerous at the lower part of the tube, where they form a ring round the cardiac orifice. Vessels of the oesophagus.—The arteries supplying the oesophaLgus are derived from the inferior thyroid branch of the thyroid axis of the subclavian ; from the descending thoracic aorta, and from the gastric branch of the coeliac axis from the abdominal aorta. They have for the most part a longitudinal direction. Nerves of the oesophagus.—The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and from the sympathetic ; they form a plexus, in which are groups of ganglion cells, between the two layers of the muscular coats, and also a second plexus in the submucous tissue. Surgical Anatomy.—The relations of the oeso- phagus are of considerable practical interest to the surgeon, as he is frequently required, ih cases of stric- ture of this tube, to dilate the canal by a bougie, when it is of importance that the direction of the oesophagus, and its relations to surrounding parts, should be re- membered. In cases of malignant disease of the oesophagus, where its tissues have become softened from infiltration of the morbid deposit, the greatest care is requisite in (,lirecting the bougie through the strictured part, as a false passage may easily be made, and the instrument may pass into the mediastinum, or into one or the other pleural cavity, or even into the pericardium. The student should also remember that contraction of the oesophagus, and consequent symptoms of stric- ture, are occasionally produced b}^ an aneurism of some part of the aorta pressing upon this tube. In such a case, the passage of a bougie could only hasten the fatal issue. In passing a bougie the left forefinger should be introduced into the mouth, and the epiglottis felt for, care being taken not to throw the head too far back- wards. The bougie is then to be passed beyond the finger until it touches the posterior wall of the pharynx. The patient is now asked to swallow, and at the moment of swallowing the bougie is passed gently onwards, all violence being carefully avoided. It occasionally happens that a foreign body be- comes impacted in the oesophagus, which can neither be brought upwards nor moved downwards. When all ordinary means for its removal have failed, excision is the only resource. This, of course, can only be per- formed when it is not very low down. If the foreign bod}^ is allowed to remain, extensive inflammation and ulceration of the oesophagns may ensue. In one case the foreign body ultimately penetrated the intervertebral substance, and destroyed life by inflammation of the mem- branes and substance of the cord. The operation of oesophagotomy is thus performed. The patient being placed upon his back, with the head and shoulders slightly elevated, an incision, about four inches in length, should be made on the left side of the trachea, from the thyroid cartilage downwards, dividing the skin and Platysma. The edges of the wound being separated, the Omo-hyoid muscle should, if necessar3^, be divided, and the fibres of the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno- thyroid muscles drawn inwards ; the sheath of the carotid vessels being exposed, should be drawn outwards, and retained in that position by retractors : the oesophagus will now be exposed, and should be divided over the foreign body, which can then be removed. Great care is necessary to avoid wounding the thyroid vessels, the thyroid gland, and the laryngeal nerves. The oesophagus may be obstructed not only by foreign bodies, but also by changes in its coats, producing stricture, or by pressure on it from without of new growths or aneurism, etc. Fig. 520.—Accessory muscular fibres between the oesophagus and pleura, and oesophagus and trachea. (From a prepara- tion in the Museum of the Koyal College of Surgeons.)