533 LINGUAL bonring muscles and integument. There is also often a distinct branch from the external carotid distributed to the Sterno-mastoid muscle. The superior laryngeal, larger than either of the preceding, accompanies the superior laryngeal nerve, beneath the Thyro-hyoid muscle ; it pierces the thyro- hyoid membrane, and supplies the muscles, mucous membrane, and glands of the larynx, anastomosing with the branch from the opposite side. The crico-thyroid is a small branch which runs transversely across the crico- thyroid membrane, communicating with the artery of the opposite side. Surgical Anatomy.—The superior thyroid, or some of its branches, is often divided in cases of cut throat, giving rise to considerable haemorrhage. In such cases, the artery should be secured, the wound being enlarged for that purpose, if necessary. The opera- tion may be easily performed, the position of the artery being very superficial, and the only structures of importance covering it being a few small veins. The operation of tying the superior thyroid artery, in bronchocele, has been performed in numerous instances with partial or temporary success. When, however, the collateral circulation between this vessel and the artery of the opposite side, and the inferior thyroid, is completely re-established, the tumour usually regains its former size. The position of the superficial descending branch is of importance in connection with the operation of ligature of the common carotid artery. It crosses and lies on the sheath of this vessel and may chance to be wounded in opening the sheath. The position of the crico-thyroid branch should be remembered, as it may prove the source of troublesome haemorrhage during the operation of laryngotomy. The Lingual Artery (fig. 352) arises from the external carotid between the superior thyroid and facial; it runs obliquely upwards and inwards to the great cornu of the hyoid bone, then passes horizontally forwards parallel with the great cornu, and, ascending perpendicularly to the under surface of the tongue, turns forwards on its under surface as far as the tip of that organ, under the name of the rmiine artery. Relations.—Its first, or oblique, portion is superficial, being contained in the triangular space already described, resting upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and covered by the Platysma, and fascia of the neck. Its second, or horizontal, portion also lies upon the Middle constrictor, being covered at first by the tendon of the Digastric and the Stylo-hyoid muscle, and afterwards by the Hyo-glossus, the latter muscle separating it from the hypoglossal nerve. Its third, or ascending, portion lies between the Hyo-glossus and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles. The fourth, or terminal, part, under the name of the ranine, runs along the under surface of the tongue to its tip : it is very superficial, being covered only by the mucous membrane, and rests on the Lingualis on the outer side of the Genio-hyo-glossus. The hypoglossal nerve crosses the lingual artery, and then becomes separated from it, in the second part of its course, by the Hyo-glossus muscle. The branches of the lingual artery are, the The hyoid branch runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone, supplying the muscles attached to it and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. The dorsalis linguae (fig. 352) arises from the lingual artery beneath the Hyo- glossus muscle (which, in the figure, has been partly cut away, to show the vessel) ; ascending to the dorsum of the tongue, it supplies the mucous membrane, the tonsil, soft palate, and epiglottis; anastomosing with its fellow from the opposite side. The sublingual, which may be described as a branch of bifurcation of the lingual artery, arises at the anterior margin of the Hyo-glossus muscle, and runs forwards between the Genio-hyo-glossus and the sublingual gland. It supplies the substance of the gland, giving branches to the Mylo-hyoid and neighbouring muscles, the mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. One branch runs behind the alveolar process of the lower jaw in the substance of the gum to anastomose with a similar artery from the other side. Hyoid. Dorsalis Linguae. Sublingual. Ranine.