OF THE PELVIS 313 in breadth, and is prolonged forwards along the inner margin of the ramus, forming what is known as the falciform ligament. The free concave edge of this |)rolonga- tion has attached to it the obturator fascia, with which it forms a kind of groove, protecting the internal pudic vessels and nerve. One of its surfaces is turned towards the perinasum, the other towards the Obturator internus muscle. The posterior surface of this ligament gives origin, by its whole extent, to fibres of the Gluteus maximus. Its anterior surface is united to the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. Its external border forms, above, the posterior boundary of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and, below, the lower boundary of the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. Its loioer border forms part of the boundary of the perinaeum. It is pierced by the coccygeal branch of the sciatic artery and coccygeal nerve. The iesser or Anterior Sacro-sciatic Ligament, much shorter and smaller than the preceding, is thin, triangular in form, attached by its apex to the spine of the ischium, and internally, by its broad base, to the lateral margin of the sacrum and coccyx, anterior to the attachment of the great sacro-sciatic ligament with which its fibres are intermingled. It is in relation, anteriorly, with the Coccygeus muscle ; posteriorly, it is covered by the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and crossed by the internal pudic vessels and nerve. Its superior border forms the lower boundary of the great sacro-sciatic foramen ; its inferior border, part of the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. These two ligaments convert the sacro-sciatic notches into foramina. The superior or great sacro-sciatic foramen is bounded, in front and above, by the posterior border of the os innominatum; behind, by the great sacro-sciatic ligament; and below, by the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. It is partially filled up, in the recent state, by the Pyriformis muscle which passes through it. Above this muscle, the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve emerge from the pelvis ; and below it, the sciatic vessels and nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, and muscular branches from the sacral plexus. The inferior or lesser sacro-sciatic foramen is bounded, in front, by the tuber ischii; above, by the spine and lesser sacro-sciatic ligament; behind, by the greater sacro-sciatic ligament. It transmits the tendon of the Obturator internus muscle, its nerve, and the internal pudic vessels and nerve. 3. Articulation of the Sacrum and Coccyx This articulation is an amphiarthrodial joint, formed between the oval surface at the apex of the sacrum, and the base of the coccyx. It is analogous to the joints between the bodies of the vertebrae, and is connected by similar ligaments. They are the Anterior Sacro-coccygeah Lateral Sacro-coccygeal. Posterior Sacro-coccygeal. Interposed Fibro-cartilage. The Anterior Sacro-coccygeal Ligament consists of a few irregular fibres, which descend from the anterior surface of the sacrum to the front of the coccyx, becoming blended with the periosteum. The Posterior Sacro-coccygeal Ligament is a flat band of ligamentous fibres, of a pearly tint, which arises from the margin of the lower orifice of the sacral canal, and descends to be inserted into the posterior surface of the coccyx. This ligament completes the lower and back part of the sacral canal. Its superficial fibres are much longer than the more deeply seated. This ligament is in relation, behind, with the Gluteus maximus. The Lateral Sacro-coccygeal Ligaments are ligamentous bands which pass from the cornua of the last sacral vertebra to the cornua of the first piece of the coccyx. A Fibro-cartilage is interposed between the contiguous surfaces of the sacrum and coccyx; it differs from that interposed between the bodies of the vertebra3 in being thinner, and its central part firmer in texture. It is somewhat thicker in front and behind than at the sides. Occasionally, a synovial membrane is found