583 ULNAR pisiform bone, and immediately beyond this bone divides into two branches, superficial and deep palmar. Relations in the Forearm.—In its upper half, it is deeply seated, being covered by all the superficial flexor muscles, excepting the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; it is crossed by the median nerve, which lies to its inner side for about an inch, and it lies upon the Brachialis anticus and Flexor profundus digitorum muscles. In the loioer half of the forearm, it lies upon the Flexor profundus, bemg covered by the integument, the superficial and deep fasciae, and is placed between the Flexor carpi ulnaris and Flexor sublimis digitorum muscles. It is accompanied by two venae comites ; the ulnar nerve lies on its inner side for the lower two- thirds of its extent, and a small branch from the nerve descends on the lower part of the vessel to the palm of the hand. Plan of PiElatioxs of the Ulnae Arteey in the Foeeaem In frcmt. Superficial layer of flexor muscles. : , ,^ Median nerve. j^PPerhalf. Superficial and deep fascicP. Lower half. Inner side. / \ Older side. Flexor carpi ulnaris. \ in Forearm. I Flexor sublimis digitorum. Ulnar nerve (lower.two-thirds). Behind. BrachiaHs anticus. Flexor profundus digitorum. At the wrist (fig. 364), the ulnar artery is covered by the integument and fascia, and lies upon the anterior annular ligament. On its inner side is the pisiform bone. The ulnar nerve lies at the inner side, and somewhat behind the artery. FecuUarities.—The ulnar artery has been found to vary in its origin nearly in the proportion of one in thirteen cases, in one case arising lower than usual, about two or three inches below the elbow, and in all other cases much higher, the brachial being a more frequent source of origin than the axillary. A^ariations in the position of this vessel are more fiequent than in the radial. AVhen its origin is normal, the com\se of the vessel is rarely changed. "When it arises high up, it is almost invariably superficial to the flexor muscles in the forearm, lying commonly beneath the fascia, more rarety between the fascia and integument. In a few cases, its position was subcutaneous in the upper part of the forearm, sabaponem-otic in the lower part. Surface Marhing.—On account of the curved direction of the ulnar arterj', the line on the surface of the body which indicates its course is sumev/hat comi^licated. First, draw a line from the front of the internal condyle of the humerus to the radial side of the pisiform bone ; the lower two-thirds of this line represents the com-se of the middle and lower third of the uhiar artery. Secondly, draw a line fi-om the centre of the hoUow in front of the elbow-jomt to the junction of the upper and middle third of the first line ; this represents the course of the upper third of the artery. Surgical Anatomy.—The api:)lication of a hgatui'e to this vessel is requh^ed m cases of wound of the artery, or of its branches, or in consequence of aneurism. In the upper half of the forearm, the artery is deeply seated beneath the superficial fiexor muscles, and the application of a ligatm-e in this situation is attended with some dilficulty. An incision is to be made in the course of a Ime drawn from the fi'ont of the mternal condyle of the hmnerus to the outer side of the pisiform bone, so that the centre of the incision is three fingers' breadth below the internal condyle. The skm and superficial fascia having been divided, and the deep fascia exposed, the white line which separates the Flexor carpi ulnaris fi^om the other flexor muscles is to be sought for, and the fascia mcised in this hue. The Flexor carpi idnaris is now to be carefuUy separated from the other muscles, when the idnar nerve will be exposed and must be drawn aside. Some little distance below the nerve, the artery will be found accompanied by its vense comites, and may be ligatirred by- passing the needle from within outwards. In the middle and lower third of the forearm,