THE RETINA 845 granular appearance. It differs, however, from the inner molecular layer in con- taining branched stellate cells, the processes of which are extremely fine and exhibit varicosities, like nerve-fibrils. They are therefore considered by Schultze to be ganglion-cells. 7. The outer nuclear layer.—Like the inner nuclear layer, this layer contains several strata of clear oval nuclear bodies ; they are of two kinds, and on account of their being respectively connected with the rods and cones of Jacob's membrane, are named rod-granules and cone-granules. The rod-granules are much the more numerous, and are placed at different levels throughout the layer. They present a peculiar cross-striped appearance, and have prolonged from either extremity a fine process : the outermost is continuous with a single rod of Jacob's membrane ; the innermost passes inwards towards the outer molecular layer and terminates in an enlarged extremity, from which are given off a number of minute fibrils, which enter the outer molecular layer. In its course it presents numerous varicosities. The cone-granules, fewer in number than the rod-granules, are placed close to the membrana limitans externa, and are closely connected with the cones of Jacob's membrane. They do not present any cross-striping, but contain a pyriform nucleus, which almost completely fills the cell. From their inner extremity a thick process passes inwards to the outer molecular layer ; where, like the processes of the rod-cells, it terminates in an enlargement, from which are given off numerous fine fibrils, which enter the outer molecular layer. 8. The memhrana limitans externa.—This layer, like the membrana limitans interna, is derived from the fibres of Miiller, with which structures it will be described. 9. Jacob's membrane (hacillary layer).—The elements which compose this layer are of two kinds, rods and cones, the former being much more numerous than the latter. The rods are solid, of nearly uniform size, and arranged perpendicularly to the surface. Each rod consists of two portions, an outer and inner, which are joined together by a cement-substance and are of about equal length. They differ from each other as regards refraction and in their behaviour with colouring reagents, the inner portion becoming stained by carmine, iodine, etc., the outer portion remaining unstained. The outer portion of each rod is marked by transverse strife, and is made up of a number of thin discs superimposed on one another. It also exhibits faint longitudinal markings. The inner portion of each rod, at its inner extremity where it is joined to the processes of the rod-granules, is indistinctly granular; at its outer extremity it. presents a fine longitudinal striation, being- composed of fine, bright, highly refracting fibrils. The cones are conical or flask-shaped, their broad ends resting upon the membrana limitans externa, the narrow pointed extremity being turned to the choroid. Like the rods, they are made up of two portions, outer and inner ; the outer portion being a short conical process, which, like the outer segment of the rods, presents transverse stri^. The inner portion resembles the inner portion of the rods in structure, presenting an outer striated and an inner granular appearance ; but differs from it in size, being bulged out laterally and presenting a flask shape. 10. The pigmentary layer, or tapetum nigrum.—The most external layer of the retina, formerly regarded as a part of the choroid, consists of a single layer of hexagonal epithelium cells, loaded with pigment-granules (fig. 21). In the eyes of albinos, the cells of the pigmentary layer are present, but they contain no colouring matter. In many of the mammals also, as in the horse, and many of the carnivora, there is no pigment in the cells of this layer, and the choroid possesses a beautiful iridescent lustre, which is termed the tapetiim lucidum. Connective-tissue frameioork of the retina.—Almost all these layers of the retina are connected together by a sort of supporting connective tissue, which has been named the fibres of Miiller, or radiating fibres, from which the membrana limitans interna et externa are derived. These fibres are found stretched between the two limiting layers, ' as columns between a floor and a ceiling,' and passing through all the nervous layers, except Jacob's membrane. They commence on