735 CRANIAL NERVES from a nucleus of grey matter at the back of the medulla, extending from the level of the top of the calamus scriptorius as far down as the interniedio-lateral tract of the spinal cord. The deep origin of the twelfth, or hypoglossal, is from a nucleus of grey matter on the floor of the ventricle, on either side of the middle line extending from the level of the auditory stride to the lowest point of the ventricle of Arantius. CRANIAL NERVES The cranial nerves arise from some part of the cerebro-spinal centre, and are transmitted through foramina in the base of the cranium. They have been named numerically, according to the order in which they pass through the dura mater lining the base of the skull. Other names are also given to them derived from the parts to which they are distributed, or from their functions. Taken in their order, from before backwards, they are as follows :— ist. Olfactory. yth. Facial (Portio dura). 2nd. Optic. 8th. Auditory (Portio mollis). 3rd. Motor oculi. 9th. Glosso-pharyngeal. 4th. Pathetic. loth. Pneumogastric (Par vagum). 5th. Trifacial (Trigeminus). nth. Spinal accessory. 6th. Abducent. 12th. Hypoglossal. All the cranial nerves are connected to some part of the surface of the brain. This is termed their superficial or ayiKvrent origin. But their fibres may, in all cases, be traced deeply into the substance of the brain to some special centre of grey matter, termed a nucleus. This is called their deep or real origin. The nerves, after emerging from the brain at their apparent origin, pass through foramina or tubular prolongations in the dura mater, leave the skull through foramina in its base, and pass to their final distribution. First Neeve (fig. 423, page 708) The First Cranial or Olfactory Nerves, the special nerves of the sense of smell, are abcait twenty in number. They are given off from the under surface of the olfactory bulb, an oval mass of a greyish colour, which rests on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and forms the anterior expanded extremity of a slender process of brain-substance, named the olfactory tract (see page 709). The olfactory tract, when traced backwards, divides into three slips or roots at its base. The middle root is attached to the under surface of the frontal lobe, just in front of the anterior perforated space. The external root passes outwards, round the anterior perforated space, across the fissure of Sylvius to the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The internal root passes inwards, and joins the lower end of the corpus callosum. These three roots unite, and form a flat band, narrower in the middle than at either extremity, and of a somewhat prismoid form on section. It is soft in texture and contains a considerable amount of grey matter in its substance. As it passes forwards, it is contained in a deep sulcus, the olfactory sulcus, between two convolutions, lying on the under surface of the frontal lobe, on either side of the longitudinal fissure, and is retained in position by the arachnoid membrane which covers it. On reaching the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, it expands into the olfactory bulb. From the under part of this bulb are given off the olfactory nerves, which pass through the cribriform foramina, and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the nose. Each nerve is surrounded by a tubular prolonga- tion from the dura mater and pia mater ; the former being lost on the periosteum lining the nose; the latter, in the neurilemma of the nerve. The nerves, as they