537 OCCIPITAL from the lips, the result either of an accidental wound or during an operation; but its application is useless, except for a very short time, on account of the free communication of this vessel with its fellow, and with numerous branches from different sources. In a wound involving the lip, it is better to seize the part between the hngers, and evert it, when the bleeding vessel may be at once secured with pressure-forceps. In order to prevent haemorrhage in cases of removal of diseased growths from the part, the lip should be compressed on each side between the fingers and thumb, or by a pair of specially devised clamp-forceps, whilst the surgeon excises the diseased part. In order to stop haemorrhage where the lip has been divided in an operation, it is necessary, in uniting the edges of the wound, to pass the sutures through the cut edges, almost as deep as its mucous surface; by these means, not only are the cut surfaces more neatlj" and securely adapted to each other, but the possibility of haemorrhage is prevented by including in the suture the divided artery. If the suture is, on the contrary, passed through merely the cutaneous portion of the wound, haemorrhage occurs into the cavity of the mouth. The student should, lastly, observe the relation of the angular artery to the lachrymal sac, and it will be seen that, as the vessel passes up along the inner margin of the orbit, it ascends on its nasal side. In operating for fistula lachrymalis, the sac should always be opened on its outer side, in order that this vessel may be avoided. The Occipital Artery (fig. 349) arises from the posterior part of the external carotid, opposite the facial, near the lower margin of the Digastric muscle. At its origin, it is covered by the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and the hypoglossal nerve winds around it from behind forwards ; higher up, it passes across the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumo- gastric and spinal accessory nerves ; it then ascends to the interval between the transverse process of the atlas, and the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and passes horizontally backwards, grooving the surface of the latter bone, being covered by the Sterno-mastoid, Splenius, Trachelo-mastoid, and Digastric muscles, and resting upon the Rectus lateralis, the Superior oblique, and Complexus muscles ; it then changes its course and passes vertically upwards, pierces the fascia which connects the cranial attachment of the Trapezius with the Sterno-mastoid, and ascends in a tortuous course over the occiput, as high as the vertex, where it divides into numerous branches. It is accompanied in the latter part of its course by the great ocdpital and a cutaneous filament from the suboccipital nerve. The branches given off from this vessel are,— The muscular branches supply the Digastric, Stylo-hyoid, Splenius, and Trachelo-mastoid muscles. The sterno-mastoid is a large and constant branch, generally arising from the artery close to its commencement. It first passes upwards and backwards, and then turns downwards over the hypoglossal nerve, and enters the substance of the muscle, frequently in company with the spinal accessory nerve. The auricular branch supplies the back part of the concha. It frequently gives off a branch, which enters the skull through the mastoid foramen and supplies the dura mater. The meningeal branch ascends with the internal jugular vein, and enters the skull through the foramen lacerum posterius, to supply the dura mater in the posterior fossa. The arteria princeps cervicis (fig. 352) is a large branch which descends along the back part of the neck, and divides into a superficial and deep branch. The former runs beneath the Splenius, giving off branches which perforate that muscle to supply the Trapezius, anastomosing with the superficial cervical artery, a branch of the transversalis colli: the latter passes beneath the Complexus, between it and the Semispinalis colli, and anastomoses with branches from the vertebral and with the deep cervical artery, a branch of the superior intercostal. The anastomosis between these vessels serves mainly to establish the collateral circula- tion after ligature of the carotid or subclavian artery. The cranial branches of the occipital artery are distributed upon the occiput ; Muscular. Sterno-mastoid. Auricular. Meningeal. Arteria Princeps Cervicis.