ORGANS OF DIGESTION 894 intervertebral disc between the tenth and eleventh dorsal vertebrae. The general direction of the cesophagns is vertical; but it presents two or three slight curves in its course. At its commencement it is placed in the median line ; but it inclines to the left side as far as the root of the neck, gradually passes to the middle line again, and finally again deviates to the left as it passes forwards to the oesophageal opening of the Diaphragm. The oesophagus also presents an antero-posterior flexure, corresponding to the curvature of the cervical and thoracic portions of the spine. It is the narrowest part of the alimentary canal, being most contracted at its commencement, and at the point where it passes through the Diaphragm. Eelations.—In the neck, the oesophagus is in relation, i)i front, with the trachea; and, at the lower part of the neck, where it projects to the left side, with the thyroid gland and thoracic duct ; behind, it rests upon the vertebral column and Longi colli muscles; on each side, it is in relation with the common carotid artery (especially the left, as it inclines to that side), and part of the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland; the recurrent laryngeal nerves ascend between it and the trachea. In the thorax, it is at first situated a little to the left of the median line ; it then passes behind the left side of the aortic arch, and descends in the posterior mediastinum, along the right side of the aorta, nearly to the Diaphragm, where it passes in front and a little to the left of the artery, previous to entering the abdomen. It is in relation, in front, with the trachea, the arch of the aorta, left carotid, and left subclavian arteries, the left bronchus, and the posterior surface of the pericardium ; behind, it rests upon the vertebral column, the Longi colli muscles, and the intercostal vessels ; and below, near the Diaphragm, upon the front of the aorta ; laterally, it is covered by the pleurae : the vena azygos major lies on the right, and the descending aorta on the left side. The pneiimogastric nerves descend in close contact Avith it, the right nerve passing down behind, and the left nerve in front of it. Structure.—The oesophagus has three coats : an external or muscular ; a middle or areolar ; and an internal or mucous coat. The muscular coat is composed of two planes of fibres of considerable thickness : an external longitudinal, and an internal circular. The longitudinal fibres are arranged, at the commencement of the tube, in three fasciculi: one in front, which is attached to the vertical ridge on the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage ; and one at each side, which is continuous with the fibres of the Inferior constrictor : as they descend they blend together, and form a uniform layer, which covers the outer surface of the tube. Accessory slips of muscular fibres are described by Dr. Cunningham as passing between the oesophagus and the pleura, where it covers the thoracic aorta (almost always), or the root of the left bronchus (usually), or the back of the pericardium, or corner of the mediastinum (more rarely), as well as other still more rare accessory fibres. In fig. 520, taken from a dissection in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, several of these accessory slips may be seen passing from the oesophagus to the pleura, and two slips to the back of the trachea just above its bifurcation. The circular fibres are continuous above with the Inferior constrictor ; their direction is transverse at the upper and lower parts of the tube, but oblique in the central part. The muscular fibres in the upper part of the oesophagus are of a red colour, and consist chiefly of the striped variety; but below, they consist for the most part of involuntary muscular fibre. The areolar coat connects loosely the mucous and muscular coats. The mucous coat is thick, of a reddish colour above, and pale below. It is disposed in longitudinal folds, which disappear on distension of the tube. Its surface is studded with minute papillae, and it is covered throughout with a thick layer of stratified pavement epithelium. Beneath the mucous membrane, between it and the areolar coat, is a layer of longitudinally arranged non-striped muscular fibres. This is the muscularis mucosce. At the commencement it is