ARTICULATIONS return to their original position. When the jaw is carried horizontally forwards and backwards, or from side to side, a horizontal gliding movement of the fibro- cartilages and condyles upon the glenoid cavities takes place in the corresponding direction. The lower jaw is depressed by its own weight, assisted by the Platysma, the Digastric, the Mylo-hyoid, and the Genio-hyoid. It is elevated by the anterior part of the Temporal, Masseter, and Internal pterygoid. It is drawn fonvards by the simultaneous action of the External pterygoid, and the superficial fibres of the Masseter; and it is drawn backwards by the deep fibres of the Masseter and the posterior fibres of the Temporal muscle. The grinding movement is caused by the alternate action of the two External pterygoids. Surface Form.—The temporo-maxillary articulation io quite superficial, situated below the base of the zygoma, in front of the tragus and external auditory meatus, and behind the posterior border of the upper part of the Masseter muscle. Its exact position can be at once ascertained by feeling for the condyle of the jaw, the working of which can be distinctly felt in the movements of the lower jaw either vertically or from side to side. When the mouth is opened wide, the condyle advances out of the glenoid fossa on to the eminentia articularis and a depression is felt in the situation of the joint. Surgical Anatomy.—The lower jaw is dislocated only in one direction—viz. forwards. The accident is caused by violence or muscular action. When the mouth is open, the condyle is situated on the eminentia articularis, and any sudden violence, or even a sudden muscular spasm as during a convulsive yawn, may displace the condyle forwards into the zygomatic fossa. The displacement may be unilateral or bilateral, according as one or both of the condyles are displaced. The latter of the two is the more common. Sir Astley Cooper described a condition which he termed ' subluxation.' It occurs principally in delicate women, and is believed by some to be due to relaxation of the ligaments, permitting too free movement of the bone, and possibly some displacement of the tibro- cartilage. Others have believed that it is due to gouty or rheumatic changes in the joint. In close relation to the condyle of the jaw is the external auditory meatus and the tym- panum; any force, therefore, applied to the bone is liable to be attended with damage to these parts, or inflammation in the joint may extend to the ear, or on the other hand inflammation of the middle ear may involve the articulation and cause its destruction, thus leading to ankylosis of the joint. In children, arthritis of this joint may also follow the exanthemata, and in adults occurs as the result of some constitutional conditions, as rheu- matism or gout. The temporo-maxillary joint is also frequently the seat of osteo-arthritis, leading to great suffering during efforts of mastication. A peculiar affection sometimes attacks the neck and condyle of the lower jaw, consisting in hypertrophy and elonoation of these parts and consequent protrusion of the chin to the opposite side. VI. Articulations OF the Ribs with the Vertebra The articulations of the ribs with the vertebral column may be divided into two sets : I. Those which connect the heads of the ribs with the bodies of the vertebrae. 2. Those which connect the necks and tubercles of the ribs with the transverse processes. I. Articulations between the Heads of the Ribs and the Bodies OF the Vertebra (fig. 235) These constitute a series of arthrodial joints, formed by the articulation of the heads of the ribs with the cavities on the contiguous margins of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, connected together by the following ligaments :— Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate. Capsular. Interarticular. The Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate Lig^ament connects the anterior part of the head of each rib with the sides of the bodies of two vertebrae, and the inter- vertebral disc between them. It consists of three fiat bundles of ligamentous fibres, which radiate from the anterior part of the head of the rib. The superior fasciculus passes upwards to be connected with the body of the vertebra above ; the inferior one descends to the body of the vertebra below; and the middle one, the smallest and least distinct, passes horizontally inwards, to be attached to the intervertebral substance.