396 MUSCLES AND FASCIA Pharyngeal Region Inferior constrictor. Middle constrictor. Palato-pharyngeus. Salpingo-pharyngeus. Superior constrictor. Stylo-pharyngeus. (See next section.) Dissection (fig. 282).—In order to examine the muscles of the pharynx, cut through the trachea and oesophagus just above the sternum, and draw them upwards by dividing the loose areolar tissue connecting the pharynx with the front of the vertebral column. The parts being drawn well forwards, apply the edge of the saw immediately behind the styloid processes, and saw the base of the skull through from below upwards. The pharynx and mouth should then be stuffed with tow, in order to distend its cavity and render the muscles tense and easier of dissection. The Inferior constrictor, the most superficial and thickest of the three constrictors, arises from the sides of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. To the cricoid cartilage it is attached in the interval between the Crico-thyroid muscle in front, and the articular facet for the thyroid cartilage behind. To the thyroid cartilage it is attached to the oblique line on the side of the great ala, the carti- laginous surface behind it, nearly Fig. 182.—Muscles of the pharynx. External view. as far as its posterior border, and to the inferior cornu. From these attachments, the fibres spread back- wards and inwards, to be inserted into the fibrous raphe in the pos- terior median line of the pharynx. The inferior fibres are horizontal, and continuous with the fibres of the oesophagus; the rest ascend, increasing in obliquity, and overlap the Middle constrictor. The supe- rior laryngeal nerve and artery pass near the upper border, and the inferior, or recurrent laryngeal, beneath the lower border of this muscle, previous to their entering the larynx. Relations.—It is covered by a dense cellular membrane which surrounds the entire pharynx. Behind, it is in relation with the vertebral column and the Longus colli muscle; laterally, wuth the thyroid gland, the common carotid artery, and the Sterno-thyroid muscle ; by its internal surface, with the Middle constrictor, the Stylo-pharyngeus, Palato-pharyn- geus, the fibrous coat and mucous membrane of the pharynx. The Middle constrictor is a flattened, fan-shaped muscle, smaller than the preceding. It arises from the whole length of the upper surface of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, from the lesser cornu, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament. The fibres diverge from their origin : the lower ones descending beneath the Inferior constrictor, the middle fibres passing transversely, and the upper fibres