27 BONE Fig. 29.—Section parallel to the surface from the shaft of the femur. Magnified 100 times. example) can easily be tied, in a knot. If now a transverse section is made (fig. 30) the same general arrangement of the Haversian canals, lamells^, lacunae, and canaliculi is seen, though not so plainly as in the ordinary section. The earthy part may be obtained separate by calcination, by which the animal matter is completely burnt out. The bone will still retain its original form, but it will be white and brittle, will have lost about one-third of its original weight, and will crumble down with the slightest force. The earthy matter confers on bone its hardness and rigidity, and the animal matter its tenacity. The animal base is often called car- tilage, but differs from it in structure, in the fact that it is softer and more flexible, Fig. 30.—Section of bone after the re- moval of the earthy matter by the action of acids. a. Haversian canals, b. Lacunge seen from the side, c. Others seen from the surface in hvmellfe which are cut horizontally, and that when boiled with a high pressure it is almost entirely resolved into gelatin. The organic constituent of bone forms about one-third, or 33-3 per cent.; the inorganic matter, tifo-thirds, or 667 percent. ; as is seen in the subjoined analysis of Berzelius :— Oro^anic matter , Inorganic or Earthy matter Some chemists add to this about i per cent, of fat. Some difference exists in the proportion between the two constituents of bone at different periods of life. In the child the animal matter predominates, whereas in aged people the bones contain a larger proportion of earthy matter, and the animal matter is deficient in quantity and quality. Hence in children it is not uncommon to find, after an injury to the bones, that they become bent or only partially broken, whereas in old people the bones are more brittle and fracture takes place more readily. Some of the diseases, also, to which bones are liable mainly depend on the disproportion between the two constituents of bone. Thus in the disease called rickets, so common in the children of the poor, the bones become bent and curved, either from the superincumbent weight of the body, or under the action of certain muscles. This depends upon some defect of nutrition by which bone becomes deprived of its normal proportion of earthy matter, whilst Gelatin and blood-vessels. . 33-30 Phosphate of lime • 51-04 Carbonate of lime . 11-30 Fluoride of calcium . 2-00 Phosphate of magnesia Soda and chloride of sodium i-i6 r2o 100*00