PELVIC FASCIA 1075 The corpus spongiosum is divided into two lateral halves, which are represented by the hulhi vestihuli ^ndi partes intermediales (see jpage 1033). The perineal body fills up the interval between the lower part of the vagina and the rectum. Its base is covered by the skin lying between the anus and vagiiia on what is called the ' perinaeum.' Its anterior surface hes behind the posterior vaginal wall, and its posterior surface lies in front of the anterior rectal wall and the anus. It measures about an inch and a quarter from before backwards, and laterally extends from one tuberosity of the ischium to the other. In it are situated the muscles belongmg to the external organs of generation. Through its centre runs the transverse perineal septum, which is of great strength in women, and forms on either side, behind the posterior commissure, a hard, ill-defined body, consisting of connective tissue, with much yellow elastic tissue and interlacing bundles of involuntary muscular fibres, in which the voluntary muscles of the perineum are inserted. Fig. 636.—Side view of the peMc viscera of the male subject, showing the pelvic and perineal fasciae. Pelvic Fascia The Pelvic fascia (fig. 635) is a thin membrane which lines the whole of the cavity of the pelvis, and is continuous with the transversahs and iliac fasciae. It is attached to the brim of the pelvis, for a short distance, at the side of the cavity, and to the inner surface of the bone round the attachment of the Obturator internus. At the posterior border of this muscle, it is continued backwards as a very thin membrane in front of the Pyriformis muscle and sacral nerves to the front of the sacrum. In front, it follows the attachment of the Obturator internus to the bone, arches beneath the obturator vessels, completing the orifice of the obturator canal, and at the front of the pelvis is attached to the lower part of the symphysis pubis. At the level of a hne extending from the lower part of the symphysis pubis to the spine of the ischium, is a thickened whitish band; this marks the attachment of the Levator ani muscle to the peMc fascia, and corresponds to its point of division into two layers, the obturator and recto-vesical.