DEVELOPMENT OF ALIMENTAEY CANAL lOl constitutes the common iliac vein; while the distal portion forms the external iliac vein. The internal iliac vein is formed from that part of the cardinal vein which lies below the point of communication. The greater part of the remainder of the cardinal vein—that is to say, of that portion above the iliac veins—becomes obliterated ; a small part, however, at the upper extremity remains persistent, and becomes con- tinuous with two new veins, which are formed one on either side of the vertebral column. These veins receive the intercostal and lumbar veins, and eventually form the azygos veins. They become joined by an oblique communicating branch, which crosses the middle line, and constitutes the junction of the vena azygos minor with the vena azygos major. These veins are termed the j^osterior vertebral veins of Rathke. The upper part of the left one, with its continuation, the cardinal vein, forms the superior intercostal of the left side. The veins first formed in the upper part of the trunk are, as above stated, the primitive jugular veins. In the greater part of their extent they become the external jugular vein. Shortly, two loi.—Diagram of the formation of the main systemic veins. small branches may be noticed opening Fig. into them near their termination ; these form the subclavian and internal jugular veins. From the point of junction of these veins on the left side, a commu- nicating branch makes its appearance, running obliquely across the neck down- wards and to the right, to open into the primitive jugular vein of the right side below the point of entrance of the sub- clavian vein. At the same time, in con- sequence of the alteration in the position of the heart, and its descent into the thorax, the direction of the ducts of Cuvier becomes altered, and they assume an almost vertical position. From the por- tion of the primitive jugular veins, above the branch of communication, the inter- nal jugulars are formed, except that part of the right one which lies between the point of entrance of the subclavian of this side, and the termination of the commu- nicating branch, which becomes the right innominate vein. The communicating branch becomes the left innominate vein. The primitive jugular of the right side, below the communicating vein and the right duct of Cuvier, becomes the vena cava superior, into which the right car- dinal (vena azygos major) enters. The lower part of the left primitive jugular, and the left duct of Cuvier become almost entirely obhterated, except the lower end, which remains as a fibrous band, or sometimes a small vein, and runs obliquely over the posterior surface of the left auricle. The termination of the left duct of Cuvier remains persistent, and forms the coronary sinus (fig. loi). The foetal circulation is described at a future page. Development of the Alimentary Canal.—The development of the intestinal cavity is, as shown above (page 77), one of the earhest phenomena of embryonic life. The original intestine consists of an inflection of the hypoblast extending from one end of the embryo to the other, and is situated just below the primitive . Heart and venous system at tlie period when there are two vense cavEe snperiores, posterior view. i. Left superior cava. 2. Right superior cava. 3. Inferior cava. 4. Left inferior cardinal. 5. Right inferior cardinal. 6. Right jugular. 7. Anasto- mosing branch between the jugulars (left innomi- nate). 8. Subclavian. 9. Internal jugular. 10. External jugular. 11. Middle obliterated portion of the posterior cardinal veins. 12. Newly-formed posterior vertebral veins. 13. Anastomosis between the two vertebrals—trunk of small azygos. 14. Iliac veins, proceeding from anastomosis between the inferior cava and posterior cardinals. 15. Crural. 16. Hypogastric—originally the distal ends of the cardinals, e. Heart and permanent veins, posterior view. I. Obliterated left superior cava. 6. Right innominate. 7. Left innominate. 8. Subclavian. 10. Jugular. 13. Trunk of the small azj'gos. 17. Coronary sinus receiving the coronary vein. 18. Superior intercostal. 19. Superior small azygos. 20. Inferior small azygos.