SPINAL COED cells, and blood-vessels are embedded, a considerable accumulation of neuroglia takes place in three situations—(i) on the surface of the cord, beneath the pia mater ; (2) around the central canal; and (3) in the posterior part of the posterior horn, forming the substantia cinerea gelatinosa. The white substance of the cord consists of meduUated nerve-fibres, v^ith blood-vessels and neuroglia. On transverse section of the white substance of the cord, a very striking object is presented. It is seen to be studded all over with minute dots, surrounded by a white area, and this again by a dark circle (fig. 409). This is due to the longitudinal meduUated fibres seen on section. The dot is the axis-cylinder, the white area the substance of Schwann, and the dark circle the tubular membrane of the fibres, which seems to consist of several laminae. Externally, the neuroglia is seen to form a delicate connective sheath round the outer surface of the cord immediately beneath the pia mater, from which numerous septa pass in to separate the respective bundles of fibres and extend between the individual nerve-fibre-s, acting as a supporting medium in which they are embedded. Thus it will be seen that the greater bulk of the white matter of the cord is made up of longitudinal meduUated fibres, which are arranged in groups forming the anterior, lateral, and posterior columns. There are, however, also oblique and transverse fibres in the white substance. These are principally found (i) at the bottom of the anterior median fissure, forming the white commissure ; the fibres passing from the grey matter of the anterior horn on one side to the white matter of the anterior column of the opposite side; (2) horizontal or oblique fibres passing from the roots of the nerves into the grey matter; and (3) fibres leaving the grey matter and pursuing a longer or shorter horizontal course between the bundles of longitudinal fibres with which many of them are continuous. The investigation of pathological lesions has shown that the white matter of the cord consists of certain columns or tracts of fibres ; for it has been found that separate lesions are strictly limited to certain well-determined parts of the organ without involving neighbouring regions. That these parts or fasciculi correspond to so many distinct anatomical systems, each endowed with special functions, seems abundantly proved hy the researches of Flechsig and others on the develop- ment of the cord during the^ later periods 'of utero-gestation and in the newly born infant. Thus, on either side of the anterior median fissure a portion of the anterior column is divided off as the Direct pyramidal fasciculus (fasciculus of Tiirck), which