730 NERVOUS SYSTEM prominent tuft, situated behind and below the middle peduncle of the cerebellum ; its surface is composed of grey matter, subdivided into a few small laminae ; it is sometimes called the pneumogastric lobule, from being situated behind the pneumo- gastric nerve : (2) the amygdala or tonsil, situated on either side of the great median fissure or valley, and projecting into the fourth ventricle : (3) the digastric lobe, situated on the outside of the tonsil, and connected in part with the pyramid: (4) the slender lobe, behind the digastric, and connected with the back part of the pyramid and the commissura brevis : and more posteriorly (5) the inferior ijosterior lobe, which also joins the commissura brevis in the valley. The inferior vermiform process.—The parts entering into the composition of the inferior vermiform process, from behind forwards, are : the tuber valvulce or commissura brevis, a transverse lamina uniting the inferior posterior, and slender lobes of the two sides ; in front of this, a laminated conical projection, the ijyramid \ more anteriorly, a larger eminence, the uvula, which is placed between two rounded lobes, the amygdales or tonsils, which occupy the sides of the valley, and which is connected with them by a commissure of grey matter, indented on the surface, called the furrotved band. In front of the uvula is the nodule ; it is the anterior pointed termination of the inferior vermiform process, and projects into the cavity of the fourth ventricle; it has been named by Malacarne the laminated tubercle. Fig. 435.—Vertical section of the cerebellum. On each side of the nodule is a thin layer of white substance, attached externally to the flocculus, and internally to the nodule; these form together the iwsterior medullary velum, or commissure of the flocculus. It is usually covered in and concealed by the amygdalae, and cannot be seen until they are drawn aside. This band is of a semilunar form on each side, its anterior margin being free and concave, its posterior attached just in front of the furrowed band. Between it and the nodule and uvula behind is a deep fossa, called the sioallow's nest {nidus Jiirundinis). Internal structure of the cerebellum.—The cerebellum consists both of white and grey matter. If a vertical section (fig. 435) is made through either hemisphere of the cere- bellum, midway between its centre and the superior vermiform process, the interior will be found to consist of a central stem of white matter, which contains in its interior a grey mass, the corpus 'dentatum. From the surface of this central stem a series of plates of medullary matter are detached, which, covered with grey matter, form the laminae. From the anterior part of each hemisphere arise three large processes or peduncles—superior, middle, and inferior—by which the cerebellum is connected with the rest of the encephalon.