GREAT PLEXUSES OF THE SYMPATHETIC 817 nerves. The cardiac nerves are three in number ; they arise from the three cervical ganglia, and are distributed to a large and important organ in the thoracic cavity. The splanchnic nerves, also three in number, are connected probably with all the dorsal ganglia, and are distributed to important organs in the abdominal cavity. The Lumbar Portion of the Gangliatbd Cord The lumbar portion of the gangliated cord is situated in front of the vertebral column, along the inner margin of the Psoas muscle. It consists usually of four ganglia, connected together by interganglionic cords. The ganglia are of small size, of a greyish colour, shaped like a barleycorn, and placed much nearer the median line than the thoracic ganglia. The superior and inferior branches of the lumbar ganglia serve as communi- cating branches between the chain of ganglia in this region. They are usually single, and of a white colour. The external branches communicate with the lumbar spinal nerves. From the situation of the lumbar ganglia, these branches are longer than in the other regions. They are usually two in number from each ganglion, but their connection with the spinal nerves is not so uniform as in other regions. They accompany the lumbar arteries around the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, passing beneath the fibrous arches from which some of the fibres of the Psoas muscle arise. Of the internal brcmches, some pass inwards, in front of the aorta, and help to form the aortic plexus. Other branches descend in front of the common iliac arteries, and join over the promontory of the sacrum, helping to form the hypo- gastric plexus. Numerous delicate filaments are also distributed to the bodies of the vertebrae, and the ligaments connecting them. Pelvic Portion of the Gangliated Cord The pelvic portion of the gangliated cord is situated in front of the sacrum, along the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina. It consists of four or five small ganglia on each side, connected together by interganglionic cords. Below, these cords converge and unite on the front of the coccyx, by means of a small ganglion (the coccygeal ganglion, or ganglion impar). The superior and inferior branches are the cords of communication between the ganglia above and below. The external branches, exceedingly short, communicate with the sacral nerves. They are two in number from each ganglion. The coccygeal nerve communicates either with the last sacral, or coccygeal ganglion. The internal branches communicate, on the front of the sacrum, with the corresponding branches from the opposite side; some, from the first two ganglia, pass to join the pelvic plexus, and others form a plexus, which accompanies the middle sacral artery, and sends filaments to the coccygeal gland. THE GREAT PLEXUSES OF THE] SYMPATHETIC The great plexuses of the sympathetic are the large aggregations of nerves and ganglia, above alluded to, situated in the thoracic, abdominal, and pelvic cavities respectively. From them are derived the branches which supply the viscera. The Cardiac Plexus The cardiac plexus is situated at the base of the heart, and is divided into a superficial part, which lies in the concavity of the arch of the aorta, and a deei:> part, which lies between the trachea and aorta. The great or deep cardiac plexus {plexus magnus profundus, Scarpa) is situated in front of the trachea at its bifurcation, above the point of division of 3G