THE CORNEA 837 anterior chamber of the eyeball. The name of membrane of Descemet or Demours is given to this posterior elastic lamina and its endothelial coating. The conjunctival epithelium, which covers the front of the cornea proper, consists of several strata of epithelial cells. The lowermost cells are columnar : then follow two or three layers of polyhedral cells, some of which present ridges and furrows, similar to those found in the cuticle. Lastly, there are three or four layers of scaly epithelium, with flattened nuclei. The proper substance of the cornea is fibrous, tough, unyielding; perfectly transparent, and continuous with the sclerotic, with which it is identical in structure. It is composed of about sixty flattened lamellae, superimposed one on another. These lamellae are made up of bundles of fibrous connective tissue, the fibres of which are directly continuous with the fibres of the sclerotic. The fibres of each lamella are for the most part parallel with each other; those of alternating lamellae at right angles to each other. Fibres, however, frequently pass from one lamella to the next. The lamells; are connected with each other by an interstitial cement-sabstance, in which are spaces, the corneal spaces. The spaces are stellate in shape and have numerous offsets, by which they communicate with other spaces. Each space contains a cell, the corneal corpuscle^ which resembles in form the space in which it is contained, but does not entirely fill it. Immediately beneath the conjunctival epithelium, the cornea proper presents certain characteristic differences, which have led some anatomists to regard it as a distinct membrane, and it has been named by Bowman the anterior elastic lamina. It differs, however, from the true elastic lamina or membrane of Descemet in many essential particulars, presenting evidence of fibrillar structure, and not having the same tendency to curl inwards, or to undergo fracture, when detached from the other layers of the cornea. It consists of extremely closely interwoven fibrils, similar to those found in the rest of the cornea proper, but contains no corneal corpuscles. It seems therefore more proper to regard it as a part of the proper tissue of the cornea.* The posterior elastic lamina, which covers the proper structure of the cornea behind, presents no structure recognisable under the miscroscope. It consists of a hard, elastic, and perfectly transparent homogeneous membrane, of extreme thinness, which is not rendered opaque by either water, alcohol, or acids. It is very brittle, but its most remarkable property is its extreme elasticity, and the tendency which it presents to curl up, or roll upon itself, with the attached surface innermost, when separate from the proper substance of the cornea. Its use appears to be (as suggested by Dr. Jacob) ' to preserve the requisite permanent correct curvature of the flaccid cornea proper.' At the margin of the cornea this posterior elastic membrane breaks up into fibres to form a reticular structure at the outer angle of the anterior chamber, the intervals between the fibres forming small cavernous spaces, the spaces of Fontana. These little recesses communicate with a somewhat larger space in the substance of the sclerotic close to its junction with the cornea. This is the canal of Schlemm, or siiius circularis iridis, and, according to some authors, is a lymph canal, but according to others is a venous sinus. Some of the fibres of this reticulated structure are continued into the front of the iris, forming the liga- mentum pectinatum iridis ; while others are connected with the fore part of the sclerotic and choroid. The endothelial lining of the aqueous chamber covers the posterior surface of the posterior elastic lamina. It consists of a single layer of polygonal flattened transparent nucleated cells, similar to those found lining other serous cavities. Arteries and Nerves.—The cornea is a non-vascular structure, the capillary vessels terminating in loops at its circumierence. Lymphatic vessels have not as yet been demonstrated in it, but are represented by the channels in which the * This layer has been called by Eeichert the ' anterior limiting layer,' a name which appears more applicable to it than that of 'anterior elastic lamina.'