MUSCLES AND FASCIA 412 The Splenins is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by a triangular interval, in which is seen the Complexus. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Trapezius, from which it is separated below by the Ehomboidei and the Serratus posticus superior. It is covered at its insertion by the Sterno-mastoid, and at the low^er and back part of the neck by the Levator anguli scapulse. By its deep surface, with the Spinalis dorsi, Longissimus dorsi, Semispinalis colli, Complexus, Trachelo-mastoid, and Transversalis colli. Nerves.—The Splenius is supplied from the external branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical nerves ; the Serratus posticus superior is supplied by the external branches of the posterior divisions of the upper dorsal nerves ; the Serratus posticus inferior by the external branches of the posterior divisions of the lower dorsal nerves. Actions.—The Serrati are respiratory muscles. The Serratus posticus supe- rior elevates the ribs; it is therefore an inspiratory muscle; while the Serratus inferior draws the lower ribs downwards and backwards, and thus elongates the thorax. It also fixes the lower ribs, thus aiding the downward action of the diaphragm and resisting the tendency which it has to draw the lower ribs upwards and forwards. It must therefore be regarded as a muscle of inspiration. This muscle is also probably a tensor of the vertebral aponeurosis. The Splenii muscles of the two sides, acting together, draw the head directly backwards, assisting the Trapezius and Complexus ; acting separately, they draw the head to one or the other side, and slightly rotate it, turning the face to the same side. They also assist in supporting the head in the erect position. Fourth Layee Sacral and Lumbar Begions Cervical Begion Erector spina?. Cervicalis ascendens. Dorsal Begion Transversalis colli. Ilio-costalis. Trachelo-mastoid. Musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem. Complexus. Longissimns dorsi. Biventer cervicis. Spinalis dorsi. Spinalis colli. Dissection.—To expose the muscles of the fourth layer, remove entirely the Serrati and the vertebral and lumbar fasciae. Then detach the Splenius by separating its attachment to the spmons processes and reflecting it outwards. The Erector spinsB (fig. 288), and its prolongations in the dorsal and cervical regions, fill up the vertebral groove on each side of the spine. It is covered in the lumbar region by the lumbar fascia; in the dorsal region by the Serrati muscles and the vertebral aponeurosis; and in the cervical region by a layer of cervical fascia continued beneath the Trapezius and the Splenius. This large muscular and tendinous mass varies in size and structure at different parts of the spine. In the sacral region, the Erector spinse is narrow and pointed, and its origin chiefly tendinous in structure. In the lumbar region, the muscle becomes enlarged, and forms a large fleshy mass. In the dorsal region, it subdivides into two parts, which gradually diminish in size as they ascend to be inserted into the vertebrae and ribs. In the cervical region, it is gradually lost, where a number of small muscles are continued upwards to the head to support it upon the spine. The Erector spins arises from the sacro-iliac groove, and from the anterior surface of a very broad and thick tendon, which is attached, internally, to the spines of the sacrum, to the spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and the supraspinous ligament; externally, to the back part of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, and to the series of eminences on the posterior part of the sacrum, which represent the transverse processes, where it blends with the great sacro- sciatic ligament. The muscular fibres form a single large fleshy mass, bounded in