50 GENERAL ANATOMY and alternate regularly with the layers of muscular tissue. They are most distinct and arranged with greatest regularity in the abdominal aorta, innominate artery, and common carotid. In the larger arteries bundles of white connective-tissue fibres have also been found in small quantity in the middle coat. The external coat {tunica adventitia) consists mainly of fine and closely felted bundles of white connective tissue, but also contains elastic fibres in all but the smallest arteries. The elastic tissue is much more abundant next the tunica media, and it is sometimes described as forming here, between the adventitia and media, a special layer, the tunica elastica externa of Henle. This layer is most marked in arteries of medium size. In the largest vessels the external coat is relatively thin ; but in small arteries it is as thick or thicker than the middle coat. In the smaller arteries it consists of a single layer of white connective tissue and elastic fibres; while in the smallest arteries, just above the capillaries, the elastic fibres are wanting, and the connective tissue, of which the coat is composed, becomes more homogeneous the nearer it approaches the capillaries, and is gradually reduced to a thin membranous envelope, which finally disappears. Some arteries have ex- tremely thin coats in pro- portion to their size ; this is especially the case in those situated in the cavity of the cranium and spinal canal, the difference de- pending on the greater thinness of the external and middle coats. The arteries, in their distribution throughout the body, are included in a thin fibro-areolar investment, which forms what is called their sheath. In the limbs this is usually formed by a prolongation of the deep fascia ; in the upper part of the thigh it consists of a continuation downwards of the transversalis and iliac fasciae of the abdomen ; in the neck, of a prolongation of the deep cervical fascia. The included vessel is loosely connected with its sheath by a delicate areolar tissue; and the sheath usually encloses the accompanying veins, and sometimes a nerve. Some arteries, as those in the cranium, are not included in sheaths. All the larger arteries are supplied with blood-vessels like the other organs of the body ; they are called the vasa vasorum. These nutrient vessels arise from a branch of the artery or from a neighbouring vessel, at some considerable distance from the point at which they are distributed ; they ramify in the loose areolar tissue connecting the artery with its sheath, and are distributed to the external coat, but do not, in man, penetrate the other coats; though in some of the larger mammals some feAv vessels have been traced into the middle coat. Minute veins serve to return the blood from these vessels ; they empty themselves into the venae comites in connection with the artery. Lymphatic vessels and lymphatic spaces are also present in the outer coat. Arteries are also supplied with nerves, which are derived chiefly from the sym- pathetic, but partly from the cerebro-spinal system. They form intricate plexuses upon the surfaces of the larger trunks, and run along the smaller branches as single Fig. 58. Au artery from the mesentery of a child, •062"', and 6, vein '067'" in dia- meter, treated with acetic acid and magnified 350 times, a. Tunica adventitia, with elongated nuclei. (3. Nuclei of the contractile fibre- cells of the tunica media, seen partly from the surface, partly apparent in transverse section, -y. Nuclei of the endothelial cells, fi. Elastic longi- tudinal fibrous coat.