GENERAL ANATOMY 84 cranium, the pharyngeal cavity, mouth, &c., the nervous centres, the organs of the senses, the circulatory system, the alimentary canal and its appendages, the organs of respiration, and the genito-urinary organs.* The reader is also referred to the chronological table of the development of the foetus at the end of this section. Development of the Spine.—We have already traced the first steps in the formation of the spine.—(i) The looping up of two longitudinal folds from the cells of the epiblast on either side of the primitive streak, so as to form a groove, and the gradual growing together of these ridges (lammcs dorsales) so as to convert the groove into a canal, which is lined by epiblast, and out of which the spinal cord is developed. (2) The formation in front of this groove of a continuous cellular cord, enclosed in a structureless sheath, the notochord or chorda dorsalis (fig. 88). Fig. 88.—Transverse section through the dorsal region of an embryo-chick, end of third day. (From Foster and Balfour. Am. Amniou. mp. Muscle-plate, cv. Caraiiml vein. Ao. Dorsal aorta at the point where its two roots begin to join. C7i. Notochord. Wfl. Wolffian duct. Wb. Commencement of formation of Wolffian body. ep. Epiblast. so. Somatopleure. hy. Hypoblast. The section passes through the place where the alimentary canal (hy) communi- cates with the yolk-sac. Fig., 89.—Cervical part of the primitive vertebral column and adjacent parts of an em- bryo of the sixth day, showing the division of the primitive vertebral segments. (From KoUiker, after Eemak.) , I. Cliorda dorsalis in its sheath, pointed ut its ui)pcr end. 2, points by three lines tn the original intervals of the priiuitive vertebrae. 3, in a similar manner, indicates the iilaccs of new divi- sion into permanent bodies of vertebrae. ( indicates tlie body of tlic tirst cervical vertebra : in this andtlie next the primi- tive division lias disaiijiearcd, as also in the two lowest i-cprc.-enti'd, viz. </ and the one above; in those intermediate the line of division is shown. 4, points in three placi's to the vertebral arches; and 5, similarly, to three commencing ganglia of the spinal nerves : the dotted segments outside these parts are the mttscular plates. The notochord extends from the cephalic to the caudal extremity of the embryo, and lies in the place which is afterwards occupied by the bodies of the vertebr£e. (3) On either side of the neural canal, a portion of the mesoblastic layer is divided longitudinally from the rest of the mesoblast, so as to form a thick column, which extends from the cephaHc to the caudal extremity of the embryo on either side of the spinal canal and notochord (fig. 82, a 7) ; this is the 2^1'otovertebral column. From the greater part of it is derived the vertebral column, a small portion at the upper and outer part being differentiated from it and eventually forming the muscles The scope of this work only permits the briefest possible reference to these subjects. Those who wish to study the subject of embryology in more detail are referred to Kolliker's EntwicTfelungsgeschicJite; to vol. i. pt. i, of the tenth edition of Quain's Anatomy ; or to the works of Professor Dalton and of Foster and Balfour.