■6- INTERNAL CAROTID 547 anterior clinoid process, the internal carotid enters the inner extremity of the fissure of Sylvius, where it gives off its terminal or cerebral branches. This portion of the artery has the optic nerve on its inner side, and the third nerve externally. Plan op the Relations of the Internal Carotid Artery in the Neck hi front. Skin, superficial and deep fasciae. Platysma. Sterno-mastoid. External carotid and occipital arteries. Hypoglossal nerve. Parotid gland. Stylo-giossus and Stylo-pharyngeus muscles. Glosso-pliaryngeal nerve. Pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric. Externally. Internal jugular vein. Pneumogastric nerve. Internally. Pharynx. Superior laryngeal nerve. Ascending pharyngeal artery Tonsil. Beliind. Rectus capitis anticus major. Sympathetic. Superior laryngeal nerve. Peculiarities.—The length of the internal carotid varies according to the length of the neck, and also according to the point of bifurcation of the common carotid. Its origin sometimes takes place from the arch of the aorta; in such rare instances, this vessel has been found to be placed nearer the middle line of the neck than the external carotid, as far upwards as the larynx, when the latter vessel crossed the internal carotid. The course of the vessel, instead of being straight, may be very tortuous. A few instances are recorded in which this vessel was altogether absent : in one of these the common carotid passed up the neck, and gave off the usual branches of the external carotid : the cranial portion of the internal carotid being replaced by two branches of the internal maxillary, which entered the skull through the foramen rotundum and ovale, and joined to form a single vessel. Surgical Anatomy.—The cervical part of the internal carotid is very rarely wounded. Mr. Cripps, in an interesting paper in the ' Medico-Chirurgical Transactions,' compares the rareness of a wound of the internal carotid with one of the external or its branches. It is, however, sometimes injured b.y a stab or gunshot wound in the neck, or even occasionally by a stab from within the mouth, as when a person receives a thrust from the end of a parasol, or falls down with a tobacco-pipe in his mouth. The relation of the internal carotid with the tonsil should be especially remembered, as instances have occurred in which the artery has been wounded during the operation of scarifying the tonsil, and fatal haemorrhage has supervened. The indications for ligature are wounds, when the vessel should be exposed by a careful dissection and tied above and below the bleeding-point; and aneurism, which if non-traumatic may be treated by ligature of the common carotid ; but if traumatic in origin, by exposing the sac and tying the vessel above and below. The incision for ligature of the cervical portion of the internal carotid should be made along .the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, from the angle of the jaw to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The superficial structures being divided, and the Sterno-mastoid defined and drawn outwards, the cellular tissue must be carefully separated and the posterior belly of the Digastric and hypoglossal nerve sought for as guides to the vessel. When the artery is found, the external carotid should be drawn inwards and the Digastric muscles upwards, and the aneurism needle passed from without inwards. The branches given oft* from the internal carotid are :— Tympanic (internal or deep). |Arteria3 Receptaculi. ■i Anterior Meningeal. Frofii the Petrous portion Fro7n the Cavernous i^ortion From the Cerebral jJortion (Ophthalmic. / Anterior Cerebral. J Middle Cerebral. I Posterior Communicating. ' Anterior Choroid. N N 2