293 OF THE SPINE muscles in making passive motion—for instance, at the wrist after Colles' fracture. If the fingers be extended, the wrist can be flexed to a right angle. If, however, they be first flexed as in " making a fist," flexion at the wrist is quickly limited to from forty to fifty degrees in different persons, and is very painful beyond that point. Hence passive motion here should be made with the fingers extended. In the leg, when flexing the hip, the knee should be flexed.' Dr. Keen further points out that ' a beautiful illustration of this is seen in the perching of birds, whose toes are forced to clasp the perch by just such a passive ligamentous action so soon as they stoop. Hence they can go to sleep and not fall off the perch.' The articulations may be arranged into those of the trunk, those of the upper extremity, and those of the lower extremity. ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK These may be divided into the following groups, viz.:— I. Of the vertebral column. VII. Of the cartilages of the ribs with II. Of the atlas with the axis. the sternum, and with each other. III. Of the atlas with the occipital bone. VIII. Of the sternum. IV. Of the axis with the occipital bone. IX. Of the vertebral column with the V. Of the lower jaw. pelvis. VI. Of the ribs with the vertebrae. X. Of the pelvis. I. Articulations of the Veetebeal Column The different segments of the spine are connected together by ligaments, which admit of the same arrangement as the vertebrse. They may be divided into five sets. I. Those connecting the bodies of the vertebrae. 2. Those connecting the lamince. 3. Those connecting the articular processes. 4. Those connecting the spinous processes. 5. ^ho^Q oi iliQ transverse processes. The articulations of the bodies of the vertebras with each other form a series of amphiarthrodial joints; those between the articular processes form a series of arthrodial joints. I. The Ligaments of the Bodies Anterior Common Ligament. Posterior Common Ligament. Intervertebral Substance. The Anterior Common Ligament (figs. 227, 228, 235, 239) is a broad and strong band of ligamentous fibres, which extends along the front surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. It is broader below than above, thicker in the dorsal than in the cervical or lumbar regions, and somewhat thicker opposite the front of the body of each vertebra, than opposite the inter- vertebral substance. It is attached, above, to the body of the axis by a pointed process, where it is continuous with the anterior atlanto-axial ligament, and is connected with the tendon of insertion of the Longus colli muscle, and extends down as far as the upper bone of the sacrum. It consists of dense longitudinal fibres, which are intimately adherent to the intervertebral substance, and the prominent margins of the vertebrae; but less closely to the middle of the bodies. In the latter situation the fibres are exceedingly thick, and serve to fill up the concavities on their front surface, and to make the anterior surface of the spine more even. This ligament is composed of several layers of fibres, which vary in length, but are closely interlaced with each other. The most superficial or longest fibres extend between four or five vertebra. A second subjacent set extend between two or three vertebrse ; whilst a third set, the shortest and deepest, extend from one vertebra to the next. At the side of the bodies, the ligament consists of a few short fibres, which pass from one vertebra to the next, separated from the median portion by large oval apertures, for the passage of vessels.