72 GENERAL ANATOMY Fig. 77.—Ovum with the germhial area, seen in profile to show the division of the blastodermic mem- brane. lining the interior of the outer layer, both sets of cells derived from the segmen- tation of the yolk. The double layer of cells is called the ' blastodermic membrane,' the outer layer being termed the ' epiblast,' and the inner the ' hypoblast.' At first the area of the blastodermic membrane, which consists of both the inner and outer layers of cells, is a small disc, in which the first traces of the embryo are seen ; hence it is called the germinal disc or area germinativa (fig. 77). The first trace of the embryo appears as a faint streak at the posterior end of the area germinativa, called the primitive traoe. After the formation of the primitive trace, but previous to the appearance of the next parts of the embryo, presently to be described, viz. the laminae dorsales and the notochord, the blastodermic membrane consists of only two layers, the ejjiblast and liypohlast, but after the formation of these structures a third layer makes its appearance. This is the mesohlast, and is situated between the other two (fig. 78). As to the precise origin of this third layer considerable difference of opinion exists. According to some embryologists it is formed entirely by proliferation of cells belong- ing to the epiblastic layer ; according to others it is formed by a splitting of the hypoblast, or, at all events, a differentiation of it into a central layer of mesoblastic cells and a lower layer of hypoblastic cells. Or, what seems most probable, it is derived mainly from the epiblast, the hypoblast taking a smaller and more subordinate share in its forma- tion. But in whichever way this third stratum may be formed, the blastodermic . Vitelline membrane. 2. Blastoderm. 3. Ger- minal area. 4. Place where the blastoderm is just divided into its two layers. Fig. 78.—Section across the anterior j^art of the medullary groove of an early embryo of the guinea pig. (By Schafer. From Quain's 'Anatomy,' 1890.) ep. Folds of epiblast rising up on either side of the middle line, and thus bounding the medullary groove, mg. Middle of medullary groove, hy. Hypoblast, which is in contact with tlie medullary epiblast at the "middle of the groove, but is elsewhere separated from it by mesoblast, m, which has burrowed forwards between the two primary layers. A cleft is seen in the mesoblast on either side ; this is the commencement of the anterior part of the body-cavity. memhrane eventually consists of three layers. The external, which used to be called the serous layer, but is now more commonly termed the epiblast, or ectoderm; the internal, the mucous layer, the hypoblast, or entoderm; and the middle, which is now usually called the mesoblast, or mesoderm, but which was formerly named the ' vascular layer.' The epiblast is mainly concerned in the formation of the external cuticle and the whole of the nervous system. It consists of cells of an epithelial character; that is to say, cells of an irregular columnar shape, forming, for the most part, a single stratum, but becoming more numerous and flattened at the germinal disc. The epidermis of the body and all the involutions of the epidermis in the ducts of superficial glands, as the mamniffi, as well as the brain, the spinal cord, the nerves, and the portions of the nose, eye, and ear, which are directly formed from the brain, are developed from it. The external layer of the amnion is also formed from the epiblast, and probably also a portion of the chorion.