AETERIES 568 behind the cartilages of the false ribs, perforating the Diaphragm at the eighth or ninth rib, and terminating, considerably reduced in size, opposite the last inter- costal space. It gives off anterior intercostal arteries to each of the intercostal spaces across which it passes; these diminish in size as the spaces decrease in length, and are distributed in a manner precisely similar to the anterior intercostals from the internal mammary. The musculo-phrenic also gives branches to the lower part of the pericardium, and others which run backwards to the Diaphragm, and downwards to the abdominal muscles. The superior epigastric continues in the original direction of the internal mammary ; it descends through the cellular interval between the costal and sternal attachments of the Diaphragm, and enters the sheath of the Eectus abdominis muscle, at first lying behind the muscle, and then perforating it and supplying it, and anastomosing with the deep epigastric artery from the external iliac. Some vessels perforate the sheath of the Rectus, and supply the muscles of the abdomen and the integument, and a small branch, which passes inwards upon the side of the ensiform appendix, anastomoses in front of that cartilage with the artery of the opposite side. Surgical Anatomy.—The course of the internal mammary artery may be defined by drawing a line across the six upper intercostal spaces, half an inch from and parallel Math the sternum. The position of the vessel must be remembered, as it is liable to be wounded in stabs of the chest-wall. It is most easily reached by a transverse incision in the second intercostal space. The Superior Intercostal (fig. 352) arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery, behind the Anterior scalenus on the right side, and to the inner side of the muscle on the left side. Passing backwards, it gives off the deej^ cervical branch, and then descends behind the pleura in front of the necks of the first two ribs, and inosculates with the first aortic intercostal.* In the first intercostal space, it gives off a branch which is distributed in a manner similar to the distri- bution of the aortic intercostals. The branch for the second intercostal space usually joins with one from the aortic intercostal. Each intercostal gives off a branch to the posterior spinal muscles, and a small one which passes through the corresponding intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and its membranes. The deep cervical branch (profunda cervicis) arises, in most cases, from the superior intercostal, and is analogous to the posterior branch of an aortic inter- costal artery. Passing backwards, between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the first rib, it runs up the back part of the neck, between the Complexus and Semispinalis colli muscles, as high as the axis, supplying these and adjacent muscles, and anastomosing with the deep branch of the arteria princeps cervicis of the occipital, and with branches which pass outwards from the vertebral. Anatomy of the Axilla The Axilla is a pyramidal space, situated between the upper and lateral part of the chest and the inner side of the arm. Boundaries.—Its apex, which is directed upwards towards the root of the neck, corresponds to the interval between the first rib, the upper edge of the scapula, and the clavicle, through which the axillary vessels and nerves pass. The base, directed downwards, is formed by the integument, and a thick layer of fascia, extending between the lower border of the Pectoralis major in front, and the lower border of the Latissimus dorsi behind; it is broad internally, at the chest, but narrow and pointed externally, at the arm. The anterior boundary is formed by the Pectoralis major and minor muscles, the former covering the whole of the anterior wall of the axilla, the latter covering only its central part. The posterior boundary, which extends somewhat lower than the anterior, is formed by the Sub- scapularis above, the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi below. On the inner side are the first four ribs with their corresponding Intercostal muscles, and part of the * See foot-note, p. 588.