ARCH OF AORTA 525 laryngitis, that the operation of tracheotomy has in some cases been resorted to, from the supposition that disease existed in the larynx; or it may press upon the thoracic duct and destroy life by inanition ; or it may involve the oesophagus, producing dysphagia; or may burst into the oesophagus, when fatal haemorrhage will occur. Again, the innominate artery, or the subclavian, or left carotid, may be so obstructed by clots, as to produce a weakness, or even a disappearance, of the pulse in one or the other wrist, or in the left temporal artery; or the tumour may present itself at or above the manubrium, generally either in the median line, or to the right of the sternum, and may simulate an aneurism of one of the arteries of the neck. Beanches of the Arch of the Aorta (ligs. 344, 345) The branches given off from the arch of the aorta are three in number: the innominate artery, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian. Pecidiarities. Position of the Branches.—The branches, instead of arising from the highest part of the arch (their usual position), may be moved more to the right, arising from the commencement of the transverse or upper part of the ascending portion ; or the distance from one another at their origin may be increased or diminished, the most frequent change in this respect being the approximation of the left carotid towards the innominate artery. The Number of the primary branches may be reduced to two : the left carotid arising from the innominate artery ; or (more rarely), the carotid and subclavian arteries of the left side arising from a left innominate artery. But the number may be increased to four, from the right carotid and subclavian arteries arising directly from the aorta, the innomi- nate being absent. In most of these latter cases, the right subclavian has been found to arise from the left end of the arch; in other cases, it was the second or third branch given ofl instead of the first. Lastly, the number of trunks from the arch may be increased to five or six ; in these instances, the external and internal carotids arise separately from the arch, the common carotid being absent on one or both sides. Nuviber usual, Arrangement different.—When the aorta arches over to the right side, the three branches have an arrangement the reverse of what is usual, the innominate supplymg the left side, and the carotid and subclavian (which arise separately) the right side. In other cases, where the aorta takes its usual course, the two carotids may be joined'in a common trunk, and the subclavians arise separately from the arch, the right subclavian generally arising from the left end of the arch. Secondary Branches sometimes arise from the arch; most commonly such a secondary branch is the left vertebral, which usually takes origin between the left carotid and left subclavian, or beyond them. Sometimes, a thyroid branch is derived from the arch, or the right internal mammary, or right vertebral, or, more rarely, both vertebral.* Innominate Artery The innominate artery (brachio-cephalic) is the largest branch given off from the arch of the aorta. It arises opposite the fourth dorsal vertebra from the commencement of the arch of the aorta in front of the left carotid, and, ascending obliquely to the upper border of the right sterno-clavicular articulation, divides into the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries. This vessel varies from an inch and a half to two inches in length. Relations.—In front, it is separated from the first bone of the sternum by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, the left innominate and right inferior thyroid veins which cross its root, and some- times the inferior cervical cardiac branch of the right pneumogastric. Behind, it lies upon the trachea, which it crosses obliquely. On the right side is the right innominate vein, right pneumogastric nerve, and the pleura ; and on the left side, the remains of the thymus gland, the origin of the left carotid artery, the left inferior thyroid vein, and the trachea. Branches.—The innominate usually gives off" no branches ; but occasionally a small branch, the thyroidea ima, is given off from this vessel. It also sometimes gives oft' a thymic or bronchial branch. The Thyroidea ima ascends in front of the trachea to the lower part of the thyroid body, which it supplies. It varies greatly in size, and appears to compensate for deficiency or absence of one of the other thyroid vessels. It occasionally is found to arise from the subclavian or internal mammary vessel. * The anomalies of the aorta and its branches are minutely described by Krause in Henle's Anatomy (Brunswick, 1868), vol. iii. p. 203 et seq.