530 ARTEEIES Surface Marking.—The carotid arteries are overlapi^ed throughout their entire extent by the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, but their course does not correspond to the border of the muscle, which passes in a somewhat curved direction from the mastoid process to the sterno-clavicular joint. The course of the artery is indicated more exactly by a line drawn from the sternal end of the clavicle below, to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process above. That portion of the line below the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage would represent the course of the vessel. Surgical A^iatomy.— The operation of tjdng the common carotid artery may be necessary in a case of wound of that vessel or its branches, in aneurism, or in a case of pulsating tumour of the orbit or skull. If the wound involves the trunk of the common carotid, it will be necessary to tie the artery above and below the wounded part. But in cases of aneurism, or where one of the branches of the common carotid is wounded in an inaccessible situation, it may be judged necessary to tie the trunk. In such cases, the whole of the artery is accessible, and any part may be tied, except close to either end. "When the case is such as to allow of a choice being made, the lower part of the carotid should never be selected as the spot upon which to place a ligature, for not only is the artery in this situation placed very deeply in the neck, but it is covered by three layers of muscles, and, on the left side, the internal jugular vein, in the great majority of cases, passes obhquely in front of it. Neither should the upper end be selected, for here the superior thyroid Vein and its tributaries would give rise to very considerable difficulty in the appli- cation of a ligature. The point most favourable for the operation is that part of the vessel which is at the level of the cricoid cartilage. It occasionally happens that the carotid artery bifurcates below its usual position: if the artery be exposed at its point of bifurca- tion, both divisions of the vessel should be tied near their origin, in preference to tying the trunk of the artery near its termination ; and if, in consequence of the entire absence of the common carotid, or from its early division, two arteries, the external and internal carotids, are met with, the ligature should be placed on that vessel which is found on com- pression to be connected with the disease. In this operation, the direction of the vessel and the inner margin of the Sterno-mastoid are the chief guides to its performance. The patient should be placed on his back with the head thrown back and turned slightly to the opposite side : an incision is to be made, three inches long, in the direction of the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, so that the centre corresponds to the level of the cricoid cartilage : after dividing the integument, superficial fascia, and Platysma, the deep fascia must be cut through on a director, so as to avoid wounding numerous small veins that are usually found beneath. The head may now be brought forwards so as to relax the parts somewhat, and the margins of the wound held asunder by retractors. The descendens hypoglossi nerve may now be exposed, and must be avoided, and the sheath of the vessel having been raised by forceps, is to be opened to a small extent over the artery at its inner side. The internal jugular vein may present itself alternately distended and relaxed; this should be compressed both above and below, and drawn outwards, in order to facilitate the operation. The aneurism needle is passed from the outside, care being taken to keep the needle in close contact with the artery, and thus avoid the risk of injuring the internal jugular vein, or including the vagus nerve. Before the ligature is tied, it should be ascertained that nothing but the artery is included in it. Ligature of the Common Carotid at the Lower Part of the Neck.—This operation is sometimes required in cases of aneurism of the upper part of the carotid, especially if the sac is of large size. It is best performed by dividing the sternal origin of the Sterno- mastoid muscle, but may be done in some cases, if the aneurism is not of very large size, b}^ an incision along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, extending down to the sterno-clavicular articulation, and by then retracting the muscle. The easiest and best plan, however, is to make an incision two or three inches long down the lower part of the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle to the sterno-clavicular joint, and a second incision, starting from the termination of the first, along the upper border of the clavicle for about two inches. This incision is made through the superficial and deep fascia, and the sternal origin of the muscle exposed. This is to be divided on a director and turned up, with the superficial structures, as a triangular flap. Some loose connective tissue is to be divided or torn through, and the outer border of the Sterno-hyoid muscle exposed. In doing this, care must be taken not to wound the anterior jugular vein, which crosses the muscle to reach the external jugular or subclavian vein. The Sterno-hyoid, and with it the Sterno-thyroid, are to be drawn inwards by means of a retractor, and the sheath of the vessel is exposed. This must be opened with great care on its inner or tracheal side, so as to avoid the internal jugular vein. This is especially necessary on the left side, where the artery is commonly overlapped by the vein. On the right side there is usually an interval between the artery and the vein, and not the same risk of wounding the latter. The common carotid artery, being a long vessel without any branches, is particularly suitable for the performance of Brasdor's operation for the cure of an aneurism of the lower part of the vessel. Brasdor's procedure consists in ligaturing the artery on the distal side of the aneurism, and in the case of the common carotid there are no branches given off from the vessel between the aneurism and the site of the ligature, hence little or