FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION uterina applied to it. These folds usually become very indistinct after the first labour. Structure.—The uterus is composed of three coats : an external serous coat, a middle or muscular, and an internal mucous coat. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum ; it invests the fundus and the whole of the posterior surface of the body of the uterus; but only the upper three- fourths of its anterior surface. In the lower fourth of the posterior surface the peritoneum, though covering the uterus, is not closely connected with it, being separated from it by a layer of loose cellular tissue and some large veins. The ynuscular coat forms the chief bulk of the substance of the uterus. In the unimpregnated state it is dense, firm, of a greyish colour, and cuts almost like cartilage. It is thick opposite the middle of the body and fundus, and thin at the orifices of the Fallopian tubes. It consists of bundles of unstriped muscular fibres, disposed in layers, intermixed with areolar tissue, blood-vessels, lymphatic vessels, and nerves. In the impregnated state the muscular tissue becomes more prominently developed, and is disposed in three layers—external, middle, and internal. The external layer is placed beneath the peritoneum, disposed as a thin plane on the anterior and posterior surfaces. It consists of fibres, which pass transversely across the fundus, and, converging at each superior angle of the uterus, are continued on the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, the ligament of the ovary : some passing at each side into the broad ligament, and others running backwards from the cervix into the recto-uterine hgaments. The middle layer of fibres, which is thickest, presents no regularity in its arrangement, being disposed longitudinally, obliquely, and transversely. It contains most blood-vessels. The internal or deep layer consists of circular fibres arranged in the form of two hollow cones, the apices of which surround the orifices of the Fallopian tubes, their bases intermingling with one another on the middle of the body of the uterus. At the internal os these circular fibres form a distinct sphincter. The mucous membrane is thin, smooth, and closely adherent to the subjacent tissue. It is continuous, through the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tubes, with the peritoneum ; and, through the os uteri, with the lining of the vagina. In the body of the uterus it is smooth, soft, of a pale red colour, lined by columnar ciliated epithelium, and presents, when \dewed with a lens, the orifices of numerous tubular follicles arranged perpendicularly to the surface. It is unprovided with any submucosa, but is intimately connected with the innermost layer of the muscular coat, which by some anatomists is regarded as the muscularis mucosae. In structure it differs from ordinary mucous membrane, consisting of an embryonic nucleated and highly cellular form of connective tissue in which run numerous large lymphatics. In it are the tube-like uterine glands, which are of small size in the unimpregnated uterus, but shortly after impregnation become enlarged, elongated, presenting a contorted or waved appearance towards their closed extremities, which reaches into the muscularis, and may be single or bifid. They consist of a delicate membrane, lined by an epithelium, which becomes ciliated towards the orifices. In the impregnated uterus the epithelium loses its ciliated character, is thicker and tougher, and is provided with a submucous layer of areolar tissue. In the cervix the mucous membrane is sharply differentiated from that of the uterine cavity. It is thrown into numerous transverse folds, which are arranged along an anterior and posterior longitudinal raphe, presenting an appearance which has received the name of arbor vitce. In the upper two-thirds of the canal, the mucous membrane is provided with numerous, deep glandular follicles, which secrete a clear viscid alkaline mucus ; and in addition, extending through the whole length of the canal, are a variable number of little cysts, presumably follicles, which have become occluded and distended with retained secretion. They are called the ovula Nabothi. The mucous membrane covering the lower half of the cervical canal presents numerous papillae. The epithelium of