167 MALAR BONE four processes, the frontal, orbital, maxillary, and zygomatic ; and four borders. The external surface (fig. 159) is smooth, convex, perforated near its centre by one or two small apertures, the malar foramina, for the passage of nerves and vessels, covered by the Orbicu- laris palpebrarum muscle, and affords attachment to the Zy- Fig. i SQ.-Left malar bone. Outer surface. sphenoid, part of the floor and §1^,^ outer wall of the orbit. Its in- fero-external surface, smooth and convex, forms part of the zygomatic and temporal fossae. Its anterior margin^ is smooth and rounded, forming part of the circumference of the orbit. Its siqjerior margin, rough, and directed horizontally, articulates with the frontal bone behind the external angular process. Its ijosterior margin is rough, and serrated for articu- lation w^ith the sphenoid ; internally it is also serrated for articulation with the orbital surface of the superior maxillary. At the angle of junction of the sphe- ^noidal and maxillary portions, a short, rounded, non-articular margin is generally seen ; this forms the anterior boundary of the spheno-maxillary fissure : occasion- ally, no such non-articular margin exists, the fissure being completed by the direct -junction of the maxillary and sphenoid bones, or by the interposition of a small Wormian bone in the angular interval between them. On the upiier surface of the orbital process are seen the orifices of one or two temporo-malar canals ; one of these usually opens on the posterior surface, the other (occasionally two) on the facial surface: they transmit filaments (temporo-malar) of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The maxillary process is a rough, triangular surface which articulates with the superior maxillary bone. The zygomatic process, gomaticus major and minor muscles. The internal surface (fig. 160), directed backwards and inwards, is concave, presenting internally a rough, triangular surface, for articulation with the superior maxillary bone; and externally, a smooth, concave surface, which above forms the anterior boundary of the tem- poral fossa, and below, where it is wider, forms part of the zygo- matic fossa. This surface pre- sents, a little above its centre, the aperture of one or two malar canals, and affords attachment to part of two muscles, the Tem- poral above and the Masseter below. Of the four processes, the frontal is thick and serrated, and articulates wdth the external angular process of the frontal bone. The orbital process is a thick and strong plate, which projects backwards from the orbital margin of the bone. Its supero-internal surface, smooth and concave, forms, by its junc- tion with the orbital surface of the superior maxillary bone and with the great wing of the Fig. 160.—Left malar bone. Inner surface.