65 MUCOUS MEMBRANE abdomen ; the two pleuras and the pericardium, Hning the lungs and heart respec- tively ; and the tunicae vaginales, surrounding each testicle in the scrotum.* Serous membranes are thin, transparent, glistening structures, lined on their inner surface by a single layer of polygonal or pavement endothelial cells, supported on a matrix of fibrous connective tissue, with networks of fine elastic fibres, in which is con- tained numerous capillaries and lymphatics. On the surface of the endothelium between the cells numerous apertures or interruptions are to be seen. Some of these are stomata, surrounded by a ring of cubical epithelium (see fig. 12), and communicate with a lymphatic capillary (see p. 55) ; others (pseudostomata) are mere interruptions in the epithelial layer, and are occupied by processes of the branched connective-tissue corpuscle of the subjacent tissue or by accumulations of the intercellular cement-substance. The secretion of these membranes is, in most cases, only sufticient in quantity to moisten the surface, but not to furnish any appreciable quantity of fluid. When a small quantity can be collected, it appears to resemble in many respects the lymph, and like that fluid coagulates spontaneously ; but when secreted in large quantities, as in dropsy, it is a watery fluid, which gives a precipitate of albumen on boiling. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES Synovial membranes, like serous membranes, are connective-tissue membranes placed between two movable tissues, so as to diminish friction, as between the two articular ends of the bones forming a movable joint; between a tendon and a bone, where the former glides over the latter ; and between the skin and various subcutaneous bony prominences. The synovial membranes are composed essentially of connective tissue, with the cells and fibres of that structure, containing numerous vessels and nerves. It was formerly supposed that these membranes were analogous in structure to the serous membranes, and consisted of a layer of flattened cells on a basement- membrane. No such cells, however, exist, and the only ones found on the surface are irregularly branched connective-tissue corpuscles, similar to those found through- ; out the tissue. Here and there these cells are collected in patches and present the appearance of epithelium, but do not possess the true characters of an endothelial layer. They are surrounded and held together by an albuminous ground-substance. A further description of the synovial membranes will be found in the descriptive anatomy of the joints. MUCOUS MEMBRANE Mucous membranes line all those passages by which the internal parts com- municate with the exterior, and are continuous with the skin at the various orifices jof the surface of the body. They are soft and velvety, and very vascular, and jtheir surface is coated over by their secretion, mticus, which is of a tenacious consistence, and serves to protect them from the foreign substances introduced into the body with which they are brought in contact. They are described as lining the two tracts—the gastro-pulmonary and the genito-urinary; and all, or almost all, mucous membranes may be classed as belonging to and continuous with the one or the other of these tracts. The external surfaces of these membranes are attached to the parts which they tine by means of connective tissue, which is sometimes very abundant, forming a oose and lax bed, so as to allow considerable movement of the opposed surfaces pn each other. It is then termed the suhmucoiis tissue. At other times it is exceedingly scanty, and the membrane is closely connected to the tissue beneath ; * The arachnoid membrane lining the brain and spinal cord was formerly regarded as I serous membrane, but is now no longer classed with them, as it differs from them in structure, and does not form a shut sac as do the other serous membranes. F