NERVOUS SYSTEM 696 tion upwards of the reticular formation of the medulla and by the grey matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle. Microscopic Anatomy of the Pons.—This presents the same reticular structure as in the medulla, consisting of longitudinal fibres continued upwards from the medulla, with interlacing transverse fibres betw^een which is interspersed grey matter with nerve-cells, especially in the deeper layers. Many of the deep trans- verse fibres join the nerve-cells, which are situated in the grey matter (nuclei X>ontis) of this layer. From these cells other fibres are given off which ascend through the pons to the crus cerebri. In the lower part of this portion of the pons is a small isolated collection of grey matter, the superior olivary nucleus, enclosed by some of the deep transverse fibres, called the trapezium. It is situated close to the medulla, behind the superficial longitudinal fibres from the pyramid and immediately above the olivary body. The fibres of the trapezium, which are probably connected with the cells of the nucleus, pass to the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. Near the floor of the fourth ventricle important collections of nerve-cells are found, from which some of the cranial nerves arise. One of these forms the nucleus of the sensory root of the fifth nerve ; a second, the nucleus of the motor part of the same nerve; a third, the nucleus of the sixth nerve; and a fourth, the nucleus of the facial nerve. The nucleus of the auditory nerve, situated just at the junction of the pons and medulla, is prolonged upwards into the pons. Septum.—The posterior part of the pons is subdivided into lateral halves by a medium septum, but this does not extend into the anterior half, being here obliterated by the transverse fibres. It is formed mainly by the decussation and change in the direction of fibres as they cross the middle line. Cerebrum (fig. 415) The cerebrum constitutes the largest portion of the encephalon. Its under surface or base is of an irregular form, resting in front on the anterior and middle fossae of the skull, and behind upon the tentorium cerebelli. Its upper surface is of an ovoid form, broader behind than in front, convex in its general outline, and divided into lateral halves or hemispheres, right and left, by the great longitudinal fissure, which extends throughout the entire length of the cerebrum in the middle line, reaching down to the base of the brain in front and behind, but interrupted in the middle by a broad transverse commissure of white matter, the corpus callosum, which connects the two hemispheres together. This fissure lodges the falx cerebri, and indicates the original development of the brain by two lateral halves. Each hemisphere presents an outer surface, which is convex to correspond with the vault of the cranium ; an inner surface, which is flattened, and in contact with the opposite hemisphere (the two inner surfaces forming the sides of the longitudinal fissure) ; and an under surface or base, of an irregular form, which rests in front on the anterior and middle fossae of the base of the skull, and behind upon the tentorium cerebelli. Upper Surface of the Cerebrum If the arachnoid and pia mater are removed, the entire surface of each hemi- sphere will be seen to present a number of depressions (fissiires and sulci) separating a number of convoluted eminences (the convolutions or gyri). The depressions are of two kinds, fissures and sulci. The fissures are few in number; they are constant in their arrangement, and are produced by the foldings of the cerebrum during the process of development. They involve both grey and white matter. The sulci are more numerous ; they are superficial depressions of the grey matter, which is folded inwards and only indents the central white substance ; they vary in different brains and in different parts of the same brain. The Convolutions.—There is no accurate resemblance between the convolutions