382 MUSCLES AND FASCIA of the palate bone, and by a second slip from the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone, and from the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone ; its fibres pass downwards, outwards, and backwards, to be inserted, by a strong, tendinous lamina into the low^er and back part of the inner side of the ramus and angle of the lower jaw, as high as the dental foramen. Relations.—By its external surface, with the ramus of the lower jaw, from which it is separated, at its upper part, by the External pterygoid, the internal lateral ligament, the internal maxillary artery, the dental vessels and nerves, and the lingual nerve. By its internal surface, with the Tensor palati, being separated from the Superior constrictor of the pharynx by a cellular interval. Nerves.—These muscles are supplied by the inferior maxillary nerve. Actions.—The Temporal and Masseter and Internal pterygoid raise the lower jaw against the upper with great force. The superficial portion of the Masseter assists the External pterygoid in drawing the lower jaw forwards upon the upper, the jaw being drawn back again by the deep fibres of the Masseter, and posterior fibres of the Temporal. The External pterygoid muscles are the direct agents in the trituration of the food, drawing the lower jaAV directly forwards, so as to make the lower teeth project beyond the upper. If the muscle of one side acts, the corresponding side of the jaw is drawn forwards, and the other condyle remaining fixed, the symphysis deviates to the opposite side. The alternation of these movements on the two sides produces trituration. Surface Form.—The outline of the muscles of the head and face cannot be traced on the surface of the body, except in the case of two of the masticatory muscles. Those of the head are thin, so that the outline of the bone is perceptible beneath them. Those in the face are small, covered by soft skin, and often by a considerable layer of fat, so that their outline is concealed; but they serve to round off and smooth prominent borders, and to fill up what would be otherwise unsightly angular depressions. Thus, the Orbicularis palpebrarum rounds off the prominent margin of the orbit, and the Pyramiclalis nasi fills in the sharp depression beneath the glabella, and thus softens and tones down the abrupt depres- sion which is seen on the unclothed bone. In like manner, the labial muscles, converging to the lips, and assisted by the superimposed fat, fill in the sunken hollow of the lower part of the face. Although the muscles of the face are usually described as arising from the bones, and inserted into the nose, lips, and corners of the mouth, they have fibres inserted into the skin of the face along their whole extent, so that almost every point of the skin of the face has its muscular fibre to move it; hence it is that when in action the facial muscles produce alterations in the skin-surface, giving rise to the formation of various folds or wrinkles, or otherwise altering the relative position of parts, so as to produce the varied expressions with which the face is endowed; hence these muscles are termed the ' Muscles of expression.' The only two muscles in this region which greatly influence surface-form are the Masseter and the Temporal. The Masseter is a quadrilateral muscle, which impa^rts fulness to the hinder part of the cheek. When the muscle is firmly contracted, as when the teeth are clenched, its outline is plainly visible ; the anterior border forms a prominent vertical ridge, behind which is a considerable fulness, especially marked at the lower part of the muscle ; this fulness is entirely lost when the mouth is opened, and the muscle no longer in a state of contraction. The Temporal muscle is fan-shaped, and fills the Temporal fossa, substituting for it a some- what convex form, the anterior part of which, on account of the absence of hair over the temple, is more marked than the posterior, and stands out in strong relief when the muscle is in a state of contraction. MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE NECK The muscles of the Neck may be arranged into groups, corresponding with the region in which they are situated. These groups are nine in number :— 1. Superficial Region. 5. 2. Depressors of the Os Hyoides 6. and Larynx. 7. 3. Elevators of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. 8. 4. Muscles of the Tongue. Muscles of the Pharynx. Muscles of the Soft Palate. Muscles of the Anterior Ver- tebral Region. Muscles of the Lateral Ver- tebral Region. 9. Muscles of the Larynx.