2o8 THE SKELETON the ribs, and taper towards their sternal extremities, excepting the first two, which are of the same breadth throughout, and the sixth, seventh, and eighth, which are enlarged where their margins are in contact. In direction they also vary : the first descends a little, the second is horizontal, the third ascends slightly, whilst all the rest follow the course of the ribs for a short extent, and then ascend to the sternum or preceding cartilage. Each costal cartilage presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The anterior surface is convex, and looks forwards and upwards : that of the first gives attachment to the costo-clavicular ligament and the Subclavius muscle ; that of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth, at their sternal ends, to the Pectoralis major.* The others are covered by, and give partial attach- ment to, some of the great flat muscles of the abdomen. The posterior surface is concave, and directed backwards and downwards, the first giving attachment to the Sterno-thyroid, and the six or seven inferior ones aftbrding attachment to the Transversalis muscle and the Diaphragm. Of the two borders, the superior is concave, the inferior convex : they afford attachment to the Intercostal muscles, the upper border of the sixth giving attachment to the Pectoralis major muscle. The contiguous borders of the sixth, seventh, and eighth, and sometimes the ninth and tenth, costal cartilages present small, smooth, oblong-shaped facets at tlie points where they articulate. Of the two extremities, the outer one is continuous with the osseous tissue of the rib to which it belongs. The inner extremity of the first is continuous with the sternum ; the six succeeding ones have rounded extremities, which are received into shallow concavities on the lateral margins of the sternum. The inner extremities of the eighth, ninth, and tenth costal cartilages are pointed, and are connected with the cartilage above. Those of the eleventh and twelfth are free and pointed. The costal cartilages are most elastic in youth, those of the false ribs being more so than the true. In old age they become of a deep yellow colour, and are prone to calcify. Attachment of Muscles.—To nine : the Subclavius, Sterno-thyroid, Pectoralis major. Internal oblique, Transversalis, Eectus, Diaphragm, Triangularis sterni, and Internal intercostals. Surface Form.—The bones of the chest are to a very considerable extent covered by muscles, so that in the strongly-developed muscular subject they are for the most part concealed. In the emaciated subject, on the other hand, the ribs, especially in the lower and lateral region, stand out as prominent ridges with the sunken, intercostal spaces between them. In the middle line, in front, the superficial surface of the sternum is to be felt through- out its entire length, at the bottom of a deep median furrow situated between the two great pectoral muscles and called the sternal furrow. These muscles overlap the anterior surface somewhat, so that the whole of the sternum in its entire width is not subcu- taneous, and this overlapping is greater opposite the centre of the bone than above and below, so that the furrow is wider at its upper and low er part, but narrower in the middle. The centre of the upper border of the sternum is ^•isible, constituting the presternal notch, but the lateral parts of this border are obscured by the tendinous origins of the Sterno-mastoid muscles, which present themselves as oblicjue tendinous cords, which narrow and deepen the notch. Lower down on the subcutaneous surface a w^ell-defined transverse ridge is always to be felt. This denotes the line of junction of the m;\.nubrium and body of the bone and is a useful i^uide to the second costal cartilat^e, and tluis to the identity of any given rib. The second rib bein.i^' found, through its costal cartilage, it is easy to count downwards and find any other. Lelow this point the furrow spreads out, and, exposing more of the surface of tlie body of the sternum, terminates below in a sudden depression, the infra-sternal depression or pit of the stomach {scrohiculiis cordis), which. corresponds to the ensiform cartilage. This depression lies between the cartilages of the seventh rib, and in it the ensiform cartilage may be felt. The sternum iii its vertical diameter presents a general convexity forwards, the most prominent point of which is at the joint between the manubrium and gladiolus. On each side of the sternum the costal cartilages and ribs on the front of the chest are partially obscured by the great pectoral muscle; through which, however, they are to be felt as ridges, with depressed intervals between them, corresponding to the intercostal spaces. Of these spaces, the one between the second and third ribs is the widest, the next * The first and seventh also, occasionally, give origin to the same muscle.