558 ARTERIES the neck of the first rib, and the cord of the sympathetic nerve; the recurrent laryngeal nerve winds round the lower and back part of the vessel. The subclavian vein lies below the subclavian artery, immediately behind the clavicle. Plan of Relations of First Portion of the Right Subclavian Artery In front. Skin, superficial fascia. Platysma, deep fascia. Clavicular origin of Sterno-mastoid. Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-thyroid. Internal jugular and vertebral veins. Pneumogastric, cardiac, and phrenic nerves. Beneath. Pleura. Behind. Recurrent larnygeal nerve. Sympathetic. Longus colli. Neck of first rib. First Part of the Left Subclavian Artery (fig. 344) The left subclavian artery arises from the end of the arch of the aorta, opposite the fourth dorsal vertebra, and ascends nearly vertically to the inner margin of the Scalenus anticus muscle. This part of the vessel is, therefore, longer than the right, situated more deeply in the cavity of the chest, and directed nearly vertically upwards instead of arching outwards like the vessel of the opposite side. It is in relation, in front, ^Yith the pleura, the left lung, the pneumogastric, cardiac, and phrenic nerves, which lie parallel with it, the left carotid artery, left internal jugular and vertebral veins, and the commencement of the left innominate vein, and is covered by the Sterno-thyroid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles ; it has the left carotid in front of, but not in contact with it; behind, it is in relation with the oesophagus, thoracic duct, inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, Longus colli, and vertebral column. To its inner side are the oesophagus, trachea, and thoracic duct; to its outer side, the pleura. Plan of Relations of First Portion of Left Subclavian Artery In front. Pleura and left lung. Pneumogastric, cardiac, and phrenic nerves. Left carotid artery. Left internal jugular, vertebral, and innominate veins. Sterno-thyroid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles. Inner side. Trachea. (Esophagus. Thoracic duct. Outer side. Pleura. Behind. CEsophagus and thoracic duct. Inferior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. Longus colli and vertebral column.