THE UEINABY ORGANS THE KIDNEYS TH!E Kidneys, two in number, are situated in the back part of the abdomen, and are for the purpose of separating from the blood certain materials which, when dissolved in a quantity of water, also separated from the blood by the kidneys, constitute the urine. They are placed in the loins, one on each side of the vertebral column, behind the peritoneum, and surrounded by a mass of fat and loose areolar tissue. Their upper extremity is on a level with the upper border of the twelfth dorsal vertebra, their lower extremity on a level with the third lumbar. The right kidney is usually on a slightly lower level than the left, probably on account of the vicinity of ihe liver. The kidneys rest on the lower part of the Diaphragm and the fascia covering the Quadratus lumborum and the Psoas magnus muscles. The right one is covered in front by the right lobe of the liver, the descending portion of the duodenum, and the ascending colon; the left one has in front the fundus of the stomach, the tail of the pancreas, and the descending colon. Each kidney is about four inches in length, two to two and a half in breadth, and rather more than one inch in thickness. The left is somewhat longer, though narrower, than the right. The weight of the kidney in the adult male varies from 4^ ounces to 6 ounces, in the adult female from 4 ounces to ounces. The com- bined weight of the two kidneys in proportion to the body is about i in 240. The kidney has a characteristic form. It is flattened on its sides, and presents at one part of its circumference a hollow. It is larger at its upper than its lower extremity. It presents for examination two surfaces, two borders, and an upper and lower extremity. Its anterior surface is convex, looks forwards and outwards, and is partially covered by peritoneum. The upper part of this surface on the right side is in contact with the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, on which it produces a slight concave impression, the impressio renalis (page 934) ; below this, the descending portion of the duodenum, and the upper part of the ascending colon are connected to this surface by a quantity of loose areolar tissue. On the left side the upper part of the anterior surface of the kidney is in contact with the under surface of the stomach, and below this with the left extremity of the pancreas, whilst the lower part is connected to the descending colon by loose areolar tissue. The posterior surface is flatter than the anterior, and is embedded in areolar tissue, which separates it from the Diaphragm covering the twelfth rib, and from the anterior lamellae of the lumbar fascia covering the Quadratus lumborum muscle, and internally from the fascia covering the Psoas magnus muscle. The external border is convex, and is directed outwards and backwards, towards the posterolateral wall of the abdomen. On the left side it is in contact, at its upper part, with the spleen. The internal border is concave, and is directed forwards and a little downwards. It presents a deep longitudinal fissure, bounded by a prominent overhanging ante- rior and posterior lip. This fissure is named the hihmi, and allows of the passage of the vessels, nerves, and ureter into and out of the kidney.