TEMPORAL BONE 149 serves partly for the attachment of the Levator palati and Tensor tympani muscles : 2. the large, circular aperture of the carotid canal, which ascends at first vertically, and then, making a bend, runs horizontally forwards and inwards ; it transmits the internal carotid artery and the carotid plexus : 3. the aquc&chictus cochlecB, a small, triangular opening, lying on the inner side of the latter, close to the posterior border of the petrous portion ; it transmits a vein from the cochlea, which joins the internal jugular: 4. behind these openings a deep depression, the jiigidar fossa, which varies in depth and size in different skulls; it lodges the lateral sinus, and, with a similar depression on the margin of the jugular process of the occipital bone, forms the foramen lacerum posterius, or jugular foramen : 5. a small foramen for the passage of Jacobson's nerve (the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal); this foramen is seen in front of the bony ridge dividing the carotid canal from the jugular fossa : 6. a small foramen on the outer wall of the jugular fossa, for the entrance of the auricular branch of the pneumogastric (Arnold's) nerve : 7. behind the jugular fossa, a smooth, square-shaped facet, the jugular surface ; it is covered with cartilage in the recent state, and articulates with the jugular process of the occipital bone : 8. the vaginal process, a very broad, sheath-hke plate of bone, which extends backwards from the carotid canal and gives attachment to part of the Tensor palati muscle ; this plate divides behind into two laminae, the outer of which is continuous with the auditory process, the inner with the jugular process: between these laminae is the 9th point for examination, the styloid process ; a long, sharp spine, about an inch in length; it is directed downwards, forwards, and inwards, varies in size and shape, and sometimes consists of several pieces united by cartilage ; it affords attachment to three muscles, the Stylo-pharyngeus, Stylo- hyoideus, and Stylo-glossus ; and two ligaments, the stylo-hyoid and stylo-maxil- lary : 10. the stylo-mastoid foramen, a rather large orifice, placed between the styloid and mastoid processes; it is the termination of the aquaeductus Fallopii, and transmits the facial nerve and stylo-mastoid artery : 11. the auricular fissure, situated between the auditory and mastoid processes, for the exit of the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve. Borders.—The superior, the longest, is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus, and has attached to it the tentorium cerebelli; at its inner extremity is a semilunar notch, upon which the fifth nerve lies. The posterior border is intermediate in length between the superior and the anterior. Its inner half is marked by a groove, which, when completed by its articulation with the occipital, forms the channel for the inferior petrosal sinus. Its outer half presents a deep excavation—the jugular fossa—which, with a similar notch on the occipital, forms the foramen lacerum posterius. A projecting eminence of bone occasionally stands out from the centre of the notch, and divides the foramen into two parts. The anterior border is divided into two parts—an outer joined to the squamous portion by a suture, the remains of which are distinct; an inner, free, articulating with the spinous process of the sphenoid. At the angle of junction of the petrous and squamous portions are seen two canals, separated from one another by a thin plate of bone, the processus cochleariformis ; they both lead into the tympanum, the upper one transmitting the Tensor tympani muscle, the lower one the Eustachian tube. Structure.—The squamous portion is like that of the other cranial bones : the mastoid portion cellular, and the petrous portion dense and hard. Development (fig. 142).—The temporal bone is developed by ten centres, exclusive of those for the internal ear and the ossicula—viz. one for the squamous portion including the zygoma, one for the tympanic plate, six for the petrous and mastoid parts, and two for the styloid process. Just before the close of foetal life the temporal bone consists of four parts: i. The squamo-zygomatic, which is ossified in membrane from a single nucleus, which appears at its lower part about the second month. 2. The tympanic plate, an imperfect ring, which encloses the tympanic membrane. This is also ossified from a single centre, which appears rather later than that for the squamous portion. 3. The pietro-masioid, which is developed from six centres, which appear about the fifth or sixth month. Four of