THE STOMACH 907 in length, and directed obliquely from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right sacro-iliac symphysis (fig. 526). Its intestinal border is much longer ; and here its two layers separate, so as to enclose the intestine, and form its peri- toneal coat. Its breadth, between its vertebral and intestinal border, is about four inches. Its upper border is continuous with the under surface of the transverse meso-colon; its loioer border, with the peritoneum covering the caecum and ascending colon. It serves to retain the small intestines in their position, and contains between its layers the mesenteric vessels and nerves, the lacteal vessels, and mesenteric glands. The meso-ccBcum serves to connect the back part of the caecum with the pos- terior wall of the abdomen, being continuous with the ascending meso-colon. The ascending meso-colon is the fold which connects the back part of the ascending colon with the posterior wall of the abdomen ; and the descending meso- colon retains the descending colon in connection with the posterior abdominal wall; more frequently the peritoneum merely covers the anterior surface and sides of these two portions of the intestine. At the place where the transverse colon turns downwards to form the descending colon, a fold of peritoneum is continued upwards to the under surface of the Diaphragm opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs. This is the costo-colic ligament; it passes below the spleen, and serves to support this organ and prevent it moving. The transverse meso-colon is a broad fold, which connects the transverse colon to the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is formed by the two ascending layers of the great omentum, which, after separating to surround the transverse colon, join behind it, and are continued backwards to the spine, where they diverge in front of the duodenum. This fold contains between its layers the vessels which supply the transverse colon. The sigmoid meso-colon is the fold of peritoneum which retains the sigmoid flexure in connection with the left iliac fossa. The meso-rectum is the narrow fold which connects the upper part of the rectum with the front of the sacrum. It contains the superior hgemorrhoidal vessels. The appendices epiploicce are small pouches of the peritoneum filled with fat, and situated along the colon and upper part of the rectum. They are chiefly appended to the transverse colon. The Stomach 527.^Diagrammatic outline of the stomach. The Stomach is the principal organ of digestion. It is the most dilated part of the alimentary canal. Its form is irregularly conical, curved upon itself, and presenting a rounded base, turned to the left side. It is placed, in part, immediately behind ^the anterior wall of the abdomen, and, in part, beneath the liver and Diaphragm and above the transverse colon. It is placed" almost 'Fig. vertically in the abdomen, so that the fundus which projects upwards and to the left of the oesophageal opening touches the Diaphragm, while the pyloric or lesser extremity is directed downwards and to the right, so that the opening by which the stomach communicates with the small intestine is situated slightly to the right of the median line of the body (fig. 527) : the stomach is situated, therefore, for the most part, in the left hypochondriac region ; the pyloric extremity occupying, however, the epigastric region. Its size varies considerably in difterent subjects, and also according to its state of distension. When moderately full its vertical diameter is about twelve inches, its transverse diameter about four. Its weight. ■ cuTde-sac