1056 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNIA except that, instead of enveloping the testicle, that body can be felt below the rupture. Direct Inguinal Heenia In direct inguinal hernia the protrusion makes its way through some part of the abdominal wall internal to the epigastric artery. At the lower part of the abdominal wall is a triangular space (Hesselbach's triangle), bounded, externally, by the deep epigastric artery ; internally, by the margin of the Rectus muscle ; below, by Poupart's ligament. The conjoined tendon is stretched across the inner two-thirds of this space, the remaining portion of the space having only the subperitoneal areolar tissue, and the transversalis fascia between the peritoneum and the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle. In some cases the hernial protrusion escapes from the abdomen on the outer side of the conjoined tendon, pushing before it the peritoneum, the subserous areolar tissue, and the transversalis fascia. It then enters the inguinal canal, passing along nearly its whole length, and finally emerges from the external ring, receiving an investment from the intercolumnar fascia. The coverings of this form of hernia are precisely similar to those investing the oblique form, with the insignificant difference that the infundibuliform fascia is replaced by a portion derived from the general layer of the fascia transversalis. In other cases, and this is the more frequent variety, the hernia is either forced through the fibres of the conjoined tendon, or the tendon is gradually distended in front of it, so as to form a complete investment for it. The intestine then enters the lower end of the inguinal canal, escapes at the external ring, lying on the inner side of the cord, and receives additional coverings from the superficial fascia and the integument. This form of hernia has the same coverings as the oblique variety, excepting that the conjoined tendon is substituted for the Cremaster, and the infundibuliform fascia is replaced by a portion derived from the general layer of the fascia transversalis. The difference between the position of the neck of the sac in these two forms of direct inguinal hernia has been referred, with some probability, to a difference in the relative positions of the obliterated hypogastric artery and the deep epigastric artery. "When the course of the obliterated hypogastric artery corresponds pretty nearly with that of the deep epigastric, Avhich is regarded as the normal arrange- ment, the projection of these arteries towards the cavity of the abdomen produces two fossae in the peritoneum. The bottom of the external fossa of the peritoneum corresponds to the position of the internal abdominal ring, and a hernia which distends and pushes out the peritoneum lining this fossa is an oblique hernia. When, on the other hand, the obliterated hypogastric artery lies considerably to the inner side of the deep epigastric artery, corresponding to the outer margin of the conjoined tendon, it divides the triangle of Hesselbach into two parts, so that three depressions will be seen on the inner surface of the lower part of the abdominal wall: viz. an external one, on the outer side of the deep epigastric artery ; a middle one, between the deep epigastric and the obliterated hypogastric arteries; and an internal one, on the inner side of the obliterated hypogastric artery. In such a case a hernia may distend and push out the peritoneum forming the bottom of either fossa. When the hernia distends and pushes out the peritoneum forming the bottom of the external fossa, it is an oblique or external inguinal hernia. When the hernia distends and pushes out the peritoneum forming the bottom of either the middle or the internal fossa, it is a direct or internal hernia. The anatomical difference between these two forms of direct or internal inguinal hernia is that, when the hernia protrudes through the middle fossa—that is, the fossa between the deep epigastric and the obliterated hypogastric arteries—it will enter the upper part of the inguinal canal; consequently its coverings will be the same as those of an oblique hernia, with the insignificant difference that the infundibuliform fascia is replaced by a portion derived from the general layer of