193 SURFACE FORM OF SKULL smallest of the three, is situated at the upper and back part of each nasal fossa, occupying the posterior third of the outer wall. It is situated between the superior and middle turbinated bones, and has opening into it two foramina, the spheiio- vcdatine at the back of its outer wall, and the posterior ethmoidal cells at the front part of the outer wall. The opening of the sphenoidal sinuses is usually at the upper and back part of the nasal fossje immediately behind the superior turbinated bone. The middle meatus is situated between the middle and inferior turbinated bones, and occupies the posterior two-thirds of the outer wall of the nasal fossa. It presents two apertures. In front is the orifice of the infundihulum, by which the middle meatus communicates with the anterior ethmoidal cells, and through these with the frontal sinuses. At the centre of the outer wall is the orifice of the antrum, which varies somewhat as to its exact position in different skulls. The in ferior meatus, the largest of the three, is the space between the inferior turbinated bone and the floor of the nasal fossa. It extends along the entire length of the outer wall of the nose, is broader in front than behind, and presents anteriorly the lower orifice of tlic canal for the nasal duct. The anterior nares present a heart-shaped or pyriform opening, whose long axis is vertical, and narrow extremity upwards. This opening in the recent state is much contracted by the cartilages of the nose. It is bounded above by the inferior border of the nasal bone; laterally by the thin, sharp margin which separates the facial from the nasal surface of the superior maxillary bone; and below by the same border, where it slopes inwards to join its fellow of the opposite side at the anterior nasal spine. The posterior nares are the two posterior oval openings of the nasal foss*, by which they communicate with the upper part of the pharynx. They are situated immediately in front of the basilar process, and are bounded above by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid ; below by the posterior border of the horizontal plate of the palate-bone ; externally by the internal surface of the internal pterygoid plate ; and internally, in the middle line, they are separated from each other by the guttural border of the Vomer. Surface Form.—-The various bony prominences or landmarks which are to be easily felt and recognised in the head and face, and which afford the means of mapping out the important structures comprised in this region, are as follow:— 1. Supra-orbital arch. 8. Parietal eminences. 2. Internal angular process. 9. Temporal ridge. 3. External angular process. 10. Frontal eminences. 4. Zygomatic arch. 11. Superciliary ridges. 5. Mastoid process. 12. Nasal bones. 6. External occipital protuberance. 13. Lower margin of orbit. 7. Superior curved line of occipital bone. 14. Lower jaw. I. The supra-orbital arches are to be felt throughout their entire extent, covered by the eyebrows. They form the upper boundary of the circumference or base of the orbit and separate the face from the forehead. They are strong and arched, and terminate internally on each side of the root of the nose, in the internal angular process, which articulates with the lachrymal bone. Externally they terminate in the external angular jjrocess which articulates with the malar bone. This arched ridge is sharper and more defined in its outer than in its inner half, and forms an overhanging process which protects and shields the lachrymal gland. It thus protects the eye in its most exposed situation and in the direction from which blows are more likely to descend. The supra-orbital arch varies in prominence in different individuals. It is more marked in the male than in the female, and in some races of mankind than others. In the less civilised races, as the forehead recedes backwards, the supra-orbital arch becomes more prominent and approaches more to the characters of the monkey tribe, in which the supra-orbital arches are very largely developed and acquire additional prominence from the oblique direction of the frontal bone. 2. The internal angular j^rocess is scarcely to be felt. Its position is indicated by the angle formedby the supra-orbital arch with the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone and the lachrymal bone at the inner side of the orbit. IBetween the mternal angular processes of the two sides is a broad surface which assists in forming the root of the nose, and immediately above this a broad, smooth, somewhat triangular surface, the glabella, situated between the superciliary ridges. 3. The external angular process is much more strongly marked than the internal, and is plainly to be felt. It is formed by the junction or conifliience of the supra-orbital and temporal ridges, and, articulating with the malar bone, it serves to a very considerable extent to support the bones of the face. In carnivorous animals the 0