141 FRONTAL BONE this suture is usually obliterated, and the bone forms one piece; traces of the obliterated suture are, however, generally perceptible at the lower part. On either side of this ridge, a little below the centre of the bone, is a rounded eminence, the frontal eminence. These eminences vary in size in different individuals, and are occasionally unsymmetrical in the same subject. They are especially prominent in cases of well-marked cerebral development. The whole surface of the bone above this part is smooth, and covered by the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis muscle. Below the frontal eminence, and separated from it by a slight groove, is the sui^erciliary ridge, broad internally, where it is continuous with the nasal eminence, but less distinct as it arches outwards. These ridges are caused by the projection outwards of the frontal sinuses,* and give attachment to the Orbicularis palpebrarum and Corrugator supercilii. Between the two superciliary ridges is a Fig. 135.—Frontal bone. Outer surface. smooth surface, the glabella or nasal eminence. Beneath the superciliary ridge is the suijra-orhital arch, a curved and prominent margin, which forms the upper boundary of the orbit, and separates the vertical from the horizontal portion of the bone. The outer part of the arch is sharp and prominent, affording to the eye, in that situation, considerable protection from injury ; the inner part .is less promi- nent. At the junction of the internal and middle third of this arch is a notch, sometimes converted into a foramen by a bony process, and called the supra-orbital * Some confusion is occasioned to students commencing the study of anatomy by the name ' sinuses ' having been given to two perfectly different kinds of spaces connected with the skull. It may be as well, therefore, to state here, at the outset, that the ' sinuses' in the interior of the cranium which jjroduce the grooves on the inner surface of the bones are venous channels along which the blood runs in its passage back from the brain, while the 'sinuses' external to the cranial cavity (the frontal, sphenoidal, ethmoidal, and maxillary) are hollow spaces in the bones themselves, which communicate with the nostrils, and contain air.