LIGAMENTS 969 Structure.—The cornicula laryngis, cuneiform cartilages, and epiglottis are composed of yellow fibro-cartilage, which shows little tendency to calcification; but the other cartilages resemble in structure the costal cartilages, becoming more or less calcified in old age. Ligaments.—The ligaments of the larynx are extrinsic, i.e. those connecting the thyroid cartilage and epiglottis with the hyoid bone, and the cricoid cartilage with the trachea ; and iiitrinsic, those which connect the several cartilages of the larynx to each other. The ligaments connecting the thyroid cartilage with the hyoid bone are three in number—the thyro-hyoid membrane, and the two lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments. The thyro-hyoid membrane is a broad, fibro-elastic, membranous layer, attached below to the upper part of the posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage, and above to the upper border of the hyoid bone, passing behind the posterior surface, and being separated from it by a synovial bursa. It is thicker in the middle line than at either side, in which situation it is pierced by the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve. The tiuo lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments are rounded, elastic cords, which pass between the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage and the extremities of the greater cornua of the hyoid bone. A small cartilaginous nodule (cartilago triticea), sometimes bony, is frequently found in each. The ligament connecting the epiglottis with the hyoid bone is the hyo-epigiottic. In addition to this extrinsic ligament, the epiglottis is connected to the tongue by the three glosso-epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane, which may also be considered as extrinsic ligaments of the epiglottis. The hyo-epiglottic ligament is an elastic fibrous band, which extends from the anterior surfa,ce of the epiglottis, near its apex, to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. The ligaments connecting the thyroid cartilage to the cricoid are also three in. number—the crico-thyroid membrane, and the capsular ligaments. The crico-thyroid membrane is composed mainly of yellow elastic tissue. It is of triangular shape ; thick in front, where it connects together the contiguous margins of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages ; thinner at each side, where it extends from the superior border of the cricoid cartilage to the inferior margin of the true vocal cords, with which it is closely united in front. The anterior portion of the crico-thyroid membrane is convex, concealed on each side by the Crico-thyroid muscle, subcutaneous in the middle line, and crossed horizontally by a small anastomotic arterial arch, formed by the junction of the two crico-thyroid arteries. The lateral portions are lined internally by mucous membrane, and covered by the lateral Crico-arytenoid and Thyro-arytenoid muscles. A cajjsidar ligament encloses the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid with the cricoid cartilage on each side. The articulation is lined by synovial membrane. The ligaments connecting the arytenoid cartilages to the cricoid are two capsular ligaments, and two posterior crico-arytenoid ligaments. The capsular crico-arytenoid ligaments are thin and loose capsules attached to the margin of the articular surfaces ; they are lined internally by synovial membrane. The posterior crico-arytenoid ligaments extend from the cricoid to the inner and back part of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The ligament connecting the epiglottis with the thyroid cartilage is the thyro- epiglottic. The thyro-epiglottic ligament is a long, slender, elastic cord which connects the apex of the epiglottis with the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage immediately beneath the median notch, above the attachment of the vocal cords. The crico-tracheal ligament connects the cricoid cartilage with the first ring of the trachea. It resembles the fibrous membrane which connects the cartilaginous rings of the trachea to each other.