DEVELOPMENT OF FACE 87 Fig. 91.—Vertical section of the head in early embryos of the rabbit. Magnified. (From Mihalkovics.) may he divided into two sets, according as they are placed in front or behind the buccal cavity or mouth, the former being known as the pre-oral, and the latter as the ]jost-oral or visceral arches. Four clefts on each side appear laterally in the undifferentiated somato-splanchno-pleural wall of the fore-gut, and between them thickenings occur which ultimately meet and fuse in the middle line, and above are connected with the investing mass. These are the so-called post-oral vis- ceral arches. Differen- tiation of tissue occurs from above downwards, and cartilage is formed in them in connection with the investing mass. The first post- oral arch has no cleft in front of it, but forms a rim in front of the fore-gut. The pre-oral arches are formed in much the same way by local thickening, in which differentiation of tissue and formation of cartilage proceeds in a direction forwards and downwards from the in- vesting mass. The ijre-oral or maxillary arcli unites with the fronto-nasal process. The latter con- sists of three plates, a central single one and two lateral ones. The central is called the ^ mid-frontal' process. It is prolonged down- wards and forwards from the middle of the base of the skull, from the point of coalescence of nose is developed. . From fill embryo of five millimetres long. b. From au embryo of six millimetres long. c. Vertical section of the anterior end of the notochord and pituitary body, &c., from an embryo sixteen millimetres long. In A, the faucial opening is still closed. In B, it is formed, c. Anterior cerebral vesicle, mc. Meso-cerebrum. 7no. Medulla oblongata, co. Corneous layer, m. Medullary layer, if. Infundibulum. am. Amnion, spe. Spheno-ethmoidal, he. Central (dorsum sellee), and spo, spheno-occipital parts of the basis cranii. h. Heart. /. Anterior extremity of primitive alimentary canal and opening (later) of the fauces, i. Cephalic portion of primitive intestine, tha. Thala- mus. 2^'- Closed opening or the involuted part of the pituitary body (py) ch. Notochord. ph. Pharynx. the two trabeculse cranii, and from it the septum of the It is free in front and below, but behind it is united with the coalesced portion of the trabecule, which therefore probably assists in the forma- tion of the septum nasi, and, in addition, of the prominent part of the future nose. The lateral plates of the fronto-nasal process are separated from the central one by a depression or furrow on either side ; these furrows form the primary nasal pits or fossae. The lateral plates project downwards parallel to the mid-process for a certain distance, and then, curving inwards, unite with it, thus shutting off the nasal fossae from the rest of the face. The lateral masses of the ethmoid and lachrymal bones are developed in the lateral plates, and by their union with the mid-frontal process form the intermaxillary bone and the lunula, or central part of the upper hp. The maxillary processes spring from the base of the skull further back than