935 STRUCTUKE OF THE LIVER Vessels.—The vessels connected with the hver are also five in number: they are, the hepatic artery, the portal vein, the hepatic vein, the hepatic duct, and the lymphatics. The hepatic artery and portal vein, accompanied by numerous lymphatics and nerves, ascend to the transverse fissure, between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. The hepatic duct, lying in company with them, descends from the transverse fissure between the layers of the same omentum. The relative position of the three structures is as follows :—The hepatic duct lies to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the portal vein behind and between the other two. They are enveloped in a loose areolar tissue, the capsule of Glisson, which accompanies the vessels in their course through the portal canals, in the interior of the organ. The hepatic veins convey the blood from the liver. They commence in the substance of the liver, in the capillary terminations of the portal vein and hepatic artery ; these tributaries, gradually uniting, usually form three large veins, which converge towards the posterior surface of the liver and open into the inferior vena cava, whilst that vessel is situated in the groove at the back part of this organ. Of these three veins, one from the right and another from the left lobe open Fig. 549.—Longitudinal section of an Fig. 5 50.—Longitudinal section of a small hepatic vein. (After Kiernan.) portal vein and canal. (After Kiernan.) f)rific.es of mtralobidar veins removed obliquely into the vena cava: that from the middle of the organ and lobulus Spigelii having a straight course. The hepatic veins have no cellular investment, consequently their parietes are adherent to the walls of the canals through which they run ; so that, on a section of the organ, these veins remain widely open and solitary, and may be easily dis- tinguished from the branches of the portal vein, which are more or less collapsed, and always accompanied by an artery and duct. The hepatic veins are destitute of valves. The lymphatics are large and numerous, consisting of a deep and superficial set. They have been already described. Nerves.—The nerves of the liver are derived from the hepatic plexus of the sympathetic, from the pneumogastric nerves, especially the left, and from the right phrenic. Structure.—The substance of the liver is composed of lobules, held together by an extremely fine areolar tissue, and of the ramifications of the portal vein, hepatic duct, hepatic artery, hepatic veins, lymphatics, and nerves ; the whole being invested by a serous and a fibrous coat.