973 MUSCLES OF LARYNX Its fibres pass horizontally backwards and outwards, to be inserted into the base and anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. This muscle consists of two fasciculi. The inner or inferior portion, the thicker, is inserted into the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, and into the adjacent portion of its anterior surface ; it lies parallel with the true vocal cord, to which it is adherent. The oiUer or superior fasciculus, the thinner, is inserted into the anterior surface and outer border of the arytenoid cartilage above the preceding fibres; it lies on the outer side of the sacculus laryngis, immediately beneath the mucous membrane.* Arytenoideus rectus.—This is a small, but fairly constant muscle, which was first described by Luschka, and named by him the Arytenoideus rectus. It is attached below to the posterior, concave surface of the arytenoid cartilage, beneath the Arytenoideus muscle, and, passing upwards, emerges at the upper border of this muscle, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the cartilage of Santorini.| The muscles of the epiglottis are, the Thyro-epiglottideus. Aryteno-epiglottideus superior. Aryteno-epigiottideus inferior. The Thyro-epiglottideus is a delicate fasciculus, which arises from the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage, just external to the origin of the Thyro-arytenoid muscle, and spreads out upon the outer surface of the sacculus laryngis : some of its fibres are lost in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, whilst others are continued forwards to the margin of the epiglottis {Depressor epiglottidis). The Aryteno-epiglottideus superior consists of a few delicate muscular fasciculi, which arise from the apex of the arytenoid cartilages, and become lost in the fold of mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilage and side of the epiglottis {aryteno-epiglottidean folds). The Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior {Compressor sacculi laryngis, Hilton) arises from the arytenoid cartilage, just above the attachment of the superior vocal cord; passing forwards and upwards, it spreads out upon the anterior surface of the epiglottis. This muscle is separated from the preceding by an indistinct areolar interval.t Actions.—In considering the action of the muscles of the larynx, they may be conveniently divided into two groups, viz. : i. Those which open and close the glottis. 2. Those which regulate the degree of tension of the vocal cords. I. The muscles which open the glottis are the Crico-arytenoidei postici; and those which close it are the Arytenoideus and the Crico-arytenoidei laterales. 2. The muscles which regulate the tension of the vocal cords are the Crico- thyroidei, which tense and elongate them ; and the Thyro-arytenoidei, which relax and shorten them. The Thyro-epiglottideus is a depressor of the epiglottis, and the Aryteno-epiglottidei constrict the superior aperture of the larynx, compress the sacculi laryngis, and empty them of their contents. The Crico-arytenoidei postici separate the chordae vocales, and, consequently, open the glottis, by rotating the arytenoid cartilages outwards around a vertical axis passing through the crico-arytenoid joints; so that their anterior angles and the ligaments attached to them become widely separated, the vocal cords, at the same time, being made tense. The Crico-arytenoidei laterales close the glottis, by rotating the arytenoid cartilages inwardi:!, so as to approximate their anterior angles. The Arytenoideus muscles approximate the arytenoid cartilages, and thus close the opening of the glottis, especially at its back part. The Crico-thyroid muscles produce tension and elongation of the vocal cords. This * Henle describes these two portions as separate muscles, under the names of External and Internal thyro-arytenoid. + Anatomy, by Hyrtl, page 718. X MuscuLUS TRiTiCEO-GLOSSUS. Bochdalck jun. (Prager Vierteljahrsschrift, 2nd part, 1866) describes a muscle hitherto entirely overlooked, except a brief statement in Henle's Anatomy, which arises from the nodule of cartilage {coiyus triticeum) in the posterior thyro-hyoid ligament, and passes forwards and upwards to enter the tongue along with the Hyo-glossus muscle. He met with this muscle eight times in twenty-two subjects. It occurred in both sexes, sometimes on both sides, at others on one only.