I40 THE SKELETON portion of the skull which in the foetus is membranous, and is called the anterior fontanelle. The anterior inferior angle is thin and lengthened, being received in the interval between the great wing of the sphenoid and the frontal. Its inner surface is marked by a deep groove, sometimes a canal, for the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery. The posterior superior angle corresponds with the junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures. In the foetus this part of the skull is membranous, and is called the p)osterior fontanelle. The posterior inferior angle | articulates with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and generally presents | on its inner surface a broad, shallow groove for lodging part of the lateral sinus. Development.— The parietal bone is formed in membrane, being developed by one centre, which corresponds with the parietal eminence, and makes its first | appearance about the seventh or eighth week of foetal life. Ossification gradually extends from the centre to the circumference of the bone : the angles are conse- quently the parts last formed, and it is in their situation that the fontanelles exi^i previous to the completion of the growth of the bone. ! Articulations.—With five bones : the opposite parietal, the occipital, frontal temporal, and sphenoid. Attachment of Muscles.—One only, the Temporal. The Feontal Bone j The Frontal Bone (frons, the forehead) resembles a cockle-shell in foi"m, ar}: consists of two portions—a vertical or frontal portion situated at the anterior pa I of the cranium, forming the forehead; and a horizontal or orhito-nasal porti', which enters into the formation of the roof of the orbits and nasal fossas. ' Vertical Toition.— External Surface (f^g. 135).—In the median line, traversri the bone from the upper to the lower part, is occasionally seen a slightly elevatl; ridge, and in young subjects a suture, which represents the line of union of thetj lateral halves of which the bone consists at an early period of life : in the sA^l