NASAL BONE 159 anterior foutanelle, and were likened to the rising of water in a fountain. The anterior fontanelle is the largest, and corresponds to the junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures; the posterior fontanelle, of smaller size, is situated at the junction of the sagittal and lamhdoid sutiu-es; the remaining ones are situated at the inferior angles of each parietal bone. The latter are closed soon after birth; the two at the two superior angles remain open longer; the posterior being closed in a few months after birth; the anterior remaining open until the first or second year. These spaces are gradually filled in by an extension of the ossifying process, or by the development of a Wormian bone. Some- times the anterior fontanelle remains open beyond two years, and is occasionally persistent throughout life. Supernumerary or Wormian* Bones In addition to the constant centres of ossification of the skull, additional ones are occasionally found in the com'se of the sutures. These form irregular, isolated bones, interposed between the cranial bones, and have been termed Wormian bodies or ossa triquetra. They are most frequently found in the course of the lambdoid suture, but occasionally also occupy the situation of the fontanelles, especiall}^ the posterior and, more rarely, the anterior. Frequently one is found between the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone and the greater wing of the sphenoid, the i^^^rion ossicle (fig. 151). They have a great tendency to be symmetrical on the two sides of the skull, and they vary much in size, being in some cases not larger than a pin's head, and confined to the outer table; in other cases so large that one pair of these bones may form the whole of the occipital bone above the superior curved lines, as described by Beclard and Ward. Their number is generally limited to two or three; but more than a hundred have been found in the skull of an adult hydrocephalic skeleton. In their development, structure, and mode of articulation, they resemble the other cranial bones. Congenital Fissures and Gaps Atl arrest in the ossifying process may give rise to deficiencies, or gaps ; or to fissures, which are of importance in a medico-legal point of view, as they are liable to be mistaken for fractures. The fissures generally extend from the margins towards the centre of the bone, but the gaps may be found in the middle as well as at the edges. In course of time they may become covered with a thin lamina of bone. Bones of the Face The Facial Bones are fourteen in number—viz. the Two Nasal. Two Palate. Two Superior Maxillary. Two Inferior Turbinated. Two Lachrymal. Vomer. Two Malar. Inferior Maxillary. ' Of these, the upper and lower jaws are the fundamental bones for mastication, and the others are accessories ; for the chief function of the facial bones is to provide an apparatus for mastication, while subsidiary functions are to provide for the sense-organs (eye, nose, tongue) and a vestibule to the respiratory and vocal organs. Hence the variations in the shape of the face in man and the lower animals depend chiefly on the question of the character of their food and their mode of obtaining it.' f Nasal Bone The Nasal (nasus, the nose) are two small oblong bones, varying in size and form in different individuals ; they are placed side by side at the middle and upper part of the face, forming, by their junction, ' the bridge ' of the nose. Each bone presents for examination two surfaces and four borders. The outer surface is concave from above downwards, convex from side to side ; it is covered by the Pyramidalis and Compressor nasi muscles, and gives attachment at its upper part to a few^ fibres of the Occipito-frontalis muscle (Theile). It is marked by numerous small arterial furrows, and perforated about its centre by a foramen, sometimes * Wormius, a physician in Copenhagen, is said to have given the first detailed descrip- tion of these bones. t W. W. Keen. American edition, p. 185.