GENERAL ANATOMY 44 nerve-fibres ' is signified their connections with the nerve-centres, and with the parts they supply. The former are sometimes called their origin, or central termination ; the latter their loeripheral termination. The origin in some cases is single—that is to say, the whole nerve emerges from the nervous centre by a single root; in other instances the nerve arises by two or more roots, which come off from different parts of the nerve-centre, sometimes widely apart from each other, and it often happens, when a nerve arises in this way by two roots, that the functions of these two roots are different; as, for example, in the spinal nerves, each of which arises by two roots, the anterior of which is motor, and the posterior sensory. The point where the nerve root or roots emerge from the nervous centre is named the superficial or ajjparent origin, but the fibres of which the nerve consists can be traced for a certain distance into the nervous centre to some portion of the grey substance, which constitutes the deej) or real origin of the nerve. The exact manner in which the fibres of which the nerve-root is made up arise at their deep origin, is, to a certain extent, uncertain. But it would appear pro- bable that there are two modes in which they originate and are connected with the nerve-cells. If the multipolar nerve-cells are examined, it will be found that one at least of their processes does not branch ; this process is named the axial-cylinder process, and at first has all the characters of an axis-cylinder. Soon, however, it acquires a medullary sheath, and has been traced to be directly continuous with a nerve-fibre. Other processes of a multipolar cell divide and subdivide as they pass away from the cell, until at last they form branches of extreme tenuity, and form an excessively minute network. These processes apparently consist of cell proto- plasm, and are named protoplasm processes. From the network which they form minute medullated nerve-fibres arise. So that it would appear that nerve-fibres arise : first, directly through the passage of the non-branched axis-cylinder process into a fibre; and, secondly, through the minute network formed by the branched protoplasm processes. Peripheral Terminations of Nerves.—The manner in which nerve-fibres ter- minate peripherally are several, and may be conveniently studied in the sensory and motor nerves respectively. Sensory nerves would appear to terminate either in minute primitive fibrillag or networks of these ; or else in special terminal organs, which have been termed peripheral end-organs, and of which there are three principal varieties, viz. the end-bulbs of Krause, the tactile corpuscles of Wagner, and the Pacinian corpuscles. Termination in fibrillae.—When a medullated nerve-fibre approaches its ter- mination, the white matter of Schwann suddenly disappears, leaving only the axis-cylinder, surrounded by the neurilemma, and we have now a non-medullated fibre. This undergoes repeated division, and after a time loses its neurilemma, and consists only of an axis-cylinder, which can be seen, in preparations stained with chloride of gold, to be made up of fine varicose fibrils. Finally, the axis- cylinder breaks up into its constituent primitive nerve-fibrillae, which anastomose with one another, thus forming a network, and often present regular varicosities. This network passes between the elements of the tissue to which the nerves are distributed, which is always epithelial, the nerve-fibrils lying in the interstitial substance between the epithelial cells, and, as is believed by some, actually termi- nating loithin the cells, as minute swellings close to the nucleus. In this way nerve-fibres have been found to terminate in the epithelium of the skin and mucous membranes, and in the anterior epithelium of the cornea. The end-bulbs of Krause (fig. 52) are minute oblong or cylindrical corpuscles, into the interior of which the axis-cylinder of the nerve-fibre passes, and termi- nates in a coiled, plexiform mass or in a bulbous extremity. The corpuscle consists of a simple nucleated capsule, containing a soft, homogeneous core, in which the termination of the axis-cylinder is contained. The white matter of Schwann ceases abruptly as the axis-cylinder enters the corpuscle, but the perineurium is continued inwards with the axis-cylinder, and forms an investment of the core, lining the interior of the capsule. The end-bulbs have been described as occurring