THE SKELETON 204 Fig. 185.—A central rib of right side. Inner surface. Tiiherosiiij The Ribs The Ribs are ehistic arches of bone, which form the chief part of the thoracic walls. They are twelve in number on each side ; but this number may be increased by the development of a cervical or lumbar rib, or may be dimin- ished to eleven. The first seven are connected behind with the spine, and in front with the sternum, through the intervention of the costal cartilages; they are called true ribs. The remaining five are false ribs ; of these, the first three have their cartilages attached to the cartilage of the rib above : the last two are free at their anterior extremities; they are termed floating ribs. The ribs vary in their direction, the upper ones being less oblique than those lower down and occupying the middle of the series. The extent of obliquity reaches its maximum at the ninth rib, and gradually decreases from that rib to the twelfth. The ribs are situated one below the other in such a manner that spaces are left between them, which are called intercostal spaces. The length of these spaces corresponds to the length of the ribs ; their breadth is more considerable in front than behind, and between the upper than between the lower ribs. The ribs increase in length from the first to the seventh, when they again diminish to the twelfth. In breadth they decrease from above downwards ; in the upper ten the greatest breadth is at the sternal extremity. Common Characters of the Ribs (fi< A rib from the middle of the series should be taken in order to study the common characters of the ribs. Each rib presents two extremities, a pos- terior or vertebral, an anterior or sternal, and an intervening portion—the body or shaft. The posterior or vertebral extremity pre- sents for examination a head, neck, and tuber- osity. The head (fig. 186) is marked by a kidney- shaped articular surface, divided by a horizontal ridge into two facets for articulation with the costal cavity formed by the junction of the bodies of two contiguous dorsal vertebrae ; the upper facet is small, the inferior one of larger size ; the ridge separating them serves for the attachment of the interarticular ligament. The neck is that flattened portion of the rib which extends outwards from the head; it is about an inch long, and is placed in front of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebrae with Avhich the head articulates. Its anterior surface is flat and smooth, posterior rough, for the attachment of the middle costo-transverse ligament, and perforated by numerous foramina, the 185).-