THE SKELETON 28o with the cuboid ; the rough, non-articular surface serves for the attachment of an interosseous hgament. The three facets for articulation with the three metatarsal bones are continuous with one another, and covered by a prolongation of the same cartilage ; the facets for articulation with the middle cuneiform and navicular are also continuous, but that for articulation with the cuboid is usually separate. The superior or dorsal surface is of an oblong square form ; its posterior external angle being prolonged backwards. The inferior or plantar surface is an obtuse rounded margin, and serves for the attachment of part of the tendon of the Tibiahs posticus, part of the Flexor brevis hallucis, and ligaments. To ascertain to which side the bone belongs, hold it with the broad dorsal surface upw^ards, the prolonged edge backwards ; the separate articular facet for the cuboid will point to the proper side. Articulations.—With six bones : the navicular, middle cuneiform, cuboid, and second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles.—To two : part of the Tibialis posticus, and Flexor brevis hallucis. The Metatarsal Bones The Metatarsal Bones are five in number ; they are long bones, and present for examination a shaft and two extremities. Common Characters.—The shaft is prismoid in form, tapers gradually from the tarsal to the phalangeal extremity, and is slightly curved longitudinally, so as to be concave below, slightly convex above. The posterior extremity, or base, is wedge-shaped, articulating by its terminal surface with the tarsal bones, and by its lateral surfaces with the contiguous metatarsal bones: its dorsal and plantar surfaces being rough for the attachment of ligaments. The anterior extremity, or head, presents a terminal rounded articular surface, oblong from above downwards, and extending further backwards below than above. Its sides are flattened, and present a depression, surmounted by a tubercle, for ligamentous attachment. Its under surface is grooved in the middle line for the passage of the Flexor tendon, and marked on each side by an articular eminence continuous with the terminal articular surface. Peculiar Characters.—The First is remarkable for its great thickness, but is the shortest of all the metatarsal bones. The shaft is strong, and of Avell-marked prismoid form. The posterior extremity presents no lateral articular facets ; its terminal articular surface is of large size, kidney-shaped; its circumference is grooved, for the tarso-metatarsal ligaments, and internally gives attachment to part of the tendon of the Tibialis anticus ; its inferior angle presents a rough oval prominence for the insertion of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The head is of large size ; on its plantar surface are two grooved facets, over which glide sesamoid bones ; the facets are separated by a smooth elevated ridge. This bone is known by the single kidney-shaped articular surface on its base ; the deeply grooved appearance of the plantar surface of its head ; and its great thickness, relatively to its length. When it is placed in its natural position, the concave border of the kidney-shaped articular surface on its base points to the side to which the bone belongs. The Second is the longest and largest of the remaining metatarsal bones, being prolonged backwards into the recess formed between the three cuneiform bones. Its tarsal extremity is broad above, narrow and rough below. It presents four articular surfaces: one behind, of a triangular form, for articulation with the middle cuneiform ; one at the upper part of its internal lateral surface, for articu- lation with the internal cuneiform ; and two on its external lateral surface, a posterior and anterior, separated by a vertical ridge. Each of these external articular surfaces is divided by a rough depression into two parts ; the two anterior facets articulate with the third metatarsal; the two posterior (sometimes continuous) with the external cuneiform. The facets on the tarsal extremity of the second metatarsal bone serve at once