VERTEBEAL 563 Relations.~At its origin, it is situated behind the internal jugular vein and inferior thyroid artery and near the spine : it lies between the Longus colli and Scalenus anticus muscles, having the thoracic duct in front of it on the left side. Within the foramina formed by the transverse processes of the vertebrae, it is accompanied by a plexus of nerves from the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and is surrounded by a dense plexus of veins which unite to form the vertebral vein at the lower part of the neck. It is situated in front of the cervical nerves, as they issue from the intervertebral foramina. Whilst winding round the articular process of the atlas, it is contained in a triangular space {suboccipital triangle) toTmedi by the Rectus capitis posticus major, the Superior and the Inferior oblique muscles ; and at this point is covered by the Complexus muscle. Within the skull, as it winds round the medulla oblongata, it is placed between the hypo- glossal nerve and the anterior root of the suboccipital nerve, beneath the first digitation of the ligamentum denticulatum, and finally lies between the dura mater covering the basilar process of the occipital bone and the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata. Branches.—These may be divided into two sets—those given off in the neck, and those within the cranium. The lateral spinal branches enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina, and divide into two branches. Of these, one passes along the roots of the nerves to supply the spinal cord and its membranes, anastomosing with the other arteries of the spinal cord ; the other divides into an ascending and a descend- ing branch, which unite with similar branches from the artery above and below, so that two lateral anastomotic chains are formed on the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, near the attachment of the pedicles. From these anastomotic chains branches are given off, to supply the periosteum and the bodies of the vertebrae, and to communicate with similar branches from the opposite side ; from these latter small branches are given off which join similar branches above and below, so that a central anastomotic chain is formed on the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae. Muscular branches are given off to the deep muscles of the neck, where the vertebral artery curves round the articular process of the atlas. They anastomose with the occipital, and with the ascending and deep cervical arteries. The posterior meningeal are one or two small branches given off from the vertebral opposite the foramen magnum. They ramify between the bone and dura mater in the cerebellar fossae, and supply the falx cerebelli. The anterior spinal is a small branch, though larger than the posterior spinal, which arises near the termination of the vertebral, and, descending in front of the medulla oblongata, unites with its fellow of the opposite side at about the level of the foramen magnum. The single trunk, thus formed, descends on the front of the spinal cord, and is reinforced by a succession of small branches which enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina ; these branches are derived from the vertebral and ascending cervical of the inferior thyroid in the neck ; from the intercostal in the dorsal region; and from the lumbar, ilio- lumbar, and lateral sacral arteries in the lower part of the spine. They unite, by means of ascending and descending branches, to form a single anterior median artery, which extends as far as the lower part of the spinal cord. This vessel is placed in the pia mater along the anterior median fissure; it supplies that mem- brane, and the substance of the cord, and sends off branches at its lower part to be distributed to the cauda equina, and ends on the central fibrous prolongation of the cord. Cervical Branches. Lateral Spinal. Muscular. Cranial Branches. 'Posterior Meningeal. Anterior Spinal. Posterior Spinal. Posterior Inferior Cerebellar. 002