202 THE SKELETON pieces of which this part of the bone consists at an early period of hfe. At the junction of the third and fourth pieces is','occasionally seen an orifice, the sternal foramen; it varies in size and form in different individuals, and pierces the bone from before backwards. This surface affords attachment on each side to the sternal origin of the Pectoralis major. The posterior surface, slightly concave, is also marked by three transverse lines ; but they are less distinct than those in front: this surface affords attachment below, on each side, to the Triangularis sterni muscle, and occasionally presents the posterior opening of the sternal foramen. The superior border presents an oval surface for articulation with the manubrium. The inferior border is narrow, and articulates with the ensiform appendix. Each lateral border presents, at each superior angle, a small facet, which, with a similar facet on the manubrium, forms a cavity for the cartilage of the second rib ; the four succeeding angular depressions receive the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth,' and sixth ribs, whilst each inferior angle presents a small facet, which, with a corresponding one on the ensiform appendix, forms a notch for the cartilage of the seventh rib. These articular depressions are separated by a series of curved interarticular intervals, which diminish in length from above downwards, and correspond to the intercostal spaces. Most of the cartilages belonging to the true ribs, as will be seen from the foregoing description, articulate Avith the sternum at the line of junction of two of its primitive component segments. This is well seen in many of the lower animals, where the separate parts of the bone remain ununited longer than in man. In this respect a striking analogy exists between the mode of connection of the ribs with the vertebral column, and the connection of their cartilages with the sternal column. The Third Piece of the sternum, the Ensiform or Xiphoid Appendix {nwtn- sternum), is the smallest of the three ; it is thin and elongated in form, cartilaginous in structure in youth, but more or less ossified at its upper part in the adult. Its anterior surface affords attachment to the chondro-xiphoid ligament; its posterior surface, to some of the fibres of the Diaphragm and Triangularis sterni muscles; its lateral borders, to the aponeurosis of the abdominal muscles. Above, it articulates with the lower end of the gladiolus, and at each superior angle presents a facet for the lower half of the cartilage of the seventh rib; below, by its pointed extremity, it gives attachment to the linea alba. This portion of the sternum is very various in appearance, being sometimes pointed, broad and thin, sometimes bifid, or perforated by a round hole, occasionally curved, or deflected considerably to one or the other side. Structure.—The bone is composed of delicate cancellous structure, covered by a thin layer of compact tissue, Avhich is thickest in the manubrium, between the articular facets for the clavicles. Development.—The sternum, including the ensiform appendix, is developed by six centres : one for the first piece or manubrium, four for the second piece or gladiolus, and one for the ensiform appendix. Up to the middle of foetal life the sternum is entirely cartilaginous, and when ossification takes place the ossific granules are deposited in the middle of the intervals between the articular depres- sions for the costal cartilages, in the followiitg- order (fig. i8i). In the first piece, between the fifth and sixth months ; in the second and third, between the sixth and seventh months ; in the fourth piece, at the ninth month ; in the fifth, within the first year, or between the first and second years after birth ; and in the ensiform appendix, between the second and the seventeenth or eighteenth years, by a single centre which makes its appearance at the upper part, and proceeds gradually downwards. To these may be added the occasional existence, as described by Breschet, of two small episternal centres, which make their appearance one on each side of the interclavicular notch. They are probably vestiges of the episternal bone of the monotremata and lizards. It occasionally happens that some of the segments are formed from more than one centre, the number and position of which vary (fig. 183). Thus, the first piece may have two, three, or even six centres. When two are present, they are generally situated one above the other, the upper one