ARTEEIES 5^4 The posterior spinal arises from the vertebral, at the side of the medulla oblongata ; passing backwards to the posterior aspect of the spinal cord, it descends on each side, lying behind the posterior roots of the spinal nerves; and is reinforced by a succession of small branches, which enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina, and by which it is continued to the lower part of the cord, and to the cauda equina. Branches from these vessels form a free anasto- mosis round the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and communicate, by means of very tortuous transverse branches, with the vessel of the opposite side. At its commencement it gives off an ascending branch, which terminates on the side of the fourth ventricle. The posterior inferior cerebellar artery (fig. 354), the largest branch of the vertebral, winds backwards round the upper part of the medulla oblongata, passing between the origin of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves, over the restiform body to the under surface of the cerebellum, where it divides into two branches : an internal one, which is continued backwards to the notch between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum ; and an external one, which supplies the under surface of the cerebellum, as far as its outer border, where it anastomoses with the anterior inferior cerebellar and the superior cerebellar branches of the basilar artery. Branches from this artery supply the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. * Surgical Anatomy.—The vertebral artery has been tied in several instances: i, for woimds or traumatic aneurism ; 2, after ligature of the innominate, either at the same time to prevent haemorrhage, or later on to arrest bleeding where it has occurred at the seat of ligature ; and 3, in epilepsy. In tbese latter cases the treatment has been recom- mended by Dr. Alexander, of Liverpool, in the hope that by diminishing the supply of blood to the posterior part of the brain and the spinal cord, a diminution or cessation of the epileptic fits would result. The operation of ligature of the vertebral is performed by making an incision along the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, just above the clavicle. The muscle is pulled to the inner side and the anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra sought for. A deep layer of fascia being now divided, the interval between the Scalenus anticus and the Longus colli just below their insertion into the tubercle is defined, and the artery and vein found in the interspace. The vein is to be drawn to the outer side, and the aneurism needle passed from without inwards. I)rs. Eamskill and Bright have pointed out that severe pain at the back of the head may be symptomatic of disease of the vertebral artery just before it enters the skull. This is explained by the close connection of the artery with the suboccipital nerve in the groove on the posterior arch of the atlas. Disease of the same artery has been also said to affect speech, from pressure on the hypoglossal, where it is in relation with the vessel, leading to paralysis of the muscles of the tongue. The Basilar Artery, so named from its position at the base of the skull, is a single trunk formed by the junction of the two vertebral arteries ; it extends from the posterior to the anterior border of the pons Varolii, lying in its median groove, under cover of the arachnoid. It ends by dividing into two branches, the posterior cerebral arteries. Its branches are, on each side, the following :— Transverse. Superior Cerebral Anterior Inferior Cerebellar. Posterior Cerebral. The transverse branches supply the pons Varolii and adjacent parts of the brain; one branch, the internal auditory, accompanies the auditory nerve into the internal auditory meatus ; and another, the anterior inferior cerebellar artery, passes across the crus cerebelli, to be distributed to the anterior border of the under surface of the cerebellum. The superior cerebellar arteries arise near the termination of the basilar. They wind round the crus cerebri, close to the fourth nerve, and arriving at the upper surface of the cerebellum, divide into branches which ramify in the pia mater and anastomose with the branches of the inferior cerebellar artery. Several branches are given to the pineal gland, and also to the velum interpositum. The posterior cerebral arteries, the two terminal branches of the basilar, are larger than the preceding, from which they are separated near their origin by the