THE SKELETON 240 head upwards. The small, articular facet at the anterior inferior angle of the external surface will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With seven bones : the scaphoid and semilunar above ; the second, third, and fourth metacarpal below ; the trapezoid on the radial side ; and the unciform on the ulnar side. Attachment of Muscles.—Part of the Adductor obhquus poUicis. The Unciform (uncus, a hook; forma, likeness) may be readily distinguished by its wedge-shaped form, and the hook-like process that projects from its palmar surface. It is situated at the inner and lower angle of the carpus, with its base downwards, resting on the two inner metacarpal bones, and its apex directed upwards and outwards. The superior surface, the apex of the wedge, is narrow, convex, smooth, and articulates with the semilunar. The inferior surface articulates with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, the concave surface for each being separated by a ridge, which runs from before backwards. The posterior or dorsal surface is triangular and rough, for ligamentous attachment. The anterior or pahnar surface presents, at its lower and inner side, a curved, hook-Hke process of bone, the miciform process, directed from the palmar surface forwards and out- wards. It gives attachment, by its apex, to the annular ligament; by its inner surface to the Flexor brevis minimi digiti and the Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti; and is grooved on its outer side, for the passage of the Flexor tendons into the palm of the hand. This is one of the four eminences on the front of the carpus to which the anterior annular ligament is attached ; the others being the pisiform internally, the oblique ridge of the trapezium and the tuberosity of the scaphoid externally. The internal surface articulates with the cuneiform by an oblong facet, cut obliquely from above, downwards and inwards. The external surface articulates with the os magnum by its upper and posterior part, the remaining portion being rough, for the attachment of ligaments. Hold the bone with the hooked process away from you, and the articular surface, divided into two parts for the metacarpal bones, downwards. The concavity of the process will be on the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With five bones : the semilunar above, the fourth and fifth metacarpal below, the cuneiform internally, the os magnum externally. Attachment of Muscles.—To three : the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, the Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti, the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; and to the anterior annular ligament. The Metacarpus The Metacarpal Bones are five in number : they are long, cyhndrical bones, presenting for examination a shaft and two extremities. Common Chakactees of the Metacarpal Bones The shaft is prismoid in form, and curved longitudinally, so as to be convex in the longitudinal direction behind, concave in front. It presents three surfaces: two lateral and one posterior» The lateral surfaces are concave, for the attachment of the Interossei muscles, and separated from one another by a prominent line. The posterior or dorsal surface presents in its distal half a smooth, triangular, flattened area which is covered, in the recent state, by the tendons of the Extensor muscles. This triangular surface is bounded by two lines, which commence in small tubercles situated on the dorsal aspect of either side of the digital extremity, and, running backwards, converge to meet together a little behind the centre of the bone and form a ridge which runs along the rest of the dorsal surface to the carpal extremity. This ridge separates two lateral, sloping surfaces for the attachment of the Dorsal interossei muscles.* To the tubercles on the digital extremities are attached the lateral ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. The carpal extremity, or base, is of a cuboidal form, and broader behind than * By these sloping surfaces the metacarpal bones of the hand may be at once differen- tiated from those of the foot.