ARTICULATIONS 314 when the coccyx is freely movable, which is more especially the case during pregnancy. The different segments of the coccyx are connected together by an extension downwards of the anterior and posterior sacro-coccygeal hgaments, a thin annular disc of fibro-cartilage being interposed between each of the bones. In the adult male, all the pieces become ossified ; but in the female, this does not commonly occur until a later period of life. The separate segments of the coccyx are first united, and at a more advanced age the joint between the sacrum and coccyx is obliterated. Actions.—The movements which take place between the sacrum and coccyx, and between the different pieces of the latter bone, are slightly forwards and backwards ; they are very limited. Their extent increases during pregnancy. 4. Articulation of the Ossa Pubis (fig. 241) The articulation between the pubic bones is an amphiarthrodial joint, formed by the junction of the two oval articular surfaces of the ossa pubis. The articular surface has been described on a former page under the name of symphysis, and the same name is given to the joint. The ligaments of this articulation are the Anterior Pubic. Posterior Pubic. Superior Pubic. Subpubic. Interpubic Disc. The Anterior Pubic Ligament consists of several superimposed layers, which pass across the front of the articulation. The superficial fibres pass obliquely from one bone to the other, Ficx. 241.—Vertical section of the symphysis pubis, decussating and forming an in- terlacement with the fibres of the aponeurosis of the External oblique and the tendon of the Rectus muscles. The deep fibres pass transversely across the symphysis, and are blended with the fibro-cartilage. The Posterior Pubic Liga- ment consists of a few thin, scattered fibres, which unite the two pubic bones posteriorly. The Superior Pubic Liga- ment is a band of fibres, which connects together the two pubic bones superiorly. The Subpubic Ligament is a thick, triangular arch of liga- mentous fibres, connecting to- gether the two pubic bones below, and forming the upper boundary of the pubic arch. Above, it is blended with the interarticular fibro-cartilage; laterally, it is united with the rami of the OS pubis. Its fibres are closely connected, and have an arched direction. The Interpubic Disc consists of a disc of cartilage and fibro-cartilage- con- necting the surfaces of the pubic bones in front. Each pubic symphysis is covered by a thin layer of hyaline cartilage, which is firmly connected to the bone by a series of nipple-like processes which accurately fit within corresponding depres- sions on the osseous surfaces. These opposed cartilaginous surfaces are connected together by an intermediate stratum of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage which varies in thickness in different subjects. It often contains a cavity in its centre, l^robably formed by the softening and absorption of the fibro-cartilage, since it rarely appears before the tenth year of life, and is not lined by synovial membrane.