ARTEEIES 542 the incisor teeth as far as the symphysis, where it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side; the mental branch escapes with the nerve at the mental foramen, supplies the structures composing the chin, and anastomoses with the submental, inferior labial, and inferior coronary arteries. As the dental artery enters the foramen, it gives off a mylo-hyoid branch, which runs in the mylo-hyoid groove, and ramifies on the under surface of the Mylo-hyoid muscle. The dental and incisor arteries during their course through the substance of the bone give off a few twigs which are lost in the cancellous tissue, and a series of branches which correspond in number to the roots of the teeth : these enter the minute apertures at the extremities of the fangs, and supply the pulp of the teeth. Branches of the Second or Pterygoid Portion Deep Temporal. Masseteric. Pterygoid. Buccal. These branches are distributed, as their names imply, to the muscles in the maxillary region. The deep temporal branches, two in number, anterior and posterior, each occupy that part of the temporal fossa indicated by its name. Ascending between the Temporal muscle and pericranium, they supply that muscle, and anastomose with the other temporal arteries; the anterior branch communicating with the lachrymal through small branches which perforate the malar bone and great wing of the sphenoid. The pterygoid branches, irregular in their number and origin, supply the Pterygoid muscles. The masseteric is a small branch which passes outwards, above the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw, to the deep surface of the Masseter. It supplies that muscle, and anastomoses with the masseteric branches of the facial and with the transverse facial artery. The buccal is a small branch which runs obliquely forwards, between the Internal pterygoid and the ramus of the jaw, to the outer surface of the Buccinator, to which it is distributed, anastomosing with branches of the facial artery. Branches of the Third or Spheno-maxillary Portion Alveolar. Vidian. Infra-orbital. Pterygo-palatine. Posterior or Descending Palatine. Naso- or Spheno-palatine. The alveolar or posterior dental branch is given off from the internal maxillary by a common branch with the infra-orbital, and just as the trunk of the vessel is passing into the spheno-maxillary fossa. Descending upon the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, it divides into numerous branches, some of which enter the posterior dental canals, to supply the molar and bicuspid teeth and the lining of the antrum, and others are continued forwards on the alveolar process to supply the gums. The infra-orbital appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of the trunk of the internal maxillary. It arises from that vessel by a common trunk with the preceding branch, and runs along the infra-orbital canal with the superior maxil- lary nerve, emerging upon the face at the infra-orbital foramen, beneath the Levator labii superioris. Whilst contained in the canal, it gives off branches which ascend into the orbit, and supply the Inferior rectus and Inferior oblique musdes and the lachrymal gland. Other branches {anterior'- dental) descend through canals in the bone, to supply the mucous membrane of the antrum, and the front teeth of the upper jaw. On the face, some branches pass inwards towards the nose, anastomosing with the angular branch of the facial artery and nasal branch of the ophthalmic ; and other branches descend beneath the Levator labii superioris, and anastomose with the transverse facial and buccal branches.