OF THE BACK of the spine, to be inserted into a tubercle at the outer part of this smooth surface. The Trapezius, is fleshy in the greater part of its extent, but tendinous at its origin and insertion. At its occipital origin, it is connected to the bone by a thin fibrous lamina, firmly adherent to the skin, and wanting the lustrous, shining appearance of aponeuroses. At its origin from the spines of the vertebrjB, it is connected to the bones by means of a broad semi-elliptical aponeurosis, which occupies the space between the sixth cervical and the third dorsal vertebrae, and forms, with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle, a tendinous ellipse. The rest of the muscle arises by numerous short tendinous fibres. If the Trapezius is dissected on both sides, the two muscles resemble a trapezium, or diamond-shaped quadrangle; two angles corresponding to the shoulders; a third to the occipital protuberance; and the fourth to the spinous process of the last dorsal vertebra. The clavicular insertion of this muscle varies as to the extent of its attach- ment : it sometimes advances as far as the middle of the clavicle, and may even become blended with the posterior edge of the Sterno-mastoid, or overlap it. This should be borne in mind in the operation for tying the third part of the subclavian artery. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the integument. By its deep surface, in the neck, with the Complexus, SiDlenius, Levator anguli scapulae, and Ehomboideus minor ; in the back, with the Ehomboideus major, Supraspinatus, Infraspinatus, the Vertebral aponeurosis (which separates it from the prolongations of the Erector spinas), and the Latissimus dorsi. The spinal accessory nerve and the superficial cervical artery pass beneath the anterior border of this muscle, near the clavicle. The anterior margin of its cervical portion forms the posterior boundary of the posterior triangle of the neck, the other boundaries being the Sterno- mastoid in front, and the clavicle below. The Ligamentum nuchge (fig. 287) is a thin band of condensed cellulo-fibrous membrane, placed in the line of union between the two Trapezii in the neck. It extends from the external occipital protuberance to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra, where it is continuous with the supraspinous ligament. From its anterior surface a fibrous lamina is given off, which is attached to the spinous process of each of the cervical vertebrae, excepting the atlas, so as to form a septum between the muscles on each side of the neck. In man it is merely the rudiment of an important elastic ligament, which, in some of the lower animals, serves to sustain the weight of the head. The Latissimus dorsi is a broad flat muscle, which covers the lumbar and the lower half of the dorsal regions, and is gradually contracted into a narrow fasciculus at its insertion into the humerus. It arises by an aponeurosis from the spinous processes of the six inferior dorsal, from those of the lumbar and sacral vertebra, and from the supraspinous ligament. Over the sacrum, the aponeurosis of this muscle blends with the posterior layer of the lumbar fascia. It also arises from the external lip of the crest of the ilium, behind the origin of the External oblique, and by fleshy digitations from the three or four lower ribs, which are interposed between similar processes of the External oblique muscle (fig. 292, page 426). From this extensive origin the fibres pass in different directions, the upper ones horizontally, the middle obliquely upwards, and the lower vertically upwards, so as to converge and form a thick fasciculus, which crosses the inferior angle of the scapula, and occasionally receives a few fibres from it. The muscle then curves around the lower border of the Teres major, and is twisted upon itseh\ so that the superior fibres become at first posterior and then inferior, and the vertical fibres at first anterior and then superior. It then terminates in a short quadrilateral tendon, about three inches in length, which, passing in front of the tendon of the Teres major, is inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus; its insertion extending higher on the humerus than that of the tendon of the Pectoralis major. The lower border of the tendon of this muscle is united with that of the Teres major, the surfaces of the two being separated by a bursa ; another bursa is sometimes interposed between the muscle and the inferior