51 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM filaments or bundles of filaments, which twist around the vessel and unite with each other in a plexiform manner. The branches derived from these plexuses penetrate the external coat and are principally distributed to the muscular tissue of the middle coat, and thus regulate, by causing the contraction and relaxation of this tissue, the amount of blood sent to any part. The Capillaries.—The smaller arterial branches (excepting those of the caver- nous structure of the sexual organs, of the spleen, and in the uterine placenta) terminate in a network of vessels which pervade nearly every tissue of the body. These vessels, from their minute size, are termed capillaries {cajjillus, a ' hair'), They are interposed between the smallest branches of the arteries and the com- mencing veins, constituting a network, the branches of which maintain the same diameter throughout; the meshes of the network being more uniform in shape and size than those formed by the anastomoses of the small arteries and veins. The diameter of the capillaries varies in the different tissues of the body, their usual size being about 3 oVo of an inch. The smallest are those of the brain, and the mucous membrane of the intestines ; and the largest those of the skin and the marrow of bone, where they are stated to be as large as xsVo of an inch. The form of the capillary net varies in the different tissues, the meshes being generally rounded or elongated. The rounded form of mesh is most common, and prevails where there is a dense network, as in the lungs, in most glands and mucous membranes, and in the cutis ; here the meshes are more or less angular, sometimes nearly quadrangular, or polygonal ; more frequently irregular. Elongated meshes are observed in the bundles of fibres and tubes composing muscles and nerves, the meshes being usually of a parallelogram form, the long axis of the mesh running parallel with the long axis of the nerve and fibre. Some- times the capillaries have a looped arrangement; a single vessel projecting from the common network and returning after forming one or more loops, as in the papillae of the tongue and skin. The number of the capillaries, and the size of the meshes, determine the degree of vascularity of a part. The closest network and the smallest interspaces are found in the lungs and in the choroid coat of the eye. In these situations the interspaces are smaller than the capillary vessels them- selves. In the kidney, in the conjunctiva, and in the cutis the interspaces are from three to four times as large as the capillaries which form them ; and in the brain from eight to ten times as large as the capillaries in their long diameter, and from four to six times as large in their transverse diameter. In the adventitia of arteries the width of the meshes is ten times that of the capillary vessels. As a general rule, the more active the function of the organ, the closer is its capillary net and the larger its supply of blood ; the network being very narrow in all growing parts, in the glands and in the mucous membranes ; wider in bones and ligaments, which are comparatively inactive; and nearly altogether absent in jtendons, in which very little organic change occurs after their formation. J Structure.—The walls of the capillaries consist of a fine, transparent, endothelial [layer, composed of cells joined edge to edge by an interstitial cement-substance, and continuous with the endothelial cells which line the arteries and veins. When stained with nitrate of silver the edges which bound the endothelial cells are brought into view (fig. 59). These cells are of large size and of an irregular poly- jgonal or lanceolate shape, each containing an oval nucleus which may be brought into view by carmine or logwood. Between their edges, at various points of their meeting, roundish dark spots are sometimes seen, which have been described as stomata, though they are closed by intercellular substance. They have been believed to be the situation through which the white corpuscles of the blood, when ^migrating through the blood-vessels, emerge ; but this view, though x^robable, is not aniversally accepted. In many situations a delicate sheath or envelope of branched nucleated connective tissue cells is found around the simple capillary tube, particularly in the larger i3nes; and in other places, especially in the glands, the capillaries are invested with retiform lymphatic tissue ; and again, in other situations, as the pia mater of B 2