SPINAL NERVES 776 The Auricularis Magnus is the largest of the ascending branches. It arises from the second and third cervical nerves, winds round the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, and, after perforating the deep fascia, ascends upon that muscle beneath the Platysma to the parotid gland, where it divides into facial, auricular, and mastoid branches. The facial bmnches pass across the parotid, and are distributed to the integument of the face over the parotid gland ; others penetrate the substance of the gland, and communicate with the facial nerve. The aiiricular branches ascend to supply the integument of the back part of the pinna, except at its upper part, communicating with the auricular branches of the facial and pneumogastric nerves. The mastoid branch communicates with the occipitalis minor and the posterior auricular branch of the facial, and is distributed to the integument behind the ear. The Superficialis Colli arises from the second and third cervical nerves, turns round the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid about its middle, and, passing obliquely forwards beneath the external jugular vein to the anterior border of that muscle, perforates the deep cervical fascia, and divides beneath the Platysma into two branches, which are distributed to the antero-lateral parts of the neck. The ascending branch gives a filament which accompanies the external jugular vein ; it then passes upwards to the submaxillary region, and divides into branches, some of which form a plexus with the cervical branches of the facial nerve beneath the Platysma ; others pierce that muscle, supply it, and are distributed to the integument of the upper half of the neck, at its fore part, as high as the chin. The descending branch (occasionally represented by two or more filaments) pierces the Platysma, and is distributed to the integument of the side and front of the neck, as low as the sternum. The Descending or supraclavicular branches arise from the third and fourth cervical nerves : emerging beneath the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, they descend in the interval between that muscle and the Trapezius, and divide into branches, which are arranged, according to their position, into three groups. The inner or suprasternal branches cross obliquely over the clavicular and sternal attachments of the Sterno-mastoid, and supply the integument as far as the median line. The middle or supraclavicular branches cross the clavicle, and supply the integument over the Pectoral and Deltoid muscles, communicating with the cutaneous branches of the upper intercostal nerves. The external or supra-acromial branches pass obliquely across the outer surface of the Trapezius and the acromion, and supply the integument of the upper and back part of the shoulder. Deep Branches of the Cervical Plexus. Internal Series The communicating branches consist of several filaments, which pass from the loop between the first and second cervical nerves in front of the atlas to the pneumogastric, hypoglossal, and sympathetic; and a communicating branch between the fourth and fifth cervical. Muscular branches supply the Anterior recti and Rectus lateralis muscles; they proceed from the first cervical nerve, and from the loop formed between it and the second. The Communicans Hypoglossi (fig. 455) consists usually of two filaments, one being derived from the second, and the other from the third cervical. These filaments pass downwards on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, cross in front of the vein a little below the middle of the neck, and form a loop with the descendens hypoglossi in front of the sheath of the carotid vessels (see page 768). Occasionally, the junction of these nerves takes place within the sheath. The Phrenic Nerve {internal respiratory of Bell) arises chiefly from the fourth cervical nerve with a few filaments from the third and a communicating branch