86o ORGANS OF SENSE irritation. In voimg children the meatus is very short, the osseous part being very deficient, and consisting'merely of a bony ring (the tymjmnicijlate), which supports the membrana tympani. In the foetus, the osseous part is entirely absent. The shortness of the canal in children should be borne in mind in introducing the aural speculum, so that it be not pushed in too far, at the risk of injuring the membrana tympani; indeed, even in the adult the speculum should never be introduced beyond the constriction which marks the junction of the osseous and cartilaginous portions. In using this instrument it is advisable that the pinna should be drawn upwards, backwards, and a little outwards, so as to render the canal as straight as possible, and thus assist the operator in obtaining, by the aid of reflected light, a good view of the membrana tympani. Just in front of the membrane is a well-marked depression, situated on the floor of the canal, and bounded by a somewhat prominent ridge ; in this foreign bodies may become lodged. By aid of the speculum, combined with traction of the auricle upwards and backwards, the whole of the membrana tympani is rendered visible. It is a pearly-grey membrane, slightly glistening in the adult, placed obliquely, so as to form with the floor of the meatus a very acute angle, while with the roof it forms an obtuse angle. At birth it is more horizontal, situated in almost the same plane as the base of the skull. About midway between the anterior and posterior margins of the membrane, and extending from the centre obliquely upwards, is a reddish- yellow streak ; this is the handle of the malleus, which is inserted into the membrane. At the upper part of this streak, close to the roof of the meatus, a little white, rounded prominence is plainly to be seen; this is the processus brevis of the malleus, projecting against the membrane. The membrana tympani does not present a plane surface ; on the contrary, its centre is drawn inwards, on account of its connection with the handle of the malleus, and thus the external surface is rendered concave. Middle Ear, ok Tympanum The middle ear, or tympanum, is an irregular cavity, compressed from without inwards, and situated within the petrous bone. It is placed above the jugular fossa ; the carotid canal lying in front, the mastoid cells behind, the meatus auditorius externally, and the labyrinth internally. It is filled with air, and communicates with the pharynx by the Eustachian tube. The tympanum is traversed by a chain of movable bones, which connect the membrana tympani with the labyrinth, and serve to convey the vibrations communicated to the membrana tympani across the cavity of the tympanum to the internal ear. The cavity of the tympcmttm measures about five lines from before backwards, three lines in the vertical direction, and between two and three in the transverse, being a little broader behind and above than it is below and in front. It is bounded externally by the membrana tympani and meatus ; internally, by the outer surface of the internal ear ; and communicates, behind, with the mastoid cells ; and in front with the Eustachian tube and canal for the Tensor tympani. Its roof and floor are formed by thin osseous laminae, the one forming the roof being a thin plate situated on the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, close to its angle of junction with the squamous portion of the same bone. The roof is broad, flattened, and formed of a thin plate of bone, which separates the cranial and tympanic cavities. The floor is narrow, and corresponds to the' jugular fossa, which lies beneath. It presents, near the inner wall, a small aperture for the passage of Jacobson's nerve. The outer wall is formed mainly by the membrana tympani, partly by the ring of bone into which this membrane is inserted. Close to it are three small apertures : the iter chordae posterius, the Glaserian fissure, and the iter chordae anterius. The aperture of the iter choreics iwsterius is in the angle of junction between the posterior and external walls of the tympanum, immediately behind the membrana tympani and on a level with its centre ; it leads into a minute canal, which descends in front of the aqueductus Fallopii, and terminates in that canal near the stylo- mastoid foramen. Through it the chorda tympani nerve enters the tympanum. | The Glaserian fissure opens just above and in front of the ring of bone into which the membrana tympani is inserted; in this situation it is a mere slit about a line in length. It lodges the long process of the malleus, and gives passage to some tympanic vessels. The aperture of the iter cliordce anterius is seen just above the preceding fissure ;