176 THE SKELETON Changes produced in the Lower Jaw by Age The changes which the Lower Jaw undergoes after bn^th, relate (i) to the alterations effected in the body of the bone by the first and second dentitions, the loss of the teeth in the aged, and the subsequent absorption of the alveoli; (2) to the size and situation of the dental canal; and (3) to the angle at which the ramus joins with the body. At birth (fig. 168), the bone consists of lateral halves, united by fibrous tissue. The body is a mere shell of bone, containing the sockets of the two incisor, the canine, and the two temporary molar teeth, imperfectly j)artitioned from one another. The dental canal is of large size, and runs near the lower border of the bone, the mental foramen opening beneath the socket of the first molar. The angle is obtuse (175°), and the cond^doid portion nearly in the same horizontal line with the body; the neck of the condyle is short, and bent backwards. The coronoid process is of comparatively large size, and situated at right i angles with the rest of the bone. After hirtJi (fig. 169), the two segments of the bone become joined at the symphysis, : from below upwards, in the first year ; but a trace of separation may be visible in the ; beginning of the second year, near the alveolar margin. The bod^' becomes elongated in I its whole length, but more especially behind the mental foramen, to provide space for the j three additional teeth developed in this part. The depth of the body becomes greater, ' owing to increased growth of the alveolar part, to afford room for the fangs of the teeth, and by thickening of the subdental portion which enables the jaw to withstand the power- ful action of the masticatory muscles; but the alveolar portion is the deeper of the two, and, consequently, the chief part of the body lies above the oblique line. The dental canal, after the second dentition, is situated just above the level of the mylo-hyoid ridge; and the mental foramen occupies the position usual to it in the adult. The angle becomes less obtuse, owing to the separation of the jaws by the teeth. (About the fourth year it is 140°) In the adult (fig. 170), the alveolar and basilar portions of the body are usually of equal depth. The mental foramen opens midway between the upper and lower border of the bone, and the dental canal rims nearly parallel with the mylo-hyoid line. The ramus is almost vertical in direction, and joins the body nearly at right angles. In old age (fig. 171), the bone becomes greatly reduced in size ; for with the loss of the j| teeth the alveolar process is absorbed, and the basilar part of the bone alone remains; |j consequently, the chief part of the bone is below the oblique line. The dental canal, ;] with the mental foramen opening from it, is close to the alveolar border. The rami are 1, oblique in direction, the angle obtuse, and the neck of the condyle more or less bent !j backwards. THE SUTUKES The bones of the cranium and face are connected to each other by means of Sutures. That is, the articulating surfaces or edges of the bones are more or less roughened or uneven, and are closely adapted to each other, a small amount of intervening fibrous tissue fastening them together. The Cranial Sutures may be divided into three sets : i. Those at the vertex of the skull. 2. Those at the side of the skull. 3. Those at the base. The sutures at the vertex of the skull are three : the sagittal, coronal, and. lamhdoid. The Sagittal Suture {interparietal) is iovm^di by the junction of the two parietal bones, and extends from the middle of the frontal bone, backwards to the superior ; angle of the occipital. In childhood, and occasionally in the adult, when the two halves of the frontal bone are not united, it is continued forwards to the root of the nose. This suture is sometimes perforated, near its posterior extremity, by; the parietal foramen ; and in front, where it joins the coronal suture, a space is occasionally left, which encloses a large Wormian bone. The Coronal Suture (fronto-jjarietal) extends transversely across the vertex of the skull, and connects the frontal with the parietal bones. It commences at the, extremity of the greater wing of the sphenoid on one side, and terminates at the, same point on the opposite side. The dentations of the suture are more marked at the sides than at the summit, and are so constructed that the frontal rests or the parietal above, whilst laterally the frontal supports the parietal. The Lambdoid Suture (occijnto-parietal), so called from its resemblance to tb Greek letter A, connects the occipital with the parietal bones. It commences 01 each side at the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and inclines upwards to tht