609 EXTEENAL ILIAC obturator; one of these enters an oblique canal to supply the diploe, whilst others run along the crest of the ilium, distributing branches to the Gluteal and Abdominal muscles, and anastomose in their course with the gluteal, circumflex iliac, and external circumflex arteries. The Lateral Sacral Arteries (fig. 372) are usually two in number on each side, superior and inferior. The superior, which is of large size, passes inwards, and, after anastomosing with branches from the middle sacral, enters the first or second sacral foramen, is distributed to the contents of the sacral canal in the same manner as the lateral spinal branches from the vertebral, and, escaping by the corresponding posterior sacral foramen, supplies the skin and muscles on the dorsum of the sacrum, anastomosing with the gluteal. The inferior passes obliquely across the front of the Pyriformis muscle and sacral nerves to the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina, descends on the front of the sacrum, and anastomoses over the coccyx with the sacra media and opposite lateral sacral arteries. In its course it gives off branches, which enter the anterior sacral foramina ; these, after giving off branches to be distributed to the contents of the sacral canal in the same manner as the lateral spinal branches from the vertebral, escape by the posterior sacral foramina, and are distributed to the muscles and skin on the dorsal surface of the sacrum, anastomosing with the gluteal. The Gluteal Artery is the largest branch of the internal iliac, and appears to be the continuation of the posterior division of that vessel. It is a short, thick trunk, which passes out of the pelvis above the upper border of the Pyriformis muscle, and immediately divides into a superficial and deep branch. Within the pelvis, it gives off a few muscular branches to the Iliacus, Pyriformis, and Obturator internus, and, just previous to quitting that cavity, a nutrient artery, which enters the ilium. The superficial branch passes beneath the Gluteus maximus, and divides into numerous branches, some of which supply that muscle, whilst others perforate its tendinous origin, and supply the integument covering the posterior surface of the sacrum, anastomosing with the posterior branches of the sacral arteries. The deep branch runs between the Gluteus medius and minimus, and sub- divides into two. Of these, the superior division, continuing the original course of the vessel, passes along the upper border of the Gluteus minimus to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, anastomosing with the circumflex iliac and ascending branches of the external circumflex artery. The inferior division crosses the Gluteus minimus obliquely to the trochanter major, distributing branches to the Glutei muscles, and inosculates with the external circumflex artery. Some branches pierce the Gluteus minimus to supply the hip-joint. Surface Marking.—The position of the three main branches of the internal iliac, the sciatic, internal pudic, and gluteal, which may occasionally be the object of surgical inter- ference, is indicated on the surface in the following way : a line is to be drawn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the posterior superior angle of the great trochanter, with the limb slightly flexed and rotated inwards : the point of emergence of the gluteal artery from the upper part of the sciatic notch will correspond with the junction of the upper with the middle third of this line. A second line is to be drawn from the same point to the middle of the tuberosity of the ischium ; the junction of the lower with the middle third marks the point of emergence of the sciatic and pudic arteries from the great sciatic notch. Surgical Anatomy.—Any of these three vessels may require ligaturing for a wound or for aneurism, which is generally traumatic, and the operation may be performed by an incision, three or four inches long, in the direction of the fibres of the Gluteus maxhnus muscle, the middle of the cut corresponding to the point indicating their respective positions. External Iliac Artery (fig. 372) The external iliac artery is larger in the adult than the internal iliac, and passes obliquely downwards and outwards along the inner border of the Psoas muscle, from Pt R