ORGANS OF DIGESTION support the epithelium. The pyloric glands (fig. 530) are most numerous at the 9IO beneath the longitudinal fibres. At the jDylorns they are most abundant, and are aggregated.into a circular ring, which projects into the cavity, and forms, with the fold of mucous membrane covering its surface, the lyyloric valve. The oblique fibres are limited chiefly to the cardiac end of the stomach, where they are disposed as a thick uniform layer, covering both surfaces, some passing obliquely from left to right, others from right to left, round the cardiac end. They are continuous with the circular fibres of the oesophagus. The areolar coat consists of a loose, filamentous, areolar tissue, connecting the mucous and muscular layers. It is sometimes called the submucous coat. It supports the blood-vessels previous to their distribution to the mucous membrane : hence it is sometimes called the vascular coat. The mucous membrane is thick; its surface smooth, soft, and velvety. In the fresh state it is of a pinkish tinge at the pyloric end, and of a red or reddish-brown colour over the rest of its surface. In infancy it is of a brighter hue, the vascular redness being more marked. It is thin at the cardiac extremity, but thicker towards the pylorus. During the contracted state of the organ it is thrown into numerous Fig. 529.—The muscular coat of the stomach. plaits or rugs, which, for the most part, have a longitudinal direction, and are most marked towards the lesser end of the stomach, and along the greater cur- vature (fig. 528). These folds are entirely obhterated when the organ becomes distended. StriLcture of the Mucous Membrane.—When examined with a lens, the inner surface of the mucous membrane presents a peculiar honeycomb appearance from being covered with small shallow depressions or alveoli, of a polygonal or hexagonal form, which vary from -^^^ to of "i^h in diameter, and are separated by sUghtly elevated ridges. In the bottom of the alveoli are seen the orifices of minute tubes, the gastric follicles, which are situated perpen- dicularly side by side throughout the entire substance of the mucous membrane. The gastric follicles are of two kinds, which differ from each other in structure, and it is believed also in the nature of their secretion. They are named respectively pyloric &nd peptic glands. They are both tubular in character, and are formed of a delicate basement membrane, supporting epithelium. The basement membrane consists of flattened transparent endothelial cells, with processes which extend and