647 IXXOMIXATE, AXD THEIR TEIBUTAEIES Surgical Anatomy.—There are several points of surgical interest in connection with the axillarj' vein. Being more superficial, larger, and shghtly overlapping the axillary artery, it is more liable to be womided in the operation of extirpation of the axillary glands, especially as these glands, when diseased, are apt to become adh.erent to the vessel. "NMien wounded, there is always a danger of air being drawn into its interior, and death resulting. This is due not only to the fact that it is near the thorax and therefore hable to be in- fluenced by the respiratory movements, but also because it is adherent by its anterior sm-face to the costo-coracoid membrane, and therefore if w^ounded is likely to remain j)atulous and favoiu^ the chance of air being sucked in. This adhesion of the vein to the fascia prevents its collapsmg, and therefore favours the finious bleeding which takes place in these cases. To avoid woimding the axillary vein in the extirpation of cancerous glands h-om the axilla, no sharp cutting instruments should be used after the axillary cavity has been freely exposed, and care should be taken to use no imdue force in isolating the glands. Should the vein be so embedded in the malignant deposit that the latter cannot be removed without taking away a part of the vein, this must be done, the vessel having been first Hgatured above and below. The Subclavian Vein, the continuation of the axillary, extends from the lower border of the first rib to the inner end of the sterno-cla^icular articulation, where it unites with the internal jugular to form the innominate vein. It is in relation, in front, with the clavicle and Subclavius muscle; behind, with the subclavian artery, from which it is separated internally by the Scalenus anticus muscle and phrenic nerve. Below, it rests in a depression on the first rib and up»on the x^leura. Above, it is covered by the cervical fascia and integument. The subclavian vein occasionally rises in the neck to a level with the third part of the subclavian artery, and in two instances has been seen passing with this vessel behind the Scalenus anticus. This vessel is usually provided with valves about an inch from its termination in the innominate, just external to the entrance of the external jugular vein. Tributaries.—It receives the external and anterior jugular veins and a small branch from the cephalic, outside the Scalenus ; and on the inner side of that muscle, the internal jugular vein. At the angle of junction with the internal jugular, the left subclavian vein receives the thoracic duct; while the right sub- clavian vein receives the right lymphatic duct. The Innominate or Brachio-cephalic Veins (fig. 388) are tw-o large trunks, placed one on each side of the root of the neck, and formed by the union of the internal jugular and subclavian veins of the corresponding side. The Right Innominate Vein is a short vessel, an inch in length, w^hich com- mences at the inner end of the clavicle, and, passing almost vertically downwards, joins with the left innominate vein just below the cartilage of the first rib, close to the right border of the sternum, to form the superior vena cava. It lies superficial and external to the innominate artery ; on its right side the plem-a is interposed between it and the apex of the lung. This vein, at the angle of junction of the internal jugular with the subclavian, receives the right vertebral vein ; and, lower down, the right internal mammary, right inferior thyroid, and sometimes the right superior intercostal veins. The Left Innominate Vein, about two and a half inches in length, and larger than the right, passes from left to right across the upper and front part of the chest, at the same time inclining downwards, to unite with its fellow of the opposite side, forming the superior vena cava. It is in relation, in front, with the first piece of the sternum, from which it is separated by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno- thyroid muscles, the thymus gland or its remains, and some loose areolar tissue. Behind, it lies across the roots of the three large arteries arising from the arch of the aorta. This vessel is joined by the left vertebral, left internal mammary, left inferior thyroid, and the left superior intercostal veins, and occasionally some thymic and pericardiac veins. There are no valves in the innominate veins. Peculiarities.—Sometimes the innominate veins open separately into the right amicle ; in such cases the right vein takes the ordinary com'se of the superior vena cava; but the left vein, after commmiicating by a small branch with the right one. passes in fi'ont of the root of the left lung, and. turning to the back of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, and terminates in the back of the right aui'icle. This occasional condition of the veins in the