317 ACROMIO-CLAVICULAR JOINT head of the Sterno-mastoid, assisted to a certain extent by the two Rhomboids, which pull the inferior angle of the Scapula backwards and upwards and so raise the clavicle. The depression of the clavicle is principally effected by gravity, assisted by the Subclavius, Pectoralis minor, and lower fibres of the Trapezius. It is drawn hachivards by the Rhomboids and the middle and lower fibres of the Trapezius, and/orwarr/s by the Serratus magnus and Pectoralis minor. Surface Form.—The position of the sterno-clavicular joint may be easily ascertained by feeling the enlarged sternal end of the collar-bone just external to the long, cord-like, sternal origin of the Sterno-mastoid muscle. If this muscle is relaxed by bending the head forwards, a depression just internal to the end of the clavicle, and between it and the sternum, can be felt, indicating the exact position of the joint, which is subcutaneous. When the arm hangs by the side, the cavity of the joint is V-shaped. If the arm is raised, the bones become more closely approximated, and the cavity becomes a mere slit. Surgical Anatomy.—The strength of this joint mainly depends upon its ligaments, and it is to ithis, and to the fact that the force of the blow is generally transmitted along the long axis of the clavicle, that dislocation rarely occurs, and that the bone is generally broken rather than displaced. When dislocation does occur, the course which the dis- placed bone takes depends more upon the direction in which the violence is applied than upon the anatomical construction of the joint; it may be either forwards, backwards, or upwards. The chief point worthy of note, as regards the construction of the joint, in regard to dislocations, is the fact that, owing to the shape of the articular surfaces being so little adapted to each other, and that the strength of the joint mainly depends upon the ligaments, the displacement when reduced is very liable to recur, and hence it is extremely difficult to keep the end of the bone in its proper place. The Acromio-clavicular is an arthrodial joint, formed between the outer extremity of the clavicle and the upper edge of the acromion process of the scapula. Its ligaments are the The Superior Acromio-clavicular Ligament is a broad band, of a quadrilateral form, which covers the superior part of the articulation, extending between the upper part of the outer end of the clavicle and the adjoining part of the upper surface of the acromion. It is composed of parallel fibres, which interlace with the aponeurosis of the Trapezius and Deltoid muscles ; below, it is in contact with the interarticular fibro-cartilage (when it exists) and the synovial membranes. The Inferior Acromio-clavicular Ligament, somewhat thinner than the pre- ceding, covers the under part of the articulation, and is attached to the adjoining surfaces of the two bones. It is in relation, above, with the synovial membranes, and in rare cases with the interarticular fibro-cartilage ; below, with the tendon of the Supraspinatus. These two ligaments are continuous with each other in front and behind, and form a complete capsule round the joint. The Interarticular Fibro-cartilage is frequently absent in this articulation. When it exists, it generally only partially separates the articular surfaces, and occupies the upper part of the articulation. More rarely, it completely separates the joint into two cavities. The Synovial Membrane.—There is usually only one synovial membrane in this articulation, but when a complete interarticular fibro-cartilage exists, there are two synovial membranes. The Coraco-clavicular Ligament serves to connect the clavicle with the coracoid process of the scapula. It does not properly belong to this articulation, but as it forms a most efficient means in retaining the clavicle in contact with the acromial process, it is usually described with it. It consists of two fasciculi, called the trapezoid and conoid ligaments. The Trapezoid Ligament, the anterior and external fasciculus, is broad, thin, and quadrilateral : it is placed obliquely between the coracoid process and the II. ACKOMIO-CLAVICULAE AeTICULATION (fig. 243) Superior Acromio-clavicular. Inferior Acromio-clavicular. Interarticular Fibro-cartilage. Trapezoid and Conoid.