THE UTEEUS 1035 that tube by the recto-vaginal fold of peritoneum, which forms a cul-de-sac between the vagina and rectum. Its sides give attachment superiorly to the broad ligaments, and inferiorly to the Levatores ani muscles and recto-vesical fascia. Structure.—The vagina consists of an internal mucous lining, of a muscular coat, and between the two of a layer of erectile tissue. The mucous memhrane * is continuous above with that lining the uterus. Its inner surface presents, along the anterior and posterior walls, a longitudinal ridge or raphe, called the columns of the vagina, and numerous transverse ridges or rugse, extending outwards from the raphe on either side. These rugae are divided by furrows of variable depth, giving to the mucous membrane the appearance of being studded over with conical projections or papillae ; they are most numerous near the orifice of the vagina, especially in females before parturition. The epithelium covering the mucous membrane is of the squamous variety. The submucous tissue is very loose, and contains numerous large veins, which by their anastomoses form a plexus, together with smooth muscular fibres derived from the muscular coat; it is regarded by Gussenbauer as an erectile tissue. It contains a number of mucous crypts, but no true glands. The muscular coat consists of two layers : an external longitudinal, which is far the stronger, and an internal circular layer. The longitudinal fibres are continuous with the superficial muscular fibres of the uterus. The strongest fasciculi are those attached to the recto-vesical fascia on each side. The two layers are not distinctly separable from each other, but are connected by oblique decus- sating fasciculi, which pass from the one layer to the other. In addition to this, the vagina at its lower end is surrounded by a band of striped muscular fibres, the sphincter vagince (see page 442). External to the muscular coat is a layer of connective tissue, containing a large plexus of blood-vessels. The erectile tissue consists of a layer of loose connective tissue, situated between the mucous membrane and the muscular coat; embedded in it is a plexus of large veins, and numerous bundles of unstriped muscular fibres, derived from the circular muscular layer. The arrangement of the veins is similar to that found in other erectile tissues. The Uterus The Uterus is the organ of gestation, receiving the fecundated ovum in its cavity, retaining and supporting it during the development of the foetus, and becoming the principal agent in its expulsion at the time of parturition. In the virgin state it is pear-sha,ped, flattened from before backwards, and situated in the cavity of the pelvis, between the bladder and the rectum ; it is retained in its position by the round and broad ligaments on each side, and projects into the upper end of the vagina below. Its upper end, or base, is directed upwards and forwards ; its lower end, or apex, downwards and backwards, in the line of the axis of the inlet of the pelvis. It therefore forms an angle with the vagina, since the direction of the vagina corresponds to the axis of the cavity and outlet of the pelvis. The uterus measures about three inches in length, two in breadth at its upper part, and nearly an inch in thickness, and it weighs from an ounce to an ounce and a half. It consists of two parts : (i) the body, with its upper broad extremity, the f undus ; and (2) the cervix, or neck, which is partly above the vagina, and partly in the vagina. The fundus is placed on a line below the level of the brim of the pelvis, being directed forwards behind the upper portion of the anterior pelvic wall. The division between the body and cervix is indicated externally by a slight con- striction, and by the reflection of the peritoneum from the anterior surface of the uterus on to the bladder, and internally by a narrowing of the canal, called the internal os. The body gradually narrows from the fundus to the neck. Its anterior surface is flattened, covered by peritoneum in the upper three-fourths of its extent, and separated * See foot-note page 1032.