ARTICULATIONS 326 condyle and the olecranon ; a filament from the mnscnlo-cutaneous (Riidinger), and two from the median (Macalister). Actions.—The elbow-joint comprises three different portions : viz. the joint be- tween the ulna and humerus, that between the head of the radius and the humerus, and the superior radio-ulnar articulation, described below. All these articular sur- faces are invested by a common synovial meinbrane, and the movements of the whole joint should be studied together. The com- bination of the movements of flexion and extension of the forearm with those of pro- nation and supination of the hand, which is ensured by the two being performed at the same joint, is essential to the accuracy of the various minute movements of the hand. The portion of the joint between the ulna and humerus is a simple hinge-joint, and allows of movements of flexion and extension only. Owing to the obliquity of the trochlear surface of the humerus, this movement does not take place in a straight line ; so that Avhen the forearm is extended and supinated, the axis of the arm and forearm is not in the same line, but the one portion of the limb forms an angle with the others, and the hand, with the forearm, is directed out- wards. During flexion, on the other hand, the forearm and the hand tend to approach the middle line of the body, and thus enable the hand to be easily carried to the face. The shape of the articular surface of the humerus, with its prominences and depressions accurately adapted to the opposing surfaces of the olecranon, prevents any lateral movement. Flexion is produced by the action of the Biceps and Brachialis anticus, assisted by the muscles arising from the internal condyle of the humerus and the Supinator longus ; extension, by the Triceps and Anconeus, assisted by the extensors of the wrist and by the Extensor communis digitorum and Extensor minimi digiti. The joint between the head of the radius and the capitellum or radial head of the humerus is an arthrodial joint. The bony surfaces would of themselves con- stitute an enarthrosis and allow of movement in all directions, were it not for the orbicular ligament by which the head of the radius is bound down firmly to the sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and which prevents any separation of the two bones laterally. It is to the same Hgament that the head of the radius owes its security from dislocation, which would otherwise constantly occur, as a consequence of the shallowness of the cup-like surface on the head of the radius. In fact, but for this ligament, the tendon of the biceps would be liable to pull the head of the radius out of the joint.* In complete extension, the head of the radius glides so far back on the outer condyle that its edge is plainly felt at the back of the articulation. Flexion and extension of the elbow-joint are limited by the tension of the structures on the front and back of the joint ; the limitation of flexion being also aided by the soft structures of the arm and forearm coming in contact. In combination with any position of flexion or extension, the head of the radius can be rotated in the upper radio-ulnar joint, carrying the hand with it. The hand is articulated to the lower surface of the radius only, and the concave or sigmoid surface on the lower end of the radius travels round the lower end of * Humphry, oiJ. cit. p. 419. Fig. 247.—Sagittal section of the right elbow-joint, taken somewhat obliquely and seen from the radial aspect. (After Branne.)