AETEEIES 520 branches. In the Hmbs, the anastomoses are most frequent and of largest size around the joints; the branches of an artery above freely inosculating with branches from the vessels below; these anastomoses are of considerable interest to the surgeon, as it is by their enlargement that a collateral circulation is established after the application of a ligature to an artery for the cure of aneurism. The smaller branches of arteries anastomose more frequently than the larger ; and between the smallest twigs these inosculations become so numerous as to constitute a close network that pervades nearly every tissue of the body. Throughout the body generally, the larger arterial branches pursue a perfectly straight course; but in certain situations they are tortuous ; thus, the facial artery in its course over the face, and the arteries of the lips, are extremely tortuous in their course, to accommodate themselves to the movements of the parts. The uterine arteries are also tortuous, to accommodate themselves to the increase of size which the organ undergoes during pregnancy. Again, the internal carotid and vertebral arteries, previous to their entering the cavity of the skull, describe a series of curves, which are evidently intended to diminish the velocity of the current of blood, by increasing the extent of surface over which it moves, and adding to the amount of impediment which is produced by friction. The arteries are dense in structure, of considerable strength, highly elastic, and, when divided, they preserve, although empty, their cylindrical form. The minute structure of these vessels has been described in the chapter on General Anatomy. In the description of the arteries, we shall first consider the efferent trunk of the pulmonic circulation, the pulmonary artery ; and then the efferent trunk of the systemic circulation, the aorta, and its branches. PULMONAEY AkTERY (fig. 344) The pulmonary artery conveys the venous blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. It is a short, wide vessel, about two inches in length, arising from the left side of the base of the right ventricle, in front of the aorta. It passes obliquely upwards and backwards, passing at first in front of and then to the left of the ascending part of the arch of the aorta, as far as the under surface of the transverse portion of the arch, where it divides into two branches of nearly equal size, the right and left pulmonary arteries. Relations.—The whole of this vessel is contained, together with the ascending part of the arch of the aorta, in the pericardium, being enclosed with it in a tube of serous membrane, continued upwards from the base of the heart, and has attached to it, above, the fibrous layer of the membrane. Behind, it rests at first upon the ascending aorta, and higher up lies in front of the left auricle. On each side of its origin is the appendix of the corresponding auricle and a coronary artery ; and higher up it passes to the left side of the ascending aorta. The right pulmonary artery, longer and larger than the left, pierces the peri- cardium and runs horizontally outwards, behind the ascending aorta and superior vena cava, to the root of the right lung, where it divides into two branches, of which the lower, which is the smaller, supplies the lower lobe; the upper supplies the upper lobe, giving a branch to the middle lobe. The left pulmonary artery, shorter and somewhat smaller than the right, pierces the pericardium and passes horizontally in front of the descending aorta and left bronchus to the root of the left lung, where it divides into two branches for the two lobes. The root of the left pulmonary artery is connected to the under surface of the arch of the aorta by a short fibrous cord, the remains of a vessel peculiar to foetal life, the ductus arteriosus. The terminal branches of the pulmonary artery will be described with the anatomy of the lung.