736 NERVOUS SYSTEM enter the nares, are divisible into three groups : an inner group, larger than those on the outer wall, spread out over the upper third of the septum ; a middle set, confined to the roof of the nose ; and an outer set, which are distributed over the superior and middle turbinated bones, and the surface of the ethmoid in front of them. As the filaments descend, they unite in a plexiform network, and are believed by most observers to terminate in the cells of SchuUze. The olfactory differs in structure from other nerves, in being composed exclusively of non-medullated fibres. They are deficient in the white substance of Schwann, and consist of axis-cylinders, with a distinct nucleated sheath, in which there are, however, fewer nuclei than in ordinaTy non-medullated fibres. Surgical Anatomy.—In severe injuries to the head, the olfactory bulb may become separated from the olfactorv nerves, thus producing loss of the sense of smelling {anosmia), and with this a considerable loss in the sense of taste, as much of the perfection of the sense of taste is due to the sapid substances being also odorous, and simultaneously excitmg the sense of smell. Second Nebve (fig. 438) Fig. 438. -The left optic nerve and optic tracts. The Second or Optic Nerve, the special nerve of the sense of sight, is distributed exclusively to the eyeball. The nerves of opposite sides are connected together at the commissure, and from the back of the commissure they may be traced to the brain, under the name of the optic tracts. The optic tract, at its connection with the brain, is divided into two bands. One of these arises from the stratum opticum of the corpora quadrigemina, and emerges from the nates of this body as the anterior brachium, and passes obliquely outwards between the inner and outer geniculate bodies ; the second arises from the optic thalamus, and passes through the inner geniculate body, from which it derives fibres, and joins with the other band to form the optic tract. From this origin the tract winds obliquely across the under surface of the crus cerebri, in the form of a flattened band, destitute of neurilemma, and is attached to the crus by its anterior margin. It then assumes a cylindrical form, and, as it passes forwards, is connected with the tuber cinereum and lamina cinerea, from both of which it receives fibres. It finally joins with the tract of the opposite side to form the optic commissure. The commissure or chiasma, somewhat quadri- lateral in form, rest upon the optic groove of the sphenoid bone, being bounded, above, by the lamina cinerea; behind, by the tuber cinereum ; on either side, by the anterior perforated space. Within the commissure, the optic nerves of the two sides under- go a partial decussation. The fibres which form the inner margin of each tract are continued across from one to the other side of the brain, and have no connection with the optic nerves. These may be regarded as commissural fibres [intercerehral) between the thalami of opposite sides. Some fibres are continued across the anterior border of the chiasma, and connect the optic nerves of the two sides, having no relation with the optic Fia. 439.—Course of the fibres in the optic commissure.