213 CLAVICLE increase the size of the articular facet ; the upper border gives attachment to the interarticular fibro-cartilage, and the lower border is continuous with the costal facet on the inner end of the inferior or subclavian surface, which articulates with the cartilage of the first rib. The outer or acromial extremity, directed outwards and forwards, presents a small, flattened, oval facet, which looks obliquely downwards, for articulation with the acromion process of the scapula. The circumference of the articular facet is rough, especially above, for the attachment of the acromio-clavicular ligaments. Peculiarities of tlie Bone in the Sexes and in Individuals.—In the female, the clavicle is generally shorter, thinner, less curved, and smoother than in the male. In those persons who perform considerable manual labour, which brings into con- stant action the muscles connected with this bone, it becomes thicker and more curved, its ridges for muscular attachment become prominently marked, and its sternal end of a prismatic form. The right clavicle is generally longer, thicker, and rougher than the left. Structure.—The shaft, as well as the extremities, consists of cancellous tissue, invested in a compact layer much thicker in the middle than at either end. The clavicle is highly elastic, by reason of its curves. From the experiments of Mr. Ward, it has been shown that it possesses sufficient longitudinal elastic force to project its own weight nearly two feet on a level surface, when a smart blow is struck on it; and sufficient transverse elastic force, opposite the centre of its anterior convexity, to throw its own weight about a foot. This extent of elastic power must serve to moderate very considerably the effect of concussions received upon the point of the shoulder. Development.—By two centres : one for the shaft, and one for the sternal extremity. The centre for the shaft appears very early, before any other bone ; according to Beclard, as early as the thirtieth day. The centre for the sternal end makes its appearance about the eighteenth or twentieth year, and unites with the rest of the bone about the twenty-fifth year. Articulations.—With the sternum, scapula, and cartilage of the first rib. Attachment of Muscles.—To six : the Sterno-cleido-mastoid, Trapezius, Pecto- ralis major, Deltoid, Subclavius, and Sterno-hyoid. Surface Form.—The clavicle can be felt throughout its entire length, even m persons who are very fat. Conimencmg at the inner end, the enlarged sternal extremity, where the bone projects above the upper margin of the sternum, can be felt, forming with the sternum and the rounded tendon of the Sterno-mastoid a V-shaped notch, the presternal notch. Passing outwards, the shaft of the bone can be felt immediately under the skin, with its convexity forwards in the inner two-thirds, the surface partially obscured above and below by the attachments of the Sterno-mastoid and Pectoralis major muscles. ^ In the outer third it forms a gentle curve backwards, and terminates at the outer end in a somewhat enlarged extremity which articulates with the acromial process of the scapula. The direction of the clavicle is almost, if not quite, horizontal when the arm is lying quietly by the side, though in well-developed subjects it may incline a little upwards at its outer end. Its direction is, however, very changeable with the varying movements of the shoulder-joint. Surgical Anatomy.—The clavicle is the most frequently broken of any single bone in the body. This is due to the fact that it is much exposed to violence, and is the only bony connection between the upper limb and the trunk. The bone, moreover, is slender, and is very superficial. The bone may be broken by direct or indirect violence, or by muscular action. The most common cause is, however, from indirect violence, and the bone then gives way at the junction of the outer with the inner two-thirds of the bone ; that is to say, at the junction of the two curves, for this is the weakest part of the bone. The fi'acture is generally oblique, and the displacement of the fragments is inwards, away from the surface of the body, hence compound fracture of the clavicle is of rare occurrence. Beneath the bone the main vessels of the upper limb and the great nerve-cords of the brachial plexus lie on the first rib and are liable to be wounded in fracture, especially in fracture fi-om direct violence, when the force of the blow drives the broken ends inwards. Fortunately the subclavius muscle is interposed between these structures and the clavicle, and this often protects them from injury. The clavicle is not uncommonly the seat of sarcomatous tumours, rendering the opera- tion of excision of the entire bone necessary. This is an operation of considerable difficulty and danger. It is best performed by exposing the bone freely, disarticulating at the