SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER 639 The Median Cerebral Veins return the blood from the convolutions of the mesial surface of the corresponding hemisphere ; they open into the superior cerebral veins ; or occasionally into the inferior longitudinal sinus. The Inferior Cerebral Veins ramify on the lower part of the outer and on the under surface of the cerebral hemisphere. Some, collecting tributaries from the under surface of the anterior lobes of the brain, terminate in the cavernous sinus. One vein of large size, the middle cerebral vein, commences on the under surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and, running along the fissure of Sylvius, opens into the cavernous sinus. Another large vein, the great anastomotic vein of Trolard, commences on the parietal lobe, runs along the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and opens into the anterior part of the cavernous sinus under the lesser wing of the sphenoid. Others commence on the under surface of the base of the brain, and unite to form from three to five veins, which open into the superior petrosal and lateral sinuses from before backwards. The Deep Cerebral, or Ventricular Veins (vence Galeni), are two in number. They are formed by the union of two veins, the vena corporis striati, and the choroid vein, on either side. They run backwards, parallel with one another, between the layers of the velum interpositum, and pass out of the brain at the great transverse fissure, between the posterior extremity, or sijleniuni, of the corpus callosum and the tubercula quadrigemina, to enter the straight sinus. The two veins usually unite to form one before opening into the straight sinus. The vena corporis striati commences in the groove between the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus, receives numerous veins from both of these parts, and unites behind the anterior pillar of the fornix with the choroid vein, to form one of the venffi Galeni. The choroid vein runs along the whole length of the outer border of the choroid plexus, receiving veins from the hippocampus major, the fornix and corpus callosum, and unites, at the anterior extremity of the choroid plexus, with the vein of the corpus sti'iatum. The Cerebellar Veins occupy the surface of the cerebellum, and are disposed in three sets, superior, inferior, and lateral. The superior pass forwards and inwards, across the superior vermiform process, and terminate in the straight sinus ; some open into the vena9 Galeni. The infei-ior cerebellar veins, of large size, run transversely outwards, and terminate by two or three trunks in the lateral sinuses. The lateral anterior cerebellar veins terminate in the superior petrosal sinuses. The perivascular lymph-sheaths alluded to above (see page 55) are especially found in connection with the vessels of the brain. These vessels are enclosed in a sheath, which acts as a lymphatic channel, through which the lymph is carried to the subarachnoid and subdural spaces, from which it is returned into the general circulation. Sinuses of the Dura Matek The sinuses of the dura mater are venous channels, analogous to the veins, their outer coat being formed by the dura mater ; their inner, by a continuation of the lining membrane of the veins. They are fifteen in number, and are divided into two sets:—e. Those situated at the upper and back part of the skull; 2. those at the base of the skull. The former are, the Superior Longitudinal. Straight Sinus. Inferior Longitudinal. Lateral Sinuses. Occipital Sinus. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus occupies the attached margin of the falx cerebri. Commencing at the foramen caecum, through which it constantly com- municates by a small branch with the veins of the nasal fossae, it runs from before backwards, grooving the inner surface of the frontal, the adjacent margins of the two parietal, and the superior division of the crucial ridge of the occipital bone, and terminates by opening into the torcular Herophili. The sinus is triangular in form, narrow in front, and gradually increasing in size as it passes backwards.