330 ARTICULATIONS which separates the styloid process of the nhia from the head of that bone ; and by its base, which is thin, to the prominent edge of the radius, which separates the sigmoid cavity from the carpal articulating surface. Its margins are united to the ligaments of the wrist-joint. Its tipper surface, smooth and concave, articulates with the head of the ulna, forming an arthrodial joint; its under surface, also concave and smooth, forms part of the wrist-joint and articulates with the cuneiform bone. Both surfaces are lined by a synovial membrane : the upper surface, by one peculiar to the radio-ulnar articulation ; the under surface, by the synovial membrane of the wrist. The Synovial Membrane (fig. 251) of this articulation has been called, from its extreme looseness, the memhrana sacciformis ; it extends horizontally inwards between the head of the ulna and the interarticular fibro-cartilage, and upwards between the radius and the ulna, forming here a very loose cul-de-sac. The quantity of synovia which it contains is usually considerable. Actions.—The movement in the inferior radio-ulnar articulation is just the reverse of that between the two bones above. It consists of a movement of Fig. 249.—Ligaments of wrist and hand. Posterior view. rotation of the lower end of the radius round an axis which corresponds to the centre of the head of the ulna. When the radius rotates forwards, pronation of the forearm and hand is the result; and when backwards, supination. It will thus be seen that in pronation and supination of the forearm and hand the radius describes a segment of a cone, the axis of which extends from the centre of the head of the radius to the middle of the head of the ulna. In this movement, however, the ulna is not quite stationary, but rotates a little in the opposite direction. So that it also describes the segment of a cone, though of smaller size than that described by the radius. The movement which causes this alteration in the position of the head of the ulna takes place principally at the shoulder-joint by a rotation of the humerus, but possibly also to a slight extent at the elbow-joint.* Surface Form.—The position of the inferior radio-nlnar joint may be ascertained by feeling for a slight groove at the back of the wrist, between the prominent head of the ulna and the lower end of the radius, when the forearm is in a state of almost complete pronation. * See Journ. of Anat. and Phys., vol. xix. parts ii., iii., and iv.