THE SKELETON 254 of the sacrum and sacro-vertebral angle. The inlet of the pelvis is somewhat heart- shaped, obtusely pointed in front, diverging on either side, and encroached upon behind by the projection forwards of the promontory of the sacrum. It has three principal diameters : antero-posterior (sacro-pubic), transverse, and oblique. The antero-posterior extends from the sacro-vertebral angle to the symphysis pubis; its average measurement is four inches in the male, four and three-quarters in the female. The transverse extends across the greatest width of the inlet, from the middle of the brim on one side to the same point on the opposite ; its average measurement is four and a half in the male, five and a quarter in the female. The oblique extends from the margin of the pelvis, corresponding to the ilio-pectineal eminence on one side, to the sacro-iliac symphysis on the opposite side; its average measurement is four and a quarter in the male, and five in the female. The cavity of the true pelvis is bounded in front by the symphysis pubis ; behind, by the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx, which, curving forwards above and below, contracts the inlet and outlet of the canal; and laterally it is bounded by a broad, smooth, quadrangular surface of bone, corresponding to the inner surface of the body of the ischium and that part of the ilium which is below the ilio-pectineal line. The cavity is shallow in front, measuring at the symphysis an inch and a half in depth, three inches and a half in the middle, and four inches and a half posteriorly. From this description, it will be seen that the cavity of the pelvis is a short, curved canal, considerably deeper on its posterior than on its anterior wall, and broader in the middle than at either extremity, from the projection forwards of the sacro-coccygeal colamn above and below. This cavity contains, in the recent subject, the rectum, bladder, and part of the organs of generation. The rectum is placed at the back of the pelvis, and corresponds to the curve of the sacro-coccygeal column ; the bladder in front, behind the symphysis pubis. In the female, the uterus and vagina occupy the interval between these parts. The lower circumference of the pelvis is very irregular, and forms what is called the outlet. It is bounded by three prominent eminences : one posterior, formed by the point of the coccyx ; and one on each side, the tuberosities of the ischia. These eminences are separated by three notches : one in front, iheimhic arch, formed by the convergence of the rami of the ischia and pubic bones on each side. The other notches, one on each side, are formed by the sacrum and coccyx behind, the ischium in front, and the ilium above : they are called the sacro-sciatic notches ; in the natural state they are converted into foramina by the lesser and greater sacro-sciatic ligaments. In the recent state, when the ligaments are in situ, the outlet of the pelvis is lozenge-shaped, bounded, in front, by the subpubic ligament and the rami of the os pubis and ischium ; on each side, by the tuberosities of the ischia ; and behind, by the great sacro-sciatic ligaments and the tip of the coccyx. The diameters of the outlet of the pelvis are two, antero-posterior and trans- verse. The antero-posterior extends from the tip of the coccyx to the lower part of the symphysis pubis; its average measurement is three and a quarter inches in the male and five in the female. The antero-posterior diameter varies with the length of the coccyx, and is capable of increase or diminution, on account of the mobility of that bone.* The transverse extends from the posterior part of one ischiatic tuberosity to the same point on the opposite side : the average measure- ment is three and a half inches in the male and four and three-quarters in the female. Position of the Pelvis.—In the erect posture, the pelvis is placed obliquely * The measurements of the pelvis given above are, I believe, fairly accurate, but different measurements are given by various authors, no doubt due in a great measure to differences m the physique and stature of the population from whom the measurements have been taken. The accompanying chart has been formulated to show the measure- ments of the pelvis, which are adopted by many obstetricians.—Ed. A.P. Obi. Tr. Inlet . 4 4| 5 Cavity 4^ 4^ 4|- Outlet 5 4|- 4