ARTERIES 6o8 occasionally take the place of the middle haemorrhoidal artery; branches to the base and neck of the bladder, vesicnlae seminales, gland. External to the pelvis, it gives off the following branches :— Coccygeal. Comes Nervi Ischiadici. Inferior Gluteal. Muscular. Articular. and vesical and prostate Fig. 375. -The arteries of the gluteal and posterior femoral re<]fions. The coccygeal branch runs inwards, pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and supplies the Gluteus maximus, the integument, and other structures on the back of the coccyx. The inferior gluteal branches, three or four in number, supply the Gluteus maximus muscle, anasto- mosing with the gluteal artery in the substance of the muscle. The comes nervi ischi- adici is a long, slender vessel, which accompanies the great sciatic nerve for a short distance ; it then penetrates it, and runs in its substance to the lower part of the thigh. The muscular branches supply the muscles on the back part of the hip, ana- stomosing with the gluteal, external branch of the obturator, internal and ex- ternal circumflex, and su- perior perforating arteries. Some articular branches are distributed to the cap- sule of the hip-joint. The Ilio-lumbar Artery, given off from the posterior trunk of the internal iliac, turns upwards and outwards between the obturator nerve and lumbo-sacral cord, to the inner margin of the Psoas muscle, behind which it divides into a lumbar and an iliac branch. The lumbar branch supplies the Psoas and Quadratus lumborum muscles, anastomosing with the last lumbar artery, and sends a small spinal branch through the intervertebral foramen, between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, into the spinal canal, to supply the spinal cord and its membranes. The iliac branch descends to supply the Iliacus muscle ; some offsets, running between the muscle and the bone, anastomose with the iliac branch of the Termination of internal circurnfiex Superior 2^ erf or citing Middle 2)erfcrating l7iferior 'perforatbig Tei mination of profunda Supeiior miLSCular Superior inter articular external articular Inferior mnscu ko