225 HUMERUS articular surface, and from this point extends inwards, so as to form the chief part of the articular end of the bone, the centre for the inner part of the articular surface not appearing until about the age of twelve. Ossification commences in the internal condyle about the fifth year, and in the external one not until about the thirteenth or fourteenth year. About sixteen or seventeen years, the outer condyle and both portions of the articulating surface (having already joined) unite with the shaft ; at eighteen years the inner condyle becomes joined, whilst the upper epiphysis, although the first formed, is not united until about the tAventieth year. Articulations.—With the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and with the ulna and radius. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty-four: to the greater tuberosity, the Supraspinatus, Infraspinatus, and Teres minor; to the lesser tuberosity, the Subscapularis ; to the anterior bicipital ridge, the Pectoralis major ; to the posterior bicipital ridge, the Teres major; to the bicipital groove, the Latissimus dorsi ; to the shaft, the Deltoid, Coraco-brachialis, Brachialis anticus, external and internal heads of the Triceps ; to the internal condyle, the Pronator radii teres, and common tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis, Palmaris longus. Flexor sublimis digitorum, and Flexor carpi ulnaris; to the external condyloid ridge, the Supinator longus, and Extensor carpi radialis longior; to the external condyle, the common tendon of the Extensor carpi radialis brevior, Extensor communis digitorum. Extensor minimi digiti, Extensor carpi ulnaris, and Supinator brevis ; to the back of the external condyle, the Anconeus. Surface Form.—The humerus is almost entirely clothed by the muscles which surround it, and the only parts of this bone which are strictly subcutaneous are small portions of the internal and external condyles. In addition to these, the tuberosities and a part of the head of the bone can be felt under the skin and muscles by which they are covered. Of these the greater tuberosity forms the most prominent bony point of the shoulder, extending beyond the acromion process and covered by the Deltoid muscle. It influences materially the surface form of the shoulder. It is best felt while the arm is lying loosely by the side ; if the arm be raised, it recedes from under the finger. The lesser tuberosity, directed forwards and inwards, is to be felt to the inner side of the greater tuberosity, just below the acromio-clavicular joint. Between the two tuberosities lies the bicipital groove. This can be defined by placing the finger, and making firm pressure, just internal to the greater tuberosit^^; then, by rotating the humerus, the groove will be felt to pass under the finger as the bone is rotated. "With the arm abducted from the side, by pressing deeply in the axilla, the lower part of the head of the bone is to be felt. On each side of the elbow-jomt, and just above it, the internal and external condyles of the bone are to be felt. Of these the internal is the more prominent, but the ridge passing upwards from it, the internal condyloid ridge, is much less marked than the external, and, as a rule, is not to be felt. Occasionally, however, we find along this border the hook-shaped process mentioned above. The external condyle is most plainly to be seen during semiflexion of the forearm, and its position is indicated by a depression between the attachment of the adjacent muscles. From it is to be felt a strong bony ridge running up the outer border of the shaft of the bone. This is the external condyloid ridge ; it is concave forwards, and corresponds with the curved direction of the lower extremity of the humerus. Surgical Anatomy.—There are several points of surgical interest connected with the humerus. Fhst, as regards its development. The upper end, though the first to ossify, is the last to join the shaft, and the length of the bone is mainly due to growth from this upper epiphysis. Hence, in cases of amputation of the arm in young subjects, the humerus contmues to grow considerably, and the end of the bone which immediately after the operation was covered with a thick cushion of soft tissue begins to project, thinning the soft parts and rendering the stump conical. This may necessitate the removal of a couple of mches or so of the bone, and even after this operation a recurrence of the conical stump ma>' take place. There are several points of surgical interest m connection with fractures. First, as regard their causation; the bone may be broken by direct or indirect violence like the other long bones, but, in addition to this, it is probably more frequently fractured by muscular action than any other of this class of bone in the body. It is usually the shaft, just below the insertion of the deltoid, which is thus broken. I have seen the accident happen from throwing a stone, and in an apparently healthy adult from cutting a piece of hard ' cake tobacco ' on a table. In this latter case there was no disease of the bone that could be discovered. Fractm'es of the upper end may take place through the anatomical neck, through the surgical neck, or separation of the gi'eater tuberosity may occur. Fracture of the anatomical neck is a very rare accident; in fact, it is doubted by some Q