HEART—RIGHT AURICLE 953 cavity of the chest, extending from the median line about three inches in the former direction, and only one and a half in the latter. The anterior surface of the heart is round and convex, directed upwards and forwards, and formed chiefly by the right ventricle and part of the left. Its posterior surface is flat- tened, and rests upon the Diaphragm, and is formed chiefly by the left ventricle. The right border is long, thin, and sharp ; the left border short, but thick and round. Size.— The heart, in the adult, measures five inches in length, three inches and a half in breadth in the broadest part, and two inches and a half in thickness. The prevalent weight, in the male, varies from ten to twelve ounces ; in the female, from eight to ten : its proportions to the body being as i to 169 in males ; i to 149 in females. The heart continues increasing in weight, and also in length, breadth, and thickness, up to an advanced period of life : this increase is more marked in men than in women. Component Parts.—The heart is subdivided by a longitudinal muscular septum into two lateral halves, which are named respectively, from their position, right and left; and a transverse constriction subdivides each half of the organ into two cavities, the upper cavity on each side being called the auricle, the lower the ventricle. The right is the venous side of the heart, receiving into its auricle the dark venous blood from the entire body, by the superior and inferior vena cava, and coronary sinus. From the right auricle the blood passes into the right ventricle, and from the right ventricle, through the pulmonary artery, into the lungs. The blood, arterialised by its passage through the lungs, is returned to the left side of the heart by the pulmonary veins, which open into the left auricle; from the left auricle the blood passes into the left ventricle, and from the left ventricle is distributed, by the aorta and its subdivisions, through the entire body. This constitutes the circulation of the blood in the adult. The division of the heart into four cavities is indicated by grooves upon its surface. The great transverse groove separating the auricles from the ventricles is called the auriculo-ventricular groove. It is deficient, in front, from being crossed by the root of the pulmonary artery. It contains the trunks of the nutrient vessels of the heart. The auricular portion occupies the base of the heart, and is subdivided into two cavities by a median septum. The two ventricles are also separated into a right and left, by two longitudinal furrow\s, the inter- ventricular grooves, which are situated one on the anterior, the other on the posterior surface; these extend from the base to the apex of the organ; the former being situated nearer to the left border of the heart, and the latter to the right. It follows, therefore, that the right ventricle forms the greater portion of the anterior surface of the heart, and the left ventricle more of its posterior surface. Each of these cavities should now be separately examined. To examine the interior of the right auricle, an incision should be made along its right border, from the entrance of the superior vena cava to that of the inferior. A second cut is to be made from the centre of this first incision to the tip of the auricular appendix and the flaps raised. The Right Auricle is a little larger than the left, its walls somewhat thinner, measuring about one line ; and its cavity is capable of containing about two ounces. It consists of two parts : a principal cavity, or sinus venosus, and an appendix auriculcE. The sinus is the large quadrangular cavity, placed between the two venae cavae ; its walls are extremely thin ; it is connected below with the right ventricle, and internally with the left auricle, being free in the rest of its extent. The appendix auriculce, so called from its fancied resemblance to a dog's ear, is a small conical muscular pouch, the margins of which present a dentated edge. It projects from the sinus forwards and to the left side, overlapping the root of the aorta.