OKGANS OF DIGESTION contains some adipose tissue, which in fat subjects accumulates in considerable quantity. Its use appears to be to j^rotect the intestines from the cold, and to facilitate their movement upon each other during their vermicular action. Between its two anterior layers is the anastomosis between the right and left gastro-epiploica arteries. The gastro-s])lenic omentum is the fold which connects the concave surface of the spleen to the cul-de-sac of the stomach, being continuous by its lower border with the great omentum. It contains the splenic vessels and vasa brevia. Fig. 526.—Diagram devised by Dr. Delepine to show the lines along which the peritoneum leaves the wall of the abdomen to invest the viscera. Eit!ht lateral Falciform ligament Left lateral ligament of liver of hver ligament of liver Vena cava inferior (Esophagus-- Right phrenic arterv - • Coronary arterv-- Hepatic arter\ - Splenic artery-_ Pancrea --- Inf. pane.-duo. arterv— Colica media- Superior mesenteric— Duodenum (.Srd isart)— Aorta--- Duodenum (•2nd p irti Right and left kidneys- Superior mesenteric— Aorsa.— Colica sinistra Colica dextra— Vasa intestini / t Sigmoid arterv--- Sup. hsemorrhoidal artery. Common iliac arterv .- Internal iliac arterv External iliac artery Epigastric artery. Bladder. Peritoneum Extra-peritoneal tissB (Diaphragmatic eni '( gastro-hepatic om^ Gastro-phrenic ligami Gastro-splenic ome" 1< oramen of Winslo Duodenum (1st part) Costo-colic ligament I Dot between two ( layers of great om Transverse meso-co' jBare surface for d' (. ing colon (The two layers of t mesentery prop Bare surface for ing colon —"Sigmoid: nieso-colo" Bare surface for c Meso-rectum Bare surface for of rectum J Left lateral false ( meiit of bladder The Mesenteries are, the mesentery proper, the meso-caecum, the ascending, transverse, and descending meso-colon, the sigmoid meso-colon, and the meso- rectum. The mesentery (/xeVoi/, eVrepov), so called from being connected to the middle of the cylinder of the small intestine, is the broad fold of peritoneum which connects the convolutions of the jejunum and ileum with the posterior wall of the abdomen. Its root, the part connected with the vertebral column, is narrow, about six inches