91 DEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE cord. They consist of oval cells, from either end of which a process eventually I springs ; one, passing centrally, grows into the embryonic cord and constitutes the posterior root of the nerve ; the other, growing peripherally, joins the fibres of the anterior root to form the spinal nerve. The anterior root is, according to the recent researches of His, a direct outgrowth of certain cells which are found in the rudimentary cord and which are named I neuroblasts. These cells, like those mentioned above, are oval, and have a prolongation directed outwards towards the surface of the cord. These processes ' pass out of the cord in bundles and penetrate the mesoblast and join with fibres : of the posterior root and from the point of union the nerve grows towards its peripheral termination. Most of the cranial nerves are developed in the same manner as the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. That is to say, the neural crest, developed from the epiblast, is continued onwards, along the dorsal surface of the cephalic portion of ; the neural tube, as far as the mid-brain. From this a series of swellings at I irregular intervals form the rudimentary ganglia, from the polar cells of which the nerve is formed and its connection with the brain established. This appears I to be the case with the third, fifth, the facial, the auditory, the glosso-pharyngeal, I and the pneumogastric and probably the fourth. With regard to the mode of origin of the sixth, the spinal accessory and the hypoglossal, our knowledge is not so exact, but they would appear to arise, like the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, from groups of oval cells (neuroblasts) in the basal laminae. The olfactory tract and bulb is a protrusion of the antero-ventral part of each cerebral hemisphere. This protrusion comes in contact with the thickened epiblast of the olfactory area (see page 94), from which neuroblastic cells, which are formed within the area, pass out and form a ganglion between the area and the olfactory bulb. From this ganglion cell-processes grow centripetally to form the nerve-roots, and centrifugally to form the olfactory nerves which ramify on the I Schneiderian membrane. j The optic nerve arises in a manner entirely different from any of the other cranial nerves, as a hollow outgrowth of the brain, which subsequently becomes solid. It will be considered in connection with the development of the eye. I The sympathetic nerves are developed as outgrowths from the gangiiated roots ! of the spinal and cranial nerves. Development of the Eye.—The nervous elements and non-vascular parts of i the eye are formed from the epiblast, and the vascular portions from the meso- blast ; but the method of development is somewhat complicated. The essential portion of the eye—i.e. the retina and the parts immediately connected with it —is an outgrowth from the rudimentary brain (primitive ocular vesicle), and this outgrowth is met by an ingrowth from the common epidermic or corneous layer of the epiblast, out of which the lens and the conjunctival and corneal epithelium ; are developed. The first appearance of the eye consists in the protrusion or evolution from I the medullary wall of the thalamencephalon, or inter-brain, of a vesicle, called the primitive ocular vesicle. This is at first an open cavity communicating by a ' hollow stalk with the general cavity of the cerebral vesicle. As development advances the hollow stalk becomes solid, and thus the optic nerve is formed, receiving, how- ever, in a way presently to be explained, mesoblastic elements for the formation I of its central artery and connective tissue. As the primitive ocular vesicle is pro- longed forwards, it meets the epidermic layer of the epiblast, which at the point of contact becomes thickened, and then forms a depression which gradually encroaches on the most prominent part of the primitive ocular vesicle, which in its turn appears to recede before it, so as to become at first depressed and then inverted in the manner indicated by the annexed figure (fig. 94, a), so that the cavity is I finally almost obliterated by the folding back of its anterior half, and the original sac converted into a cup-shaped cavity, the ocular cup, in which the involuted epiblastic layer, the rudiment of the lens, is received (fig. 94, b). This cup-