SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF FEMOEAL HEENIA The dissection of the parts comprised in tlie anatomy of femoral hernia should be performed, if possible, upon a female subject free from fat. The subject should lie upon its back ; a block is first placed under the pelvis, the thigh everted, and the knee slightly bent, and retained in this position. An incision should then be made from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium along Poupart's ligament to the symphysis pubis ; a second incision should be carried transversely across the thigh about six inches beneath the preceding; and these are to be connected together by a vertical one carried along the inner side of the thigh. These several incisions should divide merely the integument ; this is to be reflected outwards, when the superficial fascia will be exposed. The superficial fascia forms a continuous layer over the whole of the thigh, consisting of areolar tissue, containing in its meshes much fat, and capable of being separated into two or more layers, between which are found the superficial vessels and nerves. It varies in thickness in different parts of the limb. In the groin it is thick, and the two layers are separated from one another by the super- ficial inguinal lymphatic glands, the internal saphenous vein, and several smaller vessels. One of these layers, the superficial, is continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen. The superficial layer should be detached by dividing it across in the same direction as the external incisions ; its removal will be facilitated by commencing at the lower and inner angle of the space, detaching it at first from the front of the internal saphenous vein, and dissecting it off from the anterior sm'face of that vessel and its tributaries; it should then be reflected outwards, in the same manner as the integument. The cutaneous vessels and nerves, and superficial inguinal glands, are then exposed, lying upon the deep layer of the superficial fascia. These are the internal saphenous vein, and the superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, and superficial external pudic vessels, as well as numerous lymphatics ascending with the saphenous vein to the inguinal glands. The internal or long saphenous vein ascends along the inner side of the thigh, and, passing through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, terminates in the femoral vein about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament. This vein receives, at the saphenous opening, the superficial epigastric, the superficial circumflex iliac, and the superficial external pudic veins. The superficial external pudic artery (superior) arises from the inner side of the femoral artery, and, after passing through the saphenous opening, courses inwards, across the spermatic cord, to be distributed to the integument on the lower part of the abdomen, the penis and scrotum in the male, and the labium in the female, anastomosing with branches of the internal pudic. The superficial epigastric artery arises from the femoral, about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, and, passing through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, ascends on to the abdomen, in the superficial fascia covering the External oblique muscle, nearly as high as the umbilicus. It distributes branches to the superficial inguinal lymphatic glands, the superficial fascia, and the integument, anastomosing with branches of the deep epigastric and internal mammary arteries. The superficial circmnfiex iliac artery, the smallest of the cutaneous branches, arises close to the preceding, and, piercing the fascia lata, runs outwards, parallel with Poupart's ligament, as far as the crest of the ilium, dividing into branches which supply the superficial inguinal lymphatic glands, the superficial fascia, and