377 INTERMAXILLARY REGION Zygomaticus major draws the angle of the mouth backwards and upwards, as in laughing; whilst the Zygomaticus minor, being inserted into the outer part of the upper lip and not into the angle of the mouth, draws it backwards, upwards, and outwards, and thus gives to the face an expression of sadness. 7. Inferior Maxillary Region (fig. 269) Levator labii inferioris (Levator menti). Depressor labii inferioris (Quadratus menti). Depressor anguli oris (Triangularis menti). Dissection.—The Muscles in this region may be dissected by making a vertical incision through the integument from the margin of the lower lip to the chin : a second incision should then be carried along the margin of the lower jaw as far as the angle, and the integument carefully removed in the direction shown in fi^. 268. The Levator labii inferioris (Levator menti) is to be dissected by everting the lower lip and raising the mucous membrane. It is a small conical fasciculus, placed on the side of the frsenum of the lower lip. It arises from the incisive fossa, external to the symphysis of the lower jaw : its fibres descend to be inserted into the integument of the chin. Relations.—On its inner surface, with the mucous membrane ; in the median line, it is blended with the muscle of the opposite side ; and on its outer side, with the Depressor labii inferioris. The Depressor labii inferioris (Quadratus menti) is a small quadrilateral muscle. It arises from the external oblique line of the lower jaw, between the symphysis and mental foramen, and passes obliquely upwards and inwards, to be inserted into the integument of the lower lip, its fibres blending with the Orbicularis oris, and with those of its fellow of the opposite side. It is continuous with the fibres of the Platysma at its origin. This muscle contains much yellow fat inter- mingled with its fibres. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with part of the Depressor anguli oris, and with the integument, to which it is closely connected. By its deep surface, with the mental vessels and nerves, the mucous membrane of the lower lip, the labial glands, and the Levator menti, with which it is intimately united. The Depressor anguli oris (Triangularis menti) is triangular in shape, arising, by its broad base, from the external oblique line of the lower jaw, from whence its fibres pass upwards, to be inserted, by a narrow fasciculus, into the angle of the mouth. It is continuous with the Platysma at its origin, and with the Orbicu- laris oris and Risorius at its insertion, and some of its fibres are directly continuous with those of the Levator anguli oris. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the integument. By its deep surface^ with the Depressor labii inferioris and Buccinator. Nerves.—This group of muscles is supplied by the facial nerve. Actions.—The Levator labii inferioris raises the lower lip, and protrudes it forwards, and at the same time wrinkles the integument of the chin, expressing doubt or disdain. The Depressor labii inferioris draws the lower lip directly downwards and a little outwards, as in the expression of irony. The Depressor anguli oris depresses the angle of the mouth, being the antagonist to the Levator anguli oris and Zygomaticus major; acting with these muscles, it will draw the angle of the mouth directly backwards. 8. Intermaxillary Region Orbicularis oris. Buccinator. Risorius. Dissection.—The dissection of these muscles may be considerably facilitated by filling the cavity of the month with tow, so as to distend the cheeks and lips; the mouth should then be closed by a few stitches, and the integument carefully removed from the surface.