640 VEINS On examining its inner surface, it presents the internal openings of the superior cerebral veins, which run, for the most part, from behind forwards, and open chiefly at the back part of the sinus, their orifices being concealed by fibrous folds ; numerous fibrous bands [cJiordcB Willisii) are also seen, extending transversely across the inferior angle of the sinus ; and, lastly, some small, white, projecting bodies, the glandulcB Pacchioni. This sinus receives the superior cerebral veins, numerous veins from the diploe and dura mater, and, at the posterior extremity of the sagittal suture, veins from the pericranium, which pass through the parietal foramen. The torcular Herophili is the dilated extremity of the superior longitudinal sinus. It is of irregular form, and is lodged on one side (generally the right) of the internal occipital protuberance. From it the lateral sinus of the side to which it is deflected is derived. It receives also the blood from the occipital sinus. The Inferior Longitudinal Sinus, more correctly described as the inferior longitudinal vein, is contained in the posterior part of the free margin of the falx cerebri. It is of a cylindrical form, increases in size as it passes backwards, and terminates in the straight sinus. It receives several veins from the falx cerebri, and occasionally a few from the mesial surface of the hemispheres. Fig. 383.—Vertical section of the skull, showing the sinuses of the dura mater. Foramen ccecitm The Straight Sinus is situated at the line of junction of the falx cerebri with the tentorium. It is triangular in form, increases in size as it proceeds backwards, and runs obliquely downwards and backwards from the termination of the inferior longitudinal sinus to the lateral sinus of the opposite side to that into which the superior longitudinal sinus is prolonged. It communicates by a cross branch with the torcular Herophili. Beside the inferior longitudinal sinus, it receives the ven^e Galeni and the superior cerebellar veins. A few transverse bands cross its interior. The Lateral Sinuses are of large size, and are situated in the attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli. They commence at the internal occipital protuberance ; the one, generally the right, being the direct continuation of the superior longi- tudinal sinus, the other of the straight sinus. They pass horizontally outwards to the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, then curve downwards and inwards on each side to reach the jugular foramen, where they terminate in the internal jugular vein. Each sinus rests, in its course, upon the inner surface of the occipital, the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, the mastoid portion of the temporal, and on the occipital, again, just before its termination. These sinuses