565 INFEEIOE THYROID third nerves. Winding round the crus cerebri, they pass to the under surface of the occipital lobes of the cerebrum, and divide into three main branches. Near their origin, they receive the posterior communicating arteries from the internal carotid. The branches of the posterior cerebral artery are :— Postero-median Ganglionic. Postero-lateral Ganglionic. Posterior Choroid. Three Terminal. The 2^oste7V-median ganglionic hranclies (fig. 357) are a group of small arteries which arise at the commencement of the posterior cerebral artery ; these, with similar branches from the posterior communicating, pierce the posterior perforated space, and supply the internal surfaces of the optic thalami and the walls of the third ventricle. The posterior choroid enters the interior of the brain beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum, and supplies the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus. The postero-lateral ganglionic branches are a group of small arteries which arise from the posterior cerebral artery, after it has turned round the crus cerebri; they supply a considerable portion of the optic thalamus. The terminal branches are distributed as follows : the first to the uncinate gyrus; the second to the temporo-sphenoidal lobe ; and the third to the cuneus or the occipital lobule. Circle of Willis.—The remarkable anastomosis which exists between the branches of the internal carotid and vertebral arteries at the base of the brain constitutes the circle of Willis. It is formed, in front, by the anterior cerebral arteries, branches of the internal carotid, which are connected together by the anterior communicating; behind, by the two posterior cerebrals, branches of the basilar, Avhich are connected on each side with the internal carotid by the posterior communicating arteries (fig. 354). It is by this anastomosis that the cerebral circulation is equalised, and provision made for effectually carrying it on if one or more of the branches are obliterated. The parts of the brain included within this arterial circle are : the lamina cinerea, the commissure of the optic nerves, the infundibulum, the tuber cinereum, the corpora albicantia, and the posterior perforated space. The Thyroid Axis (fig. 347) is a short thick trunk, which arises from the fore part of the first portion of the subclavian artery, close to the inner border of the Scalenus anticus muscle, and divides, almost immediately after its origin, into three branches, the inferior thyroid, suprascapular, and transversalis colli. The Inferior Thyroid Artery passes upwards, in a serpentine course, behind the sheath of the common carotid vessel and sympathetic nerve (the middle cervical ganglion resting upon it), and in front of the vertebral artery, recurrent laryngeal nerve, and Longus colli muscle, and is distributed to the under surface of the thyroid gland, anastomosing with the superior thyroid, and with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. Its branches are, the Inferior Laryngeal. CEsophageal. Tracheal. Ascending Cervical. Muscular. The inferior laryngeal branch ascends upon the trachea to the back part of the larynx, in company with the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and supplies the muscles and mucous membrane of this part, anastomosing with the branch from the opposite side, and with the laryngeal branch from the superior thyroid artery. The tracheal branches are distributed upon the trachea, anastomosing below with the bronchial arteries. The oesophageal branches are distributed to the oesophagus, and anastomose with the oesophageal branches of the aorta. The ascending cervical is a small branch which arises from the inferior thyroid, just where that vessel is passing behind the common carotid artery, and runs up on the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae in the interval between the Scalenus anticus and Rectus capitis anticus major. It gives branches to the muscles of the neck, which anastomose with branches of the