MUSCLES AND FASCIA 444 lower part of the sternmii; a second incision along the lower horder of the Pectoral muscle, from the ensiform cartilage to the inner side of the axilla; a third, from the sternum along the clavicle, as far as its centre; and a fourth, from the middle of the clavicle obliquely downwards, along the interspace between the Pectoral and Deltoid nniscles, as low as the fold of the armpit. The flap of integument is then to be dissected off in the direction indicated in the figure, but not entirely removed, as it should be replaced on completing the dissection. If a transverse incision is now made from the lower end of the sternum to the side of the chest, as far as the posterior fold of the armpit, and the integument reflected outwards, the axillary space will be more completely exposed. Fascia of the Thokax The superficial fascia of the thoracic region is a loose cellnlo-fibrous layer, enclosing masses of fat in its spaces. It is continuous with the superficial fascia of the neck and upper extremity above, and of the abdomen below. Opposite the mamma, it divides into two layers, one of which passes in front, the other behind that giand ; and from both of these layers numerous septa pass into its sub- stance, supporting its various lobes : from the anterior layer, fibrous pro- cesses pass forward to the integu- ment and nipple. These processes were called by Sir A. Cooper the ligamenta suspensoria, from the support they afford to the gland in this situation. The deep fascia of the thoracic region is a thin aponeurotic lamina, covering the surface of the great Pectoral muscle, and sending numerous prolongations between its fasciculi: it is attached, in the middle line, to the front of the sternum; and, above, to the clavicle. It is very thin over the upper part of the muscle, thicker in the interval between the Pectoralis major and Latissimus dorsi, where it closes in the axillary space, and divides at the outer margin of the latter muscle into two layers, one of which passes in front, and the other behind it; these proceed as far as the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae, to which they are attached. At the lower part of the thoracic region this fascia is well- developed, and is continuous with the fibrous sheath of the Recti muscles. Anterior Thoracic Region Pectoralis major. Pectoralis minor. Subclavius. The Pectoralis major (fig. 302) is a broad, thick, triangular muscle, situated at the upper and fore part of the chest, in front of the axilla. It arises from the anterior surface of the sternal half of the clavicle ; from half the breadth of the anterior surface of the sternum, as low down as the attachment of the cartilage of the sixth or seventh rib; this portion of its origin consists of aponeurotic fibres, which intersect with those of the opposite muscle; it also arises from the Fig. 301.—Dissection of upper extremity.