AETICULATIONS 292 Gliding movement is the most simple kind of motion that can take place in a joint, one surface gliding or moving over another without any angular or rotatory movement. It is common to all movable joints ; but in some, as in the articu- lations of the carpus and tarsus, it is the only motion permitted. This movement is not confined to plane surfaces, but may exist between any two contiguous surfaces, of whatever form, limited by the ligaments which enclose the articu- lation. Angular movement occurs only between the long bones, and by it the angle between the two bones is increased or diminished. It may take place in four directions : forwards and backwards, constituting flexion and extension, or inwards and outwards, from the mesial line of the body (or in the fingers and toes from the middle line of the hand or foot), constituting adduction and abduction. The strictly ginglymoid or hinge-joints admit of flexion and extension only. Abduction and adduction, combined with flexion and extension, are met with in the more movable joints ; as in the hip, shoulder, and metacarpal joint of the thumb, and partially in the wrist. Circumduction is that limited degree of motion which takes place between the head of a bone and its articular cavity, whilst the extremity and sides of the limb are made to circumscribe a conical space, the base of which corresponds with the mferior extremity of the limb, the apex with the articular cavity ; this kind of motion is best seen in the shoulder- and hip-joints. Rotation is the movement of a bone upon an axis, which is the axis of the pivot on which the bone turns, as in the articulation between the atlas and |axis, when the odontoid process serves as a pivot around which the atlas turns; or else is the axis of a pivot-like process which turns within a ring, as in the rotation of the radius upon the humerus. Ligamentous Action of Muscles.—The movements of the different joints of a limb are combined by means of the long muscles which pass over more than one joint, and which, when relaxed and stretched to their greatest extent, act to a certain extent as elastic ligaments in restraining certain movements of one joint, except when combined with corresponding movements of the other—these latter movements being usually in the opposite direction. Thus the shortness of the hamstring- muscles prevents complete flexion of the hip, unless the knee-joint be also flexed, so as to bring their attachments nearer together. The uses of this arrangement are threefold, i. It co-ordinates the kinds of movement which are the most habitual and necessary, and enables them to be performed with the least expendi- ture of power. ' Thus in the usual gesture of the arms, whether in grasping or rejecting, the shoulder and the elbow are flexed simultaneously, and simultaneously extended,' in consequence of the passage of the Biceps and Triceps cubiti over both joints. 2. It enables the short muscles which pass over only one joint to act upon more than one. ' Thus, if the Rectus femoris remain tonically of such length that, when stretched over the extended hip, it compels extension of the knee, then the Gluteus maximus becomes, not only an extensor of the hip, but an extensor of the knee as well.' 3. It provides the joints with ligaments which, while they are of very great power in resisting movements to an extent incompatible with the mechanism of the joint, at the same time spontaneously yield when necessary. ' Taxed beyond its strength a ligament will be ruptured, whereas a contracted muscle is easily relaxed ; also, if neighbouring joints be united by ligaments, the amount of flexion or extension of each must remain in constant proportion to that of the other ; while, if the union be by muscles, the separation of the points of attach- ment of those muscles may vary considerably in different varieties of movement, the muscles adapting themselves tonically to the length required.' The quotations are from a very interesting paper by Dr. Cleland, in the ' Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' No. i, 1866, p. 85 ; by whom I believe this important fact in the mechanism of joints was first clearly pointed out, though it has been independently observed afterwards by other anatomists. Dr. W. W. Keen points out how important it is ' that the surgeon should remember this ligamentous action of