ARTERIES 626 the Extensor proprins liallucis, in the interval between it and tlie inner border of the short Extensor muscle. The incision should not extend further forwards than the back part of the first intermetatarsal space, as the artery divides in that situation. The deep fascia being divided to the same extent, the artery will be exposed, the nerve Ij'ingupon its outer side. Branches.—The branches of the dorsalis pedis are, the The tarsal artery arises from the dorsalis pedis, as that vessel crosses the navicular bone; it passes in an arched direction outwards, lying upon the tarsal bones, and covered by the Extensor brevis digitorum ; it supplies that muscle and the articulations of the tarsus, and anastomoses with branches from the metatarsal, external malleolar, peroneal, and external plantar arteries. The metatarsal arises a little anterior to the preceding ; it passes outwards to the outer part of the foot, over the bases of the metatarsal bones, beneath the tendons of the short Extensor, its direction being influenced by its point of origin ; and it anastomoses wdth the tarsal and external plantar arteries. This vessel gives off three branches, the interosseous arteries, w^hich pass forwards upon the three outer Dorsal interossei muscles, and, in the clefts between the toes, divide into two dorsal collateral branches for the adjoining toes. At the back part of each interosseous space these vessels receive the posterior perforating branches from the plantar arch ; and at the fore part of each interosseous space, they are joined by the anterior perforating branches, from the digital arteries. The outer- most interosseous artery gives off a branch which supplies the outer side of the little toe. The dorsalis hallucis runs forwards along the outer border of the first meta- tarsal bone, and at the cleft between the first and second toes divides into tw^o branches, one of which passes inwards, beneath the tendon of the Extensor proprius hallucis, and is distributed to the inner border of the great toe ; the outer branch bifurcates, to supply the adjoining sides of the great and second toes. The communicating artery dips down into the sole of the foot, between the two heads of the First dorsal interosseous muscle, and inosculates wdth the termina- tion of the external plantar artery, to complete the plantar arch. It here gives off two digital branches : one runs along the inner side of the great toe, on its plantar surface ; the other passes forwards along the first interosseous space, and bifurcates for the supply of the adjacent sides of the great and second toes. The posterior tibial is an artery of large size, which extends obliquely down- w^ards from the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, along the tibial side of the leg, to the fossa between the inner ankle and the heel, where it divides beneath the origin of the Abductor hallucis, on a level with a line drawn from the point of the internal malleolus to the centre of the convexity of the heel, into the internal and external plantar arteries. At its origin it lies opposite the interval between the tibia and fibula ; as it descends, it approaches the inner side of the leg, lying behind the tibia, and, in the lower part of its course, is situated midway between the inner malleolus and the tuberosity of the os calcis. Relations.—It lies successively upon the Tibialis posticus, the Flexor longus digitorum, the tibia, and the back part of the ankle-joint. It is covered by the deep transverse fascia, which separates it above from the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. In the lower third, w^here it is more superficial, it is covered only by the integument and fascia, and runs parallel with the inner border of the tendo Achillis. It is accompanied by tw^o veins, and by the posterior tibial nerve, which lies at first to the inner side of the artery, but soon crosses it, and is, in the greater part of its course, on its outer side. Tarsal. Metatarsal—^Interosseous. Dorsalis Hallucis. Communicating. PosTEKiOE Tibial Aeteey