5i6 SUEGICAL ANATOMY fleshy fibres terminate abruptly in a tendon which overlaps the more flattened form of the Peroneus brevis. At the External malleolus the tendon of the Peroneus brevis is more marked than that of the Peroneus longus. On the dorsum of the foot the tendons of the Extensor muscles, emerging from beneath the anterior annular ligament, spread out and can be distinguished in the following order: the most internal and largest is the Tibialis anticus, then the Extensor proprius hallucis; next comes the Extensor longus digitorum, dividing into four tendons to the four outer toes ; and lastly, most externally, is the Peroneus tertius. The flattened form of the dorsum of the foot is relieved by the rounded outline of the fleshy belly of the JExtensor hi^evis digitorum, which forms a soft fulness on the outer side of the tarsus in front of the external malleolus, and by the Dorsal interossei, which bulge between the metatarsal bones. At the back of the knee is the popliteal space, bounded above b}' the tendons of the Hamstring muscles; below% b}' the two heads of the Gastrocnemius. Below this space is the prominent fleshy mass of the calf of the leg, produced by the Gastrocnemius and Soleus. When these muscles are in action, as in standing on tiptoe, the borders of the Gastrocnemius are well defined, presenting two curved lines, wdiich converge to the tendon of insertion. Of these borders, the inner is more prominent than the outer. The fleshy mass of the calf terminates somewhat abruptly below in the tendo Achillis, which stands out prominently on the lower part of the back of the leg. It presents a somewhat tapering form in the upper three-fourths of its extent, but widens out slightly below. "When the muscles of the calf are in action, the lateral portions of the Soleus may be seen, forming curved eminences, of which the outer is the longer, on either side of the Gastrocnemius. Behind the inner border of the lower part of the shaft of the tibia, a well-marked ridge, produced by the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, is visible when this muscle is in a state of contraction. On the sole of the foot the superficial layer of muscles influences surface form; the Abductor minimi digiti most markedly. This muscle forms a narrow rounded elevation along the outer border of the foot, while the Abductor hallucis does the same, though to a less extent, on the inner side. The Flexor brevis digitorum, bound down by the plantar fascia, is not very apparent; it produces a flattened form, covered by the thickened skin of the sole, wdiich is here thrown into numerous wrinkles. SUEGICAL ANATOMY The student should now consider the effects produced by the action of the various muscles in fractures of the bones of the lower extremitv Fig. 338. -Fracture of the neck of the femur within the capsular ligament. The more common forms of fracture are selected for illustration and descrip- tion. In fracture of the neck of the femur internal to the capsiUar ligament (fig. 338), the character- istic marks are slight shortening of the limb, and eversion of the foot, neither of which sym- ptoms occurs, however, in some cases imtil some time after the injury. The eversion is caused by the weight of the limb rotating it outwards. The shorten- ing is produced by the action of the Glutei, and by the Rectus femoris in front, and the Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semimembranosus be- hind. In fracture of the femur just beloiv the trochanters (fig. 339), the upper fragment, the por- tion chiefly displaced, is tilted forwards almost at right angles with the pelvis, by the combined action of the Psoas and Iliacus; and, at the same time, everted and drawn outwards by the external rotator and Glutei muscles, causing a marked prominence at the upper and outer side of the thigh, and much pain from the bruising and laceration of the muscles. The limb is shortened, in consequence of the lower fragment being drawn Pyriformis Gemellus superior Obturator internus Gemelhts inferior Obturator externus Qua dratus femoris