THE SKELETON 278 The anterior surface, of an oblong form, is convex from side to side, and sub- divided by two ridges into three facets, for articulation with the three cuneiform bones. The posterior surface is oval, concave, broader externally than internally, and articulates with the rounded head of the astragalus. The superior surface is convex from side to side, and rough for the attachment of ligaaiients. The inferior is irregular, and also rough for the attachment of ligaments. The internal surface presents a rounded tubercular eminence, the tuberosity of the navicular, the lower part of which projects, and gives attachment to part of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. The external surface is rough, and irregular, for the attachment of ligamentous fibres, and occasionally presents a small facet for articulation with the cuboid bone. To ascertain to which foot the bone belongs, hold it with the concave articular surface backwards, and the convex dorsal surface upwards ; the external surface, i.e. the surface opposite the tubercle, will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With four bones : astragalus and three cuneiform ; occasionally also with the cuboid. Attachment of Muscles.—Part of the Tibialis posticus. The Cuneiform Bones The Cuneiform Bones have received their name from their wedge-like shape (cuneus, a tuedge; forma, likeness). They form, with the cuboid, the anterior row of the tarsus, being placed between the navicular behind, the three innermost metatarsal bones in front, and the cuboid externally. They are called the first, second, and third, counting from the inner to the outer side of the foot, and, from their position, internal, middle, and external. The Internal Cuneiform The Internal Cuneiform is the largest of the three. It is situated at the inner side of the foot, between the navicular behind and the base of the first metatarsal in front. It may be distinguished from the other two by its large size, and its more irregular, wedge-like form. Without the others, it may be known by the large kidney-shaped anterior articulating surface, and by the prominence on the inferior or plantar surface for the attachment of the Tibialis posticus. It presents for examination six surfaces. The internal surface is subcutaneous, and forms part of the inner border of the foot; it is broad, quadrilateral, and presents at its anterior inferior angle a smooth oval facet, into which the tendon of the Tibialis anticus is partially inserted; in the rest of its extent it is rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The exterjial surface is concave, presenting, along its superior and posterior borders, a narrow reversed L-shaped surface for articulation with the middle cuneiform behind, and second metatarsal bone in front: in the rest of its extent, it is rough for the attachment of Ugaments and part of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The anterior surface, kidney-shaped, much larger than the posterior, articulates with the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The posterior surface is triangular, concave, and articulates Avith the innermost and largest of the three facets on the anterior surface of the navicular. The inferior or pla^itar surface is rough, and presents a prominent tuberosity at its back part for the attachment of part of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. It also gives attachment in front to part of the tendon of the Tibialis anticus. The superior surface is the narrow pointed end of the wedge, which is directed upwards and outwards ; it is rough for the attachment of ligaments. To ascertain to Avhich side the bone belongs, hold it so that its superior narrow edge looks upwards, and the long, kidney-shaped, articular surface forwards ; the