793 LUMBAR Again, it must be borne in mind that the same nerves which supply the skin of the abdomen supply also the planes of muscle, which constitute the greater part of the abdominal wall. Hence it follows that any irritation applied to the peripheral termina- tions of the cutaneous branches in the skin of the abdomen is immediately followed b y reflex contraction of the abdominal muscles. A good practical illustration of this may sometimes be seen in watching two surgeons examine the abdomen of the same patient. One, whose hand is cold, causes the muscles of the abdominal wall to at once contract and the belly to become rigid, and thus'not nearly so suitable for examination ; the other, who has taken the precaution to warm his hand, examines the abdomen without exciting any reflex contraction. The supply of both muscles and skin from the same source is of importance in protecting the abdominal viscera from injury. A blow on the abdomen, even of a severe character, will do no injury to the viscera if the muscles are in a condition of firm contraction; whereas in cases where the muscles have been taken unawares, and the blow has been struck while they were in a state of rest, an injury insufficient to produce any lesion of the abdominal wall has been attended with rupture of some of the abdominal contents. The importance therefore of immediate reflex contraction upon the receipt of an injury cannot be overestimated, and the intimate association of the cutaneous and muscular fibres in the same nerve produces a much more immediate response on the part of the muscles to any peripheral stimulation of the cutaneous filaments than would be the case if the two sets of fibres were derived from independent sources. Again, the nerves supplying the abdominal muscles and skin derived from the lower intercostal nerves are intimately connected with the sympathetic supplying the abdominal viscera, through the lower thoracic ganglia from which the splanchnic nerves are derived. In consequence of this, in laceration of the abdominal viscera and in acute peritonitis, the muscles of the belly wall become firmly contracted, and thus as far as possible preserve the abdominal contents in a condition of rest. LUMBAE NERVES The lumbar nerves are five in number on each side. The first appears between the first and second lumbar vertebra, and the last between the last lumbar and the base of the sacrum. The roots of the lumbar nerves are the largest, and their filaments the most numerous, of all the spinal nerves, and they are closely aggregated together upon the lower end of the cord. The anterior roots are the smaller ; but there is not the same disproportion between them and the posterior roots as in the cervical nerves. The roots of these nerves have a vertical direction, and are of considerable length, more especially the lower ones, since the spinal cord does not extend beyond the first lumbar vertebra. The roots become joined in the intervertebral foramina ; and the nerves, so formed, divide at their exit into two divisions, posterior and anterior. PosTEEioE Divisions of the Lumbar Nekves The posterior divisions of the lumbar nerves (fig. 463) diminish in size from above downwards ; they pass backwards between the transverse processes, and divide into internal and external branches. The internal branches, the smaller, pass imvards close to the articular processes of the vertebrae, and supply the Multifidus spinae and Interspinals muscles. The external branches supply the Erector spinse and Intertransverse muscles. From the three upper branches, cutaneous nerves are derived which pierce the aponeurosis of the Latissimus dorsi muscle, and descend over the back part of the crest of the ilium, to be distributed to the integument of the gluteal region, some of the filaments passing as far as the trochanter major. Anteeior Divisions of the Lumbar Nerves The anterior divisions of the lumbar nerves increase in size from above downwards. At their origin, they communicate with the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic by long, slender filaments, Avhich accompany the lumbar arteries round the sides of the bodies of the vertebraB, beneath the Psoas muscle. The nerves pass obliquely outwards behind the Psoas magnus, or between its fasciculi, distributing filaments to it and the Quadratus lumborum. The anterior divisions of the four upper nerves are connected together in this situation by anastomotic loops, and form the lumbar plexiLS. The anterior division of the fifth lumbar, joined with a branch