GENEEAL ANATOMY TO detachment from the surface, preceded possibly by their bm'sting and discharging their contents, or by various forms of degeneration—fatty, pigmentary, or calcareous. EPITHELIUM All the surfaces of the body—the external surface of the skin, the internal surface of the digestive, respiratory, and genito-urinary tracts, the closed serous cavities, the inner coat of the vessels, and the ducts of all secreting and excreting glands—are covered by one or more layers of simple cells, called epithelium or eijithelial cells. These cells are also present in the sensory and terminal parts of the organs of special sense, and in some other organs, as the pituitary and thyroid bodies. They serve various purposes, forming in some cases a protective layer, in others acting as an agent in secretion and excretion, and again in others being concerned in the elaboration of the organs of special sense. Thus, in the skin, the main purpose served by the epithelium (here called the epidermis) is that of protection. As the surface is worn away by the agency of friction or change of temperature new cells are supplied, and thus the surface of the true skin and the vessels and nerves which it contains, are defended from damage. In the gastro- intestinal mucous membrane and in the glands, the epithelial cells appear to be the principal agents in separating the secretion from the blood or from the alimen- tary fluids. In other situations (as the nose, fauces, and respiratory passages) the chief office of the epithelial cells appears to be to maintain an equable temperature by the moisture with which they keep the surface ahvays slightly lubricated. In the serous cavities they also keep the opposed layers moist, and thus facilitate their movements on each other. Finally, in all internal parts they ensure a perfectly smooth surface. Of late years there has been a tendency on the part of many histologists to divide these several epithelial linings into two classes : into (i) epithelial tissue proper, consisting of nucleated protoplasmic cells, which form continuous masses on the skin and mucous surfaces and the linings of the ducts and alveoli of secreting and excretirig glands ; and (2) endothelium, which is composed of a single layer of flattened transparent squamous cells, joined edge to edge in such a manner as to form a membrane of cells. This is found on the free surfaces of the serous membranes ; as the lining membrane of the heart, blood-vessels, and lymphatics ; on the surface of the brain and spinal cord, and in the anterior chamber of the eye. And though the separation must be an artificial one, since every gradation of transition between the two classes may be observed, it would seem advisable for the purposes of description to employ it. I. True epithelial tissue consists of one or more layers of cells, united toge- FiG. 7.—Epithelial cells from the oral cavity of man. Magnified 350 times. a. Large, h. Middle-sized, c. The same with two nuclei. ther by an interstitial cement-substance, supported on a basement-membrane, and is naturally grouped into two classes according as there is a single layer of cells {simple epithelium), or more than one {stratified epithelium). The various