767 TWELFTH. HYPOGLOSSAL the foramen magnum, and is then directed outwards to the jugular foramen, through which it passes, lying in the same sheath as the pneumogastric, but separated from it by a fold of the arachnoid. In the jugular foramen, it receives one or two filaments from the accessory portion. At its exit from the jugular foramen, it passes backwards, either in front of or behind the internal jugular vein, and descends obliquely behind the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles to the upper part of the Sterno-mastoid. It pierces that muscle, and passes obliquely across the occipital triangle, to terminate in the deep surface of the Trapezius. This nerve gives several branches to the Sterno-mastoid during its passage through it, and joins in its substance with branches from the second cervical, which supply the muscle. In the occipital triangle it joins with the second and third cervical nerves and assists in the formation of the cervical plexus. Beneath the Trapezius it joins with the third and fourth cervical nerves to form a sort of plexus, from which fibres are distributed to the muscle. Surgical Anatomy.—In cases of spasmodic torticollis in which all previous palliative treatment has failed, and the spasms are so severe as to midermine the patient's health, division or excision of a portion of the spinal accessory nerve has been resorted to. This may be done either along the anterior or posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle. The former operation is performed by making an incision from the apex of the mastoid process, three inches in length, along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle. The anterior border of the muscle is defined and pulled backwards, so as to stretch the nerve, which is then to be sought for, beneath the Digastric muscle, about two inches below the apex of the mastoid process. The other operation consists in making an incision along the posterior border of the muscle, so that the centre of the incision corresponds to the middle of this border of the muscle. The superficial structures having been divided and the border of the muscle defined, the nerve is to be sought for as it emerges from the muscle to cross the occipital triangle. When found, it is to be traced upwards through the muscle, and a portion of it excised above the point where it gives off its branches to the Sterno-mastoid. In this operation one of the descending branches of the superficial cervical plexus is liable to be mistaken for the nerve. Twelfth Pair (figs. 453, 454) The Twelfth or Hypoglossal Nerve is the motor nerve of the tongue. Its superficial origin is by several filaments, from ten to fifteen in number, from the groove between the pyramidal and olivary bodies, in a continuous line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. Its deep origin can be traced to a nucleus of grey matter on the floor of the fourth ventricle, on either side of the median line, extending from the level of the auditory striae to the lowest point of the ventricle of Arantius. The filaments of this nerve are collected into two bundles, which perforate the dura mater separately, opposite the anterior condyloid foramen, and unite together after their passage through it. In those cases in which the anterior condyloid foramen in the occipital bone is double, these two portions of the nerve are separated by the small piece of bone which divides the foramen. The nerve descends almost vertically to a point corresponding with the angle of the jaw. It is at first deeply seated beneath the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, and intimately connected with the pneumogastric nerve ; it then passes forwards between the vein and artery, and lower down in the neck becomes super- ficial below the Digastric muscle. The nerve then loops round the occipital artery, and crosses the external carotid below the tendon of the Digastric muscle. It passes beneath the Mylo-hyoid muscle, lying between it and the Hyo-glossus, and communicates at the anterior border of the latter muscle with the lingual (gustatory) nerve; it is then continued forwards in the fibres of the Genio-hyo-glossus muscle as far as the tip of the tongue, distributing branches to its substance. The branches of communication are, with the Pneumogastric. First and second cervical nerves. Sympathetic. Lingual (gustatory). The communication with the pneumogastric takes place close to the exit of the nerve from the skull, numerous filaments passing between the hypoglossal and lower ganglion of the pneumogastric; sometimes the two nerves are united so as