HUMERUS The posterior surface (fig. 198) ap- pears somewhat twisted, so that its upper part is directed a Httle inwards, its lower part baclnvards and a Httle outwards. Nearly the whole of this surface is covered by the external and internal heads of the Triceps, the former of which is attached to its upper and outer part, the latter to its inner and hack part, the two being- separated by the musculo-spiral groove. The Lower Extremity is flattened from before backwards, and curved slightly forwards ; it terminates below in a broad, articular surface, which is divided into two parts by a slight ridge. Projecting on either side are the external and internal condyles. The articular surface extends a little lower than the condyles, and is curved slightly forwards, so as to occupy the more anterior part of the bone ; its greatest breadth is in the transverse dia- meter, and it is obliquely directed, so that its inner extremity occupies a lower level than the outer. The outer portion of the articular surface presents a smooth, rounded eminence, which has received the name of the capitellum, or radial head of the humerus ; it articulates with the cup- shaped depression on the head of the radius, and is limited to the front and lower part of the bone, not extending as far back as the other portion of the articular surface. On the inner side of this eminence is a shallow groove, in w^hich is received the inner margin of the head of the radius. Above the front part of the capitellum is seen a slight depres- sion, which receives the anterior border of the head of the radius, when the fore-arm is flexed. The inner portion of the ar- ticular surface, the trochlear, presents a deep depression between two well-marked borders. This surface is convex from before backwards, concave from side to side, and occupies the anterior, lower, and posterior parts of the bone. The external border, less prominent than the internal, corresponds to the interval between the radius and the ulna. The internal border is thicker, more prominent, and conse- quently of greater length, than the ex- ternal. The grooved portion of the ar- ticular surface fits accurately within the Coraco-brachialis muscle is frequently con- nected with this process, according to Mr. J. Wood, Journal of Anat. and Phys. No. i, Nov. 1866, p. 47.