187 THE ZYGOMATIC FOSSA zygomatic fossa by the pterygoid ridge, seen on the outer surface of the great wing of the sphenoid. This fossa is formed by five bones, part of the frontal, great wing of the sphenoid, parietal, squamous portion of the temporal, and malar bones, and is traversed by six sutures, part of the transverse facial, spheno- malar, coronal, spheno-parietal, squamo-parietal, and squamo-sphenoidal. The point where the coronal suture crosses the temporal ridge is sometimes named the stejjhanioii; and the region where the four bones, the parietal, the frontal, the squamous, and the greater wing of the sphenoid, meet, at the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, is named the i)tcrion. This point is about on a level with the external angular XDrocess of the frontal bone and about one and a half inch behind it. This fossa is deeply concave in front, convex behind, traversed by grooves which lodge branches of the deep temporal arteries, and filled by the Temporal muscles. The Mastoid Portion The Mastoid Portion of the side of the skull is bounded in front by the tubercle of the zygoma ; above, by a line which runs from the posterior root of the zygoma to the end of the masto-parietal suture ; behind and below by the masto-occipital suture. It is formed by the mastoid and part of the squamous and petrous por- tions of the temporal bone ; its surface is convex and rough for the attachment of muscles, and presents, from behind forwards, the mastoid foramen, the mastoid process, the external auditory meatus, surrounded by the auditory process, and, most anteriorly, the temporo-maxillary articulation. The Zygomatic Fossa The Zygomatic Fossa is an irregularly shaped cavity, situated below and on the inner side of the zygoma ; bounded, in front, by the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone and the ridge Avhich descends from its malar process; behind, by the posterior border of the pterygoid process and the eminentia articularis ; above, by the pterygoid ridge on the outer surface of the great wing of the sphenoid, and the under part of the squamous portion of the temporal; below, by the alveolar border of the superior maxilla; internally, by the external pterygoid plate; and externally, by the zygomatic arch and ramus of the lower jaw. It contains the lower part of the Temporal, the External and Internal pterygoid muscles, the internal maxillary artery and inferior maxillary nerve and their branches. At its upper and inner part may be observed two fissures, the spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxillary. The Spheno-maxillary Fissure, horizontal in direction, opens into the outer and back part of the orbit. It is formed above by the lower border of the orbital surface of the great wing of the sphenoid; below, by the external border of the orbital surface of the superior maxilla and a small part of the palate-bone; externally, by a small part of the malar bone : * internally, it joins at right angles with the pterygo-maxillary fissure. This fissure opens a communication from the orbit into three fossae—the temporal, zygomatic, and spheno-maxillary; it transmits the superior maxillary nerve and its orbital branch, the infra-orbital vessels, and ascending branches from the spheno-palatine or Meckel's ganglion. The Pterygo-maxillary Fissure is vertical, and descends at right angles from the inner extremity of the preceding; it is a V-shaped interval, formed by the divergence of the superior maxillary bone from the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. It serves to connect the spheno-maxillary fossa with the zygomatic fossa, and transmits branches of the internal maxillary artery. It forms the entrance from the zygomatic fossa to the spheno-maxillary fossa. * Occasionally the superior maxillary bone and the sphenoid articulate with each other at the anterior extremity of this fissure ; the malar is then excluded from entering into its formation.