OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA 1055 fascia, Cremaster muscle, infimdibuliform fascia, subserous areolar tissue, and peritoneum. This form of hernia lies in front of the vessels of the spermatic cord, and seldom extends below the testis, on account of the intimate adhesion of the coverings of the cord to the tunica vaginalis. The seat of stricture in oblique inguinal hernia is either at the external ring ; in the inguinal canal, caused by the fibres of the Internal oblique or Transversalis ; or at the internal ring ; most frequently in the latter situation. If it is situated at the external ring, the division of a few fibres at one point of its circumference is all that is necessary for the replacement of the hernia. If in the inguinal canal, or at the internal ring, it may be necessary to divide the aponeurosis of the External oblique so as to lay open the inguinal canal. In dividing the stricture, the direction of the incision should be upwards. When the intestine passes along the spermatic canal, and escapes from the external ring into the scrotum, it is called complete oblique inguinal, or scrotal hernia. If the intestine does not escape from the external ring, but is retained in the inguinal canal, it is called incomplete inguinal hernia, or bubonocele. In each of these cases, the coverings which invest it will depend upon the extent to which it descends in the inguinal canal. There are some other varieties of oblique inguinal hernia depending upon congenital defects in the processus vaginalis. The testicle in its descent from the abdomen into the scrotum is accompanied by a pouch of peritoneum, which about the period of birth becomes shut off from the general peritoneal cavity by a closure of that portion of the pouch which extends from the internal abdominal ring to near the upper part of the testicle ; the lower portion of the pouch remaining per- sistent as the tunica vaginalis. It would appear that this closure commences at two points, viz. at the internal abdominal ring, and at the top of the epididymis, and gradually extends until, in the normal condition, the whole of the intervening portion is converted into a fibrous cord. From failure in the completion of this process, variations in the relation of the hernial protrusion to the testicle and tunica vaginalis are produced, which constitute distinct varieties of inguinal hernia, and which have received separate names, and are of surgical importance. These are congenital, infantile, encysted, and hernia of the funicular process. Congenital hernia (fig. 625, b).—Where the pouch of peritoneum which accompanies the cord and testis in its descent remains patent throughout, and is unclosed at any point, the cavity of the tunica vaginalis communicates directly with the peritoneum. The intestine descends along this pouch into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, which constitutes the sac of the hernia, and the gut lies in contact with the testicle. Infantile and encysted hernia.—Where the poach of peritoneum is occluded at the internal ring only, and remains patent throughout the rest of its extent, two varieties of oblique inguinal hernia may be produced, which have received the names of infantile and encysted hernia. In the infantile form (fig. 625, c) the bowel pressing upon the septum and the peritoneum in its immediate neighbourhood causes it to yield and form a sac, which descends behind the tunica vaginalis ; so that, in front of the bowel, there are three layers of peritoneum, the two layers of the tunica vaginalis and its own sac. In the encysted form (fig. 625, d) pressure in the same position—namely, at the occluded spot in the pouch—causes the septum to yield and form a sac which projects into and not behind the tunica vaginalis, as in the infantile form, and thus it constitutes a sac within a sac. so that in front of the bowel there are two layers of peritoneum, one layer of the tunica vaginalis and its own sac. Hernia into the funicular process (fig. 625, e).—Where the pouch of peritoneum is occluded at the lower point only, that is, just above the testicle, the intestine descends into the pouch of peritoneum as far as the testicle, but is prevented from entering the sac of the tunica vaginalis by the septum which has formed between it and the pouch, so that it resembles the congenital form in all respects,