DORSALIS PEDIS 625 The anterior recurrent tibial branch arises from the anterior tibial, as soon as that vessel has passed through the interosseous s^Dace ; it ascends in the Tibialis anticus muscle, and ramifies on the front and sides of the knee-joint, anastomosing with the articular branches of the popliteal, and with the anasto- motica magna. The muscular branches are numerous : they are distributed to the muscles which lie on each side of the vessel, some piercing the deep fascia to supply the integument, others passing through the interosseous membrane, and anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries. The malleolar arteries supply the ankle-joint. The internal arises about two inches above the articulation, and passes beneath the tendons of the Extensor proprius hallucis and Tibiahs anticus to the inner ankle, upon which it ramifies, anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial and internal plantar arti virs and with the internal calcanean from the posterior tibial. The external passes beneath the tendons of the Extensor longus digitorum and Peroneus tertius, and supplies the outer ankle, anastomosing with the anterior peroneal artery, and with a'=cending branches from the tarsal branch of the dor sails pedis. DoESALis Pedis Aeteey (fig. 378) The dorsalis pedis, the continuation of the anterior tibial, passes forwards from the bend of the ankle along the tibial side of the foot to the back part of the first intermetatarsal space, where it divides into two branches, the dorsalis Jiallucis and covimiinicatijig. Relations.—This vessel, in its course forwards, rests upon the astragalus, navicular, and internal cmieiform bones and the hgaments connecting them, being covered by the integument and fascia, anterior annular ligament, and crossed near its termination by the innermost tendon of the Extensor brevis digitorum. On its tibi'al side is the tendon of the Extensor proprius hallucis; on its fibular side, the innermost tendon of the Extensor longus digitorum, and the termination of the anterior tibial nerve. It is accompanied by two veins. Plan of the Relations of the Doesalis Pedis Aeteey 1)2 front. Integument and fascia. Anterior annular ligament. Innermost tendon of Extensor brevis digitorum. \ Fibular side. '"^Pefii^^' Extensor louijus dii^itonnn. / Anterior tibial ner\ e. Bell ind. Astragalus. Navicular. Internal cuneiform, and their ligaments. Peculiarities in Size.—The dorsal artery' of the foot may be larger than usual, to compensate for a deficient plantar artery ; or it may be deficient in its terminal branches to the toes, which are then derived fi'om the internal plantar; or its place may be supplied altogether by a large anterior peroneal artery. Position.—This artery frequently curves outwards, lying external to the line between the middle of the ankle and the back part of the first interosseous space. Surface MarJcing.—The dorsalis pedis artery is indicated on the surface of the dorsum of the foot by a line drawn from the centre of the space between the two malleoli to the back of the first intermetatarsal space. Surgiccd Anatomij.—This artery may be tied, by making an incision through the integument, between two and three inches in length, on the fibular side of the tendon of S S Tibial side. Extensor proprius hallucis.