THE SKELETON 158 outer side, and by the other bones ah^eady mentioned, are divided by a thin trans- verse bony partition into two sets, which do not communicate with each other ; they are termed the anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells, or sinuses. The former, more numerous, communicate with the frontal sinuses above, and the middle meatus below, by means of a long, flexuous canal, the infimdibuhim ; the posterior, less numerous, open into the superior meatus, and communicate (occasionally) with the sphenoidal sinuses. Development.—By tJn-ee centres : one for the perpendicular lamella, and one for each lateral mass. The lateral masses are first developed, ossific granules making their appear- ance in the os planum between the fourth and fifth months of foetal life, and extending into the spongy bones. At birth, the bone consists of the two lateral masses, which are small and ill-developed. During the first year after birth, the perpendicular and horizontal plates begin to ossify, from a single nucleus, and become joined to the lateral masses about the beginning of the second year. The formation of the ethmoidal cells, which completes the bone, does not commence until about the fourth or fifth year. Articulations.—With fifteen bones : the sphenoid, two sphenoidal turbinated, the frontal, and eleven of the face—the two nasal, two superior maxillary, two lachrymal, two palate, two inferior turbinated, and the vomer. No muscles are attached to this bone. The early stages of the development of the cranium have already been described (see page 85). We have seen that it is formed from a layer of niesoblast, deriA ed from the protovertebral plates of the trunk, which is spread over the whole surface of the rudimen- tary brain. That portion of this la^-er from which the bones of the skull are to be developed consists of a thin, membranous capsule. Ossification connnences in the roof, and is preceded by the deposition of a mem- branous blastema upon the surface of the cerebral capsule, in which the ossifying pro- cess extends; the primitive membranous capsule becomin^^ the internal periosteum, and Fig. 150.—Skull at birth, showing the Fig. 151.—The lateral fontanelles. anterior and posterior fontanelles. being ultimately blended with the dura mater. x\lthough the bones of the vertex of the skull appear before those at the base, and make considerable progress in their ^a-owth, at birth ossification is more advanced in the base, this portion of tlie skull forming a solid, inmiovable groundwork. Before birth, the bones at the vertex and side of the skull are separated from each other by membranous intervals, in which bone is deficient. These intervals are princii)ally found at the four angles of the parietal bones. Hence there are six fontanelles. Then- formation is due to the wave of ossification being circular and the bones quadrilateral ; the ossific matter first meets at the margins of the bones, at the points nearest to their centres of ossification, and vacuities or spaces are left at the angles, which are called fontanelles, so named from the pulsations of the brain, which are perceptible at the Development of the Cranium The Fontanelles