OF THE SPINE 295 covers the upper and under surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae and in which the epiphysial plate develops; and by their circumference are closely connected in front to the anterior, and behind to the posterior common ligament; whilst in the dorsal region they are connected laterally, by means of the interarticular ligament, to the heads of those ribs which articulate with two vertebras; they, consequently, form part of the articular cavities in which the heads of these bones are received. Structure of the Intervertebral Substance.—The intervertebral substance is composed, at its circumference, of laminae of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage ; and, at its centre, of a soft, pulpy, highly elastic substance, of a yellowish colour, which rises up considerably above the surrounding level when the disc is divided horizontally. This pulpy substance, which is especially well developed in the lumbar region, is the remains of the chorda dorsalis, and, according to Luschka, contains a small synovial cavity in its centre. The laminae are arranged concen- trically one within the other, the outermost consisting of ordinary fibrous tissue, but the others and more numerous consisting of white fibro-cartilage. These plates are not quite vertical in their direction, those near the circumference being- curved outwards and closely approximated; whilst those nearest the centre curve in the opposite direction, and are somewhat more widely separated. The fibres of which each plate is composed are directed, for the most part, obliquely from above downwards ; the fibres of adjacent plates passing in opposite directions and varying in every layer; so that the fibres of one layer are directed across those of another, like the limbs of the letter X. This laminar arrangement belongs to about the outer half of each disc. The pulpy substance presents no concentric arrangement, and consists of a fine fibrous matrix, containing angular cells, united to form a reticular structure. 2. Ligaments connecting the LAMiNiE Ligamenta Subflava. The Ligamenta Subflava (fig. 227) are interposed between the laminfe of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. They are most distinct when seen from the interior of the spinal canal; when viewed from the outer surface, they appear short, being overlapped by the laminae. Each ligament consists of two lateral portions, which commence on each side at the root of either articular process, and pass backwards to the point where the laminae converge to form the spinous process, where their margins are in contact and to a certain extent united; slight intervals being left for the passage of small vessels. These ligaments consist of yellow elastic tissue, the fibres of which, almost perpendicular in direction, are attached to the anterior surface of the lamina above, some distance from its inferior margin, and to the posterior surface, as well as to the margin of the lamina below. In the cervical region they are thin in texture, but very broad and long; they become thicker in the dorsal region; and in the lumbar acquire very considerable thickness. Their highly elastic property serves to preserve the upright posture, and to assist in resuming it, after the spine has been flexed. These ligaments do not exist between the occiput and atlas, or between the atlas and axis. 3. Ligaments connecting the Articular Processes Capsular. The Capsular Ligaments (fig. 229) are thin and loose ligamentous sacs, attached to the contiguous margins of the articulating processes of each vertebra, through the greater part of their circumference, and completed internally by the ligamenta subflava. They are longer and looser in the cervical than in the dorsal or lumbar regions. The capsular ligaments are lined on their inner surface by synovial membrane.