941 THE PANCREAS hepatic capillaries, where its onward course is arrested, and where it undergoes develop- ment into the fully formed hydatid. When the gall-hladder is ruptured, or one of its main ducts, which may occur independently of laceration of the liver, the injury is necessarily fatal, from peritonitis caused by the extravasation of bile into the peritoneal cavity. The gall-bladder may become distended with bile in cases of obstruction of its duct or the common bile duct, or from a collection of gall-stones within its interior, thus forming a large tumour. The swelling is pear-shaped, and projects downwards arid forwards to the umbilicus. It moves with respiration, since it is attached to the liver. To relieve this condition, the gall-bladder must be opened and the gall-stones removed. The opera- tion is performed by an incision, two to three inches long in the right semilunar line, commencing an inch below the costal margin. The peritoneal cavity is opened, and the tumour having been found, sponges are packed round it to protect the peritoneal cavity, and it is aspirated. When the contained fluid has been evacuated the flaccid bladder is drawn out of the abdominal woimd and its wall incised to the extent of an inch, any gall-stones in the bladder are now removed and the interior of the sac sponged dry. If the case is one of obstruction of the duct, an attempt must be made to dislodge the'stone by manipulation through the wall of the duct; or it must be crushed from without by carefully padded forceps. After all obstruction has been removed, a drainage tube is to be inserted and the external wound closed around it; the stitches being passed through the parietal peritoneum and also through the peritoneum covering the gall-bladder around the incision, so as to bring these two surfaces into apposition. The fistulous opening generally closes in the course of a few weeks. The Pancreas Dissection.—The pancreas maybe exposed for dissection in three different ways: i. By raising the liver, drawing down the stomach, and tearing through the gastro-hepatic omentum and the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. 2. By raising the stomach, the arch of the colon, and great omentum, and then dividing the inferior layer of the transverse meso-colon and raising the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. 3. By dividing the two layers of peritoneum, which descend from the great curvature of the stomach to form the great omentum; turning the stomach upwards, and then cutting through the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon (see fig. 523, page 899). The Pancreas (Trav-Kpea?, all flesh) is a compound racemose gland, analogous in its structure to the salivary glands, though softer and less compactly arranged than those organs. In shape it is transversely oblong, flattened from before back- wards, and bears some resemblance to a dog's tongue, its right extremity being broad, and presenting a sort of angular bend from above downwards, called the head ; whilst its left extremity gradually tapers to form the tail; the intermediate portion being called the body. It is situated transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, at the back of the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions. Its length varies from six to eight inches, its breadth is an inch and a half, and its thickness from half an inch to an inch, being greater at its right extremity and along its upper border. Its weight varies from two to three and a half ounces, but it may reach six ounces. The right extremity or head of the pa7icreas (fig. 554) is curved upon itself from above downwards, and is embraced by the concavity of the duodenum. The common bile-duct descends behind, between the duodenum and pancreas ; and the pancreatico-duodenal artery descends in front between the same parts. The lesser end or tail of the pancreas is narrow ; it extends to the left as far as the spleen, and is placed over the left kidney and suprarenal capsule. The body of the pancreas is somewhat prismatic in shape and has three surfaces : anterior, posterior, and inferior. The anterior surface is somewhat concave, and is covered by the posterior surface of the stomach, which rests upon it. T\iQ posterioi surface is separated from the vertebral column by the aorta vena cava, the commencement of the vena porta, the pillars of the Diaphragm, and the superior mesenteric artery and vein. These latter vessels are surrounded by a lobular fold of the gland, which passes transversely to the left behind them, and thus these vessels are embraced by the substance of the gland. This portion is sometimes detached from the rest of the organ, and is called the lesser pancreas. To the left of the vertebral column the posterior surface of the pancreas is in