335 CARPO-METACARPAL peculiar movement that the tip of the thumb is opposed to the other digits; for, by shghtly flexing the fingers, the palmar surface of the thumb can be brought in contact with their palmar surfaces one after another. 2. Articulations op the Metacarpal Bones of the Four Inner Fingers with the Carpus The joints formed between the carpus and four inner metacarpal bones are arthrodial joints. The ligaments are Dorsal. Palmar. Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments, the strongest and most distinct, connect the carpal and metacarpal bones on their dorsal surface. The second metacarpal bone receives two fasciculi, one from the trapezium, the other from the trapezoid ; the third metacarpal receives two, one from the trapezoid, and one from the os magnum ; the fourth two, one from the os magnum and one from the unci- Fig. 251.—Vertical section through the articula- form ; the fifth receives a single showing the five synovial fasciculus from the unciform bone, which is continuous with a similar ligament on the palmar surface, forming an incomplete capsule. The Palmar Ligaments have a somewhat similar arrangement on the palmar surface, with the exception of the third metacar- pal, which has three ligaments, an external one from the trape- zium, situated above the sheath of the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis ; a middle one, from the OS magnum ; and an internal one from the unciform. The Interosseous Ligaments consist of short, thick fibres, which are limited to one part of -the carpo-metacarpal articula- tion ; they connect the contigu- ous inferior angles of the os magnum and unciform with the adjacent surfaces of the third and fourth metacarpal bones. The Synovial Membrane is a continuation of that between the two rows of carpal bones. Occasionally, the articulation of the unciform with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones has a separate synovial membrane. The synovial membranes of the wrist and carpus (fig. 251) are thus seen to be five in number. The first, the membrana sacciformis, passes from the lower end of the ulna to the sigmoid cavity of the radius, and lines the upper surface of the interarticular fibro-cartilage. The second passes from the lower end of the radius and interarticular fibro-cartilage above, to the bones of the first row below. The third, the most extensive, passes between the contiguous margins of the two rows of carpal bones ; between the bones of the second row to the carpal extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones. The fourth, from the margin of the trapezium to the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The fifth, between the adjacent margins of the cuneiform and pisiform bones. Actions.—The movement permitted in the carpo-metacarpal articulations of the