OEGANS OF DIGESTION 934 transverse fissure by the lobns cauclatns, and from the longitudinal fissure by the lobulus Spigelii. Lobes.—The lobes of the liver, like the ligaments and fissures, are five in number—the right lobe, the left lobe, the lobus quadratus, the lobulus Spigelii, and the lobus caudatus. The rigJit lobe is much larger than the left; the proportion between them being as six to one. It occupies the right hypochondrium, and is separated from the left lobe, on its upper surface, by the longitudinal ligament; on its under and posterior surfaces by the longitudinal fissure ; and in front by a deep notch. It is of a quadrilateral form, its under surface being marked by three fissures—the transverse fissure, the fissure for the gall-bladder, and the fissure for the inferior vena cava ; and by three shallow impressions, one in front {ivipressio colica), for the hepatic flexure of the colon; and one behind {impixssio renalis), for the right kidney, and one internal, between the last-named and the gall-bladder {impressio duodenalis), for the second part of the duodenum. The left lobe is smaller and more flattened than the right. It is situated in Fig. 548.—Under surface of the liver. (From Ellis.) LOBUS CAUDATUS SUPRARENAL BILE DUCT the epigastric region. Its upper surface is convex ; its under surface is concave, and presents a shallow depression for the stomach (gastric im^jression). This is situated in front of the groove for the oesophagus, and is separated from the longitudinal fissure by a well-marked prominence, the omental tuberosity, which lies against the small omentum and lesser curvature of the stomach. The lobus quadratus, or square lobe, is situated on the under surface of the right lobe, bounded in front by the free surface of the liver; behind, by the transverse fissure; on the right, by the fissure for the gall-bladder; and, on the left, by the umbilical fissure. The lobulus Spigelii projects from the back part of the under surface of the right lobe. It is bounded, in front, by the transverse fissure ; on the right, by the fissure for the vena cava; and, on the left, by the fissure for the ductus venosus. The lobus caudatiis, or tailed lobe, is a small elevation of the hepatic substance, extending obliquely outwards, from the base of the lobulus Spigelii, to the under surface of the right lobe. It separates the right extremity of the transverse fissure from the commencement of the fissure for the inferior vena cava.