GENERAL ANATOMY 38 structure, which is named grey or gelatinous nerve-fibre. This form of nerve-fibre is also found in some of the cerebro-spinal nerves. The grey or vesicular nervous substance is distinguished by its dark reddish- grey colour and soft consistence. It is found in the brain, spinal cord, and various ganglia, intermingled with the fibrous nervous substance, and also in some of the nerves of special sense, and in gangliform enlargements which are found here and there in the course of certain cerebro-spinal nerves. It is composed, as its name implies, of vesicles, or corpuscles, commonly called nerve-cells ox ganglion-corpuscles, containing nuclei and nucleoli; the vesicles, together wdth the blood-vessels, in the vesicular nerve-substance, and the nerve-fibres and vessels in the white nerve- substance, are embedded in a peculiar ground-substance, which was regarded by Kolliker as a modified form of retiform connective tissue. It was named by Virchow neuroglia, and consists of large branched cells, the branches passing in every direction amongst the nerve-tissue, thus holding it and binding it together. It is developed from the epiblast, and contains neither the characteristic fibres nor cells Fig. 46.—Nerve-vesicles from the inner part of the grey matter of the convolutions of the human brain. Magnified 350 times. Nerve-cells : a. Larger, h. Smaller, c. Nerve-fibre with axis- cylinder. of connective tissue, and therefore cannot be regarded as belonging to the true con- nective tissues. Each nerve-cell consists of a finely granular protoplasmic material, of a reddish or yellowish-brown colour, which occasionally presents patches of a deeper tint, caused by the aggregation of pigment-granules (fig. 45). No distinct limiting membrane or cell-wall has been ascertained to exist. The nucleus is, as a rule, a large, well-defined, round, vesicular body, often presenting an intranuclear network, and containing a nucleolus which is peculiarly clear and brilliant. The nerve-corpuscles vary in shape and size; some are small, spherical or ovoid, with generally an even outline, such as those frequently found in the spinal ganglia; others are more or less angular, as in the ganglia of the sympathetic; others, again, are caudate or stellate in shape, and are characterised by their large size and by their having one or more tail-like processes issuing from them, which occa- sionally divide and subdivide into numerous branches (fig. 46). These are found in greatest number in the grey matter of the spinal cord. Still others are flask- shaped, as in the cortex of the cerebellum ; or conical, as in the cerebral convolu- tions. For the most part nerve-cells have one or more processes, and they are distinguished, by the number of these jDrocesses, as unipolar, bipolar, or multi- polar cells. These processes are very delicate, apparently tubular, and contain a