NEEVOUS TISSUE 47 muscular fibre the nerve terminates in a special expansion, called by Kiihne, who first accurately described them, motorial encl-jjlates (fig. 55).* The nerve-fibre, on approaching the muscular fibre, suddenly loses its white matter of Schwann, which abruptly terminates ; the neurilemma becomes continuous with the sarco- lemma of the muscle, and only the axis-cylinder enters the muscular fibre, where it immediately spreads out, ramifying like the roots of a tree, immediately beneath the sarcolemma, and is embedded in a layer of granular matter, containing a number of clear, oblong nuclei, the whole constituting an end-plate from which the contractile wave of the muscular fibre is said to start. The nerves supplying tendons have peculiar nerve-endings, and are especially numerous near the point where the tendon becomes muscular. In this situation spindle-shaped bodies are found, and are known as the organs of Golgi. They are apparently composed of several tendinous bundles, fused into one, into which one or more nerve-fibres pass, and, dividing, spread out between the tendon-bundles. Fig. 55.—Muscular fibres of Lacerta viridis with the terminations of nerves. a. Seen in profile, p p. The nerve-end plates, s s. The base of the plate, consisting of a granular mass with nuclei. 6. The same as seen in looking at a perfectly fresh fibre, the nervous ends being probably still excitable. (The forms of the variously-divided plate can hardly be represented in a woodcut by suflBciently delicate and pale contours to reproduce correctly what is seen in nature.) c. The same as seen two hours after death from poisoning by curare. Nerve-fibres occasionally terminate in tendons as end-bulbs or as small Pacinian corpuscles. The Ganglia may be regarded as separate and independent nervous centres, of smaller size and less complex structure than the brain, connected with each other, with the cerebro-spinal axis, and with the nerves in various situations. They are found on the posterior root of each of the spinal nerves ; on the posterior or sensory root of the fifth cranial nerve ; on the facial and auditory nerves ; on the glosso- pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves; and on the branches of certain spinal nerves. They are also found in a connected series along each side of the vertebral column, forming the trunk of the sympathetic ; and on the branches of that nerve, generally in the plexuses or at the point of junction of two or more nerves with each other, or with branches of the cerebro-spinal system. On section they are seen to consist of a reddish-grey substance, traversed by numerous white nerve- fibres ; they vary considerably in form and size ; the largest are found in the cavity of the abdomen ; the smallest, not visible to the naked eye, exist in consider- able numbers upon the nerves distributed to the difierent viscera. The ganglia are invested by a smooth and firm, closely-adhering, membranous envelope, consisting of dense areolar tissue ; this sheath is continuous with the perineurium of the nerves, and sends numerous processes into the interior of the ganglion, which support the blood-vessels supplying its substance. * They had, however, previously been noticed, though not accurately described, by Boyere, who named them ' nerve-hillocks.'