AKTICULATIONS 334 Actions.—The articulation of the hand and wrist, considered as a whole, is divided into three parts: (i) the radius and the interarticular fibro-cartilage; (2) the meniscus, formed by the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform—the pisiform bone having no essential part in the movements of the hand ; (3) the hand proper, the metacarpal bones with the four carpal bones on which they are supported, viz. the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform. These three elements form two joints: (i) the superior (wrist-joint proper), between the meniscus and bones of the forearm ; (2) the inferior, between the hand and meniscus (transverse or mid-carpal joint). (1) The articulation between the forearm and carpus is a true condyloid arti- culation, and therefore all movements but rotation are permitted. Flexion and extension are the most free, and of these a greater amount of extension than flexion is permitted on account of the articulating surfaces extending further on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect of the carpal bones. In this movement the carpal bones rotate on a transverse axis drawn between the tips of the styloid processes of the radius and ulna. A certain amount of adduction (or ulnar flexion) and abduction (or radial flexion) is also permitted. Of these the former is considerably greater in extent than the latter. In this movement the carpus revolves upon an antero-posterior axis drawn through the centre of the wrist. Finally, circumduction is permitted by the consecutive movements of adduction, extension, abduction, and flexion, with intermediate movements between them. There is no rotation, but this is provided for by the supination and pronation of the radius on the ulna. The movement of flexion is performed by the Flexor carpi radialis, the Flexor carpi ulnaris, and the Palmaris longus ; extension by the Extensor carpi radialis longior et brevior and the Extensor carpi ulnaris ; adduction (ulnar flexion) by the Flexor carpi ulnaris and the Extensor carpi ulnaris ; and ahduction (radial flexion) by the Extensors of the thumb, and the Extensor carpi radialis longior et brevior and the Flexor carpi radialis. (2) The chief movements permitted in the transverse or mid-carpal joint are flexion and extension and a slight amount of rotation. In flexion and extension, which is the movement most freely enjoyed, the trapezium and trapezoid on the radial side and the unciform on the ulnar side glide forwards and backwards on the scaphoid and cuneiform respectively, while the head of the os magnum and the superior surface of the unciform rotate in the cup-shaped cavity of the scaphoid and semilunar. Flexion at this joint is freer than extension. A very trifling amount of rotation is also permitted, the head of the os magnum rotating round a vertical axis drawn through its own centre, while at the same time a slight gliding movement takes place in the lateral portions of the joint. IX. Carpo-metacarpal Articulations I. Articulation of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb with THE Trapezium This is a joint of reciprocal reception, and enjoys great freedom of movement, on account of the configuration of its articular surfaces, which are saddle-shaped, so that, on section, each bone appears to be received into a cavity in the other, according to the direction in which they are cut. Its ligaments are a capsular ligament and a synovial membrane. The Capsular Ligament is a thick but loose capsule, which passes from the circumference of the upper extremity of the metacarpal bone to the rough edge bounding the articular surface of the trapezium ; it is thickest externally and behind, and lined by a separate synovial membrane. Movements.—In the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium, the movements permitted are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction. When the joint is flexed, the metacarpal bone is brought in front of the palm, and the thumb is gradually turned to the fingers. It is by this