PALPEBRAL REGION 371 upper fibres of this portion blend with the Occipito-frontalis and Corrugator super ciUi. Relations.—By its sttp&rficial surface, with the integument. By its deej) surface, above, with the Occipito-frontalis and Corrugator supercilii, with which it is intimately blended, and with the supra-orbital vessels and nerve ; below, it covers the lachrymal sac, and the origin of the Levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, the Levator labii superioris, and the Zygomaticus minor muscles. Inter- nally, it is occasionally blended with the Pyramidalis nasi. Externally, it lies on the temporal fascia. On the eyelids, it is separated from the conjunctiva by the Levator palpebras, the tarsal ligaments, the tarsal plates, and the Meibomian glands. The tendo palijebrarmn (tendo oculi) is a short tendon, about two lines in length and one in breadth, attached to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone in front of the lachrymal groove for the nasal duct. Crossing the lachrymal sac, it divides into two parts, each division being attached to the inner extremity of the corresponding tarsal plate. As the tendon crosses the lachrymal sac, a strong aponeurotic lamina is given off from the posterior surface, which expands over the sac, and is attached to the ridge on the lachrymal bone. This is the reflected aponeurosis of the tendo palpebrarum. Use of Tendo oculi.—Besides giving attachment to part of the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and to the tarsal plates, it serves to suck the tears into the lachrymal sac, by its attachment to the sac. Thus, each time the eyelids are closed, the tendo oculi becomes tightened, and draws the wall of the lachrymal sac outwards and forwards, so that a vacuum is made in the sac, and the tears are sucked along the lachrymal canals into it. The Corrugator supercilii is a small, narrow, pyramidal muscle, placed at the inner extremity of the eye- FiG. 270.—Horner's muscle. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Siu-geons of Enofland.) brow, beneath the Occipito- frontalis and Orbicularis palpebrarum muscles. It arises from the mner ex- HORNER'S MO-SCUE ORBICULARIS PALPEBRARUM PUNCTA . LACHRYMA- its an- the Oc- Orbicu- muscles. \ \ tremity of the superciliary ridge ; from whence its fibres pass upwards and outwards, to be inserted into the under surface of the orbicularis, opposite the middle of the orbital arch. Relations.—By terior surface, with cipito-frontalis and laris palpebrarum By its posterior surface, with the frontal bone and supra- trochlear nerve. The Levator palpebrse will be described with the muscles of the orbital region. The Tensor tarsi (Horner's muscle) (fig. 270) is a small thin muscle, about three lines in breadth and six in length, situated at the inner side of the orbit, behind the tendo oculi. It arises from the crest and adjacent part of the orbital surface of the lachrymal bone, and passing across the lachrymal sac, divides into two slips, which cover the lachrymal canals, and are inserted into the tarsal plates internal to the B B 2 / ORBICUL.°iRlS PALPEBRARUM LEV. LR8.SUR. ALffi-GJUE NASI I