967 CRICOID CARTILAGE EPIGLOTTIS The itpper border of the thyroid cartilage is sinuously curved, being concave at its posterior part, just in front of the superior cornu, then rising into a convex outline, which clips in front to form the sides of a notch in the middle Hne, immediately above the pomum Adami. This border gives attachment throughout its whole extent to the thyro-hyoid membrane. The loiver border is connected to the cricoid cartilage, in the median line, by the crico-thyroid membrane; and, on each side, by the Crico-thyroid muscle. The ^posterior borders, thick and rounded, terminate, above, ^m. 568.—The cartilages of the larynx, in the superior cornua; and, be- Posterior view, low, in the inferior cornua. The two superior cornua are long and narrow, directed upwards, back- wards, and inwards; and ter- minate in a conical extremity, which gives attachment to the thyro-hyoid ligament. The two inferior cornua are short and thick; they pass downwards, with a slight inclination forwards and inwards, and present, on their inner surfaces, a small oval ar- ticular facet for articulation with the side of the cricoid cartilage. The posterior border receives the insertion of the Stylo-pharyn- geus and Palato-pharyngeus muscles on each side. The Cricoid Cartilage is so called from its resemblance to a signet ring (KpUos, a ring). It is smaller, but thicker and stronger than the thyroid carti- lage, and forms the lower and back part of the cavity of the larynx. Its anterior half is narrow, convex, affording attachment in front and at the sides to the Crico-thyroid muscles, and, behind, to part of the Inferior constrictor. Its posterior half is very broad, both from side to side, and from above downwards ; it presents in the middle line a vertical ridge for the attachment of the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus; and on either side a broad depression for the Crico-arytenoideus posticus muscle. At the point of junction of the two halves of the cartilage on either side is a small round elevation, for articulation with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The lotuer border of the cricoid cartilage is horizontal, and connected to the upper ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane. Its upper border is directed obliquely upwards and backwards, owing to the great depth of its posterior surface. It gives attachment, in front, to the crico- Ciuieiform cartilage Cornicula laryngis /\ ARYTENOID Insertion of Crico-arytenoideus posticus et lateralis Arytenoid cartilages, base CRICOID Articular facet for arytenoid cartilage Articular facet for- inferior cornu of thyroid cartilage