THE SCROTUM I02I two lobes, being marked externally by a linear raphe, whilst internally there projects inwards, for a short distance, a thin fibrous septum, more distinct in early life. Structure.—The corpus spongiosum consists of a strong fibrous envelope, enclosing a trabecular structure, which contains in its meshes erectile tissue. The fibrous envelope is thinner, whiter in colour, and more elastic than that of the corpora cavernosa. The trabeculse are dehcate, uniform in size, and the meshes between them small; their long diameter, for the most part, corresponding with that of the penis. The external envelope or outer coat of the corpus spongiosum is formed partly of unstriped muscular fibre, and a layer of the same tissue immediately surrounds the canal of the urethra. The kjmphatics of the penis consist of a superficial and deep set; the former are derived from a dense network on the skin of the glans and prepuce and from the mucous membrane of the urethra, and terminate in the superficial inguinal glands ; the latter emerge from the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum, and, passing beneath the pubic arch, join the deep lymphatics of the pelvis. The nerves are derived from the internal pudic nerve and the pelvic plexus. On the glans and bulb some filaments of the cutaneous nerves have Pacinian bodies connected with them, and, according to Krause, many of them terminate in a peculiar form of end-bulb. Surgical Anatomy.—The penis occasionally requires removal for malignant disease. Usually, removal of the ante-scrotal portion is all that is necessary, but sometimes it is re- quisite to remove the whole organ from its attachment to the rami of the os pubis and ischium. The former operation is performed either b.y cutting off the whole of the anterior part of the penis with one sweep of the knife ; or, what is better, cutting through the corpora cavernosa from the dorsum, and then separating the corpus spongiosum from them, dividing it at a level nearer the glans penis. The mucous membrane of the urethra is then slit up, and the edges of the flap attached to the external skin, in order to prevent contraction of the orifice, which would otherwise take place. The vessels which require ligature are the two dorsal arteries of the penis, the arteries of the corpora cavernosa, and the artery of the septum. When the entire organ requires removal, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and an incision is made round the root of the penis, and carried down the median line of the scrotum as far as the perinaeum. The two halves of the scrotum sire then separated from each other, and a catheter having been introduced into the bladder as a guide, the membranous portion of the urethra in front of the triangular ligament is separated from the corpora cavernosa and divided, the ca.theter having been withdrawn, just behind the bulb. The suspensory ligament is now severed, and the crura separated from the bone with a periosteum scraper, and the whole penis removed. The membranous portion of the urethra, which has not been removed, is now to be attached to the skin at the posterior extremity of the incision in the perinteum. The remainder of the wound is to be brought together, free drainage being provided for. The Testes and their Coverings (fig. 607) The Testes are two small glandular organs, which secrete the semen; they are situated in the scrotum, being suspended by the spermatic cords. At an early period of foetal life the testes are contained in the abdominal cavity, behind the peritoneum. Before birth they descend to the inguinal canal, along which they pass with the spermatic cord, and, emerging at the external abdominal ring, they descend into the scrotum, becoming invested in their course by numerous coverings derived from the serous, muscular, and fibrous layers of the abdominal parietes, as well as by the scrotum. The coverings of the testis are—the 1 Scrotum. JJartos 1 Intercolumnar, or External spermatic fascia. Cremasteric fascia. Infundibuliform, or Fascia propria (Internal spermatic fascia). Tunica vaginalis. The Scrotum is a cutaneous pouch which contains the testes and part of the spermatic cords. It is divided into two lateral halves by a median line, or m2)lie,