SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PANCREAS 943 however, in certain particulars, and is looser and softer in its texture. It is not enclosed in a distinct capsule, but is surrounded by areolar tissue, which dips down into its interior, and connects together the various lobules of which it is composed. Each lobule, like the lobules of the salivary glands, consists of one of the ultimate ramifications of the main duct, terminating in a number of cascal pouches or acini. The minute ducts are lined by short columnar epithelium, shorter than that found in the salivary ducts. The acini are wavy and convoluted, and are also lined by columnar cells, which present certain characteristics; each cell shows an outer homogeneous, or faintly striated, portion, which becomes deeply stained with dyes, and contains the nucleus, and an inner granular portion which does not easily stain. The lumen of the alveolus is hardly visible, being filled with an interstitial substance containing spindle-shaped cells, the ceiitro-acinarlcells of Langerhans. Fig. 555.—Transverse section through the middle of the first lumbar vertebra, showing the relations of the pancreas. (Branne.) Vessels and Nerves.— The arteries 0/ the imncreas are derived from the splenic and the pancreatico-duodenal branches of the hepatic and the superior mesenteric. Its veins open into the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its lymj^hatics terminate in the lumbar glands. Its nerves are filaments from the splenic plexus. Surface Form.—The pancreas lies in front of the first lumbar vertebra, and can some- times be felt, in emaciated subjects, when the stomach and colon are empty, by making deep pressure in the middle line about three inches above the umbilicus. Surgical Anatomy.—The pancreas presents but little of surgical importance. It is occasionally the seat of cancer, which usually affects the head or duodenal end, and therefore often speedily involves the common bile duct, leading to persistent jaundice. 03-sts are also occasionally found in it, which may present in the epigastric region, above and to the right of the umbilicus, and may require opening and draining. The fluid in them contains some of the elements of the pancreatic secretion and is very irritating, so that, if allowed to come in contact with the skin of the abdominal wall, it is likely to produce intractable eczema. It has been said that the pancreas is the only abdominal viscus which has never been found in a hernial protrusion; but even this organ has been found, in company with other viscera, in rare cases of diaphragmatic hernia. The pancreas has been known to become invaginated into the intestine, and portions of the organ have sloughed off. In cases of excision of the pylorus great care must be exercised