SPINAL NERVES 8o6 breadth, and is the continuation of the lower part of the sacral plexus. It passes out of the i^elvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the Pyriformis muscle. It descends between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium, along the back part of the thigh to about its lower third, where it divides into two large branches, the internal and external j^ojjliteal nerves. This division may take place at any point between the sacral plexus and the lower third of the thigh. When the division occurs at the plexus, the two nerves descend together, side by side ; or they may be separated, at their commencement, by the interposition of part or the whole of the Pyriformis muscle. As the nerve descends along the back of the thigh, it rests at first upon the External rotator muscles, in company with the small sciatic nerve and artery, being covered by the Gluteus maximus; lower down, it lies upon the Adductor magnus, and is covered by the long head of the Biceps. The branches of the nerve, before its division, are articular and muscular. The articular branches arise from the upper part of the nerve ; they supply the hip-joint, perforating its fibrous capsule posteriorly. These branches are some- times derived from the sacral plexus. The muscular branches are distributed to the Flexors of the leg: viz. the Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semimembranosus, and a branch to the Adductor magnus. These branches are given off beneath the Biceps muscle. The Internal Popliteal Nerve, the larger of the two terminal branches of the great sciatic, descends along the back part of the thigh, through the middle of the popliteal space to the lower part of the Popliteus muscle, where it passes with the artery beneath the arch of the Soleus, and becomes the posterior tibial. It is overlapped by the hamstring muscles above, and then becomes more superficial, and lies to the outer side of, and some distance from, the popliteal vessels ; opposite the knee-joint, it is in close relation with the vessels, and crosses to the inner side of the artery. Below, it is overlapped by the Gastrocnemius. The branches of this nerve are, articular, muscular, and a cutaneous branch the communicans jjo^litei nerve. The articular branches, usually three in number, supply the knee-joint; two of these branches accompany the superior and inferior internal articular arteries ; and a third, the azygos articular artery. The muscular branches, four or five in number, arise from the nerve as it lies between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle ; they supply that muscle, the Plantaris, Soleus, and Popliteus. The filaments which supply the Popliteus turn round its lower border and are distributed to its deep surface. The communicans poplitei descends between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle, and, about the middle of the back of the leg, pierces the deep fascia, and joins a communicating branch {communicans 2^eronei) from the external popliteal nerve to form the external, or short, saphenous (fig. 470). The external saphenous nerve, formed by the cutaneous branches of the internal and external popliteal nerves, passes downwards and outwards near the outer margin of the tendo Achillis, lying close to the external saphenous vein, to the interval between the external malleolus and the os calcis. It winds round the outer malleolus, and is distributed to the integument along the outer side of the foot and little toe, communicating on the dorsum of the foot with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. In the leg, its branches communicate with those of the small sciatic. The Posterior Tibial Nerve (fig. 471) commences at the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, and passes along the back part of the leg with the posterior tibial vessels to the interval between the inner malleolus and the heel, where it divides into the external and internal plantar nerves. It lies upon the deep muscles of the leg, and is covered in the upper part by the muscles of the calf, lower down by the skin and fascia. In the upper part of its course, it lies to the inner side of the posterior tibial artery ; but it soon crosses that vessel, and lies to its outer side as far as the ankle. In the lower third of the leg, it is placed parallel Avith the inner margin of the tendo Achillis.