493 GLUTEAL REGION Fig. 328.—Dissection of lower extremity. Posterior view. Dissection of gluteal region Dissection (fif^. 328).—The subject should be turned on its face, a block placed beneath the pelvis to make the biittocks tense, and the limbs allowed to han<>- over the end of the table, with the foot inverted, and the thigh abducted. Make an incision through the integument along the crest of the ilium to the middle of the sacnun and thence downwards to the tip of the qoqc\\, and carry a second incision from that point oblicpiely downwards and outwards to the outer side of the thigh, four inches below the great trochanter. The portion of integument included between these incisions is to be removed in the direction shown in the figure. The Gluteus maximus (fig. 329), the most superficial muscle in the gluteal region, is a very broad and thick fleshy mass, of a quadrilateral shape, which forms the prominence of the nates. Its large size is one of the most characteristic points in the muscular system in man, connected as it is with the power he has of maintaining the trunk in the erect posture. In structure the muscle is remarkably coarse, being made up of muscular fasciculi lying parallel with one another, and collected together into large bundles, separated by deep cellular intervals. It arises from the superior curved line of the ilium, and the portion of bone, including the crest, immediately behind it; from the posterior surface of the lower part of the sacrum, the side of the coccyx, the aponeu- rosis of the Erector spin^e muscle, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The fibres are directed obliquely downwards and outwards ; those forming the upper and larger portion of the muscle (after converging somewhat) terminate in a thick tendinous lamina, which passes across the great trochanter, and is inserted into the fascia lata covering the outer side of the thigh, the lower portion of the muscle being inserted into the rough line leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera bet-ween the Vastus ex- ternus and Adductor magnus. Three synovial bitrscs are usually found in relation with this muscle. One of these, of large size, and generally multilocular, separates it from the great trochanter. A second, often wanting, is situated on the tuberosity of the ischium. A third is found between the tendon of this muscle and the Vastus externus. Relations.—By its superficicd surface, with a thin fascia, Avhich separates it from the subcutaneous tissue. By its deep sur- face, from above down^vards, with the ilium, sacrum, coccyx, and great sacro-sciatic liga- ment, part of the Gluteus medius, Pyri- formis, Gemelli, Obturator internus, Quad- ratus femoris, the tuberosity of the ischium, great trochanter, the origin of the Biceps, Semitendinosus, Semimembranosus, and Adductor magnus muscles. The gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve are seen issuing from the pelvis above the Pyriformis muscle, the sciatic and internal pudic vessels and nerves, and muscular branches from the sacral plexus border is thin, and connected with the Gluteus medius by loioer border is free and prominent. Dissection.—Xow divide the Gluteus carried from its upper to its lower border ; 3. Back of thigh 2. Popliteal space Back of leg 5. Sole of foot below it. Its upper the fascia lata. Its maxunus near its origin, by a vertical incision a cellular interval will be exposed, separating