THE SPLEEN 947 diameter. They are merely local expansions or hyperplasia of the lymphoid tissue, of which the external coat of the smaller arteries of the spleen is formed. They are most frequently found surrounding the arteriole, which thus seems to tunnel them, but occasionally they grow from one side of the vessel only, and present the appearance of a sessile bud growing from the arterial wall. Klein, however, denies this, and says it is incorrect to describe the Malpighian bodies as isolated masses of adenoid tissue, but that they are always Fig. 558.—Part of a Malpighian cap- sule of the spleen of man. (Klein and Xoble Smith.) formed around an artery, though there is b Ade- generally a greater amount on one side than the other, and that, therefore, in transverse sections, the artery, in the majority of cases, is .found in an eccentric position. These bodies are visible to the naked eye on the surface of a fresh section of the organ, ap- pearing as minute dots of a semi-opaque whitish colour in the dark substance of the pulp. In minute structure they resemble the adenoid tissue of lymphatic glands, con- sisting of a delicate reticulum, in the meshes of which lie ordinary lymphoid cells. The reticulum of the tissue is made up of extremely delicate fibrils, and is comparatively open in the centre of the corpuscle, becoming closer at the peri^Dhery of the body. The cells which it encloses, like the supporting cells of the pulp, are possessed of amoeboid movements, but when treated mth carmine become deeply stained, and can thus easily be recognised from those of the pulp. The arterioles terminate in capillaries, which traverse the pulp in all directions ; their walls become much attenuated, lose their tubular character, and the cells of the lymphoid tissue of which they are composed become altered, presenting a a. Arterial brancli in longitudinal section. uoid tissue, stiU containing the lymph-corpus- cles; only their nuclei are shown, c. Adenoid reticulum, the lymph-corpuscles accidentally removed. Fig. 559.—Section of spleen, showing the termination of the small blood-vessels. Siqyporting cell Vessel undergoing lymjjlwid change T essel continuous tr/tJi jjrocesses of viqiportiiHj cells Small, artery Supjwrting cell branched appearance, and acquiring processes which are directly connected with the processes of the sustentacular cells of the pulp (fig. 559). In this manner the capillary vessels terminate, and the blood flowing through them finds its way into the interstices of the reticulated tissue formed by the branched connective-tissue corpuscles of the splenic pulp. Thus the blood passing through the spleen is brought into intimate relation with the elements of the pulp, and no doubt under- goes important changes. After these changes have taken place the blood is collected from the interstices 3 P 2