BASE OF THE SKULL i8S Behind the nasal fossae in the middle line is the basilar surface of the occipital bone, presenting in its centre the pharyngeal spine for the attachment of the Superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, with depressions on each side for the insertion of the Rectus capitis anticus major and minor. At the base of the external pterygoid plate is the foramen ovale; behind this, the foramen spinosum, and the prominent spinous process of the sphenoid, which gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw and the Tensor palati muscle. External to the spinous process is the glenoid fossa, divided into two parts by the Glaserian fissure (page 145), the anterior portion concave, smooth, bounded in front by the eminentia articularis, and serving for the articulation of the condyle of the lower jaw ; the posterior portion rough, bounded behind by the tympanic plate, and ser\dng for the reception of part of the parotid gland. Emerging from between the laminae of the vaginal process of the tympanic plate is the styloid process ; and at the base of this process is the stylo-mastoid foramen, for the exit of the facial nerve, and entrance of the stylo-mastoid artery. External to the stylo-mastoid foramen is the auricular fisstire toT the auricular branch of the pneumogastric, bounded behind by the mastoid process. Upon the inner side of the mastoid process is a deep groove, the digastric fossa ; and a little more internally, the occipital groove, for the occipital artery. At the base of the internal pterygoid plate is a large and somewhat triangular aperture, the foramen lacerum medium, bounded in front by the great wing of the sphenoid, behind by the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and internally by the body of the sphenoid and basilar process of the occipital bone : it presents in front the posterior orifice of the Vidian canal; behind, the aperture of the carotid canal. The basilar surface of this opening is filled up in the recent state by a fibro-cartilaginous substance; across its upper or cerebral aspect pass the internal carotid artery and Vidian nerve. External to this aperture, the petro-splienoidal suture is observed, at the outer termination of which is seen the orifice of the canal for the Eustachian tube, and that for the Tensor tympani muscle. Behind this suture is seen the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, presenting, from within outwards, the quadrilateral, rough surface, part of which affords attachment to the Levator palati and Tensor tympani muscles ; external to this surface the orifices of the carotid canal and the aquae- ductus cochleffi, the former transmitting the internal carotid artery and the ascend- ing branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, the latter serving for the passage of a small artery and vein to the cochlea. Behind the carotid canal is a large aperture, the jugular fossa, formed in front by the petrous portion of the temporal, and behind by the occipital; it is generally larger on the right than on the left side, and is divided into three compartments by processes of dura mater. The anterior is for the passage of the inferior petrosal sinus ; the posterior for the lateral sinus and some meningeal branches from the occipital and ascending pharyngeal arteries ; the central one for the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves. On the ridge of bone dividing the carotid canal from the jugular fossa is the small foramen for the transmission of Jacobson's nerve; and on the outer wall of the jugular foramen, near the root of the styloid process, is the small aperture for the transmission of Arnold's nerve. Behind the basilar surface of the occipital bone is the foramen magnum, bounded on each side by the condyles, rough internally for the attachment of the check or odontoid ligaments, and presenting externally a rough surface, the jugular process, which serves for the attachment of the Rectus capitis lateralis muscle and the lateral occipito-atloid ligament. On either side of each condyle anteriorly is anterior condyloid fossa, perforated by the anterior condyloid foramen, for the passage of the hypoglossal nerve and a meningeal artery. Behind each condyle is the posterior condyloid fossa, perforated on one or both sides by the posterior condyloid foramina, for the transmission of a vein to the lateral sinus. Behind the foramen magnum is the external occipital crest, terminating above at the external occipital pjrotuherance whilst on each side are seen the superior and inferior curved lines ; these, as well