ARTICULATIONS 3o6 The Anterior Costo-transverse Ligament [superior or long) consists of two sets of fibres : the one is attached below to the sharp crest on the upper border of the neck of each rib, and passing obhquely upwards and outwards, to the lower border of the transverse ]3rocess immediately above ; the other is attached below to the neck of the rib, and passes upwards and inwards to the base of the transverse process and border of the lower articular process of the vertebra above. This ligament is in relation, in front, with the intercostal vessels and nerves; behind, with the Longissimus dorsi. Its internal border completes an aperture formed between it and the articular processes, through which pass the posterior branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves. Its external border is continuous with a thin aponeurosis, which covers the External intercostal muscle. The first rib has no anterior costo-transverse hgament. The Middle Costo-transverse or Interosseous Ligament consists of short but strong fibres, which pass between the rough surface on the posterior part of the neck of each rib and the anterior surface of the adjacent transverse process. In Fig. 236.—Costo-transverse articulation. Seen from above. order fully to expose this ligament, a horizontal section should be made across the transverse process and corresponding part of the rib ; or the rib may be forcibly separated from the transverse process, and its fibres put on the stretch. In the eleventh and tioelfth ribs this ligament is quite rudimentary or wanting. The Posterior Costo-transverse Ligament is a short but thick and strong fasciculus, which passes obliquely from the summit of the transverse process to the rough non-articular portion of the tubercle of the rib. This ligament is shorter and more oblique in the upper than in the lower ribs. Those corresponding to the superior ribs ascend, while those of the inferior ribs descend slightly. In the eleventh and tioelfth ribs this ligament is wanting. The Capsular Ligament is a thin, membranous sac attached to the circum- ference of the articular surfaces, and enclosing a small synovial membrane. In the eleve7ith and tioelfth ribs this ligament is absent. Actions.—The heads of the ribs are so closely connected to the bodies of the verte- brae by the stellate and interarticular ligaments, and the necks and tubercles of the ribs to the transverse processes, that only a shght ghding movement of the articular surfaces on each other can take place in these articulations. The result of this gliding movement is an elevation of the front and middle portion of the rib, the