SPINAL NEKVES 798 brevis and Pectinens, and receives a communicating branch from the accessory obtm'ator nerve. Occasionally the communicating branch to the internal cutaneous and internal saphenous nerves is continued down, as a cutaneous branch, to the thigh and leg. When this is so, this occasional cutaneous branch emerges from beneath the lower border of the Adductor longus, descends along the posterior margin of the Sartorius to the inner side of the knee, where it pierces the deep fascia, communicates with the long saphenous nerve, and is distributed to the integument of the inner side of the leg as low down as its middle. When this communicating branch is small, its place is supplied by the internal cutaneous nerve. The posterior branch of the obturator nerve pierces the Obturator externus, sending branches to supply it, and passes behind the Adductor brevis on the front of the Adductor magnus, where it divides into numerous muscular branches, which supply the Adductor magnus, and occasionally the Adductor brevis. One of the branches gives off a filament to the knee-joint. The articular branch for the knee-joint perforates the lower part of the Adductor magnus, and enters the popliteal space ; it then descends upon the popliteal artery, as far as the back part of the knee-joint, where it perforates the posterior ligament, and is distributed to the synovial membrane. It gives filaments to the artery in its course. Accessory Obturator Nerve (fig. 465) is not constantly present. It is of small size, and arises by separate filaments from the third and fourth lumbar nerves. It descends along the inner border of the Psoas muscle, crosses the horizontal ramus of the os pubis, and passes under the outer border of the Pectineus muscle, where it divides into numerous branches. One of these supplies the Pectineus, penetrating its under surface ; another is distributed to the hip-joint ; while a third communicates with the anterior branch of the obturator nerve. When this nerve is absent, the hip-joint receives two branches from the obturator nerve. Occasionally it is very small, and becomes lost in the capsule of the hip-joint. The Anterior Crural Nerve (figs. 465, 467) is the largest branch of the lumbar plexus. It supplies muscular branches to the Iliacus, Pectineus, and all the muscles on the front of the thigh, excepting the Tensor vaginae femoris ; cutaneous filaments to the front and inner side of the thigh, and to the leg and foot; and articular branches to the hip and knee. It arises from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves. It descends through the fibres of the Psoas muscle, emerging from it at the lower part of its outer border ; and passes down between it and the Iliacus, and beneath Poupart's ligament, into the thigh, where it becomes somewhat flattened, and divides into an anterior part, which passes superficial to the external circumflex vessels, and a posterior part which passes beneath these vessels. Under Poupart's ligament, it is separated from the femoral artery by the Psoas muscle, and lies beneath the iliac fascia. Within the ijclvis the anterior crural nerve gives off from its outer side some small branches to the Iliacus, aftd a branch to the femoral artery, which is distri- buted upon the upper part of that vessel. The origin of this branch varies: it occasionally arises higher than usual, or it may arise lower down in the thigh. External to the i:)elvis the following branches are given off:— From the Anterior Divisioji From the Posterior Division Middle cutaneous. Long saphenous. Internal cutaneous. Muscular. Articular. The middle cutaneous nerve (fig. 466) pierces the fascia lata (generally the Sartorius also) about three inches below Poupart's ligament, and divides into two | branches, which descend in immediate proximity along the fore part of the thigh, I distributing numerous branches to the integument as low as the front of the j knee, where it communicates with the nervus cutaneus j^atellce, a branch of the 1 internal saphenous nerve, helping to form the patellar plexus. Its outer branch J