731 CEREBELLUM The white matter includes two varieties of nerve matter: (i) the pechmcular fibres, which are directly continuous with the fibres of the peduncles of the cerebellum ; (2) the fibres (fibrce proprice) proper to the cerebellum itself. The peduncles of the cerebellum—superior, middle, and inferior—serve to connect it with the rest of the encephalon. The superior pedimcles (processus e cerebello ad testes) arise from the middle of the white matter of the cerebral hemispheres; they run beneath the testes of the corpora quadrigemina and, emerging at its posterior border, pass outwards and backwards to the cerebellum. Each peduncle forms the upper part of the lateral boundary of the fourth ventricle, and is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by the valve of Vieussens. Beneath the corpora quadrigemina the innermost fibres of each peduncle decussate with each other, so that some fibres from the one half of the cerebrum are continued into the other half of the cerebellum. Upon entering the cerebellum the fibres of this peduncle pass to a great extent into the interior of the corpus dentatum, though some wind round it and reach the grey cortical matter, especially on its inferior surface. The valve of Vieussens, or superior medullary velum, is a thin translucent lamina of white matter, marked superficially by a few transverse streaks of grey substance, stretched between the two processus e cerebello ad testes ; it forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle. It is narrow in front, where it is connected with the testes ; and broader behind, at its connection with the vermiform process of the cerebellum. A slight elevated ridge, the frcenulum, descends upon the upper part of the valve from the corpora quadrigemina, and on either side of it may be seen the fourth nerve, which is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by a transverse band of fibres forming a partial decussation. Its lower half is covered by a thin, transversely-grooved lobule of grey matter prolonged from the anterior border of the cerebellum; this is called the lingula. The middle peduncles [processus ad pontem), the largest of the three, connect together the two hemispheres of the cerebellum, forming their great transverse commissure. They consist of a mass of curved fibres, which arise in the grey matter of the foliated cortex of the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and pass across the pons Varolii, forming its transverse fibres. The inferior peduncles (processus ad medullam) connect the cerebellum with the medulla oblongata. As the restiform bodies, they pass upwards and outwards, forming part of the lateral wall of the fourth ventricle; entering the cerebellum, they end in the grey cortex of the upper surface of this organ. TYiQ fibrcB propricB of the cerebellum are of two kinds: (i) commissural fibres, which cross the middle line to connect the opposite halves of the hemispheres, some at the anterior part, and others at the posterior part of the vermiform process ; (2) arcuate or association fibres, which connect one lamina with another, arching across the fissures betAveen the laminae. The grey matter of the cerebellum is found in two situations : (i) on the surface, forming the cortex ; (2) as independent masses in the interior. I. The grey matter of the cortex presents a characteristic foliated appearance, due to the series of laminae which are given off from the central white matter; these laminae give off secondary laminae which are covered with grey matter. This arrangement gives to the cut surface of the organ a foliated appearance, to which the name arbor vitce has been applied (fig. 435). Externally the cortex is covered by pia mater, and internally is the medullary centre consisting mainly of nerve- fibres. Microscopical appearance of the cortex.—The cortex presents a remarkable structure, consisting of two distinct layers, viz. an external grey or cellular layer and an internal rust-coloured granular layer. Between the two layers, or rather situated in the deepest part of the grey or cellular layer, is an incomplete stratum of the characteristic cells of the cerebellum, the corpuscles of Purkinje. The external grey or cellular layer (fig. 436) consists of a transparent tissue- like neuroglia, containing fibres and cells. The fibres are delicate fibrillae running