BASE OF THE BRAIN The olfactory tract, with its bulb, is seen on each side of the longitudinal fissure upon the under surface of each frontal lobe. The fissure of Sylvius separates the frontal from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and lodges the middle cerebral artery. It begins at the outer side of a depression, at the bottom of which is the anterior perforated space. This depression is called the vallecula Sylvii. At its commencement is seen a point of medullary substance, corresponding to a subjacent band of white fibres, connecting the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes, and called the fasciculus unciformis. On following this fissure outwards, it divides into two branches, enclosing portions of the frontal and parietal lobes, which overhang and cover the upper part of a prominent cluster of isolated convolutions called the island of Beil or central lobe. The overhanging portion of the frontal and parietal lobe is called the opercuhmi of the insula. The anterior perforated space is situated at the inner side of the fissure of Sylvius. It is of a triangular shape, bounded, in front, by the orbital convolutions of the frontal lobe and the roots of the olfactory tract; behind, by the optic tract; externally, by the temporo-sphenoidal lobe and commencement of the fissure of Sylvius; internally, it is continuous with the lamina cinerea, and crossed by the peduncle of the corpus callosum. It is of a greyish colour, and corresponds to the under surface of the corpus striatum, a large mass of grey matter, situated in the interior of the brain ; it has received its name from being perforated by numerous minute apertures for the transmission of small straight vessels into the substance of the corpus striatum, constituting the antero-median and antero-lateral ganglionic branches of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. The optic commissure is situated in the middle line, immediately in front of the tuber cinereum and below the lamina cinerea.* It is the point of junction between the two optic nerves. Immediately behind the diverging optic tracts, and between them and the peduncles of the cerebrum {crura cerebri), is a lozenge-shaped interval, the inter- peduncular space, in which are found the following parts : the tuber cinereum, infundibulum, pituitary body, corpora albicantia, and the posterior perforated space. The tuber cinereum is an eminence of grey matter, situated between the optic tracts and the corpora albicantia; it is connected with the surrounding parts of the cerebrum, forms part of the floor of the third ventricle, and is continuous with the grey substance in that cavity. From the middle of its under surface a conical tubular process of grey matter, about two lines in length, is continued downwards and forwards, to be attached to the posterior lobe of the pituitary body : this is the infundibulum. Its canal, which is funnel-shaped, communicates with the third ventricle. The pituitary body [hypophysis cerebri) is a small reddish-grey vascular mass, weighing from five to ten grains, and of an oval form, situated in the sella Turcica, in connection with which it is retained by a process of dura mater derived from the inner wall of the cavernous sinus. This process covers in the pituitary fossa, enclosing the pituitary body, and having a small hole in its centre through which the infundibulum passes. Structure.—The pituitary body is very vascular, and consists of two lobes, separated from one another by a fibrous lamina. Of these, the anterior is the larger, of an oblong form, and somewhat concave behind, where it receives the posterior lobe, which is round. The two lobes differ both in development and structure. The anterior lobe, of a dark, yellowish-grey colour, is developed from the ectoderm of the buccal cavity, and resembles to a considerable extent, in micro- scopic structure, the thyroid body. It consists of a number of isolated vesicles and slightly convoluted alveoli, lined by epithelium and united together by connective tissue. The epithelium is columnar and occasionally ciliated. The alveoli some- times contain a colloid material, similar to that found in the thyroid body, and * That is to say, the commissure is superficial to the lamina in the order of dissection when the base is uppermost.