TEINS 632 The Deep Veins accompany the arteries, and are usually enclosed in the same sheath with those vessels. With the smaller arteries—as the radial, ulnar, brachial, tibial, peroneal—they exist generally in pairs, one lying on each side of the vessel, and are called vence comites. The larger arteries—as the axillary, subclavian, pophteal, and femoral—have usually only one accompanying vein. In certain organs of the body, however, the deep veins do not accompany the arteries ; for instance, the veins in the skull and spinal canal, the hepatic veins in the liver, and the larger veins returning blood from the osseous tissue. Sinuses are venous channels, which, in their structure and mode of distribution, differ altogether from the veins. They are found only in the interior of the skull, and are formed by a separation of the layers of the dura mater; their outer coat consisting of fibrous tissue, their inner of an endothelial layer continuous with the lining membrane of the veins. Veins have thinner walls than arteries, the difference in thickness being due to the small amount of elastic and muscular tissues which the veins contain. The superficial veins usually have thicker coats than the deep veins, and the veins of the lower limb are thicker than those of the upper. The minute structure of these vessels has been described in the section on General Anatomy. THE PULMONAEY VEINS The Pulmonary Veins return the arterial blood from the lungs to the left auricle of the heart. They are four in number, two for each lung. The pulmonary differ from other veins in several respects:—i. They carry arterial instead of venous blood. 2. They are destitute of valves. 3. They are only slightly larger than the arteries they accompany. 4. They accompany those vessels singly. They commence in a capillary network, upon the walls of the air-cells, where they are continuous with the ramifications of the pulmonary artery, and, uniting together, form a single trunk for each lobule. These branches, uniting successively, form a single trunk for each lobe, three for the right, and two for the left lung. The vein from the middle lobe of the right lung unites with that from the upper lobe, in most cases, forming two trunks on each side, which open separately into the left auricle. Occasionally, they remain separate; there are then three veins on the right side. Not unfrequently, the two left pulmonary veins terminate by a common opening. TFithin the lung, the branches of the pulmonary artery are in front, the veins behind, and the bronchi heticeen the two. At the root of the lung, the veins are in front, the artery in the middle, and the bronchus heliind. Within the pericardium, their anterior surface is invested by the serous layer of this membrane. The right pulmonary veins pass behind the right auricle and ascending aorta; the left pass in front of the thoracic aorta, with the left pulmonary artery. THE SYSTEMIC VEINS The systemic veins iriay be arranged into three groups :—i. Those of the head and neck, upper extremity, and thorax, which terminate in the superior vena cava. 2. Those of the lower limb, pelvis, and abdomen, which terminate in the inferior vena cava. 3. The cardiac veins, which open directly into the right auricle of the heart. Veins of the Head and Neck The veins of the head and neck may be subdivided into three groups :—-i. The veins of the exterior of the head and face. 2. The veins of the neck. 3. The veins of the diploe and interior of the cranium.