566 AETERIES vertebral, and sends one or two branches into the spinal canal through the inter- vertebral foramina to be distributed to the spinal cord and its membranes, and to the bodies of the vertebrae in the same manner as the lateral spinal branches from the vertebral. It anastomoses with the ascending pharyngeal artery. The muscular branches supply the depressors of the hyoid bone, the Longus colli, the Scalenus anticus, and the Inferior constrictor of the pharynx. Surgical Anato?ny.—This artery is sometimes tied, in conjunction with the superior thyroid, in cases of bronchocele. An incision is made along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid down to the clavicle. After the deep fascia has been divided, the Sterno- mastoid and carotid vessels are drawn outwards, and the carotid (Chassaignac's) tubercle sought for. The vessel will be found just below this tubercle, between the carotid sheath on the outer side and the trachea and oesophagus on the inner side. In passing the ligature, great care must be exercised to avoid including the recmTent laryngeal nerve. The Suprascapular Artery (transversalis humeri), smaller than the transversalis coin, passes obhquely from within outwards, across the root of the neck. It at first lies on the lower part of the Scalenus anticus, being covered by the Sterno- mastoid; it then crosses Fig. 361.—The scapular and circumflex arteries. subclavian artery, and runs outwards behind and Posterior scapular . . ,, ^ ^ ^ -, . ■, » Acromial branch parallel With the clavicle and Subclavius muscle, and beneath the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, to the superior border of the scapula, where it passes over the transverse liga- ment of the scapula, to the supraspinous fossa. In this situation it lies close to the bone, and ramifies between it and the Supra- spinatus muscle, to which it is mainly distributed, giving off a communicating branch, which crosses the neck of the scapula, to reach the infraspinous fossa, where it anastomoses with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. Besides distributing branches to the Sterno-mastoid and neighbouring muscles, it gives off a supra-acro7nial branch, which, piercing the Trapezius muscle, supplies the cutaneous surface of the acromion, anastomosing with the acromial thoracic artery. As the artery passes over the transverse ligament of the scapula, a branch descends into the subscapular fossa, ramifies beneath that muscle, and anastomoses with the posterior and subscapular arteries. It also supplies the shoulder-joint, and a nutrient branch to the clavicle. The Transversalis Colli passes transversely outwards, across the upper part of the subclavian triangle, to the anterior margin of the Trapezius muscle, beneath which it divides into two branches, the superficial cervical, and the posterior scapular. In its passage across the neck, it crosses in front of the Scaleni muscles and the brachial plexus, between the divisions of which it sometimes passes, and is covered by the Platysma, Sterno-mastoid, Omo-hyoid, and Trapezius muscles. The superficial cervical ascends beneath the anterior margin of the Trapezius, distributing branches to it, and to the neighbouring muscles and glands in the neck, and anastomoses with the superficial branch of the arteria princeps cervicis. The posterior scapular, the continuation of the transversalis colli, passes