873 SURGICAL ANATOMY whole of the canal and membrana tympani can be brought into view. The points to be noted are, the presence of wax or foreign bodies ; the size of the canal; and the condition of the membrana tympani. The accumulation of wax is often the cause of deafness, and may give rise to very serious consequences, causing ulceration of the membrane and even absorp- tion of the bony wall of the canal. Foreign bodies are not infrequently introduced into the ear by children, and, when situated in the first portion of the canal, may be removed with tolerable facility by means of a minute hook or loop of fine Avire, with reflected light; but when they have slipped beyond the narrow middle part of the meatus, their removal is in no wise easy, and attempts to effect it, in inexperienced hands, may be followed by destruction of the membrana tympani and possibly the contents of the tympanum. The calibre of the external auditory canal may be narrowed by inflammation of its lining membrane, running on to suppuration ; by periostitis; by polypi, sebaceous tumours, and exostoses. The membrana tympani, when seen in a healthy ear, ' reflects light strongly, and, owing to its peculiar curvature, presents a bright spot of triangular shape at its lower and anterior portion.' From the apex of this, proceeding upwards and slightly forwards, is a white streak formed by the handle of the malleus, while at the upper and middle part of the membrane may be seen a slight projection, caused by the short process of the malleus. In disease, alterations in colour, lustre, curvature or inclination, and perforation must be noted. Such perforations may be caused by a blow or a loud report or by a wound. The upper wall of the meatus is separated from the cranial cavity by a thin plate of bone; the anterior wall is separated from the temporo-maxillary joint and parotid gland by the bone forming the glenoid fossa ; and the posterior wall is in relation with the mastoid cells, hence inflammation of the external auditory meatus may readily extend to the membranes of the brain, to the temporo-maxillary joint, or to the mastoid cells ; and, in addition to this, blows on the chin may cause fracture of the wall of the meatus. The nerves supplying the meatus are, the auricular branch of the pneumogastric, the auriculo-temporal, and the auricularis magnus. The connections of these nerves explain the fact of the occurrence, in cases of any irritation of the meatus, of constant coughing and sneezing, from implication of the pneumogastric, or of yawning from implication of the auriculo-temporal. No doubt also the association of earache, with toothache, in cancer of the tongue is due to implication of the same nerve, a branch of the fifth, which supplies also the teeth and the tongue. The vessels of the meatus and membrana tympani are derived from the posterior auricular, temporal, and internal maxillary arteries. The upper half of the membrana tympani is much more richly supplied with blood than the lower half. For this reason, and also to avoid the chorda tympani nerve and ossicles, incisions through the membrane should be made at the lower and posterior part. The principal jDoint in connection with the surgical anatomy of the tympanum is its relations to other parts. Its roof is formed by a thin plate of bone, which, with the dura mater, is all that separates it from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the brain. Its floor is immediately above the jugular fossa behind and the carotid canal in front. Its posterior wall presents the openings of the mastoid cells. On its anterior wall is the opening of the Eustachian tube. Thus it follows that in disease of the middle ear we may get subdural abscess, septic meningitis, or abscess of the cerebrum or cerebellum, from extension of the inflammation through the bony roof; thrombosis of the lateral sinus, with or without pyaemia, by extension through the floor; or mastoid abscess, by exten- sion backwards. In addition to this we may get fatal haemorrhage from the internal carotid in destructive changes of the middle ear. And in throat disease we may get the inflammation extending up the Eustachian tube to the middle ear. The Eustachian tube IS accessible from the nose. If the nose and mouth be' closed, and an attempt made to expire air, a sense of pressure with dulness of hearing is produced in both ears, from the air finding its way up the Eustachian tube and bulging out the membrana tympani. During the act of swallowing the pharyngeal orifice of the tube, which is normally closed, is opened, probably by the action of the Tensor tympani. This fact was employed by Politzer in devising an easy method of inflating the tube. The nozzle of an indiarubber syringe is inserted into the nostril; the patient takes a mouthful of water and holds it in his mouth; both nostrils are closed with the finger and thumb to prevent the escape of air, and the patient is then requested to swallow ; as he does so, the air is forced out of the syringe into his nose, and is driven into the Eustachian tube, which is now open. The impact of the air against the membrana tympani can be heard, if the membrane is sound, b}' means of a piece of indiarubber tubing, one end of which is inserted into the meatus of the patient's ear, the other into that of the surgeon. The direct examination of the Eustachian tube is made by the Eustachian catheter. This is passed along the floor of the nostril, with the curve downwards, to the posterior wall of the pharynx. When this is felt, the catheter is to be withdrawn about half an inch, and the point rotated outwards through a quarter of a circle and pushed again slightly backwards, when it will enter the orifice of the tube, and will be found to be caught, and air forced into the catheter will be heard impinging on the tympanic membrane, if the ear of the patient and surgeon are connected by an indiarubber tube.