7i6 NERVOUS SYSTEM The choroid plexus is a highly vascular, fringe-like membrane, occupying the margin of the fold of pia mater {velum interpositum), in the interior of the brain. It extends, in a curved direction, across the floor of the lateral ventricle. In front, where it is small and tapering, it communicates with the choroid plexus of the opposite side, through an oval aperture, the foramen of Monro. Posteriorly, it descends into the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, where it joins with the pia mater through the transverse fissure. In structure, it consists of minute and highly vascular villous processes, composed of large round corpuscles, containing, besides a central nucleus, several yellowish granules and fat molecules, and covered by a single layer of flattened epithelium. The arteries of the choroid plexus enter the ventricle at the descending cornu, and, after ramifying through its substance, send branches into the substance of the brain. The veins of the choroid plexus terminate in the vense Galeni. The corpus fimbriatum (tcenia hijJj^ocamjyi) is a narrow, white, tape-like band, situated immediately behind the choroid plexus. It is the thin lateral edge of the posterior pillar of the fornix, and is attached along the inner border of the hippo- FiG. 428.—Transverse section of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. (From a drawing by Mr. F. A. Barton.) campus major as it descends into the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. It may be traced as far as the crochet or hook of the uncinate convolution. The ojJtic thalamus and fornix will be described on a subsequent page. The middle cornu should now be exposed, throughout its entire extent, by introducing the Httle finger gently into it, and cutting outwards along the finger through the substance of the hemisphere, which should be removed, to an extent sufiicient to expose the entire cavity. The hippocampus major, or cornu Ammonis (fig. 428), so called from its resem- blance to a ram's horn, is a white eminence, of a curved elongated form, extending throughout the entire length of the floor of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. At its lower extremity it becomes enlarged, and presents a number of roanded elevations with intervening depressions, which, from presenting some resemblance to the paw of an animal, is called the pes hipyocampi. If a transverse section is made through the hippocampus major (fig. 427), it will be seen that this eminence is produced by the extension inwards of the dentate (hippocampal) sulcus