117 CERVICAL VERTEBRA form of the atlas and axis are designed to admit of the nodding and rotatory movements of the head. The Atlas (fig. no) is so named from supporting the globe of the head. The chief peculiarities of this bone are that it has neither body nor spinous process. The body is detached from the rest of the bone, and forms the odontoid process of the second vertebra ; while the parts corresponding to the pedicles join in front to form the anterior arch. The atlas consists of an anterior arch, a posterior arch, and two lateral masses. The anterior arch forms about one-fifth of the bone : its anterior surface is convex, and presents about its centre a tubercle, for the attachment of the Longus colli muscle; posteriorly it is concave, and marked by a smooth, oval or circular facet, for articulation with the odontoid process of the axis. The upper and lower borders give attachment to the anterior occipito-atlantal and the anterior atlanto-axial ligaments which connect it with the occipital bone above and the axis below. The posterior arch forms about two-fifths of the circumference of the bone; it terminates behind in a titbercle, which is the rudiment of a spinous process, and gives origin to the Rectus capitis posticus minor. The diminutive size of this process prevents any interference in the movements between it and the cranium. The posterior part of the arch presents above and behind a rounded edge for the attachment of the posterior occipito- atlantal ligament, whilst in front, immediately behind each superior articular pro- cess, is a groove, sometimes converted into a foramen by a delicate bony spiculum which arches backwards from the posterior extremity of the superior articular process. These grooves represent the superior intervertebral notches, and are peculiar from being situated behind the articular processes, instead of in front of them, as in the other vertebrae. They serve for the transmission of the vertebral artery, which, ascending through the foramen in the transverse process, winds round the lateral mass in a direction backwards and inwards. They also transmit the suboccipital nerve. On the under surface of the posterior arch, in the same situation, are two other grooves, placed behind the lateral masses, and representing the inferior intervertebral notches of other vertebrae. They are much less marked than the superior. The lower border also gives attachment to the posterior atlanto- axial ligament, which connects it with the axis. The lateral masses are the most bulky and solid parts of the atlas, in order to support the weight of the head ; they present two articulating processes above, and two below. The two superior are of large size, oval, concave, and approach each other in front, but diverge behind; they are directed upwards, inwards, and a little backwards, forming a kind of cup for the condyles of the occipital bone, and are admirably adapted to the nodding movements of the head. Not unfrequently they are partially subdivided by a more or less deep indentation which encroaches upon each lateral margin. The inferior articular processes are circular in form, flattened or slightly concave, and directed downwards and inwards, articulating with the axis, and permitting the rotatory movements. Just belo^\r the inner margin of each superior articular surface is a small tubercle, for the attachment of the transverse ligament which, stretching across the ring of the atlas, divides it into two unequal parts ; the anterior or smaller segment receiving the odontoid process of the axis, the posterior allowing the transmission of the spinal cord and its membranes. This part of the spinal canal is of considerable size, to afford space for the spinal cord ; and hence lateral displacement of the atlas may occur without compression of this structure. The transverse processes are of large size, project directly outwards from the lateral masses, and serve for the attachment of special muscles which assist in rotating the head. They are long, not bifid, and perforated at their base by a canal for the vertebral artery, which is directed from below, upwards and backwards. The Axis (fig. in) is so named from forming the pivot upon which the first vertebra, carrying the head, rotates. The most distinctive character of this bone is the strong, prominent process, tooth-like in form (hence the name odontoid), which rises perpendicularly from the upper surface of the body. The body is of a