NERVOUS SYSTEM 688 Weight of the Encephalon.—The average weight of the brain, in the adult male, is 49^ oz., or a little more than 3 lb. avoirdupois ; that of the female, 44 oz.; the average difference between the two being from 5 to 6 oz. The prevailing weight of the brain, in the male, ranges betAveen 46 oz. and 53 oz.; and, in the female, between 41 oz. and 47 oz. In the male, the maximum weight out of 278 cases was 65 oz. and the minimum weight 34 oz. The maximum weight of the adult female brain, out of 191 cases, was 56 oz., and the minimum weight 31 oz. According to Luschka, the average weight of a man's brain is 1,424 grammes (about 45 oz.), of a woman's 1,272 grammes (about 41 oz.), and according to Krause, 1,570 grammes (about 48^ oz.) for the male, and 1,350 (about 43 oz.) for the female. It appears that the weight of the brain increases rapidly up to the seventh year, more slowly to between sixteen and twenty, and still more slowly to between thirty and forty, when it reaches its maximum. Beyond this period, as age advances and the mental faculties decline, the brain diminishes slowly in weight, about an ounce for each subsequent decennial period. These results apply alike to both sexes. The size of the brain was formerly said to bear a general relation to the intel- lectual capacity of the individual. Cuvier's brain weighed rather more than 64 oz., that of the late Dr. Abercrombie 63 oz., and that of Dupuytren 62^ oz. On the other hand, the brain of an idiot seldom weighs more than 23 oz. But these facts are by no means conclusive, and it is well known that these weights have been equalled by the brains of persons who never displayed any remarkable intellect. Dr. Haldennan, of Cincinnati, has recorded the case of a mulatto, aged 45, whose brain weighed 68| oz.; he had been a slave, and was never regarded as particularly intelligent; he was illiterate, but is said to have been reserved, meditative, and economical. Dr. Ensor, district medical officer at Port Elizabeth, reports that the brain of Carey, the Irish informer, weighed 61 oz. M. Nikiforoff has published an article on the subject of the weight of brains in the Novosti. According to him, the weight of the brain has no influence whatever on the mental faculties. It ought to be remembered that the significance of the weight of the brain should depend upon the proportion it bears to the dimensions of the whole body and to the age of the individual. It is equally important to know what was the cause of death, for long illness or old age exhausts the brain. To define the real degree of development of the brain, it is therefore necessary to have a knowledge of the condition of the whole body ; and, as this is usually lacking, the mere record of weight possesses little significance. The human brain is heavier than that of all the lower animals, excepting the elephant and whale. The brain of the former weighs from eight to ten pounds ; and that of a whale, in a specimen seventy-five feet long, weighed rather more than five pounds. Medulla Oblongata The medulla oblongata, or bulb, is the upper enlarged part of the spinal cord, and extends from the lower margin of the foramen magnum to the lower border of the pons Varolii. It is directed from above obliquely downwards and backwards; its anterior surface rests on the basilar groove of the occipital bone, its posterior surface is received into the fossa between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, forming the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is pyramidal in form, its broad extremity directed upwards, its lower end being narrow at its point of connection with the cord. It measures an inch in length, three-quarters of an inch in breadth at its widest part, and half an inch in thickness. Its surface is marked, in the median line, in front and behind, by an anterior and posterior median fissure, which are continuous with those of the spinal cord. The anterior fissure contains a fold of pia mater, and terminates just below the pons in a cul-de-sac, the foramen ccecum. It is interrupted at its lower part by some bundles of fibres, which cross obliquely from one side to the other, forming the decussation of the pyramids. The posterior is a deep but narrow fissure, continued upwards to about the middle of the medulla, where it expands into the fourth ventricle. These two fissures