THE STOMACH 911 pyloric end of the stomach, and from this fact have received their name. They were formerly ternled mucous glands, and were supposed to secrete mucus ; but, as Klein points out, ' the cells are serous, not mucous, and the secretion of the glands cannot therefore be mucus.' They consist of two or three short, closed tubes opening into a common duct, the external orifice of which is situated at the bottom of an alveolus. The caecal tubes are wavy, and are of about equal length with the duct. The tubes and duct are lined throughout with epithelium, the duct being lined by columnar cells, continuous with the epithelium lining the surface of the mucous membrane of the stomach, the tubes with shorter and more cubical cells which are finely granular. The peptic glands (fig. 531) are found all over the surface of the stomach. Like the pyloric glands they consist of a duct, into which open two or more cffical tubes. The duct, however, in these glands is shorter than in the other variety, sometimes not amounting to more than one-sixth of the whole length of the gland; it is lined throughout by columnar epithelium. At the point where the terminal tubes open into the duct, and which is termed the neck, the epithe- lium alters, the cells becoming much shorter and opaque : the lumen also becomes Fig. 530.—Pyloric gland. Fig. 531.—Peptic gastric gland. suddenly constricted, and is continued down to the bottom of the tubes as a very fine channel. Here also are found, between the epithelium and the basement membrane, la-rge spheroidal, coarsely granular cells, which were formerly termed peptic cells, and which produce an outward bulging of the basement membrane. They are seen throughout the remainder of the tube at intervals, and give it a beaded or varicose appearance. Below the neck, the terminal tubes, in addition to these isolated spheroidal cells, are occupied with finely granular, angular cells (columnar, Klein) leaving only a small channel in the centre. They are continuous with the short columnar cells of the neck, and are termed the central or chief cells, because they are believed to be principally concerned in the secretion of the gastric juice. The peptic cells, which were formerly supposed" to possess this office, are now termed parietal or oxyntic cells. Between the glands the mucous membrane consists of a connective-tissue framework, with lymphoid tissue. In places, this