838 ORGANS OF SENSE bundles of nerves run ; these are lined by an endothelium, and are continuous with the cell-spaces. The nerves are numerous, twenty-four to thirty-six in number (KoUiker) ; forty to forty-five (Waldeyer and Siimisch) ; they are derived from the ciliary nerves, and enter the laminated tissue of the cornea. They ramify through- out its substance in a delicate network, and their terminal filaments form a firm and closer plexus on the surface of the cornea proper beneath the epithelium. This is termed the suheijithelial ]jlexiis, and from it fibrils are given off which ramify between the epithelial cells, forming a network which is termed the intra- epithelial 2)lexus. Dissection.—In order to separate the sclerotic and cornea, so as to expose the second tunic, the eyeball should be immersed in a small vessel of water, and held between the finger and thumb. The sclerotic is then carefully incised, in the equator of the globe, till the choroid is exposed. One blade of a pair of probe-pointed scissors is now introduced through the opening thus made, and the sclerotic divided around its entire circmnference, and removed in separate portions. The front segment being then drawn forwards, the Fig, 488.—The choroid and iris. (Enlarged.) handle of the scalpel should be pressed gently against it at its connection with the iris, and these being separated, a quantity of perfectly transparent fluid will escape ; this is the aqueous humour. In the coiu'se of the dissection, the ciliary nerves may be seen lying in the loose cellular tissue between the choroid and sclerotic, or contained in delicate grooves on the inner surface of the latter membrane. Seco7ul Tunic.—This is formed by the choroid behind ; the iris and ciliary processes in front; and by the ciHary muscle, opposite the junction of the sclerotic and cornea. The choroid is the vascular and pigmentary tunic of the eyeball, investing the posterior five-sixths of the globe, and extending as far forwards as the cornea; the cihary processes being appendages of the choroid developed from its inner surface in front. The iris is the circular muscular septum, which hangs vertically behind the cornea, presenting in its centre a large circular aperture, the pupil. The cihary muscle forms the white ring observed at the point where the choroid and iris join with each other, and with the sclerotic and cornea. The Choroid is a thin, highly vascular membrane, of a dark brown or chocolate colour, which invests the posterior five-sixths of the central part of the globe. It is