888 OEGANS OF DIGESTION crosses the Masseter muscle, and at its anterior border dips down into the substance of the Buccinator muscle, which it pierces ; it then runs for a short distance obliquely forwards between the Buccinator and mucous membrane of the mouth, and opens upon the inner surface of the cheek by a small orifice, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. While crossing the Masseter it receives the duct of a small detached portion of the giand, socia parotidis, which occasionally exists as a separate lobe, just beneath the zygomatic arch. In this position it has the transverse facial artery above it and some branches of the facial nerve below it. Structure.—The parotid duct is dense, of considerable thickness, and its canal about the size of a crow-quill; it consists of an external or fibrous coat, of considerable density, containing contractile fibres, and of an internal or mucous coat lined with short columnar epithelium. Surface Form.—The direction of the duct corresponds to a line drawn across the face about a finger's breadth below the zygoma, that is, from the lower part of the tragus to midway between the free margin of the upper lip and the ala of the nose. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the parotid gland are derived from the external carotid, and from the branches given off by that vessel in or near its substance. The veins empty themselves into the external jugular, through some of its tributaries. The lymjjhatics terminate in the superficial and deep cervical Fig 518.—A highly magnified section of the submaxillary gland of the dog, stained with carmine. (Kolliker.) glands, passing in their course through two or three lymphatic glands, placed on the surface and in the substance of the parotid. The nerves are derived from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, the facial, the auriculo-temporal, and great auricular nerves. It is probable that the branch from the auriculo-temporal nerve is derived from the glosso-pharyngeal through the otic ganglion (see page 751). At all events in some of the lower animals this has been proved experimentally to be the case. The submaxillary gland is situated below the jaw, in the anterior part of the submaxillary triangle of the neck. It is irregular in form, and weighs about two drachms. It is covered by the integument, Platysma, deep cervical fascia, and the body of the lower jaw, corresponding to a depression on the inner surface of that bone; and lies upon the Mylo-hyoid, Hyo-glossus, and Stylo-glossus muscles, a portion of the gland passing beneath the posterior border of the Mylo-hyoid. In front of it is the anterior belly of the Digastric; behind, it is separated from the parotid gland by the stylo-maxillary ligament, and from the sublingual gland in front by the Mylo-hyoid muscle. The facial artery lies embedded in a groove in its posterior and upper border. The duct of the submaxillary gland {Wharton's) is about two inches in length, and its walls are much thinner than those of the parotid duct. It commences by numerous branches from the deep portion of the gland, and passes forwards and