342 AETICULATIONS Obturator internns is the principal agent in determining whether, in the backward disloca- tions, the head of the bone shall be ultimately lodged on the dorsum of the ilium, or in or near the sciatic notch. In both dislocations the head passes, in the first instance, in the same direction ; but, as Bigelow asserts, in the displacement on to the dorsum, the head of the bone travels up behind the acetabulum, between the muscle and the pelvis; while in the dislocation into the sciatic notch, the head passes behind the muscle, and is therefore prevented from reaching the dorsum, in consequence of the tendon of the muscle arching over the neck of the bone, and so remains in the neighbourhood of the sciatic notch. Bigelow, therefore, distinguishes these two forms of dislocation by describing them as dislocations backwards,' above and below,' the Obturator internus. The ilio-femoral ligament is rarely torn in dislocations of the hip, and this fact is taken advantage of by the surgeon in reducing these dislocations by manipulation. It is made to act as a fulcrum to a lever, of which the long arm is the shaft of the femur, and the short arm the neck of the bone. The hip-joint is rarely the seat of acute synovitis from injury, on account of its deep position and its thick covering of soft parts. Acute inflammation may, and does, frequently occur as the result of constitutional conditions, as rheumatism, pyaemia, &c. When, in these cases, effusion takes place, and the joint becomes distended with fluid, the swelling is not very easy to detect on account of the thickness of the capsule and the depth of the articulation. It is principally to be found on the front of the joint, just mternal to the ilio-femoral ligament; or behind, at the lower and back part. In these two x^laces the capsule is thinner than elsewhere. Disease of the hip-joint is much more frequently of a chronic character and is usually of a tubercular origin. It begms either in the bones or in the synovial membrane. More frequently in the former, and probably, in most cases, at the growing, highly vascular tissue in the neighbourhood of the epiphysial cartilage. In this respect it differs very materially from tubercular arthritis of the knee, where the disease usually commences in the synovial membrane. The reasons for this are two-fold : first, this part being the centre of rapid growth, its nutrition is unstable and apt to pass into inflammatory action ; and, secondly, great strain is thrown upon it, from the frequency of falls and blows upon the hip, which causes crushing of the epiphysial cartilage or the cancellous tissue in its neighbourhood, with the results likely to follow such an injury. In addition to these, the depth of the joint protects it from the causes of synovitis. In chronic hip-disease the affected limb assumes an altered position, the cause of which it is important to understand. In the early stage of a typical case, the limb is flexed, abducted, and rotated outwards. In this position all the ligaments of the joint are relaxed : the front of the capsule by flexion ; the outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament by abduction ; and the inner band of this ligament and the back of the capsule by rotation outwards. It is, therefore, the position of greatest ease. The condition is not quite obvious at first, upon examining a patient. If the patient is laid in the supine position, the affected limb will be found to be extended and parallel with the other. But it will be found that the pelvis is tilted downwards on the diseased side and the limb apparently longer than its fellow, and that the lumbar spine is arched forward (lordosis). If now the thigh is abducted and flexed, the tilting downwards and the arching forwards of the pelvis disappears. The condition is thus explained. A limb which is flexed and abducted is obviously useless for progression, and, in order to overcome the difficulty, the patient depresses the affected side of his pelvis in order to produce parallelism of his limbs, and at the same time rotates his pelvis on its transverse horizontal axis, so as to direct the limb downwards, instead of forwards. In the later stages of the disease the limb becomes flexed and adducted and inverted. This position probably depends upon muscular action, at all events as regards the adduction. The Adductor muscles are supplied by the obturator nerve, which also largely supplies the joint. These muscles are therefore thrown into reflex action by the irritation of the peripheral terminations of this nerve in the inflamed articulation. Osteo-arthritis is not uncommon in the hip-joint, and is said to be more common in the male than in the female, in whom the knee-joint is more frequently affected. It is a disease of middle age or more advanced period of life. Congenital dislocation is more commonly met with in the hip-joint than in any other articulation. The displacement usually takes place on to the dorsum ilii. It gives rise to extreme lordosis, and a waddling gait is noticed as soon as the child commences to walk. Excision of the hip may be required for disease or for injury, especially gunshot. It may be performed either by an anterior incision or a posterior one. The former one entails less interference with important structures, especially muscles, than the posterior one, but permits of less efficient drainage. In these days, however, when the surgeon aims at securing healing of his wound without suppuration, this second desideratum is not of so much importance. In the operation in front, the surgeon makes an incision three to four inches in length, starting immediately below and external to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, downwards and inwards between the Sartorius and Tensor vaginae femoris, to the neck of the bone, dividing the capsule at its upper part. A narrow bladed saw now divides the neck of the femur, and the head of the bone is extracted with sequestrum forceps. All diseased tissue is carefully removed with a sharp spoon or scissors, and the cavity thoroughly flushed out with a hot antiseptic fluid. The posterior method consists in making an incision three or four inches long, com-