I052 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNIA becomes thin and cellular as it ascends to the Diaphragm. Below, it has the following attachments: external to the femoral vessels it is connected to the posterior margin of Poupart's ligament, and is there continuous with the iliac fascia. Internal to the vessels it is thin, and attached to the os pubis and pectineal line behind the conjoined tendon, with which it is united ; and, corresponding to the points where the femoral vessels pass into the thigh, this fascia descends in front of them, forming the anterior wall of the crural sheath. The spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female, pass through this fascia; the point where they pass through is called the internal or deep abdominal ring. This opening is not visible externally owing to a prolongation of the transversalis fascia on these structures, forming the infundibuliform process. The internal or deep abdominal ring is situated in the transversalis fascia, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, and about half an inch above Poupart's ligament. It is of an oval form, the extremities of the oval directed upwards and downwards ; it varies in size in dif- ferent subjects, and is much larger in the male than in the female. It is bounded, above and externally, by the arched fibres of the Transversalis muscle, below and internally by the deep epigastric vessels. It transmits the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. From its circumference a thin, funnel-shaped membrane, the infundibuliform fascia, is continued round the cord and testis, enclosing them in a distinct pouch. When the sac of an oblique inguinal hernia passes through the internal or deep abdominal ring, the infundi- buliform process of the transversalis fascia forms one of its coverings. The subperitoneal areolar tissue.—Between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum is a quantity of loose areolar tissue. In some subjects it is of con- siderable thickness, and loaded with adipose tissue. Opposite the internal ring it is continued round the surface of the cord, forming a loose sheath for it. The deep epigastric artery arises from the external iliac artery a few lines above Poupart's ligament. It at first descends to reach this ligament, and then ascends obliquely along the inner margin of the internal or deep abdominal ring, lying between the transversalis fascia and the peritoneum, and passing upwards pierces the transversalis fascia and enters the sheath of the Rectus muscle just below the semilunar fold of Douglas. Consequently the deep epigastric artery bears a very important relation to the internal abdominal ring, as it passes obliquely upwards and inwards, from its origin from the external iliac. In this part of its course it lies along the lower and inner margin of the internal ring, and beneath the commencement of the spermatic cord. As it winds round the internal abdominal ring it is crossed by the vas deferens in the male, and by the round ligament in the female. The peritoneum, corresponding to the inner surface of the internal ring, presents a well-marked depression, the depth of which varies in different subjects. A thin fibrous band is continued from it along the front of the cord for a variable distance, and becomes ultimately lost. This is the remains of the pouch of peritoneum which, in the foetus, accompanies the cord and testis into the scrotum; the obliteration of which commences soon after birth. In some cases the fibrous band can only be traced a short distance ; but occasionally it may be followed, as a fine cord, as far as the upper end of the tunica vaginalis. Sometimes the tube of peritoneum is only closed at intervals, and presents a sacculated appearance; or a single pouch may extend along the whole length of the cord, which may be closed above ; or the pouch may be directly continuous with the peritoneum by an opening at its upper part. In the female (in the foetus) the peritoneum is also prolonged in the form of a tubular process for a short distance into the inguinal canal. This process is called the canal of Nuck. It is generally obliterated in the adult, but sometimes it remains pervious even in advanced life. It is analogous to the peritoneal pouch which accompanies the descent of the testis.