THE ROUND LIGAMENTS 1043 of the vesicle. This is termed the clisnis proligerus, and in this the ovum is embedded.* The ova are formed from the germ-epithehum on the surface of the ovary: the cells become enlarged and involuted, forming Httle depressions on the surface of the ovary. As they sink deeper into the tissue they become enclosed by the out- growth of processes from the stroma of the ovary, and, becoming surrounded, their connection with the surface is cut off, and the germ-epitheUum forming the involution is contained in a cavity, the future Graafian folhcle. The germ-cell or cells now form the ovum ; the cell-wall forms the vitelline membrane ; the nucleus, the germinal area ; and a nucleolus, which soon appears, the germinal spot. A clear homogeneous protoplasm is formed Avithin the cell, constituting the yelk, and thus the primordial ovum is developed. According to Dr. Foulis, the cells of the membrana granulosa are formed out of the nuclei of the fibro-cellular stroma of the ovary .t The development and maturation of the Graafian vesicles and ova continue uninterruptedly from puberty to the end of the fruitful period of woman's life, while their formation commences before birth. Before puberty the ovaries are small, the Graafian vesicles contained in them are disposed in a comparatively bhick layer in the cortical substance ; here they present the appearance of a large number of minute closed vesicles, constituting the early condition of the Graafian vesicle ; many, however, never attain full development, but shrink and disappear, their ova being incapable of impregnation. At puberty the ovaries enlarge, are more vascular, the Graafian vesicles are developed in greater abundance, and their ova are capable of fecundation. Discharge of the Ovum.—The Graafian vesicles, after gradually approaching the surface of the ovary, burst: the ovum and fluid contents of the vesicles are liberated, and escape on the exterior of the ovary, passing thence into the Fallopian tube.+ In the foetus, the ovaries are situated, like the testes, in the lumbar region, near the kidneys. They may be distinguished from those bodies at an early period by their elongated and flattened form, and by their position, which is at first oblique and then nearly transverse. They gradually descend into the pelvis. Lying above the ovary in the broad ligament between it and the Fallopian tube is the organ of BosenmilUer, called also the parovarium or epoophoron. This is the remnant of a foetal structure, the development of which has been described at a former page (page 108). In the adult it consists of a few closed convoluted tubes, lined with epithelium, some of them atrophied, and one, usually distinguishable from the rest, ends in a bulbous or hydatid swelling. The parovarium is con- nected at its uterine extremity with the remains of the Wolffian duct—the duct of Gartner. The Ligament of the ovary is a rounded cord, which extends from each superior angle of the uterus to the inner extremity of the ovary ; it consists of fibrous tissue and a few muscular fibres derived from the uterus. The Round Ligaments are two rounded cords between four and five inches in length, situated between the layers of the broad ligament in front of and below the Fallopian tube. Commencing on each side at the superior angle of the uterus, this ligament passes forwards, upwards, and outwards through the internal abdominal ring, along the inguinal canal to the labia majora, in which it becomes lost. The round ligament consists principally of muscular tissue, prolonged from the uterus ; also of some fibrous and areolar tissue, besides blood-vessels and nerves, enclosed in a duplicature of peritoneum, which, in the foetus, is prolonged in the form of a tubular process for a short distance into the inguinal canal. This process is called the canal of Nuch. It is generally obliterated in the adult, but sometimes remains * For a description of the ovum, see page 68. + Proceedings of the Boyal Society of Edinburgh, April 1875. X This is effected either by apphcation of the tube to the ovary, or by a curling upwards of the fimbriated extremity, so that the ovum is caught as it falls. 3x2