8i6 SYMPATHETIC NEEVE The Inferior Cervical Ganglion is situated between the base of the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, on the inner side of the superior intercostal artery. Its form is irregular; it is larger in size than the preceding, and frequently joined with the first thoracic ganglion. It is probably formed by the coalescence of two ganglia which correspond to the two last cervical nerves. Its sttjjerior branches communicate with the middle cervical ganglion. Its inferior branches descend, some in front of, others behind the subclavian artery, to join the first thoracic ganglion. Its internal branch is the inferior cardiac nerve. The inferior cardiac nerve [nervus cardiacus minor) arises from the inferior cervical or first thoracic ganglion. It passes down behind the subclavian artery and along the front of the trachea, to join the deep cardiac plexus. It communi- cates freely behind the subclavian artery with the recurrent laryngeal and middle cardiac nerves. The external branches consist of several filaments, some of which communi- cate with the seventh and eighth spinal nerves ; others accompany the vertebral artery along the vertebral canal, forming a plexus round the vessel, supplying it with filaments, and communicating with the cervical spinal nerves as high as the fourth. Thoracic Portion of the Gangliated Cord The thoracic portion of the gangliated cord consists of a series of ganglia, which usually correspond in number to that of the vertebrae; but, from the occasional coalescence of two, their number is uncertain. These ganglia are placed on each side of the spine, resting against the heads of the ribs, and covered by the pleura costalis ; the last two are, however, anterior to the rest, being placed on the side of the bodies of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae. The ganglia are small in size, and of a greyish colour. The first, larger than the rest, is of an elongated form, and frequently blended with the last cervical. They are connected together by cord-like prolongations from their substance. The external branches from each ganglion, usually two in number, communi- cate with each of the dorsal spinal nerves. The internal branches from the six upper ganglia are very small; they supply filaments to the thoracic aorta and its branches, besides small branches to the bodies of the vertebrae and their ligaments. Branches from the third and fourth, and sometimes, also, from the first and second ganglia form part of the posterior pulmonary plexus. The internal branches from the six lower ganglia are large and white in colour ; they distribute filaments to the aorta, and unite to form the three splanchnic nerves. These are named, the great, the lesser, and the smallest or renal splanchnic. The great splanchnic nerve is of a white colour, firm in texture, and bears a marked contrast to the ganglionic nerves. It is formed by branches from the thoracic ganglia between the sixth and tenth, receiving filaments (according to Dr. Beck) from all the thoracic ganglia above the sixth. These roots unite to form a large round cord of considerable size. It descends obliquely inwards in front of the bodies of the vertebrae along the posterior mediastinum, perforates the crus of the Diaphragm, and terminates in the semilunar ganglion, distributing filaments to the renal and suprarenal plexus. The lesser splanchnic nerve is formed by filaments from the tenth and eleventh ganglia, and from the cord between them. It pierces the Diaphragm with the preceding nerve, and joins the coeliac plexus. It communicates in the chest with the great splanchnic nerve, and occasionally sends filaments to the renal plexus. The smallest, or renal splanchnic nerve arises from the last ganglion, and, piercing the Diaphragm, terminates in the renal plexus and lower part of the coeliac plexus. It occasionally communicates with the preceding nerve. A striking analogy appears to exist between the splanchnic and the cardiac