SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF BONES OF FACE 197 remaining unclosed till the fom'th year. The condition of cranio-tahes has by some been also believed to be the result of rickets ; by others is believed to be due to inherited syphilis. In these cases the bone undergoes atrophic changes in patches, so that it becomes gi'eatly thinned in places, generally where there is pressure, as from the pillow or nurse's arm. It is, therefore, usually met with in the parietal bone and vertical plate of the occipital bone. In congenital syphilis deposits of porous bone are often found at the angles of the parietal bones, and two halves of the frontal bone which bound the anterior fontanelle. These deposits are separated by the coronal and sagittal sutm^es, and give to the skull an appearance like a ' hot cross bun.' They are known as Parrot's nodes, and such a skull has received the name of natiform, from its fancied resemblance to the buttocks. In connection with the bones of the face a common malformation is cleft joalate, owing to the non-union of the palatal processes of the maxillary or pre-oral arch (see page 88). This cleft may involve the whole or only a portion of the hard palate, and usually involves the soft palate also. The cleft is in the middle line, except it involves the alveolus in front, when it follows the suture between the main portion of the bone and the pre-maxillary bone. Sometimes the cleft runs on either side of the pre-maxillary bone, so that this bone is quite isolated from the maxillary bones and hangs from the end of the vomer. The malformation is usually associated with hare-lip, which, when single, is almost always on one side, corresponding to the position of the suture between the lateral incisor and canine tooth. Some few cases of median hare-lip have been described. In double hare-lip there is a cleft on each side of the middle line. The bones of the face are sometimes fractured as the result of direct violence. The two most commonly broken are the nasal bone and the inferior maxilla, and of these, the latter is by far the most frequently fractured of all the bones of the face. Fracture of the nasal bone is for the most part transverse, and takes place about half an inch from the free margin. The broken portion may be displaced backwards or more generally to one side by the force which produced the lesion, as there are no muscles here which can cause displace- ment. The malar bone is probably never broken alone, that is to say, imconnected with a fracture of the other bones of the face. The zygomatic arch is occasionally fractured, and when this occurs from direct violence, as is usually the case, the fragments may be displaced inwards. This lesion is often attended with great difficulty or even inability to open and shut the mouth, and this has been stated to be due to the depressed fragments perforating the temporal muscle, but would appear rather to be caused by the injury done to the bony origin of the masseter muscle. Fractures of the su^Jerior maxilla may vary much in degree, from the chipping off of a portion of the alveolar arch, a frequent accident when the old ' key' instrument was used for the extraction of teeth, to an extensive comminution of the whole bone from severe violence, as the kick of a horse. The most common situation for a fracture of the inferior maxillary bone is in the neighbourhood of the canine tooth, as at this spot the jaw is weakened by the deep socket for the fang of this tooth ; it is next most frequently fractured at the angle; then at the symphysis, and finally the neck of the condyle or the coronoid process may be broken. Occasionally a double fracture may occur, one in either half of the bone. The fractures are usually compound, from laceration of the mucous membrane covering the gums. The dis- placement is mainly the result of the same violence as produced the injury, but may be further increased by the action of the muscles passing from the neighbourhood of the symphysis to the hyoid bone. The superior and inferior maxillary bones are both of them frequently the seat of necrosis ; though the disease affects the lower much more frequently than the upper jaw, probably on account of the greater supply of blood to the latter. It may be the result of periostitis, from tooth irritation, injury, or the action of some specific poison, as syphilis, or from salivation by mercury ; it not unfrequently occurs in children after attacks of the exanthematous fevers, and a special form occurs from the action of the fumes of phosphorus in persons engaged in match-making. Tumours attack the jaw-bones not unfrequently, and these may be either innocent or malignant : in the upper jaw cysts may occur in the antrum, constituting the so-called dropsy of the antrum ; or, again, cysts may form in either jaw in connection with the teeth : either cj^sts connected with the roots of fully developed teeth, the ' dental cyst'; or cysts connected with imperfectly developed teeth, the ' dentigerous cyst.' Solid inno- cent tumours include the fibroma, the chondroma, and the osteoma. Of malignant tumours there are two classes, the sarcomata and the epithelioma. The sarcoma are of various kinds, the spindle-celled and round-celled of a very malignant character, and the myeloid sarcoma principally affecting the alveolar margin of the bone. Of the epitheliomata we find the squamous variety spreading to the bone from the palate or gum, and the c^dindrical epithelioma originating in the antrum or nasal fossa?. Both superior and inferior maxillary bones occasionally require removal for tumours and in some other conditions. The upper jaw is removed by an incision from the inner canthus of the eye, along the side of the nose, round the ala, and down the middle line of the upper lip. A second incision is carried outw ards from tlio inner canthus of the eye along the lower margin of the orbit as far as the prominence of the malar bone. The flap thus formed is reflected outwards and the surface of the bone exposed. The connections of the