THE SKELETON 228 olecranon, directed backwards, is triangular, smooth, subcntaneons, and covered by a bursa. Its upper surface, directed upwards, is of a quadrilateral form, marked behind by a rough impression for the attachment of the Triceps muscle ; and in front, near the margin, by a slight transverse groove for the attachment of part of the posterior ligament of the elbow-joint. Its anterior surface is smooth, concave, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and forms the upper and back part of the great sigmoid ca\ity. The lateral borders present a continuation of the same groove that was seen on the margin of the superior surface ; they serve for the attachment of ligaments—viz. the back part of the internal lateral ligament internally, the posterior ligament externally. To the inner border is also attached a part of the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; while to the outer border is attached the Anconeus. The Coronoid Process {Kop^vrj, anything Jiooked like a crow's beak) is a rough, triangular eminence of bone which projects horizontally forwards from the upper and front part of the ulna, forming the lower part of the great sigmoid cavity. Its base is continuous with the shaft, and of considerable strength ; so much so that fracture of it is an accident of rare occurrence. Its apex is pointed, slightly curved upwards, and received into the coronoid depression of the humerus in flexion of the forearm. Its upper surface is smooth, concave, and forms the lower part of the greater sigmoid cavity. The under surface is concave, and marked internally by a rough impression for the insertion of the Brachialis anticus. At the junction of this surface with the shaft is a rough eminence, the tubercle of the ulna, for the attachment of the oblique ligament. Its outer surface presents a narrow, oblong, articular depression, the lesser sigmoid cavity. The inner surface, by its prominent, free margin, serves for the attachment of part of the internal lateral ligament. At the front part of this surface is a small, rounded eminence for the attachment of one head of the Flexor sublimis digitorum ; behind the eminence, a depression for part of the origin of the Flexor profundus digitorum ; and, descending from the emin- ence, a ridge, which gives attachment to one head of the Pronator radii teres. Generally, the Flexor longus pollicis arises from the lower part of the coronoid process by a rounded bundle of muscular fibres. The Greater Sigmoid Cavity, so called from its resemblance to the old shape of the Greek letter ^, is a semilunar depression of large size, formed by the olecranon and coronoid processes, and serving for articulation with the trochlear surface of the humerus. About the middle of either lateral border of this cavity is a notch, which contracts it somewhat, and serves to indicate the junction of the two processes of which it is formed. The cavity is concave from above downwards, and divided into two lateral parts by a smooth, elevated ridge which runs from the summit of the olecranon to the tip of the coronoid process. Of these two portions, the internal is the larger, and is slightly concave transversely; the external portion is convex above, slightly concave below. The articular surface, in the recent state, is covered with a thin layer of cartilage. The Lesser Sigmoid Cavity is a narrow, oblong, articular depression, placed on the outer side of the coronoid process, and serving for articulation with the head of the radius. It is concave from before backwards; and its extremities, which are prominent, serve for the attachment of the orbicular ligament. In the recent state, it is covered with a thin layer of cartilage. The Shaft, at its upper part, is prismatic in form, and curved from behind forwards, and from without inwards, so as to be convex behind and externally; its central part is quite straight ; its lower part rounded, smooth, and bent a little outwards ; it tapers gradually from above downwards, and presents for examination three borders, and three surfaces. The anterior border commences above at the prominent inner angle of the coro- noid process, and terminates below in front of the styloid process. It is well marked above, smooth and rounded in the middle of its extent, and affords attachment to the Flexor profundus digitorum : its lower fourth, marked off from the rest of the border by the commencement of an oblique ridge on the anterior surface, serves