MUSCLES OF LARYNX 971 ligaments), covered on their surface by a thin layer of mucous membrane. Each hgament consists of a band of yellow elastic tissue, attached in front to the depression between the two alffi of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid. Its lower border is continuous with the thin lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane. Its upper border forms the lower boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. Externally, the Thyro-arytenoideus muscle lies parallel with it. It is covered internally by mucous membrane, which is extremely thin, and closely adherent to its surface. The ventricle of the larynx is an oblong fossa, situated between the superior and inferior vocal cords on each side, and extending nearly their entire length. This fossa is bounded, above, by the free crescentic edge of the superior vocal cord ; below, by the straight margin of the true vocal cord; externally, by the corresponding Thyro-arytenoideus muscle. The anterior part of the ventricle leads up by a narrow opening into a csecal pouch of mucous membrane of variable size, called the laryngeal i^oiich. The sacculus laryngis, or laryngeal pouch, is a membranous sac, placed be- tween the superior vocal cord and the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage, occasionally extending as far as its upper border: it is conical in form. Fig. 570.—Vertical section of the larynx and upper part of the trachea. Glosso-epiglottic K^jQ Aryteno- epiglottic fold Vocal cords, ventricle between them Arytenoid cartilage irytenoideus muscle Crico-thyroid meiiihraue and curved slightly backwards, like a Phrygian cap. On the surface of its mucous membrane are the openings of sixty or seventy small follicular glands, which are lodged in the submucous areolar tissue. This sac is enclosed in a fibrous capsule, continuous below with the superior thyro-arytenoid liga- ment : its laryngeal surface is covered by the Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior muscle {Compressor sacculi laryngis, Hilton); whilst its exterior is covered by the Thyro-arytenoideus and Thyro- epiglottideus muscles. These muscles compress the sacculus laryngis, and discharge the secretion it contains upon the chordae vocales, the surfaces of which it is intended to lubricate. Muscles.—The intrinsic muscles of the larynx are nine in number ; six of which are the muscles of the vocal cords and rima glottidis; and three are con- nected with the enifflottis. The six muscles of the vocal cords and rima glottidis are—the' Crico-thyroid. Arytenoideus. Crico-arytenoideus posticus. Thyro-arytenoideus. Crico-arytenoideus lateralis. Arytenoideus rectus. The Crico-thyroid is triangular in form, and situated at the fore part and side of the cricoid cartilage. It arises from the front and lateral part of the cricoid cartilage; its fibres diverge, passing obliquely upwards and outwards, to be inserted into the lower border of the thyroid cartilage, and into the anterior border of the lower cornua. The inner borders of these two muscles are separated in the middle line by a triangular interval, occupied by the crico-thyroid membrane. The Crico-arytenoideus ■posticus arises from the broad depression occupying