SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF 478 Dorsal interossei produce elongated swellings between the metacarpal bones. The first dorsal interosseous (Abductor indicis), when the thumb is closely adducted to the hand, forms a prominent fusiform bulging ; the other interossei are not so marked. SUEGICAL ANATOMY The student, having completed the dissection of the muscles of the upper extremity, should consider the effects likely to be produced by the action of the various muscles in fracture of the bones. In considering the actions of the various muscles upon fractures of the upper extremity, I have selected the most common forms of injury, both for illustration and description. Fracture of the middle of the clavicle (fig. 319) is always attended with considerable displacement, the inner end of the outer fragment is displaced inwards and backwards, while the outer end of the same fragment is rotated forwards, owing to the displacement backwards of its inner end. The whole outer fragment is somewhat depressed. The displacement is produced as follows : inwards, by the muscles passing from the chest to the outer fragment of the clavicle, to the scapula, and to the humerus, viz. the Subclavius, the Pectoralis minor and major, and the Latissimus dorsi; backwards, with consequent rotation of thp outer end of the outer fragment forwards by the Pectoral Fig. 319.—Fracture^of the middle of muscles. " The depression of the whole outer + „ ^ ^ fi^agment is produced by the weight of the arm and by the contraction of the Deltoid. The outer end of the inner fi'agment appears to be elevated, the skin being drawn tensely over it; this is owing to the depression of the outer fragment, as the inner fi-agment is usuallj^ kept fixed hj the costo-clavicular ligament, and by the antagonism between the Sterno- mastoid and Pectoralis major muscles. But it may be raised by an unusually strong Sterno- mastoid, or by the inner end of the outer fragment getting below and behind it. The causes of displacement having been ascer- tained, it is easy to apply the a2)propriate treatment. The outer fragment is to be drawn outwards, and, together with the scapula, raised upwards to a level with the inner fragment, and retained in that position. In fracture of the acromial end o f the clavicle, between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, only slight displacement occurs, as these ligaments, from their oblique inser- tion, serve to hold both portions of the bone in apposition. Fracture, also, of the sternal end, internal to the costo-clavicular ligament, is attended with only slight displacement, this ligament serving to retain the fragments in close apposition. Fracture of the acromion process usually arises from violence applied to the upper and outer part of the shoulder; it is generally known by the rotundity of the shoulder being lost, from the Deltoid drawing the fractured portion downwards and forwards; and the displacement may easily be discovered by tracing the margin of the clavicle outwards, when the fragment will be found resting on the front and upper part of the head of the humerus. In order to relax the anterior and outer fibres of the Deltoid (the opposing muscle), the arm should be drawn forwards across the chest, and the elbow well raised, so that the head of the bone may press the acromion process upwards, and retain it in its i^osition. Fracture of the coracoid jJrocess is an extremely rare accident, and is usually caused by a sharp blow on the point of the shoulder. Displacement is here produced by the combined actions of the Pectoralis minor, short head of the Biceps, and Coraco-brachialis, the former muscle drawing the fragment inwards, and the latter directly downwards, the amount of displacement being limited by the connection of this process to the acromion by means of the coraco-acromial ligament. In order to relax these muscles and replace the fragments in close apposition, the forearm should be flexed so as to relax the Biceps, and the arm drawn forwards and inwards across the chest so as to relax the Coraco- brachialis; the humerus should then be pushed upwards against the coraco-acromial ligament, and the arm retained in that position. Fracture of the surgical neck of the hmner^is (fig. 320) is very common, is attended with considerable displacement, and its appearances correspond somewhat with those of disloca- tion of the head of the humerus into the axilla. The upper fragment is slightly elevated