THE VASCULAR SYSTEM 53 veins, with a transverse layer of muscular fibres. The white fibrous element is in considerable excess, and the elastic fibres are in much smaller proportion in the veins than in the arteries. The outer coat consists of areolar tissue, as in the arteries, with longitudinal elastic fibres. In the largest veins the outer coat is from two to five times thicker than the middle coat, and contains a large number of longitudinal muscular fibres. This is most distinct in the inferior vena cava, and at the termination of this vein in the heart, in the trunks of the hepatic veins, in all the large trunks of the vena portas, in the splenic, superior mesenteric, external iliac, renal and azygos veins. In the renal and portal veins it extends through the whole thickness of the outer coat, but in the other veins mentioned a layer of connective and elastic tissue is found external to the muscular fibres. All the large veins which open into the heart are covered for a short distance with a layer of striped muscular tissue continued on to them from the heart. Muscular tissue is wanting in the veins—(i) of the maternal part of the placenta ; (2) in the venous sinuses of the dura mater and the veins of the pia mater of the brain and spinal cord; (3) in the veins of the retina; (4) in the veins of the cancellous tissue of bones ; (5) in the venous spaces of the corpora cavernosa. The veins of the above- mentioned parts consist of an internal endothelial lining supported on one or more layers of areolar tissue. The internal and external jugular veins and the subclavian vein are said to contain either no muscular fibres at all, or at all events only a slight amount in their middle coat. Most veins are provided with valves, which serve to prevent the reflux of the blood. They are formed by a reduphcation of the inner coat, strengthened by con- nective tissue and elastic fibres, and are covered on both surfaces with endothelium, the arrangement of which differs on the two surfaces. On the surface of the valve next the wall of the vein, the cells are arranged transversely; whilst on the other surface, over which the current of blood flows, the cells are arranged vertically in the direction of the current. Their form is semilunar. They are attached by their convex edge to the wall of the vein ; the concave margin is free, directed in the course of the venous current, and lies in close apposition with the wall of the vein as long as the current of blood takes its natural course ; if, however, any regurgi- tation takes place, the valves become distended, their opposed edges are brought into contact, and the current is intercepted. Most commonly two such valves are found placed opposite one another, more especially in the smaller veins or in the larger trunks at the point where they are joined by smaller branches ; occasionally there are three and sometimes only one. The wall of the vein on the cardiac side of the point of attachment of each segment of the valve is expanded into a pouch or sinus, which gives to the vessel, when injected or distended with blood, a knotted appearance. The valves are very numerous in the veins of the extremities, espe- cially of the lower extremities, these vessels having to conduct the blood against the force of gravity. They are absent in the very small veins, i.e. those less than of an inch in diameter, also in the venae cav^e, the hepatic veins, portal vein and its branches, the renal, uterine, and ovarian veins. A few valves are found in the spermatic veins, and one also at their point of junction with the renal vein and inferior vena cava in both sexes. The cerebral and spinal veins, the veins of the cancellated tissue of bone, the pulmonary veins, and the umbilical vein and its branches, are also destitute of valves. They are occasionally found, few in number, in the vense azygos and intercostal veins. The veins are supplied with nutrient vessels, vasa vasorwn, hke the arteries. Nerves also are distributed to them, in the same manner as to the arteries, but in much less abundance. The lymphatic vessels, including in this term the lacteal vessels, which are identical in structure with them, are composed of three coats. The internal is an endothelial and elastic coat. It is thin, transparent, slightly elastic, and ruptures sooner than the other coats. It is composed of a layer of elongated epithelial cells with serrated margins, by which the adjacent cells are dovetailed into one another. These are supported on a single layer of longitudinal elastic