SUEFACE FOEM 477 the external condyle, and thence gradually shades off hito a flattened surface. About the middle of the forearm it divides into two longitudinal eminences which diverge from each other, leaving a triangular interval between them. The outer of these two groups of muscles consists of the Supinator longus and the Extensor carpi radialis longior et brevior, which form a longitudinal eminence descending from the external condyloid ridge in the direction of the styloid process of the radius. The other and more posterior group consists of the Extensor communis digitorum, the Extensor minimi digiti, and the Extensor ca^rpi ulnaris. It commences above as a tapering form at the external condyle of the humerus, and is separated behind at its upper part from the Anconeus by a well- marked furrow ; and below, from the pronato-flexor mass, by the ulnar furrow. In the triangular interval left between these two groups, the extensors of the thumb and index finger are seen. The only two muscles of this region which require special mention, as independently influencing surface form, are the Supinator longus and the Anconeus. The inner border of the Supinator longus forms the outer boundary of the triangular space at the bend of the elbow. It commences as a rounded border above the condyle, and is longer, less oblique, and more prominent than the inner boundary. Lower down, the muscle forms a full fleshy mass on the outer side of the upper part of the forearm, and below tapers into a tendon, which may be traced down to the styloid process of the radius. The Anconeus presents a well-marked and characteristic surface form in the shape of a triangular, slightly elevated surface, immediately external to the subcutaneous posterior surface of the olecranon, and differentiated from the common extensor group by a well-marked oblique longitudinal depression. The upper angle of the triangle corre- sponds to the external condyle, and is marked by a depression or dimple in this situation. In the triangular interval, caused by the divergence from each other of the two groups of muscles into which the extensor and supinator group is divided at the lower part of the forearm, an oblique elongated eminence is seen, caused by the emergence of two of the extensors of the thumb from their deep origin at the back of the forearm. This eminence, full above, and becoming flattened out and partially subdivided below, runs downwards and outwards over the back and outer surface of the radius to the outer side of the wrist- joint, where it forms a ridge, especially marked when the thumb is extended, which passes onwards to the posterior aspect of the thumb. The tendons of most of the extensor muscles are to be seen and felt at the level of the wrist-joint. Most externally are the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the Extensor brevis pollicis, forming a vertical ridge over the outer side of the joint from the styloid process of the radius to the thumb. Internal to this is the oblique ridge produced by the tendon of the Extensor longus pollicis, very noticeable when the muscle is in action. The Extensor carpi radialis longior is scarcely to be felt, but the Extensor carpi radialis brevior can be distinctly perceived, as a vertical ridge emerging from under the inner border of the tendon of the Extensor longus pollicis, when the hand is forcibl}^ extended at the wrist. Internal to this, again, can be felt the tendons of the Extensor indicis. Extensor communis digitorum, and Extensor minimi digiti ; the latter tendon being sepa- rated from those of the common extensor by a slight furrow. The muscles of the hand are principally concerned, as far as regards surface-form, in producing the thenar and hypo- thenar eminences, and individually are not to be distinguished, on the surface, from each other The Adductor transversiis j^oUicis is, however, an exception to this; its anterior border gives rise to a ridge across the web of skin connecting the thumb to the rest of the hand. The thenar eminence is much larger and rounder than the hypothenar one, which presents a longer and narrower eminence along the ulnar side of the hand. When the Palmaris brevis is in action it produces a wrinkling of the skin over the hypothenar eminence, and a deep dimple on the ulnar border of the hand. The anterior extremities of the Lumhrica l muscles help to produce the soft eminences just behind the clefts of the fingers, separated from each other by depressions corresponding to the flexor tendons in their sheaths. Between the thenar and hypothenar eminences, at the wrist-joint, is a slight groove or depression, widening out as it approaches the fingers ; beneath this we have the strong- central part of the palmar fascia. Here we have some furrows, which are pretty constant in their arrangement, and bear some resemblance to the letter M. One of these furrows passes obliquely outwards from the groove between the thenar and hypothenar regions to the head of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. A second passes inwards, with a slight inclination upwards, from the termination of the first to the ulnar side of the hand. A third runs parallel with the second and about three-quarters of an inch below it. Lastly, crossing these two latter furrows is an oblique furrow parallel with the first. The skin of the palm of the hand differs considerably from that of the forearm. At the wrist it suddenly becomes hard and dense, and covered with a thick laj^er of cuticle. The skin in the thenar region presents these characteristics less than elsewhere. In spite of this hardness and density the skin of the palm is exceedingly sensitive and very vascular. It is destitute of hair, and no sebaceous follicles have been found in this region. Over the fingers the skin again becomes thinner, especially at the flexures of the joints, and over the terminal phalanges it is thrown into numerous parallel ridges in consequence of the arrangement of the papillae in it. The superficial fascia in the palm is made up of dense fibro-fatty tissue. This tissue binds down the skin so firmly to the deep palmar fascia that very little movement is permitted between the two. On the back of the hand, the