AETICULATIONS 352 of the leg; and at its lower part an opening for the passage of the anterior pero- neal vessels. It is continuous below with the inferior interosseous ligament; and is perforated in numerous parts for the passage of small vessels. It is in relation, in front, wdth the Tibialis anticus, Extensor longus digitorum, Extensor proprius hallucis, Peroneus tertius, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve; behind, with the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus hallucis. 3. Inferior Tibio-fibular Articulation This articulation is formed by the rough, convex surface of the inner side of the lower end of the fibula, connected with a concave rough surface on the outer side of the tibia. Below, to the extent of about two lines, these surfaces are smooth, and covered with cartilage, which is continuous with that of the ankle-joint. The ligaments of this joint are :— Anterior Inferior Tibio-fibular. Transverse. Posterior Inferior Tibio-fibular. Inferior Interosseous. The Anterior Inferior Ligament (fig. 264) is a flat, triangular band of fibres, broader below than above, which extends obliquely downwards and outwards between the adjacent margins of the tibia and fibula, on the front aspect of the articulation. It is in relation, in front, with the Peroneus tertius, the aponeurosis of the leg, and the integument; behind, with the inferior interosseous ligament; and lies in contact with the cartilage covering the astragalus. The Posterior Inferior Ligament, smaller than the preceding, is disposed in a similar manner on the posterior surface of the articulation. The Transverse Ligament is a long, narrow band, continuous with the preceding, passing transversely across the back of the joint, from the external malleolus to the posterior border of the articular surface of the tibia, almost as far as its malleolar process. This ligament projects below the margin of the bones, and forms part of the articulating surface for the astragalus. The Inferior Interosseous Ligament consists of numerous short, strong, fibrous bands, which pass between the contiguous rough surfaces of the tibia and fibula, and constitute the chief bond of union between the bones. This ligament is continuous, above, with the interosseous membrane. The Synovial Membrane lining the articular surface is derived from that of the ankle-joint. Actions.—The movement permitted in these articulations is limited to a very slight gliding of the articular surfaces one upon another. IV. Ankle-Joint The Ankle is a ginglymus, or hinge-joint. The bones entering into its form- ation are the lower extremity of the tibia and its malleolus, and the external malleolus of the fibula. These bones are united above, and form a mortise, to receive the upper convex surface of the astragalus and its two lateral facets. The bony surfaces are covered with cartilage, and connected together by a capsule, which in places forms thickened bands constituting the following ligaments :— Anterior. Internal Lateral. Posterior. External Lateral. The Anterior Tibio-tarsal Ligament (fig. 263) is a broad, thin, membranous layer, attached, above, to the margin of the articular surface of the tibia; below, to the margin of the astragalus, in front of its articular surface. It is in relation, in front, with the Extensor tendons of the toes, with the tendons of the Tibialis anticus and Peroneus tertius, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve ; behind, it lies in contact with the synovial membrane. The Posterior Tibio-tarsal Ligament is very thin, and consists principally of transverse fibres. It is attached, above, to the margin of the articular surface of the tibia, blending with the transverse tibio-fibular Ijgament; below, to the astragalus,