DEVELOPMENT OF THE UEINAEY ORGANS the heart to the lower end of the embryo. It makes its appearance below the heart and behind the common plenro-peritoneal cavity, from the mesoblast at the point of separation of its two layers into somatopleure and splanchnopleure. As this ridge is situated in front of the epiblast (reflected from the medullary cavity) ^at the side of the protovertebr^e and behind the common pleuro-peritoneal cavity, it has been named ' the intermediate cell-mass.' It is at first solid, but soon a tube is hollowed out in it, by the formation of a lumen in its most prominent part; this is the segmental duct, the greater part of which forms the Wolffian duct. As the duct is formed it sinks downwards and projects into the body- cavity. The remainder of the segmental organ, i.e. that part which is not concerned in the formation of the duct, becomes converted into tubes, which commence as branches from the duct and spread out at right angles with it. They are at first caecal, but soon acquire openings at their inner extremities into the body-cavity; the lower end of the segmental duct at the same time forming an opening into the urogenital sinus. Thus a communication is established through these tubes and duct between the pleuro-peritoneal cavity and the cloaca or hinder part of the alimentary canal. The next step is the formation of a second duct in the neighbourhood of the original duct, with which some of the tubules of the anterior part of the segmental body (pronephros) are connected. This is the Miillerian duct. The ureter which is formed later is an offshoot from the hinder part of the Wolffian duct. The structure of the Wolffian body is in many respects analogous to that of the permanent kidney (fig. 104). It is composed partly of an excretory canal or duct, into which open numerous ' conduits,' rectilinear at first, but afterwards tortuous, and partly of a cellular or glandular structure, in which Mal- pighian tufts are found. It is fixed to the diaphragm by a superior ligament, and to the spinal column by an in- ferior or lumbar ligament. Its office is the same as that of the kidneys—viz. to secrete fluid containing urea, which accumulates in the bladder. When the permanent kidneys are formed, the greater part of the Wolffian body disappears. The rest takes part in the formation of the organs of generation. The functional activity of the Wolf- fian bodies is very transitory; they attain their highest development by the sixth week, after which time they begin to decrease in size and have nearly disappeared by the end of the third month. The upper part of the segmental body, the pronephros, also undergoes atrophy and disappears. In the male, the Wolffian duct persists, and becomes converted into the vas deferens, the Miillerian duct undergoing atrophy ; a vestige of it, however, remaining as the sinus prostaticus ; whereas, on the other hand, in the female, the Miillerian duct remains and becomes converted into the whole length of the genital passages, while the Wolffian duct almost entirely disappears and remains only as a vestige. Prior to this, however, the Wolffian and Miillerian ducts (together with the ureter when formed) open into the common urogenital sinus or cloaca, which is the termination of the intestinal cavity, into which the allantois also opens in front (fig. 105). As the allantois expands into the urinary bladder this common cavity is divided ' into two by a septum, to form the bladder in front and the rectum behind. The Wolfiian and Miillerian ducts are soon connected by cellular substance into a single mass—the genital cord—in which the Wolffian ducts lay side by side in front, and the ducts of Miiller behind, at first separate, but later on uniting with each other. FiCt. 104.— Enlarged view fi^om the front of the left AVolffian body before the establish- ment of the distinction of sex. (From Farre, after Ivobelt.) a, a, b, d. Tubular structure of the Wolffian body. e. Wolffian duct. /. Its upper extremity, g. Its termination in X, the iirogenital sinus, h. The duct of Miiller. i. Its upper, still closed, extremity, k. Its lower end, termi- nating in the urogenital sinus. I. The mass of blastema for the reproductive organ, ovary or testicle.