SHOULDEK-JOINT 323 strengthens the upper part of the articular cavity, and prevents the head of the humerus from being pressed up against the acromion process, when the Deltoid contracts, instead of forming the centre of motion in the glenoid cavity. By its passage along the bicipital groove it assists in rendering the head of the humerus steady in the various movements of the arm. When the arm is raised from the side it assists the Supra- and Infraspinatus in rotating the head of the humerus in the glenoid cavity. It also holds the head of the bone firmly in contact with the glenoid cavity, and prevents its slipping over its lower edge, or being displaced by the action of the Latissimus dorsi and Pectoralis major, as in climbing and many other movements. Surface Form.—The direction and position of the shoulder-joint may be indicated by a line drawn from the middle of the coraco-acromial ligament, in a curved direction, with its convexity inwards, to the innermost part of that portion of the head of the humerus which can be felt in the axilla when the arm is forcibly abducted from the side. When the arm hangs by the side, not more than one-third of the head of the bone is in contact with the glenoid cavity, and three-quarters of its circumference is in front of a vertical line drawn from the anterior border of the acromion process. Surgical Anatomy.—Owing to the construction of the shoulder-joint and the freedom of movement which it enjoys, as well as in consequence of its exposed situation, it is more frequently dislocated than any other joint in the body. Dislocation occurs when the arm is abducted, and when, therefore, the head of the humerus presses against the lower and front part of the capsule, which is the thinnest and least supported part of the ligament. The rent in the capsule almost invariably takes place in this situation, and through it the head of the bone escapes, so that the dislocation in most instances is primarily subglenoid. The head of the bone does .not usually remain in this situation, but generally assumes some other position, which varies according to the direction and amount of force producing the dislocation and the relative strength of the muscles in front and behind the joint. In consequence of the muscles at the back being stronger than those in front, and espe- cially on account of the long head of the Triceps preventing the bone passing backwards, dislocation forwards is much more common than backwards.'^ The most frequent position which the head of the humerus ultimately assumes is on the front of the neck of the scapula, beneath the coracoid process, and hence named subcoracoid. Occasionally, in consequence probably of a greater amount of force being brought to bear on the limb, the head is driven farther mwards, and rests on the upper part of the front of the chest, beneath the clavicle (subclavicular). Sometimes it remains in the position in which it was primarily displaced, resting on the axillary border of the scapula (subglenoid), and rarely it passes backwards and remains in the infraspinatus fossa, beneath the spine (subspinous). The shoulder-joint is sometimes the seat of all those inflammatory affections, both acute and chronic, which attack joints, though perhaps less frequently than some other joints of equal size and importance. Acute synovitis may result from injury, rheumatism, or pytemia, or may follow secondarily on the so-called acute epiphysitis of infants. It is attended with effusion into the joint, and when this occurs the capsule is evenly distended, and the contour of the joint rounded. Special projections may occur at the site of the openings in the capsular ligament. Thus a swelling may appear just in front of the joint, internal to the lesser tuberosity, from effusion into the bursa beneath the Subscapularis muscle; or, again, a swelling which is sometimes bilobed may be seen in the interval between the Deltoid and Pectoralis major muscles, from effusion into the diverticulum, which runs down the bicipital groove with the tendon of the biceps. The effusion into the synovial membrane can be best ascertained by examination from the axilla, where a soft, elastic, fluctuating swelling can usually be felt. Tubercular arthritis not unfrequently attacks the shoulder-joint, and may lead to total destruction of the articulation, when ankylosis may result, or long protracted suppuration may necessitate excision. This joint is also one of those which is most liable to be the seat of osteo-arthritis, and may also be affected in gout and rheumatism ; or in locomotor ataxy, when it becomes the seat of Charcot's disease. Excision of the shoulder-joint may be required in cases of arthritis (especially the tuber- cular form) which have gone on to destruction of the articulation ; in compound dislocations and fractures, particularly those arising from gunshot injuries, in which there has been extensive injury to the head of the bone ; in some cases of old unreduced dislocation, where there is much pain; and possibly in some few cases of growth connected with the upper end of the bone. The operation is best performed by making an incision from the middle of the coraco-acromial lic^ament down the arm for about three inches : this will expose the bicij)ital groove and the tendon of the biceps, which may be either divided or hooked out of the way, according as to whether it is implicated in the disease or not. The capsule is then freely opened, and the muscles attached to the greater and lesser tuberosities of the humerus divided. The head of the bone can then be thrust out of the wound and sawn Y 2