METACARPUS 241 in front: it articulates above with the carpus, and on each side with the adjoining metacarpal bones ; its dorsal and palmar surfaces are rough, for the attachment of tendons and ligaments. The digital extremity, or head, presents an oblong surface, flattened at each side ; it articulates with the proximal phalanx ; it is broader, and extends farther forwards, in front than behind, and is longer in the antero-posterior than in the transverse diameter. On either side of the head is a tubercle for the attachment of the lateral ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The posterior surface, broad and flat, supports the Extensor tendons ; the anterior surface is grooved in the middle line for the passage of the Flexor tendons and marked on each side by an articular eminence continuous with the terminal articular surface. Peculiar Characters of the Metacarpal Bones The metacarpal "bone of the thumb is shorter and wider than the rest, diverges to a greater degree from the carpus, and its palmar surface is directed inwards towards the palm. The shaft is flattened and broad on its dorsal aspect, and does not present the ridge which is found on the other metacarpal bones ; it is concave from before backwards, on its palmar surface. The carpal extremity, or base, presents a concavo-convex surface, for articulation with the trapezium; it has no lateral facets. The digital extremity is less convex than that of the other metacarpal bones, broader from side to side than from before backwards, and terminates anteriorly in a small articular eminence on each side, over which play two sesamoid bones. The side to which this bone belongs may be known by observing the little prominence which is situated on the outer or radial side of its posterior surface just above the base, for the tendon of the Extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis. If the bone is held with the palmar surface upwards and the base towards the student, the prominence will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Another means by which the side to which the bone belongs may be ascertained is by holding it in the position it occupies in the hand, with the carpal extremity upwards and the dorsal surface backwards ; the narrower, radial border will point to the side to which it belongs. The metacarpal bone of the index finger is the longest, and its base the largest, of the other four. Its carpal extremity is prolonged upwards and inwards, forming a prominent ridge. The dorsal and palmar surfaces of this extremity are rough, for the attachment of tendons and ligaments. It presents four articular facets : three on the upper aspect of the base ; the middle one of the three is the largest, concave from side to sidej convex from before backwards, for articulation with the trapezoid ; the external one is a small, flat, quadrilateral facet, for articulation with the trapezium ; the internal one on the summit of the ridge is long and narrow, for articulation with the os magnum. The fourth facet is on the inner or ulnar side of the extremity of the bone, and is for articulation with the third metacarpal bone. The side to which this bone belongs is indicated by the absence of the lateral facet on the outer (radial) side of its base, so that if the bone is placed with its base towards the student, and the palmar surface upwards, the side on which there is no lateral facet will be that to which it belongs. The metacarpal bone of the middle finger is a little smaller than the preceding; it presents a pyramidal eminence (the styloid process) on the radial side of its base (dorsal aspect), which extends upwards behind the os magnum. The carpal, articular facet is concave behind, flat in front, and articulates with theos magnum. On the radial side is a smooth, concave facet, for articulation with the second metacarpal bone, and on the ulnar side two small, oval facets, for articulation with the fourth metacarpal. The side to which this bone belongs is easily recognised by the styloid process on the radial side of its base. With the palmar surface uppermost, and the base towards the student, this process points towards the side to which the bone belongs. R