FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION I034 The Ueethea The Urethra is a narrow membranous canal, about an inch and a half in length, extending- from the neck of the bladder to the meatus urinarius. It is placed beneath the symphysis pubis, embedded in the anterior wall of the vagina ; and its direction is obliquely downwards and forwards, its course being slightly curved, the concavity directed forwards and upwards. Its diameter when undilated is about a quarter of an inch. The urethra perforates the triangular ligament, precisely as in the male. Structure.—The urethra consists of three coats : muscular, erectile, and mucous. The muscular coat is continuous with that of the bladder ; it extends the whole length of the tube, and consists of a circular stratum of muscular fibres. In addition to this, between the two layers of the triangular ligament, the female urethra is surrounded by the Compressor urethrae, as in the male. A thin layer of spongy erectile tissue, containing a plexus of large veins, inter- mixed with bundles of unstriped muscular fibre, lies immediately beneath the mucous coat. The 7nucous coat is pale, continuous externally with that of the vulva, and internally with that of the bladder. It is thrown into longitudinal folds, one of which, placed along the floor of the canal, resembles the verumontanum in the male urethra. It is lined by laminated epithelium, which becomes transitional near the bladder. Its external orifice is surrounded by a few mucous follicles. The urethra, from not being surrounded by dense resisting structures, as in the male, admits of considerable dilatation, which enables the surgeon to remove with considerable facility calculi, or other foreign bodies, from the cavity of the bladder. The Rectum The Rectum is more capacious and less curved in the female than in the male. The first portion extends from the left sacro-iliac symphysis to the middle of the sacrum.- Its connections are similar to those in the male. The second portion extends to the tip of the coccyx. It is covered in front by the peritoneum for a short distance, at its upper part: it is in relation with the posterior wall of the vagina. The third portion curves backwards from the vagina to the anus, leaving a space which corresponds on the surface of the body to the perinseum. Its extremity is surrounded by the Sphincter muscles, and its sides are supported by the Levatores ani. INTERNAL ORGANS The Internal Organs of Generation are : the vagina, the uterus and its append- ages, the Fallopian tubes, the ovaries and their ligaments, and the round ligaments. The Vagina extends from the vulva to the uterus. It is situated in the cavity of the pelvis, behind the bladder, and in front of the rectum. Its direction is curved upwards and backwards, at first in the line of the outlet, and afterwards in that of the axis of the cavity of the pelvis. Its walls are ordinarily in contact, and its usual shape on transverse section is that of an H, the transverse limb being slightly curved forwards or backwards, whilst the lateral limbs are somewhat convex towards the median, line. Its length is about two inches along its anterior wall, and two and three-quarter inches along its posterior wall. It is constricted at its commencement, and becomes dilated medially, and narrowed near its uterine extremity ; it surrounds the vaginal portion of the cervix uteri, a short distance from the os, its attachment extending higher up on the posterior than on the anterior wall of the uterus. Relations.—Its anterior surface is in relation with the base of the bladder, and with the urethra. Its posterior surface is connected for the lower three-fourths of its extent to the anterior wall of the rectum, the upper fifth being separated from