963 FCETAL CIRCULATION the larger. The thickness of both ventricles is, at first, about equal, but towards birth the lett becomes much the thicker of the two. The foramen ovale is situated at the lower and back part of the septum auricu- larum, forming a communication between the auricles. It remains as a free oval opening, from the time of the formation of the auricular septum (about the eighth week) until the middle period of foetal life. About this period a fold grows up from the posterior wall of the auricle, to the left of the foramen ovale, and advances over the opening, so as to form a sort of valve, which allows the blood to pass only from the right to the left auricle, and not in the opposite direction. The Eustachian valve is developed from the anterior border of the inferior vena cava at its entrance into the auricle. It is directed upwards on the left side of the opening of this vein, and serves to direct the blood from the inferior vena cava through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. The peculiarities in the arterial system of the foetus are the communication between the pulmonary artery and the descending aorta by means of the ductus arteriosus, and the communication between the internal iliac arteries and the placenta by means of the umbilical arteries. The ductus arteriosus is a short tube, about half an inch in length at birth, and of the diameter of a goose-quill. In the early condition it forms the continuation of the pulmonary artery, and opens into the descending aorta, just below the origin of the left subclavian artery ; and so conducts the chief part of the blood from the right ventricle into this vessel. When the branches of the pulmonary artery have become larger relatively to the ductus arteriosus, the latter is chiefly connected to the left pulmonary artery ; and the fibrous cord, Avhich is all that remains of the ductus arteriosus in'later life, will be found to be attached to the root of that vessel. The umbilical or hypogastric arteries arise from the internal iliacs, in addition to the branches given off from those vessels in the adult. Ascending along the sides of the bladder to its fundus, they pass out of the abdomen at the umbilicus, and are continued along the umbilical cord to the placenta, coiling round the umbilical vein. They return to the placenta the blood which has circulated in the system of the foetus. The peculiarity in the venous system of the foetus is the communication esta- blished between the placenta and the liver and portal vein, through the umbilical vein ; and the inferior vena cava through the ductus venosus. FcETAL Circulation The blood destined for the nutrition of the foetus is carried from the placenta to the foetus, along the umbilical cord, by the umbilical vein. The umbilical vein enters the abdomen at the umbilicus, and passes upwards along the free margin ofjthe suspensory ligament of the liver to the under surface of that organ, where it gives off two or three branches to the left lobe, one of which is of large size ; and others to the lobus quadratus and lobulus Spigelii. At the transverse fissure it divides into two branches : of these, the larger is joined by the portal vein, and enters the right lobe ; the smaller branch continues onwards, under the name of the ductus venosus, and joins the left hepatic vein at the point of junction of that vessel with the inferior vena cava. The blood, therefore, which traverses the umbilical vein, reaches the inferior vena cava in three different ways. The greater quantity circulates through the liver with the portal venous blood, before entering the vena cava by the hepatic veins ; some enters the liver directly, and is also returned to the inferior cava by the hepatic veins : the smaller quantity passes directly into the vena cava, by the junction of the ductus venosus with the left hepatic vein. In the inferior cava, the blood carried by the ductus venosus and hepatic veins becomes mixed with that returning from the lower extremities and viscera of the abdomen. It enters the right auricle, and, guided by the Eustachian valve, passes 3 Q 2