ETHMOID BONE 157 u/Ctk Ethmoid. each side, converted into canals by articulation with the frontal; they are the anterior and posterior etJwioidal foramina, and open on the inner wall of the orbit. The posterior surface also presents large, irregular cellular cavities, which are closed in by articu- lation with the sphe- Fig. 148.—Perpendicular plate of ethmoid (enlarged), noidal turbinated bones Shown by removing the right lateral mass, and orbital process of the palate. The cells at the anterior surface are completed by the lachrymal bone and nasal process of the superior maxillary, and those below also by the superior maxillary. The outer surface of each lateral mass is formed of a thin, smooth, square plate of bone, called the OS planum; it forms part of the inner wall of the orbit, and articu- lates, above, with the orbital plate of the frontal; below, with the superior maxillary; in front, with the lachrymal; and behind, Avith the sphenoid and orbital process of the palate. From the inferior part of each lateral mass, immediately beneath the os planum, there projects downwards and backwards an irregular lamina of bone, called the unciform process, from its hook-like form: it serves to close in the upper part of the orifice of the antrum, and articulates with the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinated bone. It is often broken in disarticulating the bones. The inner surface of each lateral mass forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa of the corresponding side. It is formed of a thin lamella of bone, which descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate, and terminates below in a free, convoluted margin, the middle turbinated bone. The whole of this surface is rough, and marked above by Fig. 149.—Ethmoid bone. Inner surface of right lateral mass (enlarged). numerous grooves, which run nearly vertically downwards from the cribriform plate; they lodge branches of the olfactory nerve, which are distributed on the mucous membrane covering the bone. The back part of this surface is subdivided by a nar- row oblique fissure, the superior meatus of the nose, bounded above by a thin, curved plate of bone, the superior turhinated bone. By means of an orifice at the upper part of this fissure, the posterior ethmoidal cells open into the nose. Below, and in front of is seen the convex surface of the middle turbinated bone, whole length of the inner surface of each lateral mass; its and thick, and its concavity, directed outwards meatus. that the anterior ethmoidal cells, and through them the frontal sinuses, communi- cate with the nose, by means of a funnel-shaped canal, the infundihulum. The cellular cavities of each lateral mass, thus walled in by the os planum on the the superior meatus. It extends along the lower margin is free assists in forming the middle It is by a large orifice at the upper and front part of the middle meatus