978 OKGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION prominence between the upper borders of the two alse of the thyroid cartilage. About an inch below this, in the middle line, is a depression corresponding to the crico-thyroid space, in which the operation of laryngotomy is performed. This depression is bounded below by a prominent arch, the anterior ring of the cricoid cartilage, below which the trachea can be felt, though it is only in the emaciated adult that the separate rings can be distinguished. The lower part of the trachea is not easily made out, for as it descends in the neck it takes a deeper position, and is farther removed from the surface. The level of the vocal cords corresponds to the middle of the anterior margin of the thyroid cartilage. With the laryngoscope the following structures can be seen: The base of the tongue, and the upper surface of the epiglottis, with the glosso-epiglottic ligaments ; the superior aperture of the larynx ; bounded on either side by the aryteno-epiglottidean ligaments, in which may be seen two rounded eminences, corresponding to the cornicula and cuneiform cartilages. Beneath these the true and false vocal cords, with the ventricle between them. Still deeper, the cricoid cartilage and some of the anterior parts of the rings of the trachea, and sometimes, in deep inspiration, the bifurcation of the trachea. Surgical Anatomy.—Foreign bodies often find their way into the air-passages. These may be either large soft substances, as a piece of meat, when they become lodged in the upper aperture of the larynx, or in the rima glottidis, and cause speedy suffocation unless rapidly got rid of, or unless an opening is made into the air-passages below, so as to enable the patient to breathe. Smaller bodies, and frequently of a hard nature, such as cherry or plum stones, small pieces of bone, buttons, etc., may find their way through the rima glottidis into the trachea or bronchus, or may become lodged in the ventricle of the larynx. The dangers then depend not so much upon the mechanical obstruction, as upon the spasm of the glottis which they excite from reflex irritation. When lodged in the ventricle of the larynx, they may produce very few symptoms beyond sudden loss ot voice or alteration in the voice sounds, immediately following the inhalation of the foreign body. When, however, they are situated in the trachea, they are constantly striking against the vocal cords during expiratory efforts, and produce attacks of dyspnoea from spasm of the glottis. When lodged in the bronchus, they usually become fixed there, and, occluding the lumen of the tube, cause a loss of the respiratory murmur on the affected side, which is, as stated above, usually the right. Beneath the mucous membrane of the upper part of the air-passages, there is a considerable amount of submucous tissue, which is liable to become much swollen from effusion in inflammatory afl'ections, constituting the disease known as ' oedema of the glottis.' This effusion does not extend below the level of the vocal cords, on account of the fact that the mucous membrane is closely adherent to these structures, without the intervention of any submucous tissue. So that, in cases of this disease, in w^hich it is necessary to open the air-passages to prevent suffocation, the operation of laryngotomy is sufficient. Chronic laryngitis is an inflammation of the mucous glands of the larynx, which occurs in those who speak much in public, and is known as ' Clergyman's sore throat.' It is due to the dryness induced by the large amount of cold air drawn into the air-passages during prolonged speaking, which excites increased activity of the mucous glands to keep the parts moist, and this eventually terminates in inflammation of these structures. Ulceration of the larynx may occur from syj)hilis, either superficial ulceration, or from the softening of a gumma : from tubercular disease (laryngeal phthisis), or from malignant disease (epithelioma). The air-passages may be opened in two different situations : through the crico-thyroid membrane {laryngotomy), or in some part of the trachea (tracheotomy) ; and to these some surgeons have added a third method, by opening the crico-thyroid membrane and dividing the cricoid cartilage with the upper ring of the trachea {lary72go-tracheotomy). The student should carefully consider the relative anatomy of the air-tube in each of these situations (fig. 575). Laryngotomy is anatomicall}' the most simple operation ; it can most readily be performed, and should always be preferred when particular circumstances do not render the operation of tracheotomy absolutely necessary. The crico-thyroid membrane is very superficial, being covered only in the middle line by the skin, superficial fascia, and the deep fascia. On each side of the middle line it is also covered by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, which diverge slightly from each other at their upper parts, leaving a slight interval between them. On these muscles rests the anterior jugular vein. The only vessel of any importance in connection with this operation is the crico-thyroid artery, which crosses the crico-thyroid membrane, and which may be wounded, but rarely gives rise to any trouble. The operation is performed thus : the head being thrown back and steadied by an assistant, the finger is passed over the front of the neck, and the crico- thyroid depression felt for. A vertical incision is then made through the skin, in the middle line over this spot, and carried down through the fascia until the crico-thyroid membrane is exposed. A cross cut is then made through the membrane, close to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, so as to avoid, if possible, the crico-thyroid artery, and a tracheotomy tube introduced. It has been recommended, as a more rapid way of performing the ox:)eration, to make a transverse instead of a longitudinal cut through the