599 COMMON ILIAC The dorsal branch gives off, immediately after its origin, a spinal branch, which enters the spinal canal; it then continues its com^se backwards, between the trans- verse processes, and is distributed to the muscles and integument of the back, anastomosing with the similar branches of the adjacent lumbar arteries, and with the posterior branches of the intercostal arteries. The spinal branch enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen, to be distributed to the spinal cord and its membranes and to the bodies of the vertebrae in the same manner as the lateral spinal branches from the vertebral (see page 563). The abdominal branches pass outwards, having a variable relation to the Quadratus lumborum muscle. Most frequently the first branch passes in front of the muscle and the others behind it; sometimes the order is reversed and the lowest branch passes in front of the muscle. At the outer border of the Quadratus they are continued between the abdominal muscles, anastomose with branches of the epigastric |Lnd internal mammary in front, the intercostals above, and those of the ilio-lumbar and circumflex iliac heloiu. The Middle Sacral Artery is a small vessel, about the size of a crow-quill, which arises from the back part of the aorta, just at its bifurcation. It descends upon the last lumbar vertebra, and along the middle line of the front of the sacrum, to the upper part of the coccyx, where it anastomoses with the lateral sacral arteries, and terminates in a minute branch, which runs down to the situation of the body presently to be described as ' Luschka's gland,' From it, branches arise which run through the meso-rectum, to supply the posterior surface of the rectum. Other branches are given off on each side, which anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries, and send off small offsets, which enter the anterior sacral foramina. The artery is the representative of the caudal prolongation of the aorta of animals, and its lateral branches correspond to the intercostal and lumbar arteries in the dorsal and lumbar regions. Coccygeal Gland, or Luschka's Gland.—Lying near the tip of the coccyx in a small tendinous interval formed by the union of the Levator ani muscles of each side, and just above the coccygeal attachment of the Sphincter ani, is a small conglobate body, about as large as a lentil or a pea, first described by Luschka,* and named by him the coccygeal gland. Its most obvious connections are with the arteries of the part. Structure.—It consists of a congeries of small arteries with little aneurismal dilatations, derived from the middle sacral, and freely communicating with each other. These vessels are enclosed in one or more layers of polyhedral granular cells, and the whole structure is invested in a capsule of connective tissue which sends in trabeculae, dividing the interior into a number of spaces in which the vessels and cells are contained. Nerves pass into this little body from the sympathetic, but their mode of termination is unknown. Macalister believes the glomerulus of vessels ' consists of the condensed and convoluted metameric dorsal arteries of the caudal segments embedded in tissue which is possibly a small persisting fragment of the neurenteric canal.' Common Iliac Akteeies The abdominal aorta divides into the two common iliac arteries. The bifurca- tion usually takes place on the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. This point corresponds to the left side of the umbilicus, and is on a level with a line drawn from the highest point of one iliac crest to the other. The common iliac arteries are about two inches in length ; diverging from the termination of the aorta, they pass downwards and outwards to the margin of the pelvis, and divide opposite the intervertebral substance, between the last lumbar vertebra, * Der Hirnanliang ttnd die Steissdrilse des Menschen, Berlin, i860; Anatomie des Menschen, Tubingen, 1864, vol. ii. pt. 2, p. 187.