THE PERINiEUM T069 The Perineum in the Male The perineal s^Dace is of a triangular form ; its deep boundaries are limited, laterally, by the rami of the pubic bones and ischia, meeting, in front, at the pubic arch ; behind, by an imaginary transverse line, extending between the tuberosities of the ischia. The lateral boundaries are, in the adult, from three inches to three inches and a half in length ; and the base from two to three inches and a half in breadth ; the average extent of the space being two inches and three-quarters. The variations in the diameter of this space are of extreme interest in connection with the operation of lithotomy, and the extraction of a stone from the cavity of the bladder. In those cases where the tuberosities of the ischia are near together it would be necessary to make the incisions in the lateral operation of lithotomy less oblicxue than if the tube- rosities were widely separated, and the perineal space, consequently, wider. The peringeum is subdivided by the median raphe into two equal parts. Of these, the left is the one in which the operation of lithotomy is performed. In the middle line the perinaeum is convex, and corresponds to the bulb of the urethra. The skin covering it is of a dark colour, thin, freely movable upon the subjacent parts, and covered with sharp crisp hairs, which should be removed before the dissection of the part is commenced. In front of the anus a prominent line commences, the raphe, continuous in front with the raphe of the scrotum. Upon removing the skin and superficial structures from this region, in the manner shown in fig. 631, a plane of fascia will be exposed, covering in the triangular space and stretching across from one ischio-pubic ramus to the other. This is the deep layer of the superficial fascia oy fascia of Golles. It has already been described (page 438). It is a layer of considerable strength, and encloses and covers a space in which are contained muscles, vessels, and nerves. It is continuous, in front, with the dartos of the scrotum ; on each side, it is firmly attached to the margin of the ischio-pubic ramus and to the tuberosity of the ischium ; and posteriorly it curves down behind the Trans versus perinaei muscles to join the lower margin of the deep perineal fascia. It is between this layer of fascia and the next layer, the superficial layer of the deep perineal fascia, that extravasation of urine most frequently takes place in cases of rupture of the urethra. The superficial layer of the deep perineal fascia (see page 441) is also attached to the ischio-pubic rami, and in front to the subpubic ligament. It is clear, therefore, that when extravasation of fluid takes place between these two layers, it cannot pass backwards, because the two layers are continuous with each other around the Transversus perinaei muscles ; it cannot extend laterally, on account of the connection of both these layers to the rami of the os pubis and ischium ; it cannot find its way into the pelvis, because the opening into this cavity is closed by the deep perineal fascia, and, therefore, so long as these two layers remain intact, the only direction in which the fluid can make its way is forwards into the areolar tissue of the scrotum and penis, and from thence on to the anterior wall of the abdomen. When the deep layer of the superficial fascia is removed, a space is exposed, between this fascia and the deep perineal fascia, in which are contained most of the branches of the internal pudic artery, with their accompanying veins; the terminal branches of the internal pudic nerve; some of the muscles connected with the penis and urethra ;-r—in the middle line, the Accelerator urin£e ; on each side, the Erector penis; and behind, the Transversus perinaei;—the crura of the corpora cavernosa; and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. Here also is seen the central tendinous 'point of the perincBum. This is a fibrous point in the middle line of the perinaeum between the urethra and the rectum, being about half an inch in front of the anus. At this point five muscles converge and are attached : viz. the External sphincter ani, the Acceleratores urinae, and the two Transversi perin^i muscles ; so that by the contraction of these muscles, which extend in opposite directions, it serves as a fixed point of support. The Accelerator urinae, the Erector penis, and the Transversus perinEei muscles have been already described (page 439). They form a triangular space, bounded, internally, by the Accelerator urinae ; externally, by the Erector penis; and behind, by the Transversus perinaei. The floor of this space is formed by the triangular