5o6 MUSCLES AND FASCIA movement. The Tibialis posticus is a direct extensor of the tarsus upon the leg ; acting in conjunction with the Tibialis anticus, it turns the sole of the foot inwards, antagonising the Peroneus longus, which turns it outwards. The Flexor longus digitorum and Flexor longus hallucis are the direct Flexors of the phalanges, and, continuing their action, extend the foot upon the leg ; they assist the Gastrocnemius and Soleus in extending the foot, as in the act of walking, or in standing on tiptoe. In consequence of the oblique direction of the tendon of the long flexor, the toes would be drawn inwards, were it not for the Flexor accessorius muscle, which is inserted into the outer side of its tendon, and draws it to the middle line of the foot during its action. Taking their fixed point from the foot, these muscles serve to maintain the upright posture by steadying the tibia and fibula, perpendicularly, upon the ankle-joint. They also serve to raise these bones from the oblique position they assume in the stooping posture. Outer or Fibular Eegion Peroneus longus. Peroneus brevis. Dissection.—The muscles are readily exposed, by removing the fascia covering their surface, from below upwards, in the line of direction of their fibres. The Peroneus longus is situated at the upper part of the outer side of the leg, and is the more superficial of the two muscles. It arises from the head, and upper two-thirds of the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula, from the deep surface of the fascia, and from the intermuscular septa, between it and the muscles on the front, and those on the back of the leg. It terminates in a long tendon, which passes behind the outer malleolus, in a groove common to it and the Peroneus brevis, the groove being converted into a canal by a fibrous band, and the tendons invested by a common synovial membrane ; it is then reflected, obliquely forwards, across the outer side of the os calcis, being contained in a separate fibrous sheath, lined by a prolongation of the synovial membrane from that which lines the groove behind the malleolus. Having reached the outer side of the cuboid bone, it runs in a groove on the under surface of that bone, which is converted into a canal by the long calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and is lined by a synovial membrane : the tendon then crosses obliquely the sole of the foot, and is inserted into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe and the internal cuneiform bone. Occasionally it sends a slip to the base of the second metatarsal bone. The tendon changes its direction at two points : first, behind the external malleolus; secondly, on the outer side of the cuboid bone; in both of these situations the tendon is thickened, and, in the latter, a sesamoid fibro-cartilage, or sometimes a bone, is usually developed in its substance. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the fascia and integument; by its deep surface, with the fibula, the Peroneus brevis, os calcis, and cuboid bone ; by its anterior border, with an intermuscular septum, which intervenes between it and the Extensor longus digitorum ; by its posterior border, with an intermuscular septum, which separates it from the Soleus above, and the Flexor longus hallucis below. The Peroneus brevis lies beneath the Peroneus longus, and is shorter and smaller than it. It arises from the lower two-thirds of the external surface of the shaft of the fibula, internal to the Peroneus longus ; and from the intermuscular septa separating it from the adjacent muscles on the front and back part of the leg. The fibres pass vertically downwards, and terminate in a tendon, which runs in front of that of the preceding muscle through the same groove, behind the external malleolus, being contained in the same fibrous sheath, and lubricated by the same synovial membrane. It then passes through a separate sheath on the outer side of the os calcis, above that for the tendon of the Peroneus longus, and is finally inserted into the tuberosity at the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, on its outer side. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Peroneus longus and the fascia