940 . ORGANS OF DIGESTION orifices of tubular recesses. They occasionally anastomose, and from the sides of them saccular dilatations are given off. Surface Form.—The liver is situated in the right hypochondriac and the epigastric regions, and is moulded to the arch of the Diaphragm. In the greater part of its extent it lies under cover of the lower ribs and their cartilages, but in the epigastric region it comes in contact with the abdominal wall, in the subcostal angle. The ujpjjer limit of the right lohe of the liver may be defined by a line drawn from the articulation of the fifth right costal cartilage to the sternum horizontally outwards to a little below the nipple, and then inclined downwards to reach the seventh rib at the side of the chest. The up^^^r limit of the left lohe may be defined by continuing this line to the left with an inclination downwards as it crosses the gladiolus, to a point about two inches to the left of the sternum on a level with the sixth left costal cartilage. The loiver limit of the liver ma}* be indicated by a line drawn half an inch below the lower border of the thorax on the right side as far as the ninth right costal cartilage, and thence obliquely upwards across the subcostal angle to the eighth left costal cartilage. A slight curved line with its convexity to the left from this point, i.e. the eighth left costal cartilage, to the termination of the line indicating the upper limit, will denote the left margin of the liver. The fmidus of the gall-bladder approaches the surface behind the anterior extremity of the ninth costal cartilage, close to the outer margin of the Right rectus muscle. It must be remembered that the liver is subject to considerable alterations in position, and the student should make himself acquainted with the different circumstances under which this occurs, as they are of importance in determining the existence of enlargement or other diseases of the organ. Its position varies according to the posture of the body. In the erect position in the adult male, the edge of the liver projects about half an inch below the lower edge of the right costal cartilages, and its anterior border can be often felt in this situation if the abdominal wall is thin. In the supine position the liver gravitates backwards, and recedes above the lower margin of the ribs and cannot then be detected b^^ the finger. In the prone position it falls forward, and can then generally be felt in a patient with loose and lax abdominal walls. Its position varies also with the ascent or descent of the Diaphragm. In a deep inspiration the liver descends below the ribs; in expiration it is raised behind them. Again, in emphysema, where the lungs are distended, and the Diaphragm descends very low, the liver is pushed down ; in some other diseases, as phthisis, where the Dia- phragm is much arched, the liver rises very high up. Pressure from without, as in tight- lacing, by compressing the lower part of the chest, displaces the liver considerably: its anterior edge often extending as low as the crest of the ileum; and its convex surface is often at the same thne deeply indented from the pressure of the ribs. Again, its position varies greatly according to the greater or less distension of the stomach and intestines. When the intestines are empty, the liver descends in the abdomen; but when they are distended, it is pushed upwards. Its relations to surrounding organs may also be changed by the growth of tumours, or by collections of fluid in the thoracic or'abdominal cavities. Surgical Anatomy.—On account of its large size, its fixed position, and its friability, the liver is more frequently ruptured than any of the abdominal viscera. The rupture may vary considerably in extent, from a slight scratch to an extensive laceration completely through its substance, dividing it into two parts. Sometimes an internal rupture, without laceration of the peritoneal covering, takes place, and such injuries are most susceptible of repair ; but small tears of the surface may also heal; when, however, the laceration is extensive, death usually takes place from haemorrhage, on account of the fact that the hepatic veins are contained in rigid canals in the liver-substance and are unable to contract, and are moreover unprovided with valves. The liver may also be torn by the end of a broken rib perforating the Diaphragm. The liver may be injured by stabs or other punctured wounds, and when these are inflicted through the chest wall, both pleural and peritoneal cavities may be opened up, and both lung and liver be wounded. In cases of wound of the liver from the front, hernia of a part of this viscus may take place, but can generally easily be replaced. Abscess of the liver is of not unfrequent occurrence, and may open in many different ways on account of the relations of this viscus to other organs. Thus it has been known to burst into the lungs, and the pus been coughed up or into the stomach and the pus vomited; it may burst into the colon, or into the duodenum; or, by perforating the Diaphragm, it may empty itself into the pleural cavity. Frequently it makes its way forwards, and points on the anterior abdominal wall, and finallj^ it may burst into the peritoneal or pericardiac cavities. Abscesses of the liver frequently require opening, and this should be done preferably by an incision in the right semilunar line, in two stages : the peritoneal cavity being opened and the liver over the summit of the abscess being stitched to the parietal peritoneum on the first occasion, and three or four days subsequently the abscess being evacuated. Hydatid cysts are more often found in the liver than in any other of the viscera. The reason of this is not far to seek. The embryo of the egg of the taenia echinococcus, being liberated in the stomach by the disintegration of its shell, bores its way through the gastric walls and usually enters a blood-vessel, and is carried by the blood-stream to the