ARTICULATIONS 288 of the cartilages ; but in the adult it is wanting, excepting at their circumference, upon which it encroaches for a short distance and to which it is firmly attached : it then invests the inner surface of the capsular or other ligaments enclosing the joint and is reflected over the surface of any tendons passing through its cavity, as the tendon of the Popliteus in the knee, and the tendon of the Biceps in the shoulder. Hence the articular synovial membrane may be regarded as a short wide tube, attached by its open ends to the margins of the articular cartilages and covering the inner surface of the various ligaments which connect the articular surfaces, so that along with the cartilages it completely encloses the joint cavity. In some of the joints the synovial membrane is thrown into folds, which pass across the cavity. They are called synovial ligaments, and are especially distinct in the knee. In other joints there are flattened folds, subdivided at their margins into fringe-like processes, the vessels of which have a convoluted arrangement. These latter generally project from the synovial membrane near the margin of the cartilage, and lie Hat upon its surface. They consist of connective tissue, covered with endothelium, and contain fat-cells in variable quantities, and, more rarely, isolated cartilage-cells. The larger folds often contain considerable quantities of fat. They were described, by Clopton Havers, as mucilaginous glands, and as the source of the synovial secretion. Under certain diseased conditions, similar processes are found covering the entire surface of the synovial membrane, forming a mass of pedunculated fibro-fatty growths, which project into the joint. Similar structures are also found in some of the bursal and vaginal synovial membranes. The bursal synovial membranes are found interposed between surfaces which move upon each other, producing friction, as in the gliding of a tendon, or of the integument over projecting bony surfaces. They admit of subdivision into two kinds, the bursce mucosce and the burscB synovice. The bursce mucosce are large, simple, or irregular cavities in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, enclosing a clear viscid fluid. They are found in various situations, as between the integument and the front of the patella, over the olecranon, the malleoli, and other prominent parts. The bursce synovice are found interposed between muscles or tendons as they play over projecting bony surfaces, as between the Glutei muscles and the surface of the great trochanter. They consist of a thin wall of connective tissue, partially covered by patches of cells, and contain a viscid fluid. Where one of these exists in the neighbourhood of a joint, it usually communicates with its cavity, as is gene- rally the case with the bursa between the tendon of the Psoas and Iliacus and the capsular ligament of the hip, or the one interposed between the under surface of the Subscapularis and the neck of the scapula. Th.Q vaginal synovial membranes {synovial sheaths) serve to facilitate the gliding of tendons in the osseo-fibrous canals through which they pass. The membrane is here arranged in the form of a sheath, one layer of which adheres to the wall of the canal, and the other is reflected upon the surface of the contained tendon ; the space between the two free surfaces of the membrane being partially filled with synovia. These sheaths are chiefly found surrounding the tendons of the flexor and extensor muscles of the fingers and toes, as they pass through the osseo-fibrous canals in the hand or foot. Synovia is a transparent, yellowish-white, or slightly reddish fluid, viscid like the white of egg, having an alkaline reaction and slightly saline taste. It consists, according to Frerichs, in the ox, of 94*85 water, 0-56 mucus and epithelium, 0*07 fat, 3*51 albumen and extractive matter, and 0*99 salts. The articulations are divided into three classes: synarthrosis, or immovable ; amphiarthrosis, or mixed ; and diarthrosis, or movable joints. I. Synaethkosis. Immovable Articulations Synarthrosis includes all those articulations in which the surfaces of the bones are in almost direct contact, fastened together by an intervening mass of connective tissue, and in which there is no appreciable motion, as the joints between the bones