CRANIAL NERVES 766 from both plexuses accompany the ramifications of the air-tnbes through the substance of the hmgs. The oesophageal branches are given off from the pneumogastric both above and below the pulmonarv branches. The lower are more numerous and larger than the upper. They form, together with branches from the opposite nerve, the oesophageal plexus or plexus gulce. The gastric branches are the terminal filaments of the pneumogastric nerve. The nerve on the right side is distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach, and joins the left side of the coeliac plexus and the splenic plexus. The nerve on the left side is distributed over the anterior surface of the stomach, some filaments passing across the great cul-de-sac, and others along the lesser curvature. They unite with branches of the right nerve and with the sympathetic, some fila- ments passing through the lesser omentum to the hepatic plexus. Surgical Anatom ij.—The lai-yngeal nerves are of considerable importance in consider- ing some of the morbid conditions of the larynx. AVhen the peripheral terminations of the superior laryngeal nerve are irritated by some foreign body passing over them, reflex spasm of the glottis is the result. When the trunk of this same nerve is pressed upon, by, for instance, a goitre or an aneurism of the upper part of the carotid, we have a peculiar dry, brassy cough. When the nerve is paralysed, we have anaesthesia of the mucous membrane of the larynx, so that foreign bodies can readily enter the cavity, and, in consequence of its supplying the crico-thyroid muscle, the vocal cords cannot be made tense, and the voice is deep and hoarse. Paralysis of the superior laryngeal nerves may be the result of bulbar paralysis, may be a sequel to diphtheria when both nerves are usually involved, or it may, though less commonly, be caused by the pressure of tumours or aneurisms, when the paralysis is generally unilateral. Irritation of the inferior laryngeal nerves produces spasm of the muscles of the larynx. When both these recurrent nerves are paralysed, the vocal cords are motionless, in the so-called ' cadaveric position' —that is to say, in the position in which they are found in ordinary tranquil respiration; neither closed as in phonation, nor open as in deep inspiratory efforts. When one recurrent nerve is paralysed, the cord of the same side is motionless, while the opposite one crosses the middle line to accommodate itself to the affected one; hence phonation is present, but the voice is altered and weak in timbre. The recurrent laryngeal nerves may be paralysed in bulbar paralysis or after diphtheria, when it usually affects both sides; or they may be affected by the pressure of aneurisms of the aorta, innominate or subclavian arteries ; by mediastinal tumours ; by bronchocele ; or by cancer of the upper part of the oesophagus, when the paralysis is often unilateral. Eleventh Pair (figs. 452, 453) The Eleventh or Spinal Accessory Nerve consists of two parts: one, the accessory part to the vagus, and the other the spinal portion. The accessory part is the smaller of the two. Its superficial origin is by four or five delicate filaments from the side of the medulla, below the roots of the vagus. Its deep origin may be traced to a nucleus of grey matter at the back of the medulla, extending from the level of the top of the calamus scriptorius as far down as the intermedio-lateral tract of the spinal cord. It passes outwards to the jugular foramen, Avhere it joins with the spinal portion and with the upper ganglion of the vagus by one or two filaments ; and is then continued over the surface of this ganglion to join the trunk of the vagus, after its exit from the jugular foramen. The fibres of the accessory part then pass unchanged through the inferior ganglion, or ganglion of the trunk of the vagus, to be distributed principally to the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric. Through the pharyngeal branch it probably supplies the muscles of the soft palate (see page 400). Some few filaments from it are continued into the trunk of the vagus below the ganglion, to be distributed with the recurrent laryngeal nerve and probably also with the cardiac nerves. The spinal portion is firm in texture. Its superficial origin is by several filaments from the lateral tract of the cord, as low down as the sixth cervical nerve. Its deep origin may be traced to the intermedio-lateral tract of the grey matter of the cord. This portion of the nerve ascends between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, enters the skull through