THE SKELETON 224 Fig. 199.—Plan of the development of the humerus. Bv seven centres. Epiphyses of head and tuberosities blend at fifth year, and unite 'with shaft a,t twen- tieth year greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; it is broader and deeper on the posterior than on the anterior aspect of the bone, and is inclined obliquely from behind forwards, and from without inwards. Above the front part of the trochlear surface is seen a smaller depression, the corouoid fossa, which receives the coronoid process of the ulna during flexion of the fore-arm. Above the back part of the trochlear surface is a deep, triangular depression, the olecranon fossa, in which is received the summit of the olecranon process in extension of the forearm. These fossae are separated from one another by a thin, transparent lamina of bone, which is sometimes perforated, forming the swpratrocliJear forai}ien \ their upper margins afford attachment to the anterior and posterior ligaments of the elbow-joint, and they are lined, in the recent state, by the synovial membrane of this articulation. The articular surfaces, in the recent state, are covered with a thin layer of cartilage. The external condyle is a small, tubercular eminence, less prominent than the internal, curved a little forwards, and giving attachment to the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, and to a tendon common to the origin of some of the extensor and supinator muscles. The internal condyle, larger and more prominent than the external, is directed a little backwards : it gives attach- ment to the internal lateral ligament, to the Pronator radii teres, and to a tendon common to the origin of some of the flexor muscles of the forearm. The ulnar nerve runs in a groove at the back of the internal condyle, or between it and the olecranon process. These emin- ences are directly continuous above with the external and internal borders —i.e. the external and internal condy- loid ridges. The great prominence of the inner one renders it more liable to fracture. Structure.—The extremities consist of cancellous tissue, covered with a thin, compact layer ; the shaft is com- posed of a cylinder of compact tissue, thicker at the centre than at the ex- tremities, and hollowed out by a large medullary canal, which extends along its whole length. Development.—By seven, or occa- sionally eight, centres (fig. 199): one for the shaft, one for the head, one for the tuberosities, one for the radial head, one for the trochlear portion of the articular surface, and one for each condyle. The nucleus for the shaft appears near the centre of the bone in the eighth week, and soon extends to- wards the extremities. At birth the humerus is ossified nearly in its whole length, the extremities remaining car- tilaginous. At the beginning of the second year ossification commences in the head of the bone, and during the third year the centre for the tuberosities makes its appearance, usually by a single ossific point, but sometimes, according to Beclard, by one for each tuberosity, that for the lesser being small, and not appearing until the fifth year. By the sixth year the centres for the head and tuberosities have enlarged and become joined, so as to form a single large epiphysis. The lower end of the humerus is developed in the following manner :—At the end of the second year ossification commences in the radial portion of the Unites with shaft 1 f, at eighteenth year > '