8oo SPINAL NEEVES The branches to the Pectineus, usually two in number, i^ass inwards behind the femoral vessels, and enter the muscle on its anterior surface. Sometimes one of these nerves is given off in the pelvis, and is then often united with the accessory obturator. The hrancli to the Rectus viuscle enters its under surface high up, sending oft' a small filament to the hip-joint. The hranch to the Vastus externus, of large size, follows the course of the descending branch of the external circumflex artery to the lower part of the muscle. It gives off an articular filament to the knee-joint. The branch to the Vastus internus is a long branch which runs down on the outer side of the femoral vessels in company with the internal saphenous nerve for its upper part. It enters the muscle about its middle, and gives off a filament, which can usually be traced downwards on the surface of the muscle to the knee- joint. The branch to the Grureus enters the muscle on its anterior surface about the middle of the thigh, and sends a filament through the muscle to the Subcrureus. The articular branch to the hip-joint is derived from the nerve to the Rectus. The articular branches to the knee-joint are two in number. One, a long, slender filament, is derived from the nerve to the Vastus externus. It penetrates the capsular ligament of the joint on its anterior aspect. The other is derived from the nerve to the Vastus internus. It can usually be traced downwards on the surface of this muscle to near the joint; it then penetrates the muscular fibres, and accompanies the deep branch of the anastomotica magna artery, pierces the capsular ligament of the joint on its inner side, and supplies the synovial membrane. THE SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES The sacral nerves are five in number on each side. The four upper ones pass from the sacral canal, through the sacral foramina ; the fifth through the foramen between the sacrum and coccyx. The roots of origin of the tipper sacral [and lumbar) nerves are the largest of all the spinal nerves ; whilst those of the lowest sacral and coccygeal nerve are the smallest. The roots of these nerves are of very considerable length, being longer than those of any of the other spinal nerves, on account of the spinal cord not extending beyond the first lumbar vertebra. From their great length, ajid the appearance they present in connection with the spinal cord, the roots of origin of these nerves are called collectively the cauda equina. Each sacral and coccygeal nerve divides into two divisions, posterior and anterior. The posterior divisions of the sacral nerves (fig. 468) are small, diminish in size from above downwards, and emerge, except the last, from the sacral canal by the posterior sacral foramina. The three upper ones are covered, at their exit from the sacral canal, by the Multifidus spinse, and divide into internal and external branches. The internal branches are small, and supply the Multifidus spins. The external branches join with one another, and with the last lumbar and fourth sacral nerves, by means of communicating loops. These branches pass out- wards to the outer surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they form a second series of loops beneath the Gluteus maximus. Cutaneous branches from this second series of loops, usually three in number, pierce the Gluteus maximus : one near the posterior inferior spine of the ilium ; another opposite the end of the sacrum ; and the third midway between the other two. They supply the integu- ment over the posterior part of the gluteal region. posterior divisions of the tioo lower sacral nerves are situated below the Multifidus spin^e. They are of small size, and do not divide into internal and external branches, but join with each other, and with the coccygeal nerve, so as