MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 4o8 angle of the scapula. This muscle at its insertion gives off an expansion to the deep fascia of the arm. X muscular slip, varyiug from 3 to 4 inches in length, and from ^ to | of an inch in breadth, occasionally arises from the upper edge of the Latissimus dorsi about the middle of the posterior fold of the axilla, and crosses the axilla in front of the axillary vessels and nerves, to join the under surface of the tendon of the Pectoralis major, the Coraco-brachialis, or the fascia over the Biceps. The position of this abnormal slip is a point of interest in its relation to the axillary artery, as it crosses the vessel just above the spot usually selected for the application of a ligature, and may mislead the surgeon during the operation. It may be easily recognised by the transverse direction of its fibres. Dr. Struther found it, in 8 out of 105 subjects, occurring seven times on both sides. Eelations.—Its suijerficial surface is subcutaneous, excepting at its upper part, where it is covered by the Trapezius, and at its insertion, where its tendon is crossed by the axillary vessels and the brachial plexus of nerves. By its deep surface, it is in relation with the Lumbar fascia, the Serratus posticus inferior, the lower external intercostal muscles and ribs, inferior angle of the scapula, Ehom- boideus major, Infraspinatus, and Teres major. Its outer margin is separated below from the External oblique by a small triangular interval; and another triangular interval exists between its upper border and the margin of the Trapezius, in which the Ehomboideus major muscle is exposed. Nerves.—^The Trapezius is supplied by the spinal accessory, and by branches from the anterior divisions of the third and fourth cervical nerves ; the Latissimus dorsi by the middle or long subscapular nerve. Second Layee Levator anguli scapulae. Ehomboideus minor. Ehomboideus major. Dissection.—The Trapezius must be removed, in order to expose the next layer ; to effect this, detach the muscle from its attachment to the clavicle and spine of the scapula, and turn it back towards the spine. The Levator anguli scapulae is situated at the back part and side of the neck. It arises by tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrae ; these, becoming fleshy, are united so as to form a flat muscle, which, passing downwards and backwards, is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula, between the superior angle and the triangular smooth surface at the root of the spine. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the integument, Trapezius, and Sterno-mastoid. By its deep surface, with the Splenius colli, Transversalis colli, Cervicalis ascendens, and Serratus posticus superior muscles, and with the trans- versalis colli and posterior scapular arteries. The Ehomboideus minor arises from the ligamentum nuchae and spinous processes of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebra. Passing downwards and outwards, it is inserted into the margin of the triangular smooth surface at the root of the spine of the scapula. This small muscle is usually separated from the Ehomboideus major by a slight cellular interval. Relations.—By its superficial (posterior) surface, with the Trapezius. By its dee2) surface, with the same structures as the Ehomboideus major. The Rhomboideus major is situated immediately below the preceding, the adjacent margins of the two being occasionally united. It arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrae and the supraspinous ligament, and is inserted into a narrow tendinous arch, attached above to the lower part of the triangular surface at the root of the spine ; below, to the inferior angle, the arch being connected to the border of the scapula by a thin membrane. When the arch extends, as it occasionally does, but a short distance, the muscular fibres are inserted into the scapula itself.