CARDIAC 659 The g^astric veins are two in number : one, a small vein, corresponds to the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery ; the other, considerably larger, corresponds to the gastric artery. The former {'pyloric, Walsham) rmis along the. lesser cm^- vatm'e of the stomach towards the pyloric end, receives branches from the pylorus and duodenum, and ends in the vena port^e. The latter {coronary, Walsham) begins near the pylorus, runs along the lesser curvature of the stomach, towards the oesophageal opening, and then curves downwards and backwards between the folds of the lesser omentum to end in the vena portse. The Portal Vein is formed by the junction of the superior mesenteric and splenic veins, their union taking place in front of the vena cava, and behind the upper border of the great end of the pancreas. Passing upwards through the right border of the lesser omentum to the under surface of the liver, it enters the transverse fissure, where it is somewhat enlarged, forming the sinus of the portal vein, and divides into two branches, which accompany the ramifications of the hepatic artery and hepatic duct throughout the substance of the liver. Of these two branches the right is the larger, but the shorter, of the two. The portal vein is about three or four inches in length, and, whilst contained in the lesser omentum, lies behind and between the hepatic duct and artery, the former being to the right, the latter to the left. These structures are accompanied by filaments of the hepatic plexus of nerves, and numerous lymphatics, surrounded by a quantity of loose areolar tissue {capsule of Glisson), and placed between the layers of the lesser omentum. The vena port^e receives the gastric and cystic veins : the latter vein sometimes terminates in the right branch of the vena ports. Within the liver, the portal vein receives the blood from the branches of the hepatic artery. Cardiac Veins The veins which return the blood from the substance of the heart are, the Anterior Cardiac Vein. Right Cardiac Veins. Posterior Cardiac Vein. Right or Small Coronary Sinus. Left Cardiac Veins. Left or Great Coronary Sinus. Vens Thebesii. The Anterior Cardiac Vein (sometimes called Great Cardiac Vein) is a vessel of considerable size, which commences at the apex of the heart, and ascends along the anterior interventricular groove to the base of the ventricles. It then curves to the left side, around the auriculo-ventricular groove, between the left auricle and ventricle, to the back part of the heart, and opens into the great coronary sinus, its aperture being guarded by two valves. It receives, in its course, tributaries from both ventricles, but especially the left, and also from the left auricle ; one of these, ascending along the thick margin of the left ventricle, is of considerable size. The vessels joining it are provided with valves. The Posterior Cardiac Vein commences by small tributaries, at the apex of the heart, jcommunicating with those of the preceding. It ascends along the posterior interventricular groove to the base of the heart, and terminates in the great coronary sinus, its orifice being guarded by a valve. It receives the veins from the posterior surface of both ventricles. The Left Cardiac Veins are three or four small vessels, which collect the blood from the posterior surface of the left ventricle, and open into the lower border of the great coronary sinus. The Right Cardiac Veins are three or four small vessels, which collect the blood from the anterior surface of the right ventricle. One of these (the vein of tion between the gastric veins and the cesophageal veins which empty themselves into the vena azygos minor ; between the left renal vein and the veins of the intestines, especially of the colon and duodenum ; between the veins of the round ligament of the liver and the portal veins ; and between the superficial branches of the portal veins of the livef and the phrenic veins, as pointed out by Mr. Kiernan. (See Pliysiological Anatomy, by Todd and Bowman, 1859, vol. ii. p. 348.) u u 2