PLANTAR REGION OF THE FOOT. FOURTH LAYER 513 is inserted, together with the outer portion of the Flexor brevis hallucis, into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The small muscles of the great toe, the Abductor, Flexor brevis, Adductor obliquus, and Adductor transversus, like the similar muscles of the thumb, give off fibrous expansions, at their insertions, to blend with the long Extensor tendon. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti hes on the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and much resembles one of the Interossei. It arises from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and from the sheath of the Peroneus longus; its tendon is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe on its outer side. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the plantar fascia and tendon of the Abductor minimi digiti. By its deei:) surface, with the fifth metatarsal bone. The Adductor transversus hallucis (Transversusxiedis) is a narrow, flat, muscular fasciculus, stretched transversely across the heads of the metatarsal bones, between them and the flexor tendons. It arises from the inferior metatarso-phalangeal ligaments of the three outer toes, sometimes only from the third and fourth and from the transverse ligament of the metatarsus ; and is inserted into the outer side Fig. 336.—The Dorsal interossei. Fig. 337.—The Plantar interossei. Left foot. Left foot. of the first phalanx of the great toe ; its fibres being blended with the tendon of insertion of the Adductor obliquus hallucis. Relations.—By its stii^erficial surface, with the tendons of the long and short Flexors and Lumbricales. By its cleeiJ surface, with the Interossei. Fourth Layer The Interossei. The Interossei muscles in the foot are similar to those in the hand, with this exception, that they are grouped around the middle line of the second toe, instead of the middle line of the third finger, as in the hand. They are seven in number, and consist of two groups, dorsal and plantar. The Dorsal interossei, four in number, are situated between the metatarsal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metatarsal bones between which they are placed ; their tendons are L L