ORGANS OF DIGESTION 928 coat, as in the a^^opha^us. ^^'llen the lower part of the rectum is contracted, its mucous membrane is thrown into a number of folds, some of which, near the anus, are longitudinal in direction, and are effaced by the distension of the gut. Besides these there are certain permanent folds, of a semilunar shape, known as Houston's valves.* They are usually three in number ; sometimes a fourth is found, and occasionally only two are present. One is situated near the commencement of the rectum, on the right side ; another extends inwards from the left side of the tube, opposite the middle of the sacrum ; the largest and most constant one projects back- wards from the fore part of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder. When a fourth is present, it is situated about an inch above the anus on the back of the rectum. These folds are about half an inch in width, and contain some of the circular fibres of the gut. In the empty state of the intestine they overlap each other, as Mr. Houston remarks, so effectually as to require considerable manoeuvring to conduct a bougie or the finger along the canal of the intestine. Their use seems to be, ' to support the weight of ffecal matter, and prevent its urging towards the anus, where its presence always excites a sensation demanding its discharge.' As in the small intestine, the mucous membrane consists of a muscular layer, the muscularis mucosa?; of a quantity of retiform tissue in which the vessels ramify ; of a basement membrane and epithelium, which is of the columnar variety, and exactly resembles the epithelium found in the small intestine. The mucous membrane of this portion of the bowel presents for examination simple follicles and solitary glands. The sijujjle foiliclcs 'Are minute tubular prolongations of the mucous membrane, arranged perpendicularly, side by side, over its entire surface ; they are longer, more numerous, and placed in much closer apposition than those of the small intestine ; and they open by minute rounded orifices upon the surface, giving it a cribriform appearance. The solitary glands (fig. 545) in the large intestine are most abundant in the ccecum and appendix vermiformis, but are irregularly scattered also over the rest of the intestine. They are similar to those of the small intestine. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the large intestine give off large branches, which ramify between the muscular coats, supplying them, and, after dividing into small vessels in the submucous tissue, pass to the mucous membrane. In the lower part of the rectum, however, the arrangement is somewhat different. Here the vessels run in a longitudinal direction, parallel with each other, to the external orifice, where they are joined by large transverse branches. In their course they communicate with each other. The veins of the rectum form an intricate interlacement (the Juemorrhoidal plexus), and, ]3ursuing from it a longitu- dinal course, similar to the arteries, empty themselves partly into the internal iliac vein (systemic circulation), and partly into the inferior mesenteric vein (portal circulation). The nerves are derived from the plexuses of the sympathetic nerve around the branches of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries that are distributed to the large intestine. They are distributed in a similar way as those in the small intestine. Su7-facc Form.—The coils of the small intestine occupy the front of the abdomen, below the transverse colon, and are covered more or less completely by the great omentum. For the most part the coils of the jejunum occupy the left side of the abdominal cavity, i.e. the left lumbar and in.o-iiinal regions and the left half of the umbihcal region; whilst the coils of the ileum are situated to the right, in the right lumbar and inguinal regions, in the right half of the umbilical re.iiion, and also the hypogastric. The Ciecum is situated m the right inguinal region. Its position varies slightly, but the mid-point of a line drawn from the anterior superior spint)ns process of the ilium to the symphysis pubis will about mark the middle of its lower border. It is comparatively superficial. From it the ascendins^ colon passes upwards through the right lumbar and hypochondriac regions, and becomes more deeply situated as it ascends to the hepatic tlexure, which is deeply placed, under cover of the \i\ev. The transverse colon crosses the belly transversely on the confines of the umbilical and epigastric regions ; its lower border being on a level slightly above the umbilicus, its upper border just below the greater curvature of the stomach. The splenic * Dublin Hosj). Beports, vol. v. p. 163.