649 VENA CAVA The right superior intercostal, much smaller than the left, closely corresponds with the superior intercostal artery, receiving the blood from the first, or first and second intercostal spaces, and, passing downwards, terminates in the vena azygos major. Occasionally it opens into the right innominate vein. The left sttjjei^ior intercostal is always larger than the right, but varies in size in different subjects, being small when the left upper azygos vein is large, and vice versa. It is usually formed by branches from the two or three upper intercostal spaces, and, passing across the arch of the aorta, terminates in the left innominate vein. The left bronchial vein and the left superior phrenic open into it. The Superior Vena Cava receives the blood which is conveyed to the heart from the whole of the upper half of the body. It is a short trunk, varying from two inches and a half to three inches in length, formed by the junction of the two innominate veins. It commences immediately below the cartilage of the first rib close to the sternum on the right side, and, descending vertically, enters the pericardium about an inch and a half above the heart, and terminates in the upper part of the right auricle opposite the upper border of the third left costal cartilage. In its course it describes a slight curve, the convexity of which is turned to the right side. Relations.—In front, with the pericardium and process of cervical fascia which is continuous with it; this separates it from the thymus gland, and from thq sternum; behind, with the root of the right lung. On its right side, with the phrenic nerve and right pleura ; on its left side, with the commencement of the innominate artery and the ascending part of the aorta. The portion contained within the pericardium is covered by the serous layer of that membrane, in its anterior three-fourths. It receives the vena azygos major just before it enters the pericardium, and several small veins from the pericardium and parts in the mediastinum. The superior vena cava has no valves. The Azygos Veins connect together the superior and inferior venae cavffi, supplying the place of those vessels in the part of the chest which is occupied by the heart. The larger, or right azygos vein (vena azygos major), commences opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra, by a branch from the right lumbar veins (the ascending lumbar); sometimes by a branch from the right renal vein, or from the inferior vena cava. It enters the thorax through the aortic opening in the Diaphragm, and passes along the rigEt side of the vertebral column to the fourth dorsal vertebra, where it arches forward over the root of the right lung, and terminates in the superior vena cava, just before that vessel enters the pericardium. Whilst passing through the aortic opening of the Diaphragm, it lies with the thoracic duct on the right side of the aorta ; and in the thorax, it lies upon the intercostal arteries, on the right side of the aorta and thoracic duct, and is partly covered by pleura. Tributaries.—It receives nine or ten lower intercostal veins of the right side, the vena azygos minor, several oesophageal, mediastinal, and pericardial veins ; near its termination, the right bronchial vein ; and generally the right superior intercostal vein. A few imperfect valves are found in this vein ; but its tributaries are provided with complete valves. The intercostal veins on the left side, below the two or three upper intercostal spaces, usually form two trunks, named the left lower, and the left upper, azygos veins. The left lower, or smaller azygos vein (vena azygos minor), commences in the lumbar region, by a branch from one of the lumbar veins (ascending lumbar), or from the left renal. It passes into the thorax, through the left crus of the Diaphragm, and, ascending on the left side of the spine, as high as the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra, passes across the column, behind the aorta and thoracic duct, to terminate in the right azygos vein. It receives the four or five lower intercostal veins of the left side, and some oesophageal and mediastinal veins. The left U2:)per azygos vein varies according to the size of the left superior