THE ANIMAL CELL 9 division is, as is believed by some observers, merely a sort of imperfect or abnormal karyokinesis. The process of reproduction by indirect division commences in the nucleus, the stroma of which undergoes complex changes, leading to the division of this body previous to the cleavage of the protoplasm of the cell. The changes consist briefly of the following, (i) At the commencement of the process the nuclear network is well developed, but shows only slight indications of activity. (2) The chromatic fibrils forming the nuclear network, after rearranging themselves, become thicker, and probably combined in one long filament, which forms a loose convolution. This is called the glomerulus or skein (fig. 6, b). At the same time a number of protoplasmic granules arrange themselves at two points in the cell protoplasm opposite each other; these points are called the ijoles, and the line midway between them, and bisecting at right angles a line connecting the two, is called the equator. (3) The filament becomes arranged in m.ore or less distinct loops converging towards the two poles, resembling somewhat in appearance a rosette or wreath (fig. 6, c). From the poles to the loops, fine threads, not staining like the other (achromatic), are seen bridging across the space left between the filament and the cell protoplasm. These are known as the nuclear sinndle. (4) The loops now become flattened so as to form a festooned ring or star at the equator of the nucleus. This is known as the single star, aster, monaster. The loops begin to break transversely at the equator (fig. 6, d*), having sometimes previously broken at their polar ends. The nuclear spindle or achromatin is very distinct, as well as a radiating arrangement of protoplasmic granules towards the poles. It is at this stage, or sometimes after, that a longitudinal splitting of the filament occurs, so that they become more numerous and more slender. (5) After breaking across at the equator, the chromatic filaments move towards the poles as if they were guided by the achromatic threads. These threads bridge across between the two receding stars, v/hich are known as diaster or daughter stars. The protoplasm, with its radiating granules, begins to group itself around the two poles (fig. 6, e). (6) The daughter stars have now reached the poles; the broken ends become united, so .that each daughter chromatic filament becomes^ a single festooned filament, forming a rosette or wreath, the daugliter rosettes or loreaths. There is now distinct evidence of cleavage in the protoplasm (fig. 6, f). (7) By further irregular contraction the regular arrangement of the loops becomes lost, and the filament presents a convoluted appearance constituting the daughter glomeruli or skeins (fig. 6, g). The cleavage of the protoplasm is now complete except where the achromatic threads are found. (8) By further convolution and contraction the loops of the filament become fused together, and form again a network. The protoplasm is now again in contact with the nuclear network, which serves to form a wall around the nuclei, and two daughter cells with nuclei are formed (fig. 6, h). The remains of the achromatic threads bridge across the intercellular substance, constituting the prickles of prickle cells. In the reproduction of cells by direct division the process is brought about either by segmentation, or by gemmation. In reproduction by segmentation or fission, the nucleus first splits, by becoming constricted in its centre, and thus assuming an hour-glass shape. This leads to a cleavage or division of the whole protoplasmic mass of the cell; and thus we find that two new cells have been formed, consisting of the same substance as the original one, and each containing a nucleus. These daughter cells are of course at first smaller than the original mother cell; but they grow, and the process may be repeated in them, so that multiplication may rapidly take place. In reproduction by gemmation, a budding- off or separation of a portion of the nucleus and parent-cell takes place, and, becoming separated, forms a new organism. The cell-wall, which is not an essential constituent, and in fact is often absent, consists of a flexible, transparent, structureless or finely striated membrane, which is permeable to fluids. As far as is known, every animal cell is derived from a pre-existing cell. The death of cells is accomplished either by their mechanical