TOPOGRAPHY OF CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS posterior extremity of the hemisphere to the fissure of Sylvius, being bounded above by the calcarine and dentate fissure and separated below from the external occipito-temporal convolution by the collateral fissure. From the anterior extremity a narrow portion is recurved or bent backwards in the form of a hook, which is sometimes called the crochet or uncus. The back part of this convolution—that is, the part below the calcarine fissure—is sometimes known as the lingual lobule or gyrus. The external occipito-temporal convolution is of considerable length, and lies between the collateral fissure and the inferior temporo-sphenoidal sulcus, which latter separates it from the inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolution on the outer surface of the hemisphere. Besides the great primary convolutions above named and described, and which can be recognised in almost any well-developed brain, there are a great number of secondary convolutions which pass from one primary convolution to another, and often render the arrangement of the latter somewhat obscure ; of these, the connections of the occipital lobe, above mentioned, and which are named annectant convolutions, may be taken as examples. Cerebral Localisation and Topography.—Within the last few years physiological and pathological research have gone far to prove that the surface of the brain may be mapped out into series of definite areas, each one of which is intimately connected with some well-defined function. And this is especially true with regard to the convolutions on either side of the fissure of Rolando, which are believed by most physiologists of the present day to be concerned in motion, those grouped around the fissure being associated with move- ments of the extremities of the opposite side of the body, and those arolind the lower end of the fissure being related to movements of the mouth and tongue. This is not the place, nor can space be given, to describe these localities. But the two accompanying woodcuts from Ferrier (figs. 419, 420) have been introduced, and will serve to indicate the position of these areas as far as they have been at present ascertained. The relation of the principal fissures and convolutions of the cerebrum to the outer sm-face of the scalp has been the subject of much recent investigation, and many systems have been devised by which one may localise these parts fi'om an examination of the external surface of the head. These plans can only be regarded as approximately correct for several reasons: in the first place, because the relations of the convolutions and sulci to the surface are found to be very variable in different individuals; secondly, because the surface area of the scalp is greater than the surface area of the brain, so that lines drawn on the one cannot corre- spond exactly to sulci or convolutions on the other ; and thirdly, because the sulci and convolutions in two individuals are never precisely alike. Nevertheless, the principal fissures and convolutions can be mapped out with satficlent accuracy for all practical piu-poses, so that any particular convolution can be generally exposed by removmg with the trephine a certain portion of the skull's area. The various landmarks on the outside of the skull, which can be easily felt, and which serve as indications of the position of the parts beneath, have been already refered to (see page 193), and the relation of the fissures and convolutions to these landmarks is as follows:— Longitudinal Fissure.—This corresponds to a line drawn from the glabella at the root of the nose to the external occipital protuberance. The Fissure of Sylvius.—The position of the fissure of Sylvius and its horizontal limb is marked by a line starting from a point one inch and a quarter horizontally behind the external angular process of the frontal bone to a point three-quarters of an inch below the most prominent point of the parietal eminence. The first three-quarters of an inch will represent the main fissure, the remainder the horizontal limb. The bifurcation of the fissure is, therefore, two inches behind and about a quarter of an inch above the level of the external angular process. The ascending limb of the fissure passes upwards from this point parallel to, and immediately behind, the coronal suture. Fissure of Bolando.—To find the upper end of the fissure of Rolando, a measurement should be taken from the glabella to the external occipital protuberance. The position of the top of the sulcus will be, measuring from in front, 55-6 per cent, of the whole distance from the glabella to the external occipital protuberance. Professor Thane adopts a some- what simpler method. He divides the distance from the glabella to the external occipital protuberance over the top of the head into two equal parts, and having thus defined the middle point of the vertex, he takes half an inch behind it as the top of the sulcus. This is not quite so accurate as the former method, but it is sufficiently so for all practical purposes, and, on account of its simplicity, is very generally adopted. From this point the fissure runs downwards and forwards for 3f inches, its axis making an angle of 67° with the middle line. In order to mark this groove, two strips of metal may be employed : one, the shorter, being fixed to the middle of the other at the angle mentioned. z z