GENERAL ANATOMY 98 backwards on each side, from the front of the body towards the vertebral cohimn (fig. 98, a). These are the first or prnnitive aortic arches. As the heart recedes YiG. 98.—Diagram of the formation of the aortic arches and the large arteries. ir III IV. V. First, second, third, fourth, aud fifth aortic arcbes. a. Common trunk from which the first pair spring- the'place'where the succeeding pairs are formed is indicated by dotted hues. B. Common trunk, with four arches and a trace of the fifth, c. Common trunk, with tlie three last pairs, the first two having been obliterated T> The persistent arteries, those Avhich have disappeareil being indicated by dotted lines, i. Common arterial trunk. 2. Thoracic aorta. 3. Right branch of the common trunk wliich is only temporary. 4 Left branch permanent. 5. AxiUary artery. 6. Vertebral. 7, 8. Subclavian. 9. Common carotid. 10. External; and'11, Internal carotid. 12. Aorta. 13. Pulmonary artery. 14, 15. Right aud left pulmonary arteries. into the thorax, and these arches, which correspond in position to the first pharyn- geal or mandibular arch, become elongated, four pairs of arches are formed behind them around the pharynx (fig. 98). The arches, five in number, remain per- manent in fishes, giving off from their convex borders the branchial arteries to supply the gills. In many animals the five pairs do not exist together, for the YiG. 99. Diagram to show the destination of the arterial arches in man and mammals. (Modified from Kathke. From Qnain's ' Anatomy,' vol. i. pt. i. 1890.) oLTch of ctrteriosTzs The truncus arteriosus and the five arterial arches springing from it are represented in outline only ; the permanent vessels in colours—those belonging to the aortic system red, to the pulmonary system blue. first two have disappeared before the others are formed; but this is not so in man, where all five arches are present and pervious during a certain period of embryonic existence. Only some of the arches in mammalia remain as permanent structures ;