655 OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY Sitrgical Anatomy.—The veins of this plexus are apt to become dilated and varicose, and form piles. This is partly due to the free communication between the portal and systemic circulation vi^hich here exists, so that any obstruction to the flow of blood through either the inferior vena cava or its main tributaries, or through the portal vein, tends to produce passive congestion of this plexus. The condition is also partly due to the fact that the vessels are contained in ver}^ loose, lax connective tissue, so that they get less support from surrounding structures than most other veins, and are less capable of resisting increased blood pressure. And finally, the condition is favoured by gravitation, inasmuch as the portal vein contains no valves. The vesico-prostatic plexus surrounds the neck and base of the bladder and prostate gland. It communicates with the hssmorrhoidal plexus behind, and receives the dorsal vein of the penis, which enters the pelvis beneath the subpubic ligament. This plexus is supported upon the sides of the bladder by a reflection of the pelvic fascia. The veins composing it are very liable to become varicose, and often contain hard, earthy concretions, called ijlileholitlis. Surgical Anatomy.—This plexus is wounded in the lateral operation of lithotomy, and it is through it that septic matter finds its way into the general circulation after this operation. The dorsal vein of the penis is a vessel of large size, which returns the blood from the body of that organ. At first it consists of two branches, which are contained in the groove on the dorsum of the penis, and it receives veins from the gians, the corpus spongiosum, and numerous superficial veins ; these unite near the root of the penis into a single trunk, which passes through the suspensory ligament of the penis, pierces the triangular ligament beneath the pubic arch, and divides into two branches, which enter the prostatic plexus. The vaginal plexus surrounds the mucous membrane, being especially developed at the orifice of the vagina; it communicates with the vesical plexus in front, and with the h^emorrhoidal plexus behind. The uterine plexus is situated along the sides and superior angles of the uterus, between the layers of the broad ligament, receiving large venous canals (the uterine sinuses) from the substance of the uterus. The veins composing this plexus anastomose frequently with each other and with the ovarian veins. They are not tortuous like the arteries. The Common Iliac Veins are formed by the union of the external and internal iliac veins in front of the sacro-iliac articulation ; passing obliquely upwards towards the right side, they terminate upon the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, w^here the veins of the two sides unite at an acute angle to form the inferior vena cava. The right common iliac is shorter than the left, nearly vertical in its direction, and ascends behind and then to the outer side of its corresponding artery. The left common iliac, longer and more oblique in its course, is at first situated on the inner side of the corresponding artery, and then behind the right common iliac. Each common iliac receives the ilio-lumbar, and sometimes the lateral sacral veins. The left receives, in addition, the middle sacral vein. No valves are found in these veins. The middle sacral veins accompany the corresponding artery along the front of the sacrum, and terminate in the left common iliac vein; occasionally in the angle of junction of the two iliac veins. Peculiarities.—The left common iliac vein, instead of joining with the right in its usual position, occasionally ascends on the left side of the aorta as high as the kidney, where, after receiving the left renal vein, it crosses over the aorta, and then joins with the right vein to form the vena cava. In these cases, the two common iliacs are connected by a small communicating branch at the spot where they are usually united.* The Inferior Vena Cava returns to the heart the blood from all the parts below the Diaphragm. It is formed by the junction of the two common iliac veins on the right side of the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. It passes upwards along the front of the spine, on the right side of the * See two cases which have been described by Mr. Walsham in the St. Bartholomew''s Hosjntal Rejports, vols. xvi. and xvii.