THE THORAX 956 To examine the interior of the right ventricle, an incision should be made a little to the right of the anterior interventricular groove from the pulmonary artery to the apex of the heart, and should be carried up from thence a little to the right of the posterior interventricular groove, as far as the auriculo-ventricular opening. The folloAving parts present themselves for examination :— . (Auriculo-ventricular. ^ i Opening of the pulmonary artery. Valves . J Tricuspid. i bemiiunar. And a muscular and tendinous apparatus connected with the tricuspid valve :— Columnse carneae. Chordae tendinese. The auriculo-ventricular orifice is the large oval aperture of communication between the auricle and ventricle. It is situated at the base of the ventricle, near the right border of the heart. The opening is about an inch in diameter,* oval from side to side, surrounded by a fibrous ring, covered by the lining membrane of the heart, and rather larger than the corresponding aperture on the left side, being sufficiently large to admit the ends of four fingers. It is guarded by the tricuspid valve. The opening of the jmlmonary artery is circular in form, and situated at the summit of the conus arteriosus, close to the septum ventriculorum. It is placed on the left side of the auriculo-ventricular opening, upon the anterior aspect of the heart. Its orifice is guarded by the pulmonary semilunar valves. The tricuspid valve consists of three segments of a triangular or trapezoidal shape, formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane of the heart, strengthened by a layer of fibrous tissue, and containing, according to Kiirschner and Senac, muscular fibres. These segments are connected by their bases to the auriculo- ventricular orifice, and by their sides with one another, so as to form a continuous annular membrane, which is attached round the margin of the auriculo-ventricular opening, their free margins and ventricular surfaces affording attachment to a number of delicate tendinous cords, the chordce tendinece. The largest and most movable segment is placed towards the left side of the auriculo-ventricular opening, interposed between that opening and the pulmonary artery. Another segment corresponds to the front of the ventricle; and a third to its posterior Avail. The central part of each segment is thick and strong: the lateral margins are thin and indented. The chordae tendineae are connected with the adjacent margins of the principal segments of the valve, and are further attached to each segment in the folloAving manner : i. Three or four reach the attached margin of each segment, where they are continuous with the auriculo-ventricular tendinous ring. 2. Others, four to six in number, are attached to the central thickened part of each segment. 3. The most numerous and finest are connected with the marginal portion of each segment. The columncB carnece are the rounded muscular columns which project from nearly the whole of the inner surface of the ventricle, excepting near the opening of the pulmonary artery, where the wall becomes smooth. They may be classified, according to their mode of connection with the ventricle, into three sets. The first set merely form prominent ridges on the inner surface of the ventricle, being attached by their entire length on one side, as well as by their extremities. The second set are attached by their two extremities, but are free in the rest of their * In the Pathological Transactions, vol. vi. p. 119, Dr. Peacock has given some carefiil researches upon the weight and dimensions of the heart in health and disease. He states, as the result of his investigations, that, in the healthy adult heart, the right auriculo-ventricular aperture has a mean circumference of 54*4 lines, or 4|£ inches; the left auriculo-ventricular aperture a mean circumference of 44*3 lines, or 2)Vi inches ; the pulmonic orifice of 40 lines, or 2>2^ inches; and the aortic orifice of 35*5 lines, or 3/5 inches ; but the dimensions of the orifices varied greatly in different cases, the auriculo- ventricular aperture having a range of from 45 to 60 lines, and the others in the same proportion.