MUSCLES AND FASCI.E 370 will be made tense, and may be exposed in a similar manner to the preceding. To expose the Retrahens aurem, draw the pinna forwards, when the muscle, being made tense, may be felt beneath the skin, at its insertion into the back part of the conclia, and may be exposed in the same manner as the other muscles. The Attrahens aurem (Awicidaris anterior), the smallest of the three, is thin, fan-shaped, and its fibres pale and indistinct; they arise from the lateral edge of the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis, and converge to be inserted into a projection on the front of the helix. Relations.—Superficially, with the skin ; deeply, with the areolar tissue derived from the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis, beneath which are the temporal artery and vein and the temporal fascia. The AttoUens aurem (Auricularis superior), the largest of the three, is-thin and fan-shaped : its fibres arise from the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis, and converge to be inserted by a thin, flattened tendon into the upper part of the cranial surface of the pinna. Relations.—Superficially, with the integument; deeply, with the areolar tissue derived from the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis, beneath which is the temporal fascia. The Retrahens aurem {Auricularis posterior) consists of two or three fleshy fasciculi, which arise from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone by short aponeurotic fibres. They are inserted into the lower part of the cranial surface of the concha. Relations.—Superficially, with the integument; deeply, with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Nerves.—The Attrahens and Attollens aurem are supplied by the temporal branch of the facial; the Retrahens aurem is supplied by the posterior auricular branch of the same nerve. Actions.—In man, these muscles possess very little action : the Attrahens aurem draws the ear forwards and upAvards ; the Attollens aurem slightly raises it; and the Retrahens aurem draws it backwards. 3. Palpebral Region (hg. 269) Orbicularis palpebrarum. Levator palpebrae. Corrugator supercilii. Tensor tarsi. Dissection (fig. 256).—In order to expose the muscles of the face, continue the longi- tudinal incision, made in the dissection of the Occipito-frontalis, down the median line of the face to the tip of the nose, and from this point onwards to the upper lip; and carry another incision along the margin of the lip to the angle of the mouth, and transversely across the face to the angle of the jaw. Then make an incision in front of the external ear, from the angle of the jaw upwards, to join the transverse incision made in exposing the Occipito-frontalis. These incisions include a square-shaped flap, which should be removed in the direction marked in the figure, with care, as the muscles at some points are intimately adherent to the integument. The Orbicularis palpebrarum is a sphincter muscle, which surrounds the cir- cumference of the orbit and eyelids. It arises from the internal angular process of the frontal bone, from the nasal process of the superior maxillary in front of the lachrymal groove for the nasal duct, and from the anterior surface and borders of a short tendon, the teiido palpebrartirii, placed at the inner angle of the orbit. From this origin, the fibres are directed outwards, forming a broad, thin, and fiat layer, which coders the eyelids, surrounds the circumference of the orbit, and spreads out over the temple, and downwards on the cheek. The palpebral portion (ciliaris) of the Orbicularis is thin and pale ; it arises from the bifurcation of the tendo palpebrarum, and forms a series of concentric curves, which are united on the outer side of the eye- lids at an acute angle by a cellular raphe, some being inserted into the external tarsal ligament and malar bone. The orbicular portion (orbicularis latus) is thicker and of a reddish colour : its fibres are Avell developed, and form complete ellipses. The