OF THE CAEPUS 333 The ligaments connecting the pisiform bone are— Capsular. Two palmar ligaments. The Capsular Ligament is a thin membrane which connects the pisiform bone to the cuneiform. It is lined with a separate synovial membrane. The two Palmar Ligaments are two strong fibrous bands which connect the pisiform to the unciform, the piso-uncinate, and to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone, the piso-metacaiycd ligament (fig. 248). 2. Aeticulations of the Second Row of Caepal Bones These are also arthrodial joints. The articular surfaces are covered with carti- lage, and connected by the following ligaments :— Dorsal. Palmar. Three Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments extend transversely from one bone to another on the dorsal surface, connecting the trapezium with the trapezoid, the trapezoid with the OS magnum, and the os magnum with the unciform. The Palmar Ligaments have a similar arrangement on the palmar surface. The three Interosseous Ligaments, much thicker than those of the first row, are placed one between the os magnum and the unciform, a second between the OS magnum and the trapezoid, and a third between the trapezium and trapezoid. The first of these is much the strongest, and the third is sometimes wanting. Sometimes a slender interosseous band connects the os magnum and the scaphoid. 3. Aeticulations of the Two Rows of Caepal Bones with each othee The joint between the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform, and the second row of the carpus, or the mid-carjjal joint, is made up of three distinct portions ; in the centre the head of the os magnum and the superior surface of the unciform articulate with the deep, cup-shaped cavity formed by the scaphoid and semilunar bones, and constitute a sort of ball-and-socket joint. On the outer side the trapezium and trapezoid articulate with the scaphoid, and on the inner side the unciform articulates with the cuneiform, forming gliding joints. The ligaments are :— Anterior or Palmar. External Lateral. Posterior or Dorsal. Internal Lateral. The Anterior or Palmar Ligaments consist of short fibres, which pass, for the most part, from the palmar surface of the bones of the first row to the front of the OS magnum. The Posterior or Dorsal Ligaments consist of short, irregular bundles of fibres passing between the bones of the first and second row on the dorsal surface of the carpus. The Lateral Ligaments are very short: they are placed, one on the radial, the other on the ulnar side of the carpus ; the former, the stronger and more distinct, connecting the scaphoid and trapezium bones, the latter the cuneiform and unciform ; they are continuous with the lateral ligaments of the wrist-joint. The Synovial Membrane of the Carpus is very extensive; it passes from the under surface of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones to the upper surface of the bones of the second row, sending upwards two prolongations—between the scaphoid and semilunar, and the semilunar and cuneiform—sending downwards three prolongations between the four bones of the second row, which are further continued onwards into the carpo-metacarpal joints of the four inner metacarpal bones, and also for a short distance between the metacarpal bones. There is a separate synovial membrane between the pisiform and cuneiform bones.