601 COMMON ILIAC required on account of aneurism or hemorrhage, imphcating the external or internal ihacs. The artery may be tied by one of two incisions, i. An anterior or ihac incision, by which the vessel is approached more directly from the front; and 2. a posterior abdominal or lumbar incision, by which the vessel is reached from behind. If the surgeon select the ihac region, a curved incision, from live to eight inches in length according to the amount of fat, is made, commencing just outside the middle of Poupart's hgainent and a finger's breadth above it, and carried outwards towards the anterior superior iliac spine, then upwards towards the ribs, and finally curving inwards towards the umbihcus. The abdominal muscles and transversahs fascia are divided, and the peritoneum raised upwards and inwards, until the Psoas is reached. The arterv will be found on the inner side of this muscle, and is to be cleared with a director, especial care being taken on Fig. 372.—Arteries of the pelvis. the right-side a« here the common iliac veins lie behind the artery. The aneurism needle is to be passed from within outwards. But if the aneurismal tumour should extend high up in the abdomen, along the external iliac, it is better to select the posterior or lumbar, by making an incision partly in the abdomen, partly in the loin. The incision is commenced at the anterior extremity of the last rib, proceeding directly downwards to the ilium ; it is then curved forwards along the crest of the ilium, and a little above it to the anterior superior spine of that bone. The abdominal muscles having been cautiously divided in succession, the transversahs fascia must be carefully cut through, and the peritoneum, together with the ureter, separated from the artery, and pushed aside ; the sacro-iliac articulation must then be felt for, and upon it the vessel will be felt pulsating, and may be fully exposed in close connection with its accompanying A'ein. On the right side, both common iliac veins, as well as the inferior vena cava, are in close connection with the artery, and must be carefully avoided. On the left side, the vein usually lies on