SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HEENIA I050 inner boundary of the crural ring (see fig. 630). Its apex corresponds to the spine of the os pubis. Its posterior margin is attached to the pectineal line, and is continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Its anterior margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament. The triangular ligament of the abdomen is a band of tendinous fibres, of a triangular shape, which is attached by its apex to the pectineal line, where it is continuous with Gimbernat's ligament. It passes inwards beneath the spermatic cord, and expands into a somewhat fan-shaped fascia, lying behind the inner pillar of the external abdominal ring, and in front of the conjoined tendon, and interlaces with the ligament of the other side at the linea alba. The Internal oblique muscle has been previously described (page 428). The part which is now exposed is partly muscular and partly tendinous in structure. Those fibres which arise from Poupart's ligament, few in number, and paler in colour than the rest, arch downwards and inwards across the spermatic cord, and, becoming tendinous, are inserted conjointly with those of the Transversalis into the crest of the os pubis and pectineal line, forming what is known as the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis. This tendon is inserted imme- diately behind the external abdominal ring, serving to protect what would other- wise be a weak point in the abdominal wall. Sometimes this tendon is insafficient to resist the pressure from within, and is carried forwards in front of the protrusion through the external ring, forming one of the coverings of direct inguinal hernia ; or the hernia forces its way through the fibres of the conjoined tendon. The Cremaster is a thin muscular layer, composed of a number of fasciculi which arise from the middle of Poupart's ligament at the inner side of the Internal obhque, being connected with that muscle, and also occasionally with the Transversalis. It passes along the outer side of the spermatic cord, descends with it through the external ring upon the front and sides of the cord, and forms a series of loops, which differ in thickness and length in different subjects. Those at the upper part of the cord are exceedingly short, but they become in succession longer and longer, the longest reaching down as low as the testicle, where a few are inserted into the tunica vaginalis. These loops are united together by areolar tissue, and form a thin covering over the cord and testis, ihe^ fascia cremasterica. The fibres ascend along the inner side of the cord, and are inserted by a small pointed tendon into the crest of the os pubis, and front of the sheath of the Rectus muscle. It will be observed that the origin and insertion of the Cremaster is precisely similar to that of the lower fibres of the Internal oblique. This fact affords an easy explanation of the manner in which the testicle and cord are invested by this muscle. At an early period of foetal life the testis is placed at the lower and back part of the abdominal cavity, but during its descent towards the scrotum, which takes place before birth, it passes beneath the arched border of the Internal oblique. In its passage beneath this muscle some fibres are derived from its lower part, which accompany the testicle and cord into the scrotum. It occasionally happens that the loops of the Cremaster surround the cord, some lying behind as well as in front. It is probable that, under these circumstances, the testis, in its descent, passes through, instead of beneath, the fibres of the Internal oblique. In the descent of an oblique inguinal hernia, w^hich takes the same course as the spermatic cord, the Cremaster muscle forms one of its coverings. This muscle becomes largely developed in cases of hydrocele and large old scrotal hernise. No such muscle exists in the female, but an analogous structure is developed in those cases where an oblique inguinal hernia descends beneath the margin of the Internal oblique. The Internal oblique should be detached from Poupart's ligament, separated from the Transversalis to the same extent as in the previous incisions, and reflected inwards on to the sheath of the Eectus (fig. 623). The circumflex iliac vessels, which lie between these two muscles, form a valuable guide to their separation.