678 NEKVOUS SYSTEM cervical enlargement, which is the larger, extends from about the third cervical to the first or second dorsal vertebra : its greatest diameter is in the transverse direction, and it corresponds with the origin of the nerves which supply the upper extremities. The lower, or lumbar, enlargement is situated opposite the last two or three dorsal vertebrje, its greatest diameter being from before backwards. It corresponds with the origin of the nerves which supply the lower extremities. In form, the spinal cord is a flattened cylinder. Fissures.—It presents on its anterior surface, along the middle line, a longi- tudinal fissure, the anterior median fissure ; and, on its posterior surface, another fissure, which also extends along the entire length of the cord, the posterior median fissure. These fissures penetrate through the greater part of the thickness of the cord, and incompletely divide the cord into two symmetrical halves, united in the middle line by a transverse band of nervous sub- stance, the commissure. The Anterior Median Fissure is wider, but of less depth than the posterior, extending into the cord for about one-third of its thickness, and is deepest at the lower part of the cord. It contains a prolongation from the pia mater; and its floor is formed by the anterior tvhite commissure, which is perforated by numerous blood-vessels, passing to the centre of the cord. The Posterior Median Fissure is not an actual fissure, as the space between the lateral halves of the posterior part of the cord is crossed by connective tissue and numerous blood-vessels, so that no actual hiatus exists, and there is consequently no prolonga- tion of the pia mater into it. It extends into the cord to about one half its depth, and its floor is formed by the 'posterior grey commissure. Lateral Fissures.—On each side of the anterior median fissure a linear series of foramina may be observed, indicating the points where the anterior roots of the spinal nerves emerge from the cord. This is called, by some anatomists, the antero-lateral fissure of the cord, although no actual fissure exists in this situation. And on each side of the posterior median fissure, along the line of attachment of the posterior roots of the nerves, a delicate fissure may be seen, leading down to the grey matter which approaches the surface in this situation; this is called the postero-lateral fissure of the spinal cord. On the posterior surface of the spinal cord, between the posterior median fissure and the postero-lateral fissure on each side, is a slight longitudinal furrow, marking off two slender tracts, the posterior median columns. These are most distinct in the cervical region, but are stated by Foville to exist throughout the whole length of the cord. Columns of the Cord.—Each half of the spinal cord is thus divided into four columns : an anterior column, a lateral column, a posterior column, and a posterior median column. The anterior column includes all the portion of the cord between the anterior median fissure and the line from which the anterior roots of the nerves arise. It is continuous with the pyramid of the medulla oblongata. The lateral column, the largest segment of the cord, includes all the portion between the line of origin of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves and the postero- lateral fissure. By some anatomists the anterior and lateral columns are included together under the name of the antero-lateral column, which forms rather more than two-thirds of the entire circumference of the cord. The posterior column is situated between the posterior median and postero- lateral fissures. The posterior median column is that narrow segment of the cord which is seen on each side of the posterior median fissure, usually included with the preceding as the posterior column. Fig. 402.—Spinal cord. Side view. Plan of the fissures and columns.