171 INFERIOR TURBINATED BONES Articulations.—With six bones: the sphenoid, ethmoid, superior maxillary, inferior turbinated, vomer, and opposite palate. Attachment of Muscles.—To four : the Tensor palati, Azygos uvulae. Internal pterygoid, and Superior constrictor of the pharynx. The Infeeiok Turbinated Bones The Inferior Turbinated Bones (turbo, a tchirl) are situated one on each side of the outer wall of the nasal fossa?. Each consists of a layer of thin, spongy bone, curled upon itself like a scroll—hence its name ' turbinated'—and extends hori- zontally along the outer wall of the nasal fossa, immediately below the orifice of the antrum. Each bone presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The internal surface (fig. 163) is convex, perforated by numerous apertures, and traversed by longitudinal grooves and canals for the lodgment of arteries and Fig. 163.—Eight inferior turbinated bone. Fig. 164.—Right inferior turbinated Internal surface. bone. External surface. veins. In the recent state it is covered by the lining membrane of the nose. The external surface is concave (fig. 164), and forms part of the inferior meatus. Its tipper border is thin, irregular, and connected to various bones along the outer wall of the nose. It may be divided into three portions ; of these, the anterior articulates with the inferior turbinated crest of the superior maxillary bone; the posterior with the inferior turbinated crest of the palate-bone ; the middle portion of the superior border presents three well-marked processes, which vary much in their size and form. Of these, the anterior and smallest is situated at the junction of the anterior fourth with the posterior three-fourths of the bone: it is small and pointed, and is called the lachrymal pirocess ; it articulates, by its apex, with the anterior inferior angle of the lachrymal bone, and, by its margins, with the groove on the back of the nasal process of the superior maxillary, and thus assists in forming the canal for the nasal duct. At the junction of the tw^o middle fourths of the bone, but encroaching on its posterior fourth, a broad, thin plate, the ethmoidal process, ascends to join the unciform process of the ethmoid ; from the lower border of this process a thin lamina of bone curves downwards and outw^ards, hooking over the lower edge of the orifice of the antrum, which it narrows below: it is called the maxillary process, and fixes the bone firmly on to the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The inferior border is free, thick, and cellular in structure, more especially in the middle of the bone. Both extremities are more or less narrow and pointed, the posterior being the more tapering. If the bone is held so that its outer con- cave surface is directed backwards (i.e. towards the holder), and its superior border, from which the lachrymal and ethmoidal processes project, upwards, the lachrymal process will be directed to the side to which the bone belongs.* Development.—By a single centre, which makes its appearance about the middle of fcBtal life. Articulations.—With four bones : one of the cranium, the ethmoid, and three of the face, the superior maxillary, lachrymal, and palate. No muscles are attached to this bone. * If the lachrymal process is broken off, as is often the case, the side to which the bone belongs may be known by recollecting that the maxillary process is nearer the back than the fi'ont of the bone.