POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION 463 common to it and the three following muscles; from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint; from a strong aponeurosis which covers its surface ; and from the intermuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. The fibres terminate about the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which is closely connected with that of the preceding muscle, and accompanies it to the wrist, lying in the same groove on the posterior surface of the radius; it passes beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, then beneath the annular ligament, and, diverging some- what from its fellow, is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger, on its radial side. The tendons of the two preceding muscles pass through the same compartment of the annular ligament, and are lubricated by a single synovial membrane, but are separated from each other by a small vertical ridge of bone as they lie in the groove at the back of the radius. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Extensor carpi radialis longior, and with the Extensor muscles of the thumb which cross it. By its deep surface, with the Supinator brevis, tendon of the Pronator radii teres, radius, and wrist- joint. By its ulnar border, with the Extensor communis digitorum. Posterior Brachial Region (fig. 308) Superficial Layer Extensor communis digitorum. Extensor carpi ulnaris. Extensor minimi digiti. Anconeus. The Extensor communis digitorum is situated at the back part of the forearm. It arises from the external condyle of the humerus, by the common tendon ; from the deep fascia, and the intermuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. Just below the middle of the forearm it divides into three tendons, which pass, together with the Extensor indicis, through a separate compartment of the annular ligament, lubricated by a synovial membrane. The tendons then diverge, the innermost one dividing into two; and all, after passing across the back of the hand, are inserted into the second and third phalanges of the fingers in the following manner: each tendon becomes narrow and thickened opposite the meta- carpo-phalangeal articulation, and gives off a thin fasciculus upon each side of the joint, which blends with the lateral ligaments and serves as the posterior ligament; after having passed the joint, it spreads out into a broad aponeurosis, which covers the whole of the dorsal surface of the first phalanx; being reinforced, in this situation, by the tendons of the Interossei and Lumbricales. Opposite the first phalangeal joint this aponeurosis divides into three slips, a middle and two lateral: the former is inserted into the base of the second phalanx; and the two lateral, which are continued onwards along the sides of the second phalanx, unite by their contiguous margins, and are inserted into the dorsal surface of the last phalanx. As the tendons cross the phalangeal joints, they furnish them with posterior ligaments. The tendons of the middle, ring, and little fingers are connected together, as they cross the hand, by small, oblique, tendinous slips, or vincula; those on each side of the ring-finger are strong, and bind the tendon of this finger closely to those of the middle and little finger, so that it cannot, in general, be freely extended without moving the other two. Sometimes there is also a thin slip between the tendons of the index and middle fingers. The tendons of the index and little fingers also receive, before their division, the special extensor tendons belonging to them. Relations.—By its siiperficial surface, with the fascia of the forearm and hand, the posterior annular ligament, and integument. By its deep surface, with the Supinator brevis, the Extensor muscles of the thumb and index finger, the posterior interosseous vessels and nerve, the wrist-joint, carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges. By its radial border, with the Extensor carpi radialis brevior. By its ulnar border, with the Extensor minimi digiti and Extensor carpi ulnaris.