GENEEAL ANATOMY 32 are found to consist of a network of fine clear fibres and granular corpuscles, with a ground-substance between. The fibres are termed osteogenic fibres, and soon become dark and granular from calcification, and as they calcify they are found to enclose the granular corpuscles or ' osteoblasts' (fig. 36). The calcifica- tion not only involves the osteogenic fibres, but also the ground-substance of the tissue in which they are contained. The corpuscles at first lie upon the osteo- genic fibres, so that they can be removed by brushing the specimen with a hair- pencil, in order to render the fibres clear; but they gradually become involved in the ossifying matrix, and form the corpuscles of the future bone, the spaces in which they are enclosed constituting the lacunaB. As the tissue increases in thickness, vessels shoot into it, grooving for them- selves spaces or channels, which become the Haversian canals. Thus, the intra- membranous and intracartilaginous pro- cesses of ossification are similar in their more essential features. The number of ossific centres is different in different bones. In most of the short bones ossification commences by a single point in the centre, and proceeds towards the circumference. In the long bones there is a central point of ossifica- tion for the shaft or diaphysis : and one or more for each extremity, the epiphysis. That for the shaft is the first to appear. The union of the epiphyses with the shaft takes place in the reverse order to that in which their ossification began, and appears to be regulated by the direction of the nutrient artery of the bone. Thus, the nutrient arteries of the bones of the arm and fore-arm are directed towards the elbow, and the epiphyses of the bones forming this joint become united to the shaft before those at the opposite extremity. In the lower limb, on the other hand, the nutrient arteries pass in a direction from the knee : that is, upwards in the femur, downwards in the tibia and fibula ; and in them it is observed that the upper epiphysis of the femur, and the lower epiphysis of the tibia and fibula, become first united to the shaft. Where there is only one epiphysis, the medullary artery is directed towards that end of the bone where there is no additional centre ; as towards the acromial end of the clavicle, towards the distal end of the metacarpal bone of the thumb and great toe, and towards the proximal end of the other metacarpal and metatarsal bones. Besides these epiphyses for the articular ends, there are others for projecting parts or processes, which are formed separately from the bulk of the bone. For an account of these, the reader must be referred to the description of the individual bones in the sequel. A knowledge of the exact periods when the epiphyses become joined to the shaft is often of great importance in medico-legal inquiries. It also aids the surgeon in the diagnosis of many of the injuries to which the joints are liable ; for it not infrequently happens that, on the application of severe force to a joint, the epiphysis becomes separated from the shaft, and such injuries may be mistaken for fracture or dislocation. MUSCULAR. TISSUE The muscles are formed of bundles of reddish fibres, endow^ed with the property of contractility. Two kinds of muscular tissue are found in the animal body, viz. that of voluntary or animal life, and that of involuntary or organic life. The muscles of animal life (striped muscles) are capable of being put in action and Fig. 36.—Osteoblasts from the parietal bone of a human embryo thirteen Vv'eeks old. (After Gegenbauer.) ((. Bony septa with tlu' cells of the lacunae, h. Layers of osteoblasts, c. The latter iu transition to bone- corpuscles.