1042 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION the meshes of a stroma or framework, and invested by a serous covering derived from the peritoneum. Serous Covering.—Though the investing membrane of the ovary is derived from the peritoneum, it differs essentially from that structure, inasmuch as its epithelium consists of a single layer of columnar cells, instead of the flattened endothelial cells, of other parts of the membrane ; this has been termed the germinal epWielium of Waldeyer, and gives to the surface of the ovary a dull grey aspect instead of the shining smoothness of serous membranes generally. Stroma.—The stroma is a peculiar soft tissue, abundantly supplied with blood- vessels, consisting for the most part of spindle-shaped cells, with a small amount of ordinary connective tissue. These cells have been regarded by some anatomists as unstriped muscle cells, which, indeed, they most resemble (His); by others as connective-tissue cells (Waldeyer, Henle, and Kolliker). On the surface of the organ this tissue is much condensed, and forms a layer composed of short connective-tissue fibres, with fusiform cells between them. This was formerly regarded as a distinct fibrous covering, and was termed the tunica alhuginea, but is nothing more than a condensed layer of the stroma of the ovary. Graafian Vesicles.—Upon making a section of an ovary, numerous round transparent vesicles of various sizes are to be seen ; they are the Graafian vesicles, the ovisacs containing the ova. Immediately beneath the superficial covering is a layer of stroma, in which are a large number of minute vesicles, of uniform size, about yJ^7j of an inch in diameter. These are the Graafian vesicles in their earliest condition, and the layer where they are found has been termed the cortical layer. They are especially numerous in the ovary of the young child. After puberty, and during the whole Fig. 618.—Section of the ovary. (After Scliron.) of the child-bearing period, 5 large and mature, or almost mature, Graafian vesicles are also found in the cortical layer in small numbers, and also ' corpora lutea,' the remains of Fig. 619.—Section of the Graafian vesicle. (After Von Baer.) Periioneum Outer coveriug. i'. Attached border. 3. Peripheral stroma. 4. Blood-vessels. 2. Central stroma. 5. Graafian follicles in their earliest stage. 6, 7, 8. More advanced follicles. 9. An almost mature follicle. 9'. Follicle from which the ovum has escaped. 10. Corpus luteum. .'■^ '-■>,: I I Coats of the Stroma of the ovary i Graafian vesicle with blood-vessels Memhrana qramilosa vesicles which have burst and are undergoing atrophy and absorption. Beneath this superficial stratum, other large and more mature Graafian vesicles are found embedded in the ovarian stroma. These increase in size as they recede from the surface towards a highly vascular stroma in the centre of the organ, termed the medullary substance {zona vasculosa, Waldeyer). This stroma forms the tissue of the hilum by which the ovary is attached, and through which the blood-vessels enter; it does not contain any Graafian vesicles. The Graafian vesicles consist of an external fibro-vascular coat, connected with the surrounding stroma of the ovary by a network of blood-vessels ; and an internal coat, named ovicajjsule, which is lined by a layer of nucleated cells, called the membrana granulosa. The fluid contained in the interior of the vesicles is transparent and albuminous, and in it is suspended the ovum. In that part of the mature Graafian vesicle which is nearest the surface of the ovary, the cells of the membrana granulosa are collected into a mass which projects into the cavity