GIMBERNAT'S LIGAMENT 1049 the limb is extended and rotated outwards, the aponeurosis of the External oblique, together with the iliac portion of the fascia lata, will be felt to become tense, and the external ring much contracted; if the limb is, on the contrary, flexed upon the pelvis and rotated inwards, this aponeurosis will become lax, and the external ring sufficiently enlarged to admit the finger with comparative ease ; hence the patient should always be put in the latter position when the taxis is applied for the reduc- tion of an inguinal hernia, in order that the abdominal walls may be relaxed^ as much as possible. The aponeurosis of the External oblique should be removed by dividing it across in the same direction as the external incisions, and reflecting it downwards and outwards; ^reat care is requisite in separating it from the aponeurosis of the muscle beneath. The lower part of the Internal oblique and the Cremaster are then exposed, together with the inguinal canal, which contains the spermatic cord (fig. 622). The mode of insertion of Poupart's and Gimbernat's hgaments into the os pubis should also be examined. Fig. 622.—Inguinal hernia, showing the Internal oblique, Cremaster, and spermatic canal. Poupart's ligament, or the crural arch, is the lower border of the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle, which extends from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the os pubis. From this latter point it is reflected outwards to be attached to the pectineal line for about half an inch, forming Gimbernat's ligament. Its general direction is curved downwards towards the thigh, where it is continuous with the fascia lata. Its outer half is rounded and oblique in direction ; its inner half gradually widens at its attachment to the os pubis, is more horizontal in direction, and lies beneath the spermatic cord. Gimbernat's ligament (fig. 629) is that portion of the External oblique muscle which is reflected downwards and outwards from the spine of the os pubis to be inserted into the pectineal Une. It is about half an inch in length, larger in the male than in the female, almost horizontal in direction in the erect posture, and of a triangular form, with the base directed outwards. Its base or outer margin is concave, thin, and sharp, and lies in contact with the crural sheath, forming the