COMPRESSOE URETHRA loyr in company with the artery of the same name. The crura penis are exposed, lying- superficial to this ligament. They will be seen to be attached by blunt pointed processes to the rami of the os pubis and ischium, in front of the tuberosities, and passing forwards and inwards joining to form the body of the penis. In the middle line is the bulb and corpus spongiosum exposed by the removal of the Accelerator urinse muscle. If the superficial layer of the deep perineal fascia is detached on either side, the deep perineal interspace will be exposed and the following parts will be seen, between it and the deep layer of the fascia : the subpubic ligament in front, close to the symphysis pubis ; the dorsal vein of the penis ; the membranous portion of the urethra and the Compressor urethrse muscle ; Cowper's glands and their ducts ; the pudic vessels and the dorsal nerve of the penis ; the artery and nerve of the bulb, and a plexus of veins. The stiperior^ or deep layer of the deep perineal fascia is derived from the obturator fascia, or is continuous with it along the pubic arch. Behind, it joins with the Fig. 633.—Deep perineal fascia. On the left side the anterior layer has been removed. superficial layer of the deep perineal fascia, and is continuous with the anal fascia. Above it is the recto-vesical fascia, separated from it on each side by the anterior fibres of the Levator ani, but in the median line these two layers of fascia are continuous and form a median septum, in consequence of the recto-vesical fascia dipping down to join the deep layer of the deep perineal fascia. Thus on each side of the middle line, beneath this fascia, is a little interspace in which is contained the anterior fibres of the Levator ani (Levator prostatae). It is bounded, below, by the deep layer of the deep perineal fascia; above, by the recto-vesical fascia, a.nd is separated internally from the space on the other side by the median septum. The deep layer of the deep perineal fascia is pierced by the urethra, and is continued backwards around the posterior part of the membranous portion of the urethra and the outer surface of the prostate gland. The Compressor urethrse has already been described (page 442 ). In addition to this muscle and immediately beneath it, circular muscular fibres surround the mem- branous portion of the urethra from the bulb in front to the prostate behind, and are continuous with the muscular fibres of the bladder. These fibres are involuntary.