ORGANS OF DIGESTION 9i8 surrounded and enclosed by a delicate reticulum which forms the matrix of the villus, and in the meshes of which are found large flattened cells, with an oval nucleus, and, in smaller numbers, lymph-corpuscles. These latter are to be distinguished from the larger cells of the villus by their behaviour with reagents, by their size, and by the shape of their nucleus, w^hich is spherical. Transitional forms, however, of all kinds are met with between the lymph-corpuscle and the proper cells of the villus. The lac teals are in some cases double, and in some animals multiple. Situated in the axis of the villi, they commence by dilated caecal extremities near to, but not quite at, the summit of the villus. The walls are composed of a single layer of endothelial cells, the interstitial substance between the cells being continuous with the reticulum of the matrix. The miiscular fibres are derived from the muscu- laris mucosae, and are arranged in bundles around the lacteal vessel, extending from the base to the summit of the villus, and giving off, laterally, individual muscle-cells, which are enclosed by the reticulum, and by it are attached to the basement membrane. The blood-vessels form a plexus between the lacteal and the basement membrane, and are enclosed in the reticular tissue ; in the interstices of the capillary plexus, which they form, are contained the cells of the villus. These structures are surrounded by the basement membrane, which is made up of a stratum of endothelial cells, and upon which is placed a layer of columnar epithelium. The reticulum of the matrix is con- tinuous through the basement membrane (that is, through the interstitial substance between the individual endothelial cells) with the interstitial cement-substance of the columnar cells on the surface of the villus. Thus we are enabled to trace a direct continuity between the interior of the lacteal and the surface of the villus by means of the reticular tissue, and it is along this path that, according to Dr. Watney, the chyle passes in the process of absorption by the villi. That is to say, it passes through the interstitial substance between the epithelium cells, through the interstitial substance of the basement membrane, the reticulum of the matrix, and the interstitial substance between the endothelial plates of the lacteal. Fig. 536.—Longitudinal section of crypts of Lieberkiihn. Goblet-cells seen among the columnar epithelial cells. (Klein and Noble Smith.) all which structures have been shoAvn to be continuous with one another, and being probably semi-fluid do not offer any obstacle to the passage of the molecular basis of the chyle. The simple follicles, or crypts of Lieberkuhn (figs. 535, 536), are found in con- siderable numbers over every part of the mucous membrane of the small intestine. They consist of minute tubular depressions of the mucous membrane, arranged perpendicularly to the surface, upon which they open by small circular apertures. They may be seen with the aid of a lens, their orifices appearing as minute dots, scattered between the villi. Their walls are thin, consisting of a layer of base- ment membrane (which is, in fact, an endothelial membrane) lined by columnar epithelium, and covered on their exterior by capillary vessels. Fig. 535.—Transverse sec- tion of crypts of Lieber- kiihn. (Klein and Noble Smith.)