788 SPINAL NERVES the radial artery, concealed beneath the Supinator longns. In the middle third of the forearm, it lies beneath the same rniiscle, in close relation with the outer side of the artery. It quits the artery about three inches above the wrist, passes beneath the tendon of the Supinator longus, and, piercing the deep fascia at the outer border of the forearm, divides into two branches. The external branch, the smaller of the two, supplies the integument of the radial side and ball of the thumb, joining with the anterior branch of the musculo- cutaneous nerve. The internal branch communicates, above the wrist, with the posterior cutaneous branch from the musculo-cutaneous, and, on the back of the hand, forms an arch with the dorsal cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. It then divides into three digital nerves, which are distributed as follows : the first supplies the ulnar side of the thumb and the radial side of the index finger; the second, the adjoining sides of the index and middle fingers ; and the third, the adjacent borders of the middle and ring fingers.* The latter nerve communicates with a filament from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. The Posterior Interosseous Nerve winds to the back of the forearm, through the fibres of the Supinator brevis, and passes down, between the superficial and deep layer of muscles, to the middle of the forearm. Considerably diminished in size, it descends on the interosseous membrane, beneath the Extensor longus pollicis, to the back of the carpus, where it presents a gangliform enlargement from which filaments are distributed to the ligaments and articulations of the carpus. It supplies all the muscles of the radial and posterior brachial regions, excepting the Anconeus, Supinator longus, and Extensor carpi radialis longior. Surgical Anatomy.—The brachial plexus may be ruptured by traction on the limb, leading to complete paralysis. In these cases the lesion would appear to be rather a tearing away of the nerves from the spinal cord, than a solution of continuity of the nerve-fibres themselves. In the axilla, any of the nerves forming the brachial plexus may be injured in a wound of this part, the median being the one which is most frequently damaged from its exposed position ; and the musculo-spiral, on account of its sheltered and deep position, being the least often wounded. The brachial plexus in the axilla is often damaged from the pressure of a crutch, producing the condition known as ' crutch paralysis.' In these cases the mnsculo-spiral appears to be the nerve which is most frequently implicated to the greatest extent; the ulnar nerve being the one that appears to suffer next in frequency. The circimijiex nerve is of particular surgical interest. On account of its course round the joint, it is liable to be torn in fractures of the surgical neck of the humerus and in dislocations of the shoulder-joint, leading to paralysis of the deltoid, and, according to Erb, inflammation of the shoulder-joint is liable to be followed by a neuritis of this nerve from extension of the inflammation to it. Mr. Hilton takes the circumflex nerve as an illustration of a law which he lays down, that ' the same trunks of nerves whose branches supply the groups of muscles moving a joint, furnish also a distribution of nerves to the skin over the insertions of the same muscles, and the interior of the joint receives its nerves from the same source.' In this way he explains the fact that an inflamed joint becomes rigid, because the same nerves which supply the interior of the joint supply the muscles also which move that jomt. The median nerve is liable to injury in wounds of the forearm. When paralysed, there is loss of flexion of the second phalanges of all the fingers, and of the terminal phalanges of the index and middle fingers. Flexion of the terminal phalanges of the ring and middle fingers is effected b}^ that portion of the Flexor profundus digitorum which is supplied by the ulnar nerve. There is power to flex the proximal phalanges through the Interossei. The thumb cannot be flexed or opposed, and is maintained in a position of extension and adduction. All power of pronation is lost. The wrist can be flexed, if the hand is first adducted, by the action of the Flexor carpi ulnaris. There is loss or impairment of sensation on the palmar surface of the thumb, index, middle, and outer half of ring fingers, and on the dorsal surface of the same fingers over the last two phalanges; except in the thumb, where the loss of sensation would be limited to the back of the last phalanx. In order to expose the median nerve, for the purpose of stretching, an incision should be made along the ulnar side of the tendon of the Palmaris longus, which serves as a guide to the nerve. * According to Hutchinson, the digital nerve to the thumb reaches only as high as the root of the nail: the one to the forefinger as high as the middle of the second phalanx : and the one to the middle and ring fingers not higher than the first phalangeal joint.— London Hosjj. Gaz. vol, iii. p. 319.