562 ARTERIES collateral circulation is mainly established hy three sets of vessels, thus described in a dissection :— ' I. x\ posterior set, consisting of the suprascapular and posterior scapular branches of the subclavian, anastomosing with the median branch from the subscapular from the axillary. ' 2. An internal set produced by the connection of the internal mammary on the one hand, with the superior and long thoracic arteries, and the branches from the subscapular on the other, ' 3. A middle or axillary set, which consisted of a number of small vessels derived from branches of the subclavian, above ; and, passing through the axilla, terminated either in the main trunk, or some of the branches of the axillary below. This last set presented most conspicuously the peculiar character of newly-formed or, rather, dilated arteries, being excessively tortuous, and forming a complete plexus. ' The chief agent in the restoration of the axillary artery below the tumour was the subscapular artery, which communicated most freely with the internal mammary, supra- scajjular, and posterior scapular branches of the subclavian, from all of which it received so great an influx of blood as to dilate it to three times its natural size.' * When a ligature is applied to the first part of the subclavian artery, the collateral circulation is carried on by : i, the anastomosis between the superior and inferior thyroid; 2, the anastomosis of the two vertebrals ; 3, the anastomosis of the internal mammary with the dee«p epigastric and the aortic intercostals ; 4, the superior intercostal anasto- mosing with the aortic intercostals; 5, the profunda cervicis anastomosing with the princeps cervicis ; 6, the scapular branches of the thyroid axis anastomosing with the iDranches of the axillary ; and 7, the thoracic branches of the axillary anastomosing with the aortic intercostals. Beanches of the Subclavian Artery These are four in number. On the left side all four branches, the vertebral, the internal mammary, the thyroid axis, and the superior intercostal, generally arise from the first portion of the vessel; but on the right side, the superior intercostal usually arises from the second portion of the vessel. On both sides of the body, the first three branches arise close together at the inner margin of the Scalenus anticus; in the majority of cases, a free interval of half an inch to an inch exist- ing between the commencement of the Fig. 360.—Plan of the branches of the artery and the origin of the nearest right subclavian artery. branch ; in a smaller number of cases, an interval of more than an inch exists, never exceeding an inch and three- quarters. In a very few instances, the interval had been found to be less than half an inch. The Vertebral Artery (fig. 352) is gene- \rally the first and largest branch of the subclavian ; it arises from the upper and back part of the first portion of the vessel, and, passing upwards, enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra,f and ascends through the foramina in the transverse processes of all the vertebriie above this. Above the upper border of the axis, it inclines out- wards and upwards to the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, through which it passes ; it then winds backwards behind its articular process, runs in a deep groove on the upper surface of the posterior arch of this bone, and, passing beneath the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament, pierces the dura mater, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum. It then passes forwards and upwards to the front of the medulla oblongata, and unites with the vessel of the opposite side at the lower border of the pons Varolii to form the basilar artery. * Guy's Hosjntal Beports, vol. i. 1836. Case of axillary aneurism, in which Mr. Aston Key had tied the subclavian artery on the outer edge of the Scalenus muscle, twelve years previously. f The vertebral artery sometimes enters the foramen in the transverse process of the fifth vertebra. Dr. Sm3^th, who tied this artery in the living subject, found it, in one of his dissections, passing into the foramen in the seventh vertebra.