129 COCCYX Fig. 125.—Development of the sacrum. Additional centres for tJie first three pieces* At birth segments. The junction between the laminae and the bodies takes place first in the lower vertebrae as early as the second year, but is not effected in the upper- most until the fifth or sixth year. About the sixteenth year the epiphyses for the upper and under surfaces of the bodies are formed; and between the eighteenth and twentieth years, those for each lateral surface of the sacrum make their appear- ance. The bodies of the sacral vertebrae are, during early life, separated from each other by intervertebral discs. But about the eighteenth year the two lowest seg- ments become joined together by ossifica- tion extending through the disc. This process gradually extends upwards until all the segments become united ; and the bone is completely formed from the twenty- fifth to the thirtieth year of lif-e. Articulations.—With four bones: the last lumbar vertebra, coccyx, and the two ossa innominata. Attachment of Muscles.— To eight pairs : in front, the Pyriformis and Coccy- geus, and a portion of the Iliacus to the H yrs base of the bone; behind, the Gluteus maximus, Latissimus dorsi, Multifidus spinas, and Erector spinas, and sometimes the Extensor coccygis. Fig. 126. The Coccyx Fig. 127. Two ejjiphysial lamince for each lateral surface * The Coccyx (kokkv^, cuckoo), so called from having been compared to a cuckoo's beak (fig. 128), is usually formed of four small segments of bone, the most rudi- mentary parts of the vertebral column. In each of the first three segments may be traced a rudimentary body, articular and transverse processes; the last piece year (sometimes the third) is a mere nodule of bone, mthout distinct processes. All the segments are destitute of pedicles, laminae, and spinous processes ; and, consequently, of intervertebral foramina and spinal canal. The first segment is the largest; it resembles the lowermost sacral vertebra, and often exists as a separate piece ; the last three, diminishing in size from above downwards, are usually blended together so as to form a single bone. The gradual diminution in the size of the pieces gives this bone a triangular form, the base of the triangle joining the end of the sacrum. It presents for examination an anterior and posterior surface, two borders, a base, and an apex. The anterior surface is slightly concave, and marked with three transverse grooves, indicating the points of junction of the different pieces. It has attached to it the anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament and Levator ani muscle, and supports the lower end of the rectum. The posterior surface is convex, marked by transverse grooves similar to those on the anterior surface ; and presents on each side a lineal row of tubercles, the rudimentary articular processes of the coccygeal vertebra. Of these, the superior pair are large, and are called the cornua of the coccyx : they project upwards, and articulate mth the K