404 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE Scaleni muscles, when they take then- fixed point from above, elevate the first and second ribs, and are, therefore, inspiratory muscles. When they take their fixed point from below, they bend the spinal column to one or the other side. If the muscles of both sides act, lateral movement is prevented, but the spine is slightly flexed. The Rectus lateralis, acting on one side, bends the head laterally. Surface Form.—The muscles in the neck, with the exception of the Platysma myoides, are invested by the deep cervical fascia, which softens down their form, and is of con- siderable importance in connection with deep cervical abscesses and tumours, modifying the direction of their growth and causing them to extend laterally instead of towards the surface. The Platysma myoides does not influence surface form except it is in action, when it produces wrinkling of the skin of the neck, which is thrown into oblique ridges parallel with the fasciculi of the muscle. Sometimes this contraction takes place suddenly and repeatedly, as a sort of spasmodic twitching, the result of a nervous habit. The Sterno-cleido-mastoid is the most important muscle of the neck as regards its surface form. If the muscle is put into action by drawing the chin downwards and to the opposite shoulder, its surface form will be plainly outlined. The sternal origin wiU stand out as a sharply defined ridge, while the clavicular origin will present a flatter and not so prominent an outline. The fleshy middle portion will appear as an oblique roll or eleva- tion, with a thick rounded anterior border gradually becoming less marked above. On the opposite side, i.e. on the side to which the head is turned, the outline is lost, its place being occupied by an oblique groove in the integument. When the muscle is at rest its anterior border is still visible, forming an oblique rounded ridge, terminating below in the sharp outline of the sternal head. The posterior border of the muscle does not show above the clavicular head. The anterior border is defined by drawing a line from the tip of the mastoid process to the sterno-clavicular joint. It is an important surface-marking in the operation of ligature of the common carotid artery and some other operations. Between the sternal and clavicular heads is a slight depression, most marked when the muscle is in action. This is bounded below by the prominent sternal extremity of the clavicle. Between the sternal origins of the two muscles is a V-shaped space, the suprasternal notch, more pronounced below, and becoming toned down above, where the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, lying upon the trachea, become more prominent. Above the liyoid bone, in the middle line, the anterior belly of the Digastric to a certain extent influences surface form. It corresponds to a line drawn from the symphysis of the lower jaw to the side of the body of the hyoid bone, and renders this part of the hyo-mental region convex. In the posterior triangle of the neck, the posterior belly of the Omo- hyoid, when in action, forms a conspicuous object, especially in thin necks, presenting a cord-like form running across this region, almost parallel with, and a little above, the clavicle. MUSCLES AND FASCI/E OF THE TRUNK The muscles of the Trunk may be arranged in four groups : the muscles of the Back, of the Thorax, of the Abdomen, and of the Perinseum. Muscles of the Back The muscles of the back are very numerous, and may be subdivided into five layers. First Layer Trapezius. Latissimus dorsi. Second Layer Levator anguli scapula. Rhomboideus minor. Rhomboideus major. Third Layer Serratus posticus superior. Serratus posticus inferior. Splenius capitis. Splenius colli. Fourth Layer Sacral and Lumbar Begions Erector spinas. Dorsal Begion Ilio-costalis. Musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem. Longissimus dorsi. Spinalis dorsi. Cervical Begion Cervicalis ascendens. Transversalis colli.