THE SKELETON 124 Between the second and third years they unite either directly or through the medium of a separate centre, developed in the cartilage in the middle line. The anterior arch, at birth, is altogether cartilaginous, and in this a separate nucleus appears about the end of the first year after birth, and extending laterally joins the neural processes in front of the pedicles. Sometimes there are two nuclei deve- loped in the cartilage, one on either side of the median line, which join to form a single mass. And occasionally there is no separate centre, but the anterior arch is formed by the gradual extension forwards and ultimate junction of the two neural processes. The Axis (fig. 120) is developed by six centres. The body and arch of this bone are formed in the same manner as the corresponding parts in the other vertebrae : one centre (or two, Avhich speedily coalesce) for the lower part of the body, and one for each lamina. The odontoid process consists originally of an extension upwards of the cartilaginous mass, in which the lower part of the body is formed. At about the sixth month of foetal life, tw^o osseous nuclei make their appearance in the base of this process: they are placed laterally, and join before birth to form a conical bilobed mass deeply cleft above ; the interval between the cleft and the summit of the process is formed by a wedge-shaped piece of cartilage, the base of the pro- cess being separated from the body by a cartilaginous interval, which gradually becomes ossified at its circumference, but remains cartilaginous in its centre until advanced age.* Finally, as Humphry has demonstrated, the apex of the odontoid process has a separate nucleus, which appears in the second year and joins about the twelfth year. In addition to these there is a secondary centre for a thin epiphysial plate on the under surface of the body of the bone. The Seventh Cervical.—The anterior or costal part of the transverse process of the seventh cervical is developed from a separate osseous centre at about the sixth month of foetal life, and joins the body and posterior division of the trans- verse process between the fifth and sixth years. Sometimes this process continues as a separate piece, and, becoming lengthened outwards, constitutes what is known as a cervical rib. The Lumbar Vertebrae (fig. 121) have two additional centres (besides those peculiar to the vertebrae generally) for the mammillary tubercles, which project from the back part of the superior articular processes. The transverse process of the first lumbar is sometimes developed as a separate piece, which may remain permanently unconnected with the remaining portion of the bone, thus forming a lumbar rib—a peculiarity which is rarely met with. Progress of Ossification in the Spine generally.—Ossification of the lamina? of the vertebrae commences at the upper part of the spine, and proceeds gradually downwards. Ossification of the bodies, on the other hand, commences a little below the centre of the spinal column (about the ninth or tenth dorsal vertebra), and extends both upwards and downwards. Although, however, the ossific nuclei make their first appearance in the lower dorsal vertebrae, the lumbar and first sacral are those in which these nuclei are largest at birth. Attachment of Muscles.—To the Atlas are attached nine pairs: the Longus colli, Eectus capitis anticus minor. Rectus lateralis, Obliquus capitis superior and inferior, Splenius colli. Levator anguli scapulae. First Inter-transverse, and Rectus capitis posticus minor. To the Axis are attached eleven pairs: the Longus colli, Levator anguli scapulae, Splenius colli. Scalenus medius, Transversalis colli, Intertransversales, Obliquus capitis inferior, Rectus capitis posticus major, Semi-spinalis colli, Multifidus spinae, Interspinales. To the remaining vertebrae, generally, are attached thirty-five pairs and a single muscle : anteriorly, the Rectus capitis anticus major, Longus colli, Scalenus anticus, medius, and posticus. Psoas magnus and parvus, Quadratus lumbo- rum, Diaphragm, Obliquus abdominis internus, and Transversalis abdominis,— * See Cmminghani, Jonrn. Anat. vol. xx. p. 238.