GENERAL ANATOMY 4 called protoijlasm, containing one or more nuclei. These nuclei become more perceptible on the addition of acetic acid. The protoplasm contains bright granules, generally of a fatty nature. The Avhite corpuscles are very similar to, if not identical with, the corpuscles of lymph and chyle, and they also bear a strong resemblance to the cells found in pus. From the fact that cells exactly like the colourless corpuscles are being constantly furnished to the blood by the lymphatic vessels, the chyle-ducts (and even the liver in the foetus), and also from their varying proportions in different parts of the circulation and in different pathological conditions, the colourless corpuscles are often regarded—with at any rate some probability—as an earlier stage of the coloured blood-discs, but the evidence in favour of this cannot be regarded as conclusive. There can be no doubt that during embryonic life the red corpuscles are developed from mesoblastic cells in the vascular area of the blastoderm. They are at first nucleated and resemble white corpuscles, except in their colour and, like them, are possessed of amoeboid movements. They are succeeded by smaller, non-nucleated corpuscles, having all the characters of adult coloured corpuscles, probably formed by a conversion of the former into the latter. So that at birth the nucleated red corpuscles have disappeared. In after life, an important source of the red corpuscles is the red marrow of bones, in which certain cells found in the marrow are converted into coloured blood-corpuscles by the loss of their nuclei, and by their protoplasm becoming tinged with yellow. It is probable, also, that the spleen may be a place for the formation of red corpuscles. This theory^ which was formerly universally believed, and was then discarded for the hypothesis that the spleen was concerned in the destruction of the red corpuscles, has lately been revived by Bizzozero. The question must still be regarded as suh judice. The proportion of white corpuscles appears to vary considerably in different parts of the circulation, being much larger in the blood of the splenic vein and hepatic vein than in other parts of the body, Avhile in the splenic artery they are very scanty. In addition to these corpuscles, a third variety is found in mammalian blood, and has been specially studied and described by Hayem, Bizzozero, and Osier. They are pale circular or oval discs, about one-quarter or one-third the size of the red blood- corpuscles, and apparently contain no nucleus. They have been named blood-jjlates: or blood-plaques, and are su|)posed by Bizzozero to originate the fibrin-ferment^ and to be especially concerned in the coagulation of the blood. The liquor sanguinis or plasma is the fluid part of the blood, and is composed of a permanently fluid portion, the serum, and of fibrin-factors, which unite spon- taneously when out of the body, and by their union form a solid substance, fibrin. These two fibrin-factors are nsumedi fibrinogen and paraglobulin or serum globulin. Paraglobulin is probably contained partly in solution in the plasma, and partly in the colourless corpuscles, and can be obtained by diluting the liquor sanguinis with ten times its volume of ice-cold water, and then transmitting through it a stream of carbon-dioxide. Fibrinogen may be obtained in the same way as paraglo- bulin, but the liquor sanguinis must be still further diluted and the current of carbon-dioxide must pass for a much longer time. When these two fibrin-factors are withdrawn from the body, their union to form fibrin is probably brought about by the agency of a third body, called a fibrin-ferment. Fibrin may be obtained by whipping the blood, after it has been withdrawn from the body, with a bundle of twigs, to which the fibrin, as it coagulates, adheres. Fibrin may also be obtained by filtering the freshly drawn blood of an animal whose corpuscles are large, care being taken to retard coagulation as long as possible. Under these circumstances the corpuscles are retained on the filter, and the liquor sanguinis, passing through, coagulates and separates into fibrin, free from corpuscles, and serum. Fibrin, thus obtained, is a white or bufi'-coloured substance, presenting a stringy appearance, and under the microscope exhibiting fibrillation. When exposed to the air for some time, ii becomes hard, dry, brown, and brittle. It is a proteid compound, insoluble in hot or cold water, alcohol or ether. Under the