GENERAL ANATOMY 28 the animal matter is of unhealthy quality. In the vertebrae of a rickety subject, Dr. Bostock found in loo parts 7975 animal and 20*25 earthy matter. Development of Bone.—In the foetal skeleton some bones, such as the long bones of the limbs, are cartilaginous ; others, as the cranial bones, are membranous. Hence two kinds of ossification are described : the intracartilaginous and the intramemhranous ; and to these a third is sometimes added, the subperiosteal; this, however, is the same as the second, only taking place under different cir- cumstances. Intracartilaginous Ossification.—Just before ossification begins the bone is entirely cartilaginous, and in a long bone, which may be taken as an example, the process commences in the centre and proceeds towards the extremities, which for some time remain cartilaginous. Subsequently a similar process commences in one or more places in those extremities and gradually extends through it. The extremity does not, however, Fig. 31 .—Longitudinal section through the ossifying become joined to the shaft of portion of a long bone in the human embryo. the bone until growth has ceased, but remains separated by a layer of cartilaginous tissue termed epiphysial cartilage. The first step in the ossi- fication of the cartilage is that the cartilage-cells, at the point where ossification is com- mencing and which is termed a centre of ossification, enlarge and arrange themselves in rows (fig. 31). The matrix in which they are embedded increases in quantity, so that the cells become further sepa- rated from each other. A deposit of calcareous material now takes place in this matrix, between the rows of cells, so that they become separated from each other by longi- tudinal columns of calcified matrix, presenting a granular and opaque appearance. Here and there the matrix between two cells of the same row also becomes calcified, and thus we have transverse bars of calcified substance stretch- ing across from one calcareous column to another. Thus we have longitudinal groups of the cartilage-cells enclosed in oblong cavities, the walls of which are formed of calcified matrix. These cavities are called the prijuary areolae (Sharpey). At the same time that this process is going on in the centre of the cartilage of which the foetal bone consists, certain changes are taking place on its surface. This is covered by a very vascular membrane, the periosteitm, on the inner surface of which, that is to say, on the surface in contact with the cartilage, are a number of cells called osteoblasts. By the agency of these cells a thin layer of bony tissue is being formed betw^een the periosteum and the cartilage, by the intramem- branous mode of ossification presently to be described. We have then, in this Kegion of calcified matrix.