LYMPHATICS 666 the side of the pharynx, oesophagus, and trachea, and extending from the base of the skull to the thorax, where they communicate with the lymphatic glands in that cavity. They are subdivided into two sets : an upper, ten to twenty in number, situated about the bifurcation of the common carotid and along the upper part of the internal jugular vein ; and a lower, ten to fifteen in number, clustered around the lower part of the internal jugular vein, and extending outwards into the supra- clavicular fossa, where they are continuous with the axillary glands. Internally, this set is continuous with the mediastinal glands. The superficial and deep cervical lymphatic vessels are a continuation of those already described on the cranium and face. After traversing the glands in those regions, they pass through the chain of glands which lie along the sheath of the carotid vessels, being joined by the lymphatics from the pharynx, oesophagus, larynx, trachea, and thyroid gland. At the lower part of the neck, after receiving- some lymphatics from the thorax, they unite into a single trunk, which terminates, on the left side, in the thoracic duct ; on the right side, in the right lymphatic duct. Surgical Anatomy.— The cervical glands are very frequently the seat of tuberculous trouble. This condition is most usually set up by some lesion in those parts from which they receive their lymph. This excites some inflammation, which subsequently^ takes on a tuberculous character. It is very desirable therefore for the surgeon, in dealing with these cases, to possess a knowledge of the relation of the respective groups of glands to the periphery. The following table is extracted from Mr. Treves's work on ' Scrofula and its Gland Diseases.' Seal]}.—Posterior part = suboccipital and mastoid glands. Frontal and parietal portions = parotid glands. Lymphatic vessels from the scalp also enter the superficial cervical set of glands. Shin of face and necA-= submaxillary, parotid, and superficial cervical glands. External ear = superficial cervical glands. Lotver lip = submaxillary and suprahyoid glands. Buccal cavity = submaxillary and upper set of deep cervical glands. Gums 0/Zo^yer J<X2t; = submaxillary glands. Tongue.—Anterior portion = suprahyoid and submaxillary glands. Posterior portion = upper set of deep cervical glands. To7isils and palate = wp-per set of deep cervical glands. Pharynx.—Upper part = parotid and retro-pharyngeal glands. Lower part = upper set of deep cervical glands. Larynx, orbit, a7id roof of mouth = irpper set of deep cervical glands. Nasal fossa; = retro-pharyngeal glands, upper set of deep cervical glands. Seme lymphatic vessels from posterior part of the fossee enter the parotid glands. Lymphatics of the Upper Exteemity The Lymphatic Glands of the Upper Extremity (fig. 397) are divided into two sets, superficial and The superficial lymphatic glands are few and of small size. There are occa- sionally two or three in front of the elbow, and one or two above the internal condyle of the humerus, near the basilic vein. The deep lymphatic glands are few in number and are subdivided into those in the forearm, the arm, and the axilla. In the forearm, a few small ones are occasionally found in the course of the radial and ulnar vessels. In the arm, there is a chain of small glands along the inner side of the brachial artery. One, sometimes two, fairly constant glands are situated a little above and in front of the inner condyle of the humerus. In the axilla they are of large size, and usually ten or twelve in number. A chain of these glands surrounds the axillary vessels, embedded in a quantity of loose areolar tissue ; they receive the lymphatic vessels from the arm ; others are dispersed in the areolar tissue of the axilla : the remainder are arranged in two series, a small chain running along the lower border of the Pectoralis major, receiving the lymphatics from the front of the chest and mamma; and others are placed along the lower margin of the posterior wall of the axilla, which receive the lymphatics from the integument of the back. Two or three subclavian lymphatic glands are placed immediately beneath the