ABDOMINAL AORTA 591 Surface Marhing.—In order to map out the abdominal aorta on the surface of the abdomen, a hne must be drawn from the middle line of the body, on a level with the distal extremity of the seventh costal cartilage, downwards and slightly to the left, so that it just skirts the umbilicus, to a zone drawn round the body opposite the highest point of the crest of the ilium. This point is generally half an inch below and to the left of the umbilicus, but as the position of this structure varies with the obesity of the individual, it is not a reliable landmark as to the situation of the bifurcation of the aorta. Surgical Anatomy.—-Aneurisms of the abdominal aorta near the coeliac axis communi- cate in nearly equal proportion with the anterior and posterior parts of the artery. When an aneurismal sac is connected with the back part of the abdominal aorta, it usually produces absorption of the bodies of the vertebrae, and forms a pulsating tumour, that presents itself in the left hypochondriac or epigastric regions, and is accompanied by symptoms of disturbance in the alimentary canal. Pain is invariably present, and is usually of two kinds—a fixed and constant pain in the back, caused by the tumour pressing on or displacing the branches of the solar plexus and splanchnic nerves; and a sharp lancinating pain, radiating along those branches of the lumbar nerves which are pressed on by the tumour; hence the pain in the loins, the testes, the hj^pogastrium, and in the lower limb (usually of the left side). This form of aneurism usually bursts into the peritoneal cavity, or behind the peritoneum, in the left hypochondriac region; or it may form a large aneurismal sac, extending down as low as Poupart's ligament; hemorrhage in these cases being generally Yevy extensive, but slowly produced, and not rapidly fatal. When an aneurismal sac is connected with the front of the aorta near the coeliac axis, it forms a pulsating tumour in the left hypochondriac or epigastric regions, usually attended with symptoms of disturbance of the alimentary canal, as sickness, dyspepsia, or constipation, and accompanied by pain, which is constant, but nearly always fixed in the loins, epigastrium, or some part of the abdomen ; the radiating pain being rare, as the lumbar nerves are seldom implicated. This form of aneurism may burst into the peritoneal cavity, or behind the peritoneum, between the layers of the mesentery, or, more rarely, into the duodenum ; it rarely extends backwards so as to affect the spine. The abdominal aorta has been tied several times, and although none of the patients permanently recovered, still, as one of them lived as long as ten days, the possibility of the re-establishment of the circulation may be considered to be proved. In the lower animals this artery has been often successfully tied. The vessel may be reached in several ways. In the original operation, performed by Sir A. Cooper, an incision was made in the linea alba, the peritoneum opened in ft-ont, the finger carried down amongst the intestines, towards the spine, the peritoneum again opened behind, by scratching through the mesentery, and the vessel thus reached. Or either of the operations, described below, for securing the common iliac artery, may, by extending the dissection a sufficient distance upwards, be made use of to expose the aorta. The chief difficulty in the dead subject consists in isolating the artery, in consequence of its great depth ; but in the living subject, the embarrassment resulting from the proximit}^ of the aneurismal tumour, and the great probability of disease in the vessel itself, add to the dangers and difficulties of this formidable operation so greatly, that it is ver^^ doubtful whether it ought ever to be performed. The collateral circulation would be carried on by the anastomosis between the internal mammary and the deep epigastric ; by the free communication between the superior and inferior mesenteries, if the ligature were placed above the latter vessel; or by the anasto- mosis between the inferior mesenteric and the internal pudic, when (as is more common) the point of ligature is below the origin of the inferior mesenteric; and possibly by the anastomoses of the lumbar arteries with the branches of the internal iliac. The circulation through the abdominal aorta may be commanded, in thin persons, by firm pressure with the fingers. A tourniquet has been invented for this purpose, w.hich is sometimes used in amputation at the hip-joint and some other operations. Branches of the Abdominal Aorta Phrenic. f Gastric. Coeliac axis. < Hepatic. L Splenic. Superior Mesenteric. Suprarenal. The branches may be divided into two sets : 2. Those distributed to the walls of the abdomen. Renal. Spermatic in male. Ovarian in female. Inferior Mesenteric. Lumbar. Sacra Media. I. Those su]3plying the viscera.