271 FIBULA indistinct for about an inch below the head), and terminates below at the apex of a rough triangular surface immediately above the articular facet of the external malleolus. It serves for the attachment of the interosseous membrane, and separates the extensor muscles in front from the flexor muscles behind. The postero-external border is prominent; it commences above at the base of the styloid process, and terminates below in the posterior border of the outer malleolus. It is directed outwards above, backw^ards in the middle of its course, backwards and a little inwards below, and gives attachment to an aponeurosis which separates the Peronei muscles on the outer surface of the shaft from the flexor muscles on its posterior surface. The postero-internal border, sometimes called the oblique line, commences above at the inner side of the head, and terminates by becoming continuous with the antero-internal border or interosseous ridge at the lower fourth of the bone. It is well marked and prominent at the upper and middle parts of the bone. It gives attachment to an aponeurosis which separates the Tibialis posticus from the Soleus above and the Flexor longus hallucis below. The anterior surface is the interval between the antero-external and antero- internal borders. It is extremely narrow and flat in the upper third of its extent; broader and grooved longitudinally in its lower third ; it serves for the attachment of three muscles, the Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, and Extensor proprius hallucis. The external surface is the space between the antero-external and postero- external borders. It is much broader than the preceding, and often deeply grooved, is directed outwards in the upper two-thirds of its course, backwards in the lower third, where it is continuous with the posterior border of the external malleolus. This surface is completely occupied by the Peroneus longus and brevis muscles. The internal surface is the interval included between the antero-internal and the postero-internal borders. It is directed inwards, and is grooved for the attach- ment of the Tibialis posticus muscle. * The posterior surface is the space included between the postero-external and the postero-internal borders ; it is continuous below with the rough triangular surface above the articular facet of the outer malleolus; it is directed backwards above, backwards and inwards at its middle, directly inwards below. Its upper third is rough, for the attachment of the Soleus muscle ; its lower part presents a triangular rough surface, connected to the tibia by a strong interosseous ligament, and between these two points the entire surface is covered by the fibres of origin of the Flexor longus hallucis muscle. At about the middle of this surface is the nutrient foramen, which is directed downwards. The Lower Extremity, or external malleolus, is of a pyramidal form, somewhat flattened from without inwards, and is longer, and descends lower, than the internal malleolus. Its external surface is convex, subcutaneous, and continuous with the triangular (also subcutaneous) surface on the outer side of the shaft. The internal surface presents in front a smooth triangular facet, broader above than below, and convex from above downwards, which articulates with a corresponding surface on the outer side of the astragalus. Behind and beneath the articular surface is a rough depression, which gives attachment to the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. The anterior border is thick and rough, and marked below by a depression for the attachment of the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. The posterior border is broad and marked by a shallow groove, for the passage of the tendons of the Peroneus longus and brevis muscles. The summit is rounded, and gives attachment to the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. In order to distinguish the side to which the bone belongs, hold it with the lower extremity downwards, and the broad groove for the Peronei tendons back- wards, i.e. towards the holder: the triangular subcutaneous surface will then be directed to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With two bones : the tibia and astragalus.