1019 THE PENIS called the dorsum. The body is covered by integument, and contains in its interior a large portion of the urethra. The integument covering the penis is remarkable for its thinness, its dark colour, its looseness of connection with the deeper parts of the organ, and its containing no adipose tissue. At the root of the penis, the integument is continuous with that upon the pubes and scrotum ; and at the neck of the gians it leaves the surface, and becomes folded upon itself to form i\iQiwepuce. The internal layer of the prepuce is attached behind to the cervix, and approaches in character to a mucous membrane; from the cervix it is reflected over the glans penis, and at the meatus urinarius is continuous with the mucous lining of the urethra. The mucous membrane covering the gians penis contains no sebaceous glands; but projecting from its free surface are a number of small, highly sensitive papillae. At the back part of the meatus urinarius a fold of mucous membrane passes backwards to the bottom of a depressed raphe, where it is continuous with the prepuce ; this fold is termed the frceimm pr^Bputii. Structure of the Penis.—The penis is composed of a mass of erectile tissue, enclosed in three cylindrical fibrous compartments. Of these, two, the corpora cavernosa, are placed side by side along the upper part of the organ ; the third, or corpus spongiosum, encloses the urethra, and is placed below. The Corpora Cavernosa form the chief part of the body of the penis. They consist of two fibrous cylindrical tubes, placed side by side, and intimately connected along the median line for their anterior three-fourths, whilst at their back part they separate from each other to form the crura, which are two strong tapering fibrous processes firmly connected to the rami of the os pubis and ischium. Each crus commences by a blunt pointed process in front of the tuberosity of the ischium ; and, before its junction with its fellow to form the body of the penis, it presents a slight enlargement, named by Kobelt, the hulh of the corpns cavernosum. Just beyond this point they become constricted, and retain an equal diameter to their anterior extremity, where they form a single rounded end, which is received into a fossa in the base of the glans penis. A median groove on the upper surface lodges the dorsal vein of the penis, and the groove on the under surface receives the corpus spongiosum. The root of the penis is connected to the symphysis pubis by the suspensory ligame*nt. Structure.—The corpora cavernosa are surrounded by a strong fibrous envelope, consisting of two sets of fibres: the one, longitudinal in direction, being common to the two corpora cavernosa, and investing them in a common covering ; the other, internal, being circular in direction, and being proper to each corpus cavernosum. The internal circular fibres by their junction at one part form an incomplete partition or septum between the two bodies. The sephmi between the two corpora cavernosa forms an imperfect partition; it is thick and complete behind, but in front it is incomplete, and consists of a number of vertical bands, which are arranged hke the teeth of a comb, whence the name which it has received, septum pectiniforme. These bands extend between the dorsal and the urethral surface of the corpora cavernosa. This fibrous investment is extremely dense, of considerable thickness, and consists of bundles of shining white fibres, with an admixture of well-developed elastic fibres, so that it is possessed of great elasticity. From the internal surface of the fibrous envelope, as well as from the sides of the septum, are given off a number of bands or cords, which cross the interior of the corpora cavernosa in all directions, subdividing them into a number of separate compartments, and giving the entire structure a spongy appearance. These bands and cords are called traheculce, and consist of white fibrous tissue, elastic fibres, and plain muscular fibres. In them are contained numerous arteries and nerves. The component fibres of which the trabeculaa are composed are larger and stronger round the circumference than at the centre of the corpora cavernosa ; they are also thicker behind than m front. The interspaces, on the contrary, are larger at the centre than at the circumference, their long diameter being directed