939 STRUCTUEE OF THE BILIARY D.UCTS of the sac, consisting of dense fibrous tissue, which interlaces in all directions, and is mixed with plain muscular fibres, which are disposed chiefly in a longitudinal direction, a few running transversely. The internal or mucous coat is loosely connected with the fibrous layer. It is generally tinged with a yellowish-brown colour, and is everywhere elevated into minute rugae, by the union of which numerous meshes are formed ; the depressed intervening spaces having a polygonal outline. The meshes are smaller at the fundus and neck, being most developed about the centre of the sac. Opposite the neck of the gall-bladder the mucous membrane projects inwards in the form of oblique ridges or folds, forming a sort of screw-like valve. The mucous membrane is covered with columnar epithelium, and secretes an abundance of thick viscid mucus ; it is continuous through the hepatic duct with the mucous membrane lining the ducts of the liver, and through the ductus com- munis choledochus with the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. The Biliary Ducts are, the hepatic, the cystic, and the ductus communis choledochus. The hepatic duct.—Two main trunks of nearly equal size issue from the liver at the transverse fissure, one from the right, the other from the left lobe; • these unite to form the hepatic duct, which then passes downwards and to the right for about an inch and a half, between the layers of the lesser omentum, where it joins at an acute angle with the cystic duct, and so forms the ductus communis choledochus. The hepatic duct, as it descends from the transverse fissure of the liver, between the two layers of the lesser omentum, lies in company with the hepatic artery and portal vein. The cystic duct, the smallest of the three biliary ducts, is about an inch and a half in length. It passes obliquely downwards and to the left from the neck of the gall-bladder, and joins the hepatic duct to form the common duct. It lies in the gastro-hepatic omentum in front of the vena portae, the hepatic artery lying to its left side. The mucous membrane lining its interior is thrown into a series of crescentic folds, from five to twelve in number, similar to those found in the neck of the gall-bladder. They project into the duct in regular succession, and are directed obliquely round the tube, presenting much the appearance of a continuous spiral valve. When the duct has been distended, the spaces between the folds are dilated, so as to give to its exterior a sacculated appearance. The ductus communis choledochus, the largest of the three, is the common excretory duct of the liver and gall-bladder. It is about three inches in length, of the diameter of a goose-quill, and formed by the junction of the cystic and hepatic duct. It descends along the right border of the lesser omentum behind the first portion of the duodenum, in front of the vena porta, and to the right of the hepatic artery; it then passes between the pancreas and descending portion of the duodenum, and, running for a short distance along the right side of the pancreatic duct, near its termination, passes, with it, obliquely between the mucous and muscular coats. The two ducts open by a common orifice upon the summit of a papilla, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, a little below its middle. Structure.—The coats of the biliary ducts are, an external or fibrous, and an internal or mucous. The fibrous coat is composed of strong fibro-areolar tissue, with a certain amount of muscular tissue, arranged, for the most part, in a circular manner around the duct. The mucous coat is continuous with the lining membrane of the hepatic ducts and gall-bladder, and also with that of the duodenum ; and, like the mucous membrane of these structures, its epithehum is of the columnar variety. It is provided wdth numerous mucous glands, which are lobulated and open by minute orifices, scattered irregularly in the larger ducts. In the smaller ducts, which lie in the portal canals in the substance of the liver, are also a number of orifices, disposed in two longitudinal rows, which were formerly regarded as the openings of mucous glands, but which are merely the