THE SKELETON 148 termination of the carotid canal, the wall of which in this situation is deficient in front : 6. above this canal a shallow depression for the reception of the Gasserian ganglion. The posterior surface forms the front part of the posterior fossa of the skull, and is continuous with the inner surface of the mastoid portion of the bone. It presents three points for examination : i. about its centre, a large orifice, the meatus auditorius internus, whose size varies considerably ; its margins are smooth and rounded; and it leads into a short canal, about four lines in length, which runs directly outwards, and is closed by a vertical plate, the lamina cribrosa, which is divided by a horizontal crest, the crista falciformis, into two unequal portions ; the lower presenting three foramina, or sets of foramina; one, just below the posterior part of the crest, consisting of a number of small openings for the nerves to the saccule ; a second, below and posterior to this, for the nerve to the posterior semicircular canal; and a third, in front and below the first, consisting of a number of small openings which terminate in the canalis centralis cochle^^ and transmit the nerve to the cochlea ; the upper portion, that above the crista, presents behind a series of small openings for the passage of filaments to the vestibule and superior and external semicircular canals, and, in front, one large opening, the commencement of the aqu^eductus Fallopii, for the passage of the facial nerve : 2. behind the meatus auditorius, a small slit, almost hidden by a thin plate of bone, leading to a canal, the aqucBcluctus vestibidi, which transmits a small artery and vein, and lodges a process of the dura mater: 3. in the interval between these two openings, but above them, an angular depression which lodges a process of the dura mater, and transmits a small vein into the cancellous tissue of the bone. The inferior or basilar surface (fig. 141) is rough and irregular, and forms part of the base of the skull. Passing from the apex to the base, this surface presents eleven points for examination : i. a rough surface, quadrilateral in form, which Fig. 141.—Petrous portion. Inferior surface.