GENERAL ANATOMY 54 fibres. The middle coat is composed of smooth muscular and fine elastic fibres, disposed in a transverse direction. The external, or fibro-areolar, coat con- sists of filaments of connective tissue, intermixed with smooth muscular fibres, longitudinally or obliquely dis- posed. It forms a protective covering to the other coats, and serves to con- nect the vessel with the neighbouring structures. The above description applies only to the larger lymphatics ; in the smaller vessels there is no muscular or elastic coat, and their structure consists only of a connective- tissue coat, lined by endothelium. The thoracic duct (fig. 6i) is a somewhat more complex structure than the other Fig. 61.-—Transverse section through the coats of the thoracic duct of man. Magnified 30 times. '^^^^^^^^ I. Endothelium from the under surface of the centrum tendineum of the rabbit, a. Stomata. 2. Endo- a. Endothelium, striated lamellae, and inner elastic thelium of the mediastinum of the dog. a. Stomata. coat. b. Longitudinal connective tissue of the 3. Section through the pleura of the same animal, middle coat. c. Transverse muscles of the same. b. Free orifices of short lateral passages of the h-mph- d. Tunica adventitia, with e, the longitudinal mus- canals. (Copied from Ludwig, Schweigger-Seydel, cular fibres. and Dybkowsky.) lymphatics ; it presents a distinct subepithelial layer of branched corpuscles, similar to that found in the arteries, and in the middle coat is a layer of connective tissue with its fibres arranged longitudinally. The lymphatics are supplied by nutrient vessels, which are distributed to their outer and middle coats ; but no nerves have at present been traced into them. The lymphatics are very generally X3rovided with valves, which assist materially in effecting the circulation of the fluid they contain. These valves are formed of a thin layer of fibrous tissue, lined on both surfaces by endothelium. Their form is semilunar ; they are attached by their convex edge to the sides of the vessel, the concave edge being free and directed along the course of the contained current. Usually two such valves, of equal size, are found opposite one another; but occa- sionally exceptions occur, especially at or near the anastomoses of lymphatic vessels. Thus, one valve may be of very rudimentary size and the other increased in proportion. The valves in the lymphatic vessels are placed at much shorter intervals than in the veins. They are most numerous near the lymphatic glands, and they are found more frequently in the lymphatics of the neck and upper extremity than in the lower. The wall of the lymphatics immediately above the point of attachment of each segment of a valve is expanded into a pouch or sinus, which gives to these vessels, when distended, the knotted or beaded appearance which they present. Valves are wanting in the vessels composing the plexiform network in which the lymphatics usually originate on the surface of the body. Origin of Lymphatics.—The finest visible lymphatic vessels (lymphatic capil- laries) form a ]3lexiform network in the tissues and organs, and they consist of a single layer of endothelial plates, with more or less sinuous margins. These vessels commence in an intercommunicating system of clefts or spaces in the connective tissue of the diflerent organs, which have no complete endothelial lining. They