393 LINGUAL REGION CHONDRO-GUOSSUS Fig. 279.— Muscles of the tongue from below. From a preparation in the Mii- semn of the Eoyal College of Surgeons of England. 4. aponeurosis. Passing downwards and forwards between the internal and external carotid arteries, and becoming nearly horizontal in its direction, it divides upon the side of the tongue into two portions : one longitudinal, which enters the side of the tongue near its dorsal surface, blending with the fibres of the Lingualis in front of the Hyo-glossus ; the other oblique, which overlaps the Hyo-glossus muscle and decussates with its fibres. Relations.—By its external surface, from above downwards, with the parotid gland, the Internal pterygoid muscle, the lingual nerve, and the mucous membrane of the mouth. By its internal surface, with the tonsil, the Superior constrictor, and the Hyo-glossus muscle. The Palato-glossus, or Constrictor isthmi faucium, although it is one of the muscles of the tongue, serving to draw its base upwards during the act of de- glutition, is more nearly associated with the soft palate, both in its situation and function; it will, consequently, be de- scribed with that group of muscles. Nerves.—The Palato-glossus is loro- bably innervated by the spinal accessory nerve, through the pharyngeal plexus ; the Inferior lingualis, according to some authors, by the chorda tympani; the re- maining muscles of this group by the hypoglossal. Muscular Substance of Tongue.—The muscular fibres of the tongue run in various directions. These fibres are divided into two sets—Extrinsic and In- trinsic. The extrinsic muscles of the tongue are those which have their origin external and only their terminal fibres contained in the substance of the organ. They are : the Stylo-glossus, the Hyo- glossus, the Palato-glossus, the Genio- hyo-glossus, and part of the Superior constrictor of the pharynx (Pharyngeo- glossus). The intrinsic are those which are contained entirely within the tongue, and form the greater part of its muscular structure. The tongue consists of symmetrical halves separated from each other in the middle line by a fibrous septum. Each half is composed of muscular fibres arranged in various directions, containing much interposed fat, and supplied by vessels and nerves. To demonstrate the various fibres of the tongue, the organ should be subjected to prolonged boiling, in order to soften the connective tissue ; the dissection may then be commenced from the dorsum (fig, 280). Immediately beneath the mucous membrane is a submucous, fibrous layer, into which the muscular fibres which terminate on the surface of the tongue are inserted. Upon removing this, with the mucous membrane, the first stratum of muscular fibres is exposed. This belongs to the group of intrinsic muscles, and has been named the Su]jerior lingualis. It consists of a thin layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres, which arise from the submucous fibrous layer, close to the Epiglottis, and from the fibrous septum, and jd^ss forwards and outwards to the edges of the tongue. Between its fibres pass some vertical fibres derived from the Genio-hyo-glossus