OS INNOMINATUM part of the circumference of the obturator foramen, and gives attachment to the obturator membrane. The cotyloid cavity, or acetabulum, is a deep, cup-shaped, hemispherical depression, directed downwards, outwards, and forwards ; formed internally by the OS pubis, above by the ilium, behind and below by the ischium ; a little less than two-fifths being formed by the ilium, a little more than two-fifths by the ischium, and the remaining fifth by the pubic bone. It is bounded by a prominent, uneven rim, which is thick and strong above, and serves for the attachment of a fibro- cartilaginous structure which contracts its orifice, and deepens the surface for articulation. It presents, on its inner side, a deep notch, the cotyloid notch, which is continuous with a circular depression, the fossa acetahuli, at the bottom of the cavity : this depression is perforated by numerous apertures, lodges a mass of fat, and its margins, as well as those of the notch, serve for the attachment of the ligamentum teres. The notch is converted, in the natural state, into a foramen by a dpnse ligamentous band which passes across it. Through this foramen the nutrient vessels and nerves enter the joint. The obturator or thyroid foramen is a large aperture, situated between the ischium and os pubis. In the male it is large, of an oval form, its longest diameter being obliquely from above downwards ; in the female it is smaller, and more triangular. It is bounded by a thin, uneven margin, to which a strong membrane is attached ; and presents, at its upper and outer part, a deep groove, which runs from the pelvis obliquely forwards, inwards, and downwards. This groove is con- verted into a foramen by the obturator membrane, and transmits the obturator vessels and nerve. Structure.—This bone consists of much cancellous tissue, especially where it is thick, enclosed between two layers of dense, compact tissue. In the thinner parts of the bone, as at the bottom of the acetabulum and centre of the iliac fossa, it is usually semi-transparent, and composed entirely of compact tissue. Development (fig. 209).—By eight centres: three primary—one for the ilium, one for the ischium, and one for the os pubis ; and five secondary—one for the crest of the ilium, one for the anterior inferior spinous process (said to occur more frequently in the male than the female), one for the tuberosity of the ischium, one for the symphysis pubis (more frequent in the female than the male), and one for the Y-shaped piece at the bottom of the acetabulum. These various centres appear in the following order: First, in the ilium, at the lower part of the bone, imme- diately above the sciatic notch, at about the eighth or ninth week ; secondly, in the body of the ischium, at about the third month of foetal life; thirdly, in the body of the OS pubis, between the fourth and fifth months. At birth, the three primary centres are quite separate, the crest, the bottom of the acetabulum, and the rami of the ischium and pubes being still cartilaginous. At about the seventh or eighth year, the rami of the os pubis and ischium are almost completely ossified. About the thirteenth or fourteenth year, the three divisions of the bone have extended their growth into the bottom of the acetabulum, being separated from each other by a Y-shaped portion of cartilage, which now presents traces of ossification, often by two or more centres. The ilium and ischium then become joined, and lastly the OS pubis, through the intervention of this Y-shaped portion. At about the age of puberty, ossification takes place in each of the remaining portions, and they become joined to the rest of the bone about the twenty-fifth year. Articulations.—With its fellow of the opposite side, the sacrum and femur. Attachment of Muscles.—To the ilium, sixteen. To the outer lip of the crest, the Tensor vaginaB femoris, Obliquus externus abdominis, and Latissimus dorsi; to the internal lip, the Iliacus, Transversalis, Quadratus lumborum, and Erector spinas; to the interspace between the lips, the Obliquus internus. To the outer surface of the ilium, the Gluteus maximus. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus, reflected tendon of the Eectus ; to the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch a portion of the Pyriformis ; to the internal surface, the Iliacus ; to that portion of the internal surface below the linea ilio-pectinea, the Obturator internus ; and the