MEDULLA OBLONGATA 69T The posterior surface of the medulla oblongata forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. This portion is of a triangular form, bounded on each side by the diverging funiculi graciles and restiform bodies, and is that part of the ventricle which, from its resemblance to the point of a pen, is called calamus scrimp- torius. The divergence of the funiculi graciles and restiform bodies opens to view the grey matter of the medulla, which is continuous below with the grey matter of the cord. In the middle line is seen a longitudinal furrow, which ends below near the point of the calamus, in a somewhat cleft-like space, the ventricle of Arantius, which opens by a minute hole into the central canal of the cord. The arciform or arcuate fibres, which have been mentioned as forming part of the restiform body, are found in the upper half of the medulla, both crossing its surface and traversing its substance. They are divided for the purpose of descrip- tion into two sets—superficial and deep. The superficial arciform fibres have already been alluded to as crossing the pyramid and olivary body on each side. They emerge from the anterior median fissure, in which they can be traced to enter the raphe and cross it, after which they become no longer traceable. After emerging from the anterior median fissure they cross the pyramid and olivary body, and enter the restiform body. As they cross the olivary body they are reinforced by some of the deep arciform fibres which come to the surface on the inner side of, or through, this structure. The deep arc form fibres are described with the Microscopic Anatomy of the Medulla. Structure.—The medulla oblongata, like the spinal cord, consists of both grey and white matter, and exhibits in section both these structures arranged in certain definite masses. The fibres of the several columns of the cord enter the medulla, and in it undergo a rearrangement, some of them passing through it to the pons Varolii, the cerebrum, and the cerebellum, while others end in its grey substance. Some fibres take origin in the medulla, and are continued onwards to the cerebrum and cerebellum. The structure of the medulla will be best understood by tracing its several parts upwards from the spinal cord. The pyramid is composed of fibres derived from the direct pyramidal tract of the anterior columm of the cord of its own side, and from the crossed pyramidal tract of the lateral column of the opposite half of the cord. Those fibres which are derived from the direct pyramidal tract, and which in the cord lie close to the median fissure, are in the medulla placed to the outer side of the pyramid, being- pushed aside, as it were, by the interpolation of the fibres derived from the crossed pyramidal tract, which are much more numerous. The crossed pyramidal fibres ascend from the lateral column of the spinal cord, and, passing through the anterior grey cornua and across the median fissure, form the inner part of the pyramid. The fibres of the pyramid may be traced upwards through the pons to the crus cerebri of its own side. All the fibres of the anterior column of the cord are not continued into the pyramid of the medulla ; some of them pass backwards, and enter the forinatio reticularis, which is described with the Microscopic Anatomy of the Medulla. The olivary body when cut across obliquely is seen to be composed, externally of white fibres, internally of a grey layer, the corpus dentatuvi, which is arranged in the form of a hollow capsule, open at its upper and inner part and presenting a zigzag or dentated outline. White fibres enter the interior of this capsule by the aperture at its upper and inner part, constituting the olivary loeduncle. The lateral tract of the medulla is the continuation upwards of the lateral column of the cord. The fibres from it divide into three sets : one set, the most numerous, pass deeply behind the olivary body, and ascend through the formatio reticularis to ths pons ; a second set pass across the anterior median fissure to join the pyramid, forming the crossed pyramidal set; the third set, few in number, form a small band, which passes backwards to the restiform body to enter the cerebellum, forming the lateral cerebellar tract. The funiculus of Rolando, which is a longitudinal prominence on the outer Y Y 2