783 LESSER INTERNAL CUTANEOUS and supplies the integument over the lower two-thirds of the posterior surface of the Deltoid, as well as that covering the long head of the Triceps. The circumflex nerve, before its division, gives off' an articular filament, Avhich enters the shoulder-joint below the Subscapularis. The Musculo-cutaneous Nerve (fig. 461) {external cutaneous or perforans Cas- seriiY supplies some of the muscles of the arm, and the integument of the fore- arm. It arises from the outer cord of the brachial plexus, opposite the lower border of the Pectoralis minor, receiving filaments from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves. It perforates the Coraco-brachialis muscle, passes obliquely between the Biceps and Brachialis anticus, to the outer side of the arm, and, a little above the elbow, winds round the outer border of the tendon of the Biceps, and, perforating the deep fascia, becomes cutaneous. This nerve, in its course through the arm, supplies the Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, and part of the Brachialis anticus muscles. It sends a small branch to the bone, which enters the nutrient foramen with the accompanying artery and a filament, from the branch supplying the Brachialis anticus, to the elbow-joint. The cutaneous portion of the nerve passes behind the median cephalic vein, and divides, opposite the elbow-joint, into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch descends along the radial border of the forearm to the wrist, and supplies the integument over the outer half of the anterior surface. At the wrist-joint it is placed in front of the radial artery, and some filaments, piercing the deep fascia, accompany that vessel to the back of the wrist, supplying the carpus. The nerve then passes downwards to the ball of the thumb, where it terminates in cutaneous filaments. It communicates with a branch from the radial nerve, and the palmar cutaneous branch of the median. The loosterior branch passes downwards, along the back part of the radial side of the forearm, to the wrist. It supplies the integument of the lower third of the forearm, communicating with the radial nerve and the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral. The Internal Cutaneous Nerve (fig. 461) is one of the smallest branches of the brachial plexus. It arises from the inner cord in common with the ulnar and internal head of the median, and, at its commencement, is placed on the inner side of the brachial artery. It derives its fibres from the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves. It passes down the inner side of the arm, pierces the deep fascia with the basilic vein, about the middle of the limb, and, becoming cutaneous, divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. This nerve gives off, near the axilla, a cutaneous filament, which pierces the fascia and supplies the integument covering the Biceps muscle, nearly as far as the elbow. This filament lies a little external to the common trunk, from which it arises. The anterior branch, the larger of the two, passes usually in front of, but occasionally behind, the median basilic vein. It then descends on the anterior surface of the ulnar side of the forearm, distributing filaments to the integument as far as the wrist, and communicating with a cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. The posterior branch passes obliquely downwards on the inner side of the basilic vein, passes in front of, or over, the internal condyle of the humerus to the back of the forearm, and descends on the posterior surface of its ulnar side as far as the wrist, distributing filaments to the integument. It communicates, above the elbow, with the lesser internal cutaneous, and above the wrist with the dorsal cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve (Swan). The Lesser Internal Cutaneous Nerve (nerve of Wrisberg) (fig. 461) is distri- buted to the integument on the inner side of the arm. It is the smallest of the branches of the brachial plexus, and arising from the inner cord, with the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves, receives its fibres from the first dorsal nerve. It passes through the axillary space, at first lying behind, and then on the inner side * See foot-note, p. 740.