571 AXILLAEY Eelattons of the First Portion of the Axillary Artery In front. Pectoralis major..- ■ Costo-coracoid membrane. External anterior thoracic nerve. Acromio-thoracic and Cephalic veins. Outer side. Brachial plexus. Inner side. Axillary vein. Behind. First intercostal space, and Intercostal muscle. Second and third serrations of Serratus magnus. Posterior thoracic nerve. The second portion of the axillary artery lies behind the Pectoralis minor. It is covered, in front, by the Pectoralis major and minor muscles; behind, it is separated from the Subscapularis by a cellular interval; on the inner side is the axillary vein. The brachial plexus of nerves surrounds the artery, and separates it from direct contact with the vein and adjacent muscles. Relations of the Second Portion of the Axillary Artery In front. Pectoralis major and minor. Outer side. / f Axillary Outer cord of plexus. Artery, \ Second Portion, Behind. Subscapularis. Posterior cord of plexus. The third portion of the axillary artery lies below the Pectoralis minor. It is in relation, in front, with the lower part of the Pectoralis major above, being covered only by the integument and fascia below, where it is crossed by the inner head of the median nerve ; behind, with the lower part of the Subscapularis, and the tendons of the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major; on its oiiter side, with the Coraco-brachialis; on its hmer, or thoracic side, with the axillary vein. The nerves of the brachial plexus bear the following relation to the artery in this part of its course : on the outer side is the median nerve, and the musculo- cutaneous for a short distance; on the inner side, the ulnar, the internal, and lesser internal cutaneous nerves; and behind, the musculo-spiral and circumflex, the latter extending only to the ' ower border of the Subscapularis muscle. Peculiarities.—The axillary artery, in about one case out of every ten, gives off a large branch, which forms either one of the arteries of the forearm, or a large muscular trunk. In the first set of cases, this artery is most frequently the radial (i in 33), sometimes the ulnar (i in 72), and, very rarely, the interosseous (i in 506). In the second set of cases, the trunk has been found to give origin to the subscapular, circumflex, and profunda arteries of the arm. Sometimes, only one of the circumflex, or one of the profunda arteries, arose from the trunk. In these cases the brachial plexus surrounded the trunk of the branches, and not the main vessel. Inner side. Axillary vein. Inner cord of j)lexus.