262 THE SKELETON the upper surface of the neck, and the great trochanter, converge to the inner circumference of the shaft (fig. 215) ; these are placed in the direction of greatest pressure, and serve to support the vertical weight of the body. The second set are planes of lamellae intersecting the former nearly at right angles, and are situ- ated in the line of the greatest are arranged in a curved form, in order to strengthen the bone when exposed to pressure in all directions. In the midst of the cancellous tissue of the neck is a vertical plane of compact bone, the femoral spur {calcar femorale) which com- mences at the point where the neck joins the shaft midway between the lesser trochanter and the internal border of the shaft of the bone, and extends in the direction of the digital fossa (fig. 216). This materially strengthens this portion of the bone. Another point in connection with the structure of the neck of the femur requires mention, especially on account of its influence on the production of fracture in this situation. It will be noticed that a considerable portion of the great trochanter lies behind the level of the posterior surface of the neck ; and if a section be made through the trochanter at this level, it will be seen that the posterior wall of the neck is prolonged into the trochanter. This prolongation is termed by Bigelow the ' true neck,' * and forms a thin, dense plate of bone, which passes beneath the posterior intertrochanteric ridge towards the outer surface of the bone. In the lower end, the cancelli spring on all sides from the inner surface of the cylinder, and descend in a perpendicular direction to the articular surface, the cancelli being strongest and having a more accurately perpendicular course above the condyles. In addition to this, however, horizontal planes of cancellous tissue are to be seen, so that the spongy tissue in this situation presents an appearance of being mapped out into a series of rectangular areas. Articulations.—With three bones : the os innominatum, tibia, and patella. tension—that is to say, along the lines in which the muscles and ligaments exert their traction. In the head of the bone these planes Fig. 216.—Calcar femorale. * Bigelotu on the Hix), p. 121.