990 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION commonly the left, and ascends as high as the hyoid bone. It is occasionally quite detached, or divided into two parts, or altogether wanting. A few muscular bands are occasionally found attached, above, to the body of the hyoid bone, and below to the isthmus of the gland, or its pyramidal process. These form a muscle, which was named by Sommerring the Levator glandulcB thy roi deed. Structure.—The thyroid body is invested by a thin capsule of connective tissue, which projects into its substance and imperfectly divides it into masses of irregular form and size. When the organ is cut into, it is of a brownish-red colour, and is seen to be made up of a number of closed vesicles, containing a yellow glairy fluid, and separated from each other by intermediate connective" tissue. According to Dr. Baber, who has recently published some important observa- tions on the minute structure of the thyroid,* the vesicles of the thyroid of the adult animal are generally closed cavities ; but in some young animals (e.g. young dogs) the vesicles are more or less tubular and branched. This appearance he supposes to be due to the mode of growth of the gland, and merely indicating that Fig. 582.—Minute structure of thyroid. From a transverse section of the thyroid of a dog. (Semi-diagrammatic.) (Baber.) an increase in the number of vesicles is taking place. Each vesicle is lined by a single layer of epithelium, the cells of which, though differing somewhat in shape in different animals, have always a tendency to assume a columnar form. Between the epithelial cells exists a delicate reticulum. The vesicles are of various sizes and shapes, and contain as a normal product a viscid, homogeneous, semi-fluid, slightly yellowish material, which frequently contains blood; the red corpuscles of which are found in it in various stages of disintegration and decolorisation, the yellow tinge being probably due to the haemoglobin, which is thus set free from the coloured corpuscles. Baber has also described in the thyroid gland of the dog large round cells (' parenchymatous cells '), each provided with a single oval-shaped nucleus, which migrate into the interior of the gland-vesicles. The capillary blood-vessels form a dense plexus in the connective tissue around the vesicles, between the epithelium of the vesicles and the endothelium of the lymph-spaces, which latter surround a greater or smaller part of the circumference * 'Researches on the Minute Structure of the Thyroid Gland.' Phil. Trans, part iii. 1881.