759 NINTH. GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL as in health ; whereas, when the paralysis is m|the course of the nerve, the reaction is usually lost. When the nerve is paralysed in*tne*petrous bone, in addition to the paralysis of the muscles of expression, there is loss of taste in the anterior part of the tongue, and the patient is unable to recognise the difference between bitters and sweets, acids and salines, from involvement of the chorda tympani. The mouth is dry, because the salivary glands are not secreting; and the sense of hearing is affected from paralysis of the Stapedius. When the cause of the paralysis is from fracture of the base of the skull, the auditory nerve and the petrosal nerves, which are connected with the intumescentia ganglioformis, are also involved. When the injury is after the exit of the nerve from the stylo-mastoid foramen, all the muscles of expression, except the Levator palpebrte, together with the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid, are paralysed. There is smoothness of the forehead, and the patient is unable to frown : the eyelids cannot be closed and the lower lid droops, so that the punctum is no longer in contact with the globe, and the tears run down the cheek ; there is smoothness of the cheek and loss of the naso-labial furrow; the nostril cannot be dilated ; the mouth is drawn to the sound side, and there is inability to whistle ; food collects between the cheek and gum from paralysis of the Buccinator. The facial nerve is at fault in cases of so-called 'histrionic spasm,' which consists in an almost constant and uncontrollable twitching of the muscles of the face. This twitching is sometimes so severe as to cause great discomfort and annoyance to the patient, and to interfere with sleep, and for its relief the facial nerve has been stretched. The operation is performed by making an incision behind the ear, from the root of the mastoid process to the angle of the jaw. The parotid is turned forwards and the dissection carried along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle and mastoid process, until the upper border of the posterior belly of the Digastric is found. The nerve is parallel to this on about a level of the middle of the mastoid process. When found, the nerve must be stretched by passing a blunt hook beneath it and pulling it forwards and outwards. Too great force must not be used, for fear of permanent injury to the nerve. Eighth Neeve The Eighth or Auditory Nerve (portio mollis) is the special nerve of the sense of hearing, being distributed exclusively to the internal ear. Its sujjerficial origin is from the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies at the lower border of the pons. It lies external to the facial nerve. It has two deej) origins : i. From a prominence, the auditory tubercle, on the outer side of the inferior fovea on the floor of the fourth ventricle. 2. From a nucleus situated at the lateral angle of the same ventricle. The auditory nerve winds round the restiform body, and passes forwards across the posterior border of the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, in company with the facial nerve, from which it is partially separated by a small artery (auditory). It then enters the internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve. At the bottom of the meatus, it receives one or two filaments from the facial nerve, and then divides into two branches, cochlear and vestibular, which are distributed, the former to the cochlea, the latter to the vestibule and semicircular canals. The auditory nerve is soft in texture (hence the name portio mollis), and is destitute of neurilemma. The distribution of the auditory nerve in the internal ear will be found described along with the anatomy of that organ in a subsequent page. Surgical Anatomy.—The auditory nerve is frequently injured, together with the facial nerve, in fractm^es of the middle fossa of the base of the skull implicating the internal auditory meatus. The nerve ma^^ be either torn across, producing permanent deafness, or it may be bruised or pressed upon by extravasated blood or inflammatory exudation, when the deafness will in all probability be temporary. The nerve may also be injured by violent blows on the head without fracture, and deafness may arise from loud explosions from dynamite, etc., probably from some lesion of this nerve, which is more liable to be inju]?ed than the other cranial nerves on account of its structm-e. The test that the nerve is destroyed, and that the deafness is not due to some lesion of the auditory apparatus, is obtained by placing a vibrating tuning-fork on the head. The vibrations will be heard in cases where the auditory apparatus is at fault, but not in cases of destruction of the auditory nerve. Ninth Pair (figs. 451, 452, 453) The Ninth or Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve (figs. 451, 452, 453) is distributed, as its name implies, to the tongue and pharynx, being the nerve of sensation to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, fauces, and tonsil; and a special nerve of taste