COMMON CAEOTID 527 strong fibro-celliilar lamina, the right carotid is brought into view, and being traced down- wards, the arteria innominata is arrived at. The left innominate vein should now be depressed; the right innominate vein, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve drawn to the right side ; and a curved aneurism needle may then be passed around the vessel, close to its surface, and in a direction from below upwards and inwards ; care being taken to avoid the right pleural sac, the trachea, and cardiac nerves. The ligature should be applied to the artery as high as possible, in order to allow room between it and the aorta for the formation of the coagulum. The importance of avoiding the thyroid plexus of veins during the primary steps of the operation, and the pleural sac whilst including the vessel in the ligature, should be most carefully borne in mind. The most frequent cause of death after operation is secondary haemorrhage, which has occurred in almost every case. Other causes are pleurisy, pericarditis, and suppurative cellulitis. Common Carotid Arteries The common carotid arteries, although occupying a nearly similar position in the neck, differ in position, and, consequently, in their relations at their origin. The right carotid arises from the innominate artery, behind the right sterno- clavicular articulation; the left from the highest part of the arch of the aorta. The left carotid is, consequently, longer, and at its origin is contained within the thorax. The course and relations of that portion of the left carotid which inter- venes between the arch of the aorta and the left sterno-clavicular articulation, will first be described (see fig. 344). The left carotid within the thorax ascends obliquely outwards from the arch of the aorta to the root of the neck. In front, it is separated from the first piece of the sternum by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the left innominate vein, and the remains of the thymus gland; behind, it lies on the trachea, oeso- phagus, and thoracic duct. Internally, it is in relation with the innominate artery, inferior thyroid veins and remains of Thymus gland ; externally, with the left pneumogastric nerve, left pleura, and lung. The left subclavian artery is posterior and external to it. Plan of the Relations of the Left Common Carotid. Thoracic Portion In front. Sternum. Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. Left innominate vein. Remains of thymus gland. Internally. Innominate artery. Inferior thyroid veint!. Eemains of thymus gland. Externally. lieft pneumogastric nerve. Left pleura and lung. Left subclavian artery. Behind. Trachea. CEsophagus. Thoracic duct. In the neck, the two common carotids resemble each other so closely, that one description will apply to both. Each vessel passes obliquely upwards, from behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, to a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, opposite the third cervical vertebra, where it divides into the external and internal carotid; these names being derived from the distribution of the arteries to the external parts of the head and face, and to the internal parts of the cranium and orbit respectively. At the lower part of the neck the two common carotid arteries are separated from each other by a very small interval, which contains the trachea ; but at the upper part, the thyroid body, the larynx and pharynx project forwards between the two vessels, and give the appearance of their being placed further back in that