MUSCLES AND FASCIiE 476 is somewhat depressed and flattened, and between the two portions of the muscle is often an obhque depression, wliicli differentiates the one from the other. The outer margin of the muscle is generally well marked above, and bounds the infraclavicular fossa, a triangular interval which separates the Pectoralis major from the Deltoid. It gradually becomes less marked as it approaches the tendon of insertion, and becomes more closely blended with the Deltoid muscle. Tlie lower border of the Pectoralis major forms the rounded anterior axillary fold, and corresponds with the direction of the fifth rib. The Pectoralis minor influences surface form. When the arm is raised, its lowest slip of origin produces a local fulness just below the border of the anterior fold of the axilla, and so serves to break the sharp line of the lower border of the Pectoralis major muscle which is produced when the arm is in this position. The origin of the Serratus magnus produces a very characteristic surface marking. When the arm is raised from the side, in a well-developed subject, the five or six lower serrations are plainly discernible, forming a zigzag line, caused by the series of digitations, which diminish in size from above downwards, and have their apices arranged in the form of a curve. When the arm is lying by the side, the first serration to appear, at the lower margin of the Pectoralis major, is the one attached to the fifth rib. The Deltoid, with the prominence of the upper extremity of the humerus, produces the rounded outline of the shoulder. It is rounder and fuller in front than behind, where it presents a somewhat flattened form. Its anterior border, above, presents a rounded, slightly curved eminence, which bounds externally the infraclavicular fossa ; below, it is closely united with the Pectoralis major. Its posterior border is thin, flattened, and scarcely marked above ; below, it is thicker and more prominent. When the muscle is in action, the middle portion becomes irregular, presenting alternate longitudinal elevations and depressions : the elevations corresponding to the fleshy portions ; the depressions, to the tendinous intersections of the muscle. The insertion of the Deltoid is marked by a depression on the outer side of the middle of the arm. Of the scapular muscles, the only one which materially influences surface form is the Teres major, which assists the Latissimus dorsi in forming the thick, rounded fold of the posterior boundary of the axilla. AVhen the arm is raised, the Coraco-brachialis reveals itself as a long, narrow elevation, which emerges from under cover of the anterior fold of the axilla and runs downwards, internal to the shaft of the humerus. When the arm is hanging by the side, its front and inner part presents the prominence of the Biceps, bounded on either side by an intermuscular depression. This muscle determines the contour of the front of the arm, and extends from the anterior margin of the axilla to the bend of the elbow. Its upper tendons are concealed by the Pectoralis major and the Deltoid, and its lower tendon sinks into the space at the bend of the elbow. When the muscle is in a state of complete contraction—that is to say, when the forearm has been flexed and supinated—it presents a rounded convex form, bulged out laterally and its length is diminished. On each side of the Biceps, at the lower part of the arm, the BrachiaMs anticus is discernible. On the outer side it forms a narrow eminence, which extends some distance up the arm along the border of the Biceps. On the inner side it shows itself only as a little fulness just above the elbow. On the back of the arm the long head of the Triceps may be seen as a longitudinal eminence emerging from under cover of the Deltoid, and gradually merging into the longitudinal flattened plane of the muscle on the lower part of the back of the arm. On the anterior aspect of the elbow are to be seen two muscular elevations, one on each side, separated above, and converging below so as to form a triangular space. Of these, the inner elevation, consisting of the flexors and pronator, forms the prominence along the inner side and front of the forearm. It is a fusiform mass, pointed above at the internal cond^de and gradually tapering off below. The Pronator radii teres, the innermost muscle of the group, forms the boundary of the triangular space at the bend of the elbow. It is shorter, less prominent, and more oblique than the outer boundary. The most prominent part of the eminence is produced by the Flexor carpi radialis, the muscle next in order on the inner side of the preceding one. It forms a rounded prominence above, and can be traced downwards to its tendon, which can be felt lying on the front of the wrist, nearer to the radial than to the ulnar border and to the inner side of the radial artery. The Pahnaris longus presents no surface marking above, but, below, is the most prominent tendon on the front of the wrist, standing out, when the muscle is in action, as a sharp tense cord beneath the skin. The Flexor sublimis digitorum does not directly influence surface form. The position of its four tendons on the front of the lower part of the forearm is indicated by an elongated depression between the tendons of the Palmaris longus and the Flexor carpi ulnaris. The Flexor ca rpi ulnar is occupies a small part of the posterior surface of the forearm, and is separated from the extensor and supinator group, which occupies the greater part of this surface, by the ulnar furrow, produced by the subcutaneous posterior border of the ulna. Its tendon can be perceived along the ulnar border of the front of the forearm, and is most marked when the hand is flexed and adducted. The deep muscles of the front of the forearm have no direct influence on surface form. The external group of muscles of the forearm, consisting of the extensors and supinators, occupy the outer, and a considerable portion of the posterior, surface of this region. They form a fusiform mass, which is altogether on a higher level than the pronato-flexor group. Its apex emerges from between the Triceps and Brachialis anticus muscles some distance above the elbow-joint, and acquires its greatest breadth opposite