741 FIFTH NERVE. OPHTHALMIC DIVISION from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, communicates with the third and sixth nerves, and is not unfrequently joined with the fourth. Branches of distribution.—It gives off recurrent filaments which pass between the layers of the tentorium along with a branch from the fourth nerve, and then divides into Lachrymal. Frontal. Nasal. The Lachrymal is the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic. Not unfrequently it arises by two filaments, one from the ophthalmic, the other from the fourth. It passes forwards in a separate tube of dura mater, and enters the orbit through the narrowest part of the sphenoidal fissure. In the orbit it runs along the upper border of the External rectus muscle, with the lachrymal artery, and sends oft' a recurrent branch which joins the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve, and occasionally takes the place of the temporal branch of this nerve, which is then absent. AVithin the lachrymal gland it gives off several Fig. 442.—Nerves of the orbit and ophthalmic ganglion. Side view. filaments, which supply the gland and the conjunctiva. Finally, it pierces the tarsal ligaments, and terminates in the integument of the upper eyehd, joining with filaments of the facial nerve. The Frontal is the largest division of the ophthalmic, and may be regarded, both from its size and direction, as the continuation of the nerve. It enters the orbit above the muscles, through the highest and broadest part of the sphenoidal fissure, and runs forwards along the middle line, between the Levator palpebrae and the periosteum. Midway between the apex and base of the orbit it divides into two branches, supratrochlear and supra-orbital. The supratrochlear branch, the smaller of the two, passes inwards, above the pulley of the Superior obhque muscle, and gives off a descending filament, which joins with the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve. It then escapes from the orbit between the pulley of the Superior obhque and the supra-orbital foramen, curves up on to the forehead close to the bone, and ascends beneath the Corrugator supercilii and Occipito-frontahs muscles, and supphes the integument of the lower part of the forehead on either side of the middle line. The supra-orbital branch passes forwards through the supra-orbital foramen, and gives off, in this situation, palpebral filaments to the upper eyelid. It then