POPLITEAL 619 The second or middle perforating artery, larger than the first, pierces the tendons of the Adductor brevis and Adductor magnus muscles ; and divides into ascending and descending branches, which supply the flexor muscles of the thigh, anastomosing with the superior and inferior perforating. The nutrient artery of the femur is usually given off from this branch. The third or inferior perforating artery is given off below the Adductor brevis ; it pierces the Adductor magnus, and divides into branches which supply the flexor muscles of the thigh ; anastomosing above with the perforating arteries, and below with the terminal branches of the profunda and the muscular branches of the popliteal. Muscular branches are given off from the superficial femoral throughout its entire course. They vary from two to seven in number, and supply chiefly the Sartorius and Vastus internus. The Anastomotica Magna arises from the femoral artery just before it passes through the tendinous opening in the Adductor magnus muscle, and divides into a superficial and deep branch. The superficial branch accompanies the long saphenous nerve, beneath the Sartorius, and, piercing the fascia lata, is distributed to the integument. The deep branch descends in the substance of the Vastus internus, lying in front of the tendon of the Adductor magnus, to the inner side of the knee, where it anastomoses with the superior internal articular artery and anterior recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. A branch from this vessel crosses outwards above the articular surface of the femur, forming an anastomotic arch with the superior external articular artery, and supplies branches to the knee-joint. Popliteal Artery The popliteal artery commences at the termination of the femoral at the opening in the Adductor magnus, and, passing obliquely downwards and outwards behind the knee-joint to the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, divides into the anterior and ijosterior tibial arteries. A portion of the artery lies in the popliteal space; but above, to a slight extent, and below, to a considerable extent, it is covered by the muscles which form the boundaries of the space, and is therefore beyond the confines of the hollow. The Popliteal Space (fig. 377) Dissection.—A vertical incision about eight inches in length should be made along the back part of the knee-joint, connected above and below by a transverse incision from the inner to the outer side of the limb. The flaps of integmnent included between these incisions should be reflected in the direction shown in fig. 328, page 493. Boundaries.—The popliteal space, or the ham, is a lozenge-shaped space, widest at the back part of the knee-joint, and deepest above the articular end of the femur. It is bounded externally, above the joint, by the Biceps, and, below the joint, by the Plantaris and external head of the Gastrocnemius. Internally, above the joint, by the Semimembranosus, Semitendinosus, Gracilis, and Sartorius; below the joint, by the inner head of the Gastrocnemius. Above, it is limited by the apposition of the inner and outer hamstring muscles; below, by the junction of the two heads of the Gastrocnemius. The floor is formed by the lower part of the posterior surface of the shaft of the femur, the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, the upper end of the tibia, and the fascia covering the Popliteus muscle, and the space is covered in by the fascia lata. Contents.-—It contains the popliteal vessels and their branches, together with the termination of the external saphenous vein, the internal and external popliteal nerves and some of their branches, the lower extremity of the small sciatic nerve, the articular branch from the obturator nerve, a few small lymphatic glands, and a considerable quantity of loose adipose tissue.