GENERAL ANATOMY 112 for the ulna, radius, fibula, and ilium make their appearance. The two halves of the hard palate unite. The sympathetic nerves are now for the first time to be discerned. Ninth Week.—The corpus striatum and the pericardium are first apparent. The ovary and testicle can be distinguished fi'om each other. The genital furrow appears. The osseous nuclei of the bodies and arches of the vertebrae, of the frontal, vomer, and malar bones, of the shafts of the metacarpal and metatarsal bones, and of the phalanges appear. The union of the hard palate is completed. The gall-bladder is seen. Third Month.—The formation of the fwtal placenta advances rapidly. The projection of the caudal extremity disappears. It is possible to distinguish the male and female organs from each other. The cloacal aperture is divided into two parts. The cartilaginous arches on the dorsal region of the spine close. The points of ossification for the occipital, sphenoid, lachrymal, nasal, scpianious portion of temporal and ischium appear, as well as the orbital centre of the superior maxillary. The pons Varolii and fissiu-e of Sylvius can be made out. The eyelids, the hair, and the nails begin to form. The mammary gland, the epiglottis, and prostate are beginning to develop. The union of the testicle with the canals of the Wolftian body takes place. Fourth Month.—The closure of the cartilaginous arches of the spine is complete. Osseous points for the first sacral vertebra and os pubis appear. The ossification of the malleus and incus takes place. The corpus callosum, the membrana lamina spiralis, the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, and the tympanic ring are seen. Fat is first developed in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. The tonsils are seen, and the closure of the genital furrow and the formation of the scrotum and prepuce take place. Fifth Month.—The two layers of the decidua begin to coalesce. Osseous nuclei of the axis and odontoid process, of the lateral points of the first sacral vertebra, of the median points of the second, and of the lateral masses of the ethmoid make their appearance. Ossification of the stapes and the petrous bone, and ossification of the germs of the teeth take place. The germs of the permanent teeth and the organ of Corti appear. The eruption of hair on the head commences. The sudoriferous glands, Brunner's glands, the follicles of the tonsil and base of the tongue, and the Ij-mphatic glands appear at this period. The differentiation between the uterus and vagina becomes apparent. Sixth Month.—The points of ossification for the anterior root of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, the lateral points of the second sacral vertebra, the median points of the third, the manubrium sterni and the os calcis appear. The sacro-vertebral angle forms. The cerebral hemispheres cover the cerebellum. The papillae of the skin, the sebaceous glands, and Peyer's patches make their appearance. The free border of the nail projects from the corium of the dermis. The walls of the uterus thicken. Seventh Month.—The additional points of the first sacral vertebra, the lateral points of th'e third, the median point of the fourth, the first osseous point of the body of the sternum, and the osseous point for the astragalus appear. Meckel's cartilage dis- appears. The cerebral convolutions, the island of Keil, and the tubercula quadri- gemina are apparent. The pupillar^^ membrane atrophies. The testicle passes into the vaginal process of the peritoneum. Eighth Month.—Additional points for the second sacral vertebra, lateral points for the fom'th and median points for the fifth sacral vertebrae, can be seen. Ninth Month.—Additional points for the third sacral vertebra, lateral points for the fifth, osseous points for the middle turbinated bone, for the body and great cornu of the hyoid, for the second and third pieces of the body of the sternum, and for the lower end of the femur appear. Ossification of the bony lamina spiralis and axis of the cochlea takes place. The eyelids open, and the testicles are in the scrotum.