OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY 645 dorsal surface, and form two plexuses, an inner and outer, on the back of the hand. The inner plexus is formed by the veins from the little finger (ve7ia salvatella), the ring finger, and the ulnar side of the middle finger; from it the anterior and posterior ulnar veins are derived. The outer plexus is formed by veins from the thumb, the index finger, and radial side of the middle finger ; from it the radial vein is derived. These two plexuses communicate on the back of the hand, forming the superficial arch of veins in this situation. The superficial veins from the palm of the hand form a plexus in front of the wrist, from which the median vein is derived. The Anterior Ulnar Vein commences on the anterior surface of the ulnar side of the hand and wrist, and ascends along the anterior surface of the ulnar side of the forearm to the bend of the elbow, where it joins with the posterior ulnar vein to form the common ulnar. Occasionally it opens separately into the median basilic vein. It communicates with branches of the median vein in front, and with the posterior ulnar behind. The Posterior Ulnar Vein commences on the posterior surface of the ulnar side of the wrist. It runs on the posterior surface of the ulnar side of the forearm, and just below the elbow unites with the anterior ulnar vein to form the common ulnar, or else joins the median basilic to form the basilic. It communicates with the deep veins of the palm by a branch which emerges from beneath the Abductor minimi digiti muscle. The Common Ulnar is a short trunk which is not constant. When it exists it is formed by the junction of the two preceding veins, and, passing upwards and outwards, joins the median basilic to form the basilic vein. "When it does not exist, the anterior and posterior ulnar veins open separately into the median basilic vein. The Radial Vein commences from the dorsal surface of the wrist, communi- cating with the deep veins of the palm by a branch which passes through the first interosseous space. It forms a large vessel, which ascends along the radial side of the forearm, and receives numerous veins from both its surfaces. At the bend of the elbow it unites with the median cephalic to form the cephalic vein. The Median Vein ascends on the front of the forearm, and communicates with the anterior ulnar and radial veins. At the bend of the elbow it receives a branch of communication from the deep veins, and divides into two branches, the median cephalic and median basilic, which diverge from each other as they ascend. The Median Cephalic, usually the smaller of the two, passes outwards in the groove between the Supinator longus and Biceps muscles, and joins with the radial to form the cephalic vein. The branches of the external cutaneous nerve pass beneath this vessel. The Median Basilic Vein passes obliquely inwards, in the groove between the Biceps and Pronator radii teres, and joins the common ulnar to form the basihc. This vein passes in front of the brachial artery, from which it is separated by a fibrous expansion (the bicipital fascia) which is given off from the tendon of the Biceps to the fascia covering the Flexor muscles of the forearm. Filaments of the internal cutaneous nerve pass in front as well as behind this vessel.* Venesection is usually performed at the bend of the elbow, and as a matter of practice the largest vein in this situation is commonly selected. This is usaally the median basihc, and there are anatomical advantages and disadvantages in selecting this vein. The advantages are, that in addition to its being the largest, and therefore yielding a greater supply of blood, it is the least movable and can be easily steadied on the bicipital fascia on which it rests. The disadvantages are, that it is in close relationship with the brachial artery, separated only by the bicipital fascia; and formerly, when venesection was * Cruveilhier says : ' Numerous varieties are observed in the disposition of the veins of the elbow ; sometimes the common median vein is wanting; but in those cases, its two Jbranches are furnished by the radial vein, and the cephalic is almost always in a rudimentary condition. In other cases, only two veins are found at the bend of the elbo^y, the radial and ulnar, which are continuous, without any demarcation, with the cephalic and basilic'