6o6 AETEEIES somewhat different. The description of its arrangement in the male will first be given, and subsequently the differences which it presents in the female will be mentioned. The Internal Pudic Artery in the Male passes downwards and outwards to the lower border of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and emerges from the pelvis between the Pyriformis and Coccygeus muscles : it then crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. The artery now crosses the Obturator internus muscle, along the outer wall of the ischio- rectal fossa, being situated about an inch and a half above the lower margin of the ischial tuberosity. It is here contained in a sheath of the obturator fascia, and gradually approaches the margin of the ramus of the ischium, along which it passes forwards and upwards, pierces the posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, and runs forwards along the inner margin of the ramus of the os pubis ; finally, it perforates the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, and divides into its two terminal branches, the dorsal artery of the ]jenis and the artery of the corpus ca,vernosum. Relations.—In the first part of its course, within the pelvis, it lies in front of the Pyriformis muscle and sacral plexus of nerves, and on the outer side of the rectum (on the left side). As it crosses the spine of the ischium, it is covered by the Gluteus maximus. In the pelvis, it lies on the outer side of the ischio-rectal fossa, upon the surface of the Obturator internus muscle, contained in a fibrous canal formed by the obturator fascia and the falciform process of the great sacro- sciatic ligament. It is accompanied by the pudic veins and the internal pudic nerve. Peculia7%ties.—The internal pudic is sometimes smaller than usual, or fails to give off one or two of its usual branches; in such cases, the deficiency is supplied by branches derived from an additional vessel, the accessory pudic, which generally arises from the internal pudic artery before its exit from the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It passes forwards along the lower part of the bladder and across the side of the prostate gland to the root of the penis, where it perforates the triangular ligament, and gives off the branches usually derived from the pudic artery. The deficiency most frequently met with is that in which the internal pudic ends as the artery of the bulb ; the arter}^ of the corpus cavernosum and arteria dorsalis penis being derived from the accessory pudic. Or the pudic may terminate as the superficial j)erineal, the artery of the bulb iDeing derived, with the other two branches, from the accessory vessel. Surgical Anatomy.-—The relation of the accessory pudic to the prostate gland and urethra is of the greatest interest in a surgical point of view, as this vessel is in danger of being wounded in the lateral operation of lithotomy. The student should also study the position of the internal pudic artery and its branches, when running a normal course, with regard to the same operation. The superficial and the transverse perineal arteries are, of necessity, divided in this operation, but the haemorrhage from these vessels is seldom excessive; should a ligature be required, it can readily be applied on account of their superficial position. The artery of the bulb may be divided if the incision be carried too far forwards, and injury of this vessel may be attended with serious or even fatal consequences. The main trunk of the internal pudic artery may be wounded if the incision be carried too far outwards ; but, being bound down by the strong obturator fascia, and under cover of the ramus of the ischmm, the accident is not very likely to occur unless the vessel runs an anomalous course. Branches.— The branches of the internal pudic artery are :— The muscular branches consist of two sets : one given off in the pelvis ; the other, as the vessel crosses the ischial spine. The former are several small offsets which supply the Levator ani, the Obturator internus, the Pyriformis, and the Coccygeus muscles. The branches given off outside the pelvis are distributed to the adjacent part of the Gluteus maximus and External rotator muscles. They anastomose with branches of the sciatic artery. The inferior hsemorrhoidal are two or three small arteries which arise from Muscular. Inferior Hsemorrhoidal. Superficial Perineal. Transverse Perineal. Artery of the Bulb. Artery of the Corpus Cavernosum. Dorsal Artery of the Penis.