ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION 968 thyroid membrane ; at the sides, to part of the same membrane and to the lateral Crico-arytenoid muscle ; behind, the highest point of the upper border is sur- mounted on each side by a smooth oval surface, for articulation with the arytenoid cartilage. Between the articular surfaces is a slight notch, for the attachment of part of the Arytenoideus muscle. The inner surface of the cricoid cartilage is smooth, and lined by mucous membrane. The Arytenoid Cartilages are so called from the resemblance they bear, when approximated, to the mouth of a pitcher (dpvVatm, a pitcher). They are two in number, and situated at the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, at the back of the larynx. Each cartilage is pyramidal in form, and presents for examination three surfaces, a base, and an apex. The posterior surface is triangular, smooth, concave, and gives attachment to the Arytenoid muscle. The anterior surface, somewhat convex and rough, gives attachment to the Thyro-arytenoid muscle, and to the false vocal cord. The internal surface is narroAv, smooth, and flattened, covered by mucous membrane, and lies almost in apposition with the cartilage of the opposite side. The base of each cartilage is broad, and presents a concave smooth surface, for articulation with the cricoid cartilage. Of its three angles, the external is short, rounded, and prominent, receiving the insertion of the Posterior and Lateral crico-arytenoid muscles. The anterior angle, also prominent, but more pointed, gives attachment to the true vocal cord. This angle is sometimes called the vocal process. The apex of each cartilage is pointed, curved backwards and inwards, and surmounted by a small conical-shaped, cartilaginous nodule, the corniculum I'aryngis. The cornicula laryngis [cartilages of Santorini) are two small conical nodules, consisting of yellow fibro-cartilage, which articulate with the summit of the ary- tenoid cartilages and serve to prolong them backwards and inwards. To them are attached the aryteno-e]3iglottidean folds. They are sometimes united to the arytenoid cartilages. The cuneiform cartilages [cartilages of Wrisherg) are two small, elongated, cartilaginous bodies, placed one on each side, in the fold of mucous membrane which extends from the apex of the arytenoid cartilage to the side of the epiglottis [aryteno-epiglotticlean fold) ; they give rise to small whitish elevations on the inner surface of the mucous membrane, just in front of the arytenoid cartilages. The epiglottis is a thin lamella of fibro-cartilage, of a yellowish colour, shaped like a leaf, and placed behind the tongue in front of the superior opening of the larynx. During respiration its direction is vertically upwards, its free extremity curving forwards towards the base of the tongue ; but when the larynx is drawn up beneath the base of the tongue during deglutition, it is carried downwards and backwards, so as to completely close the opening of the larynx. Its free extremity is broad and rounded ; its attached end is long and narrow, and connected to the receding angle between the two alse of the thyroid cartilage, just below the median notch, by a long, narrow, ligamentous band, the thyro-epiglottic ligament. It is also connected to the posterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone by an elastic ligamentous band, the hyo-epiglottic ligament. Its anterior or lingual surface is curved forwards towards the tongue, and covered at its upper part by mucous membrane, which is reflected on to the sides and base of the organ, forming a median and two lateral folds, the glosso-epiglot- tidean ligaments. Its posterior or laryngeal surface is smooth, concave from side to side, concavo- convex from above downwards, and covered by mucous membrane ; when this is removed, the surface of the cartilage is seen to be studded with a number of small mucous glands, which are lodged in little pits upon its surface. To its sides the aryteno-epiglottidean folds are attached.