329 EADIO-ULNAR JOINTS anterior interosseous vessels to the back of the forearm. This ligament serves to connect the bones, and to increase the extent of surface for the attachment of the deep muscles. Betv^een its upper border and the oblique ligament an interval exists, through which the posterior interosseous vessels pass. Two or three fibrous bands are occasionally found on the posterior surface of this membrane which descend obliquely from the ulna towards the radius, and which have consequently a direction contrary to that of the other fibres. It is in relation, in front, by its upper three-fourths with the Flexor longus pollicis on the outer side, and with the Flexor profundus digitorum on the inner, lying upon the interval between which are the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve ; by its lower fourth with the Pronator quadratus ; behind, with the Supinator brevis, Extensor ossis metacarpi Fig. 248.—Ligaments of wrist and hand. Anterior view. pollicis, Extensor brevis pollicis. Extensor longus pollicis, Extensor indicis; and, near the wrist, with the anterior interosseous artery and posterior inter- osseous nerve. 3. Infekioe Radio-ulnar Articulation This is a pivot-joint, formed by the head of the ulna received into the sigmoid cavity at the inner side of the lower end of the radius. The articular surfaces are covered by a thin layer of cartilage, and connected together by the following ligaments :— Anterior Radio-ulnar. Posterior Radio-ulnar. Interarticular Fibro- cartilage. The Anterior Radio-ulnar Ligament (fig. 248) is a narrow band of fibres extending from the anterior margin of the sigmoid cavity of the radius to the anterior surface of the head of the ulna. The Posterior Radio-ulnar Ligament (fig. 249) extends between similar points on the posterior surface of the articulation. The Interarticular Fibro-cartilage (fig. 251) is triangular in shape and is placed transversely beneath the head of the ulna, binding the lower end of this bone and the radius firmly together. Its circumference is thicker than its centre, which is thin and occasionally perforated. It is attached by its apex to a depression