796 SPINAL NERVES fore part of the crest of the ihum, and communicates with the ilio-hypogastric nerve between that muscle and the Internal oblique. The nerve then pierces the Internal obHque, distributing filaments to it, and, accompanying the spermatic cord through the inguinal canal, it escapes at the external abdominal ring, and is distributed to the integument of the upper and inner part of the thigh ; and to the scrotum in the male, and to the labium in the female. The size of this nerve is in inverse proportion to that of the ilio-hypogastric. Occasionally it is very small, and ends by joining the ilio-hypogastric ; in such cases, a branch from the ilio- hypogastric takes the place of the ilio-inguinal, or the latter nerve may be altogether absent. The Genito-criiral Nerve arises from the first and second lumbar nerves. It passes obliquely through the substance of the Psoas, descends on its surface for some distance, and divides into a genital and crural branch. The genital branch passes outwards on the Psoas magnus, and it then pierces the fascia transversalis, or passes through the internal abdominal ring, descends along the back part of the spermatic cord to the scrotum, and supplies, in the male, the Cremaster muscle. In the female, it accompanies the round ligament, and is lost upon it. The crural brancJi descends on the external iliac artery, sending a few filaments round it, and, passing beneath Poupart's ligament into the thigh, enters the sheath of the femoral vessels, lying superficial and a little external to the femoral artery. It pierces the anterior layer of the sheath of the vessels, and, becoming superficial by passing through the fascia lata, it supplies the skin of the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the pelvis and knee. On the front of the thigh it communicates with the outer branch of the middle cutaneous nerve, derived from the anterior crural. A few filaments from this nerve may be traced on to the femoral artery ; they are derived from the nerve as it passes beneath Poupart's ligament. The External Cutaneous Nerve arises from the second and third lumbar nerves. It emerges from the outer border of the Psoas muscle about its middle, and crosses the Iliacus muscle obliquely, to the notch immediately beneath the anterior superior spine of the ilium, where it passes under Poupart's ligament into the thigh, and divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. The anterior branch descends in an aponeurotic canal formed in the fascia lata, becomes superficial about four inches below Poupart's ligament, and divides into branches which are distributed to the integument along the anterior and outer part of the thigh, as far down as the knee. This nerve occasionally communicates with a branch of the long saphenous nerve in front of the knee-joint. The posterior branch pierces the fascia lata, and subdivides into branches which pass backwards across the outer and posterior surface of the thigh, supplying the integument from the crest of the ilium as far as the middle of the thigh. The Obturator Nerve supplies the Obturator externus and Adductor muscles of the thigh, the articulations of the hip and knee, and occasionally the integument of the thigh and leg. It arises by three branches : from the third, the fourth, and the fifth lumbar nerves. It descends through the inner fibres of the Psoas muscle, and emerges from its inner border near the brim of the pelvis; it then runs along the lateral wall of the pelvis, above the obturator vessels, to the upper part of the obturator foramen, where it enters the thigh, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, separated by some of the fibres of the Obturator externus, and lower down by the Adductor brevis muscle. The anterior branch (fig. 467) passes down in front of the Adductor brevis, being covered by the Pectineus and Adductor longus ; and at the lower border of the latter muscle communicates with the internal cutaneous and internal saphenous nerves, forming a kind of plexus. It then descends upon the femoral artery, upon which it is finally distributed. The nerve, near the obturator foramen, gives off an articular branch to the hip-joint. Behind the Pectineus, it distributes muscular branches to the Adductor longus and GraciHs, and occasionally to the Adductor