ARTERIES 590 extremity to the bone. The lower mtercostal arteries are continued anteriorly from the intercostal spaces into the abdominal wall, except the last, the subcostal, which lies throughout its whole course in the abdominal wall, since it is placed below the last rib. They pass behind the costal cartilages between the Internal oblique and Transversalis muscle to the sheath of the Rectus, where they anastomose with the internal mammary and the deep epigastric arteries. Behind, the subcostal artery anastomoses with the first lumbar artery. The posterior or dorsal branch of each intercostal artery passes backwards to the inner side of the anterior costo-transverse ligament, and divides into a muscular branch, which is distributed to the muscles and integument of the back, and a spinal branch w^hich enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina to be distributed to the spinal cord and its membranes, and to the bodies of the vertebrae in the same manner as the lateral spinal branches from the vertebral. The Abdominal Aoeta (fig. 367) The Abdominal Aorta commences at the aortic opening of the Diaphragm, in front of the body of the last dorsal vertebra, and, descending a little to the left side of the vertebral column, terminates on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, commonly a little to the left of the middle line,* where it divides into the two common iliac arteries. It diminishes rapidly in size, in consequence of the many large branches which it gives off. As it lies upon the bodies of the vertebrse, the curve which it describes is convex forwards, the greatest convexity corresponding to the third lumbar vertebra, which is a little above and to the left side of the umbilicus. Relations.—It is covered, in front, by the lesser omentum and stomach, behind which are the branches of the coeliac axis, and the solar plexus; below these, by the splenic vein, the pancreas, the left renal vein, the transverse portion of the duodenum, the mesentery, and aortic plexus. Behind, it is separated from the lumbar vertebrae by the left lumbar veins, the receptaculum chyli, and thoracic duct. On the right side, it is in relation with the inferior vena cava (the right crus of the Diaphragm bemg interposed above), the vena azygos major, thoracic duct, and right semilunar ganglion ; on the left side, with the sympathetic nerve, and left semilunar ganglion. Plan of the Relations of the Abdominal Aorta Ifi fr-onf. Lesser omentum and stomach. Branches of the coeliac axis and solar plexus. Splenic vein. Pancreas. Left renal vein. Transverse duodenum. Mesentery. Aortic plexus. Bight side. Right crus of Diaphragm. Inferior vena cava. Vena azygos major. Thoracic duct. Right semilunar ganglion. Left side. Sympathetic nerve. Left semilunar ganglion. Behind. Left lumbar veins. Receptaculum chyli. Thoracic duct. Vertebral column. * Sir Joseph Lister, having accurately examined 30 bodies in order to ascertain the exact point of termination of this vessel, found it ' either absolutely, or almost absolutely, mesial in 15, while in 13 it deviated more or less to the left, and in 2 was slightly to the right.'—Systetn of Surgery, edited by T. Holmes, 2nd ed. vol. v. p. 652.