164 THE SKELETON narrower in the midclle than at either extremity, and terminates below in the inferior meatus. It lodges the nasal duct. The Alveolar Process is the thickest and most spongy part of the bone, broader behind than in front, and excavated into deep cavities for the reception of the teeth. These cavities are eight in number, and vary in size and depth according to the teeth they contain. That for the canine tooth is the deepest; those for the molars are the widest, and subdivided into minor cavities ; those for the incisors are single, but deep and narrow. The Buccinator muscle arises from the outer surface of this process, as far forward as the first molar tooth. The Palate Process, thick and strong, projects horizontally inwards from the inner surface of the bone. It is much thicker in front than behind, and forms a considerable part of the floor of the nostril and the roof of the mouth. Its inferior surface (fig. 156) is concave, rough and uneven, and forms part of the roof of the mouth. This surface is perforated by numerous foramina for the passage of the nutrient vessels, channelled at the back part of its alveolar border Fio. 156.—The palate and alveolar arch. Anteriorpalati)ie canal Posterior])alatine canal Accesaorij palatine foramen by a longitudinal groove, sometimes a canal, for the transmission of the posterior palatine vessels, and the anterior and external palatine nerves from Meckel's gan- glion, and presents little depressions for the lodgment of the palatine glands. When the two superior maxillary bones are articulated together, a large orifice may be seen in the middle line, immediately behind the incisor teeth. This is the anterior jKilatine canal or fossa. This canal, as it passes through the thickness of the palate process, is divided into four compartments ; that is to say, two canals branch off laterally to the right and left nasal fossae, and two canals, one in front and one behind, lie in the middle line. The former pair of these canals is named the foranmia of Stenson, and through them passes the anterior or terminal branch of the descending or posterior palatine arteries, which ascends from the mouth to the nasal fossae. The remaining pair of canals is termed the foramina of Scarpa, and transmit the naso-palathie nerves, the left passing through the anterior, and the right through the posterior canal. On the palatal surface of the process, a delicate linear suture may sometimes be seen extending from the anterior palatine fossa to the interval between the lateral incisor and the canine