THE NOSE He removes the tongue from the neck, having performed a preliminary tracheotoni}-, by an incision from near the lobide of the ear, down the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid to the level of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, then forwards to the body of the hyoid bone, and upwards to near the symphysis of the jaw. The lingual artery is now secm^ed, and by a careful dissection the submaxillary lymphatic glands and the tongue removed. Eegnoli advocated the removal of the tongue by a semilunar incision in the submaxillary triangle, along the line of the lower jaw, and a vertical incision from the centre of the semilunar one backwards to the hyoid bone. Care must be taken not to carry the first incision too far backwards, so as to wound the facial arteries. The tongue is thus reached through the floor of the mouth, pulled out through the external incision, and removed with the ecraseur or knife. The great objection to this operation is that all the muscles which raise the hyoid bone and larynx are divided, and that therefore the movements of deglutition and respiration are interfered with. Finally, where both sides of the floor of the mouth are involved in the disease, or where very free access is required on account of the extension backwards of the disease to the pillars of the fauces and the tonsil, or where the lower jaw is involved, the operation recommended by Syme must be performed. This is done by an incision through the central line of the lip, across the chin, and down as far as the hyoid bone. The lower jaw is sawn through at the symphysis, and the two halves of tlje bone forcildy separated from each other. The mucous membrane is separated from the bone, and the Genio- hyo-glossi detached from the bone, and the Hyo-glossi divided. The tongue is then drawn forwards, and removed close to its attachment to the hyoid bone. Any glands which are enlarged can be removed, and if the bone is implicated m the disease, it can also be removed by freeing it from the soft parts externally and internally, and making a second section with the saw bej^ond the diseased part. Formerly many sm^geons before removing the tongue performed a preliminary tracheotomy: (i) to prevent blood entering the air passages; and (2) to allow the patient to breathe tln-ough the tube and not inspire air which had passed over a sloughy wound, and which was loaded with septic organisms and likely to induce septic ]ineumonia. By the judicious use of iodoform, this secondary evil may be obviated, and lae preliminary tracheotomy is now usually dispensed with. THE NOSE The nose is the special organ of the sense of smell: by means of the peculiar properties of its nerves, it protects the lungs from the inhalation of deleterious gases, and assists the organ of taste in discriminating the properties of food. Figs. 482, 483.—Cartilages of the nose. The organ of smell consists of two parts : one external, the nose; the other internal, the nasal fosses. The nose is the more anterior and prominent part of the organ of smell. It is of a triangular form, directed vertically downwards, and projects from the centre of the face, immediately above the upper lip. Its summit, or root, is connected