849 CRYSTALLINE LENS AND ITS CAPSULE lens each contain a nucleus, which together form a layer (nuclear layer) on the surface of the lens, most distinct towards its circumference. The meridians, or lines of junction of the three segments, are composed of an amorphous granular substance which sometimes becomes opaque, when the lines are seen forming a distinct star on the lens. The lines on one surface do not lie immediately opposite those on the other, but are intermediate. The changes produced in the lens by age are the following :— In the foetus, its form is nearly spherical, its colour of a slightly reddish tint, it is not perfectly transparent, and is so soft as to break down readily on the slightest pressure. In the adult, the posterior surface is more convex than the anterior ; it is colourless, transparent, and firm in texture. In old age it becomes flattened on both surfaces, slightly opaque, of an amber tint, and increases in density. The susijensory ligament of the lens is a thin, transparent, membranous struc- ture, placed between the vitreous body and the ciliary processes of the choroid; it connects the anterior margin of the vitreous humour with the anterior surface of the lens near its circumference. It assists in retaining the lens in its position. Its outer surface presents a number of folds or plaitings in which the corresponding folds of the ciliary processes are received. These plaitings are arranged round the lens in a radiating form, and are stained by the pigment of the ciliary processes. The suspensory ligament is a part of the hyaloid membrane, which, as described above, is continued forwards to the anterior part of the margin of the lens. It is covered on its outer surface by the pars ciliaris, or connective-tissue framework of the retina, prolonged forwards from the ora serrata. That portion of this membrane which intervenes between the ciliary processes and the capsule of the lens forms i^art of the boundary of the posterior chamber of the eye. The posterior surface of this layer is turned towards the vitreous humour, being separated from it at the circumference of the lens by a space called the canal of Petit. The canal of Petit is about one-tenth of an inch wide. It is bounded, in front, by the suspensory ligament; behind, by the vitreous humour, its base being formed by the capsule of the lens. When inflated with air, it is sacculated at intervals, owing to the foldings on its anterior surface. The arteries of the globe of the eye are the short, long, and anterior ciliary arteries, and the arteria centralis retinae. They have been already described (see page 550). _ ^ The ciliary veins are seen on the outer surface of the choroid, and are named, from their arrangement, the ven(B vorticosce. They converge to four or five equidistant trunks which pierce the sclerotic midway between the margin of the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. Another set of veins accompany the anterior ciliary arteries and open into the ophthalmic vein. The ciliary nerves are derived from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and from the ciliary or ophthalmic ganglion. Surgical Anatomy.—Foreign bodies frequently get into the conjunctival sac and cause great pain, especially if they come in contact with the corneal surface, during the move- ments of the lid and the eye on each other. The conjunctiva is frequently involved in severe injuries of the eyeball, but is seldom ruptured alone; the most common form of injury to the conjunctiva alone is from a burn, either from fire, strong acids, or lime. In these cases union is liable to take place between the eyelid and the eyeball. The conjunctiva is often the seat of inflammation arising from many different causes, and the arrangement of the conjunctival vessels should be remembered as affording a means of diagnosis between this condition and injection of the sclerotic, which is present in inflammations of the deeper structures of the globe. The inflamed conjunctiva is bright red; the vessels are large and tortuous, and greatest at the circumference, shading off towards the corneal margin; they anastomose freely and form a dense network, and they can be emptied or displaced by gentle pressure. From a surgical point of view the cornea may be regarded as consisting of three layers : (i) of an external epithelial layer, developed from the epiblast, and continuous with the external epithelial covering of the rest of the body, and therefore in its lesions resembling those of the epidermis and superficial layers of the derma ; (2) of the cornea proper, derived 31