297 OF THE ATLAS WITH THE AXIS column being turned to one or the other side. This movement takes place only to a slight extent in the neck, but is freer in the upper part of the dorsal region, and is altogether absent in the lumbar region. It is thus seen that the cervical region enjoys the greatest extent of each variety of movement, flexion and extension especially being very free. In the dorsal region, the three movements of flexion, extension, and circumduction are only permitted to a slight extent; while rotation is very free in the upper part and ceases below. In the lumbar region there is free flexion, extension, and lateral movement, but no rotation. As Sir George Humphry has pointed out, the movements permitted are mainly due to the shape and position of the articulating processes. In the loins the inferior articulating processes are turned outwards and embraced by the superior; this renders rotation in this region of the spine impossible, while there is nothing to prevent a sliding upwards and downwards of the surfaces on each other so as to allow of flexion and extension. In the dorsal region, on the other hand, the articulating processes, by their direction and mutual adaptation, especially at the upper part of the series, permit of rotation, but prevent extension and flexion ; while in the cervical region the greater obliquity and lateral slant of the articular processes allow not only flexion and extension, but also rotation. The principal muscles which produce flexion are the Sterno-mastoid, Rectus capitis anticus major, and Longus colli; the Scaleni; the abdominal muscles and the Psoas magnus. Extension is produced by the fourth layer of the muscles of the back, assisted in the neck by the Splenius, Semispinalis dorsi et colli, and the Multifidus spinse. Lateral motion is produced by the fourth layer of the muscles of the back, by the Splenius and the Scaleni, the muscles of one side only acting ; and rotation by the action of the following muscles of one side only, viz. the Sterno-mastoid, the Eectus capitis anticus major, the Scaleni, the Multifidus spinae, the Complexus, and the abdominal muscles. The articulation of the Atlas with the Axis is of a complicated nature, comprising no fewer than four distinct joints. There is a pivot articulation between the odontoid process of the axis and the ring formed between the anterior arch of the atlas and the transverse ligament (see fig. 230). Here there are two joints : one in front between the posterior surface of the anterior arch of the atlas and the front of the odontoid process (the atlo-odontoid joint of Cruveilliier) ; the other between the anterior surface of the transverse ligament and the back of the process (the syndesmo-odontoid joint). Between the articulating processes of the two bones there is a double arthrodia or gliding joint. The ligaments which connect these bones are the Of the Two Anterior Atlanto-axial Ligaments (fig. 228), the more superficial is a rounded cord, situated in the middle line ; it is attached, above, to the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas ; below, to the base of the odontoid process and to the front of the body of the axis. The deeper ligament is a membranous layer, attached, above, to the lower border of the anterior arch of the atlas; below, to the base of the odontoid process, and front of the body of the axis. These ligaments are in relation, in front, with the Recti antici majores. The Posterior Atlanto-axial Ligament (fig. 229) is a broad and thin membranous layer, attached, above, to the lower border of the posterior arch of the atlas ; below, to the upper edge of the laminas of the axis. This ligament supplies the place of the ligamenta subflava, and is in relation, behind, with the Inferior oblique muscles. II. Aeticulation of the Atlas with the Axis Two Anterior Atlanto-axial. Posterior Atlanto-axial. Transverse. Two Capsular.