GLUTEAL REGION 495 is placed immediately beneath the preceding. It is fan-shaped, arising from the outer sm'face of the ilium, between the middle and inferior curved lines, and behind, from the margin of the great sacro-sciatic notch: the fibres converge to the deep surface of a radiated aponeurosis, which, terminating in a tendon, is inserted into an impression on the anterior border of the great trochanter. A synovial bursa is interposed between the tendon and the great trochanter. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the Gluteus medius, and the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve. By its deep surface, with the ilium, the reflected tendon of the Rectus femoris, and capsular ligament of the hip-joint. Its anterior margin is blended with the Gluteus medius. Its posterior margin is often joined with the tendon of the Pyriformis. The Pyriformis is a flat muscle, pyramidal in shape, lying almost parallel with the posterior margin of the Gluteus medius. It is situated partly within the pelvis at its posterior part, and partly at the back of the hip-joint. It arises from the front of the sacrum by three fleshy digitations, attached to the portions of bone between the first, second, third, and fourth anterior sacral foramina, and also from the grooves leading from the foramina : a few fibres also arise from the margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and from the anterior surface of the great sacro- sciatic ligament. The muscle passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro- sciatic foramen, the upper part of which it fills, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the upper border of the great trochanter, behind, but often blended with, the tendon of the Obturator internus and Gemelli muscles. Relations.—By its anterior surface, within tlie pelvis, with the Rectum (espe- cially on the left side), the sacral plexus of nerves, and the branches of the internal iliac vessels ; external to the pelvis, with the os innominatum and capsular liga- ment of the hip-joint. By its posterior surface, within tiie pelvis, with the sacrum ; and external. to it, with the Gluteus maximus. By its upper border, with the Gluteus medius, from which it is separated by the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve. By its loiuer border, with the Gemellus superior and Coccygeus ; the sciatic vessels and nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, and muscular branches from the sacral plexus, passing from the pelvis in the interval between the two muscles. The Obturator membrane is a thin layer of interlacing fibres, which closes the obturator foramen. It is attached, externally, to the margin of the foramen ; internally, to the posterior surface of the ischio-pubic ramus, internal to the inner margin of the foramen. It is occasionally incomplete, and presents at its upper and outer part a small canal, which is bounded below by a thickened band of fibres, for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. Each Obturator muscle is connected with this membrane. Dissection.—The next muscle, as well as the origin of the Pyriformis, can only be seen when the pelvis is divided and the viscera removed. The Obturator internus, like the preceding muscle, is situated partly within the cavity of the pelvis, and partly at the back of the hip-joint. It arises from the inner surface of the anterior and external wall of the pelvis, around the inner side of the obturator foramen, being attached to the descending ramus of the os pubis and the ascending ramus of the ischium, and at the side to the inner surface of the body of the ischium, between the margin of the obturator foramen in front, and the great sacro-sciatic notch behind, and to the inner surface of the ilium below the brim of the true pelvis. It also arises from the inner surface of the obturator membrane except at its lower part, and from the tendinous arch which completes the canal for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. The fibres are directed backwards and downwards, and terminate in four or five tendinous bands, which are found on its deep surface ; these bands are reflected at a right angle over the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, which is grooved for their reception : the groove is covered with cartilage, and lined with a synovial bursa. The muscle leaves the pelvis by the lesser sacro-sciatic notch ; and the tendinous bands unite into a single flattened tendon, which passes horizontally