NEEVOUS SYSTEM their walls are surrounded by a close network of lymphatics and capillary blood- vessels. The ^posterior lobe is developed by an outgrowth from the embryonic brain, and during foetal life contains a cavity which communicates through the infundibulum with the cavity of the third ventricle. In the adult it becomes firmer and more soUd, and consists of a sponge-like connective tissue arranged in the form of reticulating bundles, between which are branched cells, some of them containing pigment. In the lower animals the two lobes are quite distinct, and it is only in the mammalia that they become connected together. The corpora albicantia, or mammillaria, are two small, round, white masses, each about the size of a pea, placed side by side immediately behind the tuber cinereum. They are formed by the anterior crura of the fornix, hence called the bulbs of the fornix, which, after descending to the base of the brain, are folded upon themselves before passing upwards to the thalami optici. They are composed externally of white substance, and internally of grey matter ; the grey matter of the two being connected by a transverse commissure of the same material. At an early period of foetal life they are blended together into one large mass, but become separated about the seventh month. The posterior perforated space {200ns Tarini) corresponds to a whitish-grey substance placed between the corpora albicantia in front, the pons Varolii behind, and the crura cerebri on each side. It forms the back part of the floor of the third ventricle. It is perforated by numerous small orifices for the passage of the postero-median ganglionic branches of the posterior cerebral and posterior communicating arteries. The crura cerebri (peduncles of the cerebrum) are two thick cylindrical bundles of white matter, which emerge from the anterior border of the pons, and diverge as they pass forwards and outwards to enter the under part of either hemisphere. Each crus is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and somewhat broader in front than behind. They are marked upon their surface with longitudinal stri^, and each is crossed, just before entering the hemisphere, by a flattened white band, the optic tract, which is adherent by its upper border to the peduncle. The third nerve may be seen emerging from a groove on the inner side of each crus, and the fourth nerve winding round its outer side from above. Structure of the Crura.—Each crus consists of a superficial layer of longitudinal white fibres, the crusta, continued upwards from the pons; of a deeper layer, a prolongation of the reticular formation, termed the tegmentum; and of an inter- mediate stratum of grey matter, the locus niger. The crusta, or the superficial layer of longitudinal fibres, consists of coarse bundles of nerve-fibres, which are collected on the under or free surface of the crus. It is formed almost entirely of longitudinal fibres continuous with the pyramidal fibres of the medulla and pons, those derived from the medulla occupying the central portion of the crusta, those added in the pons being placed laterally. The fibres pass to the cerebral hemispheres, entering the internal capsule. The tegmentum forms the deeper part of the crus cerebri, and is united below with its fellow of the opposite side by a prolongation of the septum of the pons; but separated above by the posterior perforated space. It consists of longitudinal bundles of white fibres, interlaced by transverse fibres, together with a quantity of grey raatter with scattered nerve-cells. It forms a well-marked/onwai^io reticularis similar to that found in the pons and medulla, with which it is continuous, receiving, however, a bundle of fibres (superior peduncle) from the cerebellum. Above, the fibres enter the optic thalamus. The locus niger is a mass of grey matter, situated between the crusta and tegmentum, and projecting here and there between the bundles of the former. It is thicker at the inner than at the outer side, and is traversed in its mesial part by the fibres of origin of the third nerve. It contains irregular nerve-cells, in which are lodged numerous dark pigment-granules. The posterior lobes of the cerebrum are concealed from view by the upper surface of the cerebellum and pons Varohi. When these parts are raised, the two