885 THE PALATE Previous to the permanent teeth ^Denetrating the gum, the bony partitions which separate their sacs from the deciduous teeth are absorbed, the fangs of the temporary teeth disappear by absorption, through the agency of particular multi-nucleated cells, called odontoclasts, which are developed at the time in the neighbourhood of the fang, and the permanent teeth become placed under the loose crowns of the deciduous teeth; the latter finally become detached, and the permanent teeth take their place in the mouth. The eruption of the permanent teeth takes place at the following periods, the teeth of the lower jaw preceding those of the upper by a short interval:— 6\ years, first molars. loth year, second bicuspid. 7th year, two middle incisors. nth to 12th year, canine. 8th year, two lateral incisors. 12th to 13th year, second molars. 9th year, first bicuspid. 17th to 21st year, wisdom-teeth. The Palate The palate forms the roof of the mouth : it consists of two portions, the hard palate in front, the soft palate behind. The hard palate is bounded in front and at the sides by the alveolar arches and gums ; behind, it is continuous with the soft palate. It is covered by a dense structure formed by the periosteum and mucous membrane of the mouth, which are intimately adherent together. Along the middle hne is a linear ridge or raphe, which terminates anteriorly in a small papilla, corresponding with the inferior opening of the anterior palatine fossa. This papilla receives filaments from the naso-palatine and anterior palatine nerves. On either side and in front of the raphe the mucous membrane is thick, pale in colour, and corrugated; behind, it is thin, smooth, and of a deeper colour : it is covered with squamous epithelium, and furnished with numerous glands (palatal glands), which lie between the mucous membrane and the surface of the bone. The soft palate {velum ijenduimn palati) is a movable fold, suspended from the posterior border of the hard palate, and forming an incom]Dlete septum between the mouth and ]3harynx. It consists of a fold of mucous membrane, enclosing muscular fibres, an aponeurosis, vessels, nerves, adenoid tissue, and mucous glands. When occupying its usual position (i.e. relaxed and pendent), its anterior surface is concave, continuous with the roof of the mouth, and marked by a median ridge or raphe, which indicates its original separation into two lateral halves. Its posterior surface is convex, and continuous with the mucous membrane covering the floor of the posterior nares. Its upper border is attached to the posterior margin of the hard palate, and its sides are blended with the pharynx. Its lower border is free. Hanging from the middle of its lower border is a small, conical-shaped, pendulous process, the uvula ; and arching outwards and downwards from the base of the uvula on each side are two curved folds of mucous membrane, containing muscular fibres, called the arches or pillars of the soft palate. The anterior pillars run downwards, outwards, and forwards to the sides of the base of the tongue, and are formed by the projection of the Palato-glossi muscles, covered by mucous membrane. The posterior pillars are nearer to each other, and larger than the anterior; they run downwards, outwards, and backwards to the sides of the pharynx, and are formed by the projection of the Palato-pharyngei muscles, covered by mucous membrane. The anterior and posterior pillars are separated below by a triangular interval, in which the tonsil is lodged. The space left between the arches of the palate on the two sides is called the isthmus of the fauces. It is bounded, above, by the free margin of the soft palate ; below, by the back of the tongue ; and on each side, by the pillars of the soft palate and the tonsil. The mucous memhraVi6 of the soft palate is thin, and covered with squamous