ORGANS OF DIGESTION 942 contact with the left renal vessels, the left suprarenal capsule, and the left kidney. Near the upper border of this surface is a groove, running from the centre of the gland to the left, in which is lodged the splenic artery and vein. The inferior surface is narrow, and lies above the third portion of the duodenum, from which it is separated in the middle line by the superior mesenteric vessels, which tilt it somewhat forwards. The left extremity of this surface rests on the splenic flexure of the colon. Projecting above the pancreas, where it crosses the aorta, is the coeliac axis. The pancreatic duct, called the canal of Wirsung, from its discoverer, extends transversely from left to right through the substance of the pancreas, nearer to its lower than its upper border, and lying nearer its anterior than its posterior surface. In order to expose it, the superficial portion of the gland must be removed. It commences by the junction of the small ducts of the lobules situated in the tail of the pancreas, and, running from right to left, it constantly receives the ducts of the various lobules composing the gland, and, considerably augmented in size, it leaves Fig. 554.—The pancreas and its relations. the head of the pancreas, and, descending slightly, it gets into relation with the common bile-duct, lying to its left side, and, passing very obliquely through the mucous and muscular coats of the duodenum, it terminates by an orifice common to it and the ductus communis choledochus upon the summit of an elevated papilla, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, a little below its middle. Sometimes the pancreatic duct and ductus communis choledochus open sepa- rately into the duodenum. The excretory duct of the lesser pancreas is called the ductus iiancreaticus minor ; it opens into the main duct near the duodenum, and sometimes separately into that intestine, at a distance of an inch or more from the termination of the principal duct. The pancreatic duct, near the duodenum, is about the size of an ordinary quill: its walls are thin, consisting of two coats, an external fibrous and an internal mucous ; the latter is thin, smooth, and furnished, near its termination, with a few scattered follicles. Sometimes the pancreatic duct is double up to its point of entrance into the duodenum. In structure, the pancreas resembles the salivary glands. It differs from them.