GENERAL ANATOMY by thin-brancliecl processes ; and 2, granular cells, some of which are of the size of white blood-corpuscles, and like them possessed of amoeboid movements ; others are of larger size, and do not exhibit amoeboid movements to any appreciable extent. They lie embedded in the ground-substance, and in some situations, where the areolar tissue is loose and the spaces large, so as to contain several cells, they form a sort of lining for it. In other situations where the tissue forms a membranous layer, the flattened cells, here unbranched, form an epithelial-like covering to its surface. Vessels and Nerves of Connective Tissue.—The blood-vessels of connective tissue are very few—that is to say, there are few actually destined for the tissue itself, although many vessels may permeate one of its forms, the areolar tissue, carrying blood to othe*r structures. In white fibrous tissue the blood-vessels usually run parallel to the longitudinal bundles and between them, sending transverse communi- cating branches across, and in some forms, as the periosteum and dura mater> being fairly numerous. In the yellow elastic tissue, the blood-vessels also run between the fibres, and do not penetrate them. Lymphatic vessels are very numerous in most forms of connective tissue, especially in the areolar tissue beneath the skin and the mucous and serous surfaces. They are also found in abundance in the sheaths of tendons, as well as in the tendons themselves. Nerves are to be found in the white fibrous tissue, where they terminate in a special manner; but it is doubtful whether any nerves terminate in areolar tissue ; at all events, they have not yet been demonstrated, and the tissue is possessed of very little sensibility. Development of Connective Tissue.—Fibrous connective tissue is developed from embryonic connective-tissue cells derived from the mesoblast. At an early period of development it consists of nucleated cells and a muco-albuminous fluid, which subsequently becomes a pellucid jelly, and forms the ground-substance. In this ground-substance the two varieties of fibres become developed. As to the manner in which they do so there are two theories, some believing that they are developed from the protoplasm of the cells, others that they are formed by a deposit in the ground-substance. In the former case the protoplasm of the cells is converted wholly into elementary fibres, the nucleus disappearing ; or else the peripheral part of the protoplasm produces the fibrous tissue, the original cell growing again to its original size, and then throwing off a fresh portion to form a new cell, and itself persisting in contact with the fibres it has formed as a permanent connective- tissue corpuscle. Yellow elastic fibres are said by some to be formed by the processes of stellate embryonal cells, which, joining with processes of other cells, form the elastic fibres. Three special forms of connective tissue must be described : the mucoid, the lymphoid or retiform, and basement-membranes. 1. The mucoid or gelatinous connective tissue exists chiefly in the 'jelly of Wharton,' which forms the bulk of the umbilical cord, but is also found in some | other situations in the foetus, as in the pulp of young teeth, and in certain stages of the development of connective tissue in various regions. In the adult, the vitreous humour of the eye is formed of the same material. This tissue consists of nucleated cells, which branch and become connected so as to form trabeculae, in which is contained a jelly-like substance, containing the chemical principle of mucus, or mucin, and in smaller quantities albumen, but no gelatin. Sometimes, as in the vitreous humour of the eye, the cells disappear, and the jelly only remains. 2. Retiform connective tissue (fig. 18) is found extensively in many parts of the body, forming the framework of some organs and entering into the construction of many mucous membranes. It is formed of an interlacement or network of very fine fibres, Avhich closely resemble white fibrous tissue, and in certain situations may be demonstrated to be continuous with it. In many places flattened cells may be seen connected with the fibres and partially concealing them, presenting an appearance as if the tissue were formed of a network of branching and anasto- mosing cells. This, however, is not so, as the cells can be removed or brushed