1027 THE VAS DEFERENS the rete testis terminate in from twelve to fifteen or twenty ducts, the vasa efferentia : they perforate the tunica albuginea, and carry the seminal fluid from the testis to the epididymis. Their course is at first straight, they then become enlarged, and exceedingly convoluted, and form a series of conical masses, the coni vasculosi, which, together, constitute the globus major of the epididymis. Each cone consists of a single convoluted duct, from six to eight inches in length, the diameter of which gradually decreases from the testis to the epididymis. Op- posite the bases of the cones, the efferent vessels open at narrow intervals into a single duct, which constitutes, by its complex convolutions, the body and globus minor of the epididymis. When the convolutions of this tube are un- ravelled, it measures upwards of twenty feet in length, and increases in breadth and thickness as it approaches the vas deferens. The convolutions are held together by fine areolar tissue, and by bands of fibrous tissue. The vasa recta are of smaller diameter than the seminal tubes, and have very thin parietes. They, as well as the channels of the rete testis, are lined by a single layer of flattened epithelium. The vasa eft'erentia and the tube of the epi- didymis have walls of considerable thick- ness, on account of the presence in them of muscular tissue, which is principally arranged in a circular manner. These tubes are lined by columnar ciliated epi- thelium. The Vas Deferens, the excretory duct of the testis, is the continuation of the epididymis. Commencing at the lower part of the globus minor, it ascends along the posterior surface of the testis and inner side of the epididymis, and along the back part of the spermatic cord, through the spermatic canal to the internal or deep abdominal ring. From the ring it curves round the outer side of the epigastric artery, crosses the external iliac vessels, and descends into the pelvis at the side of the bladder; it arches backwards and downwards to its base, crossing over the obliterated hypogastric artery, and to the inner side of the ureter. At the base of the bladder it lies between that viscus and the rectum, running along the inner border of the vesicula seminalis. In this situation it becomes enlarged and sacculated, forming the amjndla ; and then, becoming narrowed at the base of the prostate, unites with the duct of the vesicula seminalis to form the ejaculatory duct. The vas deferens presents a hard and cord-like sensation to the fingers ; it is about two feet in length, of cylindrical form, and about a line and a quarter in diameter. Its walls are dense, measuring one-third of a line ; and its canal is extremely small, measuring about half a line. Structure.—The vas deferens consists of three coats : i. An external, or cellular coat. 2. A muscular coat, which in the greater part of the tube consists of two layers of unstriped muscular fibre : an outer, longitudinal in direction, and an inner, circular ; but in addition to these, at the commencement of the vas deferens, there is a third layer, consisting of longitudinal fibres, placed internal to the circular stratum, between it and the mucous membrane. 3. An internal, or mucous coat, which is pale, and arranged in longitudinal folds ; its epithelial covering is of the columnar variety. A long narrow tube, the vas aherrans of Haller, is occasionally found connected 3 u 2 Fig. 60Q.—Vertical section of the testicle, to show the arrangement of the ducts.