ORGANS OF SENSE showed that the secretion proceeded from the mucous membrane, and not, as was formerly hnagined, from the brain. It is intimately adherent to the periosteum or perichondrium, over which it lies. It is continuous externally with the skin through the anterior nares, and with the mucous membrane of the pharynx through the posterior nares. From the nasal fossae its continuity may be traced with the conjunctiva, through the nasal duct and lachrymal canals; with the lining membrane of the tympanum and mastoid cells, through the Eustachian tube; and with the frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal sinuses, and the antrum of Highmore, through the several openings in the meatuses. The mucous membrane is thickest, and most vascular, over the turbinated bones. It is also thick over the septum; but, in the intervals between the spongy bones, and on the floor of the nasal fossae, it is very thin. Where it lines the various sinuses and the antrum of Highmore, it is thin and pale. Owing to the great thickness of this membrane, the nasal fossae are much narrower, and the turbinated bones, especially the lower ones, appear larger and more prominent than in the skeleton. From the same circumstance, also, the various apertures communicating with the meatuses are either' narrowed or completely closed. In the stqjerior meatus, the aperture of communication with the posterior ethmoidal cells is considerably diminished in size, and the spheno-palatine foramen completely covered in. In the middle meatus, the opening of the infundibulum is partially hidden by a projecting fold of mucous membrane, and the orifice of the antrum is contracted to a small circular aperture, much narrower than in the skeleton. In the inferior meatus, the orifice of the nasal duct is partially hidden by either a single or double valvular mucous fold, and the anterior palatine canal either completely closed in, or a tubular cul-de-sac of mucous membrane is continued a short distance into it. This cul-de-sac is termed the organ of Jacobson, and is present in all mammals as well as man. In the former it consists of a bilateral tube, situated in the nasal septum and supported by hyaline cartilage, the cartilage of Jacobson. In the roof, the opening leading to the sphenoidal sinus is narrowed, and the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid completely closed in. Structure of the mucous membrane.—The epithelium covering the mucous membrane differs in its character according to the functions of the part of the nose in which it is found. Near the orifice of the nostril, the vestibule, where common sensation is chiefly or alone required, the epithelium is of the ordinary pavement or scaly variety. In the rest of the cavity, below the distribution of the olfactory nerves, i.e. in the respiratory portion of the nasal cavity, the epithelium is columnar and ciliated. This is the case also in the meatuses of the nose. In this region, beneath the epithelium and its basement membrane, is a fibrous layer infiltrated with lymph-corpuscles, so as to form in many parts a difiuse adenoid tissue, and beneath this a nearly continuous layer of smaller and larger glands, some mucous and some serous, the ducts of which open upon the surface. In the olfactory region, i.e. the region in which thje terminal filaments from the olfactory nerves are distributed (see page 735), the epithelial cells are columnar and, for the most part, non-ciliated: their free surface presents a sharp outline, and their deep extremity is prolonged into a process which runs inwards, branching to commu- nicate with similar processes from neighbouring cells, so as to form a network in the deep part of the mucous membrane. Lying between them are cells (termed by Max Schultze, oZ/«ctor^ ce/Zs), which consist of a nucleated body and two processes, of which one runs outwards between the columnar epithelial cells, and projects on the surface of the mucous membrane; the other (the deep) process runs inwards, is frequently beaded like a nerve-fibre, and is believed by most observers to be in connection with one of the terminal filaments of the olfactory nerve. Amongst the branched ends of the columnar cells there is a deep layer of epithelial cells, of a conical shape, their broad end resting on the basement membrane, and their