SUBCLAVIAN 561 integument should be drawn downwards upon the clavicle, and an incision made through it, upon that bone, from the anterior border of the Trapezius to the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, to which may be added a short vertical incision meeting the preceding in its centre. The object in drawing the skin downwards is to avoid any risk of wounding the external jugular vein, for as it perforates the deep fascia above the clavicle, it cannot be drawn downwards with the skin. The cervical fascia should be divided upon a director, and if the interval between the Trapezius and Sterno-mastoid muscles be insufticient for the performance of the operation, a portion of one or both may be divided. The external jugular vein will now be seen towards the inner side of the wound : this and the supra- scapular and transverse cervical veins which terminate in it should be held aside. If the external jugular vein is at all in the way and exposed to injury, it should be tied in two places and divided- The suprascapular artery should be avoided, and the Omo-hyoid muscle held aside if necessary. In the space beneath this muscle, careful search must be made for the vessel; a deep layer of fascia and some connective tissue having been divided carefully, the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus muscle must be felt for, and the finger being guided by it to the first rib, the pulsation of the subclavian artery will be felt as it passes over the rib. The aneurism needle may then be passed around the vessel from above downwards and inwards so as to avoid including any of the branches of the brachial plexus. If the clavicle is so raised by the tumour that the application of the ligature cannot be effected in this situation, the artery may be tied above the first rib, or even behind the Scalenus anticus muscle ; the difficulties of the operation in such a case will be materially increased, on account of the greater depth of the artery, and the alteration in position of the surrounding parts. The second part of the subclavian artery, from being that portion which rises highest in the neck, has been considered favourable for the application of the ligature, when it is difficult to tie the artery in the third part of its cou.rse. There are, however, many objections to the operation in this situation. It is necessary to divide the Scalenus anticus muscle, upon which lies the phrenic nerve, and at the inner side of which is situated the internal jugular vein ; and a wound of either of these structures might lead to the most dangerous consequences. Again, the artery is in contact, below, with the pleura, which must also be avoided ; and, lastly, the proximity of so many of its large branches arising internal to this point must be a still further objection to the operation. In cases, however, where the sac of an axillary aneurism encroaches on the neck, it may be necessary to divide the outer half or two-thirds of the Scalenus anticus muscle, so as to place the ligature on the vessel at a greater distance from the sac. The operation is performed exactly in the same way as ligature of the third portion, until the Scalenus anticus is exposed, when it is to be divided on a director (never to a greater extent than its outer two-thirds), and it immediately retracts. The operation is therefore merely an extension of ligature of th6 third portion of the vessel. In those cases of aneurism of the axillary or subclavian artery which encroach upon the outer portion of the Scalenus muscle to such an extent that a ligature cannot be applied in that situation, it may be deemed advisable, as a last resource, to tie the first portion of the subclavian artery. On the left side, this operation is almost impracticable; the great depth of the artery from the surface, its intimate relation with the pleura, and its close proximity to the thoracic duct and to so many important veins and nerves, present a series of difficulties which it is next to impossible to overcome.* On the right side, the operation is practicable, and has been performed, though never with success. The main objection to the operation in this situation is the smallness of the interval which usually exists between the commencement of the vessel and the origin of the nearest branch. The operation may be performed in the following manner:—The patient being placed on the table in the horizontal position, with the neck extended, an incision should be made along the upper border of the inner part of the clavicle, and a second along the inner border of the Sterno-mastoid, meeting the former at an angle. The sternal attachment of the Sterno- mastoid may now be divided on a director, and turned outwards; a few small arteries and veins, and occasionally the anterior jugular, must be avoided, or, if necessary, ligatured in two places and divided, and the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles divided in the same manner as the preceding muscle. After tearing through the deep fascia with the finger-nail, the internal jugular vein will be seen crossing the subclavian artery; this should be pressed aside, and the artery secured bypassing the needle from below upwards, by which the pleura is more effectually avoided. The exact position of the vagus nerve, the recurrent laryngeal, the phrenic and sympathetic nerves should be remembered, and the ligature should be applied near the origin of the vertebral, in order to afford as much room as possible for the formation of a coagulum between the ligature and the origin of the vessel. It should be remembered, that the right subclavian artery is occasionally deeply placed in the first part of its course, when it arises from the left side of the aortic arch, and passes in such cases behind the oesophagus, or between it and the trachea. Collateral Circulation.—After ligature of the third part of the subclavian artery, the * The operation was, however, performed in New York by Dr. J. K. Kodgers, and the case is related in A System of Surgery, edited by T. Holmes, 2nd ed. vol. iii. pp. 620, &c. 0 0