NERVOUS TISSUE 41 posed of the two above-described kinds of nervous structure, the chemical composi- tion of which is shown by the following analysis, by Lassaigne, which represents the relative proportion of the different constituents composing the grey and white matter of the brain. Grey White Water 85-2 73-0 Albuminous matter 7*5 9'9 Colourless fat ro 13-9 Eedfat 37 0-9 Osmazome and lactates i'4 I'o Phosphates i'2 1-3 It appears from this analysis that the cerebral substance consists of albumen, dissolved in water, combined with fatty matter and salts. The fatty matters consist of cerebrin, neurin, and lecithin. The two latter were first described by Liebreich as a crystalline phosphuretted fat, which he termed protagon. It seems probable, however, that it is simply a mixture of neurin and lecithin. Cholesterine is also described as one of the chemical constituents of the nervous tissues, being found in conjunction with lecithin. The salts are the phosphates of potash, soda, lime, magnesia, and iron, sulphate of potash and chloride of sodium, with traces of silica. According to Vauquelin, the cord contains a larger proportion of fat than the brain ; and according to L'Heritier, the nerves contain more albumen and more soft fat than the brain. The nervous structures are divided, as before mentioned, into two great systems— viz. the cerehro-S'pinal, comprising the brain and spinal cord, the nerves connected with these structures, and the ganglia situated on them; and the sympathetic, consisting of a double chain of ganglia and the nerves connected with them. All these structures require separate consideration ; they are composed of the two kinds of nervous tissue above described, intermingled in various proportions and having, in some parts, a very intricate arrangement. The brain or encephalon is that part of the cerebro-spinal system which is contained in the cavity of the skull. It is divided into several parts, named the medulla oblongata, pons Varolii, cerebellum, and cerebrum. In these parts the grey or vesicular nervous matter is found partly on the surface of the brain, forming the convolutions of the cerebrum, and partly in the laminae of the cerebellum. Again, grey matter is found in the interior of the brain, collected into large and distinct masses or ganglionic bodies, such as the corpus striatum, optic thalamus, and corpora quadrigemina. Finally, grey matter is found intermingled intimately with the white, but without definite arrangement, as in the corpora dentata of the medulla and cerebellum, or the grey matter in the pons Varolii and the floor of the fourth ventricle. The white matter of the brain is divisible into three distinct classes of fibres. These are, in the first place, the nerves which arise in the grey matter and pass out through the cranial foramina. Next, the fibres which connect the brain with the spinal cord ; that is to say, those which are usually traced upwards from the columns of the spinal cord, through the medulla oblongata into the encephalon, chiefly by means of the anterior pyramids, fasciculi teretes, and restiform bodies, passing through the pons Varolii and crura cerebri to expand into the corpora striata, optic thalamus, and convolutions {corona radiata), and by means of the restiform bodies into the cerebellum. The other class of white fibres in the brain are com- missural, some of the commissures serving to connect different parts of the same hemisphere together (as the fornix, processus e cerebello ad testes, &c.), or even different parts of the same section or organ, as the arciform fibres of the medulla. Most of these commissures are longitudinal; while others, as the corpus callosum and the transverse fibres of the pons Varolii, are transverse, serving to connect opposite hemispheres together, and thus probably securing the single action of a double organ. The manner in which the grey and white matter are intermingled in the brain