915 THE SMALL INTESTINE left cms of the Diaphragm, and is termed the musculus sicspensorius duodeni, from possessing, according to Treitz, plain muscular fibres, mixed with the fibrous tissue of which it is principally made up. Vessels and Nerves,—The arteries supplying the duodenum are the pyloric and pancreatico-duodenal branches of the hepatic, and the inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric. The veins terminate in the splenic and superior mesenteric. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus. The jejunum {jejimus, empty), so called from being usually found empty after death, includes the upper two-fifths of the small intestine below the duodenum. It commences at the duodenum on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and terminates in the ileum; its convolutions being chiefly confined to the umbilical and left iliac regions. The jejunum is wider, its coats thicker, more vascular, and of a deeper colour than those of the ileum ; but there is no character- istic mark to distinguish the termination of the one and the commencement of the other. The ileum (elXelv, to twist), so called from its numerous coils or convolutions, includes the remaining three-fifths of the small intestine. It occupies chiefly the umbilical, hypogastric, right iliac, and occasionally the pelvic regions, and termi- nates in the right iliac fossa by opening into the inner side of the commencement of the large intestine. The ileum is narrower, its coats thinner and less vascular than those of the jejunum ; a given length of it weighing less than the same length of the jejunum. Meckel's diverticulum.—Occasionally there may be found connected with the lower part of the ileum, from one to three feet from its termination, a blind diverticulum or tube, varying in length. It is attached to and communicates with the free margin of the bowel by one extremity, and by the other is unattached or may be connected with the abdominal wall or some other portion of the intestine by a fibrous band. This is Meckel's diverticulum, and represents the remains of the vitelline duct, or duct of communication between the umbilical vesicle and the alimentary canal (see page 77). Structure.—The wall of the small intestine is composed of four coats—serous muscular, areolar, and mucous. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum. The first or ascending portion of the duodenum is almost completely surrounded by that membrane ; the second or descending portion is covered by it only in front ; and the third or transverse portion lies behind the descending layer of the transverse meso-colon, which passes over it, without being closely incorporated with the other coats of this part of the intestine. The remaining portion of the small intestine is sur- rounded by the peritoneum, excepting along its attached or mesenteric border ; here a space is left for the vessels and nerves to pass to the gut. The muscidar coat consists of two layers of fibres, an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular layer. The longitudinal fibres are thinly scattered over the surface of the intestine, and are more distinct along its free border. The circular fibres form a thick, uniform layer ; they surround the cylinder of the intestine in the greater part of its circumference, but do not form complete rings. The muscular coat is thicker at the upper than at the lower part of the small intestine. The areolar or submucous coat connects together the mucous and muscular layers. It consists of loose, filamentous areolar tissue, which forms a nidus for the subdivision of the nutrient vessels, previous to their distribution to the mucous surface. The mucous membrane is thick and highly vascular at the upper part of the small intestine, but somewhat paler and thinner below. It consists of the following- structures : next the areolar or submucous coat is a layer of unstriped muscular fibres, the muscularis mucosce ; internal to this is a quantity of retiform tissue, enclosing in its- meshes lymph-corpuscles, and in which the blood-vessels and nerves ramify. Lastly, a basement membrane, supporting a single layer of epithelial 3 N 2