CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE FCETUS (From Beaunis and Bouchard) First Week.—During this period the ovmn is in the Fallopian tube. Having been fertilised in the upper part of the tube, it slowly passes down, undergoing segmenta- tion, and reaches the uterus probably about the 3nd of the first week. During this time it does not undergo much increase in size. Second Week.—The ovum rapidly increases in size and becomes embedded in the decidua, so that it is completely enclosed in the decidua reflexa by the end of this period. An ovum believed to be of the thirteenth day after conception is described by Reichert. There was no appearance of any embryonic structure. The equatorial margins of the ovum were beset with villi, but the surface in contact with the uterine wall and the one opposite to it were bare. In another ovum, described by His, believed to be of about the fourteenth day, there was a distinct indication of an embryo. There was a medullary groove bounded by folds. In front of this a slightly prominent ridge, the rudimentary heart. The amnion was formed and the emioryo was attached by a stalk, the allantois, to the inner surface of the chorion. It may be said, therefore, that these parts, the amnion and the allantois, and the first rudiments of the embryo, the medullary groove and the heart, are formed at the end of the second week. Third Week.—By the end of the third week the flexures of the embryo have taken place, so that it is strongly curved. The protovertebral discs, which begin to be formed early in the third week, present their full complement. In the nervous system the primary divisions of the brain are visible, and the primitive ocular and auditory vesicles are already formed. The primary circulation is established. The alimentary canal presents a straight tube communicating with the yolk-sac. The pharyngeal ; arches are formed. The limbs have appeared as short buds. The Wolffian bodies 1 are visible. Fourth Week.—The umbilical vesicle has attained its full development. The caudal j extremity projects. The upper and the lower limbs and the cloacal aperture appear. I The heart separates into a right and left heart. The special ganglia and anterior I roots of the spinal nerves, the olfactory fossse, the lungs and the pancreas can be t made out. Fifth Week.—The allantois is vascular in its whole extent. The first traces of the hands j and feet can be seen. The primitive aorta divides into aorta and pulmonary artery. The duct of Miiller and genital gland are visible. The ossification of the clavicle and the lower jaw commences. The cartilage of Meckel occupies the first post-oral 1 arch. Sixth Week.—The activity of the umbilical vesicle ceases. The pharyngeal clefts disappear. The vertebral column, primitive cranium, and ribs assume the cartilaginous condition. The posterior roots of the nerves, the membranes of the nervous centres, the bladder, kidney, tongue, larynx, thyroid body, the germs of teeth, and the genital tubercle and folds are apparent. seventh Week.—The muscles begin to be perceptible. The points of ossification of the ribs, scapula, shaft of humerus, femur, tibia, palate, and upper jaw appear. ^ighth Week.—The distinction of arm and forearm, and of thigh and leg, is apparent, as well as the interdigital clefts. The capsule of the lens and pupillary membrane, the interventricular and commencement of the interauricular septum, the salivary glands, the spleen and suprarenal capsules are distinguishable. The larynx begins to become cartilaginous. All the vertebral bodies are cartilaginous. The points of ossification