THE SKELETON i68 long, narrow, and serrated, articulates with the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. Of the four borders, the antero-superior or orbital is smooth, arched, and forms a considerable part of the circumference of the orbit. The antero-inferior or maxillary border is rough, and bevelled at the expense of its inner table, to articulate with the superior maxillary bone ; affording attachment by its margin to the Levator labii superioris proprius, just at its point of junction with the superior maxillary. The postero-siiperior or temi^oral border, curved like an italic letter /, is continuous above with the commencement of the temporal ridge ; below, with the upper border of the zygomatic arch : it affords attachment to the temporal fascia. The postero-inferior or zygomatic border is continuous with the lower border of the zygomatic arch, affording attachment by its rough edge to the Masseter muscle. Development.—The malar bone ossifies generally from two, but occasionally from three, centres. One, which forms the chief part of the bone, appears about the seventh week, near the orbital margin. The second appears somewhat later, along the lower margin. The third, when it exists, is found in the hinder border. The bone is sometimes, after birth, seen to be divided, by a horizontal suture, into an upper and larger division, and a lower and smaller. This divided condition is probably due to the persistent separation of the two centres of ossification. In some quadrumana the malar bone consists of two parts, an orbital and a malar, which are ossified by separate centres. Articulations.—With four bones : three of the cranium, frontal, sphenoid, and temporal; and one of the face, the superior maxillary. Attachment of Muscles.—To five: the Levator labii superioris proprius, Zygomaticus major and minor, Masseter, and Temporal. The Palate Bone The Palate Bones (palatum, the palate) are situated at the back part of the nasal fossae: they are wedged in between the superior maxillary bones and the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid. Each bone assists in the formation of three cavities: the floor and outer wall of the nose, the roof of the mouth, and the floor of the orbit; and enters into the formation of two fossae : the spheno-maxillary and pterygoid ; and one fissure, the spheno-maxillary. In form the palate-bone some- what resembles the letter L, and may be divided into an inferior or horizontal plate and a superior or vertical plate. The Horizontal Plate is thick, of a quadrilateral form, and presents two surfaces and four borders. The superior surface, concave from side to side, forms the back part of the floor of the nostril. The inferior surface, slightly concave and rough, forms the back part of the hard palate. At its posterior part may be seen a transverse ridge, more or less marked, for the attachment of part of the aponeurosis of the Tensor palati muscle. At the outer extremity of this ridge is a deep groove converted into a canal by its articulation with the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and forming the posterior palatine canal. Near this groove, the orifices of one or two small canals, accessory posterior palatine, may be seen. The anterior border is serrated, bevelled at the expense of its inferior surface, and articulates with the palate process of the superior maxillary bone. The posterior hoY([ev is concave, free, and serves for the attachment of the soft palate. Its inner extremity is sharp and pointed and, when united with the opposite bone, forms a projecting process, the posterior nasal spine, for the attach- ment of the Azygos uvulae. The external border is united with the lower part of the perpendicular plate almost at right angles. The internal border the thickest, is serrated for articulation with its fellow of the opposite side; its superior edge is raised into a ridge, which, united with the opposite bone, forms a crest in which the vomer is received. The Vertical Plate (fig. i6i) is thin, of an oblong form, and directed upwards