COMMON CAROTID 529 the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoicl. This part of the artery is crossed obliquely, from within outwards, by the sterno-mastoid artery ; it is crossed also by one, or sometimes two superior thyroid veins, which terminate in the internal jugular; and descending on its sheath in front is seen the descendens hypoglossi nerve, this filament being joined by one or two branches from the cervical nerves, which cross the vessel from without inwards. Sometimes the descendens hypoglossi is con- tained within the sheath. The middle thyroid vein crosses the artery about its middle, and the anterior jugular vein below. Behind, the artery lies in front of the cervical portion of the spine, resting first on the Longus colli muscle, then on the Rectus capitis anticus major, from which it is separated by the sympathetic nerve. The recurrent laryngeal nerve and inferior thyroid artery cross behind the vessel at its lower part. Internally, it is in relation with the trachea and thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid artery and recurrent laryngeal nerve being interposed : higher up, with the larynx and pharynx. On its outer side are placed the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve. At the lower part of the neck, the internal jugular vein on the right side diverges from the artery, but on the left side it approaches it, and often crosses its lower part. This is an important fact to bear in mind during the performance of any operation on the lower part of the left common carotid artery. Plan of the Relations of the Common Carotid Artery Integument, and superficial fascia. Deep cervical fascia. Platysma. Sterno-mastoid. Sterno-hyoid. Sterno-thyroid. Externally. Internal jugular vein. Pneumogastric nerve. In front. Omo-hyoid. Descendens and Commnnicans hypoglossi Sterno-mastoid artery. [nerves. Superior and middle thyroid veins. Anterior jugular vein. Internally. Trachea. Thyroid gland. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. Inferior thyroid artery. Larynx. Pharynx. Behind. Longus colli. Rectus capitis anticus major. Sympathetic nerve. Inferior thyroid artery. ReciUTent laryngeal nerve. Peculiarities as to Origin.—The right cofiunon carotid may arise above or below its usual point, the upper border of the sterno-clavicular articulation. This variation occurs in one out of about eight cases and a half, and the origin is more frequently above than below the usual point: or the artery may arise as a separate branch from the arch of the aorta, or in conjunction with the left carotid. The left common carotid varies more frequently in its origin than the right. In the majority of abnormal cases it arises with the innominate artery, or, if the innominate artery is absent, the two carotids arise usually by a single trunk. The left carotid is occasionally the first branch given off from the arch of the aorta. It rarely joins with the left subclavian, except in cases of transposition of the arch. Pecu liarities as to Point of Division.—The most important peculiarities of this vessel, in a surgical point of view, relate to its place of division in the neck. In the majority of abnormal cases, this occurs higher than usual, the artery dividing into two branches opposite the hyoid bone, or even higher; more rarely, it occurs below its usual place opposite the middle of the larynx, or the lower border of the cricoid cartilage; and one case is related by Morgagni, where the common carotid, only an inch and a half in length, divided at the root of the neck. Very rarely, the common carotid ascends in the neck without any subdivision, the internal carotid being wanting; and in a few cases the common carotid has been found to be absent, the external and mternal carotids arising directly from the arch of the aorta. This peculiarity existed on both sides in some instances, on one side in others. Occasional Branches.—The common carotid usually gives off no branch previous to its bifurcation; but it occasionally gives origin to the superior thyroid, or its laryngeal branch, the inferior thyroid, or, more rarely, the vertebral artery. M M