TEMPOEO-MAXILLARY The Odontoid or Check Ligaments {alar ligaments) are strong, rounded, fibrous cords, which arise one on either side of the upper part of the odontoid process, and, passing obliquely upwards and outwards, are inserted into the rough depres sions on the inner side of the condyles of the occipital bone. In the triangular interval left between these ligaments and the margin of the foramen magnum, a strong fibro-cartilaginous cord {ligamentum suspensorium) may be seen, w^hich passes almost perpendicularly from the apex of the odontoid process to the anterior margin of the foramen, being intimately blended with the deep portion of the anterior occipito-atloid ligament, and upper fasciculus of the transverse ligament of the atlas. Actions.—The odontoid ligaments serve to limit the extent to which rotation of the cranium may be carried ; hence they have received the name of check ligaments. Fig. 231.—Occipito-axoid and atlo-axoid ligaments. Posterior view, obtained by removing the arches of the vertebrae and the posterior part of the skall. In addition to these ligaments which connect the atlas and axis to the skull, the ligament am nuchge must be regarded as one of the ligaments by which the spine is connected with the cranium. It is described on a subsequent page. Surgical Anatomy.—The ligaments which unite the component parts of the vertebras together are so strong, and these bones are so interlocked by the arrangement of their articulating processes, that dislocation is very uncommon, and, indeed, unless accompanied by fracture, rarely occurs, except in the upper part of the neck. Dislocation of the occiput from the atlas has only been recorded in one or two cases; but dislocation of the atlas from the axis, with rupture of the transverse ligament, is much more common : it is the mode in which death is produced in many cases of execution by hanging. In the lower part of the neck—that is, below the third cervical vertebra—dislocation unattended by fracture occasionally takes place. V. Tempoeo-maxillaky Articulation This is a double or bilateral condyloid joint; the parts entering into its formation on each side are, above, the anterior part of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone and the eminentia articularis; and, below, the condyle of the lower jaw. The ligaments are the following : —