MALE OEGANS OF GENEKATION joiS. operation for stricture; he is enabled also by the same means to direct the point of a catheter, when its introduction is attended with difficulty either from injury or disease of the membranous or prostatic portions of the m^ethra. When the finger is introduced into the bowel, the surgeon may, in some cases, especially in boys, learn the position, as well as the size and weight, of a calculus in the bladder; and in the operation for its removal, if, as is not unfrequently the case, it should be lodged behind an enlarged prostate, it ma^' be displaced fi'om its position by pressing upwards the base of the bladder from the rectum. The prostate gland is occasionally the seat of suppuration, either due to injury, gonorrhoea, or tuberculous disease. The gland being enveloped in a dense unyielding capsule determines the course of the abscess and also explains the great pain which is present in the acute form of the disease. The abscess most frequently bursts into the urethra, the direction in which there is least resistance, but may occasionally burst into the rectum, or more rarely in the perinseum. In advanced life the prostate becomes considerably enlarged and projects into the bladder so as to impede the passage of the urine. According to Dr. Messer's researches, conducted at Greenwich Hospital, it would seem that such obstruction exists in 20 per cent, of all men over sixty years of age. In some cases the enlargement affects principally the lateral lobes, which may undergo considerable enlargement without causing much inconvenience. In other cases it would seem that the middle lobe enlarges most, and even a small enlargement of this lobe may act injuriously^, by forming a sort of valve over the urethral orifice, preventing the passage of the urine, and blocking more completely the orifice the more the patient strains. In consequence of the enlargement of the x^rostate, a pouch is formed at the base of the bladder behind the projection, in which water collects, and cannot be entirely expelled. It becomes decomposed and ammoniacal, and leads to cystitis. For this condition 'prostatectomy' is sometimes done. The bladder is opened by an incision above the symphysis pubis, the mucous membrane incised, and the enlarged and projecting middle lobe enucleated. Cowpee's Glands Cowper's Glands are tw^o small rounded and somewhat lobulated bodies, of a yellow colom% about the size of peas, placed beneath the fore part of the membranous portion of the urethra, between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia. They lie close behind the bulb, and are enclosed by the transverse fibres of the Compressor urethraB muscle. Their existence is said to be constant : they gradually diminish in size as age advances. Structure.—Each gland consists of several lobules, held together by a fibrous investment. Each lobule consists of a number of acini, lined by columnar epithelial cells, opening into one duct, which, joining with the ducts of other lobules outside the gland, form a single excretory duct. The excretory duct of each gland, nearly an inch in length, passes obliquely forwards beneath the mucous membrane, and opens by'a minute orifice on the floor of the bulbous portion of the urethra. Their existence is said to be constant ; they gradually diminish in size as age advances. The Penis The Penis is the organ of copulation. It consists of a root, body, and extremity or glans penis. The root is firmly connected to the rami of the os pubis and ischium by two strong tapering fibrous processes, the crura ; and to the front of the symphysis pubis by the suspensory ligament, a strong band of fibrous tissue which passes downwards from the front of the symphysis pubis to the upper surface of the root of the penis, where it blends with the fascial sheath of the organ. The extremity, or glans penis, presents the form of an obtuse cone, flattened from above downwards. At its summit is a vertical fissure, the orifice of the urethra {^neattis iirinarius). The base of the glans forms a rounded projecting border, the corona glandis ; and behind the corona is a deep constriction, the cervix. Upon both of these parts, numerous small sebaceous glands are found, the glandules, Tysonii odorifercd. They secrete a sebaceous matter of very peculiar odour, which probably contains caseine, and becomes easily decomposed. The body of the penis is the part between the root and extremity. In the flaccid condition of the organ it is cylindrical, but when erect has a triangular prismatic form wdth rounded angles, the broadest side being turned upwards, and