TENTH. PNEUMOGASTRIC 765 internal carotid, where it divides into two branches, the external and internal laryngeal. The external laryngeal branch, the smaller, descends by the side of the larynx, beneath the Sterno-thyroid, to supply the Crico-thyroid muscle. It gives branches to the pharyngeal plexus and the Inferior constrictor, and communicates with the superior cardiac nerve, behind the common carotid. The internal laryngeal branch descends to the opening in the thyro-hyoid membrane, through which it passes with the superior laryngeal artery, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. A small branch communicates with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The branches to the mucous membrane are distributed, some in front to the epiglottis, the base of the tongue, and the epiglottidean glands ; while others pass backwards, in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, to supply the mucous membrane surrounding the superior orifice of the larynx, as well as the membrane which lines the cavity of the larynx as low down as the vocal cord. The filament which joins with the recurrent laryngeal descends beneath the mucous membrane on the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage, where the two nerves become united. The inferior or recurrent laryngeal, so called from its reflected course, is the motor nerve of the larynx. It arises on the right side, in front of the subclavian artery; winds from before backwards round that vessel, and ascends obliquely to the side of the trachea, behind the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries. On the left side, it arises in front of the arch of the aorta, and winds from before backwards round the aorta at the point where the remains of the ductus arteriosus are connected with it, and then ascends to the side of the trachea. The nerves on both sides ascend in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, and, passing under the lower border of the Inferior constrictor muscle, enter the larynx behind the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage with the cricoid, being distributed to all the muscles of the larynx, excepting the Crico-thyroid. It communicates with the superior laryngeal nerve. The recurrent laryngeal, as it winds round the subclavian artery and aorta, gives off several cardiac filaments, which unite with the cardiac branches from the pnfeumogastric and sympathetic. As it ascends in the neck it gives off oesophageal branches, more numerous on the left than on the right side, which supply the mucous membrane and muscular coat of the oesophagus ; tracheal branches to the mucous membrane and muscular fibres of the trachea; and some pharyngeal filaments to the Inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The cervical cardiac branches, two or three in number, arise from the pneumo- gastric, at the upper and lower part of the neck. The superior branches are small, and communicate with the cardiac branches of the sympathetic. They can be traced to the great or deep cardiac plexus. The inferior branches, one on each side, arise at the lower part of the neck, just above the first rib. On the right side, this branch passes in front or by the side of the arteria innominata, and communicates with one of the cardiac nerves proceeding to the great or deep cardiac plexus. On the left side, it passes in front of the arch of the aorta, and joins the superficial cardiac plexus. The thoracic cardiac branches, on the right side, arise from the trunk of the pneumogastric, as it lies by the side of the trachea, and from its recurrent laryngeal branch ; but on the left side from the recurrent nerve only ; passing inwards, they terminate in the deep cardiac plexus. The anterior pulmonary branches, two or three in number, and of small size, are distributed on the anterior aspect of the root of the lungs. They join with filaments from the sympathetic, and form the anterior pulmonary plexus. The posterior pulmonary branches, more numerous and larger than the anterior, are distributed on the posterior aspect of the root of the lung : they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth (sometimes also first and second) thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, and form the posterior pulmojiary plexus. Branches