414 MUSCLES AND FASCIA The Spinalis dorsi connects the spinous processes of the upper kimbar and the dorsal vertebrae together by a series of muscular and tendinous slips, which are intimately blended with the Longissimus dorsi. It is situated at the inner side of the Longissimus dorsi, arising, by three or four tendons, from the spinous processes of the first two lumbar and the last two dorsal vertebrse : these, uniting, form a small muscle, which is inserted, by separate tendons, into the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae, the number varying from four to eight. It is intimately united with the Semispinalis dorsi, which lies beneath it. The Spinalis colli is a small muscle, connecting together the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae, and analogous to the Spinalis dorsi in the dorsal region. It varies considerably in its size, and in its extent of attachment to the vertebrae, not only in different bodies, but on the two sides of the same body. It usually arises by fleshy or tendinous slips, varying from tAVO to four in number, from the spinous processes of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebrae, and occasionally from the first and second dorsal, and is inserted into the spinous process of the axis, and occasionally into the spinous processes of the two vertebrae below it. This muscle was found absent in five cases out of twenty-four. The Complexus is a broad thick muscle, situated at the upper and back part of the neck, beneath the Splenius, and internal to the Transversalis colli and Trachelo- mastoid. It arises, by a series of tendons, about seven in number, from the tips of the transverse processes of the upper three dorsal and seventh cervical vertebrae, and from the articular processes of the three* cervical above this. The tendons, uniting, form a broad muscle, which passes obliquely upwards and inwards, and is inserted into the innermost depression between the two curved lines of the occipital bone. This muscle, about its middle, is traversed by a transverse tendinous intersection. The Biventer cervicis is a small fasciculus, situated on the inner side of the preceding, and in the majority of cases blended with it; it has received its name from having a tendon intervening between two fleshy bellies. It is sometimes described as a separate muscle, arising, by from two to four tendinous slips, from the transverse processes of as many of the upper dorsal vertebrae, and inserted, on the inner side of the Complexus, into the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Relations.—The Complexus is covered by the Splenius and the Trapezius. It lies on the Kectus capitis posticus major and minor, the ObHquus capitis superior and inferior, and on the Semispinalis colli, from which it is separated by the profunda cervicis artery, the princeps cervicis artery, and branches of the posterior cervical plexus of nerves. The Biventer cervicis is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the ligamentum nuchae. Nerves.—The Erector spin^ and its subdivisions in the dorsal region are supplied by the external branches of the posterior divisions of the lumbar and dorsal nerves ; while its subdivisions in the cervical region, the Transversalis colli and Trachelo-mastoid, are supplied by the external branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical nerves ; the Complexus, by the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical nerves, the suboccipital and great occipital. The Spinahs colli is supphed by the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical nerves ; and the Spinalis dorsi, by the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the dorsal nerves. Fifth Layer Semispinalis dorsi. Extensor coccygis. Semispinalis colli. Intertransversales. Multifidus spinae. Eectus capitis posticus major. Rotatores spinge. Rectus capitis posticus minor. Supraspinales. Obhquus capitis superior. Interspinals. Obliquus capitis inferior.