HIP-JOINT 341 joint—the shoulder—in the much more complete mechanical arrangements for its security and for the limitation of its movements. In the shoulder, as we have seen, the head of the humerus is not adapted at all in shape to the glenoid cavity, and is hardly restrained in any of its ordinary movements by the capsular ligament. In the hip-joint, on the contrary, the head of the femur is closely fitted to the aceta- bulum for a distance extending over nearly half a sphere, and at the margin of the bony cup it is still more closely embraced by the ligamentous ring of the cotyloid ligament, so that the head of the femur is held in its place by that ligament even when the fibres of the capsule have been quite divided (Humphry). The anterior portion of the capsule, described as the ilio-femoral or accessory ligament, is the strongest of all the ligaments in the body, and is put on the stretch by any attempt to "extend the femur beyond a straight line with the trunk. That is to say, this ligament is the chief agent in maintaining the erect position without muscular fatigue, the action of the extensor muscles of the buttock being balanced by the tension of the ilio-femoral and capsular ligaments. The security of the joint may be also provided for by the two bones being directly united through the ligamentum teres ; but it is doubtful whether this so-called ligament can have much influence upon the mechanism of the joint. Flexion of the hip-joint is arrested by the soft parts of the thigh and abdomen being brought into contact; * extension by the tension of the ilio-femoral ligament and front of the capsule ; adduction by the thighs coming into contact; adduction with flexion by the outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament, the ilio-trochanteric ligament, the outer part of the capsular ligament; abduction by the inner band of the ilio-femoral ligament and the pubo-femoral band ; rotation outwards by the outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament; and rotation inwards by the ischio-capsular ligament and the hinder part of the capsule. The muscles which flex the femur on the pelvis are, the Psoas, Iliacus, Kectus, Sartorius, Pectineus, Adductor longus and brevis, and the anterior fibres of the Gluteus medius and minimus. Extension is mainly performed by the Gluteus maximus, assisted by the hamstring muscles. The thigh is adducted by the Adductor magnus, longus and brevis, the Pectineus, and Gracilis, and abducted, by the Gluteus maximus, medius, and minimus. The muscles which rotate the thigh inward are the anterior fibres of the Gluteus medius, the Gluteus minimus, and the Tensor vaginae femoris; while those which rotate it outioards are the posterior fibres of the Gluteus melius, the Pyriformis, Obturator externus and internus, Gemellus superior and inferior, Quadratus femoris, Psoas, Iliacus, Gluteus maximus, the three Adductors, the Pectineus, and the Sartorius. Surface Form.—A line drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the most prominent part of the tuberosity of the ischium (Nelaton's line) runs through the centre of the acetabulum, and would, therefore, indicate the level of the hip-joint ; or, in other words, the upper border of the great trochanter, which lies on Nelaton's line, is on a level with the centre of the hip-joint. Surgical Anatoiny.—In dislocation of the hip, ' the head of the thigh-bone may rest at any point around its socket' (Bryant); but whatever position the head ultimately assumes, the primary displacement is generally downwards and inwards, the capsule giving way at its weakest—that is, its lower and inner—part. The situation that the head of the bone subsequently assumes is determined by the degree of flexion or extension, and of outward or inward rotation of the thigh at the moment of luxation, influenced, no doubt, by the ilio-femoral ligament, which is not easily ruptured. When, for instance, the head is forced backwards, this ligament forms a fixed axis, round which the head of the bone rotates, and is thus driven on to the dorsum of the ilium. The ilio-femoral ligament also influences the position of the thigh in the various dislocations : in the dislocations backwards it is tense, and produces inversion of the limb ; in the dislocation on to the pubes, it is relaxed, and therefore allows the external rotators to evert the thigh ; while in the thyroid disloca- tion it is tense, and produces flexion. The muscles inserted into the upper part of the femur, with the exception of the Obturator internus, have yerj little direct influence in determining the position of the bone. But Bigelow has endeavoured to show that the * The hip-joint cannot be completely flexed, in most persons, without at the same time flexing the knee, on account of the shortness of the hamstring muscles.—-Cleland, Journ. of Anat. and PJiys. No. I. Old Series, p. 87.