AETEEIES 56o pass vertically downwards in front of the artery. The external jugular vein crosses it at its inner side, and receives the suprascapular and transverse cervical veins, which occasionally form a plexus in front of it. The subclavian vein is below the artery, lying close behind the clavicle. Behind, it lies on the Middle Scalenus muscle. Above it, and to its outer side, is the brachial plexus, and Omo-hyoid muscle. Beloiv, it rests on the upper surface of the first rib. Peculiarities.—The subclavian arteries vary in theh origin, their course, and the height to which they rise in the neck. TJie origin of the right subclavian from the innominate takes place, in some cases, above the sterno-clavicular articulation; and occasionally, but less frequently, in the cavity of the thorax, below that joint. Or the artery may arise as a separate trunk from the arch of the aorta. In such cases it may be either the first, second, third, or even the last branch derived from that vessel; in the majority of cases, it is the first or last, rarely the second or third. When it is the first branch, it occupies the ordinary position of the innominate artery ; when the second or third, it gains its usual position by passing behind the right carotid ; and when the last branch, it arises from the left extremity of the arch, at its upper or back part, and passes obliquely towards the right side, usually behind the oesophagus and right carotid, sometimes between the oesophagus and trachea, to the upper border of the first rib, whence it follows its ordinary course. In very rare instances, this vessel arises from the thoracic aorta, as low down as the fourth dorsal vertebra. Occa- sionally, it perforates the anterior Scalenus; more rarely it passes in front of that muscle. Sometimes the subclavian vein passes with the artery behind the Scalenus. The artery sometimes ascends as high as an inch and a half above the clavicle, or any interme- diate point between this and the upper border of the bone, the right subclavian usually ascending higher than the left. The left subclavian is occasionally joined at its origin with the left carotid. Surface Marhing.— The course of the subclavian artery in the neck may be mapped out, by describing a curve, with its convexity upwards at the base of the posterior triangle. The inner end of this curve corresponds to the sterno-clavicular joint, the outer end to the centre of the lower border of the clavicle. The cmwe is to be drawn with such an amount of convexity that its mid-point reaches half an inch above the upper border of the clavicle. The left subclavian artery is more deeply placed than the right in the first part of its course, and, as a rule, does not reach quite as high a level in the neck. It should be borne in mind that the posterior border of the Sterno mastoid muscle corresponds to the outer border of the Scalenus anticus, so that the third portion of the artery, that part most accessible for operation, lies immediately external to the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid. Surgical Anatomy.—The relations of the subclavian arteries of the two sides having been examined, the student should direct his attention to a consideration of the best posi- tion in which compression of the vessel may be effected, or in what situation a ligature may be best applied in cases of aneurism or wound. Comjjressiofi of the subclavian artery is required in cases of operations about the shoulder, in the axilla, or at the upper part of the arm; and the student will observe that there is only one situation in which it can be effectually applied, viz. where the artery passes across the outer surface of the first rib. In order to compress the vessel in this situation, the shoulder should be depressed, and the surgeon grasping the side of the neck should press with his thumb in the angle formed by the posterior border of the Sterno- mastoid with the upper border of the clavicle, downwards, backwards, and inwards against the rib; if from any cause the shoulder cannot be sufficiently depressed, pressure may be made from before backwards, so as to compress the artery against the Middle scalenus and transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. In appropriate cases, a preliminary incision may be made through the cervical fascia, and the finger may be pressed down directly upon the artery. Ligature of the subclavian artery may be required in cases of wounds, or of aneurism in the axilla, or in cases of aneurism on the cardiac side of the point of ligature ; and the third part of the artery is that which is most favourable for an operation, on account of its being comparatively superficial, and most remote from the origin of the large branches. In those cases where the clavicle is not displaced, this operation may be performed with comparative facility; but where the clavicle is pushed up by a large aneraismal tumour in the axilla, the artery is placed at a great depth from the surface, which materially increases the difficulty of the operation. Under these circumstances, it becomes a matter of importance to consider the height to Avhich this vessel reaches above the bone. In ordinary cases, its arch is about half an inch above the clavicle, occasionally as high as an inch and a half, and sometimes so low as to be on a level with its upper border. If the clavicle is displaced, these variations will necessarily make the operation more or less diflicult, according as the vessel is more or less accessible. The chief points in the operation of tying the third portion of the subclavian artery are as follows : the patient being placed on a table in the horizontal position, with the head drawn over to the opposite side, and the shoulder depressed as much as possible, the