348 ARTICULATIONS the Semimembranosus, the popUteal vessels, and the internal popliteal nerve, Popliteus, Plantaris, and inner and outer heads of the Gastrocnemius, some lymphatic glands, and fat. The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the anastomotica magna branch of the femoral, articular branches of the popliteal, anterior and posterior recurrent branches of the anterior tibial, and descending branch from the external circumflex of the Profunda. The Nerves are derived from the obturator, anterior crural, and external and internal popliteal. Actions.—The knee-joint permits of movements of flexion and extension, and, in certain positions, of slight rotation inwards and outwards. The movement of flexion and extension does not, however, take place in a simple, hinge-like manner, as in other joints, but is a complicated movement, consisting'of a certain amount of gliding and rotation; so that the same part of one articular surface is not always applied to the same part of the other articular surface, and the axis of motion is not a fixed one. If the joint is examined while in a condition of extreme flexion, the posterior part of the articular surfaces Fig". 262. View of the ^^le tibia will be found to be in contact with the posterior posterior surface of the rounded extremities of the condyles of the femur ; and patella. Showing dia- if a simple hinge-like movement were to take place, the grammatically the areas ^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ revolving movement of the tibia of contact with the i^ i. • xu 1 1 ^ f i i femur in different posi- occurs, would be m the back part 01 the condyle. It tions of the knee. the leg is now brought forwards into a position of semi- flexion, the upper surface of the tibia will be seen to glide over the condyles of the femur, so that the middle part of the articular facets are in contact, and the axis of rotation must therefore have shifted forwards to nearer the centre of the condyles. If the leg is now brought into the extended position, a still further gliding takes place and a further shifting forwards of the axis of rotation. This is not, however, a simple movement, but is accompanied by a certain amount of rotation outwards round a vertical axis drawn through the centre of the head of the tibia. This rotation is due to the greater length of the internal condyle and to the fact that the anterior portion of its articular surface is inclined obliquely outwards. In consequence of this, it will be seen that towards the close of the movement of extension, that is to say, just before complete extension is effected, the tibia glides obliquely upwards and outwards over this oblique surface on the inner condyle, and the leg is therefore necessarily rotated outwards. In flexion of the joint the converse of these move- ments takes place : the tibia glides backwards round the end of the femur, and at the commencement of the movement the tibia is directed downwards and inwards along the oblique curve of the inner condyle, thus causing an inward rotation to the leg. During flexion and extension, the patella moves on the lower end of the femur, but this movement is not a simple gliding one ; for if the articular surface of this bone is examined, it will be found to present on each side of the central vertical ridge two less marked transverse ridges, which divide the surface, except a small portion along the inner border, which is cut off by a slight vertical ridge into six facets (see fig. 262), and therefore does not present a uniform curved surface, as would be the case if a simple gliding movement took place. These six facets—three on each side of the median vertical ridge—correspond to and denote the parts of the bone respectively in contact with the condyles of the femur during flexion, semi-flexion, and extension. In flexion, only the upper facets on the patella are in contact with the condyles of the femur; the lower two-thirds of the bone rests upon the mass of fat which occupies the space between the femur and tibia. In the semi-flexed position of the joint, the middle facets on the patella rest upon