SYMPATHETIC NEKVE 8i4 Carotid Plexus The carotid plexus is situated on the outer side of the internal carotid. Fila- ments from this plexus occasionally form a small gangiiform swelling on the under surface of the artery, Avhich is called the carotid ganglion. The carotid plexus communicates with the Gasserian ganglion, with the sixth nerve, and the spheno- palatine ganglion, and distributes filaments to the wall of the carotid artery, and to the dura mater (Valentin) ; while in the carotid canal it communicates with Jacobson's nerve, the tympanic branch of the giosso-pharyngeal. The communicating branches with the sixth nerve consist of one or two filaments which join that nerve as it lies upon the outer side of the internal carotid. Other filaments are also connected with the Gasserian ganglion. The communication with the spheno-palatine ganglion is effected by a branch, the large deep petrosal, which is given off from the plexus on the outer side of the artery, and which passes through the cartilage filling up the foramen lacerum medium, and joins the great superficial petrosal to form the Vidian nerve. The Vidian nerve then proceeds along the pterygoid or Vidian canal to the spheno- palatine ganglion. The communication with Jacobson's nerve is effected by two branches, one of which is called the small deep petrosal nerve, and the other the long petrosal. Cavernous Plexus The cavernous plexus is situated below, and internal to that part of the internal carotid which is placed by the side of the sella Turcica, in the cavernous sinus, and is formed chiefly by the internal division of the ascending branch from the superior cervical ganglion. It communicates with the third, the fourth, the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth nerves, and with the ophthalmic ganglion, and distributes filaments to the wall of the internal carotid. The branch of communication with the third nerve joins it at its point of division ; the branch to the fourth nerve joins it as it lies on the outer wall of the cavernous sinus; other filaments are connected with the under surface of the trunk of the ophthalmic nerve ; and a second filament of communication joins the sixth nerve. The filament of connection with the ophthalmic ganglion arises from the anterior part of the cavernous plexus ; it accompanies the nasal nerve, or continues forwards as a separate branch. The terminal filaments from the carotid and cavernous plexuses are prolonged along the internal carotid, forming plexuses which entwine round the cerebral and ophthalmic arteries ; along the former vessels they may be traced on to the pia mater; along the latter, into the orbit, where they accompany each of the sub- divisions of the vessel, a separate plexus passing, with the arteria centralis retinae, into the interior of the eyeball. The filaments prolonged on to the anterior communicating artery form a small ganglion, the ganglioji of Bibes* which serves, as mentioned above, to connect the sympathetic nerves of the right and left sides. The inferior or descending branch of the superior cervical ganglion commu- nicates with the middle cervical ganglion. The external branches are numerous, and communicate with the cranial nerves, and with the four upper spinal nerves. Sometimes the branch to the fourth spinal nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper and middle cervical ganglia. The branches of communication with the cranial nerves consist of delicate filaments, which pass from the superior cervical ganglion to the ganglion of the trunk of the pneumogastric, and to the hypoglossal nerve. A separate filament from the cervical ganghon subdivides and joins the petrosal ganghon of the giosso-pharyngeal, and the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric in the jugular foramen. The internal branches are three in number : the pharyngeal, laryngeal, and superior cardiac nerve. The pharyngeal branches pass inwards to the side of the The existence of this ganglion is doubted by some observers.