STRUCTUEE OF THE LIVER 937 to the 2 oVo 0^ i^ch in diameter. They consist of a honeycomb network (Klein) without any cell-wall, and contain one or sometimes two distinct nuclei. In the nucleus is a highly refracting nucleolus with granules. Embedded in the honeycomb network are numerous yellow particles, the colouring matter of the bile, and oil-globules. The cells adhere together by their surfaces so as to form rows, which radiate from the centre to the circumference of the lobules. As stated above, they are the chief agents in the secretion of the bile. (2) The blood-vessels.—The blood in the capillary plexus, around the liver-cells, is brought to the liver principally by the portal vein, but also to a certain extent by the hepatic artery. For the sake of clearness, the distribution of the blood derived from the hepatic artery may be considered first. The ]iej)atic artery, entering the liver at the transverse fissure with the portal vein and hepatic duct, ramifies with these vessels through the portal canals. It gives off vaginal branches, which ramify in the capsule of Glisson, and appear to be destined chiefly for the nutrition of the coats of the large vessels, the ducts, and the investing membranes of the liver. It also gives off capsular branches which reach the surface of the organ, terminating in its fibrous coat, in stellate plexuses. Finally, it gives off interlobular branches which form^a plexus on the outer side of each lobule, to supply its wall and the accompanying bile-ducts. From this, lobular branches enter the lobule and end in the capillary network between the cells. Some anatomists, however, doubt whether it transmits any blood directly to the capillary network. The ported vein (fig. 550) also enters at the transverse fissure and runs through the portal canals, enclosed in Glisson's capsule, dividing into branches in its course, which finally break up into a plexus (the interlobular plexus) in the interlobular spaces between the lobules. In their course these branches receive the vaginal and capsular veins, corresponding to the vaginal and capsular branches of the hepatic artery (fig. 550). Thus it will be seen that all the blood carried to the liver by the portal vein and hepatic artery, except perhaps that derived from the interlobular branches of the hepatic artery, directly or indirectly, finds its way into the inter- lobular plexus. From this plexus the blood is carried into the lobule by fine branches which pierce its wall, and then converge from the circumference to the centre of the lobule, forming a number of longitudinal vessels, which are connected by transverse or horizontal branches (fig. 551). In the interstices of the network of vessels thus formed are situated, as before said, the liver-cells ; and here it is that, the blood being brought into intimate connection with the liver-cells, the bile is