955 HEART—RIGHT VENTRICLE the auriculo-ventricular opening. It returns the blood from the substance of the heart, and is protected by a semicircular fold of the lining membrane of the auricle, the coronary valve. The sinus, before entering the auricle, is considerably dilated —nearly to the size of the end of the little finger. Its wall is partly muscular, and, at its junction with the great coronary vein, is somewhat constricted, and furnished with a valve, consisting of two unequal segments. The foramina Thebesii are numerous minute apertures, the mouths of small veins (vence cordis minimce), which open on various parts of the inner surface of the auricle. They return the blood directly from the muscular substance of the heart. Some of these foramina are minute depressions in the walls of the heart, presenting a closed extremity. The auriculo-ventricular opening is the large oval aperture of communication between the auricle and the ventricle, to be presently described. The Eustachian valve is situated between the anterior margin of the inferior vena cava and the auriculo-ventricular orifice. It is semilunar in form, its convex margin being attached to the wall of the vein ; its concave margin, which is free, terminating in two cornua, of which the left is attached to the anterior edge of the annulus ovalis ; the right being lost on the wall of the auricle. The valve is formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane of the auricle, containing a few muscular fibres. In the foetus this valve is of large size, and serves to direct the blood from the inferior vena cava, through the foramen ovale, into the left auricle. In the adult it is occasionally persistent, and may assist in preventing the reflux of blood into the inferior vena cava; more commonly it is small, and its free margin presents a cribriform or filamentous appearance ; occasionally it is altogether wanting. The coronary valve (valve of Thebesius) is a semicircular fold of the lining membrane of the auricle, protecting the orifice of the coronary sinus. It prevents the regurgitation of blood into the sinus during the contraction of the auricle. This valve is occasionally double. The fossa ovalis is an oval depression, corresponding to the situation of the foramen ovale in the foetus. It is situated at the lower part of the septum auricu- larum, above and to the left of the orifice of the inferior vena cava. The annulus ovalis is the prominent oval margin of the foramen ovale. It is most distinct above, and at the sides ; below, it is deficient. A small slit-like valvular opening is occasionally found, at the upper margin of the fossa ovalis, which leads upwards, beneath the annulus, into the left auricle, and is the remains of the aperture between the two auricles in the foetus. The musculi pectinati are small, prominent muscular columns, which run across the inner surface of the appendix auriculae and adjoining portion of the wall of the sinus. They have received the name pectinati from the fancied resemblance they bear to the teeth of a comb. The Right Ventricle is triangular in form, and extends from the right auricle to near the apex of the heart. Its anterior or upper surface is rounded and convex, and forms the larger part of the front of the heart. Its under surface is flattened, rests upon the Diaphragm, and forms only a small part of the back of the heart. Its posterior wall is formed by the partition between the two ventricles, the septum ventriculorum, the surface of which is convex, and bulges into the cavity of the right ventricle. Its upper and inner angle is prolonged into a conical pouch, the infundibulum, or conus arteriosus, from which the pulmonary artery arises. The walls of the right ventricle are thinner than those of the left, the proportion between them being as i to 3. The wall is thickest at the base, and gradually becomes thinner towards the apex. The cavity, which equals that of the left ventricle, is capable of containing about three fluid ounces.* * Morrant Baker says that, ' taking the mean of various estimates, it may be inferred that each ventricle is able to contain four to six ounces of blood.'—Kirke's Physiology, loth edition, p. 156.