INTERNAL ILIAC 603 vessel within the abdomen is called the hyijogastric artery ; and that external to that cavity, the umbilical artery. At birth, when the placental circulation ceases, the upper portion of the hypogastric artery, extending from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus, contracts, and ultimately dwindles to a solid fibrous cord ; but the lower portion, extending from its origin (in what is now the internal iliac artery) for about an inch and a half to the wall of the bladder, and thence to the summit of that organ, is not totally impervious, though it becomes considerably reduced in size, and serves to convey blood to the bladder, under the name of the superior vesical artery. Peculiarities as regards Length.—In two-thirds of a large number of cases, the length of the internal iliac varied between an inch and an inch and a half; in the remaining third, it was more frequently longer than shorter, the maximmii length being three inches, the minimum half an inch. The lengths of the common and internal iliac arteries bear an inverse proportion to each other, the internal iliac artery being long when the common iliac is short, and vice versa. As regards its Place of Division.—The place of division of the internal iliac varies between the upper margin of the sacrum and the upper border of the sacro-sciatic foramen. The arteries of the two sides in a series of cases often differed in length, but neither seemed constantly to exceed the other. Surgical A7iatoimj.—The application of a ligature to the internal iliac artery may be required in cases of aneurism or haemorrhage affecting one of its branches. The vessel may be secured by making an incision through the abdominal parietes in the iliac region, in a direction and to an extent similar to that for securing the common iliac ; the trans- versalis fascia having been cautiously divided, and the peritoneum pushed inwards from the iliac fossa towards the pelvis, the finger may feel the pulsation of the external iliac at the bottom of the woimd ; and, by tracing this vessel upwards, the internal iliac is arrived at, opposite the sacro-iliac articulation. It should be remembered that the vein lies behind, and on the right side, a little external to the artery, and in close contact with it ; the ureter and peritoneum, which lie in front, mast also be avoided. The degree of facility in appl^dng a ligature to this vessel will mainly depend ux^on its length. It has been seen that, in the great majority of the cases examined, the artery was short, varying from an inch to an inch and a half; in these cases, the artery is deeply seated in the pelvis ; when, on the contrary, the vessel is longer, it is found partly above that cavity. If the artery is very short, as occasionallj^ haj)pens, it would be preferable to apply a ligature to the common iliac, or upon the external and internal iliacs at their origin. Probably a better method of tying the internal iliac artery is by an abdominal section in the median line and reaching the vessel through the peritoneal cavity. This plan has been advocated b}" Dennis, of New York, on the following grounds: (i) It no way increases the danger of the operation; (2) it prevents a series of accidents which have occurred during ligature of the artery by the older methods; (3) it enables the surgeon to ascertain the exact extent of disease in the main arterial trunk, and select his spot for the application of the ligature; and (4) it occupies much less time. Collateral Circulation.—In Professor Owen's dissection of a case in which the internal ihac artery had been tied by Stevens ten years before death, for aneurism of the sciatic artery, the internal iliac was found impervious for about an inch above the point where the liga- ture had been applied ; but the obliteration did not extend to the origin of the external iliac, as the ilio-lumbar artery arose just above this point. Below the point of obliteration, the artery resumed its natural diameter, and continued so for half an inch ; the obturator, lateral sacral, and gluteal arising in succession from the latter portion. The obturator artery was entirely obliterated. The lateral sacral artery was as large as a crow's quill, and had a very free anastomosis with the artery of the opposite side, and with the middle sacral artery. The sciatic artery was entirely obliterated as far as its point of connection with the aneurismal tumour; but, on the distal side of the sac, it was continued down along the back of the thigh nearly as large in size as the femoral, being pervious about an inch below the sac by receiving an anastomosing vessel from the profunda.* The circulation was carried on by the anastomoses of the uterine and ovarian arteries; of the opposite vesical arteries; of the hsemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac with those fi^om the inferior mesenteric ; of the obturator artery, by means of its pubic branch, with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the epigastric and internal circumflex; of the circumflex and perforating branches of the profunda femoris with the sciatic ; of the gluteal with the posterior branches of the sacral arteries ; of the ilio-lumbar with the last lumbar ; of the lateral sacral with the middle sacral; and of the circumflex iliac with the ilio-lumbar and gluteal. * Medico-Chirtirgical Trans., vol. xvi.