684 NERVOUS SYSTEM vesicles which are collected into groups, and small round cells Avhich resemble free nuclei, and are found scattered throughout the whole of the grey matter. In the anterior horn is a constant group, situated at the anterior part of the cornu, and sometimes termed the vesicular colimin of the anterior cornu. It consists of two groups of cells: one mesial, near the anterior column ; the other lateral, near the lateral column. At the base of the posterior horn on its inner side, and joining the grey commissure, is a group of nerve-cells, which give rise to the projection mentioned above as being seen on transverse section in the upper part of the cord, which is called Clarke's posterior vesicular column. At the junction of the anterior and posterior cornu, in the outer portion of the grey matter, is a third group of cells, the tractus inter medio-lateralis. In certain regions of the cord these cells extend in amongst the fibres of the white matter of the lateral column, and give rise to the lateral horn. In addition to these groups a few large scattered cells are found in the posterior horn, extending into the substantia cinerea gelatinosa. THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES Dissection.—To examine the brain with its membranes, the skiiU-cap must be removed. In order to effect this, saw through the external table, the section commencing, in front, about an inch above the margin of the orbit, and extending, behind, to a level with the occipital protuberance. Then break the internal table with the chisel and hammer, to avoid injuring the investing membranes or brain; loosen, and forcibly detach the skull-cap, when the dura mater will be exposed. The adhesion between the bone and the dura mater is very intimate, and much more so in the young subject than in the adult. The membranes of the brain are, the dura mater, arachnoid membrane, and pia mater. Dura Mater The Dura Mater is a thick and dense inelastic fibrous membrane, which lines the interior of the skull. Its outer surface is rough and fibrillated, and adheres closely to the inner surface of the bones, forming their internal periosteum, this adhesion being most marked opposite the sutures and at the base of the skull. Its inner surface is smooth, and lined by a layer of endothelial cells. It sends three processes inwards, into the cavity of the skull, for the support and protection of the different parts of the brain : and is prolonged to the outer surface of the skull, through the various foramina which exist at the base, and thus becomes continuous with the pericranium ; its fibrous layer forms sheaths for the nerves which pass through these apertures. At the base of the skull, it sends a fibrous prolongation into the foramen caecum; it sends a series of tubular prolongations round the filaments of the olfactory nerves as they pass through the cribriform plate, and also round the nasal nerve as it passes through the nasal slit; a prolongation is also continued through the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit, and another is continued into the same cavity through the optic foramen forming a sheath for the optic nerve, which is continued as far as the eyeball. In the posterior fossa it sends a process down the internal auditory meatus, ensheathing the facial and auditory nerves ; another through the jugular foramen, forming a sheath for the structures which pass through this opening, and a third through the anterior condyloid foramen. Around the margin of the foramen magnum it is closely adherent to the bone, and is continuous wdth the dura mater lining the spinal canal. In certain situations, as already mentioned (page 632), the fibrous layers of this membrane separate, to form sinuses for the passage of venous blood. Upon the outer surface of the dura mater, in the situation of the longitudinal sinus, may be seen numerous small whitish bodies, the glandules Pacchioni. Structure.—The dura mater consists of white fibrous and elastic tissues, arranged in flattened laminae, which are divisible into two layers, the fibres of the two layers intersecting each other obliquely. A layer of nucleated endothelial cells,