MUSCLES AND FASCIJ5 464 The Extensor minimi digiti is a slender muscle placed on the inner side of the Extensor communis, with which it is generally connected. It arises from the common tendon by a thin, tendinous slip ; and from the intermuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. Its tendon runs through a separate compartment in the annular ligament behind the inferior radio-ulnar joint, then divides into two as it crosses the hand, one slip being united to the common extensor by a cross-piece at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. Both finally spread into a broad aponeurosis, which blends with the common extensor to the finger, and is inserted into the second and third phalanges. The tendon is situated on the ulnar side of, and somewhat more superficial than, the common extensor. The Extensor carpi ulnaris is the most superficial muscle on the ulnar side of the forearm. It arises from the external condyle of the humerus, by the common tendon ; from the middle third of the posterior surface of the ulna, below the Anconeus, and by an aponeurosis from the posterior border of the ulna in common with the Flexor carpi ulnaris and the Flexor profundus digitorum ; and from the deep fascia of the forearm. This muscle terminates in a tendon, which runs through a groove behind the styloid process of the ulna, passes through a separate compart- ment in the annular ligament, and is inserted into the prominent tubercle on the ulnar side of the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the deep fascia of the forearm. By its deep surface, with the ulna, and the muscles of the deep layer. The Anconeus is a small, triangular muscle, placed behind and below the elbow- joint, and appears to be a continuation of the external portion of the Triceps. It arises by a separate tendon from the back part of the outer condyle of the humerus, and is inserted into the side of the olecranon, and upper fourth of the posterior surface of the shaft of the ulna; its fibres diverge from their origin, the upper ones being directed transversely, the lower obliquely inwards. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with a strong fascia derived from the Triceps. By its deep surface, with the elbow-joint, the orbicular ligament, the ulna, and a small portion of the Supinator brevis. PosTERioE Brachial Eegion (fig. 310) Deep Layer Supinator brevis. Extensor brevis pollicis. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Extensor longus pollicis. Extensor indicis. The Supinator brevis is a broad muscle, of a hollow cylindrical form, curved round the upper third of the radius. It consists of two distinct planes of muscular fibres, between which lies the posterior interosseous nerve. The two planes arise in common : the superficial one by tendinous, and the deeper by muscular fibres . from the external condyle of the humerus ; from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, and the orbicular ligament of the radius; from the ridge on the ulna, which runs obliquely downwards from the posterior extremity of the lesser sigmoid cavity ; from the triangular depression in front of it ; and from a tendinous expansion which covers the surface of the muscle. The superficial fibres surround the upper part of the radius, and are inserted into the outer edge of the bicipital tuberosity and to the oblique line of the radius, as low down as the insertion of the Pronator radii teres. The upper fibres of the deeper plane form a sling-like fasciculus, which encircles the neck of the radius above the tuberosity and is attached to the back part of its inner surface : the greater part of this portion of the muscle is inserted into the posterior and external surface of the shaft, midway between the oblique line and the head of the bone. Between the insertion of the two planes, the posterior interosseous nerve lies on the shaft of the bone. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the superficial Extensor and