NEEVOUS SYSTEM 690 Fig. 412.—Posterior surface of the medulla oblongata. groove, from which the giosso-pharyngeal, pnenmogastric, and spinal accessory nerves arise. It is equal in breadth to the pyramid ; is a little broader above than below, and is about half an inch in length, being separated above from the pons Varolii by a slight depression, in which is sometimes to be seen a band of arched fibres. Numerous white fibres (sujjerficial arciform fibres) are seen winding across the lower half of the pyramid and the olivary body to enter the restiform body. The funiculus of Eolando is a longitudinal prominence, on the outer side of the lateral tract. It begins at the lower end of the medulla by a tapering extremity, and gradually enlarging as it ascends, forms at a level with the lower border of the olivary body a slight prominence, known as the tubercle of Rolando. About half an inch below the pons, it appears to blend with the funiculus cuneatus. In front, it is separated from the lateral tract by a distinct groove, the continuation upwards of the posterolateral groove of the cord ; behind, the separation from the funiculus cuneatus is much less distinct. The funiculus cuneatus is the direct continuation upw^ards of the posterior lateral column of the cord. It is situated between the funiculus of Eolando and the funiculus gracilis ; it enlarges as it ascends, and forms, opposite the lower extremity of the fourth ventricle, a slight eminence or enlargement, the tuberculum cuneatum, which is best marked in chil- dren. About half an inch below the pons it appears to blend with the funiculus of Eolando. The restiform bodies appear on the surface to be the direct continuation up- wards of the funiculus of Eolando and the funiculus cuneatus. But they also receive the arched fibres (arciform), pre- sently to be described, and fibres derived from the lateral column of the cord, or the lateral cerebellar tract. The resti- form bodies are the largest prominences of the medulla, and are placed between the lateral tracts in front and the funi- ^ ^ _ cuius gracilis behind, from both of which ^' ? I they are separated by slight grooves. As ^ they ascend they diverge from each other, assist in forming the lower part of the lateral boundaries of the fourth ventricle, and then enter the ■ corresponding hemisphere of the cerebellum, forming its inferior peduncles. The funiculus gracilis is the direct continuation upwards of the posterior median column of the cord. It is a narrow white cord, placed parallel to and along the side of the posterior median fissure. It is separated from the funiculus cuneatus below and the restiform body above by a slight groove, which is con- tinuous with the groove on the surface of the cord, which marks off the posterior median column. It consists entirely of white fibres, and is the direct continuation of the posterior median column of the cord. At first the funiculi of the two sides lie in close contact on either side of the posterior median fissure. Opposite the apex of the fourth ventricle they form an enlargement (clava), and then diverging, form the lateral boundaries of the lower part of the fourth ventricle, and gradually tapering off they soon become no longer traceable. Restiform body Clava Cuneate tuhercle 2 o