76 GENEKAL ANATOMY canal. This is known as the notocliord or chorda dorsalis. This, when fully developed, forms a continuous rod-shaped body lying below the primitive groove and composed of clear epithelium-like cells. It is essentially an embryonic structure, though traces of it remain in the centre of the intervertebral discs throughout hfe. The collection of mesoblastic cells, which forms a thick longitudinal column on either side of the neural canal, becomes separated from the rest of the mesoblastic layer. It undergoes a series of transverse segmentations and becomes converted into a row of well-defined, dark, square segments or masses, separated by clear, transverse intervals, called the protovertchrcB or mesoblastic somites. They first make their appearance in the region which afterwards becomes the neck, then further forwards towards the head, and afterwards extend along the body. These Fig. 81.—Embryonic area of the ovum of a rabbit at the seventh dav. ag. Embryouic area, o, o. Eegioii of the blastodermic vesicle immediately surrotiudiug the embrvonic area. p7\ Primitive streak. ?/. Medullary groove. (From Kolliker.) Fig. 82.—Transverse sections through the embryo-chick before and some time after the closure of the medullary canal, to show the upward and downward inflections of the blastoderm. (After Eeniak.) A 3 4 5 A. At the end of the first day. i. Noto- chord. 2. Primitive groove in the medullarj- canal. 3. Edge of the dorsal lamina. 4. Coi-neous layer or ejjiblast. 5. Mesoblast divided in its inner part. 6. Hypoblast or epithelial layer. 7. Section of protovertebral plate. 1;. On the third day in the lumbar region. I. Xotochord in its sheath. 2. Medul- lary canal now closed in. 3. Section of the medullary substance of the spinal cord. 4. Corneous layer. 5. Somato- pleure of the mesoblast. 5'. Splanchno- pleure (one figure is placed in the pi euro-peritoneal cavity). 6. Layers of liypoblast in the intestines spreading also over the yolk. 4x5. Part of the fold of the amnion formed by epiblast and somatopleure. bodies, as will be explained hereafter, are not the same as the permanent vertebrae, but they are differentiated, partly into the vertebrae and partly into the muscles and true skin. On either side of the protovertebrse the mesoblast sphts into two layers, the upper, or that covered by epiblast, is called somatopleure, and the lower, lined by hypoblast, the splanclinopleure (fig. 82, b, 5-5'). From the former the skeleton muscles and true skin of the external parts of the body are derived, from the latter the muscular and other mesoblastic portions of the viscera. 1 The space between them is the common pleuro-peritoneal cavity. Whilst the parietes of the body are still unclosed, this common pleuro-peritoneal cavity is continuous with the space between the amnion and chorion, as seen in fig. 79, F. The embryo, which at first seems to be a mere streak, extends longitudi- nally and laterally. As it grows forward the cephalic end becomes remarkably