362 ARTICULATIONS The Transverse Metatarsal Ligament is a narrow fibrous band which passes transversely across the anterior extremities of all the metatarsal bones, connecting them together. It is blended anteriorly with the plantar (glenoid) ligament of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. To its posterior border is connected the fascia covering the Interossei muscles. Its superficial surface is concave where the flexor tendons pass over it. Beneath it the tendons of the Interossei muscles pass to their insertion. It differs from the transverse metacarpal ligament in that it connects the metatarsal bone of the great toe with the rest of the metatarsal bones. Metatarso-phalangeal Articulations The metatarso-phalangeal articulations are of the condyloid kind, formed by the reception of the rounded head of the metatarsal bone into a superficial cavity in the extremity of the first phalanx. The ligaments are Plantar. Two Lateral. The Plantar Ligaments (Glenoid ligaments of Cruveilhier) are thick, dense, fibrous structures. Each is placed on the plantar surface of the joint in the interval between the lateral ligaments, to which they are connected ; they are loosely united to the metatarsal bone, but very firmly to the base of the first phalanges. Their plantar surface is intimately blended with the transverse meta- tarsal ligament, and presents a groove for the passage of the flexor tendons, the sheath surrounding which is connected to each side of the groove. By their deep surface, they form part of the articular surface for the head of the metatarsal bone, and are lined by a synovial membrane. The Lateral Ligaments are strong, rounded cords, placed one on each side of the joint, each being attached, by one extremity, to the posterior tubercle on the side of the head of the metatarsal bone ; and, by the other, to the contiguous extremity of the phalanx. The Posterior Ligament is supplied by the extensor tendon placed over the back of the joint. Actions.—The movements permitted in the metatarso-phalangeal articulations are flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction. Articulations of the Phalanges The articulations of the phalanges are ginglymus joints. The ligaments are :— Plantar. Two lateral. The arrangement of these ligaments is similar to those in the metatarso- phalangeal articulations; the extensor tendon supplies the place of a posterior ligament. Actions.—The only movements permitted in the phalangeal joints are flexion and extension; these movements are more extensive between the first and second phalanges than between the second and third. The movement of flexion is very considerable, but extension is limited by the anterior and lateral ligaments. Surface Form.— Y\-iQ principal joints wliich it is necessary to distinguish, with regard to the surgery of the foot, are the medio-tarsal and the tarso-metatarsal joints. The joint between the astrao-alus and the navicular is best found by means of the tubercle of the navicular bone, for the line of the joint is immediately behind this process. If the foot is grasped and forcibly extended, a rounded prominence, the head of the astragalus, ^yill appear on the inner side of the dorsum in front of the ankle-joint, and if a knife is carried downwards, just in front of this prominence and behind the line of the navicular tubercle, it will enter the astragalo-navicular joint. The calcaneo-cuboid joint is situated midway between the external malleolus and the prominent end of the fifth metatarsal bone._ The plane of the joint is in the same line as that of the astragalo-navicular. The position of