VEINS 656 aorta, and, having reached the under surface of the Hver, is contained in a groove in its posterior surface. In then perforates the central tendon of the Diaphragm, enters the pericardium, where it is covered by its serous layer, and terminates in the lower and back part of the right auricle. At its termination in the auricle it is provided with a valve, the Eustachian, which is of large size during foetal life. Eelations.—In front, from below upwards, with the mesentery, right spermatic artery, transverse portion of the duodenum, the pancreas, portal vein, and the posterior surface of the liver, which partly and occasionally completely surrounds it; behind, with the vertebral column, the right crus of the Diaphragm, the right renal and lumbar arteries, right semilunar ganglion; on the left side, with the aorta. Tributaries.—It receives in its course the following veins :— Lumbar. Suprarenal. Right Spermatic. Phrenic. Renal. Hepatic. Peculiarities.—In Position.—This vessel is sometimes placed on the left side of the aorta, as high as the left renal veins, after receiving which it crosses over to its usnal position on the right side; or it may be placed altogether on the left side of the aorta, as far upwards as its termination in the heart : in such cases, the abdominal and thoracic viscera, together with the great vessels, are all transposed. Point of Termination.—Occasionally the inferior vena cava joins the right azygos vein, which is then of large size. In such cases, the superior cava receives the whole of the blood from the body before transmitting it to the right auricle, except the blood from the hepatic veins, which passes directly into the right auricle. The lumbar veins, four in number on each side, collect the blood by dorsal tributaries from the muscles and integument of the loins, and by abdominal tribu- taries from the walls of the abdomen, where they communicate with the epigastric veins. At the spine, they receive veins from the spinal plexuses, and then pass forwards, round the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae beneath the. Psoas magnus, and terminate at the back part of the inferior cava. The left lumbar veins are longer than the right, and pass behind the aorta. The lumbar veins are connected together by a longitudinal vein which passes in front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and is called the ascending lumbar. It forms the most frequent origin of the corresponding vena azygos, and serves to connect the common iliac, ilio-lumbar, lumbar, and azygos veins of the corresponding side of the body. The spermatic veins emerge from the back of the testis, and receive tributaries from the epididymis; they unite and form a convoluted plexus, called the spermatic plexus {plexus imminniformis), which forms the chief mass of the cord : the vessels composing this plexus are very numerous, and ascend along the cord in front of the vas deferens ; below the external abdominal ring they unite to form three or four veins, which pass along the spermatic canal, and, entering the abdomen through the internal abdominal ring, coalesce to form two veins, which ascend on the Psoas muscle, behind the peritoneum, lying one on each side of the spermatic artery, and unite to form a single vein, which opens on the right side into the inferior vena cava, at an acute angle; on the left side into the left renal vein, at a right angle. The spermatic veins are provided with valves.* The left spermatic vein passes behind the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and is thus exposed to pressure from the contents of that bowel. Surgical Anatomy.—The spermatic veins are very frequently varicose, constituting the disease known as varicocele. Though it is quite possible that the originating cause of this affection may be a congenital abnormality either in the size or number of the veins of the pampiniform plexus, still it must be admitted that there are many anatomical * Eivington has pointed out that a valve is usually found at the orifices of both the right and left spermatic veins. When no A^alves exist at the opening of the left spermatic vein into the left renal vein, valves are generally present in the left renal vein within a quarter of an inch from the orifice of the spermatic vein. {Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. vii. p. 163.)