NERVOUS SYSTEM 734 In the median line is seen a fissure which gradually becomes obliterated above, and terminates below, near the point of the calamus scriptorius, in a somewhat cleft- like space, the ventricle of Arantius, which opens by a minute hole into the central canal of the spinal cord. From the resemblance that there is in the diverging lower boundaries of the space and the central fissure to the nib of a writing-pen, the lower triangle has been named the calamus scriptorius. On each side of the median fissure are two spindle-shaped longitudinal eminences, the fascicidi teretes ; they extend the entire length of the floor, being indistinct below and of a greyish colour, but Avell marked and whiter above. Each eminence consists of a portion of the base of the anterior cornu of grey matter of the medulla, which comes to the surface of the floor of the fourth ventricle where the central canal of the spinal cord opens out into this cavity. External to this eminence there is a slight groove which terminates below in a little fossa, called the fovea inferior.; and in the same groove, opposite the widest part of the ventricle, there is a second depression or fossa, called the fovea superior. Above the superior fovea, and external to the fasciculi teretes, is a small eminence of dark grey substance, which presents a bluish tint through the thin stratum covering it; this is called the locus ccEruleus ; and a thin streak of the same colour continued up from this on either side of the fasciculi teretes, as far as the top of the ventricle, is called the tania violacea. The lower part of the floor of the ventricle is crossed by several white transverse lines, linecB transverscB or auditory strict ; they emerge from the posterior median fissure and enter the roots of origin of the auditory nerve. The lining membrane of the fourth ventricle is continuous with that of the third, through the aqueduct of Sylvius, and its cavity communicates below with the subarachnoidean space of the brain and cord through an aperture in the layer of pia mater extending between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. Laterally, this membrane is reflected outwards a short distance between the cerebellum and medulla. The choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle are two in number: they are delicate vascular fringes, which project into the ventricle on each side, passing from the point of the inferior vermiform process to the outer margin of the restiform bodies. The grey matter in the floor of the ventricle consists of a tolerably thick stratum, continuous below with the grey commissure of the cord, and extending up as high as the aqueduct of Sylvius ; and, in addition, of some special deposits connected with the deep origin of certain of the cranial nerves. These special deposits produce little elevations on the floor of the ventricle. The nucleus of the fifth is placed the highest; the deep origin of the larger or sensory root is from a nucleus on a level with the middle of the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, just internal to the margin of the ventricle ; the deep origin of the smaller root is from a nucleus internal to the sensory root, and just external to the fasciculus teres on the floor of the ventricle. The origin of the sixth is a little lower than the motor root of the fifth, and close to the median line beneath the anterior portion of the fasciculus teres. The deep origin of the seventh, or facial, is a little below and external to the nucleus of the sixth, above the level of the auditory stride. The deep origin of the eighth, or auditory, is two-fold : one from a prominence, the auditory tubercle, on the outer side of the inferior fovea ; the other is situated at the lateral angle of the ventricle. Into this latter run the auditory striae. The deep origin of the ninth, or glosso-pharyngeal, is from a nucleus of grey matter at the lower part of the ventricle, beneath the inferior fovea, below the inner nucleus of the eighth or auditory nerve. The deep origin of the tenth, or pneumogastric, is from a nucleus of grey matter at the lower part of the ventricle, below and continuous with the nucleus of origin of the ninth or giosso-pharyngeal nerve. The deep origin of the eleventh or accessory portion of the spinal accessory is