178 THE SKELETON I end of the sagittal suture. The dentations of this suture are very deep and distinct, and are often interrupted by several small Wormian bones. The sutures at the side of the skull extend from the external angular process of the frontal bone to the lower end of the lambdoid suture behind. The anterior portion is formed between the lateral part of the frontal bone above and the malar and great wing of the sphenoid below, forming the fronto-malar and fronto- sphenoidal sutures. These sutures can also be seen in the orbit, and form part of the so-called transverse facial suture. The posterior portion is formed between the parietal bone above and the great wing of the sphenoid, the squamous and mastoid portions of the temporal bone, forming the sj^heno-jMrietal, squamo-jjarietal, and j masto-parietal sutures. I The Spheno-parietal is very short; it is formed by the tip of the great wing of i the sphenoid, which overlaps the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. ! The Squamo-parietal, or Squamous Suture, is arched. It is formed by the squamous portion of the temporal bone overlapping the middle division of the lower border of the parietal. The Masto-parietal is a short suture, deeply dentated, formed by the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, and the superior border of the mastoid portion of the i temporal. The sutures at the base of the skull are, the basilar in the centre, and on each side, the petro-occipital, the masto-occipital, the petro-sphenoiclal, and the squamo- sphenoiclal. The Basilar Suture is formed by the junction of the basilar surface of the occipital bone with the posterior surface of the body of the sphenoid. At an early period of life a thin plate of cartilage exists between these bones ; but in the adult | they become fused into one. Between the outer extremity of the basilar suture | and the termination of the lambdoid, an irregular suture exists, which is subdivided I into two portions. The inner portion, formed by the union of the petrous part of I the temporal with the occipital bone, is termed the petro-occipital. The outer ij portion, formed by the junction of the mastoid part of the temporal with the || occipital, is called the masto-occipital. Between the bones forming the petro- occipital suture, a thin plate of cartilage exists; in the masto-occipital is occa- sionally found the opening of the mastoid foramen. Between the outer extremity of the basilar suture and the spheno-parietal, an irregular suture may be seen, J formed by the union of the sphenoid with the temporal bone. The inner and | smaller portion of this suture is termed the petro-sphenoidal; it is formed between 1 the petrous portion of the temporal and the great wing of the sphenoid : the outer j portion, of greater length, and arched, is formed between the squamous portion i; of the temporal and the great wing of the sphenoid ; it is called the squamo- ;] sphenoidal. : The cranial bones are connected with those of the face, and the facial bones : with each other, by numerous sutures, which, though distinctly marked, have i received no special names. The only remaining suture deserving especial con- | sideration is the transverse. This extends across the upper part of the face, and \ is formed by the junction of the frontal with the facial bones : it extends from the i external angular process of one side to the same point on the opposite side, and ! connects the frontal with the malar, the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the lachrymal, the superior maxillary, and the nasal bones on each side. The sutures remain separate for a considerable period after the complete form- ation of the skull. It is probable that they serve the purpose of permitting the growth of the bones at their margins ; while their peculiar formation, together with the interposition of the sutural ligament between the bones forming them, i prevents the dispersion of blows or jars received upon the skull. Humphry remarks * that, as a general rule, the sutures are first obliterated at the parts in which the ossification of the skull was last completed—viz. in the neighbourhood, of the fontanelles ; and the cranial bones seem in this respect to observe a similar law to that which regulates the union of the epiphyses to the shafts of the long