979 THE PLEUE^ superficial structures, and thus to open at once the air-passages. It will be seen, however, that in operating in this way the anterior jugular veins would be in danger of being wounded. Tracheotomy may be performed either above or below the isthmus of the thyroid body: or this structure may be divided and the trachea opened beneath it. The isthmus of the thyroid gland usually crosses the second and third rings of the trachea ; along its upper border is frequently to be found a large transverse communicating branch between the superior thyroid veins ; and the isthmus itself is covered by a venous plexus, formed between the thyroid veins of the opposite sides. Theoretically, therefore, it is advisable to avoid dividing this structure in opening the trachea. Above the isthmus the trachea is comparatively superficial, being covered by the skin, superficial fascia, deep fascia, Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, and a second la^^er of the deep fascia, which, attached above to the lower border of the hyoid bone, descends beneath the muscles to the thyroid body, where it divides into two layers and encloses the isthmus. Below the isthmus the trachea lies much more deeply, and is covered by the Sterno- hyoid and the Sterno-thyroid muscles, and a quantity of loose areolar tissue, in which is a plexus of veins, some of them of large size; they converge to two trunks, the inferior thyroid veins, which descend on either side of the median line on the front of the trachea, and open into the innominate veins. In the infant the thymus gland ascends a variable distance along the front of the trachea; and opposite the episternal notch the windpipe is crossed by the left innominate vein. Occasionally also in young subjects the innominate artery crosses the tube obliquely above the level of the sternum. The thyroidea ima artery, when that vessel exists, passes from below upwards, along the front of the trachea. From these observations it must be evident that the trachea can be more readily opened above, than below, the isthmus of the thyroid body. Tracheotomy above the isthmus is performed thus : the patient should, if possible, be laid on his back on a table in a good light. A pillow is to be placed under the shoulders and the head thrown back and steadied by an assistant. The surgeon standing on the right side of his patient makes an incision from an inch and a half to two inches in length in the median line of the neck from the top of the cricoid cartilage. The incision must be made exactly in the middle line so as to avoid the anterior jugular veins, and after the superficial structures have been divided, the interval between the Sterno-hyoid muscles must be found, the raphe divided, and the muscles drawn apart. The lower border of the cricoid cartilage must now be felt for, and the upper part of the trachea exposed from this point downwards in the middle line. Bose has recommended that the layer of fascia in front of the trachea should be divided transversely at the level of the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, and, having been seized with a pair of forceps, pressed downwards with the handle of the scalpel. By this means the isthmus of the thyroid gland is depressed and is saved from all danger of being wounded, and the trachea cleanly exposed. The trachea is now transfixed with a sharp hook and drawn forwards in order to steady it, and is then opened by inserting the knife into it and dividing the two or three upper rings from below upwards. If the trachea is to be opened below the isthmus, the incision must be made from a little below the cricoid cartilage to the top of the sternum. In the child the trachea is smaller, more deeply placed, and more movable than in the adult. In fat or short-necked people, or in those in whom the muscles of the neck are prominently developed, the trachea is more deeply placed than in the opposite conditions. A portion of the larynx or the whole of it has been removed for malignant disease. The results which have been obtained from the removal of the whole of it have not been very satisfactory, and the cases in which the operation is justifiable are very few. It may be removed by a median incision through the soft parts; freeing the cartilages from the muscles and other structures in front; separating the larynx from the trachea below, and dissecting off the deeper structure from below upwards. The Pleura Each lung is invested, upon its external surface, by an exceedingly delicate serous membrane, the pleura, which encloses the organ as far as its root, and is then reflected upon the inner surface of the thorax. The portion of the serous membrane investing the surface of the lung is called the pleura imlmonalis (visceral layer of pleura), while that which lines the inner surface of the chest is called the pleura costalis (parietal layer of pleura). The space between these two layers is called the cavity of the pleura, but it must be borne in mind that in the healthy condition the two layers are in contact and there is no real cavity, until the lung becomes collapsed and a separation of it from the wall of the chest takes place. Each pleura is therefore a shut sac, one occupying the right, the other the left half of the thorax ; and they are perfectly separate, not communicating with 3 R 2