CEANIAL NEEVES 75° The inferior auricular arises behind the articulation of the jaw, and is distri- buted to the ear below the external meatus: other filaments twine round the internal maxillary artery, and communicate with the sympathetic. The superior auricular arises in front of the external ear, and supplies the integument covering the tragus and pinna. Branches to the meatus auclitorius, two in number, arise from the point of communication between the auriculo-temporal and facial nerves, and are distri- buted to the meatus. A branch to the temporo-maxillary articulation is usually derived from the auriculo-temporal nerve. The parotid branches supply the parotid gland. The anterior temporal accompanies the temporal artery to the vertex of the skull, and supplies the integument of the temporal region, communicating with the facial nerve, and the temporal branch of.the temporo-malar, from the superior maxillary. The posterior temporal, the smaller of the two, is distributed to the upper part of the pinna and the neighbouring tissues. The Lingual Nerve (gustatory) supplies the papillae and mucous membrane of the tongue. It is deeply placed throughout the whole of its course. It lies at first beneath the External pterygoid muscle, together with the inferior dental nerve, being placed to the inner side of the latter nerve, and is occasionally joined to it by a branch which crosses the internal maxillary artery. The chorda tympani also joins it at an acute angle in this situation. The nerve then passes between the Internal pterygoid muscle and the inner side of the ramus of the jaw, and crosses obliquely to the side of the tongue over the Stylo-glossus muscle, and then between the Hyo-glossus muscle and deep part of the submaxillary gland; the nerve lastly runs across Wharton's duct, and along the side of the tongue to its apex, lying immediately beneath the mucous membrane. The branches of communication are with the facial through the chorda tympani, the inferior dental and hypoglossal nerves, and the submaxillary ganglion. The branches to the submaxillary ganglion are two or three in number ; those connected with the hypoglossal nerve form a plexus at the anterior margin of the Hyo-glossus muscle. The branches of (listribution are few in number. They supply the mucous membrane of the mouth, the gums, the sublingual gland, the filiform and fungi- form papillffi and mucous membrane of the tongue; the terminal filaments communicate, at the tip of the tongue, with the hypoglossal nerve. The Inferior Dental is the largest of the three branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. It passes downwards with the inferior dental artery, at first beneath the External pterygoid muscle, and then between the internal lateral ligament and the ramus of the jaw to the dental foramen. It then passes forwards in the dental canal of the inferior maxillary bone, lying beneath the teeth, as far as the mental foramen, where it divides into two terminal branches, incisor and mental. The branches of the inferior dental are, the mylo-hyoid, dental, incisive and mental. The mylo-hyoid is derived from the inferior dental just as that nerve is about to enter the dental foramen. It descends in a groove on the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, in which it is retained by a process of fibrous membrane. It reaches the under surface of the Mylo-hyoid muscle, and supplies it and the anterior belly of the Digastric, occasionally sending one or two filaments to the submaxillary gland. The dental branches supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. They correspond in number to the fangs of those teeth : each nerve entering the orifice at the point of the fang, and supplying the pulp of the tooth. The incisive branch is continued onwards within the bone to the middle line, and supplies the canine and incisor teeth. The mental branch emerges from the bone at the mental foramen, and divides beneath the Depressor anguli oris into two or three branches ; one descends to