794 SPINAL NERVES from the fourth, descends across the base of the sacrum to join the anterior division of the first sacral nerve, and assist in the formation of the sacral plexus. The cord resulting from the union of the fifth lumbar and the branch from the fourth is called the lumbosacral nerve. Lumbar Plexus The lumbar plexus is formed by the loops of communication between the anterior divisions of the four upper lumbar nerves. The plexus is narrow above, and often connected with the last dorsal by a slender branch, the dorsi-lumhar nerve ; it is broad below, where it is joined to the sacral plexus by the lumbo-sacral cord. It is situated in the substance of the Psoas muscle near its posterior part, in front of the transverse pro- FiG. 464.—Plan of the lumbar plexus. messes of the lumbar vertebrae. The mode in which the plexus is formed is the following :— The first lumbar nerve receives a branch from the last dorsal, and gives off a larger branch, which subdivides into the ilio- hypogastric and ilio-inguinal; a communicating branch which passes down to the second lumbar nerve ; and a third branch which unites with a branch of the second lumbar to form the genito-crural nerve. The second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves divide into an anterior and pos- terior division. The anterior division of the second divides into two branches, one of which joins with the above-mentioned branch of the first nerve to form thegenito-crural; the other unites with the anterior division of the third nerve, and a part of the anterior division of the fourth nerve to form the obturator nerve. The remainder of the anterior division of the fourth nerve passes down to communi- cate with the fifth lumbar nerve. The posterior divisions of the second and third nerve divide into two branches, a smaller branch from each uniting to form the external cutaneous nerve, and a larger branch from each, which join with the whole of the posterior division of the fourth lumbar nerve to form the anterior crural. The accessory obturator, when it exists, is formed by a small branch from the third nerve joining with a small branch from the fourth. From this arrangement it follows that the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal are derived entirely from the first lumbar nerve. The genito-crural from the first and second nerves. The external cutaneous from the second and third. The anterior crural and obturator by fibres derived from the second, third, and fourth. And the accessory obturator, when it exists, from the third and fourth. The branches of the lumbar plexus are, the Ilio-hypogastric. External cutaneous. Ilio-inguinal. Anterior crural. Genito-crural. Obturator. Accessory obturator.