538 AETEEIES they are very tortuous, and lie between the integument and Occipito-frontalis, anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side, the posterior auricular and temporal arteries. They supply the back part of the Occipito-frontalis muscle, the integument, and pericranium. The Posterior Auricular Artery (fig. 349) is a small vessel which arises from the external carotid, above the Digastric and Stylo-hyold muscles, opposite the apex of the styloid process. It ascends, under cover of the parotid gland, to the groove between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process, immediately above which it divides into two branches : an anterior, auricular, passing forwards to supply the back of the auricle and anastomose with the posterior division of the temporal; and a posterior, mastoid, to the scalp above and behind the ear, communicating with the occipital. Just before arriving at the mastoid process, this artery is crossed by the portio dura, and has beneath it the spinal accessory nerve. Besides several small branches to the Digastric, Stylo-hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles, and to the parotid gland, this vessel gives off three branches :— Stylo-mastoid. Auricular. Mastoid. The stylo-mastoid branch enters the stylo-mastoid foramen, and supplies the tympanum, mastoid cells, and semicircular canals. In the young subject a branch from this vessel forms, with the tympanic branch from the internal maxillary, a vascular circle, which surrounds the auditory meatus, and from which delicate vessels ramify on the membrana tympani. It anastomoses with the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery by a twig, which enters the hiatus Fallopii. The auricular branch is distributed to the back part of the cartilage of the ear, upon which it ramifies minutely, some branches curving round the margin of the fibro-cartilage, others perforating it, to supply its anterior surface. It anastomoses with the anterior auricular branches of the temporal. The mastoid branch passes backwards, over the Sterno-mastoid muscle, to the scalp above and behind the ear. It supplies the posterior belly of the Occipito- frontalis muscle and the scalp in this situation. It anastomoses with the occipital artery. The Ascending Pharyngeal Artery (fig. 352), the smallest branch of the external carotid, is a long, slender vessel, deeply seated in the neck, beneath the other branches of the external carotid and the Stylo-pharyngeus muscle. It arises from the back part of the external carotid, near the commencement of that vessel, and ascends vertically between the internal carotid and the side of the pharynx, to the under surface of the base of the skull, lying on the Eectus capitis anticus major. Its branches may be subdivided into three sets :— Prevertebral. Pharyngeal. Meningeal. The prevertebral branches are numerous small vessels, which supply the Recti capitis antici and Longus colli muscles, the sympathetic, hypoglossal, and pneumogastric nerves, and the lymphatic glands of the neck, anastomosing with the ascending cervical artery. The pharyngeal branches are three or four in number. Two of these descend to supply the middle and inferior Constrictors and the Stylo-pharyngeus, ramifying in their substance and in the mucous membrane lining them. The largest of the pharyngeal branches passes inwards, running upon the Superior constrictor, and sends ramifications to the soft palate and tonsil, which take the place of the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery, when that vessel is of small size. A twig from this branch passes up the Eustachian tube to supply the tympanum. The meningeal branches consist of several small vessels, which pass through foramina in the base of the skull, to supply the dura mater. One, the posterior meningeal, enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum posterius ; a second passes through the foramen lacerum medium ; and occasionally a third through the anterior condyloid foramen. They are all distributed to the dura mater.