331 WEIST-JOINT VII. Eadio-caepal oe Weist-joint The Wrist is a condyloid articulation. The parts entering into its formation are the lower end of the radius and under surface of the interarticular fibro- cartilage, which form together the receiving cavity; and the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones which form the condyle. The articular surface of the radius and the under surface of the interarticular fibro-cartilage are the receiving cavity, forming together a transversely elliptical concave surface. The articular surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones form together a smooth, convex surface, the condyle, which is received into the concavity above mentioned. All the bony surfaces of the articulation are covered with cartilage, and connected together by a capsule, which is divided into the following ligaments :— External Lateral. Internal Lateral. Anterior. Posterior. Fig. 250.—Longitudinal section of the right forearm, hand, and third finger, viewed from the ulnar aspect. (After Braune.) EWSOR SEC. The External Lateral Ligament (radio-carpal) (fig. 248) extends from the summit of the styloid process of the radius to the outer side of the scaphoid, some of its fibres being prolonged to the trapezium and annular ligament. The Internal Lateral Ligament (?^7no-C(%7paZ) is a rounded cord, attached, above, to the ex- tremity of the styloid process of the ulna ; and dividing below into two fasciculi, which are attached, one to the inner side of the cuneiform bone, the other to the pisiform bone and annular ligament. The Anterior Ligament is a broad mem- branous band, attached, above, to the anterior margin of the lower end of the radius, its sty- loid process and the ulna ; its fibres pass down- wards and inwards to be inserted into the palmar surface of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, some of the fibres being con- tinued to the OS magnum. In addition to this broad membrane, there is a distinct rounded fasciculus, superficial to the rest, which passes from the base of the styloid process of the ulna to the semilunar and cuneiform bones. This ligament is perforated by numerous apertures for the passage of vessels, and is in relation, in front, with the tendons of the Flexor profundus digitorum and Flexor longus pollicis ; behind, with the synovial membrane of the wrist- joint. The Posterior Ligament (fig. 249), less thick and strong than the anterior, is attached, above, to the posterior border of the lower end of the radius ; its fibres pass obliquely down- wards and inwards, to be attached to the dorsal surface of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cunei- form bones, being continuous with those of the dorsal carpal ligaments. This ligament is in relation, behind, with the extensor tendons of the fing( synovial membrane of the wrist. in front, with the