359 OF THE TARSUS Actions.—The movements permitted between the navicular and cuneiform bones are limited to a slight gliding upon each other. The Synovial Membrane of these joints is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. 6. The Articulation of the Navicular v^ith the Cuboid The navicular bone is connected with the cuboid by Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal Ligament consists of a band of fibrous tissue which passes obliquely forwards and outwa,rds from the navicular to the cuboid bone. The Plantar Ligament consists of a band of fibrous tissue which passes nearly transversely between these two bones. The Interosseous Ligament consists of strong transverse fibres which pass between the rough non-articular portions of the lateral surfaces of these tw^o bones. Actions.—The movements permitted between the navicular and cuboid bones are limited to a slight gliding upon each other. The Synovial Membrane of this joint is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. 7, The Articulation of the Cuneiform Bones with each other These bones are connected together by Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal Ligaments consist of two bands of fibrous tissue which pass trans- versely : one connecting the internal with the middle cuneiform, and the other connecting the middle with the external cuneiform. The Plantar Ligaments have a similar arrangement to those on the dorsum. They are strengthened by the processes given off from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. The Interosseous Ligaments consist of strong transverse fibres which pass between the rough non-articular portions of the lateral surfaces of the adjacent cuneiform bones. The Synovial Membrane of these joints is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. Actions.—The movements permitted between the cuneiform bones are limited to a slight gliding upon each other. 8. The Articulation of the External Cuneiform Bone with the Cuboid These bones are connected together by Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal Ligament consists of a band of fibrous tissue which passes trans ■ versely between these two bones. The Plantar Ligament has a similar arrangement. It is strengthened by a process given off from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. The Interosseous Ligament consists of strong transverse fibres which pass between the rough non-articular portions of the lateral surfaces of the adjacent sides of these two bones. The Synovial Mem.brane of this joint is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. Actions. —The movements permitted between the external cuneiform and cuboid are limited to a slight gliding upon each other. Nerve-supply.—All the joints of the tarsus are supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. Surgical Anatomy.—In spite of the great strength of the ligaments which connect the tarsal bones together, dislocation at some of the tarsal joints does occasionally occur ;