245 OS INNOMINATUM bone; about the third year the digital extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones, and the base of the first metacarpal, begin to ossify, and they unite about the twentieth year. The Phalanges are each developed by tioo centres: one for the shaft, and one for the base. Ossification commences in the shaft, in all three rows, at about the eighth week, and gradually involves the whole of the bone excepting the upper extremity. Ossification of the base commences in the first row between the third and fourth years, and a year later in those of the second and third rows. The two centres become united, in each row, between the eighteenth and twentieth years. Of the Lowee Extremity The Lower Extremity consists of three segments, the thigh, leg, and foot, which correspond to the arm, forearm, and hand in the upper extremity. It is connected to the trunk through the os innominatum, or hip-bone, which forms the pelvic girdle. The Os Innominatum The Os Innominatum (in, not; nomino, I name), or nameless hone, so called from bearing no resemblance to any known object, is a large, irregularly shaped, flat bone, constricted in the centre and expanded above and below. With its fellow of the opposite side, it forms the sides and anterior wall of the pelvic cavity. In young subjects it consists of three separate parts, which meet and form the large, cup-like cavity situated near the middle of the outer surface of the bone ; and, although in the adult these have become united, it is usual to describe the bone as divisible into three portions-—the ilium, the ischium, and the os pubis. The ilium, so called from its supporting the flank {ilia), is the superior, broad and expanded portion which runs upwards from the upper and back part of the acetabulum, and forms the prominence of the hip. The ischium (lo-xtov, the hip) is the inferior and strongest portion of the bone ; it proceeds downwards from the acetabulum, expands into a large tuberosity, and then, curving upwards, forms, with the descending ramus of the os pubis, a large aperture, the obturator foramen. The OS pubis is that portion which runs horizontally inwards from the inner side of the acetabulum for about two inches, then makes a sudden bend, and descends for about one inch: it forms the front of the pelvis, supports the external organs of generation, and has received its name from being covered with hair. The Ilium presents for examination two surfaces—an external and an internal— a crest, and two borders—an anterior and a posterior. External Surface or Dorsum of the Ilium (fig. 207).—The back part of this surface is directed backwards, downwards, and outwards; its front part forwards, downwards, and outwards. It is smooth, convex in front, deeply concave behind ; bounded above by the crest, below by the upper border of the acetabulum ; in front and behind, by the anterior and posterior borders. This surface is crossed in an arched direction by three semicircular lines—the superior, middle, and inferior curved lines. The superior curved line, the shortest of the three, commences at the crest, about two inches in front of its posterior extremity; it is at first dis- tinctly marked, but as it passes downwards and outwards to the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch, where it terminates, it becomes less marked, and is often altogether lost. Behind this line is a narrow semilunar surface, the upper part of which is rough and affords attachment to part of the Gluteus maximus; the lower part is smooth and has no muscular fibres attached to it. The middle curved line, the longest of the three, commences at the crest, about an inch behind its anterior extremity, and, taking a curved direction downwards and backwards, terminates at forming a distinct epiphysis visible at the age of seven or eight years. He also states that there are traces of a proximal epiphysis in the second metacarpal bone. Journal of A7iato'tny, 1869,