AETEEIES 582 portion of the ulnar artery, completing the superficial palmar arch. This vessel varies considerably in size : usually it is very small, and terminates in the muscles of the thumb ; sometimes it is as large as the continuation of the radial. The posterior carpal is a small vessel which arises from the radial artery beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb ; crossing the carpus transversely to the inner border of the hand, it anastomoses with the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar, forming the posterior carpal arch, which is joined by the termination of the posterior interosseous artery. From this arch are given off descending branches, the dorsal interosseous arteries for the third and fourth interosseous S]3aces, which run forw^ards on the Third and Fourth dorsal interossei muscles and divide into dorsal digital branches which supply the adjacent sides of the middle, ring, and little fingers respectively, communicating with the digital arteries of the superficial palmar arch. At their origin they anastomose with the perforating branches from the deep palmar arch. The metacarpal (first dorsal interosseous branch.) arises beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, sometimes with the posterior carpal artery; running forwards on the Second dorsal interosseous muscle, it communicates, behind, with the corresponding perforating branch of the deep palmar arch ; and, in front, it divides into two dorsal digital branches, which supply the adjoining sides of the index and middle fingers, inosculating with the digital branch of the superficial palmar arch. The dorsales pollicis are two small vessels which run along the sides of the dorsal aspect of the thumb. They arise separately, or occasionally by a common trunk, near the base of the first metacarpal bone. The dorsalis indicis, also a small branch, runs along the radial side of the back of the index finger, sending a few branches to the Abductor indicis. The princeps pollicis arises from the radial just as it turns inwards to the deep part of the hand; it descends between the Abductor indicis and Adductor obliquus pollicis, then between the Adductor transversus pollicis and Adductor obliquus pollicis, along the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, to the base of the first phalanx, where it divides into two branches, which run along the sides of the palmar aspect of the thumb, and form an arch on the under surface of the last phalanx, from which branches are distributed to the integument and pulp of the thumb. The radialis indicis arises close to the preceding, descends between the Abductor indicis and Adductor transversus pollicis, and runs along the radial side of the index finger to its extremity, where it anastomoses with the collateral digital artery from the superficial palmar arch. At the lower border of the Adductor transversus pollicis, this vessel anastomoses with the princeps pollicis, and gives a communicating branch to the superficial palmar arch. The perforating- arteries, three in number, pass backwards between the heads of the last three Dorsal interossei muscles, to inosculate with the dorsal inter- osseous arteries. The palmar interosseous, three or four in number, are branches of the deep palmar arch; they run forwards upon the Interossei muscles, and anastomose at the clefts of the fingers with the digital branches of the superficial arch. The palmar recurrent branches arise from the concavity of the deep palmar arch. They pass upwards in front of the wrist, supplying the carpal articulations and anastomosing with the anterior carpal arch. Ulnar Aetery The Ulnar Artery, the larger of the two terminal branches of the brachial, commences a little below the bend of the elbow, and crosses obhquely the inner side of the forearm, to the commencement of its lower half ; it then runs along its ulnar border to the wrist, crosses the annular ligament on the radial side of the