381 PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION 10. Pteeygo-maxillaey Region (fig. 274) External Pterygoid. Internal Pterygoid. Dissection.—The Temporal muscle having been examined, saw through the base of the coronoid process, and draw it upwards, together with the Temporal muscle, which should be detached from the surface of the temporal fossa. Divide the ramus of the jaw just below the condyle, and also, by a transverse incision extending across the middle, just above the dental foramen; remove the fragment, and the Pterygoid muscles will be exposed. The External Pterygoid is a short, thick muscle, somewhat conical in form, which extends almost horizontally between the zygomatic fossa and the condyle of the jaw. It arises from the pterygoid ridge on the great wing of the sphenoid, and the portion of bone included between it and the base of the pterygoid process and from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. Its fibres pass horizontally backwards and outwards, to be inserted into a depression in front of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and into the corresponding part of the interarticular fibro-cartilage. This muscle, at its origin, appears to consist of two Fig. 274.—The Pterygoid muscles-; the zygomatic arch and a portion of the ramus of the jaw having been removed. portions separated by a slight interval; henoe the terms tii^per and loioer head, sometimes used in the description of the muscle. Relations.—By its external surface, with the ramus of the lower jaw, the internal maxillary artery, which crosses it,* the tendon of the Temporal muscle, and the Masseter. By its internal surface, it rests against the upper part of the Internal pterygoid, the internal lateral ligament, the middle meningeal artery, and inferior maxillary nerve ; by its tipper border it is in relation with the temporal and masseteric branches of the inferior maxillary nerve ; by its lower border it is in relation with the inferior dental and gustatory nerves, and it is pierced by the buccal nerve. In the interval between the two portions of the muscle the internal maxillary artery passes, when this vessel lies on the muscle (see fig. 274). The Internal Pterygoid is a thick, quadrilateral muscle, and resembles the Masseter in form. It arises from the pterygoid fossa, being attached to the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and to the grooved surface of the tuberosity * This is the usual relation, but in many cases the artery will be found below the muscle.