OEGANS OF DIGESTION 876 its limited sensibility. Around the necks of the teeth this membrane presents nmiierous fine papillae; and from this point it is reflected into the alveolus, where it is continuous with the periosteal membrane lining that cavity. The Teeth The human subject is provided with two sets of teeth, which make their appear- ance at different periods of life. The first set appear in childhood, and are called the temporary, deciduous, or milk teeth. The second set, which also appear at an early period, continue until old age, and are named permanent. The te7nporary teeth are twenty in number : four incisors, two canine, and four molars, in each jaw. The permanent teeth are thirty-two in number : four incisors (two central and two lateral), two canines, four bicuspids, and six molars, in each jaw. General Characters.—YiS^ch. tooth consists of three portions : the croion, or body, projecting above the gum ; the root, or fang, entirely concealed within the alveolus ; and the neck, the constricted portion, between the other two. The roots of the teeth are firmly implanted within the alveoli; these depressions are lined with periosteum, which is reflected on to the tooth at the point of the fang, and covers it as far as the neck. At the margin of the alveolus, the periosteum becomes continuous with the fibrous structure of the gums. Permanent Teeth The incisors, or cutting teeth, are so named from their presenting a sharp cutting edge, adapted for biting the food. They are eight in number, and form the four front teeth in each jaw. The croion is directed vertically, and is wedgelike in form, being bevelled at the expense of its posterior surface, so as to terminate in a sharp horizontal cutting edge, which, before being subject to attrition, presents three small prominent points. It is convex, smooth, and highly polished in front ; concave behind, where it is frequently marked by slight longitudinal furrows. The neck is constricted. The fang is long, single, conical, transversely flattened, thicker before than behind, and slightly grooved on each side in the longitudinal direction. The incisors of the upper jatv are altogether larger and stronger than those of the lower jaw. They are directed obliquely downwards and forwards. The two central ones are larger than the two lateral, and their free edges are sharp and chisel-like, being bevelled at the expense of their posterior edge : the root is more rounded. The incisors of the loioer jaio are smaller than the upper : the two central ones are smaller than the two lateral, and are the smallest of all the incisor teeth. The canine teeth, (cuspidati) are four in number: two in the upper, and two in the lower jaw ; one being placed behind each lateral incisor. They are larger and stronger than the incisors, especially the root, which sinks deeply into the jaw, and causes a well-marked prominence upon its surface. The crown is large and conical, very convex in front, a little hollowed and uneven posteriorly, and tapering to a blunted point or cusp, which rises above the level of the other teeth. The root is single, but longer and thicker than that of the incisors, conical in form, compressed laterally, and marked by a slight groove on each side. The upper canine teeth (vulgarly called eye-teeth) are] larger and longer than the two lower, and situated a little behind them. The loioer canine teeth are placed in front of the upper, so that their summits correspond to the interval between the upper canine tooth and the neighbouring incisors on each side. The bicuspid teeth (premolars, small, or false molars) are eight in number: 4