90 GENERAL ANATOMY divided, by a median and transverse groove, into four tubercles (tubercula quadri- gemina) which are gradually covered in by the growth of the cerebral hemispheres. Its cavity diminishes as its walls thicken, and contracts to form the aqueduct of Sylvius. The crura cerebri are also formed from this vesicle. The third primary cerebral vesicle, at an early period (between the ninth and twelfth week), consists | of the hind-brain or epencephalon, forming the cerebellum, pons Varolii, and anterior part of the fourth ventricle; and of the after-brain or metencephalon, which forms the medulla oblongata with the rest of the fourth ventricle. The development of the pituitary body has of late received much attention. It j is mainly formed by a diverticulum from the buccal involution of epiblast. At its \ upper and front part this involution, from which the mouth or stomodaeum is I developed, forms a hollow saccular protrusion, which extends into the angle formed j by the bend of the fore- with the mid-brain. Here it comes in contact with a | median hollow protrusion, which passes downwards and backwards from the posterior portion of the anterior cerebral vesicle (fig. 91, c, if). They become j intimately connected, and together form the pituitary body or hypophysis. j When the medullary groove is first closed, the foetal spinal marrow occupies its whole length, and presents a large central canal, which gradually contracts in ! consequence of the thickening and rapid growth of the epiblast around it. This increase in thickness takes place principally at the sides, so that eventually the central canal acquires on section the appearance of a slit. According to some < investigators, the two sides of this slit eventually join in the middle, and the original canal is divided into two : an anterior, which becomes the central permanent ! canal, which in after-life is no longer perceptible to the eye, though it is still ( visible on microscopic section ; and a posterior, which becomes filled about the ' ninth Aveek with a septum of connective tissue from the pia mater, and forms the { posterior fissure of the cord. According to other observers, the posterior fissure is i formed independently of the central canal, as a cleft formed by the enlarging i lateral halves of the cord, into which an ingrowth of connective tissue from the 1 pia mater takes place. The anterior fissure is apparently formed in this latter „ manner, simply as a cleft left between the lateral halves of the cord. i After the fourth month the spinal column begins to grow in length more \ rapidly than the medulla spinalis, so that the latter no longer occupies the whole | canal. The cord is composed at first entirely of uniform-looking cells, which soon \ separate into two layers, the inner of which forms the epithelium of the central 1 canal, while the outer forms the central grey substance of the cord. The white columns are formed later ; their rudiments can be detected about the fourth week, and some embryologists believe that they are developed from the mesoblast. I The cerebral and spinal membranes are, according to Kolliker, a production from the protovertebral discs, and are recognisable about the sixth week. As the fissures ' separating the segments of the cerebro-spinal axis appear, the membranes extend , through them, and the pia mater passes into the cerebral ventricles. Bischoff, • however, describes the pia mater and arachnoid as developed from the cerebral vesicles, so that they are, according to him, formed in the position which they | permanently occupy. ; The Nerves.—The nerves are developed, like the rest of the nervous system, ! from epiblast. The spinal nerves are developed as follows :—Close to the point | of involution of the epiblast in the median line, that is to say, in the angle of j junction of the neural and general epibJast, a cellular swelling constituting the j neural crest appears and forms a continuous ridge on the dorsal aspect of the j neural canal. On this crest enlargements occur, corresponding with the middle j of each protovertebral segment. These grow downwards between the neural canal and the mesoblastic tissue forming the protovertebrte, and occupy a position on the i lateral wall of the canal. These enlargements are the rudiments of the ganglion i of the posterior root; they are at first attached to the neural crest from which they spring, but subsequently this attachment becomes lost, and they then form isolated masses on either side of the neural canal, which now contains the rudimentary s