489 ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION intermuscular septum. It also arises from nearly the whole of the internal, anterior, and external surfaces of the shaft of the femur, limited, above, by the line between the two trochanters, and extending, below, to Avithin the lower fourth of the bone. From these different origins, the fibres converge to a broad aponeurosis, which covers the anterior surface of the middle portion of the muscle (the Crureus), and the deep surface of tlie inner division of the muscle (the Vastus internus), and which gradually narrows down to its insertion into the patella, where it blends with the other portions of the Quadriceps extensor. The muscular fibres of the Vastus internus extend lower down than those of the Vastus externus, so that the capsule of - the joint is less covered with muscular fibres on the outer than on the inner side. Relations.—By its su/perficial siirface, with the Psoas and Iliacus, the Rectus, Sartorius, Pectineus, Adductors, and fascia lata, femoral vessels, and saphenous nerve. By its deep surface, with the femur, Subcrureus, and synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The student will observe the striking analogy that exists between the Quadri- ceps extensor and the Triceps muscle in the upper extremity. So close is this similarity, that M. Cruveilhier has described it under the name of the Triceps femoralis. Like the Triceps extensor cubiti, it consists of three distinct divisions, or heads : a middle or long head, the Rectus, analogous to the long head of the Triceps, attached to the ilium, and two other portions, which may be called the external and internal heads of the Triceps femoralis. These, it will be noticed, are strictly analogous to the outer and inner heads of the Triceps in the arm. The tendons of the different portions of the Quadriceps extensor unite at the lower part of the thigh, so as to form a single strong tendon, which is inserted into the upper part of the patella. More properly, the patella may be regarded as a sesamoid bone, developed in the tendon of the Quadriceps ; and the ligamentum patellae, which is continued from the lower part of the patella to the tuberosity of the tibia, as the proper tendon of insertion of the muscle. A synovial bursa, the post-patellar bursa, is interposed between the tendon and the upper part of the tuberosity of the tibia; and another, the prepatellar bursa, is placed over the patella itself. This latter bursa often becomes enlarged, constituting ' house- maid's knee.' The Subcrureus is a small muscle, usually distinct from the Crureus, but occa- sionally blended with it, which arises from the anterior surface of the lower part of the shaft of the femur, and is inserted into the upper part of the cul-de-sac of the capsular ligament which projects upwards beneath the Quadriceps for a variable distance. It sometimes consists of two separate muscular bundles. Nerves.—The Tensor vaginae femoris is supplied by the superior gluteal nerve ; the other muscles of this region, by branches from the anterior crural. Actions.—The Tensor vaginge femoris is a tensor of the fascia lata ; continuing its action, the oblique direction of its fibres enables it to abduct and to rotate the thigh inwards. In the erect posture, acting from below, it will serve to steady the pelvis upon the head of the femur; and by means of the ilio-tibial band it steadies the condyles of the femur on the articular surfaces of the tibia, and assists the Gluteus maximus in supporting the knee in the extended position. The Sartorius flexes the leg upon the thigh, and, continuing to act, flexes the thigh upon the pelvis ; it next rotates the thigh outwards. It was formerly supposed to adduct the thigh, so as to cross one leg over the other, and hence received its name of Sartorius, or tailor's muscle (sartor, a tailor), because it was supposed to assist in crossing the legs in the squatting position. When the knee is bent, the Sartorius assists the Semitendinosus, Semimembranosus, and Popliteus in rotating the tibia inwards. Taking its fixed point from the leg, it flexes the pelvis upon the thigh, and, if one muscle acts, assists in rotating the pelvis. The Quadriceps extensor extends the leg upon the thigh. Taking its fixed pomt from the leg, as in standing, this muscle will act upon the femur, supporting it perpendicularly upon the head of the tibia, and thus maintaining the entire weight of the body, or, in the stooping position, it