5o8 MUSCLES AND FASCL^ At the iniier border of the latter tendon, these two layers join togei)her, forming a sort of loop or sheath in which the tendons are enclosed, surrounded by a synovial membrane. From the inner extremity of this loop, two bands are given off: one passes upwards and inwards to be attached to the internal malleolus, passing over the Extensor proprius hallucis and vessels and nerves, but enclosing the Tibialis anticus and its synovial sheath by a splitting of its fibres. The other limb passes downwards and inwards to be attached to the navicular and internal cuneiform bones, and passes over both the tendon of the Extensor proprius hallucis and the Tibialis anticus and also the vessels and nerves. These two tendons are contained in separate synovial sheaths situated beneath the ligament. It will thus be seen that the horizontal portion of the ligament is like the letter Y, the foot of the letter being attached to the os calcis, and the two diverging arms to the tibia and navicular and internal cuneiform respectively. The Internal Annular Ligament is a strong fibrous band, which extends from the inner malleolus above, to the internal margin of the os calcis below, converting a series of grooves in this situation into canals, for the passage of the tendons of the Flexor muscles and vessels into the sole of the foot. It is continuous by its upper border with the deep fascia of the leg, and by its lower border with the plantar fascia and the fibres of origin of the Abductor hallucis muscle. The three canals which it forms transmit, from within outwards, first, the tendon of the Tibialis posticus ; second, the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum ; then the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, which run through a broad space beneath the ligament; lastly, in a canal formed partly by the astragalus, the tendon of the Flexor longus. hallucis. Each of these canals is lined by a separate synovial membrane. The External Annular Ligament extends from the extremity of the outer malleolus to the outer surface of the os calcis : it binds down the tendons of the Peronei muscles in their passage beneath the outer ankle. The two tendons are enclosed in one synovial sac. Dissection of the Sole of the Foot.—The foot should be placed on a high block with the sole uppermost, and firmly secured in that position. Carry an incision round the heel and along the inner and outer borders of the foot to the great and little toes. This incision should divide the integument and thick layer of granular fat beneath, until the fascia is visible; the skin and fat should then be removed from the fascia in a direction from behind forwards, as seen in fig. 328. The Plantar Fascia, the densest of all the fibrous membranes, is of great strength, and consists of dense pearly-white glistening fibres, disposed, for the most part, longitudinally : it is divided into a central and two lateral portions. The central portion, the thickest, is narrow behind and attached to the inner tubercle of the os calcis, behind the origin of the Flexor brevis digitorum; and becoming broader and thinner in front, divides near the heads of the metatarsal bones into five processes, one ^or each of the toes. Each of these processes divides opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulation into two strata, superficial and deep. The superficial stratum is inserted into the skin of the transverse sulcus which divides the toes from the sole. The deeper stratum divides into two slips which embrace the sides of the flexor tendons of the toes, and blend with the sheaths of the tendons and laterally with the transverse metatarsal ligament, thus forming a series of arches through which the tendons of the short and long flexors pass to the toes. The intervals left between the five processes allow the digital vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the Lumbricales muscles, to become superficial. At the point of division of the fascia into processes and slips, numerous transverse fibres are superadded, which serve to increase the strength of the fascia at this part by binding the processes together, and connecting them with the integument. The central portion of the plantar fascia is continuous with the lateral portions at each side, and sends upwards into the foot, at their point of junction, two strong vertical intermuscular septa, broader in front than behind, which separate the middle from the external and internal plantar group of muscles ; from these again thinner transverse septa are derived, which separate the various layers of muscles in this