THE SKELETON 270 membranosus ; to the outer tuberosity, the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum and Biceps; to the shaft, its internal surface, the Sartorius, Gracilis, and Semi-tendinosus ; to its external surface, the Tibialis anticus ; to its posterior surface, the Pophteus, Soleus, Flexor longus digitorum, and Tibiahs posticus; to the tubercle, the ligamentum patellae, Surface Form.—A considerable portion of the tibia is subcutaneous and easily to be felt. At the upper extremity the taberosities are to be recognised just below the knee. The internal one is broad and smooth, and merges into the subcutaneous surface of the shaft below. The external one is narrower and more prominent, and on it, about midway between the apex of the patella and the head of the fibula, may be felt a prominent tubercle for the insertion of the ilio-tibial band. In front of the upper end of the bone, between the tuberosities, is the tubercle of the tibia, forming an oval eminence, which is continuous below with the anterior border or crest of the bone. This border can be felt, forming the prominence of the shin, in the upper two-thirds of its extent being sharp and presenting a somewhat flexuous course, being curved outwards above and inwards below. In the lower third of the leg the border disappears and the bone is concealed by the tendons of the muscles on the front of the leg. Internal to the anterior border is to be felt the broad internal surface of the tibia, slightly encroached upon by the muscles in front and behind. It commences above at the wide expanded inner tuberosity and terminates below at the internal malleolus. The internal malleolus is a broad prominence situated on a higher level and somewhat further forwards than the external malleolus. It overhangs the inner border of the arch of the foot. Its anterior border is nearly straight, its posterior border presents a sharp edge, which forms the inner margin of the groove for the tendon of the Tibialis posticus muscle. The Fibula (figs. 220, 221) The Fibula (fibula, a clasp) is situated at the outer side of the leg. It is the smaller of the two bones, and, in proportion to its length, the most slender of all the long bones ; it is placed nearly parallel but behind the level of the tibia. Its upper extremity is small, placed towards the back of the head of the tibia, and below the level of the knee-joint, and excluded from its formation ; the lower extremity inclines a little forwards, so as to be on a plane anterior to that of the upper end, projects below the tibia, and forms the outer ankle. It presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. The Upper Extremity, or Head, is of an irregular quadrate form, presenting above a flattened articular facet, directed upwards, forwards and inw^ards, for articulation with a corresponding facet on the external tuberosity of the tibia. On the^outer side is a thick and rough prominence, continued behind into a pointed eminence, the styloid process, which projects upwards from the posterior part of the head. The prominence gives attachment to the tendon of the Biceps muscle, and to the long external lateral ligament of the knee, the ligament dividing the tendon into two parts. The summit of the styloid process gives attachment to the short external lateral ligament. The remaining part of the circumference of the head is rough, for the attachment of the anterior superior tibio-fibular ligament, presenting, in front, a tubercle for the attachment of the upper and anterior part of the Peroneus longus; and behind, another tubercle for the attachment of the posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament, and the upper fibres of the Soleus muscle. The shaft presents four borders—the antero-external, the antero-internal, the postero-external, and the postero-internal; and four surfaces—anterior, posterior, internal, and external. The antero-external border commences above in front of the head, runs verti- cally downwards to a little below the middle of the bone, and then curving some- what outwards, bifurcates so as to embrace the triangular subcutaneous surface immediately above the outer surface of the external malleolus. This border gives attachment to an intermuscular septum, which separates the extensor muscles on the anterior surface of the leg from the Peroneus longus and brevis muscles. The antero-internal border, or interosseous ridge, is situated close to the inner side of the preceding, and runs nearly parallel with it in the upper third of its extent, but diverges from it so as to include a broader space in the lower two-thirds. It commences above just beneath the head of the bone (sometimes it is quite