121 LUMBAR VERTEBRA concave surface, for articulation with the tubercle of a rib. Besides the articular facet for the rib, three indistinct tubercles may be seen rising from the transverse processes, one at the upper border, one at the lower border, and one externally. In man, they are comparatively of small size, and serve only for the attachment of muscles. But in some animals they attain considerable magnitude, either for the purpose of more closely connecting the segments of this portion of the spine, or for muscular and ligamentous attachment. The peculiar dorsal vertebrjB are the first, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelftJi (fig. 114). The First Dorsal Vertebra presents, on each side of the body, a single entire articular facet for the head of the first rib, and a half-facet for the upper half of the second. The upper surface of the body is like that of a cervical vertebra, being broad transversely, concave, and lipped on each side. The articular surfaces are oblique, and the sjjinous process thick, long, and almost horizontal. The Ninth Dorsal has no demi-facet below. In some subjects, however, the ninth has two demi-facets on each side, then the tenth has a demi-facet at the upper part; none below^ The Tenth Dorsal has (except in the cases just mentioned) an entire articular facet on each side above, which is partly placed on the outer surface of the pedicle. It has no demi-facet below. In the Eleventh Dorsal, the body approaches in its form and size to the lumbar. The articular facets for the heads of the ribs, one on each side, are of large size, and placed chiefly on the pedicles, which are thicker and stronger in this and the next vertebra than in any other part of the dorsal region. The s]:)inous process is short, nearly horizontal in direction, and presents a slight tendency to bifurcation at its extremity. The transverse processes are • very short, tubercular at their extremities, and have no articular facets for the tubercles of the ribs. The Twelfth Dorsal has the same general characters as the eleventh ; but may be distinguished from it by the inferior articular processes being convex and turned outwards, like those of the lumbar vertebras; by the general form of the body, laminas, and spinous process, approaching to that of the lumbar vertebrae ; and by the transverse processes being shorter, and marked by three elevations, the superior, inferior, and external tubercles, which correspond to the mammillary, accessory, and transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras. Traces of similar elevations are usually to be found upon the other dorsal vertebrae (vide ut supra). Chaeactebs of the Lumbar Vertebe^ The Lumbar Vertebrae (fig. 115) are the largest segments of the vertebral column, and can at once be distinguished by the absence of the foramen in the transverse process, the characteristic point of the cervical vertebrae, and by the- absence of any articulating facet on the side of the body, the distinguishing mark of the dorsal vertebrae. The body is large, and has a greater diameter from side to side than from before backw^ards, slightly thicker in front than behind, flattened or slightly concave above and below, concave behind, and deeply constricted in front and at the sides, presenting prominent margins, w^hich afford a broad basis for the support of the superincumbent weight. The pedicles are very strong, directed backwards from the upper part of the bodies ; consequently, the inferior intervertebral notches are of considerable depth. The lamince, are broad, short, and strong ; and the spinal foramen triangular, larger than in the dorsal, smaller than in the cervical, region. The spinous p)rocesses are thick and broad, somewhat quadrilateral, horizontal in direction, thicker below than above, and terminating by a rough, uneven border. The superior articular processes are concave, and look backw^ards and inwards ; the inferior, convex, look forwards and outwards; the former are separated by a much wilder interval than the latter, embracing the low^er articulating processes of the vertebra above. The transverse processes are long, slender, directed