FRACTURE. 65 was loss tlmn niiglit have been expected ; and the constitutional disturbance was inconsider- able, owing probably to the natural tempera- ment of the patient, and his long previous preparation. The suppuration seemed to be confined to the periosteum and ends of the bone; the surrounding soft parts remaining almost free from pain and tumefaction. “ The object to which it was necessary to pay close attention, during the progress of cicatrization, was to counteract the resistance of the muscles, and to prevent contraction at the cicatrix when union had taken place. “ The limb, throughout the whole treatment, waskeptupon the heel, with the knee straight. At first, two long lateral splints, well padded, were applied, so as to embrace the foot on each side : to these were added afterwards an under splint, to give more effective support and steadiness to the limb. The constant ten- dency to displacement was not effectually pre- vented by common tapes and bandages: as these became slack, the leg assumed its for- mer distorted position ; and thus motion was given to the broken ends of the bone, in ad- justing the line of the limb. To avoid this, which was not practicable by means of straps or bandages, a tourniquet was applied at either end of the splint, as shown in the sketch. The length of lever enabled the upper tourniquet to act with great power on the foot, and to keep it in a straight line with the thigh. The lower one was kept firmly screwed to the heel of the two splints ; thus keeping the foot firmly secured, and giving steadiness to the action of the upper tourniquet. This plan of keeping the tapes of the tourniquets tight prevented motion or displacement in the ends of the bones. It was at one time attempted to substitute the white-of-egg bandage in place of the splints ; but the attempt was un- satisfactory, as displacement of the limb gra- dually took place ; and we were compelled again to have recourse to the method which had answered our purpose so well, with the addition of a long outside pad on the fibula. “ The process of union and of consolidation was necessarily tedious, from the limited points of contact between the sawn ends of the bone and the space which had to be filled up on its inner part. It was not till the be- ginning of January that union could be said to have taken place ; as before that time the limb would slightly yield, when released from the splints. On the 18th of January, the wound having been some time closed, and the bone seeming to be firmly united. Sir Astley Cooper, who had unremittingly watched the progress of the case, made a careful exami- nation of the leg, and pronounced it to be united and firm. The fibula, though deviating but little from its usual appearance, had not become quite firm in its new position ; the ligaments remaining weak, and unable to sus- tain^ it without allowing some slight lateral motion. It was deemed advisable, while the external callus was forming and acquiring firmness,to continue the splints with common bandages and fillets. This precaution was also rendered necessary, by the possibility of the newly-formed cartilage contracting before bone had been deposited in sufficient quantity to give it solidity. The length of the limb ap|)eared little less than its fellow, when they W'ere laid parallel to one another. “ Captain Charlton left town,under the care of Mr. Atkins, on the 24th of January. “ On the 10th of March, Mr. Atkins informed me, by letter, that the long splints had been discontinued, and that the leg maintained as good a position as when he left town. Se- veral small portions of bone had come aw'ay, which had retarded the cicatrization of the wound. In other respects, he was proceeding well.” I am enabled to state that Captain Charl- ton lost all symptoms of necrosis, and walked veiy well, with the use of a slight iron along the outer side of the leg, which was deemed necessary for near a twelvemonth as a pre- cautionary measure, and a means of strength- ening the limb and retaining the fibida in situ. Captain C. has since set out to join his regi- ment in India. OF FEACTURES WHICH REMAIN WITHOUT BONY UNION AT THE ORDINARY PERIOD OF CON- SOLIDATION. The terms pseudarthrosis, false joint, or non-union, serve to express in a general way the absence of ossific union ; but we shall find that the oases require, for the sake of neces- sary distinctions, to be divided into varieties. The accompanying table of recorded cases of non-union after fracture exhibits the chief facts of each case, together with the source whence each is derived. Dr. Norris states, that “ no reference is given which I have not myself examined ; and the collection, so far as the American, English, and French Jour- nals and surgical works arc concerned, will be found tolerably complete. A number of cases might, I doubt not, be added from the German.” Dr. Norris' has furnished rough, but suffi- cient, data for concluding, that scarcely one instance of non-union occurs in every six or seven hundred cases of fracture ; and, indeed, it will rarely happen at the time when we have reason to expect, from the usual course of such cases, a fracture has become united, that on examination, we shall find the parts still quite moveable with respect to one another. ' An chihorntc and systematic essay on the non- union of fractures, lately published hy Dr. .T. W. Norris, of Philadelphia, renders it both easy and ne- cessary to e.\tcnd our remarks on this subject. Tlio essay is highly satisfactory in almost every respect, and we purpose freely to avail ourselves of its pages,— See A merican Journal of the Medical Sciences, .Ian. 7 lfl42. We are indebted to Mr. T. Wilkinson King| for the extension, and illustrations of this subject.