4 Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the twelve square inches, the alteration being circumscribed by an abrupt margin of flocculent pleura: beyond, the serous sur- face was quite natural. The surface of the lung, thus denuded, did not appear otherwise altered: it was of an uniform aspect, rather dark, and, under pressure, exuded little bubbles of air, at all points. The opposed pleura costalis, when sponged, seemed entire; but it was not fully examined. The left pleura seemed to contain a little dark fluid; but the obtuse edge of the lung was unaffected, except that the pleura could be torn off with unusual facility in bands, which were very thin and soft; and beneath the membrane there was a good deal of superficial ecchymosis, and even some bloody vesicles. The deeper parts were unaffected. There were traces of bronchitis. The oesophagus was found dissolved, as the stomach is often seen to be. At two places just above the stomach, its whole circumference was destroyed, leaving an intermediate portion of tube of about one inch in length; the ends of which, like the upper and lower divided ends of the oesophagus, were soft and flocculent. The nerves were much acted on, but they had resisted rather more than the other tissues. The surrounding cellular membrane was similarly affected; and it was unduly lacerahle in the mediastinum, above the parts actually dis- solved. It seemed that the perforation of the reflected pleui-a was immediately above the diaphragm. The stomach was entire; and it was lined with a considerable layer of mucus, especially towards the right end. The liver was rather pale, and coarse in texture: the spleen full, and softening within. The end of the ileum was much ulcerated, and full of grumous blood.* REMARKS. M. Louis is partially in erroi’, in describing the softening of the oesophageal lining as always most considerable next the stomach: for although the remark is generally true, * See Preparations in tlie Museum—of the Lung, 1784'®; and of the Gisophagus, 1793“®.