FRACTURE. 96 which, I think, should rather be considered as a diastasis. It occurred in the person of a youngish man, who received a very severe injuiy over the j)art, but had no paralysis. His healtli appeared to decline, with febrile symptoms, and he died many months after the accident, without any symptom of the disease of the spinal marrow. The processus den- tatus w'as found detached from the body of the second vertebra, with some little lateral displacement. The broken surfaces, when macerated, were rough and minutely spongy, but not cancellated or dense. Around their apposed edges w'ere some slight masses of ossific separation attached to the body of the vertebras. Here the want of due coaptation, though slight, was sufficient to prevent ossific union. The three bones of wdiich the os innomi- natum originally consists, are not united into one till towards the eighteenth or twentieth year; before which they may be forcibly separated from one another. M. Dupuytren speaks of a case in which the bones forming the cotyloid cavity had been forced in, and the head of the femur had passed completely into the cavity of the pelvis. At a very early period of life the sternum consists of two lateral halves, wdiich soon unite at the middle suture, and of several transverse pieces, which are often not soldered together till about the age of puberty. These pieces are sometimes separated by violence at the transverse junctions. (See Luxations.) The costal cartilages are liable to be separated at their articulations wdth the ribs, constituting an injury of the same nature as that of which we are speaking. The rule laid dowm for the treatment of dislocation of the costal cartilage, by Sir A. Cooper, is applicable to all these cases. He directs the surgeon to desire the patient to make a full inspiration, and then to press the cartilage into its place. When the chest is well expanded by a full inspiration, the projecting cartilage can ahvays be re- placed without much difficulty. The reduc- tion is to be maintained by a piece of moist- ened pasteboard secured over the injured jiart by compress, and a broad flannel bandage passed round the chest so firmly as to throw' the work of respiration on the diaphragm. The separation of the epiphyses from the shafts of long bones, in consec]^uence of vio- lence inflicted at the time of birth, or in early life, is frequent; and the danger, that the accident will be overlooked or mistaken for dislocation or fracture, great; and it is there- fore of much consequence that the practi- tioner should be prepared with precise ana- tomical knowledge of the various situations in w'hich the accident may occur, and atten- tive to examine every case in which there is a probability that the lesion has taken place. The only symptom on which wo can rely is the existence of unnatural mobility in the bone, at the jioint where anatomy inforins us the e[)iphysis is united to its shaft. ^ If the accident bo overlooked, and the ])atient bo allowed to use the limb, there is much risk of his being crippled. In the upper extremity, separations of the head of the humerus, the condyles, and lower extremity of the same bone, and the low'er extremity of the radius, are the more frequent: in the lower extre- mity, the injury is most common at the head of the femur, and the condyles of the same bone. Sir Charles Bell ‘ says, “ I havd known it occur in the humerus from a boy firing a musket ; in the head of the thigh- bone from a fretful child casting himself back- w’ards whilst held in the nurse’s arms. I have found it in the lower head of the femur,—the leg of the boy having been caught in the' spokes of the w'heel whilst he was attempting to get upon the back of a carriage.” The sepa- ration by violence of the epiphyses forming the upper extremities of the radius and ulna,. the trochanters, and that forming the head of: the tibia, are more uncommon. The separation i of the epiphyses that form the olecranon andl great trochanter, may be caused either by external or muscular force. It is difficult to • conceive that the lesser trochanter can be ■ separated from thd^ shaft of the femur, except by muscular contraction. I have once seen,, in a lad, the epiph^'sis at the upper end of the first phalanx of the fore-finger, detached from the shaft. It is remarkable, that w'hat pre- vents the more frequent occurrence of this accident is not so much the strength w'ith which the epijihysis adheres to the shaft, as i the support given to the junction between them by the periosteum. In dissecting these parts, before the time of consolidation ap- jiroaches, w'e find that the great cartilaginous nidus of an epiphysis seems to be nothing more nor less than a massive expansion of the periosteum of the shaft, on which they arc superposed, or of the other masses or epiphysis to which they are destined to grow. In all the foregoing cases, the same general principles of treatment are to be applied as in fractures in the same situations. The reader will find some illustrative cases connected with the accounts of fractures of particular bones. (J. Macdonnell.') After a careful study of the more general facts and jirinciples relating to fractures, the reader will be prepared to enter with advan- tage upon the consideration of PARTICULAR FRACTURES. The following appears to be the most sim- ))le systematic arrangement of the parts liable to fractures : 'Fhe bones of the spine, cranium, face, larynx, thorax, arm, pelvis, and leg. ' InsHtulce of Surgery, vol. i. p. 3.