4 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart of easy discussion; but no one could rightly enter upon this study, and still less could therapeutic views be admitted, without a physiological knowledge of the parts in question. These reflections will, I hope, excuse, if they do not justly introduce, the following detached observations; which, I would hope, are almost all appreciable to practitioners of the usual share of attainments. In the following observations, the safety-valve is con- sidered with reference— 1. To the child at birth &c. 2. To the proportion of safety-valve, as compared with the pulse, 3. To the habits of animals. 4. To the structure in the beaver, the dugong, and the quadrumana. 5. To some apparent exceptions;—in the water-rat, the otter, and the ornithorynchus. SECT. 1.—OF THE GRADUAI, DEVELOPMENT OF THE SAFETY-VALVE IN THE HUMAN HEART AFTER BIRTH, AND THE ANALOGIES IN A SERIES OF THE MAMMALIA. During the foetal life of the human being, when the right ventricle of the heart possesses walls comparatively thick and powerful, the action of its valve is pretty certainly most efficient: at a certain time, indeed, the two ventricles seem in all respects equal. When, however, the child begins to respire, and the easy flow of blood through the lungs leaves but little occasion for the exertion of the right ventricle (the ductus arteriosus being in effect closed), the substance and power of this cavity quickly decline*; while, at the same time, the aortic circulation demands increasing energy in the opposite ventricle, to the nourishment of which the newly-arterialised blood is diverted in a greater proportion. The left ventricle again, on which depend the supplies and development of the whole body, now engrosses to itself all the substance of the septum of the ventricles. In the first days after birth, the blood is probably little in * This decrease may commence before birth; and the cause, I conceive, will be found in a somewhat increasing degree of freedom in the circulation through tlie lungs.