CIRCULATION :—A. PHYSI0LOGT ; B. PATHOLOGY, &C. 28. A. The corded valves of the heart require that the blood should throw back the curtains, and make the cords tense, and even elongate their conic muscles, before the latter can duly contract; and this action compensates for systolic approximation of the ventricular walls. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, No. 10.) 29. Where the valves of the heart are more than equal to the opening they close up, the curtains overlap, and present surfaces of contact, whose extent varies with the energy of circulation, and whose diseases, atrophic or inflammatory, are specific. (Ibid.) 30. The lymphatic system is constructed for rapid circula- tion. (Ibid.) 31. The veins pulsate : a bristle applied with gum as a lever is visibly raised by a full vein. Med. Gaz., vol. xviii., p. 530.) 32. The tricuspid is a safety-valve. The thin wall of the right ventricle yields to temporary distensions, and the valve is retracted out of place. This effect increases from birth, and varies throughout the series of warm-blooded animals, being greatest in the divers, which also have the greatest reservoir vessels. (Guy’s Hos. Rep., No. 4 and 10; read before the Royal Society, 1835 & 6.) 33. White patches on the heart indicate points of projection, attrition, and inflammation, &c. (Guy’s Hosp. Reports, No. 6.) 34. The ductus arteriosus at birth, may owe its closure to sud- den compression over the left bronchus. Analogy in' Reptilia. (Medical Gazette, July, 1840.) 35. B. Fatal bleedings occur soon after ligature. Late bleed- ing and tardy ligatures most safe. External formations alone seal the end of tied vessels; uniting the two ends of a vessel by a cord whose centre first holds the ligature. Collateral circulation, a simple necessary result of obstructing and weakening vessels. Analogies between different cases of dilating arteries, physiolo- gical and pathological. The Hunterian method of tying vessels was not with cutting ligatures, and not the less secure. Great vessels closing sponta- neously. Scarpa, Bell, and Cramplon, &c., for gentle ligatures. Mere diminished distension leads aneurisms to subside j—clot only in the way. Why Brasdor’s operation succeeds or fails. How a considerable artery declines with a change of current (clots organizing ?). General doctrine of tensions in health and disease. Ligatures indispensable, or not; other resources. (Medical Gazette, January, May, 1846.) 36. The open states of the ductus arteriosus after birth are caused by obstructed pulmonary artery, or lungs, and narrowings of the aortic orifice, or arch. (London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, July, 1842.) 37. From similar causes also Communications between the two sides of the heart arise. (Two papers, Med. Gaz.> January, 1811.)