FRACTURE. 117 be removed in about a mouth, and passive motion to be then commenced. When there is much swelling at first, the bandaging must be delayed for two or three days; and the arm being gently confined in a straight position, leeches, evaporating lotions, and purgatives, are to be employed with activity proportioned to the severity of the symptoms. Dupuytren used an anterior splint, and what is called the uniting bandage, with a com- press applied above the upper portion. I think we are to conclude that, as soon as we safely may, a nice coaptation is to be ob- tained, with the arm extended, and placed by the side, in bed. A roller to the fore arm, and a nicely padded splint along the front of the whole arm, must be sufficiently secured. The means of drawing down the olecranon need not be very intricate ; but it seems indisputa- ble that they should act as exclusively as pos- sible on the splint and upper edge of the detached process. Absolute inaction of the great triceps is desirable for the first days of the repair, or so long as bony union may be expected. Subsequently, a less restrained state of the muscle, without any direct exercise of it, may be needful to develop a good liga- mentous union. The reader will find these views again touched on, under the head of fractures of the patella Fractures of the coronoid process of the ulna are, in a measure, analogous to those of the olecranon ; but they arc very rare acci- dents. Sir A. Cooper appears to have been the first to describe examples of them. The chief causes appear to be falls on the hand with the elbow-joint nearly extended; by which violent contact of the process with the humerus is produced, and the former be- comes detached. The consequence is, that the olecranon slides back, the arm is more or less extended, and we have the deformity ap- proaching to that of a luxation of the ulna backwards. The reduction of the ulna itself is not difficult; and when it is produced, flexion may be completely effected ; but the deformity is very readily re-produced. The isolated process is felt in front of the joint, or even higher in the arm, controlled by the brachialis muscle, which is inserted into it. There seems to be no reasonable prospect of bony reunion; and, indeed, it must require much care to obtain a tolerably short union of ligament. The best coaptation will, of course, be procured by flexing the joint com- pletely, and retaining it in this position for a considerable time,—about three weeks ; and then, i)y degrees, from day to day, the joint may be extended. I conceive that as soon as the limb can be easily carried in a sling, it should he kept in such a posture and eni|)loycd as much as may be, in order to develop a good and complete ligamentous union before farther extension is attempted ; for wherever the medium of reunion is long, the ulna con- * Sec the ncconnt of the process of remiion hy Hira- ment, ns dcpemling on M/tiiisinn, page .'tfCl. VOI,. II, tinues liable to luxation backwards, or the joint is commensurately enfeebled. Fractures of the radius.—The comparative frequency of fractures of the radius is thus referred to by Baron Dupuytren. Out of 109 fractures brought to the Hotel Dieu, in 1829, 23 were of the fore-arm, 16 of these were of the radius, 5 of both bones, and 2 of the ulna. Out of 97 fractures, in 1830,22 were of the fore-arm, 16 of these being of the radius alone, 4 of both bones, and 2 of the ulna. Fracture of the right radius appears more common than that of the left, for of 97 cases 59 were of the right. Fractures of the radius are by far the most frequent of the accidents that occur to the bones of the fore-arm (see Fore-arm). The radius,as the more outward bone, may be consi- dered as more exposed to common direct vio- lence than the ulna ; but it is also subjected to the violence of falls upon the hand more in- directly received. Its broad articulating sur- face below,—the main support of the hand,— together with a still more unyielding con- nexion with the humerus above, fix this bone in a direct line, to resist almost singly every violence that the fore-arm has to endure between the weight and impetus of the body, impelling the humerus above, and the hand below, which may be fixt, or violently struck, as against the ground, in various distorted positions. The radius, acted on by simple pressure, through its upper and lower articu- lar surfaces, bends until it breaks, somewhere about its middle (transverseh% or obliquely) ; but if the violence be more irregular, or ob- liquely transmitted, we may look for injury in other parts of the bone. It is little liable to fracture superiorly. The ready indicative characters of these accidents are pain, difficult pronation and su- pination, and crepitus and motion of the broken portions, evident to the fingers ap- plied at the part affected, csjiecially when rota- ting movements arc communicated to the wrist. If the fracture happen near the upper end of the radius, its head may be felt, by the thumb, resting under the external condyle of the humerus, and remaining motionless, while the hand is being rotated on the ulna ; the frequent depth of soft parts over this upper portion, however, though the thumb be firmly pressed on the head of the radius while pro- nation and supination of the hand are re- peated, renders the diagnosis both more dif- ficult and painful. Gentle efforts, with slight extension, and varying the situation of the thumb, may detect crc|)itus. The displacement that occurs, is chiefly to bo attributed to the action of tlie pronator muscles, drawing the lower fragment in- wards. Cases of fractures of the lower end of the radius seem to occur at all ages; for, in 14 examples alluded to by Diqniytren ; the ages varied between 8 and 88. In some of the