4 FRACTURE. tures is a simple matter, not demanding mucli ex- pense in time and study to master the knowledge it requires. No man will ever treat fractures well who has not, in the first place, acquired a compe- tent knowledge of the ana- tomy of the bones, espe- cially of the relative situa- tions of those prominent points which can be felt through the soft parts, so that he may at once detect aderangement oftheirna- tural relations; secondly, who is not so accurately acquainted with the at- tachments and actions of the muscles, as to be ena- bled,in any givenfracture, to predict the probable amount of displacing Fig. 3. Fig. 4. Fi'^s. 2, 3, and 4, are intended to show the manner in which nature, left entirely to her own resources, repairs f ractures. Fig 2 is the humerus of a swan, which had been broken about the middle. The figure, which is taken from a preparation in the Royal Collepe oj Surgeons in Ireland, is about the fifth of the size of the pre- varation. The union, which is stronaer tlmn the oriainal cylinder, is effected by dense hone forming two arches (one very strong), separated by the opening, d. The fragments are separated by at least an inch, the shortening is somewhat greater, and the upper and lower portions of the bone form an inconsiderable anale with one another, a The head of the humerus; b, the opemna by which the cavity of the bone communicated with the air-cells; c, tlw cavity of the bone. No attempt has been made to close this, or the corresponding opening, whwh us on the concealed side of the loiver fragment, with callus; d a large foramen in the callus separating the tivo bi'mg arches which unite the fragnwnts; e, the distal eorlrcmily of the bone. Figs 3 4 are the femora of a wild rabbit, one of which had been broken and perfectly untied. The figures are about two thirds the length of the orufinal hones. The shortening is about equivalent to three inches in the adult human femur, and the i trochlea for the pedeUa is slightly turned inwards. In other respects the fracture has been remarkably well repaired; a, a, the heads of the femora ; b, b, the great trochanters; o, c, the lesser trochanters; d, d, the pulley surfaces for the patella; e, the situation of the fracture. force, as well as the direction of the displaced fragments, and, consequently, to form a correct judgment respecting the means to be had recourse to for restoring and main- taining the natural relations of the parts; and, thirdly, who has not acquired manual dexterity in the management of them, by the frequent and careful application of the bandages, splints, and other parts of the appa-- ratusthey require. A knowledge of the parti-- culars just mentioned is requisite for the treat-- ment of the simplest cases, but in those of; a serious nature, as severely complicated: fractures, the practitioner should be able to call up every resource of knowledge, ex-- perience, and tact; for he will have to contend; with the dangers arising from fever of various- kinds and degrees of intensity, according to the nature of the accident, or the constitution of the patient ; with violent spasms in the fractured limb ; with high inflammation and! tumefaction, threatening gangrene, or lead- ing to suppuration ; with matter diffused, orr collected in large and numerous abscesses; with gangrene itself, circumscribed, or extend-- ing to a greater or less portion of the limb ;; with the laceration of the main artery of* the part, rendering it necessary to cut down > upon and secure the vessel, amid.st the con-- fusion of parts occasioned by the effusion of’ blood, or to expose and tie it at some higherr point. Lastly, in cases of the greatest degree: of severity, the surgeon is called upon at the. moment to resolve, and act upon his reply to the question—as difficult and delicate as any. that the whole practice of surgery presents— whether in the case before him, weighing all its circumstances with that true humanity, w’hich will not hesitate to operate where an operation is positively indicated, immediate amputation should be performed, or whether’ the nature of the injury is such as to afford a reasonable hope of preserving both the life, and the limb of the patient, and to justify the surgeon in not having immediate recourse to the knife. The rapid sketch 1 have just given, entitles me, I think, to assert, that there is- no class of cases in surgery, which requires more anatomical knowledge, nicer experience and judgment (medically and surgically), or greater dexterity of manipulation, tlian that of fractures. When we regard the frequency and great: variety of fractures, the different causes which induce them, the numerous and fearful injuries which may attend them ; and when we contem])late the course and the treatment’ and the consequences of fractures and of all their complications, we find a subject, the right comprehension of which cannot be’