G7 Mr.King on the Safety-Valve in Birds. many persons* of the existence of a safety-valve function. The concave solid wall, the wide and attenuated yielding wall, the delicate and extended crescent of distention, with a rather large attachment of distention reaching to near the middle of the yielding wall, all concurring, render it almost doubtful that a true valve was ever intended. The same parts in the heron have certainly less suscepti- bility to dilatation and reflux; and in the cariama likewise, if we may judge from the appearance of the valve; but in this last, the ventricle, being full, is scarcely thicker than the auricle. The ostriches have a broad attachment of distention, with a somewhat limited crescent of distention. The examination of parts of this magnitude, in their uncontracted state, makes the view of a refluent action highly probable. I speak after having seen at least six or seven different specimens. Nothing can be more true and powerful than the valve in tlie contracted ventricle. Beyond the Anseres and Grallae, we meet with a visible declination of the parts wliich belong to the function of reflux. Many of the Gallinaceae, Scansores, and Passerinse, are possessed of very confined valves and ventricles. But whilst studying the negative properties of these, as available, by comparison, to corroborate the inferenees from a looser arrangement, we may discover, in some divisions of these orders, a growing tendency towards the proper characters of a safety-valve f. The structure in the pigeon has sometimes had the ap- pearance of being thus inclined ; but more particularly that in the crow and raven; in which last case, experiment is favourable to the same conclusion. The crescent of distention in many of the Gallinae is greatly diminished; but I had not been prepared for its absence * Perhaps no one would demur, who had once seen the living right ven- tricle of a bird in the two states of distention and relaxation. •f It is very evident, amongst these birds, that a gradual change may be traced in the comparative extent of the cresce7U of distention, and also in the length and width of the attachment of distention. Of course, the insertion of this last will vary according to its length.