2 from cold, &c.;—one, acute or chronic, alternating with another ; with intervals of recovery. Disorganizations, fixed, balanced. 5. Vis medicatiix is modified correlation or compensation. Habit is the like, and no otherwise a principle. Metastasis is when one part is less favourably circumstanced than another. (Vide Disorders Variable, and Practical Inferences hence dedu- cibio r:-: -' ' ip. Rep., No. xi.) d. me rudimentary idea of Irritation (whether as cause or pro- cess of disorder) should vary with the health and constitution,—as when an injured part repairs or inflames, or when acn4 fluctuates. Catarrh, secretory irritation, nutrition, or absorption, occur, accord- ing to the state of the blood. Pain, scald, and extravasated faeces, cause distinct processes. There are no simple sympathies. Worms are mostly harmless. The tongue, nares, skin, anus, gums, cough, &c., indicate chiefly the dispositions of the blood, for nutritions, &c. Epigastric blows, shocks, brain and spine irrita- tions, vomiting, excito-motion, hysteria, and ischuria, when analysed, are evidently compound processes, (Vide Irritation, Med. Gaz., 1843.) 7. See also, Constitutional Irritation, or General Disturbance. (Ibid. 1843-4.) Introductory considerations—a plan of the rela- tion of the animal functions. Humoral agencies and their advo- cates. Varieties of assimilation,—all changes in the blood. The influence of the generative functions, of exercise, of the capillaries, and of the arteries, &c., tending to disease and recovery. 8. How to analyse the varieties of irritation, which depend on the blood, as cachexi®, fevers, and repairs ; also inflammation ; its differences, local and general. (Ibid, Jlajf, 1844.) 9. Organizable (?) deposits are but gro^vths.—Symmetry in disease is hunaoral, &e. We may go far to analyse depression, and sympathies, general and contiguous, &c. (Ibid. June, 1844, two papers.) 10. Local Inflammation not so much a cause as a concomitant of fever; analysis of Louis’morbid anatomy of typhus. JTl}ere_\ j ^re preparatory deteriorations of the body for fevers in every I 1 various gradej_js also for inflammations. (Vide Humoralism in / I Fever, Inflammation, and Irritation, ibid., July, 1844.) 11. The course of foreign bodies shut up in our tissues, or tra- velling, or being discharged, depends much on the bodily health, the state of the blood, &c. (Vide Story of a Grain of Sand, to illustrate the study of Practical Pathology, Prov. Med. Sur. Journal, Aug., 1844.*) BEE THE DOCTRINE OF TENSION (iNFRA.) GENERAL ETIOLOGY AND THERAPIA. 12. Besides the admitted effects of Cold on the bodies of ani- nals and vegetables, and in common chemistry, much remains » A peculiarity in this case was a persistent dry sinus leading to the se- •, '.ded solid, which was finally cast out by the accumulation of skm-scales n the cell.