Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Mammalia. 57 tricle and the limited extent of the right, that the valve of the latter would close well; but the first attempts produced a reflux, wliich, though considerable, was not great for the size of the organ. Waiting, however, about twenty minutes, and then renewing the distention, the valvular action had evidently become much more true. In these two hearts, the complete action of the left valve, and its great power, formed a marked contrast with the function of the tricuspid. Half an ounce of strong tobacco was infused in a pint of water, and the liquid was injected into the jugular vein of a horse. The operation lasted about two minutes ; he stag- gered for near a minute, and fell: his legs were partially secured; but he plunged violently for near ten minutes, breathing fully. Air was now let into both pleurae ; and in about sixteen minutes from the first, all respiratory efforts had ceased: some motion of the heart continued for about another minute. The right side was most prodigiously dis- tended, and the left auricle was also full. Two or three minutes were occupied in removing the heart; and affixing it, by the pulmonary artery, to a large water-cock, the column of water being eighteen inches high, and the diameter of the tube nearly equal to that of the pul- monary artery. Under this pressure, the cavity became full; and the contents escaped as rapidly, without the least dispo- sition to distention. The heart was supported so as carefully to leave the right ventricle unpressed; but now, upon pressing in the situation of the column of distention, so as to carry it inwards, the curtains closed considerably, and the reflux, for so large an organ, was very moderate: at the same time, the ventricle became filled much more firmly. The left ventricle was already contracting permanently. This heart had every appearance of perfect health. Another horse, quite aged, that had eaten nothing for four hours, and but a very little hay for several hours previous, was destroyed with a smaller quantity of a stronger infusion Its struggles were very slight, and it ceased to breathe in about ten minutes. In about fourteen minutes, the heart was exposed: and found very greatly distended on the right side, and without motion. Several minutes elapsed before it could be removed and affixed to the same water-cock as * Four ounces to three pints : about twelve ounces injected.