Mr. King on the Safety- V%lve in Birds. 68 in any, when in the silver pheasant* the anterior attach- ment of the valvular crescent appeared distinctly to cease at the yielding wall, in close proximity, however, with the solid wall. The usual perforation or canal, above the at- tachment of distention, would only admit a bristle. The common pheasant, having a very insignificant cres- cent of distention, evidently approaches this formation: thus the valve is becoming gradually more simple. The conformation of the crescentic valves in various genera of the Accipitres, if admitting any reflux, is certainly opposed to any considerable degrees of the function t. The whole heart seems compact and powerful. The crescent of distention forms nearly a continuous line with the valvular crescent. The first, however, is of good length. The at- tachment of distention is peculiar, in being slight, and some- what lengthened. Its point of connection to the yielding wall is not unfavourable to the production of a slight dis- placement ; and it probably exerts a degree of disturbing influence in certain species. In others, its effect must be little or nothing: indeed, I could anticipate its total oblite- ration, having already found it faded to a thread. Here * Of China. I have examined but one. The resemblances between certain families of birds and quadrupeds are pretty clearly discoverable in the gradation of the safety-valve peculiar to each. It was while studying the part in the rapacious birds that this first struck me. The analogy, however, is most remarkable in the divers of the two classes. M'Leay has arranged five divisions of the Mammalia and of the Birds, in apposition to each other, according to the analogies discoverable between a certain division in the first class and one in the second. In this arrange- ment (as below), I have little hesitation in appending to each two, analogous divisions, a particular degree of safety-valve operation : Degree. Mammalia. Birds. Habit. 1st. . . Glires • . . Rasores . . . Frugivorous. [pletion.) 2d . . . Ferae . . . Raptores . . . Carnivorous ; (indolent in re- 3d . . . Primates . . . Insessores . . . Omnivorous. 4th. . . Ungulata . . . Grallae . . Frequenting watery places. 5th . . . Cetacea . .. Natatores .. . Aquatic. With regard to the degrees 1, 4, and 5,1 am disposed to entertain very little doubt. The present occasion will not allow me to do more than advert to the probable explanation of these differences. It seems to me, that the various habits of individuals, as to feeding and drinking, and the modes of exercise and respiration, may perhaps be sufficient to account for all of them.