FRACTURE. 18 ture. The cellular tissue, says Dupuytren, reddened by the injection of a multitude of small vessels, becomes congested and thick- ened, loses its elasticity, and acquires a remark- able consistence ; sends irregular prolonga- tions into the interstices of the muscles, alters their organization, makes them participate, in whole or in part, in the changes it under- goes, transforms them into a tissue analogous to its own, and unites and confounds them with the periosteum, which has itself become thick- ened by being penetrated by a pretty con- siderable net-work of reddish and very deli- cate vessels. The medullary tissue, broken and ecchymosed, also becomes inflamed, swells, acquires firmness, and afterwards becomes grayish and whitish. The medullary canal is narrowed by the thickening of its membrane, which puts on a reddish aspect, and appears fleshy, in consequence of a sort of gelatinous infiltration. The primitive effusion of blood in this part disappears. A ropy and viscid matter, sometimes ofagelatinous appeai’ance,is poured out between the fragments ; sometimes also there is developed between them a substance, reddish, and, as it were, flocculent, which takes its rise by points of a light red, which grow and become confounded by mutual in- terlacement. This production, the nature of whieh is little known, never acquires any consi- derable thickness or consistence; it unites in- ternally with the medullary membrane, and ex- ternally with the soft parts which are con- gested, and loaded by effusion. It does not exist always ; and then we find only the viscid or gelatinous matter, of which we have spoken. Whether one of them only exist, or whether they exist simultaneously, both appear to play an important part in the production of callus, but of the definitive callus only. The frag- ments lie in the midst of the soft parts loaded with effused matter, transformed into a homo- genous tissue of a lardaceous consistence, and of a reddish colour, which varies in intensity. The tumefaction, in the site of the fracture, neither acquires sufficient consistence, nor sufficient regularity of form, during this first period, to deserve the name of callus. The annexed figure, and the three following, are taken from drawings illustrative of papers in the fourth and sixth numbers of Guy’s Hospital Reports, by Mr. Bransby Cooper, on the repair of simple fracture. The first exhibits the state of the fracture during the first period. 2. The second period extends from the eighth or tenth to the twentieth or twenty-fifth day. In this interval the tumefaction caused by'^the effusion and inflammation diminishes in the soft parts around the fracture, and the muscular fibres, previously obscured by the lymph effused amongst them, recover their distinctive characters ; and by degrees a tu- mour forms, over which the muscles and ten- dons begin to find space and freedom to play, and often groove the tumour where they pass over it. Sometimes a tendon plays in a canal formed in this mass. The callus is now homogeneous, whitish, and firm, equalling, fibro-cartilage in resistance, and grating like Fig. 8. Fig. 8 is taken from Pt. 1, fig. 2, plate 2, of Mr. Braiishy Cooper's paper. “ It exhibits the posterior: view of the femur of a rabbit, seventy-tiuo hours- after the fracture. The hollow of the lower portion of the bone is occupied ivith the remains of a large- coaguhim, intermixed with a deposit of lymph, which had already begun to be organized; red vessels were< shooting into it, in various directions. Lymph, partly: organized, was seen surrounding the bones in const-- derable quantities." it when cut with the knife. Striae of carti- lage, and even of osseous matter, begin to. make their appearance. The medullary mem-- brane, swollen and infiltrated, sometimes obli- terates the canal of the bone extensively, and; Fig. 9. Fig. 9 is taken from Part 1, plate 5, of Mr. Bransby Cooper's paper. “ It displays the dissection ofthe thigh- bone of a rabbit, which had been fractured 192 houn previous to the destruction of the animal. A section lias been made through the callus, so as to present an anterior view of the bone. By this section the uppet fractured portion of the bone has been completely ex- posed, and the periosteum juxrtly removed, so as tc.