101 FRACTURE. sides of the body of the maxilla, the displace- ment is "reater than when one side only is broken ; and this will be still more marked if the fractured surfaces are oblique. The an- terior portion having' lost its support will be depressed and drawn backwards by the mus- cles situated between the chin and the os hyoides. The bones will more or less over- lap each other, and the posterior fragments will be inclined inwards by the action of the pterygoidaei muscles. Other muscles also, losing their fixed points of attachment, will cease to command the movements of the »os hyoides, and a greater difficulty will be expe- rienced in pronunciation and deglutition than in the former accidents. The body of the jaw gives way in a trans- verse direction, or it may be broken obliquely, and then usually the direction of the fracture extends downwards and forwards (or inwards); one or two teeth may be also detached, or even five or six, with a border of aheolus, by an additional line of separation. We may find, but happily very rarely, a good part of the jaw reduced to many fragments. It is evident that the ascending plate is strongest to resist forces applied against the chin, and that the neck of the jaw is the part liable to yield un- der such circumstances. The symptoms of fractures of the lower jaw are generally easy of detection. The patient receives a blow, has fallen on his chin, or his lower jaw has been strongly compressed against the ground by some heavy weight, j such as the wheel of a carriage; he expe- riences extreme pain, and more or less ina- bility to move the part. The inequalities of the fracture are discovered in moving the fingers along the accessible outlines of the bone; the teeth have lost their level, or there is some interruj)tion of the linear regularity of the dental arch. The pieces are move- able ; and when moved, a crepitus is felt in most cases. As we have seen, the fracture is usually made open by the laceration of the soft parts. Fractures of the rami or of the condyles produce pain in front of the cheek or cur, especially during the motion of the jaw, which may also produce a cro|)itus. Jn a frac- ture of the neck there is a slight depression over the site of the condyle, which is drawn inwards. An ordinary case of fracture of the lower jaw is never in itself alarming; indeed it is only on account of serious complications or unusual consequences, that any case can be- come dangerous. The nervous irritations, sympathies, swellings, and salivations for- merly irri|)iited specifically to such injuries are now unheeded. With occasional exceptions, as we have described, the treatment of fractures of the lower jaw is not difficult. The reduction is readily effected ; and between the resistance of the teeth of the upper jaw, and the equal ])ressure of ap[)uratus beneath the lower, the : jiurls may be ke|)t in good apposition ; but the nice adaptation and careful retention of the bandages requires some skill and constant attention. A layer of cork or india-rubber may be placed between the upper and lower teeth, and then a firm surface is afforded, against which, as a natural splint, the fragments may be confined in situ. A four-tailed bandage (see Fig. 149, article Bandage) is to support the jaw. A pad may be applied on one side of the jaw, to prevent lateral displacement ; and if the horizontal part of the jaw be divided on both sides, and the parts incline inwards, a good compress behind the chin may remedy the deformity ; or, at least, prevent the ill effects that the bandage might produce, by pressing the fore part of the bone in a back- ward direction, to which it is too much in- clined by the action of the muscles. In such a case it would be desirable to take some pains in moulding on the part a splint of pasteboard; or, what takes the form more accurately, several layers of thick paper, pasted together. When this has become dry and hard, a layer of lint or wadding may be interposed between it and the skin, to pre- vent the unpleasant effects of friction, and to produce greater pressure on any spot where it may be required. If the teeth near to the place of fracture remain firm in their sockets, and sufficient space intervene between them to allow of the passage of a piece of silk or wire, they may with advantage be tied toge- ther ; and in the cure of double fracture, some advantage might be derived from wiring or tying together, one or two corresponding teeth in each jaw, so as to prevent the backward and lateral displacement, as well as the down- ward ; but the last can be equally well prevented by pressure from below. What- ever method be adopted of fixing the frac- tured bones, talking must be avoided ; and all the food must be taken in a fluid form, and sucked between the lips and teeth into the mouth. It has been recommended to intro- duce liquids, with a gum-elastic tube through the nostrils. In a case of severe contusion such a practice might possibly be advanta- geous ; but it will seldom be required, and generally it will be far more agreeable to the patient to take them altogether through the natural channel. If the contusion occasioned by the striking body be great, as is usually the case, the abstraction of blood by leeches, and the up])li- cation of an evaporating lotion, will tend to allay pain, and ])rcvent effusion and tumefac- tion. If it be only slight, such applications will be unnecessary, and should not be used ; es])ecially the leeches, which rather increase the liability to an attack of erysipelas. As regards the adjustment, posture is not to be neglected, when there is any dilficulty in maintaining coa])tation. Placing the patient in bed on his buck, with the head raised so as to depress the chin considerably, relaxing all the muscles connected with the os hyoides, will materially facililate the ap])lication of II