Mr.King on the Safety-Valve Function 4 the veins to the right side of the heart, it would be neces- sary to explain a variety of influences which are not immediately connected with the present topic: it must there- fore suffice to advert to each of these, without attempting to determine their value. In some parts of the body, the force of gravitation returns the blood to the heart; and it might seem, that elsewhere, as in the legs, the downward pressure of an arterial column serves to weigh against the inert column in the corre- sponding veins. But the most persistant and important power of the venous circulation that we have to consider, consists in a pulsatile wave derived from or through the capillary system. When the body is at rest in the horizontal position, what are the means by which the veins transmit their contents, from all the extreme parts, to the centre of the circulation ? To this inquiry I should not hesitate to reply. That the chief force is the ventricular impulse, propagated, through the arterial tubes and the capillaries, into the veins of every part*. The impulse which extends from the left ventricle to the fingers of the upraised hand, and is thus adequate to main- tain the capillary circulation under such disadvantageous circumstances, will surely be competent to a more extended effect, when all parts of the body are placed on the same level, and freed from all extraneous influences, whether of a disturbing character or of a different kindt. * It has been affirmed, that some propulsive power resides in the capil- lary vessels, but I am not aware of any sufficient testimony to this state- ment : yet I would not absolutely deny to these vessels an operation similar to that of the heart, namely, a passive diastole under the influx from the arteries, and an active subsequent systole, together with an apparatus tantamount to valves, by which the onward current of the circulation is sustained. An endowment of this nature might suffice to explain the varying degrees of distention and activity natural to the capillaries in health and in disease. In many vascular parts, common size injection passes readily from the veins into the arteries ; which is a fact much opposed to the idea of a valvular action in the capillaries. We cannot positively deny to the capil- laries a propulsive peristaltic or vermicular action, but yet it seems almost inadmissible. •f- When the hand is extended above the head, pulsations may still be per- ceived in the fingers ; and the veins, if obstructed by ligature, will still become