in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 7 whether each venous dilatation belonged rather to the pre- ceding than the succeeding radial beat, when the pulses were full and scarcely 60 in the minute. By the same means, the veins of the leg and foot have also been seen to pulsate, though less forcibly. My friend Dr. Foville, who recently visited London, witnessed the repetition of some of these experiments ; and was desirous to have the jugular vein examined in this manner, though we were both alive to the difficulties which the site of this vessel might present. The Doctor was upon very moderate diet, on account of indisposition ; and his circulation being very tranquil, in the evening, he very calmly laid himself across a table, and, after about a minute’s repose, when no perceptible motion affected the vein, the sphygmometer was applied rather above the middle of the neck, the vein being full and of a large size. The motion that it received was the same steady rise which we thought characteristic of the venous pulse, without quickness, and without tremor. There may be some who will continue to hold, that the collateral arterial impulse is a more probable source of this pulsation than the continuity of a capillary wave. To such, I would again point out the difference of the pulses, as to time, force, and duration; and also remind them, that the influence is communicated to the instrument when it is accurately affixed upon a vein, but not when it is applied to any other part. With respect, however, to the influence of the larger arteries upon adjoining veins, I cannot doubt that it is con- siderable. And when the arterial impulse operates collate- rally upon such vessels as the vena? comites, which are so numerous and closely bound about the arteries and copiously supplied with valves, I suppose that there is not a more efficient force of circulation in the veins, particularly in the legs when they are erect and motionless*. I may also * When gravitation tends to distend these veins, the compressions afforded by muscles and skin in repeated movements being absent, the valves ■would be left unemployed, were it not that the well-applied impulse of the beating artery tends always to empty the valvular interspaces, and produce a current towards the right auricle. It must be admitted, that the capillary