Mr. King on the Sofety-Valve in Mammalia. 44 garoo, and the opossum*, all of which have apparently three columns of distention; and of these, the anterior has an increased relative size, at least in the two first animals. Their moderator hand is a cord inserted into the very base of the column, and is double at its external attachment. The bear has a construction like the preceding: its columns are three or four, and the anterior is larger. The moderator hand is a slight cord, divided externally, but inserted into the column immediately above its basef. The dog’s heart is very little in advance of the last in the scale; and that of the fox is probably even less so. In an Australian dog, I found the anterior column divided at its base into two equal insertions; one of which was on the yielding wall, and was peculiarly remarkable for the traction which had manifestly been exerted upon it by an old and partial pericarditic adhesion | at this point. In another dog§, the second column was found bifurcated, and attached in a similar manner. Both these circumstances are probably very unusual I]. The squirrel and Guinea-pig plainly belong to this series ; but it is not easy to determine their place. Likewise the porcupine; but in this case, the two chief columns of disten- tion, or the first only, may be met with in a degree of evolution almost equal to that of the succeeding series. The mole, the stoat, and the ichneumon, seem to form the last of this series, closely approaching those of the next, in the structures under investigation. In their hearts, the an- terior column of distention is long, extending to near the limits of the cavity. The moderator hand (a cord only) is attached to its body and both walls of the ventricle^: the second column seems advancing towards a similar development. Of these, the ichneumon appears to possess the more de- veloped columns. The hedgehog much resembles these, with respect to the structure in question. * Didelphis Vulpina. -|- See Diagram 4. PI. 2. f. :j: A patch of pericarditic thickening on this spot is found in a majority of human adult hearts : it seems to be a part peculiarly liable to distention and attrition. § A Spaniel.—Two greyhounds (male and female) presented hearts pe- culiar only for great massiveness. II In both of these, experiment shewed the valve to act very imperfectly: in the first, some days after death ; and in the second, whilst still alive. See Diagram 5. PI. 2.