38. Cases of Cerebral Aneurism. (Medical Quarterly Review, 1834.) Aorta and Pulmonary Artery Transposed, (London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal, January, 1844.) 39. The left bronchus flattened by dilatation of the left auricle. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, No. 6.) 40. The nature and treatment of Angina pectoris illustrated by considering the physiology of violent circulation; the influences of repletion, senile changes of the heart, and of its valves; their surfaces of contact perforated or shrunken. Different states of different parts explain varieties of the disease. The pains shown to be of various kinds, and the distresses. 41. Palpitation of either ventricle alone, or of both—over-full, and labouring, with or vdthout hypertrophy. The cause, fulness, debility, or passing disorder of health, &c. See the treatment of Dyspncea, infra. (Four papers. Medical Gazette, 1841.) Simple vascular growths confined to the left auricle ? Cases— No capillary formations in the aorta or its ventricle. Adherent pericardium harmless. Statistics — Rationale of variable cardiac obstruction. (Lancet, 1845.) RESPIRATORY DISORDERS, &C, 42. The bifurcations of bronchi are kept open by crescent-car- tilages. (Dr. Horner and Mr. J. King, Guy’s Hospital Reports, No. 11.) 43. Dyspncea to be analysed. Derangements increasing with age ; inspiratory effort and fatigue ; besoin de respirer ; suffoca- tion; causes of dyspnoea various; the base of lungs partly in reserve; the effects of congestion, posture, repletion, exertion, cold, spasm (.p), often combined; dyspnoea, with malformed hearts or bronchial obstructions. Here, and in angina, we see the mechanisms, the humours, and the nerves deranged, and remedies must unite a like triple application. Medical Gazette, 1841. 44. Summer Asthma, catarrhus aestivus, or hay-fever—general disturbance, with local obstruction, capillary, &c. Many ana- logous affections. (Medical Gazette, August, 1843.) Sources of haemoptysis, various and special. (Ibid., 1843.) PERFECTIVE ASSIMILATION, THYROID, CANCER. 45. The thyroid gland, composed of cells, arranged in flat lobules, irregularly conapressed on the trachoea in deglutition, &c., secretes albumen, which is seen to pass away by the lymphatics. (Comparative Anatomy, &c., T. W. King, and Sir A. Cooper, Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1836.) The doctrine of perfective assimilation, by spleen, thymus, lym- phatic glands, &.c. (Ibid.) Cancels. Of females dying about forty-four, near one half have some cancer. Of males, one eighth. Late in life, still more. Species of cancers—different stages of constitution. Tables, &c. (Medical Gazette, August, 1845. Medical Times, March, 1816.)