9 Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. except iu the great end, where it was healthy. The stomach had performed its function to the last, and the fcEces proved that the food had been properly digested.” The fact, that the effects of digestion are most considerable and most constantly produced in the left end of the stomach, is, of course, the fii'st great corroboration of the opinion here contended for; but that which had the most force on my own mind, was that of the appearance of a remai'.kably distinct boundary line, dividing the lining of the stomach, nearly per- pendicularly, a little to the right of the oesophageal opening. This line is not very uncommon; and at times, though more rarely, it is very distinct, as we have good evidence to shew in the Museum. (See Preparations 1802^^ and 1802^^.) It is, however, variable enough in site and extent, as some subse- quent examples will shew. It is sufficiently evident, too, that this line depends on the same causes, and, when apparent, follows similar proportions to the local softening, which it serves to separate from the un- altered mucous membrane. I do not conclude that this mark is the boundary between the part which secretes the gastric solvent and that which does not, for it is rather too irregular in situation; but it is pro- bably true, that the solvent is never produced beyond it; or, at least, that whenever any partial digestion of the gastric lining ocurs to the right of the line, or the ordinary situation of it, the result depends on the casual passage of the proper secretion of the cul-de-sac into the right half of the cavity. This part, which appears most follicular, and most coated with solid mucus, is never alone found dissolved; but when affected, it is very partially so, and always in conjunction with, and in a less degi*ee than the left end. Observation, however, may safely go a little farther than this. It must, at least, be gene- rally true, that on the right half of the stomach, as in the oesophagus, whenever a part is dissolved, it is always in such a situation as to be explained by the peculiar folding or position of the lining by which it has been exposed to the secretion from the left end of the cavity. Besides the alteration in the left end, we may see a single patch denuded, or several longi- tudinal bands converging towards the pylorus, which have been the most projecting surfaces of rugae, &c., iti the partially- c 2