FRACTURE, 77 its middle part, at the end of eight months. The patient was greatly reduced from want of nourishment, she having subsisted for some time upon six ounces of bread, with water, per diem. Supposing want of union to de- pend upon insufficient nourishment, the patient w'as placed upon a good diet, and about six weeks afterwards union of the frac- tured bones was perfect. Beckett relates the case of a patient, setat. 23, with fractured os humeri, in whom the loss of a large quantity of blood, and the denying him a competent sustenance prevented re-union till the end of nine months ( Chirurgical Observations, p. 16). A case in which want of union may perhaps be attributed to slim diet together with repeated bleedings, is given by Dr. Hewson (North American Journ. for Jan. 1828, p. 11). This patient was admitted into the Pennsyl- vania Hospital, in March, 1827, on account of an imperfect union of the tibia near its cen- tre. In August, 1818, both bones of the leg were broken. He was subjected to a severe antiphlogistic treatment and lost seve- ral pounds of blood. It was not until six weeks after the accident that he was allowed any portion of animal food. Other striking illustrations of the effect of an altered mode of living, may be found in the Medico-Chi- rurgical Review for January, 1836. Mr. Wilson,formerly professor of the Royal College of Surgeons in London, used to re- late an impressive instance of the influence of constitution upon the powers of reparation. A woman accustomed to drink spirits suf- fered a fracture of the leg, and was deprived for a while of her habitual stimulus ; but no repair of the bone went on, until her wonted and necessary support was had recourse to, and then she rapidly recovered. “ The influence of low diet, long continued, up6n the jiarts interested in compound frac- tures, must have been noticed by all sur- geons, and the good effect produced in such cases by an increased diet, and the allowance of an accustomed stimulus, as well in causing the more ra])id deposit of callus, as in im- proving the state of the wound, have boon observed. That the large abstraction of blood alone will not prevent the formation of callus, is well seen in the following cases. “Isaac Yorkc, setat. 19, was admitted into the Pennsylvania Hospital, October .5th, 1801, for fracture of the right thigh. His accident had happened one week previously to his admission, during which time he had been delirious, and had uudergoue five bleed- ings, in all amounting to one hundred and two ounces. He continued to do well until the 7th, when his delirium returned, and l)etwcen this date and the 15th, he was bled at different times to the amount of ninety ounces, itiaking in all one hundred and ninety-two ounces ; from the 15th he recovered ra])idly, and was discharged from the hospital January 13th, 1802. “.las. Orr,a:fat. .32, was admitted May 16th, 1804, for compound fracture of the leg, two inches above the ankle, and injury of his thorax. Great pain and difficulty of breath- ing follow'ed the accident, to relieve which he lost thirty ounces of blood in the first tw-enty- four hours following it. On the 20th, deli- rium set in, and in the two following days sixry-two ounces more of blood were taken from him, making in all ninety ounces; after this his symptoms abated, and he recovered rapidly.” (Penn. Hos. Case-Book, i. pp. 27, 31.) Deficiency of nervous influence has been supposed, on very feeble grounds, to be a cause of non-union. An instance is men- tioned by Mr. Travers (Further Inquiry, &c. p. 436), “ in w hich union failed to proceed after a fracture of the leg that was paralyzed from fracture of the lumbar vertebrae, although the humerus, broken at the same time, united perfectly in the usual period. Mr. Tuson notices a case of paralysis of the low'er part of the body from injury of the spine, accom- panied by fracture of the fibula and disloca- tion of the shoulder joint, in which the frac- ture of the fibula, the leg being paralyzed, did not reunite, nor did there appear any reaction about the parts to effect it; whilst the capsular ligament of the shoulder joint, which was not paralyzed, did unite and was scarcely perceptible (On the Spine, p. 254). Mr. Benjamin Philips (Lend. Med. Gaz. for May, 1840, p. 327) has seen a case in which the same injury that fractured a man’s leg injured the low’er part of the spine ; he lived five weeks, but there had been no effort at reparation. Diminished nervous influence will not, how'ever, in all instances, hinder the formation of callus, as is shown by a case recorded by Mr. Busk (Lond. Med. Gaz. for April, 1840, p. 97), of a gentleman, aetat. 65, who had been more or less paralytic for upwards of twenty j'ears, for the last twelve or fourteen of which he had been .completely deprived of all power of motion and sensa- tion from the loins dowmwards, who fractured his left leg below the middle, and in whom, at the end of five weeks, the bones had firmly united.” CiUling off the direct tnipply of blood to an extremity by ligature of the itrincipal arterial trunk, might d priori be supposed sufficient to retard union after fracture. This, however, does not seem always to exert a marked iii- fluenee upon the itrocess. Petit (Mai. des Os, quoted from the thesis of Bcrard, p. 27) men- tions a fractured leg, accompanied by rujiture of the anterior tibial artery, in w’hich union was effected in the usual way. In the Sur- gical Essays of Mr. Bransby Cooper is a case of fractured femur accompanied with injury to the popliteal artery, where, although* the femoral was taken uj), the fracture was soundly united in six weeks. In a case, however, of a similar kind, reported by Du|)uytrcn (Lcyons Oralcs, iv. 618), the work of'consolidation went on slowly, the nutrition being weakened ill the limb by the ligature of the artery. At the end of the first month, the callus had