50 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. a little wall, parallel to the inner face of the yielding wall, and having the cords inserted into its upper edge. This edge consists of a little chain of nipples—the disunited summits of two or more columns, each drawing outwards in nearly an equal degree. The most remarkable form of a moderator hand is that in which this part is inserted close before the base of the com- j)ound column of distention; the opposite attachment being beneath the most anterior of the fixed cords on the solid wall In this case, the hand is muscular and cylindrical, but long and slight. It is very yielding, and seems to possess a peculiar elasticity. It is already declining in efficiency. It is evident that it can least control the more posterior parts of the column of distention. In the transition through which the band may be traced in this series of animals, it either gradually wastes, or slowly removes itself; and becomes more short and muscular, till it is nearly lost in the anterior and inferior junction of the two walls *. Now here, where the simple effect of distention is greatest, the moderator hand is ceasing to have any distinct office; and thus we found it circumstanced in the first gradations, where the columns of distention were immoveable, and the moderator hand a mere thread. I have taken the parts in the sheep and goat as typical of the present series. See Fig. 3. PI. 2. The column of distention has, perhaps, a greater propor- tional development, as to width, in the first; the cords, as well as the original number of pillars (now united), being increased; and also, as I presume, the liability to valvular displacement. The gazelle resembles the goat; but its moderator hand is manifestly leaving the column of distention. With it are the harnessed antelope and axis-deer, according to my specimens. The rein-deer possesses the compound column of distention in the greatest development, in breadth as well as in the number of cords and muscular points or nipples; but its moderator band has its insertion still more inferiorly than in the gazelle. The ox has for a column of distention a short kind of mastoid process, over which the cords have scattered * In describing the relative position of parts, I have generally regarded their analogy to the human structures.