6 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function to observe it, I cannot suppose the statement liable to ob- jection. I proceed to further evidence. It is not long since it occurred to me, that an instrument of sufficient delicacy might detect similar venous pulsations elsewhere. A fine capillary lever, with a long index ra- dius, seemed at once to afford all that was necessary. I drew out such a thread in black sealing-wax, about two inches long; and, with a little tallow, fixed this across a vein on the back of my hand, so that nine-tenths of its length might project on one side of the vein, the power of wliich was thus applied very near to the fixed extremity. In this manner, with the precaution of keeping the vein moderately distended, the movement became very manifest, especially under circumstances of repletion: the little index point slowly rose, and fell with, or possibly a little later, than each radial pulsation. I have reason to think, how- ever, that, in my own person, a very few hours’ fasting destroys this phsenornenon, as far as it is appreciable by the means described. The action of tliis little sphygmometer has been wit- nessed by many ; and I scarcely think that any exception can be fairly made to its application, to prove the existence of a pulse or undulating current in the veins. Applied to an artery, it plays freely and quickly: on a vein, its movement is very steady, and only visible when neatly adapted; whilst if applied to any other part, no motion is produced. In all parts of the arm I have found it indicate a distinct pulse. In some veins, which, by a semi-rotation of the hand may be placed either in front or posteriorly, the effect has been the same in both cases*. On the hand, it is not easy to feel confident that the venous and arterial pulses are not syn- chronous ; but with the sphygmometer applied to a small superficial vein over the head of the radius, a slow rise was seen very manifestly later than the quick radial pulse of the same arm; indeed, it was not quite certain to the mind, * This examination of the pulse of the same vein in different^positions was intended to meet the suspicion, that an adjacent artery might be the cause of the motion.