Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. 41 on the contrary, it must he sufficiently apparent, that the more the columns of distention are secured away from the solid wall, and near to the yielding ivall, so much the more is the influence of distention left to operate freely in dis- placing the valves, and producing, reflux. Fftst, then, in certain instances it is found that the curtain of distention, or all that portion of valve attached to the outer edge of the right auriculo-ventricular foramen, is secured by numerous cords attached about its floating edge ; and that these cords are collected into the summits of two or more muscular columns, which are inserted into the solid wall, and therefore totally unafiected by any dis- placement of the outer wall. (See PI. 2. Diagr. 1. Column 1; and Fig. 1.) In the second place, or stage of progressive develop- ment, we may suppose the columns of distention inserted into the transverse moderator band, near the solid wall: in winch case, they can be but slightly affected by the move- ments of the yielding wall. (See PI. 2. Diagr. 1. Col. 2. & Fig. 2.) Thirdly, the columns are inserted into the same band, at a greater distance from the solid wall; and consequently more subject to the influence of distention ; which, acting on the yielding wall, extends the moderator hand, and carries out the apparatus of distention. (See PI. 2. Diagr. 1. Col. 3: and PI. 1. Fig. 1.) Lastly, the columns of distention are inserted into the yielding wall, at or beyond the corresponding attachment of the moderator hand: in which case, the results of distention are still more considerable. (See PI. 2. Diagr. 1. Col. 4 ; & Fig. 3.) The healthy dilatation of the right ventricle must of course result from the limited strength of the yielding wall: and it is necessary here to remark, that the thickness of this part (most fairly estimated by comparison with the left) seems to vary considerably, both in quadrupeds and birds. Other elements of an imperfect or safety-valve, which have been distinguished in the human heart, are also found to perform their part in the general animal series; namely, the form of the columns, the proportional extent of curtain, and the yielding nature of the auriculo-ventricular foramen, whose resistance, in all probability, is in equal proportion to that of the yielding wall.