148 FRACTURE. course be devoid of. His method set the muscles in action too earlj', and deprived him of the advantage of completely hexing the knee; and also probably of the first contrac- tion which the living infiammatory formation had to undergo, and to which the most re- laxed (or elongated) and quiescent state of muscle is most favourable. Although the case cannot be said to have been one of much consequence, j'ct his plan tended to produce a longer medium of union than might have been obtained. It may be thought that experiments are still requisite to establish the doctrine here maintained ; and although I conceive the various facts which might be adduced are sufficiently corroborative of the principle, I can readily suppose that new and varied illus- tration of it cannot fail to make it more clear and efficient in practical application. To divide one tendinous head of a biceps, and the tendon of the same muscle near its inser- tion, in the same animals, thus leaving the process of repair, in the last instance, subject to muscular tension, and in the first, free from such influence, for about eight or sixteen days, would be an interesting test of the difference in the two cases : but, for my own part, I should examine the result of the experiment much less to seek a proof of my opinion, than to discover additional facts connected with it. Upon the foregoing principles, 1 conceive the future object of practice must be decidedly different to that of our former rules. It is doubtless a fortunate circumstance that in many cases, as in that of a fractured patella, surgeons have not been more completely able to exclude the action of the extensors ; but I do not doubt that they have done enough to render many a ligamentous union feeble, and altogether unable to resist the sudden and ungraduated action of the extensors. It seems to me not unworthy of record, that in the case of fracture of the patella. Sir W. Blizard maintained that bandages to con- fine the fragments were worse than useless ; and he constantly limited his treatment to the use of antiphlogistics, and the maintenance of the straight position of the limb. The first object should be to obtain as close an union of the bone, or tendon as circum- stances will allow of. Secondly, within about three weeks (supposing the hope of ossific union to be given up) the part should be left under the influence ofits muscles, in the slight- est degree ; and by slow degrees, while the new formation has time, and every other pos- sible facility given it, to be duly nourished, the tension which excites its development is to be progressively increased, rhirdly, it should be but very gradually, increasing from day to day, that the active motions of the part are brought into operation. After the patient, if an adult, had been five weeks confined. Sir A. Cooper allowed a little passive motion to be commenced, and daily^ increased in a gentle manner until flexion of the knee was quite restored : when the pa- tient^ was advanced in years, an addition week’s extension was persevered in. The former remarks on uniting ligamei should., I think, modify the last rules : for und favourable circumstances of coaptation ai constitution, five weeks may be too long period to leave the parts deprived of all°e tension. There is, however, less harm to 1 done by delay, than by precipitancy. Within: month, I conceive, the fragments may be le- unconstrained ; in four or five days more, tl splint, with the foot, may be lowered by dai .. degrees, and then removed ; for a day or tw' the limb may be moved about in the be . without having recourse to flexion ; and it w be well that all considerable flexion of tl i knee be as long delayed as possible. It is said, with the method of treatmen hitherto adopted, that when flexion of tl i knee is too early had recourse to, the unitir substance is apt to yield and become length ened. Under the fear of such an occurrence Boyer allowed two months to expire befor he suffered flexion to be employed. If the ligLi mentous uniting substance should prove Ion;. and the power of the e.xtensor muscles ovc- the leg very tardily regained, .Tohn Hunter an others direct, that the patient may sit for while daily on a table, with the knee bent ov( ■ its edge, and thus exercise and raise the limb, having an increased weight (as of lead), a.;i tached to the foot, as the capability of exter sion increases. I should be averse to th i practice if it might be avoided ; and I ar. further of opinion that it is far better to st, cure a straight splint gently behind the kne < and let the patient go about, thus to exercis- the muscles, with a straight leg for weeks. Finally, however, it may be by extrem flexion only that the extensors can be excite or enabled to act. Mr. Hunter thus ej presses himself:— “ I called with a friend to pa.ss a day c * two with a family in the country. The lad of the house had had her knee fractured, an had been treated according to the maxims tli surgeon had learned while attending the Loi don hospitals ; which, at that time, were t leave the whole unconfined, and take no mes! sures to bring the portions of bone togethe:' She recovered from the accident, but wf totally unable to use the limb, and had to b moved about in a chair. Her leg was mad to swing backwards and forwards as she st ■ on a high table or chair; but still she had n power of contracting the rectus muscle, an ■ as soon as the force that gave the motio ceased, the motion ceased with it. It was nc until several years after the accident that saw her ; and having spent a whole night i i considering the probable cause of her loss c power, it appeared to me that the spaee be tween the two attachments of the rectus bcin much shortened, while the muscle continue of the same length, the utmost degree t its contraction would scarcely be able t straigliten itself, much less move the jiatell and leg also. I advised her to sit as before