Mr. King's Case of Disease in the Foetus. 8 We may well imagine that the modified means of nourish- ment, and restrained functions of foetal life, should require a less complete, or considerable urinary excretion: and the copious cutaneous elimination may compensate for tliis whilst its sebaceous nature may serve to shield the delicate surface of the body from whatever is offensive in the waters of the amnion. statements are given by Berzelius, without reference to the period of gesta- tion. Frommherz and Gagert discovered, besides animal substance, ammonia, and benzoic acid, and, as they think, urea ; and also muriate, phosphate, sulphate, and carbonate of soda, sulphate of lime, and salts of potash. According to Dr. Prout, the amniotic fluid of the cow, in the early part of gestation, contains. Water 97.70 Albumen 0.26 Alcoholic extract and lactates . . 1,66 Watery extract, sugar of milk, and salts .■ 0.38 100. This examination would indicate, as Berzelius remarks, that this fluid is a source of nourishment to the foetus. The fluid in the allantois of the cow, that is,” says Berzelius, the urine of the foetal calf, has a sp. g. between 1.003 and 1.0295 (varying still more, perhaps, according to the age of the foetus). It no longer contains any con- siderable quantity of albumen; but it aflfords the extractive matter, and the salts of urine, with a peculiar acid, the allantoic, which was the discovery of Vauquelin {Traite de Chimie, par J. J. Berzelius, traduite par Esslinger. Paris.) It is not unworthy of attention—if the Wolffian bodies are possessed of different canals in connection with the genito-urinary passages, as has been supposed—that the obstruction of these passages produced no apparent impediment to the absorption of those provisional foetal organs. We might regard this fact, if it shall be corroborated, as indicating rather that the bodies in question are analogous to those which have no excretory canal, but lymphatic vessels; and which are, in truth, organs of perfective assimilation ; as, the thyroid and thymic glands. t