FRACTURE. 138 50. Fracture at the rout of the cervixfetmris, with u. degree of impaction of this part between the trochanters. The union in this case was hy a feeble ligamentous ma- terial, but adjacent parts of the shafi only were encrusted with a little new bone, hi si- milar cases there is generally good bony re- pair, blit sometimes on- ly ligamentous union, and not less frequently there is found a cavity almost devoid of repa- ration. another laid transversely beneath the knee, to keep the limb easily bent, is the treat- ment adojited b}' Sir Astley Cooper; the pa- tient, in a fortnight or three weeks, is per- mitted to sit in a high chair; and exercise with crutches is allowed soon afterwards. A stick is substituted for the crutches after a time, and the shortness of the limb is compensated for, when the treatment is considered com- ])lete, by a sole to the shoe of the necessary thickness. Dupuytren considers one hundred or one hundred and forty days necessary to the due consolidation of the fracture, supposing the case admits of it. We cannot but ])crceive, that confinement for this period must injure the health, and that restriction about the joint must cause wasting; and, at the best, the ulti- mate deformity is not likely to be materially diminished by the most rigid apposition. Finally, 1 would express a hope, that the general views contained in this essay, as to the use of motion and tension in exciting repair, will, in the present cases and in many others, tend to modify the severe restraints which arc commonly recommended. Fractures external to the capsule. Fractures at the very base of the cervix fc- vioris, are only less frequent than those within the capsule. It is often difficult to distinguish the first from the last. It is common to meet with the neck somewhat driven into the shaft, or into the cancelli of the great trochanter* : ' It is commonly and truly said, that the neck is thus embedded in these eases, but the part of thecervLx in this case there is a full half-inch of short-- ening, considerable diminution of the round-- ness, and sometimes of the mobility of ther hip, eversion, and great pain over the part,. especially in moving it. This is more parti-- cularly an accident of persons under fifty, and I generally the force producing it is great. Crepitus is very readily discoverable. Much i contusion, extravasation, inflammation, andl delay belong also to these cases, and they become, in a manner, diagnostic. In the old, they are sometimes followed by fatal fever. Occasionally, the shortening, impaction, andl want of crepitus and mobility, approach, in i degree, to the effects produced when the head is driven through the acetabulum. Fractures of the neck of the femur outside ■ the capsule, were treated by Sir A. Cooper with the double inclined plane ; the patient being j)laced on his back, and the limb in a bent posture. A long splint applied to the outer side of the injured thigh, is then fastened to the pelvis by a strong leather strap, so as • to ))ress one portion of the bone against the other ; the lower end being also secured by a strap to the outside of the knee, dhis po- sition is continued for eight weeks, when the ])atient may leave his bed, should the attempt not jjrove too painful; but the splint is still to be employed for another fortnight. Duj)uytrcn did not resort to lengthened or fi.xed extension. Under his treatment, the patient was first laid upon his back with the s most deeply thrust in, is usually that which is next to the trochanter minor, so that the head of the bone is ^ bent considerably downwards.