Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. 46 their insertion occasionally into the yielding wall, together with their increased freedom from the .solid wall, and aug- mented subjection to the movements of the yielding wall, through their connection with the moderator hand. .All this is superadded to the actual imperfection of the valve, or the yielding nature of its opening*. The feline animals seem to be the first in this series. The cat has one considerable column of distention, based near the yielding wall, and traversed by the moderator hand, wliich adheres to it, and confines it within a short range of the solid wall-ic. In the same animal, I have seen the second column also inclining to this disposition. The valve of the gennet cat strictly resembles that of our domestic animal. In the yaguarundi, the anterior column is perhaps still more confined. The burrowing marsupial wombat seems to be analogous to these last, rather than to the kangaroos, as relates to its safety-valve. The ocelot offers one increased degree of enlargement of the moderator hand, and freedom of the anterior column, without any other visible alteration. The leopard has the anterior column still more free; and the second column is lengthened, and a good deal more free than the corresponding pillar in the preceding animals, as if loosening itself from the solid wall. (See columns 1 and 2. Diagr. 6. PI. 2.) The lemur ]: probably belongs to this series: its first column has, however, less freedom even than that of the cat, the moderator hand being, externally, very slight; but the second column is considerable, and seems almost exclusively to belong to the yielding wall. EXPERIMENTS. A nearly full-grown cat, having expired two days pre- viously in convulsions, without any assignable cause, its heart was found apparently healthy: the right side was not full, but less contracted than the left. On injecting this heart from the aorta and pulmonary arteiy, the mitral valve closed firmly; and the tricuspid admitted a very free refluent stream, without any force. * See column 2. Diagram 1. PI. 2 ; and Fig. 2. PI. 2. f As column 2. Diagram 1. PI. 2. ^ J I'lie individual was not known. I