() Mr. King on Disorders which are Variable ; sided, are liable to be renewed. Parts considerably disor- ganized may admit of fresh disturbance and further change; but their acquired states are otherwise generally permanent; at least, there are numberless instances of these kinds; and to these my observations may be restricted. In studying the common traits even of the majority of diseases, the cha- racter which I have endeavoured to establish will continually enforce attention; and most of all, perhaps, in relation to many different chronic diseases; for it will appear, that it is their remarkable and almost constantly distinguishing fea- ture, that they evince a tendency, and often repeated efforts, towards reparation or subsidence, with occasional relapses from temporary deranging causes. Sometimes, as it is said, the disease wears itself out; that is, the restorative efforts gain the ascendancy often by judicious treatment, or merely from the absence of deranging influence, but especially at certain periods of life: and, in truth, so great an effect does age produce, that the cases in question would now and then appear to be restored without the concurrence of other fa- vourable causes: but this is only an appearance, not a reality, as we may hereafter find. As examples of reparative kinds of chronic affections, many ulcers might be adduced; and particularly the erratic (healing on one side, and extending on the other); and also numerous variable painful and dyspeptic disorders. Nothing, I suppose, can be much more certain, than that we every now and then observe some instances of continued derange- ment, or even of disorganization, which, if it do not actually become repaired, presents at least a manifest degree of im- provement ; and, notwithstanding, frequently goes on, to the ultimate destruction of life. Sometimes an extremely similar state proceeds, xminterruptedly, to a fatal conclusion. Oc- casionally, too, we may see the less promising case happily cured; whilst, on the other hand, that which may justly have been deemed favourable, proves,’ even in the ablest hands, ultimately destructive. But that almost all cases of the kind alluded to seem to admit of remedy or considerable pallia- tion, at one period or another, is a fact which gives them a particular interest, and claims the utmost attention. In those cases where death occurs, we find it to result