phere of cerebrum, or in their course from thence. (Med. Times, December, 1844; January, 1845.) 20. The cortex, commissure, and intergyral fibres, remain to intelligence (?). 21. Palsy is compression subalation or division of motor cord. 22. Capillary disorder (hypernutrient P) of motor brain fibres approaching the pons varolii by crus cerebri or cerebelli, or beginning in the pons, is the cause of convulsions. One nerve or spinal marrow may so convulse parts below. Many examples of disease of cerebrum encroaching on the pons on one side, first causing convulsions of the opposite limbs,* and then of the whole body. 23. The same as to cerebellum. 24. Disorders in the pons, causing general convulsions. (See the Seat of Convulsions, &c., 2 papers; Medical Times, October, November, 1844.) 25. On reflex nervous acts, and their disturbances, and the more probable parts of nervous sympathies. (Ibid., July, 1844.) Physics and humoralism limit nervous theories. Muscles act from distension, or reflex agency or volition. The co-ordinating cords of sympathetic motions are gathered up in the medulla oblongata; and the lower segments of the marrow have no excito- motory power in man. The generalizers of reflex ac ts—views of Whytt, Mayo, Hall. Simple and reflex acts—direct or doubtful. Medulla oblongata. Exclusion of spinal cord, whose columns have various functions. (Ibid.) The reflex centres apart from brain. Whytt, Alison, Hall. General doctrine of excito-motory influences simple; and derange- ments also. Sympathies not excito-motory. (Ibid.) Induction quoad old sympathies weak—Mayo’s reflex acts in the iris—Bell, Muller. Each part of a reflex arc may err. Pro- portion needful between causes and effects. Arcs only partially over the body; so should the diseases be—vomiting, asthma—real cause of Convulsions. (Ibid, and Lancet, September, 1844.) Excito-motion in inverse proportion to the grade and matu- rity of the animal. 26. I have ventured to show that the sympathies of Hunter and Charles Bell may be referred variously to excito-motion, humoralism, and simple lesion of nerve-cords, in whatever parts of their course. Contiguous capillary sympathy I make to be humoral. I do not deny that some sympathy may yet be esta- blished. (Prov. Med. Journ., Dec., 1813. Med. Times, May, 1843.) 27. Lesions of the summit of the spinal marrow retard respira- tion and the pulse. Excessive safety-valve may cause slow pulse P (Cfises, &c., Lancet, March, 1845.) Causes of paraplegia in intervertebral substance. (Medical Gazette, 1844.) * The anterior lobe, the leg'; the posterior, the arm.