Mr. Kiruj on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. 13 arch, which two form by uniting superiorly, gives a sepa- rate point of insertion to each of their cords, and, at the same time, a different direction to the downward traction exerted upon every one of them at the periods of distention. On the Safety-Valve in the Quadrumana. The opinion suggested in my first paper, relative to a series of gradations in the safety-valve of different monkeys, has been supported by pretty conclusive examples; and T may add, that the extent to which the variations are carried has exceeded my expectations. In the heart of a baboon (Maimon), prepared by Mr. T. Iliff, I noticed the safety-valve, if it may he so called, at its lowest development. It re- sembled that of the hare, but still more that of the dog. It is not unimportant to study the probable result (which I have elsewhere referred to) of the length of the columns of distention. It cannot but indicate, some difference, where the muscular column is proportionately thrice as long as in other instances; but I cannot now enter into the inquiry of what constitutes a full or coarse safety-valve (so to speak); and what a delicate or susceptible, though perhaps less free, valve of reflux. SECT. 5. — OF THE WATER-RAT, THE OTTER, AND ORNITHORYNCHUS ; WHICH SEEM TO NEED A SAFETY-VALVE, BUT WHICH SCARCELY APPEAR TO POS- SESS THE FUNCTION. There remains a subject to be touched upon; which I should be very glad to be able to illustrate, not only on ac- count of its interest zoologically, and because it seems to promise curious discoveries, but because, to some, it may seem to furnish objections to the general theory of the safety-valve function. That there should be exceptions to a rule, is not surprising; nor need we wonder that the interior of animals should at times differ more than their exterior or their ordinary habits. The following peculiarities in the form of the tricuspid are well deserving attention in the way of investigation, both with respect to correlative circumstances of habit, and of conformation in the several animals in which they occiu*.