FRACTURE. 118 younger, it is probable there was separation of the epiphysis. The inference of Cruveilhier, that fracture of the radius cannot result from falling on the back of the hand, is refuted, for, out of 14 examples of broken radius, Dupuytrcn found that 3 wore caused by falls upon the back of the hand, and 11 by falls upon the palm. (Clin. Chir. t. iv.) The fractures of the lower end of the radius are often mistaken for dislocations of the wrist; to which they have a greater re- semblance, in proportion as they take place nearer to the joint. They occur at from three to six lines, or an inch from the radio- carpal articulation, and either in oblique or transverse directions; but most often ob- liquely, and with an inclination downwards and forwards. Occasionally the spongy base of the radius is reduced to many fragments, in a bag, as it were, of periosteum. Dupuytren met with cases of comminution of the articular surface ; and the lower portion is occasionally found in two ]ncces from a vertical fracture, or there may be only a slight fissure. Together with this fracture of the radius, the ulna also has been known, in a few cases, to have been dislocated, or even to have pro- ected through the skin. These fractures of the radius are sometimes, though rarely, open; and indeed they occur with almost every possible degree of comminution, contusion, laceration, and displacement, and amputation may be the best or only resource of our art. The treatment of fractured radius alone, seldom requires material extension ; if it ap- pear that there is displacement or shortening, it should be reduced. The fore-arm is to be flexed, and the hand placed between prona- tion and supination. The hand from the wrist should also be inclined towards the ulna side of the fore-arm, and the fingers directed downwards. Dupuytren contrived a bar of iron to lie along the side of the ulna, and curved abruptly inwards (downwards in the sling), at the wrist ; the hand was also forci- bly adducted to the curved part. This, I think, involves an error to be guarded against. The efficient application of this “ ulnar splint” would augment the disi)lacemcnt of the radius, by one or both the [)ronators. Soap plaster, covered by a slack roller, is generally enjoined, with no other veiy appa- rent utility than the opportunity of hinting that we should avoid biiiding the broken ends ui)on the ulna throughout the after treatment; which the position of the fingers downwards has a natural tendency to obviate. 1 he ulna being entire t’orms the first and best splint; also a means of atleni|)ting some extension of the radius. A well j)added splint is^ next to be placed along the inside of the fore-arm, extending to the last joint of the fingers, and a similar splint and pad are to bo placed along the outside of the arm and hand. The mo- tion of the last joint of the fingers is to be left unrestrained. A great length of time is often required for the fingers to regain their use after adhesive inflammation about their tendons ami thecae. Tliis is an urgent reason for subdu- ing all active inflammation about the wrist; and with regard to the rigorous application of splints in difficult cases, it is better to suffer a good deal of deformity than obliterate the actions of the tendons by exciting inflamma- tion in their sheaths. It is sometimes considered necessary to place a compress, as well as can be, between . the ends of the fracture and the ulna, or be- tween the radius and ulna above, in order to prevent the bones being drawn together, and : eventually united by bone, from which the loss of pronation and supination must re-- suit. The compresses referred to may at; times be of use, but gentle treatment is of the utmost importance, as excessive inflammatory actions are especially to be avoided. When there is no longer a fear of excessive inflammation, the patient may go about, with a sling supporting the M’hole length of the ulna. The fingers depending, may be made to effect some extension of the radius ; but- this requires caution, as it may be excessive,, or induce lateral displacement of the frag- ments. In fractures near the wrist there is a dis- position in the hand and lower fragment to be turned outwards, that is, towards the radial side of the fore-arm; and deformity and im- perfect pronation and supination will follow,, if means are not taken to keep the hand in-- dined in the opposite direction. Dupuytren. has very particularly described his treatment of these, as well as many other particular fractures. (Clin. Chir.) Fracture of the radius and ulna together may happen at either extremity of the fore- arm, or in the middle : the upjier part of the fore-arm is, however, seldom fractured, being, much protected by the numerous muscles that surround it, and by the greater solidity of the ulna in that position. Both bones are usually broken in the same line, but occasionally one more or less above the ])lane of the other. Generally, each bone has but one fracture; for the bones to be broken in two places is rare. By the wheel of a cart, or such ponderous- body, it may of course happen, that the bones- shall be reduced to many fragments; yet these- may, under favourable circumstances, unite- well, and with but little deformity. Direct violence to the fore-arm is the most common cause ot these fractures ; but an indi- rect force, as a fall upon the hand, occasional!} ])i’oduces an equal amount of mischief: in sucl case, not only is the radius fractured (sec Fractures of Radius) as is common, bu( the fracture of the ulna may follow, since it if inca])ablc of resisting, or of extricating itscl : from the remainder of the shoek.^ The nature of the accident is not easil}^ mistaken; there is excessive motion when tlrerc was none before, and cre])itus is, in inos ease.s, readily felt. At the seat of fracture<