FRACTURE. 136 beneath its synovial and periosteal covering along the line of the fracture. 1 regret that we have not more complete accounts, as well as engravings, of this valuable case. It must not be admitted as unobjection- able ; but supposing a complete fracture to have occurred, it is to be remarked, that a cer- tain degree of obliquity is incompatible with the subsequent assertions, or, rather, conclu- sions. An oblique fracture at this age, with shortening of the neck, and bony reparation, entirely within the capsule, three months after the infliction of the injury, are not enough to establish the fact that the first injury did not reach external to the capsule ; for the subsequent changes may have car- ried the limits of the capsule nearer to the trochanters. Suppose this to have been a case of complete fracture ; suppose even the rigid flexion to have been, moreover, a par- tial luxation, (for the capsule seems to have suffered,) an oblique fracture of the neck would leave the detached portion an abundant periosteum, and would render coaptation very forcible by the wedging up of the lower frag- ment. By way of explaining the degree of organization of the parts at this age, I may re- fer to the statement formerly made, that the epiphysis seems to be a solid expansion of periosteum, whose function, until active growth has ceased, is scarcely arrested. Does not the shortening of the neck at this growing age, positively require that the capsule should descend to include more of the neck than it did previously to the injury ? Fig. 54. imvarih and upwards as in the dotted line. Tn the case referred to, I think the inclination of the head is even more outwards, and the t/reat trochanter is larger, and higher; and. distinctly an epiphysis as the head. 'The interspace of the fragments is drawn cr^ roneously. Thus much I had written previous to having examined the specimen here spoken of, in St. Bartholomew’s Museum. After seeing the specimen, however, there seems to be reason for the expression of somewhat different views, though not of the original narrative • of the case. It is evident, that full two inches of the head and neck have been sepa-- rated from the shaft ; this is not quite con-- sistent with the common opinion of fracture entirely within the capsule ; and again, the ■ axis of the head and neck, instead of pointing: upwards, and inwards, is positively directed I upwards and outwards, so that the inferior fractured surface (or that of the shaft), instead : of being opposed to the upper (or that of the neck) is in close contact with the outside of the neck. This seems to me to account for the peculiar deformity in the case. The rigidity I attribute to the muscles. Lastly, the neck and head seem by no means to have' been cut off from periosteal nutrition. The. connexions of the epiphyses are not yet con- solidated. We have seen that rheumatic ossification, may coat the whole cervix femoris, and eveni add a lip to the circumference of the articu- lar cartilage. A longitudinal fracture, first: united by bone without the capsule, would i hardly fail of pretty complete ossification in the end ; an oblique fracture approaches near-- est; and next, perhaps, is a transverse fracture in a young person, when coaptation and nutrU- tion are sustained by active periosteal bands. Mr. Stanley thus writes to Mr. Bransby' Cooper : “ We have in the museum of St. Bartholomew’s, twelve specimens of fractures- in the neck of the thigh-bone; six external to the capsule and united, and six within the. capsule. In three of the latter there is no union, and in the other three there is union by ligamentous matter." Dr. Monro “ had an opportunity of examining two cases after death, and in both of these the broken ends- of the neck of the bone were united by a sub- stance somewhat like to ligament.” Dr. Colies writes, “ I have never yet seen an in- stance of bony union, when the fracture had been within the ligament. We have very many siiccimcns of a disease of the head and neck of the thigh-bone, which i.s of frequent occurrence among our labouring pool. Dr. Colics thought of publishing his opinions,- “ and of endeavouring to show, that in all probability the supposed cases of fracture within the ligament, united by jione, were merely instances of this disease '. 'I'lic reader may now understand, that if a portion of bone be (luile detached from the femur in the acetabulum, there is no reason-; I Si'c ii Treatise on Dislocations, &c. cilited liy j\Ir. Dranshy H. Coo])cr.