Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Birds. 64 the mammalia, so in birds, the power of this part varies very much in the different families. The thickness of the yielding wall of the right ventricle, compared with the parietes of the left ventricle, may be as 1 to 2 or 3, or as 1 to 6 or 7*. The attachment of distention, or the united attachment of the two crescents to the yielding wall, varies in its breadth, and also in its length t, in the several families: sometimes it is a double cord, or triple, or even more. In the same manner, the angle formed by the two crescents differs, in different cases, between a right angle and one of conside- rable obtuseness. It has usually been said, that the solid wall in birds is convex, and that the valvular crescent is curved upon it; but this statement is chiefly applicable in those cases where the valve is least susceptible of displacement by dilatation ; for the solid wall, at least that part on which the valve lies, may be flat, or actually concave. All these ' circumstances are readily demonstrable ; but the estimation of their extent and influence must remain for further eluci- dation. We may now see that the strict closure or imperfect action of the crescentic valves, throughout the class Aves, will depend on the variations which subsist in the relative proportions of the cavity, and of the yielding wall of the two crescents, and of the attachment of distention; and that the prominent or receding form of the solid w’all will also play its part in regulating the operations of the valve J. Having examined the elements of a safety-valve in the birds, and explained the circumstances of its variation, we * Indeed, the comparison of the walls of the two cavities affords a much more remarkable contrast in certain birds than in any of the mammalia. In the Stanley crane, I found the thickness of the right ventricle less than one-sixth that of the left; and in the black diver, certainly less than one- fourth. •f- Its length, reaching more or less towards the centre of the yielding wall, is a very important point, as relates to the delicacy of the safety-valve ojieration. + The intention of the crescentic and muscular valve was supposed, by lilumenbach, to relate to the exalted respiratory function, or rather to a powerful pulmonary circulation, in birds. But this will scarcely suffice to explain