Ml FRACTURE. of the neck of the hone, it is unnecessari/ to keep up ejtension ; it suffices to apply the middle of a four- tailed handaye over a pad of lint just above the tro- chanter, tico of the tails of which should he carried round the pelvis and drawn rather tiyhtly, to preveid the bandage from slipping off, and the remaining two, also upon a jxid, round the upper part of the thigh, and fastened as close as the case may recpiire. The object of this bandaqe is to counteract the contraction of those muscles w)tich have a tendency to separate the fnwtured surfaces. A splint should also be ap- plied along the outer side of the thigh as in fraeture of the neck; its object is to keep tlte trochanter in a proper line with the shaft of the bone. In fractures betu eeti the trochanters, just below the neck, the same position is necessary as in fractures of the neck of the bone; the trochanter being prevented from dropping by a hard pillow placed beneath it, and the upper and toicer fragments kept in a proper line by means of the side splint lightly applied. In fractures below the trochanter minor, the limbs ought to be placed over the double vwlined plane, fixed at a right angle, and the injured limb extended to its 7iatural leyigth by the elongation of the middle plane. A common splint, well padded, and long enough to reach from the tuberosity of the isclmim to the ham, should be placed under the thigh upon some straps, another upmn the outer side, another upon the inner, and a fourth upon the frord of the thigh. They should keep up apressure, judiciously regulated, upon the limb, by means of straps and buckles I have already objected to the rig’id treat- ment of fractures near to the head of the femur. I must here remark that the great flexion of the knee as above depicted, seems a j needless extension of the rectus femoris. ^ When the femur is broken near its middle, ■ From Dr. Cutler’s Practical Guide to Dressing, &c. the inferior portion may be directed outwards, with or without overlapping ; but a little at- tention readily detects and remedies this. Some abduction of the leg, or even the me- thod of Pott, may be useful in such a case. In cases of oblique fracture of the shaft, we must expect that the displacement will be at one time determined by the line of frac- ture, at another by the muscles, or occasion- ally by both. If the student will observe Figs. 273, 274, and 275, 285 (a and a'), 295, 296, and 297, —which w'ere employed without reference to present considerations, he may understand how common are lateral displacement and overlapping, as sequelae of fracture of the shaft of the femur. Specimens of union with- out these consequences are few; and trans- verse fracture scarcely seems to prevent their occurrence in general, excepting when it hap- pens near the condyles. To bend the knee considerably when the femur is broken near its middle, and when there is any disposition to overlapping, is, of course, to prevent the relaxation of the short and powerful extensors of the knee, w'hich are by far the most influential causes of shortening. The flexion of repose is some criterion, and either straight splints or inclined planes may be made to conform to this condition, at least in part. Sir A. Cooper considers that de- formity is sure to result from fracture just above the condyles, if the limb be not placed in a bent position. He recommends the double inclined plane, and a roller applied round the femur. Fig. 61. Iracture of the internal condyle nearly in a longitudi- nal direction; the fragment is retruded. The union A