28 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function counteract the contraction of the wall, and to maintain the safety-valve. Having entertained the idea, that the state of the left ven- tricle might affect the function of the right valve, I contrived, by the help of the stop-cock, to retain the left ventricle in a state of distention; hut this did not seem to produce any alteration, in the result of experiments, on the right. I have already noticed the more direct and scattered in- sertions of the tendinous cords into the tricuspid curtains, affording them an uniform support, when the three unite, by their margins, to form one oval layer in the plane of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The varying lengths of the cords are likewise adapted to this effect; and these few scattered and, as it were, additional attachments of the cords fiave a tendency, when the valve is in operation, to render its aurieular surface both pitted and nodular. It will naturally strike the physiologist, who may be in- duced, in opposition to a settled opinion, to give any atten- tion to these statements, that conclusive expei’iments can only be made upon the living heart*; and I have not been unmindful of the force of such an opinion. I have twice had an opportunity of experimenting on the human heart at the earliest period that propriety could admit of. In one of these cases (of which I have not hitherto spoken), after performing the experiment and eliciting results similar to those related, the heart was set aside, with the expectation that its tonicity would gi’adually contract the ventricles and fleshy pillars; which accordingly occurred. The first trial of this heart was made with warm water; and the fluid was thrown in, at first gently, and afterwards pretty forcibly; but the regurgitation at this time was always con- siderable. Now, upon repeating the experiment on the same heart, when contracted after the lapse of a few hours, the tricuspid valve was found to be much less incomplete: still, * There is, notwithstanding, one very powerful reason for concluding in favour of the experiment upon the heart some hours after death. For if the tonic contraction of the heart has not been able to effect the condition necessary to a true valvular action, what was to have been expected during life ? Those will best understand this view, who have examined the soft and flaccid ventricle, during the intervals, and upon the cessation of its con- tractions.