151 FRACTURE. a small wound extending into the joint. The knee was fomented and poulticed ; inflamma- tion and suppuration followed ; and this man in a few days died with the highest symptoms of constitutional irritation. “ Case.—Mr. Hawker, surgeon, called me to visit a man who had just arrived in London, who, being at work in a warehouse up one pair of stairs, on hearing the signal for dinner, seeing the doors of the warehouse open, walked quickly out, and fell into the street. By this fall he had a eompound fracture of the pa- tella. The limb was attempted to be saved. The joint suppurated ; the discharge became excessively great, and the symptoms of irrita- tion ran so high, that I thought he would not recover; but he became somewhat better, and I advised him to go into the country. I after- wards heard that he gradually recovered with an ankylosed joint. “ Case.—Mr. R. aged thirty-nine years, was thrown from his gig, on June 18th, 1819, against a cart-wheel. His knee came violently in contact with the wheel, which fractured his patella and opened the joint. Mr. Dixon, of Newington Butts, was sent for, and he found that the knee had bled freely from a wound on its outer side, from which the synovia freely escaped, and which readily admitted his finger to the shattered patella. The acci- dent happened at ten o’elock in the morning : I was sent for by Mr. Dixon, and when I met him at four o’clock, I found a w'ound on the fore part of the knee, through which I readily passed ray finger into the joint. The patella was not broken transversely, but, as I have expressed it, shattered, that is, broken into several pieces ; and a small piece which was separated from the rest I removed. It was agreed between Mr. Dixon and myself that an attempt should be made to save the limb, for the patient was of a spare habit, and, from his great composure, showed that he was not of an irritable constitution. I passed a suture through the integuments, knowing the diffi- culty of keeping the wound closed, on ac- count of the continued escape of synovia, but taking the utmost care tnat the ligament should not be included in the suture. Adhe- sive plaster was also applied over the wound, and rollers lightly put on, which were kept constantly wet with spirits of wine and water. Tlie leg was placed in the extended position, and ho was ordered not to move it in the slightest degree, and to live on fruit. “ Saturday.—He had passed a very good night, and was free from pain or fever. “ The next day he was restless, and was thought delirious; but, on Monday morning, he was relieved by a dose of castor oil, and he afterwards had no bad ^mptoms. As there was no swelling, no inflammation, and scarcely any pain, the suture was not removed until the 30th of June, when the adhesive plaster was renewed. “ He recovered without any untoward acci- dent. Mr. Dixon ordered him from bod in a month, and at the end of five weeks gave the joint slight passive motion. On the 7tli of August, the patient walked across his room ; and he entirely recovered the use of his limb. “Case.—Capt. O. of the 1st Dragoons, in riding very fast at night on the 15th July, 1834, was run against by a cart, and struck his jiatella against the wheel, which produced a compound fracture of his right patella. Capt. O. was very much shaken from the concussion, and thrown with his horse upon the ground. He was seen immediately by Mr. Laurence of Brighton, and afterwards by Sir A. Cooper and Mr. Vance. They directed that the leg should be kept perfectly quiet, applied a piece of lint dipped in blood, and kept it in its situ- ation by adhesive plaster; the foot and leg were placed in an elevated posture. “ A month after the accident the bandages were removed, w'hen it was found that the wound had nearly healed ; and then adhesive plaster was applied as a bandage to keep the divided portion as much as possible together: Capt. O. remained upon his bed for four weeks and two days. For a month after his rising from the bed he went upon crutches, and he now walks with a stick. He has a tolerable motion of the joint, and the fractured portions of bone can be distinctly felt. He says he suffered very little pain, but had an occasional spasm of the muscles. Capt. O. subsequently recovered a perfectly useful limb. “ Case.—Cornelius Michael Kelly, aged forty, a healthy looking man, and of temperate habits, by occupation a labourer, whilst work- ing at a wharf, fell wdth his leg bent under him upon some pig-iron, his whole weight being upon the knee. He was immediately brought to Guy’s Hospital. When admitted, he did not appear at all collapsed, as might have been expected from the severe nature of the injury. There was a laceration over the knee ; the patella was fractured and comminuted, and synovia was escaping. The whole force seemed to have been concentrated upon the patella, as there was a depression in its cen- tre, from which the fractured pieces appeared to diverge. The limb was placed upon a back splint extending from the tuber ischii to the heel, and thirty leeches were immediately applied. Mr. Cooper saw the case about two ho>irs afterwards, and twenty more leeches were ordered, with three grains of Dover’s powder and of hydrargyrum cum creta every four hours, and an aperient. A pad of lint was placed over the wound, and the limb was bandaged above and below the knee. “May 12th. Thirty more leeches were ordered. He complains of great pain in the knee ; his constitution appears to sympathise with the injury, his skin being hot, tongue furred, and pulse somewhat accelerated. The man to be kept quiet, and to have saline mix- ture and low diet. May 13th. Still complains of great pain in the kneq. Thirty more leeches to be put on, and whitewash to be ap- plied above and below the knee. May 14tli. The pain still continues great, though not so