36 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function Joseph N , aged 4o: examined twenty-three hours after death. The heart was involved in firm adhesions. (The right ventricle was large; but the dilatation was chiefly in the direction of the pulmonary artery, and acted less upon the columns of distention: its parietes were greatly thickened. The tricuspid valve acted with unusual accuracy and firm- ness : its curtain was very extensive, and slightly thickened. When acting, it formed a pretty simple plane. There was one column of distention, with a rather short moderator hand; and two other columns planted upon short moderator hands, and very little liable to be affected by distention. The pul- monary artery was capacious, and its valves perfect. The left ventricle was large, and hypertrophic. The bicuspid valve, when tried by injection, was seen to act imperfectly; and its margins were a good deal thickened. The left auricle was capacious, and thick. The fatal circumstances, in addition, were—Bronchitis and haemoptysis—inflamed and tubercular lungs—affected liver, and anasarca. Here are the cireumstances of disease, the action of the right ventricle being too strictly and forcibly propulsive. The hypertrophy of the cavity had resisted the tendency to distention : its strength, with an arrangement of its valve congenitally, very unfavourable to a safety-valve action (and a probable cause of the hypertrophy), must, at least, have aggravated the diseases in the lungs. The state of the left side of the heart was a material cause of obstruction. The dilatation resulted, as I conclude, from the powerful injection from the right ventricle. The mitral valve was weak, in consequence of the ventricular dilatation, and the traction exerted upon its cords. D. E >, aged 42: examined twenty hours after death. The heart was very fat, large, and powerful; the right side rather empty than full. Upon injecting by the pulmo- nary artery, the tricuspid was seen, in the auricle, to form a very uniform plane; and the curtains united neatly, so as to admit only three inconsiderable streams of reflux. This heart being set aside in water, the reflux was certainly