10 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. SECT. 4.—NOTES ON THE SAFETY-VALVE OF THE BEAVER^ THE DUGONGj AND THE QUADRUMANA. On the Safety-Valve of the Beaver. The beaver affords, I think, the simplest illustration and the strongest proof of the theory which it is my aim to advocate. Its heart, contrasted only superficially with that of another rodent, furnishes a conclusion that it will be difficult indeed to controvert; when it is admitted, that vari- ations of form are essential indications of variations of office; and that such a habit as that of diving is to be sup- ported by especial endowments, of one kind or another, ex- ternal or internal, of altered conformations, or of parts alto- gether supplementary. In a former paper, the reader may find described, and drawn, the characters of the tricuspid or safety-valve in the rodentia or gnawing animals. The following is a very marked, and, as far as I know, the only deviation to be found in the form of the valve throughout this order of animals*. It will be easy enough to compare the adjoining drawing and sketch; which represent the interior of the right ven- tricle in the beaver, on the one hand; and in all the rest of the rodentia, on the other. The sketch is from a drawing of the part in the hare which may be referred to in Vol. II. of these Reports. The muscular columns of the valve are all based upon the solid septum; and it is plain that distention Tlie circular muscles of the caval openings, in many mammalia, and even in man, are not without a use in this respect. The muscular band in man is most marked in the superior cava ; and in the dog it is very broad. There are probably other provisions to be considered; but, generally, I suspect that the valves of all the venous system will have distinct and important correlations with the safety-valve. All the so-called imperfect valves act truly or not, as the tube is collapsed or distended. We shall every now and then find such occa- sions as the following to be provided for. When the seal dives, blood is accumula- ting in the veins and sinuses of the abdomen ; but with the very commencement of respiration, the diaphragm, as it were, empties the abdomen into the chest. * I have formerly shewn, that, next to ruminants, the whales, the seals, and (as I suppose) the diving birds, are the creatures most in need of, and most endowed with, a safety-valve in the right ventricle; and I have stated generally —and this deserves full consideration—that the corresponding arrangements of venous and arterial reservoirs, and of venous and other valves, are in pretty regular conformity with the gradations of the safety-valve in the series of warm-blooded animals.