in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 21 distention, together with the cords and fleshy columns at- tached to the yielding wall. As it is seen in the left ventricle, so we may partially trace in the right, that each column is disposed to receive cords from the adjoining edges of two curtains. But it is desirable to notice, that the valvular insertions of the cords are more direct and widely scattered in the right than in the left ventricle; the object being, in the first, to restrain the curtains in one uniform valvular plane. The anterior or first column of distention, with its moderator hand, may be regarded as a constant formation. (D, Fig. 1. PI. 1.) A second column (E, Fig. 1. PI. 1.) exists almost as uni- formly, and often a third; but these columns of distention vary a good deal in size and arrangement. Frequently, the first column of distention is distinctly double ; and sometimes there is a second moderator hand. The length of the columns of distention is probably of very considerable importance. The first or larger column, in particular, sometimes reaches actually into the apex of the ventricle ; (see D, Diagram 4. PI. 1.) And if it be true, first, that the valve, in/closing, tends to form a plane; and secondly, that distention deranges the curtains of distention ; it follows, that the contraction of these columns must in- crease the derangement. This effect will be in exact pro- portion to the length of the columns. It has been maintained by some, that the operation of the muscular columns is to prepare or arrange the curtains for their valvular closure; and this may be in part true with re- gard to the bicuspid : but since, in most animals, some parts of the tricuspid curtains have no columns, and since, in certain other cases, the columns do not exist at all, we may conclude that they are not essential to the nice adjustment of the valve. I think it will be fair to grant, that the muscular columns can have no influence op the valve, until the cords are more or less in a state of tension ; which manifestly cannot occur until the curtains are stretched out in or near the plane of the opening. Probably, also, the curtains must elongate the columns, to prepare them for a full contraction. As a sail is swelled by the wind, and confined by its ropes, so these