FRACTURE. 40 A couple of pillows, hollowed in the middle, by forcing the feathers to each end, to receive the limb, and placed across under it, would serve to prevent lateral motion. From what has been said respecting the mode of conveying the patient, in the case I have chosen, the reader may easily imagine the steps proper to be taken in cases requiring less care. There is no case in which it is not of importance in the carriage to prevent, as much as possible, the irritation or laceration of the soft parts by the fragments of the bone. In the great majority of cases the surgeon does not see the patient till he is in bed, and then the first business of the surgeon, after having ascertained the existence of the frac- ture, is, to move him to a sofa, or other fit place, till the bed is properly prepared for his reception. Of course, the precautions already described will be taken in moving him from and to his bed. It is of some consequence for the success of the treatment, in fractures of the lower extremity, that the bed should be of a particular construction. In private practice we must generally take the bed such as we find it. In a hospital we should choose a narrow bed, not more than a yard across, and with a foot-board not higher than the bedding, that the assistants may be able to reach the fractured limb readily and conveniently from the further side of the bed, and from the bottom of it. The bed should be provided with a firm hair- mattress, for the immediate support of the patient. A feather-bed, underneath the mat- tress, is not inadmissible, but objectionable. It renders the support of the patient less firm, and makes the mattress liable to lose its hori- zontal position. If the surgeon have his fracture apparatus within easy reach, it will be best not to move the patient to the bed again till every preparation for reducing the fracture, and securing the fragments, has been completed. We shall suppose this done, and the patient laid in bed. The indications that present themselves in the general treatment of a fracture are, to reduce the fracture, to maintain the reduc- tion by mechanical means, and to prevent or obviate undue inflammation, and the other evils likely to be the consequence of the injury. The surgeon has now to fulfil the two former indications. In treating the subject of the reduction of fractures, I shall, for the sake of clearness in description, choose, as before, a fracture of the femur. Whatever of a general nature I shall say with regard to this will ap|)ly, viuta- iis viutandis, to other fractures. Special con- siderations will of course be reserved till we come to the detailed treatment of the individual fractures.- It is not only in frac- tures of the extremities that the reduction is of importance. In those of the head and trunk, as well as of the nose and lower jaw, it is still important to consider what may be required to adjust the displaced parts, as well as to guard adjacent vital or tender parts from injury and inflammation, although often we may have little or nothing to do in the way of systematic reduction. Let the surgeon, during the reduction, have his eye, his ear, and his hand alive, to learn every particular respecting the nature of the fracture that he can ;—its direction, the relative positions of the fragments, the degree of shortening, &c. &c. Such know- ledge will be most useful in the after treat- ment, yet it would be bad practice to make particular examinations, in the hope of gain- ing this information at the expense of pain and aggravated inflammation. The different steps of the reduction con- sist of what are technically called counter- extension, extension, and coaptation, or setting. This is the general method of describing reduction ; and even in the use of the ele- vator to raise a portion of depressed skull, as in the treatment of the majority of fractures, the same plan is carried out. At other times one fragment requires to be firmly fixed, while the other is to be carefully brought in juxta- position with it. To relax muscles is also a primary essential consideration in reference to reduction. In fractures of the larger bones a different person performs each of the several parts of reduction. In those of small bones the sur- geon may perform the whole three himself. In all cases the coaptation belongs to the surgeon. In the case before us, the surgeon is to place himself close at the side of the injured limb. The assistant who is to per- form counter-extension should stand opposite the surgeon, that they may not impede one another, and a little above where the patient’s pelvis is placed. The second assistant may stand on either side of the bed, if it be nar- row, so as to be able to press the palm of his right hand on the calf of the injured limb, immediately below the ham, and the thumb on the front of the tibia, while with the other he grasps the front and lower part of the leg. The order of the steps of the operation, is counter-extension, extension, coaptation. The assistant, whose business it is to make counter-extension, is not actually to draw the part to which he applies his force in a direc- tion opposite to that of the extension, but simply to neutralize the tendency of this force to draw that |)art downwards,by keeping firmly fixed the part that articulates with the upper fragment. Let then the surgeon direct the assistant, to whom this duty has been confided, to fix the pelvis firmly, by grasping it with a thumb on each anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, his fingers over the dorsum of the ilium, and the upper part of the ])alm on the crest of the ilium, the assistant looking towards the j)a- ticiit’s feet. The pelvis is to bo strongly pressed against the mattress. It is a general rule, not to allow the assistants to act till the moment they are required. By neglecting this rule, the assistant, who has to exert con-