FRACTURE. 159 heeled shoe was then used for the purpose of keeping the tendo Achillis in its most complete state of relaxation, but ligamentous union only could be effected.” Some writers recommend active measures to depress the detached fragment, but it must be apparent that pressure at its upper edge will be most effectual in driving it towards the ankle joint. The most complete relaxation and entire rest of the gastrocnemii for about a fortnight will facilitate the first adhesions ; and subsequently the most gentle and gradu- ally increased tension will best convert those adhesions into a short and massive ligament. A moderate acquaintance with the contents of this article will hardly fail to make the student au fait in the management of the frac- tures of the remaining bones of the foot, which are few, and little varied. Bibliography.—Concerning Fractures in general. Duvemey., Traite des Maladies des Os. Paris, 1754. Petit, J. L., Traite des Maladies des Os. Paris, 1758. Pott, Remarks on Fraetures and Dislocations. Lond. 1770. Ditto, translated by P. Cassus. Paris, 1788. Aithen, Essays on Important Subjects in Surgery, etc., 1771. Boettcher, Abnandlung von den Krankbeiten der Knochen. Berlin, 1796. Boyer, Leqons sur les Maladies des Os, publiees par Ricnerand. Paris, 180k Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, tom. iii. Paris. Sue, Remarques et Reflexions sur quelques Maladies des Os. Paris, 1803. Dupuytren, Memoire sur quelques cas particuliers de Fractures. Bulletin de la Faculte, 1811. Sattter, Anweisung der Bein- briicbe der Gliedmassen. Wint. 1812. Cooper, A., A Treatise on Dislocations, and on Fractures of the Joints. Lond. 1823. Campaignac, Des Fractures In completes, et des Fractures Longitudinales. Paris, 1830. Bernstein, Ueber die Verrenkungen und Bein- briiche. Jena, 1819. Richter, Theoretisch-praktischer Handbuch der Lehre von den Briichen. Berlin, 1828. Sanson, Diet, de Med. et de Chirurg. pratiques, tom. viii. art. Fractures, 1832. Lonsdale, A Practical Treatise on Fractures, illustrated with woodcuts. Lond. 1838. For the Bibliography of Particular Fractures, see Traite de Chirurgie, par M. J. Chelius, traduit par J. P, Pigne, Paris, 1839. (T". Wilkinson King.^ THE END. OiLBERT & Rivington, Printers, St. John’s Square, London.