<) Mr. T. Wilkinson Kimj on the Stomach. Case 3. Hernia.—Operation.—Bleeding.—Dissolved (Esophagus. April 1835.—Mary S., aged 67, a pretty well-conditioned person, was the subject of strangulated femoral hermia, which was laid open and returned. She sank on the third day after- wards. The body was examined within about ten hours after her decease. There was a general peritonitis, with much sanguinolent and fibrinous effusion, and considerable fetid effluvium. The strictured gut had a pretty healthy aspect. The left end of the stomach was a good deal dissolved; and a wide patch of the oesophagus was removed by the same causes; the green pulpy contents of the stomach being widely spread in the softened membrane of the mediastinum, and about two ounces were effused into the left pleura. The spleen was softening, and the liver indurated and myristicate. The kid- neys were too turgid. Dr. Samuel Gross, of Cincinnati College, who has produced a large and useful work on the “ Elements of Pathological Anatomy,” remarks, that “ softening of the oesophagus, of the same nature as that of the stomach, is sometimes observed — and, that “ one of the most common effects of this lesion is a perforation of the walls of the tube, and an escape of fluid into the thorax. The opening usually occurs near the cardiac extremity of the oesophagus, in connexion with an infamed, softened, or perforated state of the stomach; though occasio- nally there is no appreciable alteration whatever in any of the surrounding textures. No age seems to be exempt from this lesion; and in one or two instances it has been observed in new-born infants.” (Vol. II. p. 188.) It might be very possible to find additional facts to the foregoing'^. Sir Astley Cooper once described a similar case * The case related by Boerhaave, of a gentleman who, relieving his stomach, as he was wont, by an emetic, suddenly complained of a sense of rupture, and sank after twelve hours of great distress, is, I suspect, of the kind I am de- scribing. He was a robust, gouty Baron. 'I'he oesophagus was found torn asunder, a little above the cardia ; and there was a rent an inch and a half long into tlie left pleura, which was filled with the contents of the .stomach. I cannot conceive