Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. 43 series, will not strictly admit the application of the term ‘tricuspid’; since there is a little cuspid process, or cur- tain, between each two adjoining columns. The anterior column appears, in this series, to increase in size, nearly in the same ratio as the remainder decrease in number and importance. Its precise relative dimensions, together with the nature of its connection to the moderator band, are all the particulars here requiring attention. It will be seen, that in the hare all the columns of dis- tention are planted on the solid wall; but it is necessary particularly to observe the attachment of the anterior column distinctly above the thin moderator band*. Now, in some other animals the moderator band is still less in size, and still more remote; until, perhaps, it altoge- ther disappears t- But, on the other hand, tracing the series in the opposite direction, we see the moderator band rising to be inserted into the base (as at F), and even above the base of the anterior column of distention (as at/).J And, still farther on in the succession of gradations, the moderator band (or rather cord) has an insertion low down into the body of the column, and subsequently into the solid wall%: at the same time, we may perceive that the column is much increased in extent, which must give it a material in- fluence over the curtain of distention, during its contraction. In classing the animals after their several proportions of safety-valve construction, the following is the order in which I should arrange this first series ; including only the animals whose hearts I have been able to examine at least once, and for the most part oftener ||. In the rat, the columns of distention are three or four; and the moderator band is a mere film, and very remote. In the rabbit, the parts are the same ; but perhaps the rudimentary band is proportionally somewhat more distinct. Next in order is the hare, as already described. Then follow together the kangaroo, the little bush kan- * See Fig. 1. PI. 2 ; and Diagr. 3. PI. 2. t See Diagr. 2. PI. 2. $ See Diagr. 4. PI. 2. § See Diagr. 5. PI. 2. II Specimens of almost all the instances adduced will be found, either in the Collection of the Zoological Society, or in that of Guy’s Hospital. A little series is also in progress of preparation for the College of Surgeons, at the request of Professor Owen, the distinguished Curator of the Hunterian Museum.