12 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function The Effect of Cold.—Considerable degrees of cold applied over the surface of the body must have a material effect upon the venous system, internally. The surface is blanched by the contraction of its capillary blood-vessels, and the anserine roughness is probably dependent upon a similar cause. At the same time, a general and rather firm contraction of the exposed integument propels the contents of the larger superficial veins towards the right side of the heart, whilst the arteries and left ventricle soon evince the effect of an impeded capillary circulation. Disturbed Respiration.—On suspending the respiration by a voluntary effort, the movements of the left ventricle and arterial pulse continue unaltered, even as long as we are capable of maintaining the effort; and the experiment may be prolonged considerably, by taking the precaution of per- forming several full* respirations immediately before it. From this I conclude, that the circulation through the lungs is sustained until the aerating functions of those organs, is nearly or quite suspended—until the oxygen they contain is expended; but there can be no doubt, to the pathologist and the experimentalist, that every considerable impediment to respiration produces delay in the right side of the heart and its vessels. The like result will probably happen, during severe exertion, from particular or general interruptions to the progress of circulation. In the more transitory obstructions of the lungs by dis- ease, the impediment in the circulation must be pretty obvious. The Combination of Causes distending the Right Ventricle.— We have already adverted to the influence of cold, repletion, and the muscular compression of the venous system, as individual causes of internal congestion; but whatever power may be imputed to any one of these, the reflecting physio- logist will scarcely hesitate to admit the inevitable existence * The augmented power of suspending the respiration, after a repetition of complete exspirations, appears to have been tried by Professor Faraday, according to Dr. Williams. See Dublin Journ. of Med. and Chem. Science, Scj)l. 1113!}, p. 153.