flexion, with a view to the preservation of the motions of the joint. Extension essential to the Formation of new Lhament.—The remarks made on the forma- tiem of ligament in false joints (p. 307, 319, &c. of this volume), will be found very im- portant with reference to the proper treat- ment of the cases before us. It is a fact which seems to be totally neglected, that the forma- tion of new ligament or tendon depends essen- tially on the agency of the force of extension, and that the new deposit is of a very different character, before, and after the influence of extension has had time to act upon it. I have no doubt that defective ligamentous union of the broken patella is often attri- butable to the removal of tension, together with the application of cold. With a trans- verse fractui’e of this bone, and the com- plete division of the extensors acting on it, a little care might induce bony union ; but in the absence of this, there would be nothing but a scanty quantity of cellular membrane, which tension might convert into massive ligament; that is to say, a graduated exten- sion, not a sudden overwhelming extension. I much regret that I have not found a ' better occasion to explain and illustrate this I view. The reader will discover several scat- I tered comments on the subject throughout [ the article “ Fracture and it vvill be again I touched upon under the head “Luxations.” The reproduction of vessels, cellular tissue, and bone, seems to be nearly all that our bodies are capable of in the way of fresh formations. The minute circumstances of the reunion of nerves, even when simply divided, still require elucidation before they can be freely admitted, 1 In the false joint represented at fig. 308, ij and probably in that at fig. 307, the wide inter- space of the severed bones was filled up only 3 by cellular membrane ; but in fig. 306, con- tinual motion and extension have converted the common bond of union into a ligament. We see the effects of the want of the excite- ment by motion and common tensions, in the scanty membranous repair which follows tre- phining. In a recent experiment relative to the reunion of bone, the result of which Mr. Bransby B. Cooper was kind enough to show me, a small portion of bone having been removed, as in fig. 308, I found eaeh cut end of the radius scaled by bone, as in an amputated stump ; but the two ends tied together by a solid ligament, as in a false I joint. The reason of this is, that just so much t bone was removed as would prevent bony ' reunion, and leave the soft union subject to cx- : tensions with all the movements of the limb. Besides extension and motion, compression, 'within a certain limit, may sometimes tend to the induration of new ligament; or perhaps icompression with motion includes extension. Fig. .30.5, and the ligamentous union of some i partially impactcfl fractures, particularly a ' lomcwhat common case resembling fig. a, are I llustrations of this. Wo have elsewhere referred to the general fact, that the nutrition of parts is commensu- rate with the tensions they have to resist from day to day; and it may be seen that it is only a modification of this principle by which adventitious cellular membrane is (so to speak) successively stretched, inflamed, and thick- ened : yet the violence of the inflammation may be out of proportion ; and thus, w'hile a natural tendon is developed in due proportion to its muscle and bone ; there are circum- stances which may render either or both of these parts too weak or too strong, so as to operate disproportionately. The formation of the adventitious capsule of certain pseudarthroses is only another in- stance of the effect of motion and tensions, converting common tissue into ligamentous matter. The new joints which follow luxa- tions, and the thickened ligamentous coverings of burste ^ and bunyons, depend on the like causes; and also a curious result, of adhesions which I have seen in bursae, in the form of strong ligamentous cords traversing the ca- vities. All the ligamentous unions which follow rupture of bones, ligaments, tendons, or mus- cles, are alike instances of the same. With- out tension, they not only do not form, but the cellular reparation which is first formed, wastes away. The course of the adhesions of serou.s membranes is very analogous to the cases in question. Very soft and seemingly natural cellular substance is the common formation ; but whenever a sufficient extending force, or exciting influence, and due nutrition can act upon them, it would seem that a denser tissue is the result. Numerous long fibres, like whip cords, may be met with between the liver and diaphragm ; and this leads me to remark, that whereas various kinds of excite- ment may induce thickening of an original, or of a new product, it is always extension which gives the character of ligament. It is an entire misunderstanding of the case, to expect complete ligamentous union, as of the patella, without the agency of a verv con- siderable degree of tension ; and where the treatment of a case has been most rigid, and the reparation most tardy, we may perceive the advantage arising out of the unavoidable relaxation of the apparatus, by w'hich, without any very material extension, a decided degree of muscular tension is suflered to disturb the artificial surgery of the case, and set in opera- tion a more perfect contrivance. When Mr. Hunter suflered a rupture of his tendo Achillis, and went about with a high- heeled shoe, relying on the absolute inertness of the gastrocncmii muscles, he was, I con- ceive, resolved to bo content with an imper- fect union ; though doubtless guided by some degree of caution, which most men would of ' Tlic gaiiirlion p.atcllai licroinca entirely solid by repetitions of pressure and inllaininntion, of wliieli w'o have two largo examples in the museum of Guv’s bospitnl.