Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Birds. 73 against the reflux. It seemed certain that a fuller cavity could not have admitted a true valvular action. A full-grown ostrich had been dead three days. Some water was found in the pericardium : the right ventricle was rather empty, and the auricle was not very full. The sub- stance of the whole was firm. The pulmonary sigmoid valves acted very feebly. The crescentic valve was seen to close accurately, with a very moderate distention ; but with a slight increase, it gave way freely. It was easy to judge satisfactorily of the play of so large a piece of mechanism. If the cavity had been capable, during life, of any material degree of dilatation beyond what we found, the action of the valve would probably have been imperfect. A buzzard, that had died in confinement five days pre- viously, on being opened, was found to have rather a soft heart, the right ventricle of which w^as somewhat full. Any degree of force that was sufficient to overcome the mere adhesiveness of the valve, displaced it: indeed, it was quite evident that it could not act as a valve, when the cavity was simply filled up to the same degree as that in which it had been found when first opened. A strong old raven was poisoned, with about 2^ drops of prussic acid. It did not struggle. Within a minute and a half, it was dead, and the heart exposed. There was no pulsation. The right ventricle seemed to dilate, under the eye, very considerably. The heart was eut out, and the auricle cut off with the scissors: the pipe of the syringe was held within the mouth of the pulmonary artery by the thumb and finger (whilst an assistant guided the handle). This preparation did not occupy three minutes, but the ventricle had already begun to assume some permanent diminution and rigidity : being injected, the valve was seen to close; but a considerable aperture was produced by a slight increase of fulness, without any visible increase of the cavity; and when the apparent distention ■was scarcely half that which had been first seen, the opening was tri- angular, with a tendency to eversion (towards the auricle)