FRACTURE. 114 as in descending stairs, the anterior muscles contract, in order to restore the equilibrium, and the extensors, acting on the patella, break it directly across It appears also, that in a certain position, the extensor muscles of the leg act with ex- treme force on a part, only, of the patella, and that thus very little more than the ordinary action of the extensors may be sufficient to effect a transverse fracture. The knee being slightly flexed, (half way between extension and a right angle,) the patella rests only by a part of its surface, on the condyles, and the apex projecting, unsustained, may be bent down, as it were, by the strain of the liga- mentum patellm. By this flexure of the knee, the chief stress of pressure falls on parts only of the articu- lar faces of the patella, and the strain of ex- tension operates peculiarly across the middle of its anterior surface ; that is, the ligamentum patellae on the one side, and the extensor muscles on the other, instead of drawing on the patella simply in the direction of its long axis, have a tendency to bend each end of the bone backwards ; and (as a stick is broken across the knee), the anterior surface of the bone, though strengthened by a very strong expansion of the tendons, yields transversely, and the complete division of the bone imme- diately follows. It does not appear that a crushing of the under surface, which might be expected, ever takes place in these cases. It is usually said, that when one patella is broken, there is reason to anticipate a similar accident in the fellow'-bone; and experience, in a measure, proves this. The fact is imputed to the lameness resulting from the first acci- dent, and this is not to be disregarded ; but I have been led to suppose that the persons in whom both patellae become broken, (and especially if in consequence of muscular ac- tion,) must have a peculiar conformation of ])arts which facilitates the occurrences as I have above described. Sir A. Cooper relates the case of a young woman in whom both pa- tellrn were broken transversely. Sir A. Cooper also describes the transverse fracture of a pa- tella occurring from simple muscular action, in a lady, which is not cxtrcmcl}' rare. Such facts are rather opposed to the opinion that common muscular force, unaided, causes the fractures in question. Still, violent spasmo- dic action of the extensors, while the limb is perfectly straight, may possibly produce a transverse fracture of the patella; and the muscles may again divide the ligamentous union. It is possible, that a second accident may lead to a transverse division of one of the fragments already united by ligament. I have seen the dissection of an old injury, in which ‘ Hotli patella; arc reported to liaye keen broken by tlie violent spiisinH of the ninscles, in tbc eonstrained attitude required during the operation of lithotomy, at the Hotel Dieii : and a soldier has been known to fracture bis |)atclla in an endeavour to kick bis Serjeant. there were three transverse portions of bone with two intervening ligaments, broad am strong, but near an inch in length. And have seen another, in which there were foil similar fragments united very much in th same way. We often hear or read of the tw( patellae having been broken transversely in tin I same person ; but I never met with but thi \ one instance (in a male, aet. 47), whicl I afforded the figs. 311. All the specimens jus now alluded to are in Guy’s Museum. The separation that takes place belweei the tw'o fragments in transverse fractures o the patella is considerable, and very jiercep tible to the fingers. In the extended positioi ! of the leg, this separation is less than whei I the leg is flexed; the extensors connectei I with the upper portion, no longer resisted In i the ligamentum patellte, being then the soli ! cause of separation : but in flexion of the leg * the ligamentum patellae and the lower frag ' ment attached to it, accompany the motion: ' of the leg, and thus add to the distance be ' tween the fractured surfaces, already occa I sioned by the muscles. j The width of the separation accompanying j such fractures, varies according as the tendi nous expansions of the muscles on either sidt of the patella, are more or less lacerated. Ir the more simple cases of fractured patella, t portion of aponeurosis may escape laceration and limit the division of the fragments tc about half an inch from one another ; and thi: is considered to assist materially towards tlu cure. Sir A. Cooper states that the upper portior may be drawn five inches upwards, when the tendinous covering must of course be pro- portionately lacerated. The instance to whicl he refers is, probably, that of a specimen in tlu museum of St. Thomas’ Hospital. The part; seem to have been long repaired, if I may s( speak, and a broad fascia extends from oiu fragment to the other, and is full five inches in length. It appears, that the violent actioi of the extensors, or a fall subsequent to^ thi fracture, or the inconsiderate bending of tlu knee, may increase the rupture of the tendi nous e.xpansion, and the sejiaration of the frag ments. Subsequently, tlie yielding of tlu new ligament augments the separation. Diagnosis.—A transverse motion, commu nicated to either fragment, excites jiain with out producing crejiitus, as the divided sur faces cannot touch each other. Ihe uppe fragment is the more moveable in all dircc tions. When the tumefaction attendant oi the accident is considerable, thc^ more oiih nary symptoms may be proportionably d^ guised ; but the jialicnt always finds it ditn cult to stand ; and cannot walk, h'p'ij insertion of the extensors of the tibia bomj ^ lost, except in a few cases, where the divisioi ^ of the lateral fascia is partial, and the viehlmi ^ of the upper fragment is consequoutly niuci ^ restrained. Tlie nature of the violence, ani . the sudden lo.ss of jiower of the extcnsois' the slight bending forwards of tlie knee, am i