FRACTURE, 35 it is, that the bands of periosteum wherever they exist are the means of determining the precise outline of the so-called definitive callus, we see a clear proof of the value of the periosteum, and an important source of information as to the method of union to be favoured in particular cases. In the examination of old united fractures in which the external surfaces of the new bone are more or less straight or simply curved, the exact course which persistent bands of periosteum must (according to the displacement, &c.) have taken, is found por- trayed in a very remarkable manner by the different outlines of the new bony surfaces. If the observer is familiar with the cha- racter of united bones, or if my reader will examine the forms which the adjoining dia- grams are intended to represent, there wdll, I think, be no difficulty in explaining all the common appearances in the union of bones, upon the principles which have been here referred to. There are still, however, some results which I believe to depend on other and very different causes. To conclude what has been thus adduced ; if the frequency of the appearances described be admitted, and if the knowledge be deemed essential in practice, the examination is not merely a matter of curiosity; and whether Fig. 24. Fig. 24 represmils reunion of’ a broken femur. At first svjht the upper portion has much the appearance of the bone of a stump, A band of bone is uniting the two fragments as they appear in section., and tfie same thing was erpudly remarkable in the opposite section ; but it is evident that the central dark cavitij being devoid of ossiJv:ation, and open below, we cannot well admit the idea of a solid callus inclosing ttie. two ends; also we see. at once that some cause has determined the e-nstence of ossifw bands at the sides onty and that is where periosteal layers man have continued entire,—(Juy^s Museum. these opinions be true, or not, may be best tested by following the description of parti- cular instances. In the diagram. No. 5, Fig. 22, the bones overlap, and two of the fibrous bands remain unbroken, parallel to each other, uniting the two fragments; and I shall sujipose each layer to have produced an ossific band exactly corresponding to its own extent and direc- tion, and we shall there have, in fact, precisely the bands of bony reunion, that we may every now and then meet with, and which I imagine it will be very difficult to refer to any other cause than the one I have endeavoured to unfold. It is desirable to observe, that often no band or strips will be left to unite the frag- ments ; or that when discoverable they will be chiefly divided, or inefficient; but we have seen that the bands are by no means necessary ; and we have yet to show that another mode of union (by the absorption of periosteum), though facilitated by bands, ma- terially obscures the comprehension of the process already described. The transverse division of a shaft, with some overlapping, often occurs (No. 1. fig. 22), where the torn periosteum, so far from facilitating reunion, might seem at times rather calculated to ob- struct it; either by being interposed in a double layer between the ends to be con- solidated, or by being stript backwards and displaced, so removing vascular supply from the parts most needing it. This will not be found unreasonable or imaginary. Also when a transverse fracture, with complete division of periosteum, has been reapposed without any displacement, the ossific junction may be most feeble and tardj%—since the first injury (the only cause of inflammation) may not be equal to maintaining the activity of the loose periosteum, without tension of bands, or the excitement of occasional motions ; and it is quite evident that motion may excite in- creased ossification, while it yet retards union. If the states we have been considering be attended with a general inclination of fibrous bands from one broken end to the other (as in Nos. 3, 5, and 6, Fig. 22), not only will the union be the stronger, but the denu- dation of the remote angles of the fracture (Nos. 6 and 8, Fig. 22) will facilitate their absorption, which, as jiarts not serving for support, we shall find them otherwise liable to. If, on the other hand, the main direction of the periosteal strips shall be from the points of bony contact (No. 7, Fig. 22), it is manifest that the determination of vascular and ossific action towards these points should be jiropor- tionatcly diminished ; and so indeed it hap- pens. Another remark involves the enquiry What has become of that periosteum whose agency I have hinted may be neither required nor employed in the reparative jiroccss ? In Nos. 4 and 7, Fig. 22, the dotted lines represent rudely, but distinctly, the direction ill which the layers would be most forcibly ex- tended ; and if in any single case a specimen could be produced, having these linos pretty clearly defined in bone, it could, I think, scarcely be doubted, that the outline of the