FRACTURE. 16 of repair will be carried on more slowly, and with more difficulty, than in the opposite state. Certain diseases have been already stated to be, in a peculiar manner, unfavour- able to the production of callus, as rickets, cancer, and scurvy. Lord Anson has re- corded cases in which the influence of the last-named disease was sufficiently powerful to occasion the disuniting of fractures already consolidated. In forming our prognosis, w’e should alwaj’^s take into account the direction of the fracture. Generally, the transverse fracture is of easier cure than the oblique or longitudinal ; unless in the transverse the fragments lie side by side, and cannot be kept in apposition. In very oblique fractures, it is a matter of great diffi- culty to maintain the reduction, on account of the facility w'ith which the fragments glide on one another ; and of the muscles which act on the lower fragment, drawing it up ; and thus the operations of nature are ren- dered more difficult and tedious. Longitu- dinal fractures are nearly always the conse- quence of gunshot w'ounds ; and being there- fore open and complicated fractures, the pro- gnosis is of necessity greatly more unfavourable than in transverse fractures. If a longitudinal fracture, whether caused by gunshot or not, extend, as it often does, into the neighbouring joint; this complication influences the pro- gnosis very unfavourably,because of the pros- pect of acute inflammation and disorganization of the joint. In general, the smaller the bone, the more superficial its situation, and the less it is surrounded by large and powerful muscles, the less serious are the consequences of its fracture. We must except, however, the small bones of the hand and foot ; for these are seldom broken unless by direct violence, which crushes the bones and the soft parts severely, and the accident often terminates in more or less loss of motion. The fracture of a long bone about its middle is less serious than when it occurs towards either extremity. Fracture near a joint, occasionally induces synovitis, and more or less permanent stiffiiess of the joint may be calculated upon after the cure of the fracture. The fracture in the middle of long bones is probably not caused by direct violence, and is, therefore, most likely to be exempt from contusion. More- over, when the fracture takes place about the middle of a long bone, the length of tlie frag- ments affords important facilities for ensuring the coaptation of the fractured surfaces, by the purchase which the fragments offer to the splints, and other parts of the apparatus used to confine them. (Jii the other hand, when the fracture has happened near one extremity ot a long l)one, the shorter fragment gives so inse- cure a hold to the apparatus, tluit it is witli much difficult}’*the surgeon succeeds iii keep- ing it fixed in the situation in which he placed it at the time of the reduction. Wlicn the fracture occurs in the part of a limb having two bones, the gravity of the accident is much less, when one only, than when both of the bones are broken. In the former case not only is the lesion of the bone less extensive, but the unbroken bone, serving as a sj)lint, materially aids in keeping the fragments of the other fixed, and in just rela- tion with one another. It is obvious that the accident will be greatly aggravated by the occurrence of more than one fracture, whether the other fracture, or fractures, take place in the same bone, or in different parts of the same limb, or in different limbs. Boyer remarks, that when the femur and bones of the leg are fractured on the same side, it is almost iuipos-- sible to maintain nicely the reduction of the. fracture of the femur, and to procure the knit-- ting of the bone without shortening of the limb.. This is especially true, when the fracture off the bones of the leg is near the knee-joint;: and a similar difficulty arises with respect to the management of the fracture of the bones off the leg, when that of the femur is very near its lower extremity. All the other complications of fracture, of. which mention has been made above, aggra- vate the dangers of the accident, in proportion to their severity. If the contusion accom- panying the fracture is very great, and the ' bone has been broken into numerous splinters,. and the ragged points driven through the skin ; high fever, great constitutional disturb- • ance, and violent inflammation, with abscesses,, are almost inevitable ; or in three or four days gangrene may seize on the limb, and spread- ing to the body quickly occasion the death of the patient. The prognosis is affected most unfavourably by the occurrence of a wound communicating with the fracture, thus making it, what we have termed, an open fracture. This is a serious complication, when it accom- panies fractures which are the result of indi- rect violence,—in which the force producing the fracture not being expended in the rup- ture of the bone, the broken end is driven through the integuments, without suffering much injury itself, or inflicting more on the soft parts than is necessarily occasioned by the violence and laceration attending their simple perforation ; but when, in addition to the wound communicating with the exterior, the soft parts are extensively torn and crushed, and the bone stripped of its periosteum, the difficulty of the cure, and the dangers of the case, are greatly increased. Such injuries will be accompanied, in the first instance, with high inflammation, fever, tumefaction, and pain, and often, in the i)rogress of the case,_ give rise to abscesses, convulsive startings of the limb, displacing, again and again, the reduced fragment ; and even terminate in gangrene. The number and severity of the complications are an index of the danger of the case. When the bone is badly splin- tered, or extensively stripped of its peri- osteum, we may anticipate necrosis, and tedious exfoliations, and the exhausting dis- charge of matter accompanying them. Frac- tures attended with these severe complica-