FRACTURE. 26 flammation, and the deposition of new bone, in the form of spieular exostosis, or a more or less complete zone? The same effeet is more distinctly observed where a new cup is formed in consequence of luxation : we have a cen- tral absorption and surrounding exostosis; and even the head of the dislocated bone suffers absorption from excessive pressure at one central part, while at other parts irritation and consequent hypernutrition prevail. It is needless, but for the advantage of a contrast, to remark, that the slow atrophy of a disused part, as a deserted acetabulum, is not to be compared with,the active process of absorp- tion, which excessive pressure produces by excluding nutrition. 1 do not deem it needful to enquire very precisely into the source of new bone. The material is from the blood of the capillaries, which are in great part supplied from the periosteum, more especially in the adult. Pe- riosteum is nothing specific in essence, since granulation, or any thing else that can adhere to bone, may become in all points of function periosteum. I consider its especial office to be that of furnishing to the bone its neces- sary supply of nutrition, as that of the pia mater to the brain : it is the princijial means of vascular support to the bone, and is placed on the surface where we should expect to find it, because there most needed ; not interfe- ring with the solidity of the shell, and close at hand to afford nourishment. The tensions which operate mechanically upon a cylindrical bone are most severe at its surface, and in consequence its nutrition and density are here the greatest. I conceive it to be a simple demonstration, on the same principle, that the very growth and form of every bone and process are regulated by the forces to be con- tinually resisted by each particular part. In case of reparation after injury, inflammation is the efficient cause of the deposit, while the presence of organized bone determines the earthy character of the new growth ; and this is not a singular consequence. Do we not see capillary formed from capillary, skin from skin, nerve from nerve, cellular membrane from cellular membrane, tendon from tendon, by the aid of stretching; and when I add, bone upon bone, or even the matter of a finger- nail upon its like, may we not conclude, that we see in all these cases but slight modifica- tions of one law or principle of action ? Beyond the examination of these simple facts, we discover laws relating to primary for- mations, and successive stages of evolution. We may pass over all the reparative actions in bone which do not demand the formation of new bone; such as the fluid node, super- ficial injuries, and even lamellar exfoliation ; although, when we take up the restoration of open fractures, we may require to touch upon these topics. Let us first consider a simple case of bony reparation. After the division of a long bone, by amjni- tation, the injured periosteum becomes in- flamed ; and, within a week, traces of a tubu- lar ring of new bone will generally be found adhering to the shaft near its cut extremity, and sometimes even over its whole length ; but it is longer before the cut end of the bone becomes coated or co- vered in. A slow forma- tion of new periosteum takes place over the sawn surface, and the organization of the bone becomes repaired ; the useless and little nou- rished points are next absorbed; and then a gradual extension of os- sification, following the new periosteum, from the circumference to the centre, seals up the me- dullary cavity. Fig. 14 represents the hone of a hoy's stump, who sur- vived amputation about six weeks. Excessive inflam- mation of periosteum has led to rapid and undtte formation of a new soft shell, earternal to the original shaft. The end of the bone is sealed up, but the material was too spongy and fragile. This lad was twelve years of age; his disease had been a strumous knee. The stump was nearly healed, hut the integu- ments had recently retracted themselves, when re- peated convulsions for three iveeks, and finally coma, carried him off. The end of the bone was coated with cartilage.—Guy's Museum. In proportion as the ossification is rapid, it is also abundant, and soft or spongy, and viceversa. The final healthy ap- pearance of the bone, in section, after amijuta- tion, is that of a thin strong dome, which form I conceive to be determined by the cir- cumstances of pressure M'hich affect the part. It is most wasted and conical when least used ; it is most flat and ex- panded when its freest nutrition is excited by use. To explain my mean- ing as to the formation of the dome, let us sup- pose a circular hole in the summit of the dome, and the whole covered by healthy membrane; is it not evi- l'’ig. 15 is a view of the e.rtreme efieets of periostdis after amputation above the elbow; a new shell, and