FRACTURE. 132 f Smith, of fracture within the capsular liga- ment, one only had been shortened more than one inch; and in this instance the degree of shortening was an inch and a half, but the accident had happened some years previous to the measurement, and the neck of the bone had been absorbed. This is certainly an im- portant statement; tending to modify the ge- neral inference from that of Sir A. Cooper. The causes of the shortening, as before- mentioned, are the united influences of the muscles and the weight of the body; which are generally easily counteracted by a slight extension, but the deformity returns imme- diately such force is discontinued. Sir A. Cooper considered this feature as an evidence of the accidents, and remarked, that it conti- nues till the muscles acquire a fixed contrac- tion. After the shortening has been examined in the recumbent posture, the patient should be supported in the erect position, that it may be further observed how the heel and knee are situated, and how much influence the weight of the limb may have upon the con- traction of the muscles. The prominence of the trochanter major is much diminished when the support and attach- ment of the neck of the bone to the shaft is destroyed by fracture ; the less resisted mus- cles inclining it upwards and backwards to- wards the crista of the ilium : it is, however, readily restored to its original level, by pres- sure in the opposite direction ; and the patient sometimes acquires a voluntary power over the limb whilst it is so reduced. A swelling at the upper and fore part of the thigh, more or less conspicuous as the limb is shortened, may also be observed. The kind and degree of revolution which the great trochanter communicates, when rotated under the hand, as compared with the like in the sound limb, is described as an evidence of the proximity or distance of the fracture from the head of the bone, since the trochanter may turn upon itself, or roll on a longer or shorter radius. All rotation inwards, how- ever, and abduction of the limb also, js parti- cularly painful ; because, says Sir A. Cooper, the fractured j)oints rub against the capsule. Crepitus may be discovered in performing the rotatory motions, especially rotation in- wards, when the limb is not retracted, or when the fractured surfaces arc on a level with each other. It is also often produced by flexing the limb upon the pelvis ; but as the l'*Jih is usually shortened, in the horizontal position, it is seldom observable without proportionate extension. As the severed head of the femur may be capable of following the motions of the shaft, merely from its remaining ])criosteal connexions, it may be necessary (lor precise diagnosis), to fix the head, by pressing on it anteriorly ; or, to give a relatively quicker movement to the shaft (as in rotation), than can be readily communicated to the frirgmcnt in the acetabulum, in order to elicit crepitus. _ Eversion of the toes is a frequent, but n( invariable accompaniment of these fracture The practice of Pare, Petit, and Dupuytrei attest the occasional though extreme rarity ( I inversion. Sir A. Cooper has observed, thi I a period of three or four hours usually clapsf I before eversion is quite manifest; which h considers the result of the more fixed cor tractions of the muscles. The settled resist ■ ance to rotation inwards, he considers as ■ further proof of the contracted state of th muscles, although this may be in part owin to the projection of the neck from the sha: against the ilium. Dupuytren attributes both eversion and ir j version, to the oblique inclination of the frag I ments ; and he expects the one or the othe, i according as the fractured portions respec i lively assume a backward or forward directioi * Bichat was of opinion, that the weight of th : foot might be the cause of the more genen i direction of the toes outwards ; and he object i ed to the imputed influence of the rotator an ; adductor muscles towards such effect, on th ground, that all these muscles, except th quadratus, M’ere in a state of relaxation, fror their attachments being approximated by th fracture^; but the general influence of th' muscles is to draw up the trochanter, and thu to operate against the relaxation of the ro tators, and even augment their influence. Thi flexors of the hip are evertors ; and perhap the most evident invertors are the two ischio tibial muscles ', by which the heel is preventei turning too much inwards, when, the leg, bein' advanced and extended, might obstruct th( other foot, which is next to be set forwards as in running. To obtain an adequate explanation, how ever, of the cause of inversion of the limb the direction of the fracture, in reference t( the attachments of the muscles, must be con sidered. The inversion which attends fracture withii the capsule, still remains to be fully accountei for, but the question to be resolved may bi simply this ; what causes prevent the usua effects of the rotators and gravity in thcsi ■' cases? The answer must depend on specifi' : examinations of the parts injured. Inversion of the loot, arising from fractiin of the neck of the femur, may be distinguish cd from the somewhat similar appearanci which takes place in dislocations upon tin dorsum of the ilium, and into the sciatii notch, by regarding the degree of tin deformity. In dislocation of the femur upoi the dorsum of the ilium, the^ patient beinf erect, the great toe rests against the instej of the other foot ; in dislocation into tin sciatic notch, the great toe is seen resting against the ball of the opposite great toe whilst in fracture of the neck of the femur attended with this rare symptom, the toes arcs ’ It is csspiitinl, in progression, that the toes sliovih tarn ontwiirds and not strike tlie opposite heel: am , eversion is the position of niuseular repose ; for exam- ])le, the position ‘stand at ease.'