FRACTURE. 45 The pasteboard is to be suffered to soak in water till it is so softened, that it can be closely moulded upon the limb. The re- duction of the fracture having been effected, and a single-headed roller applied from the lower extremity of the limb to the upper part of the fractured bone, either separate splints are to be placed round the frac- ture, or, if the form of the part is suffi- ciently cylindrical to admit of it, a single pieee of pasteboard, cut so that when ap- plied it will fit nicely, is to be moulded closely round the fracture ; and in either case the pasteboard is then to be supported by a circular roller firmly applied over it. When the pasteboard dries it forms a firm case, closely fitting the fractured portion of the limb, and capable of very effectually pre- venting the movements of the fragments. In bad fractures this mode of treatment is liable, in some degree, to the objections which I shall by and by urge against the employment of the starched bandage in such cases. The pasteboard splint is ffiso used in a manner similar to that above described, when the fracture is treated with the starched bandage. If splints have been made choice of, and applied as I have described above, it now only remains to tie the tapes by which they are to be secured. Three tapes are usually required for each division of a limb. When the lower extremity is placed ex- tended, with long straight splints, three tapes for the thigh, and two for the leg, are sufficient. When the limb is placed recumbent, the tapes should be laid under the cushion or splint that supports it, ready for use, before the application of the apparatus is begun; in other cases, an assistant must hold the splints, while the surgeon places and ties the tapes in their proper situations. The tapes may be made of narrow strips of linen or calico, or of strong tape. Each tape is doubled, so as to present a loop on one side of the limb, and two tails on the other, one of which the sur- geon passes through the loop, and draws with the degree of force he judges requisite, hold- ing the other at the same time firmly, so as to prevent the yielding of the loop. The assistant now presses a finger on the loop and tail passed through it, to prevent the relaxing of the tape, while the surgeon ties the tails together with a simple and bow knot. In such cases as admit of the application of a circular bandage without disturbance to the fragments, great security may be given to the whole apparatus by now covering it with the turns of a single-headed roller. On all occasions when inllammation and tumefaction of the parts arouml the fracture exist, or may be reasonably anticipated, the utmost care should bo taken not to apjtly the bandages and splints, nor tic the tapes, too tightly. The surgeon should constantly con- sult the feelings ol the patient, and relax the apparatus, if much complaint is made, till the [)rimary inflammatory symptoms have been subdued. By not paying strict atten- tion to this rule in the early part of the treatment, we may aggravate inflammation, provoke spasms, and the formation of abs- cesses, or even occasion gangrene of the limb. The following case came under my care about a year and a half ago :—A country lad, about fourteen years of age, named Peter Doyle, was thrown from horseback on the road. The force of the fall was received on the left hand, and the radius was fractured near the wrist. He was immediately taken to an aj)othecary, who applied a bandage and splints, in such a manner, that the boy suffered great pain during the following night. They were, however, not removed or loosened till gangrene had set in. The accident happened on a Sunday, and the boy presented himself at the Richmond hospital on the following Wednesday morning, at which time he was very dangerously ill. The constitutional dis- turbance was very great. His pulse was 145, and he was delirious at night. The whole left arm was greatly tumefied, and from a little above the fracture to the trunk, tender and tense. The lower part of the fore-arm and hand were livid or chocolate-coloured, and the hand was cold. The back of the hand was tumid from effused fluid. I passed a lancet an inch deep into this part, giving exit to a dark-red serous fluid, but without causing the slightest sensation. The hand was completely mortified. The question of immediate ampu- tation was debated, and decided in the nega- tive, in consequence of the severity of the constitutional disturbance wdth delirium, and the high inflammation of the parts which would be divided in the operation, and the consequent risk of gangrene of the stump, or of phlebitis. It M'as directed that the limb should be leeched, frequently steeped and poulticed, and small frequently repeated doses of calomel, James’s powder, and opium, (the sixth of a grain of the last, and a grain and a half of each of the others,) were ordered. For two or three days the patient’s life was in imminent danger. Coincidently, how- ever, with the commencement of the mercu- rialization of the system an improvement in the symptoms took place. The fever declined, the pulse fell, the delirium disap- pea7'ed, and the tumefaction and tenderness to the touch of the arm diminished. In the meantime the gangrene had extended to within about two inches of the elbow-joint. J'herc, the red line of separation between the dead and living parts was formed, and the case was left to nature till the radius and ulna became completely exj)osed, immediately be- low the living parts. I then sawed through the bones at that point. A small portion of each bone afterwards exfoliated, and the ulcer of the stump slowly closed over what re- mained of them. On examining the morti- fied part, which is preserved in the Museum of the Richmond hos|)ital, it was found that the inferior epijjhysis of the radius hud been rujiturcfl from the shaft of the bone, with very inconsiderable displacement. It can