Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. 8 “ 1. Softening-, erosion, and perforation of the stomach may and do take place after death, in healthy animals killed during the act of digestion. 2. These appearances are owing to the gastric juice, the natural secretion of the stomach. 3. The properties of this fluid, in a stomach which has undergone one or other or all of these changes, do not differ from the pro- perties it possesses in a healthy, living stomach during the act of digestion. 4. Acidity in these two circumstances is an in- variable and essential property of that fluid; and solution of the coats of the stomach, like that of the food, is the necessary consequence—a chemical effect of its acidity. 5. Softening, erosion, and perforation, are produced equally in other organs; such as, the liver, spleen, intestines, diaphragm, peritoneum, and pleura. 6. In all these cases, the gastric-juice is the che- mical agent wdiich produces the oi’ganic injury; its action being regulated by position, gravitation, and imbibition. 7. The effects resulting from the action of the gastric-juice shew themselves not only in a dead animal body, hut likewise as quickly out of the body, in dead organs into which it is in- troduced. 8. All the changes observed in rabbits, whether softening, or erosion, or perforation, are produced after death. 9. The solvent power of the gastric juice cannot be exerted on the living tissues.” The above conclusions, on the whole, have been only cor- roborated since they were put forth. In the course of these pages a few suggestions and modifications will appear; but they are rather in the way of additions than corrections. Dr. Wilson Philip*, who stands above Dr. Carswell in this matter, has fully shewn that, in rabbits, the solvent action is confined to the left end of the stomach; and Dr. Elliotsoii sides with him, in making this inference for the human stomach. The results of post-mortem digestion are fairly ad- duced in proof; and the following fact by Dr. Philip:—“Mr. Hastings, on examining the stomach of a woman wlio had died under his care, found it everywhere in an ulcerated state; * “ On the Vital Functions,” 1817, p. 161. Dr. Philip seems to have erred most in attributing to the nerves what depends on muscular motion and circu- lation.