T FRACTURE. diseases, the process may be retarded ; but when that peculiarity of constitution, which renders the vessels of the injured part incom- petent to furnish bony matter, does not exist, we find generally the deposit of callus to take place, upon the morbid state of system being removed. Schmucker (Verniischte Chir. Schriften, quoted from S. Cooper) found the formation of callus, even in the most simple fractures, sometimes delayed eight months, and, in one example, more than a year ; but all the patients were unhealthy. Even after a fractured limb has become per- fectly firm, and is surrounded by a large mass of callus, it is possible for it to become softened, or even entirely absorbed, during an attack of general fever, erysipelas, or other acute affection. I have, in two or three instances, witnessed the first of these effects produced by attacks of erysipelas in compound fractures, w'hen the disease has prevailed generally in the wards of the Pennsylvania Hospital; and in one instance of simple fracture, have seen a rapid absorption of a large callus, which had produced firm union of a fracture of the lower third of the leg, occur without any apparent cause, to such an extent, as to ren- der the fragments very movable, and necessi- tate a renew’al of the treatment. This ab- sorption, or softening of the callus, has been observed by Mead (Medical Works, p. 442), in a sailor, attacked by scurvy, in whom, three months after firm union of a fractured clavicle, the callus became softened and gave way ; in this case the general affection is stated to have retarded, for more than six months, any new union. In speaking of the effects of the scurvy, besides the case which Lord Anson mentions, of a man on board the Centurion, in whom ‘the eallus of a broken bone which had been completely formed for a long time was found to be dis- solved, and the fracture seemed as if it had never been consolidated;’ another in- stance has been recently observed by Dr. Budd (Tweedie’s Cyclopedia—Art.Scurvy). We find recorded by Desault (Journ. de Chirurg. i. p. 243), the case of a fractured femur occurring in a woman, aged eighty- tw'o, where consolidation took place by the seventy-fifth day, but in whom, two months after, death occurred from severe diarrhoea, and the callus was found completely softened. Morgagni (French Translation, ix. p. 159, Paris, 1820) quotes from Salzmann, the case of a soldier with a fractured tibia, in whom union had become so firm as to allow of his walking u])on the limb without difficulty ; but during an attack of fever, eight months after- wards, the callus was noticed gradually to disappear, so that the ends of the bone became separated. After convalescence, the parts again became firm. Dr. Schilling has seen the callus deposited around the ends of a fractured femur, which had become so firm as to allow the patient to bear some weight u])onthe limb, completely absorbed during an attack of typhus abdominalis. Ten days after the symptoms of this disorder set in, callus could no longer be felt, and the bones moved as easily upon one another as immediately after the reception of the injury. In six days more the patient died. The examination showed no trace of callus, the broken surfaces were bloody, like those in a recent fracture, and were surrounded by a sac-like membrane, which contained some black bloody fluid. (British and Foreign Med. Review', 1840.) Mr. Mantell has recently published the case of a youth, aged seventeen (Lancet, i. 1841-2, p. 58), who, some weeks after the perfect cure of a fractured leg, W’as seized w’ith a severe attack of fever, and upon first leaving his bed after the subsidence of it, the limb bent under him in consequence of the callus having become soft, and giving way. As recovery from the fever proceeded, new callus was formed and reunion of the fracture was effected, though with much deformity of the limb. In the thesis of M. Berard, I find an- other instance, quoted from Bonn, where fever with inflammation and gangrene, occurring in an old man, who had suffered from fracture of the femur, which afterw'ards became firmly united, produced absorption to such an extent, as to allow the fragments to become moveable one upon the other. Dr.Penel (Lend. Med. and Phys. Journ. xiv. p. 29, 1805), Surgeon to the Civil and Military Hospital at Abbe- ville, furnishes the case of an elderly man with fractured thigh, in whom, on the fortieth day, union being solid, the di-essings were removed, and the limb laid on a bolster ; but suddenly the callus was destroyed, and it was necessary to make continued extension to reduce the fractured bones: at the same time the urine w'as observed to deposit a considerable quantity of a greenish sub- stance, which, on examination, was found to be phosphate of lime. Shortly after- wards the fraeture seemed again to consoli- date, the urine, however, remained the same, and was passed in a greater quantity. Two months after the fraeture, the callus appeared a second time firm. The dressings wei’e con- tinued twenty days longer; but two days after their removal, the extremities of the fracture separated, and it w'as necessary again to make the reduction. He now gave the patient Sssof nitric acid daily, when the urine became clearer, and four months after his first recci)tion the dressings were removed and the limb found to be firm. From some cases published by M. Guyot (Arch. Gen. de Med. Feb. 183G), it appears that an inflammatory action in the callus alone, unaccompanied by any other affection, and ensuing several weeks after the accident, occasionally i)roduces softening and absorption of the newly formed bone, and ultimately disunion of the ends. Duverney (Op. citat. ))rcface, Malgaigne, Lancette F'ranyuise, iii. p. 217, 1830), War- drop (Med. Chir. 'I'rans. v.), Kirkbride, (Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences, xv. 1835,) and Vidal, havo all witnessed cases of absorj)- tion of the callus in acute local disorders. This