12 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. On the Safety-Valve of the Dugong. In my first reference to the safety-valve of the dugong a vegetable feeder of the whale tribe—I could only surmise that its peculiar double-pointed heart was designed to aug- ment the refluent function to the utmost, to render both the right and left walls of the ventricle subservient to the safety-valve action. I have now to add, that dissection has verified my anticipation. The following is a description of a Preparation in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. It would be difficult to render it intelligible at first sight; but the reader, who has become acquainted with the account of the parts in the por- poise (as given in Vol. II. of these Reports), may pretty readily comprehend it. In reference to the safety-valve, I think it is manifest that the right ventricle is, in the most marked degree, thin and yielding; and that the separation of the two ventricles in- creases its distensibility considerably. No artificial disten- ding force has been exerted upon the ventricle; and it is evident that its walls are collapsing inwards in many parts and not least at those points where the columns of distention are attached. The whole appearance of the right ventricle, though still large, is that of a shrunken cavity. It does not appear that there is one (“ fixed ”) cord actually inserted into the solid wall: though I may remark, that fixed cords at one point only would interfere very little, if at all, with the forming of an aperture of reflux by distention and gener al traction of the remaining columns. The proper moderator band is large and of great ex- tent, though probably here contracted; but its appearance together with a peculiar muscular valve-cord on the first or great column of distention, and also two large bands in the left ventricle) seems very well to illustrate the opinion which I have formerly advanced, that the moderator band is chiefly concerned in regulating the position of the columns of distention. The inferior attachments of the second and posterior columns of distention point strongly to the inference, that a traction or safety-valve action of these pillars is dependent on their remoteness from the solid septum: and the extended