43 FRACTURE. bears. If the limb is better supported at the extremities of the broken bone than at the seat of the fracture, the fragments will sink at this point, and an angular deformity will oceur. If, on the eontrary, the support fails at the extremities of the bone, an opposite defor- mity will take plaee. When, moreover, the plane on whieh the limb rests does not give it an uniform support, the integu- ments at those points on which the limb espe- cially bears, are liable to inflammation, or even gangrene, caused by the pressure, and accompanied with much pain to the patient. This mischief is particularly apt to ensue at the heel, when the limb, in the extended position, lies unevenly supported on its poste- rior surface. The cushion which immediately supports the limb should be nicely adapted to its form, elevated where the limb presents depressions, hollowed where it presents ele- vations. In treating fractures of the lower extremity according to the ordinary method, whether in the straight posture, or on the double inclined plane, every arrangement should be made to avoid, as far as possible, moving the patient or the limb from the posi- tion given by the surgeon. A bed-pan, when required, should be cautiously slipped under the patient by an assistant. On these occa- sions the patient may be enabled to be of much use to himself, if his bed be furnished with a cylindrical piece of wood, about a foot long, that can be conveniently grasped in the hand. This is to be suspended above his chest by a strong cord, fastened at one end to the middle of the piece of wood, and at the other to a cross-bar of the roof of (he bed, or to a hook in the ceiling. Grasping the piece of wood in both hands, and cautiously raising his body, the patient can very much facilitate the introduction of a bed-pan underneath him, or can slightly shift his posture, when he is suffering from the fatigue occasioned by the long continuance of the same position. By such means, only to obtain some occa- sional relief, by partially supporting the weight of the body, without decidedly chang- ing its posture, may be an inexpressible com- fort ; but the sufferer must be warned against, or even prohibited from, a too free or careless use of this contrivance. The apparatus employed for the purpose of maintaining the reduction consists of ban- dages, compresses, cushions, and splints, with tapes to secure them. The bandages employed in the treatment of fractures are the single-headed roller, and the different modifications of the many- tailed bandage. The single-headed roller is used in fractures of the ribs, clavicle, and humerus; occasionally, for securing the sjilints in other fractures ; and in all the fractures treated with the starched bandage. The single-headed roller (see art. Bandagk, figs. 1*25 & 1;I0) is made of a band of calico or fine flannel, abo\it three fingers’ breadth broad, and of a length varying according to the length and circumference of the limb or part to be covered by its turns. It should be applied so as to cover the limb from its lower extremity to the upper part of the broken bone, each turn covering a half or two-thirds of the preceding. Pains should be taken to make the bandage lie smoothly, by often re- versing it at those parts where the diameter of the limb changes quickly. The principal modifications of the many-tailed bandage are, the eighteen-tailed, Pott’s, and Scultetuss. The eighteen-tailed bandage is made in the following manner ;—three pieces of calico, as long as the part of the limb which is broken, and broad enough to surround this part once and a half, are to be placed on one^ another, and stitched together along the middle line of their length, on which the limb lies when the bandage is about to be applied. Each piece is then to be torn into three strips, on each side, to near the middle line Thus eighteen tails are formed. Those of the piece next the limb are to be made some- what shorter, and those of the outer piece somewhat longer than the tails of the middle piece. In the application of this bandage, the middle longitudinal line of the surface of the limb that rests on the bed is to be made to correspond to the line of the stitch of the bandage ; the two middle tails of the inner piece are then to be neatly applied on the limb ; next, the two upper; and lastly, the two lower: the tails of the middle and outer pieces are to be applied successively, in the same manner. In Pott’s many-tailed ban- dage the tails are stitched to a longitudinal strip of calico or linen, so that they form angles with it salient towards the lower ex- tremity of the limb, and so that they are im- bricated on one another from below upwards. For a figure of this bandage, with the excep- tion of the obliquity of the attachment of the tails to the middle piece. See art. Bandage, fig. 131. Pott ^ himself gives a figure of it applied, in his Remarks on Fractures and Dislocations. The obliquity of the tails is advantageous as it facilitates the even appli- cation of the bandage where the diameter of the limb changes quickly. In the applica- tion of the bandage the longitudinal piece is j)laced under the limb, and the tails are to bo applied from below upwards. Each corre- sponding pair of tails should be of such a length as to be capable of surrounding once and a half the part of the limb, on which they arc to lie. Scultctus’s modification ofthemany- tailed bandage is, in my o])inion, decidedly ])re- fcrable to any of the others. It is ol admi- rable simplicity, ingenuity, and usefulness, not only in a great number of fractures, but in all cases in which it is occasionally necessary oftcntouncovcrthe limb, and in which also the disturbance of it, unavoiilable in removing and rcap|)lying a roller, would bo attended with mischief, and the infliction of pain. This bandage is formed of scj)arate strips of calico, ' Pott’s Cliinirgical Works, vol. i. p. 411. bond. 1711.').