FRACTURE. 137 able prospect of reunion—that there is a large number of fractures across the neck of the femur, the sole repair of which consists in the thickening of the soft tissues about them— that very little is established concerning bony, or ligamentous union of fractures neari;o the head of the femur. Their occurrence is not to be denied, but they cannot ordinarily be anticipated. With regard then to prog?iosis, we may de- termine, as far as the precise seat of the frac- ture is discoverable, the kind or degree of reparation to be anticipated. Of course, the more the symptoms of fracture within the cap- sule are strongly marked, and the more there is of lesion and displacement, the less reunion is to be looked for. In all kinds of cases, shortening, however guarded against, should rather be expected. Eversion is, perhaps, more readily obviated, but, it demands con- stant watchfulness, to prevent its occurrence. With regard to the treatvient of fracture of the neck of the femur within the capsule; the probability of ill-health from long con- finement, is to be weighed against the extreme improbability of effecting any kind of union. That a less degree of lameness is to be ex- pected, according as the consolidation of the parts has been favoured by attention to rest and position, remains to be proved. It has been feebly urged, that the more perfect are the means adopted for apposition, the less n ill be the subsequent lameness; but this leaves the proper method of treatment alto- gether unheeded. In advanced life, fracture within the capsule, attended with a distinct half inch of shortening, has no better prospeet than thickening of the soft tissues around the joint. An unconstrained posture will best suit the health of the patient, and motion will rather tend to increase the repai-ative thick- ening. The extent of injury external to the capsule, which may be doubtful, requires pro- portionate consideration. The fact, that in- flammation, and even suppuration are to be feared in these cases, according to the severity of the injury, the constitution of the sufferer, and to the disturbance caused by the surgeon, is an important consideration. An easy posi- tion, a warm bed, and, in short, comfort, as for a feeble child, are the first subjects for consi- deration. A low form of fever occasionally ushers in a fatal conclusion : good support, therefore, will be very necessary, and it will be borne more easily and advantageously, if all that comfort requires be first attended to. Either the straight posture, as recommended by Desault or Boyer; or the double-inclined plane with the limb flexed, and the patient on his back, may be had recourse to, but with great gentleness. Hagedorn’s plan of fixing the long splint and foot-board to the sound limb, for the purpose of maintaining the right length and position of the injured limb, is preferred in America. A single pillow, placed lengthwise under the whole limb, upon Fig. 55. Fig. 327 shows a com- vwn ajrfiearance of fraclure at the base of the cervix Jhnoris ; out the specimen from which it icas taken af- forded a remarkafdc ptxuliurity. The pa- tient was a man of about seventy years of aye. The neck has, in a manner, slid down over the sluift, which piartly penetrates its cancclii. The bony reunion and thideenwy around was so yreat, a fexc weeks after the accident, that my friend Air. Cock had some susjxicum that the callus, which was fell anteriorly, miyht be the head of the boxie Ilurated. There is much nexD bone about the. tro- clumter minor. There had tsicn distinct short- cnina and eversum of the limb. There is no xu'.ry evident xrastiny oj the neck of the bone.