Bujestive Solution of the (Esophagus. 5 the cardiac end of the tube being naturally somewhat of a spliincter, its contraction may yield only momentarily to the solvent; and, most commonly, its lining is less affected than that of the part immediately above it. It may be supposed that gastric fluids are allowed to regui*gitate, and yet that the tube of the sphincter may not present much, if any, surface to be.permanently acted on. As to the cause of regurgita- tion, it is perhaps chiefly the fixed contraction of the abdo- minal muscles. As to the circle of the oesophagus which was left in the above case, it seems attributable to the simple weight of the heart, which may have kept this portion of the tube comparatively empty of the solvent. In the Museum is an illustration of the cuticular erosion of the oesophagus, and of the smaller degree of destruction at the termination of the tube. (See Preparation 1793^“.) The lowest inch of the oesophagus retains an unequal and ragged lining; but above this, two or three inches of the lining are lost, together with a little of the subjacent tissue. Some spots of cuticle remain, however, prominent and clear, as if they had been protected from the solvent. Case 2. Phrenitis.—Dissolved (Esophagus. Feb. 7, 1834.—William M , aged 39, a well-digger of good character, was assaulted, after paying his men, at a pot- house ; and five days afterwards, he was delirious. He suf- fered much from pain in the head, and was at times confined in a strait-waistcoat: on the fifteenth day he sank, comatose. He was considerably bled and purged and blistered, and took a good deal of calomel. The body was wasted. The ventricles of the brain were much distended with serum. T. he septum lucidum was stretched anci softened; and all the pia mater of the base was, as it were, infiltrated with opaquish fibrine, injected and ecchymosed. 1 he a'sophagus was extensively dissolved ; and the affected cellular membrance in the mediastinum around was (juite carbonaceous in colour, from the action. The viscera of the abdomen were tolerably healthy.