44 FRACTURE. or other material, about three fingers’breadth each, and varying in length so as to equal one and a half the circumference of the limb where the strip is applied. In preparing tlie bandage, the separate pieces are to be laid at right angles across a cushion supported by a splint, or the double inclined plane, begin- ning above. The second strip is to cover a half or two-thirds of the first; the third as much of the second; and so on. The lowest strip is thus the last placed in making the bandage, and when the limb is laid on it, this strip being uppermost, is first applied. Re- moving the stitches and longitudinal band in fig. 131, art. Bandage, this figure will repre- sent Scultetus’s bandage. This bandage pos- sesses all the advantages of the other forms of the many-tailed bandage, with this most important additional one, that any one or more pieces of the bandage may be removed, when soiled with discharge, or otherwise ren- dered unfit for use, and replaced with new ones, without in the slightest degree disturb- ing the limb. To effect this, the new pieces are to be pinned to the old, the pins lying according to the length of the strips, with their heads turned towards, and their points from, the limb. The surgeon then draws out the soiled strip, while an assistant holds the new one gently tense, at the same time pre- venting the displacement of the neighbouring jjieces, by laying one hand across them ; and thus enables the surgeon to conduct the latter precisely into the place of the former, that is, so that it shall lie under the strip immediately below, and upon the one immediately above it. It is often desirable to remove, in this manner, one or more pieces of the bandage, even in cases in which there is no wound or opened abscess to soil them, because the pieces that correspond to the ankle, knee, and groin, are apt to become creased and corded, so that they cannot be neatly and smoothly applied on the limb. By applying the pieces on the limb, where its form renders this necessary, with a certain degree of ob- liquity, the advantage above alluded to, as belonging to Pott’s modification of the ban- dage, may be attained. it follows, from the manner in which the bandage is formed, that the application is to be made from below u]>wards. Each strip is to be applied in the following manner :—An assistant holds one end of it against the sur- geon, who then applies the other on the limb, either transversely, or with more or less obli- quity, according to circumstances, and insi- nuates the extremity of it smoothly under the limb, so as to give it a hold on the jtart. If the sfrij) is not long enough to admit of this, it is too short, and if it is so long that the whole extremity of it cannot be evenly insinu- ated under the limb, a little should bo cut off each end with scissors. The surgeon next takes the tail previously held by the assistant, and ap|)lies it to the limb in the same mannei, and so proceeds till the bandage is exhausted. Any dressings or compresses required at the seat of the fracture, are to be applied before the bandage. The compresses, varying in length, breadth, and thickness, according to circumstances, are to be formed of soft linen or lint. In the early part of the treatment, while there is reason to apprehend the super- vention of considerable inflammation, the compresses should be applied wet with water, an evaporating lotion, or with vegeto-mineral water. In the same circumstances the ban- dage also, in the neighbourhood of the frac- ture, should be similarly moistened. The cushions and splints, which form the next part of the apparatus, vary much in size, length, &c., according to the bone fractured The cushions are stuffed with curled hair, wool, or oat-chaff, and are usually of an oblong shape. For the treatment of fractures the surgeon should be provided with a variety of them, of different lengths, breadths, and thick- nesses, adapted for various fractures. Their use is to enable the surgeon to bind the splints on the limb with sufficient tightness, without risk of injuring it by the pressure of the hard material of which the splint is composed, at the points where the bones approach the sur- face. The curled hair cushion is the best, on account of its combining firmness and elas- ticity. The chaff cushion, which is still in use on the continent, has gone out of fashion here ; yet it possesses one considerable ad- vantage that does not belong to either of the others. When the cushion is not stuffed too full, the chaff can be accumulated at pleasure at different parts of the cushion, so as to adapt its thickness at those parts to the vary- ing circumstances of individual cases. In using the wool or hair-cushion, to attain the same end, w'e are obliged to have recourse to compresses of linen or lint, or pledgets of carded flax, where the inequalities of the limb render them necessary to secure the uniform pressure of the splint on the part over which it is applied. Splints are very various, according to the cases they are intended for, in form, size, and the material of which they arc constructed. Figures of those most approved of by modern surgeons, in the treatment of particular frac- tures, will be given when we come to the individual fractures. Wood, formed into thin and light, yet firm, pieces, sometimes present- ing flat surfaces, sometimes variously hol- lowed to adapt them to the shape of the limb, sheet-iron, tinned or japanned, and pasteboard, are the materials of which splints are made. Far the greater number of frac- tures are treated with wooden splints. Those of sheet-iron are seldom used, except in frac- tures of the log. In most of these case.s, two splints, having somewhat the form of the leg and foot, one for the outside, the other for the inside, and extending from a little above the knee to a little below the foot, are in common use. Pasteboard splints are very commonly used in, and rcmarkal)ly well-adapted to the treatment of fractures in very young subjects.