9 in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart and of frictions, and the continued exercise or rest of the part for a given time;—and again, the state of repletion, tlie nature of the food, the capacity of the veins, with the health, the age, and the sex of the individual. I may venture to express an anticipation, that more care- ful observation, even with the unassisted eye, will detect pulsating veins more frequently than has hitherto been done, and even render this fact available in diagnosis. I would also hope that the' examination of the veins, by the help of the sphygmometer, may become still more generally service- able in practical matters. I come now to the examination of those rare cases of disease in which the venous pulse is admitted to exist by all physicians, although it has been seen but by a very few. The only unquestionable instance, within my own experi- ence, occurred in a patient, of whose history, before and after death, I preserved pretty detailed accounts. Of these, the following is an abstract;— A little girl of eleven years of age, who had suffered both privations and ill treatment, became the subject of purpura in diffused patches, attended with haemorrhages, and a febrile state; during which, on very gently grasping the wrist in feeling the pulse, I observed for several days the numerous and rather full veins of the hand both prominent and beating. There was, in all of them, a very distinct diastole and systole; synchronous, as they seemed, with those of the radial pulse. Tliis patient appeared to be in a convalescent state ; when she was rather suddenly found to grow worse, as if from internal heemorrhage, and was carried off in a few days. In addition to the external bleedings, the post-mortem examination offered the appearance of petechiaj beneath many of the serous membranes. The parotid gland was in a state of suppuration; the lungs were cedematous; and the heart s substance healthy. The blood was watery, and the kidneys were affected with a pale hypertrophy. The earliest notice I have been able to find of a similar case,is that which Haller* has quoted: and single instances * Elementa Pliysiologim, T. II. p. 25(5.