Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. 48 to the amount of their safety-valve action) even beyond that of the human; which, for the present, is placed imme- diately after them, Man and the Quadrumana forming a distinct third series*. After studying the structure in many quadrumana, I find it impossible at present to distinguish, in a satisfactory man- ner, the differences which it assumes in them. The thick- ness and capacity of their right ventricle differ much. The moderator band is visibly and progressively coming forward. The columns of distention are about three in number; but the two anterior of them only are considerable, and more or less inclined to the yielding wall. The variations t which the columns present in different genera, and perhaps even in different species, with regard to length, size, and freedom from the solid wall, form a little set of transitions of consi- derable interest for future inquiry. The parts in the orang satyrusj may serve, perhaps, as a specimen of the medium characteristics of the valve in these varied tribes of animals. The tricuspid valve of the chimpansee is rather more like the structure in man; and, if we may judge from the extent of its anterior column of distention and moderator hand, it will be found to possess a degree of safety-valve action exceeding that of the human heart. Both these simias have their right ventricles capacious and thin; but that of the last appears strong. The next gradation, in an advancing series, would proba- bly be occupied by the human valve; the account of which has been already given §: but to decide on the precise place which each species of animals may claim, will requii’e a very lengthened experience; and, moreover, there often appear to be other intentions or objects to be answ^ered in the arrangement of the tricuspid curtains; as, for instance, whilst one animal may possess a greater extent of safety- * As represented by the column 3. Diagram 1. PI. 2. -}• It has been explained that the human valves differ somewhat; and the same occurs in different individuals of any species, which much increases the difficulty of constructing a scale. J Simia S. § For the simplest form of the human valve, I refer to the little typical specimen, represented Fig. 1. PI. 1; which may also answer, though not strictly, for the formation in the chimpansee.