Mr. King's Case of Disease in the Foetus. 4 cerning the circumstances of the mother, who was under his care, in the neighboui’hood of the Nanty-Glo Iron Worksf. Mrs. Morgan, 27 years of age, of a somewhat strumous appearance, and menstruating at all times irregularly, had been married eighteen months, when she became pregnant for the first time; but although the catamenia were absent, she was not aware of her condition. She appeared to suffer from peritonitis at an early period of her pregnancy, and subsequently continued more or less ailing and deli- cate. A premature parturition was preceded by an attack closely resembling peritonitis, for which she was actively treated. The patient had not supposed herself to be with child, until the time of her delivery. The foetus was born dead, with a full hydropic belly. Nothing else of an unusual nature Avas obsei'ved: the mother recovered naturally. The foetus had been preserved in spirits about three months, and was brought to me in good condition. It was of the male sex. Its age was, perhaps, more than four months; and besides - the distention of the abdomen, there was no evident devia- tion of the external form. The ascitic cavity had become flaccid; but probably contained, when first observed, about a quart of fluid. Its parietes were very considerably distended and attenuated, notwithstanding, some oedema which affected the surface together with the umbilical cord. On opening the cavity, I found the fluid opake, viscid, and of a dusky reddish colour, with numerous soft flakes of fibrinous matter floating in it. The natural gloss of the peritoneum was a good deal destroyed; and the surface was in parts slightly coated, as with fibrine. The liver was reduced, and had become much rounded in figure: its tunic was opake, and somewhat thick. With this organ the bowels were collected into a bunch, in the middle of the superior part of the abdomen. The bladder was large; and extended to the umbilicus, without any appearance of a distended urachus. It may have contained, originally, rather more than half a pint of water. Its coats were decidedly tliick ; and when the dilatation is considered, they ■f JMoiimmithshire.