7 Mr. Kimjs Case of Disease in the Foetus. to the effects in the adult, not where the retention is com- plete, but where it is partial and long continued. I have remarked upon the late stage of progress to which the foetus liad survived, namely, a severe and inflam- matory ascites of considerable standing, as evinced by the contracted liver and general state of the cavity and its con- tents : and the inference which I would draw from these indications, is, that the urinary secretion must be much less irritating than in after-life. After birth, such an extravasa- tion is fatal within a day. In the case in question, if the vesical rupture had produced the ascites, which I can hardly doubt, this last must have existed for several days sub- sequently. The case under consideration seems to shew, also, that micturition is naturally performed in ovo; that is, as far as could be seen, the obstruction to the discharge was the only original defect, and the prime cause of all the visible disease*. was clear, in my opinion, they must have continued to secrete urine till the patient died. ' Fourthly : It is stated, that Dr. Ivanove, of St. Petersburg, ‘‘had dissected a child, born at the full time, who lived forty-eight hours, with the urethra imperforate, the bladder much and the ureters still more distended.” Fifthly : Sir B. Brodie had seen a nearly full-grown male foetus with the orifice of the urethra congenitally deficient, and the bladder, ureters, and renal pelves, all a good deal distended by a fluid which Mr. Brand found to have the other properties of urine, but no uric acid.—{A Treatise on Urinary Complaints, Sj^c., by John Howship, 1823.) Sixthly : A case is quoted from IM. Billiard of a child who died a month old, hydrocephalic, with one imperforate ureter, and the corresponding kidney as large as a goose’s egg, forming a multilocular cyst without re- mains of renal substance.—The opposite organ was hypertrophic. Another case is given from M. Billiard of a still-born male with an enormously distended bladder. The internal, not the external orifice, was closed. The ureters became greatly enlarged upwards; and each kidney was nearly as large as a hen’s egg, lobular, cystlform, and covered with cortical substance. Lastly : There is a sketch, by Mr. Wilson, of a child who lived a quarter of an hour, in whom the kidneys were as large as a man’s fist, gone entirely into hydatids (cystiform dilatations), the ureters exceedingly convoluted and dilated, and the bladder prodigiously enlarged. The waters of the amnion and allantois have been analyzed by nnmeioiis investigators. Vauquelin makes the sj>. g. of the human liquor amnii 1.005, when freed from its insoluble matters; and he agrees with Bostock in stating the soluble contents at less than 2 per cent. These statements