104 FRvVCTURE. Some defined or broad pressure may bend the bones beyond their power of endurance, and cause them to break outwards at a dis- tance from, and perhaps on both sides of the part pressed ; or, more rarely, direct violence drives the breaking bone or one of its frag- ments outw'ards. The comminution and dis- placement are mostly slight. A single rib being /ractured, and well confined between two others, is scarcely capable of displace- ment, It is occasionally somewhat different, as when several ribs are broken together, and perhaps in more places than one. The ribs may be broken by muscular efforts, but, as in the case of all bones, w'e find that the muscles do not produce these fractures most frequently at the time of their fullest development. Under healthy circum- stances, the nutrition and power of the bone and muscle are equal, and on a par with the w'ants of each; fracture, therefore, caused by muscle, seems incompatible here, or nearly so ; but an error in the figure of the bone, or an over-strained position, or slight supple- mentary violence from without, may suffice to induce the fracture. Still, atrophy of bone, or hypertrophy of muscle, in undue proportion, are more commonly present. The cases in which many ribs were broken (p. 241) are illustrations of this view. Case^.—Mrs. R., set. 63, and seemingly older; extremely thin ; and though formerly strong, she had in her latter years experienced ranch increasing debility. In a primary at- tack of bronchitis, on coughing violently in bed, felt “ something crack in her side,” and the fifth and sixth ribs were found to be fractured a little nearer the sternum than the middle of the bones. This patient gradually recovered under simple treatment. Case.— Elizabeth S., aet. 59; similar in aspect to the preceding ; subject to dyspnoea, and painful pyrosis, with constipation; com- plained of cough, which she said was unusual, and an acute pain in the side, having two days before felt something give way in her side. The tenth rib was broken a little ante- rior to its angle; the hinder portion lay upon the anterior, and crepitus was readily pro- duced. A bandage afforded great relief, and she slowly recovered. In cases of suspected fracture, the surgeon, guided by the pricking pain, or the history of the accident, traces along the suspected rib with one or two fingers of both hands, vary- ing the pressure of either, in order to increase the irregularity of the fracture, or to produce crepitus: this also may be rendered evident to the palm covering the injured part during a rather forced respiration, or slight effort to cough. Much intervening fat or muscle, or but small degree of displacement, may render ' Mr. Nankevcll, in tlie Lend. Med. Otiz. .July 25, 183.5, relates these eases, and ho very justly reni.arks, that after a full inspiration the sudden aetion of the recti and oldiqui ahdoininis is amply equal to the effect produced. Ho also warns the ])ractitioncr against mistaking such cases for deeper inflammations. the diagnosis uncertain; but it is an esta- blished rule to treat a suspected fracture as a certain one; and the careful surgeon will be slow to deviate from this injunction. Haemoptysis sometimes accompanies frac- ture of the ribs, in consequence of the forcible concussion, or of a deep puncture, or only bruise of the lung. It forms an additional call for venesection. If a spicula of bone have pierced the pleura costalis, some little blood may escape into the serous cavity ; but this is hardly ever hurtful. Pleuritis is rather more to be feared ; and if the lung also be wounded, we have a remark- able and peculiar train of events. Air escapes into the pleural cavity, the lung collapses,- and very soon the expiratory effort only serves to drive air from the cavity of the pleura into the cellular membrane about the fracture, whence it may be propelled to a great extent beneath the skin of the trunk or even of the limbs. After this, in the repara- tive course of events, inflammation closes the superficial puncture in the lung, and this organ again expands as the gases within the pleura become absorbed, and leave the lung. to be acted on by the expiratory motions. (See Wounds.) The air diffused in the cellular membrane seems quite innocuous, unless by its great quantity ; and although, in truth, the fracture- is open, it would appear that it is only in dis- eased constitutions that serious disorganiza- tions in the chest can arise. Old adhesions ■ betw'een the lung and ribs may prevent or limit the pneuma-thorax ; and we do not know that superficial emphysema can be pro- duced to any extent without collapse of the lung in part or wholly. (See the article Emphysema.) The peculiar feeling of mi- nute weak crackling, w’hich is afforded on pressing any part of the emphysematous inte- gument, can scarcely be mistaken. In the treatment of fractures of the ribs,- rest and the antiphlogistic means are the more requisite, as there is reason to apprehend injury and inflammation of the deeper parts. One free bleeding should hardly ever bo omitted. A firm broad roller of flannel is to be securely applied around the chest, to con- fine the ribs. A copious purgatioii will con- siderably facilitate the phrenic respiration. A compress on the seat of the fracture Mill probably arrest the progress of emphysema. It should be formed so broad as not to de- press the broken bones ; or it might be circu- lar and concave. The bandage requires to be ajiplied almost every day. A strap over the shoulder is sometimes employed to secure it, and various surgeons prefer to have recourse to different kinds of belts, which arc fastenc M'ith buckles or a lace. Mr. S. Cooper re- commends a com])rcss to be applied if disjilaccment be outwards; but there niust^ e some danger of inflaming the surface, or ni juring the lung, if any efficient compression be cmidoyed in such a case; and in geneia no permanent evil results from sue i ‘