57 FRACTURE. be open, and the blood escape from the wound, or, tlie integuments being intact, infil- tration of the cellular tissue with blood, per- haps to a very great extent, take place, serious mischief seldom results. Bleeding from the arm, and cold topical applications, in the first in- stance, and afterwards the use of any resolvent lotion, will generally succeed in checking the haemorrhage, and in procuring the absorption of the infiltrated blood. The rupture of a large artery complicating the fracture is a far more serious matter. The diagnosis of this acci- dent often presents much difficulty. If there is an external wound, the colour of the blood, whether arterial or venous, and its flow, whe- ther intermittent or continuous, may satisfy us as to the nature of the haemorrhage. But if the wound in the integuments be small, and distant from that of the vessel, these diagno- stic characters will fail us. Of course, the case in which we experience most difficulty is that in which the skin is entire. A tumour, not accounted for by the existing inflamma- tion, forms suddenly at the seat of the frac- ture, perhaps not for several days after the accident. Is this tumour caused by venous effusion, or is it a diffused primitive false aneu- rism ? If the latter, we may expect to meet with all or some of the following characters— absence of pulse in the arteries of the lower part of the limb,—the branches of the wounded vessel; an obscure sense of deep pulsation in the tumour, or, what is more frequently ob- served, merely a thrill ; the progressive in- crease of the tumour, till it has acquired a greater size, and greater tension, than are likely to attend upon venous haemorrhage. This case was foi’merly classed with those demanding immediate amputation ; but this practice has been, by common consent, aban- doned, since we acquired a knowledge of the powers the collateral vessels possess of main- taining the circulation in a limb, the main artery of which has been obliterated. Boyer says in this case, “ we must not hesitate to cut down in the direction of the wounded artery, and tie it above and below the wound.” MM. Dupuytren and Delpech have success- fully practised the placing a ligature on the wounded vessel at some convenient point above the wound in it. It can admit of no doubt that this practice must, in many cases, be attended with the most considerable ad- vantages. Proceeding according to the ordi- nary method, to secure the artery where it is wounded, we in the first place, if there is no external wound, render the fracture open, and then search for the bleeding vessel among parts so disguised by the infiltration of the cellular tissue with blood, that it is difficult or impossible to recognize them for our guid- ance to the artery. By admitting the air, too, we lose the chance of getting rid of the effused blood by absorption, without inflam- mation and suppuration. I need not contrast with this the simplicity anti facility of the method of proceeding of M M. Dupuyf,rcn and Delpech. We must not, however, follow this method indiscriminately. If there exist a large wound, through which we can have easy access to the artery where it is wounded, we would, of course, secure it there. If, again, the quantity of blood effused is enor- mous, so that we cannot expect its absorption, and have reason to fear that the collateral cir- culation, if no means are adopted to diminish the tension, will be so impeded that the lower part of the limb will fall into gangrene ; I would make a free incision in the direction of the artery, remove as much as possible of the coagulated blood, and tie the vessel above and below the rupture. When a large nerve is torn across, a cir- cumstance of which we are made aware by the paralysis and loss of sensibility of the parts supplied by it; if frequent spasmodic startings of the limbs, severe pain, and high inflammation, follow this accident, we must have recourse to bloodletting general and local, evaporating lotions ; or, if more grateful to the feelings of the patient, large warm poultices, with anodyne stupes, and opium, with or without calomel. When the fracture is comminuted, it has almost always been produced by direct vio- lence. In some fractures of the lower end of the radius, and neck of the femur, the bone is found splintered, though the fracture was caused by coiinter-stroEe. In comminuted fracture, there is always considerable and sometimes excessive contusion and laceration of the soft parts, even to an amount demanding immediate amputation. In cases less severe than these, we may confidently anticipate high inflammation and fever, with the proba- ble formation of abscesses at the seat of the fracture, and in the neighbouring soft parts, and the risk of gangrene, partial at the frac- ture, or engaging the whole of the lower part of the limb. Our first business is to con- sider how we are to deal with the splinters. If there is a wound, through which w'e can ascertain, with the finger or probe, that some of the splinters are quite detached, or so nearly so that we cannot hope for their reunion, these, if not removed, will act as foreign bodies, and provoke and keep up tedious and exhausting suppuration. They must, therefore, be taken away with as much gentleness as possible, and with every pre- caution in withdrawing them, to avoid punc- turing any largo vessel or nerve. It may be necessary to dilate the wound freely, to facili- tate the extraction of the s])linters, and it is always better, perhaps even less painful to the jiatient to do so, than to lacerate the soft parts in their forcible remov.al. The incisions also may be of essential benefit afterwards, by giving easy exit to matter. Whatever splin- ters are found to have extensive connexion with the soft ])arts should bo left, merely taking care, in the reduction of the fracture, to place them as nearly as possible in their natural situations. In the,se, and all other cases ill which the soft parts are so injured that we have good reason to expect the super-