( 40 ) Part II.—OF THE SAFETY-VALVE IN THE MAMMALIA. A GENERAL ANATOMICAL ACCOUNT OF THE VALVULAR APPARATUS, AND THE PRINCIPLE OF ITS GRADATION. I have felt assured, that the experiments which I have per- formed warrant the assumption of a safety-valve action of the tricuspid valve in most mammalia — an action de- pendent upon the arrangement of the parts which, in the foregoing sections, have been called the curtains, cords, and columns of distention*that is-to say, upon the attachments which the valve has towards the yielding wall of the ven- tricle ; and in explanation of this conclusion, I proceed to shew, that we find these same attachments very various in different animals,—^many, or few, or none, according to the following principle. There exists, in the several orders, a moderator hand, or cylindrical cord, of greater or less importance, traversing the cavity of the right ventricle, from near the centre of the septum to the opposite point of the yielding wall. This hand, which is generally considerable, seems of some use, as I have already explained, to moderate the degree of healthy dilatation ; and it is found to be mainly connected with the columns of distention, which are attached about either of its extremities, or intermediately, as the case may be. The curtains of distention, by means of their cords and columns, are attached, in one case, to the left extremity of the mode- rator hand, and into the solid wall: in a second case, they are secured to the middle part of the hand, between the two walls: and in a third case, their attachments are into the yielding wall, at or near the yielding end of the moderator hand. (See Pi. 2. Diagr. 1.) It will be evident, that, in proportion as the columns of distention are attached close to the solid wall, they must be the less influenced by the yielding of the outer wall: and, * In seeking to describe succinctly the operation of unnamed parts, there has been no choice, but to name them ; which I have ventured to do, in accordance with the principle to be maintained. The nomenclature, how- ever, in the case of man, is too simple to be complained of; but as the function, and its appropriate organs, are gradational in animals, it must be expected that the terms will be more or less justly applicable, as the degree of the function may happen to be great or small in any particular case.