FRACTURE. 33 isolated spiculae in soft callus. This has often been asserted as a fact ; but I have never heard that any one has even attempted to demonstrate its reality, with a just notion of the objections and difficulties that the case involves. Every museum contains the alleged proofs of these facts ; but I may safely ask, where is the collection, in which we may find a series of specimens to establish the spontaneous and independent commencement of bony callus,— the successive stages of irregular or accidental callus ? The formation of all bones, by initia- tive points of ossification, follows peculiar laws ; and it is not impossible that the same laws are to be seen in operation in other instances ; but the ordinary rule of repairing fracture is parallel to the growth and not to the commencement of bone ; it is hone upon bone, wherever increased nutrition or inflammation is excited. It is in this stage of the enquiry that I think it desirable to comment on certain mechanical changes, which fracture produces, in the state and relation of the periosteum of the parts concerned ; for these changes will appear to have remarkable influences on the form of the new bone. We may observe, that first, in cases of fis- sured bone the periosteum may remain undi- vided ; secondly, it may be seen merely fis- sured, or, perhaps, slightly torn in one or two parts; thirdly, we may find in simple trans- verse fracture of a long bone, that the perios- teum is completely divided ; fourthly, we may find in a similar case various undivided slips, connecting the two main fragments, or link- ing smaller portions of bone with them. It may almost suffice to refer to the diagrams below for a demonstration of the principal directions which remaining bands must take in ordinary cases. Figs. 22. In th^se diewrams the dolled lines indicate various dire iwnH, winch f racture with dvtphicemcni may nive hand.s of periosteum, and they arc most cerlaMy ti mdxcntions of tke outlines of repairing bone whi formed No. 5 ts drawn with the same view, b. lines are introduced to explain the appearance oftu sides. No. n represents denuded points of bone, out of the influence of periosteum; and thus they usually remain to dfi, or rather to waste. Admittiny that these drawings are exaggerations, I may assure the enquirer that he may find abundant representatives of Nos. 1, 4, 5, fi, 7, and 8, in repaired fractures.