Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Mammalia. 54 in the grades which remain to be successively considered of the class Aves. I can only allude to the progressive deve- lopment of a dilatable pulmonary artery up to this series, and also of venous reservoirs: amongst the last, I rank the innumerable superficial veins of the horse; the elastic reti- cular spleen of herbivorous animals ; the multitude of tor- tuous internal veins of the divers, with the sinuses around the spine and the cell in the liver, which is sometimes larger than the entire heart*. EXPERIMENTS. A sheep was stuck in the usual manner; and, fifteen minutes after, its heart was removed, having scarcely ceased to palpitate. The substance was loose, and the cavity wide. On injecting by the pulmonary artery, the curtains approached each other in a plane; but were very much separated, leav- ing an aperture nearly equal in extent to the disc of a shilling. The moderator hand was about sixteen lines in length, and capable of much greater extension. The heart, at the end of an hour, had so contracted, that its tricuspid valve, when the ventricle was filled, closed neatly, and only admitted three or four thready jets. I infer that some accumulation in the act of dying had distended the cavity. In another animal, twenty-five minutes after it had been stuck, the heart was more than half contracted, and very firmf. Upon injecting, the curtains closed, and formed a * These last statements are supported by Preparations now placed in the Collection of Guy’s Hospital. The accounts that have been given of the veins of diving animals seem only to require the idea of an arrested pulmo- nary circulation to explain the intention of these reservoirs.— See a Paper on the Peculiarities of the Circulating Organs in Diving Animals, by Dr. Houston ; read before the Medical Section of the British Association in Dublin (1835). With reference to the venous system only, the Doctor seems to prove, that the right ventricle fails to propel its blood : and the in- ference which we may safely make, is, that it either contracts on a refluent stream, or it does not contract at all. Not only do we find passive venous reservoirs for delay, but also copious contractile arterial reservoirs, both for general and local supplies of blood during the delay in the lungs. The Museum of Guy’s also affords speci- mens of these. + It happens very constantly, in opening living animals in all respects healthy, that the firmness of the heart is found to vary greatly, as well as the time at which it assumes its tonic contraction.