idth Inferences from the Character of Changeableness. ] 1 circumstances, with regard to the state of air, as well as the freedom and quantity of circulation. But this is only a partial explanation by the way. In the alternations of gout and catarrh, the first disease may he referred to diet, or constipation, or the like; and the latter to the state of the atmosphere, as cold, &c.; while the period of convalescence, which is more or less considerable, depends on the natural efforts of the frame. 3. The remark, that diseases, whose ordinary course is steady, may get worse as it were by leaps, is no doubt true; and again, more vital parts may become affected, and yet these events may be only relapses: for still attention will discover very frequently a tendency to convalescence, even in the course of some of the worst cases. I do not seek to shew that all such cases of recurrent dis- ease are dependent on renewed or superadded disturbance from without; though this is, I believe, the most common cause. We must look watchfully for internal causes: but let us not fail to beware of the external, as temperature, diet, and remedies; and especially to watch lest the latter un- awares serve to augment the patient’s fast-increasing sus- ceptibility to the former causes. There is reason enough to conclude that morbid accumulations and sudden out- breakings* of disease may, at least occasionally, occur in- dependently of external influences. The causes of disease are, however,’separate topics, and demand distinct atten- tion : they can only here be used in the way of passing explanation. 4. With respect to distinct relapses when the restorative processes are in full activity, surely it is reasonable, without pressing these views too far, to assume the concurrence of some fresh disturbance from without;—and as, with regard to * The periodic nature of many and very various seizures seems justly to depend for explanation on the study of what is periodic in the physiological sense: but this, too, is a neglected topic, and would first require to be brought forward ; as the structure of the eye must be learned before its disorders can be understood. Beyond the study of Periodicity, as to disease, there will not remain many residual facts relative to the internal accumulation or evolution of morbid causes ; i,e. not many of an intricate nature.