14 Mr. King on ihe Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. Tlie water-rat of this country, as far as I liave been able to learn, has no peculiarity in the tricuspid, beyond that of the rodentia generally. The tricuspid is a bad safety-valve (if I may so describe it); and like the part in all the rodentia, except the beaver. What compensatory structures may exist, or what states of the animal prevail over the want of a safety-valve, may perhaps be easily discoverable; but it has not been in my power to determine. The suggestions which I have previously made are very likely, however, to involve all the necessary explanation. The digestion of the beaver is more complicated, and probably more copious: that of the rat is most simple. The common otter 1 have found more devoid of the structure of a safety-valve than some pretty true feline animals. Its valve is like that of a dog. Its thorax is capacious; and it is probably true, that the animal is less of a diver than the seal, except at its periods of fasting. The ornithorynchus* is another, and the last apparent ex- ception of which I have any knowledge; but of this I still entertain doubts. Its right valve approaches to that of birds and of crocodiles. I cannot speak of any correlative structures or habits that may assist in determining its actions. My conclusion, from the examination of the part in question, is simply, that, like the closest valve of birds, it is designed for a circulation which is scanty in quantity; but that still it may admit of occasional reflux, at least by the dilatation of the annulus, if not by other specific arrangements. I have not deemed it desirable to enter into anatomical details on the subject of the preceding exceptions, for the same reasons that have deterred me from pursuing the exa- minations more completely. It seems legitimate for medi- cine to make use of comparative anatomy; but it is only for the zoologist to give himself entirely to the study. The inquirer may find the parts under consideration displayed in the Comparative Anatomy Museum of Guy’s Hospital, to- gether with pretty complete illustrations of the whole sub- ject of reflux function. * I have only examined the valve in the ornithorynchus paradoxus.