10 Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. contracted organ; and I have never seen any of this particular kind of solution out of the left end of the stomach which did not seem to me to bear such an explanation. The line of demarkation above described varies conside- rably in extent, and even in site; and I do not know that any part secretes the solvent, besides the cul-de-sac. The line itself, whether narrowly or broadly defined, is charac- terized by digestive softening and discolouration on the left side, and by the absence of these changes, and possibly the presence of a coat of mucus, on the right. It depends on the level of the fluid suspending the solvent at the time of death; the latter being lodged, as in a pouch, to the left of the spine: and its very defined character, in a few cases, may be referred to an unusually strong, and not very pro- tracted, action of the solvent. The appearance is, in part, dependent on the presence of air in the viscus; and, at times, the digestion distinctly affects the whole of the under half of the stomach, i.e. as the body lies after death. When led to a search of the facts, the reader will find some good evidence of the specific action of the left end of the sto- mach in the observations of Hunter and of Carswell; and scarcely less readily in common inspections, at least in this country. I am of opinion that the pathologist should begin with setting down as the result of digestive action, all the discolouration, thinning, softening, and gelatinous tumefaction found in the left half of the stomach ; and the physiologist, all the positive results of experiments on the digestive fluid in man. With regard to the cases in which the interior of the living human stomach has been exposed, it is evident, that in none of them could the right half of the organ have been accessible, on account of its situation; and it is equally certain that the statements of many, as of Dr. Beaumont concerning the young man, St. Martin, refer only to the left side. These observations will often appear to require the distinc- tion which I have pointed out. Dr. Beaumont suspended a little bag of meat in the left stomach of St. Martin, and was surprised to find its contents dissolved almost as rapidly as the food which was left free; whereas, in truth, the bag was con- fined in, or at least very near, the fountain of the solvent. The experimenters on animals with a single and non-cuticjalar