8 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function observe, that whether the veins pulsate by capillary afflux or from adjacent compressions, there is still, by the action of the valves, the same kind and degree of accelerated venous current. When the number and capacity of the veins are con- sidered in relation to the contents of the arterial trunks, we cannot wonder that the communicated effect is slight: and in weighing this, we must remember, that the sphygmometer not only magnifies the extent of the motion, but also, in a certain degree, its rapidity ; so that the venous pulse, when visible to the eye, should be a very deliberate diastole. To the preceding statements I have to add the following facts, which have been observed more recently. In the pur- suit of the same study, I was attending Dr. Bright in his visit to the wards of the Hospital, and found two men with visibly pulsating veins on the backs of their hands. They were both five-and-thirty years of age. The first presented the most striking evidence. The Doctor not only saw, but thought he could feel, the venous diastole; the wrist being all the while embraced with some firmness, to render the veins large. The patient had an hypertropliic heart, and a very powerful pulse : Ms veins were rather few. In the second instance, which was less marked, the man had had renal anasarca for sixteen days. His heart probably was not quite sound. The pulse was soft, and tolerably good. He was perspiring profusely. The dorsal veins of the hand were pretty numerous and large; and they were covered with abundance of hair; which was remarkable, for the reason that the veins not only beat visibly in many places, but that particular hairs, wMch were well adapted for the purpose, seemed to form so many natural sphygmo- meters. It was here also necessary to enlarge the veins by gently grasping the wrist. We may readily perceive a variety of circumstances that must necessarily affect the venous pulse, and the degree of its manifestation. Such are the application of cold or heat, vis d tergo cannot well be separated from the consideration of a collateral impulse, when we endeavour to estimate the forces of the cerebral circula- tion, which is unaided by valves: and other parts afford a similar difficulty ; as, for instance, the vascular tissue of a solid viscus or cylindrical bone.