in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 5 Of the Venous Pulse in Health and Disease.—It is, I believe an old experiment, and one which I have also repeated, to immerse the hand in warm water previous to and during venesection; when the jet of blood is distinctly seen to increase with each arterial pulse. This experiment, per- formed upon the cephalic veins, does not seem to admit of objection. It will not always succeed; and it is not easy to say that the venous and arterial pulses are precisely syn- chronous; but they are equal in regularity and number, which is a sufficient proof that the impulse of the left ventricle is not always completely expended on the arterial or even on the capillary system. I was, some time since, surprised to find, that upon lying on my back in the sun-light, after dinner, the large mesian veins of my forehead were visibly pulsating. They are naturally of full size; and having become distended, a rather slow and slight diastole was seen, by the aid of a mirror, with, or a little later, than each temporal pulse*. There is some danger to the experimentalist, that he may imagine more than is really visible; and many persons might he tempted to charge tliis upon me, when I assure them that, on more than one occasion of unusual vascular excitement, I have also seen the dorsal veins of my own hands beating. I feel, however, now strongly convinced of the fact: and, as I could adduce the testimony of more wit- nesses than myself, I can scarcely doubt, that when many are led to observe closely, the fullest corroboration will not be wanting. With respect, also, to the pulse in the frontal veins—hav- ing seen it repeatedly, and having set others, even children, become filled: from which we infer, that the extent of the arterial influence may be even greater than this when the circulation is less impeded ; and, indeed, we very often see the force of the heart acting with excessive and mischievous violence upon dependent parts. * My meal had scarcely been flnished half an hour: it was a very moderate one, with one glass of porter, and nearly as much water. I repeated this under the same circumstances, having taken water only: my veins still beat. On one occasion having had no dinner, and on others when far from being in a state of repletion, I have found it necessary to elevate the feet (as against a wall) in order to fill the frontal veins by gra- vitation; when the appearance of the pulse has generally been brought out.