Mr. King on the Snfety-Volve in Mammalia. 47 On removing a large and vigorous cat’s heart as quickly as possible after pithing the animal, warm water was injected, or rather poured by the arteries into the ventricles, in suc- cession, with a pressure of a column not exceeding four or five inches in heifflit. The effect was the same as in the O preceding trial, except tliat the regurgitation on the right side was still greater. This experiment was repeated sub- sequently, with the same results, but with the additional trial of the triple valve, during the progress of the tonic contraction of the heart, at intervals; and it was shewn, that not until the rigidity was nearly complete did the cur- tains close with precision. A rather small and young cat had been without food for twenty-four hours, when it was pithed, and the heart im- mediately exposed. It ^was found beating, but unusually empty. On removing it, the right ventricle was injected with warm water to a considerable degree of fulness, and the valve was seen to close with much nicety, but gave a distinct jet of reflux with the systole ; and there were three of these in succession, without any renewal of the contents by injection. The third was very slight, and the contrac- tions were continued very faintly, without reflux. All these experiments, as well as those on the human heart, might admit of minuter detail; but it is impossible, even for one accustomed to physiological experiment, to form an adequate idea of the play of these delicate valves, without witnessing it. Every endeavour in varying the degrees of force, or rather gentleness, and position, serves to prove the nicety of arrangement, and its liability to dis- turbance. I have been compelled to omit, amongst other accounts, those frequent instances in which the hearts of these two first series were found possessing a nicely closing tricuspid. Third Series.—In pursuing these gradations of valvular development from the one last named, that of the lemur, we should perhaps rank next all the genera of Quadrumana; but the varieties which their tricuspid valves present are too considerable to admit of decided arrangement in this place. Some may probably require to be classed amidst the preceding series; and others may claim a place (according