FRACTURE. 121 I Fig. 48. Most museums of ])atbology (.'ontain specimens of fractured pelvis repaired ; but a fatal re- sult is the usual sequel. The tuberosity of the ischi- um, as indeed the whole, is almost exempt from fracture, excepting from the general crushes of the pelvis. When, however, the chief prominence has been detached, the muscles arising from it may draw it downwards, and produce a de- formity which posture could only palliate. FRACTURES OE THE FEMUR. The great importance of the thigh-bone, its frequent liability to fractures at almost all ages, and the extreme degree of de- formity which follows these injuries, together with the in- different success of their treat- ment, as the great majority of specimens in museums testify, render fractures of the thigh interesting to the surgeon above all others. Separation of {he os innominatum into its origmulparts in a young person. Sanson describes the like in the case of a female thirty years of age. The upper rim of the acetabulum may be detached by a forcible impulse of the head of the femur upwards, and cases of the kind are related. The nature of this injury has been said to be a difficult subject of diagnosis; especially with respect to the distinction be- tween the fracture, and luxations of the femur upwards. This fracture is still more a matter of vexation with regard to coaptation, and the subsequent treatment. Sir A. Cooper mentions an instance of this injury; and Mr. Lonsdale another, in which the posterior margin of the acetabulum was broken away, in two pieces, and disjdaced backwards. So far as there is no luxation in such a case, the limb will, of course, be moveable. And the comparative facility of replacing the femur in other cases will, probably, suffice, if not to make the state matiifest, at least to preclude the suspicion of common dislocation. Fractures of the os innominatum may simu- late either luxations or fractures of the femur. Mr. Earle (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. xx.) de- scribes a fracture in two directions through the acetabulum, with comminution and dis- jdacement of ilium and juibis; in this case the toot was everted, the limb powerless, with- out shortening, and the trochanter sunken. Motion caused much sutfering, and crc]»itus about the ilium. Tliese injui'ic's were wc’.ll repaired; but the patient sank under thoracic distiaso. Of fractures of the femur in general, and of its shaft in 2^(i>'ticular. This bone may be broken at any part be- tween its extremities,—every point ot its head, neck, body, and condyles being severally liable to division ; but the most frequent seat of this accident in the adult is about its mid- dle third; the fracture is sometimes double, or even comminuted, though, trom the deej) situation of the bone, but rarely so. The direction of the fracture may be trans- verse ; but generally it is more or loss oblique, and the treatment is rendered proi)ortionately difficult, and ultimate deformity and lameness areproi)ortionatelytobeaiiprehended. Oblique fractures, both from their nature and causes, arc more frcqueidly attended by laceration ; by which the fracture may even be c.vj)oscd; and the dangers of su])puration and necrosis become suporadded. The syini)tonis that characterise the acci- dent arc, acute ])ain at the moment it takes ])lacc ; sudden immobility of the limb on the ])art of the ])atient, with ))reternatural motion of the lower jiortion of the femur when other- wise acted on. We may readily detect short- ening and thickening of the thigh, and mal- ])Osition of the knee and leg. Crepitus is usually well marked, but some- times not until extension or co-aptation has l)ecn efl'ecled. The bone is most accessible to the fingers along its sides; but the usual de- formity of the upjier fragment gliding before the lower is to be sought for by grasping the ))art with the thumb anteriorly and the lingers behind. No writers a|ipcHr to have mentioned