130 FRACTURE. Sir A. Cooper lias made a series of obser- vations on the head of the femur in old ajje, whieh are quite indispensable to our know- ledge both of the fractures, and of the mode of reparation in these parts. “ The neck of the thigh-bone,” he says, “ in persons of middle age, has a close cancellated structure, and is covered with a shell of considerable thickness; but, in old subjects, the cancellated structiu-e degenerates into a coarse net-work, loaded with adipose matter; and the shell which covers it becomes so thin, that when a section is made through the middle of the head and cervix, it is found diaphanous ; of this I have several specimens. As the shell becomes thin, ossific matter is deposited on the upper side of the cervix, opposite the edge of the acetabulum, and often a similar portion at its lower ]jart, and thus the strength of the bone^ is in some degree preserved : this state maybe frequently seen in very old persons. When the absorp- tion of the neck proceeds faster than the deposit ^ on its surface, the bone breaks from the slightest causes, and this deposit wears so much the appearance of an united fracture, that it might easily be mistaken for it. Be- fore the bone thus alters, we sometimes meet with a remarkable buttress shooting up from the shaft of the bone into its head (formed of strong cancelli) giving it additional support to that which it receives from the deposit of bone upon its external surface. But another change is also produced from disease, of which the following is the history. Old, bed-ridden, and fat persons, generally females, often used to be brought into our dissecting room with some of their bones broken, and more fre- quently the thigh-bone than any other, in being removed from the grave. If the cervix femoris of such persons be examined, it will be found that the head of the bone is sunk down upon its shaft, and that the neck ot the thigh-bone is shortened, so that its head is in contact with the shaft of the bone oppo- site to the trochanter minor; and at the point at which the ligament is inserted into the neck of the bone, the phosphate of lime is absorbed, and a ligamento-cartilaginous sub- stance occupies its place; either extending (as a plane), entirely through the neck of the bone, or partially, so that one section exhibits signs of it, and in another it is wanUiig. The bone, in some cases, is so soft and fragile, both in its trochanters and head, that it will scarcely boar the slightest handling ; and the motion of the thigh-bones in the acetabulum is almost entirely lost, so that the ])orsons must have had little use in their lower extremities. In examining the body of an old subject, very much loaded with fat, in the dissecting room ' Sec gcncnil rcniaiks on exciivalion of bone, page 2 It may happen, as from rheumatic inflammation, tliat the ossification on tlie neck, even to the margin of the artiriiliir »hall bcconic cxeesBive ; iiiul even tlie solidity of the eanccllns is in some rast's pic- ternatnial, in connexion perhaps vvilli general preilis- posilion. of St. Thomas’s Hospital, I found that fl gentleman who had dissected one limb, ha cut through the capsular ligament of the hi] joint, and tried to remove the head of th thigh-bone from the acetabulum; but tli nock of the botie broke on the employmei of a very slight force, and, upon a furtht trial to remove it, the bone crumbled unde his fingers. As the other limb was not ye dissected, 1 requested Mr. South, one of oi demonstrators, to remove, with care, the u| ]ier part of the other thigh-bone ; but, a though he used great caution in doing it, h could not remove the bone without fracturin the upper part ot its shaft; but he succeeded in removing the upper jiart of the bone, s-i that it might be preserved ; and of this have given ]>lates. “ We have here then a case in which th i neck of the bone was absorbed, so that tli ^ head was brought in contact with the tre chanter ; in which, most decidedly, there ha not been a fracture, although it had in som i parts the appearance of one ; and in whic the disease occurred in each hip-joint. “ Another case of the same kind was ex amined by Mr. South, M’hich, so far as i ! relates to the softened state of the ujiper par of the thigh-bone was similar to the formerr the heads were spongy, the necks were short • ened, so that there "was scarcely any remain.' ing ; each trochanter was light in weight am very large ; and there was little if any mo tion in either of the hip-joints, so that boti limbs appeared at first sight, as if dislocate on the pubes. But the best specimen of thii state is the following, which I preserve witi the most assiduous care, and value in tlr highest possible degree : I have had fo twenty years in the collection of St. Thomas’- hospital—the thigh-bone of an old person in which the head of the bone had sunk to wards its shaft. 1 have been in the habit o showing this bone twice a year as a specimei how bones sometimes become soft from agi and disease, and from the absorption of thei phosphate of lime, and 1 have frequently cu with a pen-knife, both its head and its con dyles, to show this softened state. On sawing through its cervix, the cartilage, dejnived o- its phosphate of lime, had dried away ii several parts, and the ajtpearance was such that a person ignorant of the change, wouh have declared it to be a fracture ; only, tha ' in some sections the cartilage had taken dil ferent directions, (as a thin ])lane between tin head and neck), and in some the bone wu; not yet entirely absorbed. We have also, ii the museum of St. Thomas’s Hos|)ital, a ske Icton, ill which both the thigh-bones and cad os humeri, arc, in a subject, extremely altcie< by rickets, divided by similar jiortimis of car tilage, in which no ossific matter exists®.” From the above we find the necessity o very imjiortaut distinctions; hirst, relative ti ® Treatise on dislocation and fiwtiirrs of llie joints edited by Bransby Tl. t'oojiei'. <