FRACTURE. 52 sure, so as to form any angle with the leg- l>iece. The suspension cords can also be applied at any part of the apparatus. What- ever obscurity there is in the foregoing de- scription will be removed by a glance at the accompanying figures, taken from the Atlas to M. Mayor’s Nouveau Systeme de Deligation Chirurgicale. Fig. 29. Without denying that M. Sauter’s method is in a great measure free from the objections he urges against the ordinary apparatus, and modes of treatment ; or, that there are cases in which the employment of it would be advantageous; still I do not think it will stand a comparison with any of the other methods described, or that it is at all likely to supersede them in general favour. In a simple fracture of the leg, we may seat the Fig. 30. patient, during the day, in an arm-chair, on castors, with the limb supported according to M. Sauter’s method, on a board suspended by rneans of a frame contrived for the purpose (in the manner represented in fig. 30,) and! in such a case, we may treat the fracture in this way with perfect safety, and thus the patient may enjoy the advantage of moving ai little about his room, and may read or write at a desk. But in all bad cases the insecurity of the fractured limb supported on this appa-- ratus, will, I am persuaded, ever prevent itsi coming into common use, at least in these coun-- tries. I think it right to apprise the reader, that: this opinion is not founded on any experience • I have myself had of evils resulting from the i adoption of this method of treatment, and I am ready willingly to admit, that, in the prac- ■ tice of medicine and surgery, any speculative • opinion, which is contradicted, or even unsup-- ported, by facts, is of very little value. Having thus passed in review these various i methods of maintaining the reduction and co- aptation of fractures, what judgment are we to form respecting their relative merits? With the best consideration I have been able to give the subject, and a good deal of expe- rience in the management of fractures, I have come to the following conclusions. In the great majority of cases the splints and band- ages in common use (with all their advantages of easy adaptation to the varying accidents of the case, and facilities for ascertaining from day to day the condition of the limb, and for dressing wounds, &c.) are to be preferred. In the great majority of cases also, the semiflexed position is to be preferred to the extended, in fractures of the extremities. When we come to consider particular frac- tures, cases will be specified in which it is advisable to extend the limb. In many cases, after all symptoms of acute inflammation have been removed, M. Seutiu’s method may be adopted with safety and advantage, and, in the cases already specified, it is unquestionably an important improvement in this depart- ment of surgery. With regard to the method of treatment with plaster of Paris, so fre- quently adopted in Germany, and that by suspension (M. Mayor’s hyponarthecia), so far as the opinion of one who has not a practical acquaintance with either is worth giving, it is this : that I know of no case in which I would not reject both in favour of one or other of the methods at present in common use in England and France. Having considered the principal methods of preserving the reduction of the fracture, I proceed now to speak of the after-treatment of the case. This must vary, according as the fracture is simple or complicated, and according to the nature and severity of the complication ; the surgeon being constantly on the watch in bad cases, to prevent or remedy the accidents which may occur in such cases. With simple fractures the sur- geon has little to do, after having carefully reduced and secured the broken bone, ex- ^