in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 37 diminished when the injection was repeated the next morning. The parietes of the right ventricle were thick, and the cavity of moderate size. There were two large columns of distention ; and the first had a pretty free mode- rator hand. The bicuspid valve under experiment gave back one or two slight jets: its curtains were somewhat thickened, and perhaps contracted. In this case, two or three old chronic vomicae seemed to be the source of haemoptysis, which became suddenly fatal. There were also some liver and renal affections. The remarks relative to the stronger propulsion of the right ventricle, in the case of Joshua N ■, might apply here; but we must not conclude that the cavity was in- capable of dilating, nor that a very moderate distention would not have produced a copious reflux. A greater degree of fulness, or a less complete tonic contraction, might have left a less accurate valve. I trust that I have thus sufficiently explained the theory of a safety-valve, and the importance of the function, as regards the circulation both in health and disease. For the pathologist, however, much more remains to be advanced: but this must be deferred; as it is more important, at the present moment, to produce some other arguments, which may serve to establish and extend these opinions. As a summary of what has been already stated, I trust there is some force in the following deductions: — That the powers of the venous circulation are variable— sometimes great, and occasionally excessive. That the circumstances of repletion and obstructed respi- ration may alike vary in the same manner. That the right ventricle is liable to varying degrees of distention. Lastly, that the tricuspid valve, naturally weak and im- perfect, closes less and less accurately, according to the increasingMegrees of the ventricular distention. The demonstrative evidence of the last inference may pos- sibly be considered as altogether deficient; but I believe