FRACTURE. G4 considerable portion of bone having been lost on the inner side of the tibia, the broken ends had united at an angle, in the same manner, and from the same cause as an ulcerated spine acquires an irregular form from loss of sub- stance on the anterior part of the vertebrae. The upper part of the tibia had not only- formed an angle at its point of union with the lower portion of the bone, but also deviated from its natural line in relation to the femur. Its head, with the articulatory surface, had been somewhat forced outwards, so that an appearance of obliquity was given to it when viewed from before. In addition to the great deformity of the tibia, the fibula had under- gone a displacement at its upper extremity. Its head had been forced away from its arti- culation with the tibia, and formed an unna- tural prominence, above the usual position, in reference to the tibia. The bearing of this bone was also altered, as appears in the draw- ing. Not having been broken at the time of the accident, it could not yield and form an angle, as the tibia had at the seat of fracture; but maintaining its natural straight line, it had been compelled to alter its line of bear- ing, in compliance with the angular form of the larger bone. The fibula, therefore, pre- served a line parallel to the lower portion of the tibia. Its lower end, being forcibly acted on by the inward inclination of the foot and lower part of the tibia, had carried the upper part outward, and had caused a dislocation of its head, which had undergone some change of form, and possessed a degree of motion not natural to it in its ordinary position. The shortening of the whole limb occasioned by this alteration in form was such as to cause Captain Charlton to walk on his toes ; the heel being raised an inch and a half, when he stood upright. The soft parts had a healthy aspect; and the cicatrix over the bone had not contracted a firmer union to the perios- teum than is usual with wounds situated di- rectly over bone. “ The limb was useless to him, and obliged him to carry it at some distance from its fel- low in the act of progression. “ Sir Astley Cooper was called upon to give Captain Charlton the benefit of his experience. On Wednesday, the 10th of October, he made, with myself, a careful examination of the limb ; and after hearing the history of the accident, and its consequences, he decided that the limb might be restored to a useful state, and that the deformity might be reme- died. He suggested, as the only means of restoration, that the bones of the log should be divided—doubting whether the division of the tibia alone would be suHicient to set the fibula at liberty—but that the tibia should first be divided ; and, if necessary, the opera- tion should be j)erformed on the fibula. As the muscles were not apparently in fault, this course promised our patient relief : they seemefi to have acted otdy from the tibia having lost its suj)port on its inner side, and consequently to have drawn the foot and the lower half of the leg inwards. Their fibres did not appear to have undergone any per- manent shortening. The proposition was at once embraced by the patient, and carried into effect. The tibia was laid bare on its anterior sur- face by a longitudinal incision, nearly four inches long, M'hich traversed the line of the old wound, and allowed the integuments to be detached on each side ; so that the ante- rior spine and the attachment of the soleus M'ere exposed, just above the site of the old fracture. A strong steel grooved director, slightly curved, such as I use in operating for hernia, but narrow, was then passed along the outer surface of the tibia, detaching the tibi- alis anticus, until it reaclied the unyielding interosseous ligament. By a little firmer pressure, the director pierced it close to the bone. With another similar director, and by the same process, the inner and back surface of the tibia was so far detached from its mus- cles, that the ends of the two directors met behind the bone. “ A curved needle, on which was hooked a chain-saw, was then passed along the groove of the outer director, and from thence to the groove of the inner; and its point being brought to view by a pair of dressing-forceps, the saw was adjusted so as to cut the bone from behind. When the tibia was about half sawn through, the saw—as chain-saws too often do, even when lightly used—locked, and became useless : the section of the bone was therefore completed from before by a small common saw. “ Assoon as the tibia was divided. Sir Astley Cooper, taking the foot in his hand, found the lower part of the leg quite free to move in any direction, and that it was unnecessary to divide the fibula. As soon as the tibia was brought into a straight line, the head of the fibula was restored in some measure to its natural position, and ceased to project in the unseemly manner it had done before the ope- ration. The part where the tibia was divided gaped as soon as the bones were straightened ; and the point of contact between the sawn ends of the tibia was but a small portion of its outer circumference. The muscles had, from length of time, acquired so fixed a state, that some force was required to overcome their resistance : for as soon as the hand was removed from the foot, they immediately car- ried it inwards, to its former position. “ The limb was allowed to rest on pillows, without much restraint ; it being thought ad- visable to allow the wound to pass into a healthy state of granulation, before any at- tempt was made to confine the bones with splints. At the end of about ten days the wound had quietly gone through its several stages, and had healed, with the exception of about an inch in the centre : this part con- tinued more or loss open for some weeks, dis- charging a healthy pns, and giving exit to a few minute portions of exfoliating bone. The innammation that succeeded the o|)cration