13 in the Eight Ventricle of the Human Heart of distention* in the great veins and right side of the heart, in the case—which is by no means a supposititious one where, in a healthy person, accident combines the three great causes of internal accumulation ; namely, sudden repletion, exertion, and exposure to cold. And may not the result of an impeded respiration be superadded to this combinationi"? SECT. 2.—CIRCUMSTANCES ILLUSTBATINR ACCUMULATION IN THE BIGHT VENTRICLE. The Living Heart exposed—T\mt the right ventricle rea- dily becomes turgid from obstructions to the pulmonary circulation is well seen in experiments upon the living heart, in situ. The right side begins to swell with the first dis- turbance of the respiration, whether the lungs are kept distended by tying the trachea, or suffered to collapse in opening the chest, or even if an imperfect artificial respira- tion be kept up ; whilst the reduced state of the left side of the heart clearly shews that the lungs transmit but little ^blood. * We may see the veins of the temple or forehead dilate, independently of exertion or disease, dven more than often happens in the depending hand; so that the actual internal pressure, and the compressing power exerted by the skin and coats of the vessels, must be very considerable; and may we not safely conclude, that this fulness extends through the larger veins which lead to the right ventricle ; thus forming a fluid column from twelve to twenty inches high, the gravity and impulse of which are directed upon a cavity, the extent of whose surface may probably vary, in health, between eight and fourteen square inches, and, in disease, from twelve to eighteen? The influence of gravitation'is of course augmented in the in- verted positions of the body. It is, however, impossible to estimate the physiological effect of the accumulated forces of the venous streams, when gravitation, and the natural current, or vis a tergo, may all chance to unite with disturbed respiration, repletion, cold, and exertion, in various or exces- sive degrees, to overflow the right side of the heart. Lastly, the increased feebleness of a distended ventricle, in a state perhaps of fatigue, and the additional resistance afforded by the increased quantity of contents, must still further augment the difficulty. Would it not also appear that any pulmonary turgescence or olistruction must impede the systole ? We shall hereafter have to trace the analogies of the above conditions in animals—in the arrested respiration of the divers, and in the inactivity of many animals under circumstances of repletion, which are variable in some, and in others seem almost habitual. The very different proj)ortions of drink necessary to various kinds of quadrupeds and birds present a similar analogy.