38 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve of the Human Heart. that an accurate knowledge of the structures, and the dif- ferent appearances which they assume, in several particular modes of death, will go very far to establish its justness. The striking and curious varieties presented by the same parts in animals, I have supposed to form the most unexcep- tionable and, indeed, astonishing evidence of the opinions here maintained. The examination of the function under consideration, both in the Mammalia and Birds, has been pursued very much after the same manner as in the human subject. I have had very numerous opportunities of examining the hearts of living animals, by injection ; in- stances of which will be occasionally introduced: but the space obliges me to confine myself as closely as possible to the anatomical exposition of the singular gradations of the safety-valve, which I regard as furnishing the most forcible testimony. PLATE I. Fig. 1. Is taken from a Preparation of the Human Heart at birth. It pre- sents, I think, the simplest characters of the tricuspid valve belonging to the species: it is, however, distended, and the yielding wall, natu- rally thick at this period, somewhat reduced. There are two columns of distention: the anterior one has a distinct and rather limited mode- rator hand, whilst the posterior one depends solely on the yielding wall The fixed curtain is concealed. The references are the same as in Diagram 4 and Fig. 2 ; and it will be found, throughout these descriptions, that the same letter indicates the same part. Fig. 2. Represents the Tricuspid Valve in its closed state, as seen in the right auricle. It is not pretended, however, that this is a strict representation^ the appearance being so transitory and varying. The interior of the auricle is naturally delineated; and the valve appears closing against the current which is escaping from the ventricle just becoming filled. The three curtains form one plane, separated by a fissure, which is here and there distinct; for the scantiness of the valve, as well as its arrange- ment of cords, prevents all tendency to the union of the curtains by flat surfaces, as in the mitral valve. The edges only are approximated, the curtains are flat, and scarcely tense. The fissure is shewn in a mean state of closure. The elfect of any degree of distention be- hind the curtains would be to render them more nodular and irre- gular.