FRACTURE. 128 structed, chiefly for the sake of flexing the limb, often appears to be wanting in a steady support to the fracture ; its capabilities of effecting extension also are extremely limited. It is objected that sloughing often follows the pressure to which a portion of the buttock is exposed by the weight of the body falling upon so limited an extent of surface, and that the patient is, at the same time, less able to vary his bearing on the bed, from the compara- tively unmanageable nature of the apparatus. It is further objected to the double inclined plane, that wdiilst the lower portion of the broken bone, and the leg and foot connected with it are quite fixed ; the upper portion cannot be so secured against the movements of the body, but that the fractured surfaces will ride apart or grind against each other ; and in fractures near the trochanters it be- comes more especially difficult to confine them. In other words, the pelvis and thigh strap are not considered as efficient with the leg bent, as with the long splints and pads, which, applied in the extended posture, may reach to the arm-pit on the one side and the perineum on the other. Fig. 52. S' llwttllll Fig .324 illusirates the. commonest form of fracture of the cervix femork. The plane of separation is sonic- xchat ohVupte, very near the head, and yci periosteal hands maintain some eonncaiun between the sliajt and head. The reparation in such rases is more to be. considered as a feeble process ofivastiny. Further consideration of the advantage and difficulties of particular apparatus ma now be referred to the occasion which th study of each particular kind of fracture wi lead us to. Whether, for any particular kind of case, certain uniform effect may be obtained, by th adoption of any one posture or method of trea: ment, remains to be settled by experience; an I do not doubt that it soon will be, both wit reference to the restoration of a good limb, an the diminution of suffering on the part of thi patient. The only solid foundation for thi. experience lies in a precise discrimination c, cases, and an accurate appreciation of ever rational point which may modify them at th' onset and in their course. With regard to the period at which th thigh should be reduced, after it has beei broken, there may be some question. Ti place the limb in as easy, or as nearly natura a position as may be, is at once desirable An excited condition of the muscles is a jus reason for delay; and the interval should bi employed in mild attempts to subdue it or even in active depletion, when it is to hi feared that inflammatory mis: chief is about to be set up After active depletion or pro tracted wasting, some extensioi may with care be safely employ cd, and will generally be at tended with good success. Fractures of the Keck of the Thigh-bone. The accidents which have generally been designated bj this name include fractures it three distinct parts of the fe mur; in two of which portions union is generally allowed t( take place, as in other fractures by means of callus; in the othet portion, how’ever, the peculiari ty of defective union is gene rally to be met with. Upoi this circumstance, which is suf ficiently important, much ha: been written, but, gcnerall} speaking, too hastily. The first of the three divi sions consists of fractures whicl isolate the head, or a part o it, within the cavity of the joint so as to cut off all source ot lui' trition or reparation, except that from the vessels of the rounc ligament. The second scries comprises lesions between the trochanters, and that ]>art of the bone which is not efficiently covered by vascular tissues. The third set involves injuries of (he tro- chanters and the shaft together. 'Fheso diffe- rent injuries occur sci)arately or conjointly