15 FRACTURE. no longer glide smoothly, but fret as they move. This crepitus is not of unfrequent oc- currence in cases of supposed fracture. It has been compared to the sensation conveyed by pressing arrow-root in powder, or by the fretting of two surfaces of wax drawn lightly along one another. The crepitus of fracture, on the other hand, is grating, harsh, and dry. The synovial crepitus occurs most frequently in the fore-arm. In speaking of crepitus in relation to the diagnosis of fractures of the radius, Boyer ^ thus expresses himself: “ It is proper to observe, with relation to this last sign, that those persons who use their hands in laborious and fatiguing works, are subject to a singular affection of the cellular tissue which surrounds the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor primi internodii pollicis muscles, in which these muscles, having be- come somewhat more prominent than usual, give rise, when they are compressed, to a par- ticular sound, which we might confound with crepitation, and which we cannot better com- pare than to that which starch produces when it is pressed between the fingers. This sensa- tion is so different from the true crepitation caused by the rubbing together of the frag- ments of a fractured bone, that it can never deceive an experienced surgeon, with whom, besides, a single symptom is not admitted to be conclusive.” The attention of the profession has of late years been directed to this peculiar crepitus in the fore-arm by several writers in France. M. Rognetta, Gazette Medicale for Sept. 1834.—M. Gaube, ibid. Feb. 1835.— M. Velpeau, ibid. June, 1835, and M. Main- gault, in a paper read in 1835, before the French Academy of Medicine. The tendinous subacute inflammation of the sheaths of the hand which give rise to a crepitus, is found to be of frequent occurrence in reapers at harvest time, in washerwomen, hatters, dyers, and various other persons whose trades oblige them to put the muscles of the forearm frequently and violently into action. A crepitus very similar to this can be produced in most persons by extending the leg upon the thigh, and then pressing the patella down- wards on the pulley-likc surface of the femur, with two or three fingers jilaced upon its upper edge. 1 have known this to be mis- taken for the osseous crepitus which is the consequence of ulcerative destruction of the cartilage of the patella, and of the part of the femur it plays upon. The false crepitus, though abrupt, is smooth ; it conveys the idea of the movement of polished surfaces on one another, and is so different from the rough, harsh sensation of true bony crepitus, that the experienced surgeon will hardly ever con- found the two. In certain comminuted frac- tures, and fractures where portions, as of the ex- tremity of abone, arc broken off obliquely, cre- ])itus will frequently be rendered manifest by pressing the parts together. In fracture of a ' Hdvcr, Op. cit. tom. iii, p. 2'22. condyle of the humerus or femur, crepitus, which eludes a common examination, may be often detected at once in this way. Where there is a probability of the existence of frac- ture with splinters, this mode of examination should, of course, be practised with great gentleness. M. Lisfranc recommends the application of the stethoscope, either at the presumed seat of fracture, or on some prominent point of bone more or less distant from it, for the purpose of detecting obscure crepitus. I cannot but regard this recom- mendation as frivolous. The real difficulty in such cases always is, to bring the fractured surfaces to rub on one another. If this can- not be done, the stethoscope w’ill give us no information; if it can, the crepitus will cer- tainly be perceived without the assistance of auscultation. It will require very little tact to distinguish the simple rolling of a tendon, or other solid, under the finger, and still less the peculiar crepitation of emphysema. PKOGNOSIS. The prognosis of fracture varies according to very numerous circumstances. It is seldom that the lesion of the bone, considered simply in itself, is attended with serious dangers, and the prognosis is chiefly to be formed upon the consideration of the complications of the fracture. In fractures of the bones that pro- tect the great cavities—the skull and spinal canal, the chest, and the pelvis, how secondary in importance are the considerations that attach to the mere injury of the bone! The real dangers, in these cases, arise from the injury inflicted on the contained viscera at the time of the accident, or from inflammatory actions in the progress of the case. Again, how great is the difference in the se- verity of the mischief in two cases of fracture of the fibula a little above the external malleolus, in which the injury to the bone is the same, but in one of which the violence causing the frac- ture is entirely spent in producing it, w'hile in the other there is subsequently a luxation of the internal lateral ligament of the joint, and of the connexions between the lower extremi- ties of the tibia and fibula, the internal malle- olus being forced through the integuments. The former is one of the simplest, the latter one of the most serious, cases. The dilfer- ence in point of severity between them, is to be referred to the extensive laceration of soft parts, to the wound in the integuments exposing the joint, and the dislocation in the latter case. It need scarcely be stated, that age and health exercise considerable influence on our prognosis. The formation of callus calls for considerable exertion of vital powers; and when these arc vigorous, as in early life, frac- tures become united much more easily and speedily than when they are weakened and impaired, as in advanced years. In like man- ner, in disease, when absorption and nutri- tion, and all the functions languish, the work