Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. \ 1 stomach have observed (when the organ has been filled with solid food) that every part of the ingesta exposed to the lining is found dissolving; but that after death (quickly following a meal) solution seems to advance only in the left half or end of the sac. The explanation of the difference is, that the muscular actions convey the chyme beneath the mu- cous surface, from left to right; and, doubtless, the solid from the right gradually comes towards the left, to be acted on as room is made for it. A modern opinion, that the mucus performs an important part in the solvent actions, seems to me not only devoid of satisfactory proof, but rather opposed to the truth. The mucus is often devoid of acidity, as now and then (all trace of diges- tion being absent, while the mucus may be in excess) the whole stomach is so, and the mucus is not found (unless quite dissolving) on the softened parts; but it is usually abundantly effused where it appears to have acted most efficiently in pro- tecting the subjacent tissue from solution. I have before indicated this, with respect to the oesophagus; and I would add, that it is unnecessary to infer the existence of any'other protective means during life. As the secretion of the solvent depends in part on the presence of food, so we may suppose the production of mucus to depend on the irritation to which the surfaces are liable. It is not necessary to infer that food in the stomach is in- dispensable to the secretion of gastric-juice; for there is, pos- sibly, some kind of truth even in the reverse proposition. Certainly, in the successive periodic exaltations and subsi- dences of each function, the time comes when (with the capacity for food) the saliva and gastric-juice are ready to be produced in the greatest abundance; and if at this time the food be not supplied, the mucous secretions will be digested, as I have seen them acted on in the adult, and even chymified in the fffitus; but no doubt the distention produced by ingesta acce- lerates vascular actions and muscular movements, and thus all the process of digestion is facilitated. We are not to forget, however, that food may be in excess, or taken too soon, as the solvent may be wanting, or not ready. It is understood that the gall-bladder does not become dyed until after death; but one cause ofthis may be, that its whole