Mr. Kiny on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. 11 and yielding of the thin wall cannot alter the situation of the bases of the columns, however it may act in dilating the auriculo-ventricular orifice, which the curtain is destined to close more or less completely. On the other hand, observing the arrangement in the drawing of the beaver, we see the chief muscular columns are secured to the thin wall; which under distention (and it seems very thin and weak) must necessarily draw down the curtains which are connected with these columns, whenever accumulation produces any considerable falling out of the yielding wall. It is observable, that the columns which are thus subject to distention, being widely separated, will also draw the curtains in opposite directions from the plane, in which they close most accurately; and it is to be considered probable that some simultaneous yielding of the auriculo- ventricular orifice serves to increase the passage for reflux.— It only remains for me to ask. Why does this remarkable difference exist ? Why is the beaver the only one, among a great variety of gnawing animals (and I have examined a good many), in which any deviation is made in the form of the tricuspid ? and why does the peculiarity follow the con- formation of other diving animals, and after the manner in which I had hoped to find it?—as I believe the gentleman* is aware, who sent me the beaver for dissection. I indulge myself with one more inquiry. Can it be for any other reason than this, that, as in so many other cases the sus- pension of respiration induces a delay in the pulmonary circulation, an arrangement is contrived, by which the im- pulse of the ventricle should be diverted from the luno-s; while its movements may be still kept up, to be in readiness for the occasion, when the inspiration of air will allow the circulation to proceed.^ A very little reflection will shew that diving is not the only exigency: and I may here add, that the safety-valve of man is very near, in its main characteristic, to that of the beaver. * I am indebted to Mr. Aston Key for this additional and interesting proof ot a safety-valve action.