49 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. valve function, I strongly presume, that, in others, as in man, there will be found a much more delicately-acting valve—one more susceptible of displacement, though inca- pable of admitting the greatest degrees of reflux. At this point, I am again desirous to call attention to the fact, wliich I formerly more fully exposed, that the human heart, subsequent to birth, follows the gradations hitherto described. The gradual wasting (so to speak) and dilatation of the right ventricle slowly withdraw the columns of disten- tion from the vicinity of the solid wall. These gradations are also habitually imitated in the varying physiological conditions of distention or contraction: the expansion may even exceed the natural state, when the still greater degrees of reflux carry on the analogy between this—a state of disease—and the natural condition of those animals which follow in the scale of tliis function. Fourth Series*.—A fourth series of animals is found, in which a valve of a truly tricuspid form is commonly seen ; and in which, for the most part, one large column of disten- tion is implanted into the outer wall, and generally with a long and free moderator band. But all these parts, in the fourth series, are subject to considerable progressive changes. The curtains, which, in their simplest form, begin to resem- ble the crescents of birds, may, on the one hand, shew a tendency to the bicuspid form; or, on the other, the number of divisions may be found increasing. The column of distention may be of good length, or short; and in the extreme case, the cords of distention, from 6 to 12 in number, appear actually to have insertion into the yielding wall (being as it were sessile). In this case, the curtains are uncontrolled by any proper muscle. It is not, I think, to be supposed, that here the columns of distention (as such) are diminishing in number or importance, but rather the contrary; for the single column is more properly the union of a number varying between two and six or seven; and this union cannot interfere with the direct out- ward traction of each one, since the column t is now become * Seo column 4. in Diagram 1. PI. 2 ; and Fig. 3. PI. 2. t Where it is developed. See Fig. 3. PI. 2.