FRACTURE. 58 vention of severe inflammation and fever, if the patient is not enfeebled by age or dis- ease, and has not lost much blood by the accident, we must employ antiphlogistic treat- ment promptly and actively. As soon as he has coni])letely recovered from the shock of the accident, we should take sixteen or twenty ounces of blood from the arm, thus anticipa- ting the first appearance of inflammatory symptoms. General bloodletting may require to be repeated several times. In repeating it we must be guided by the hardness of the pulse, and the severity of the local symptoms. Leeching the part repeatedly, according to the violence of the local symptoms, and satu- rating the compresses and bandage with eva- porating lotions, are very useful auxiliaries. Constant irrigation of the part with cold water answers very well. In the Richmond hospital, a method of effecting this, which is very simple and found to be very efficacious, is frequently practised in cases of this sort, or in any badly contused and lacerated wounds. A little above the part is placed a wide-mouthed bottle, or other convenient vessel full of water, into which are introduced, wet, a number of thick cotton cords, more or fewer according to the size of the part, and the degree of cold and moisture we wish to maintain. The cords must be long enough to extend from the bottom of the vessel, to the different points of the part to which it is desirable to lead the water. The cords are now stretched from tlie vessel to the part, one end of each reaching to the bottom of the vessel and the other placed on one of the points in question. A slow but continuous stream is thus drawn by capillary attraction from the vessel to the part. The quantity of water supplied may be diminished or increased, by raising or depressing the mouth of the bottle, and the water may be kept cold by ice introduced into it, or we may substitute for it an evaporating lotion. The patient’s bowels must be kept open with saline aperients, and he must be strictly confined, till the fever and inflammation have subsided, to a low diet. The disturbance of the fracture in the operation of aperients is a considerable evil ; but this is slight, com- pared with that which would result, in the aggravation of the general fever and local inflammation, from allowing the bowels to remain confined. Besides, the use of the bed-pan, in the hands of a skilful nurse, is an inconsiderable disturbance. Often, it is not sufficient, when the inflam- matory fever, and tlic tumefaction, pain, and heat, about the fracture, subside, merely to discontinue our antiphlogistic measures. In many cases tlie inflammatory fever ol the early stage is replaced by one ot a licctic cha- racter, and the acute local inflammation by a profiisc and exhausting discharge. This change in the circumstances of tlie case calls for a couqiletc change in our system of treat- ment ; and we arc obliged to have )ecotus() to bark, wine, and <lict of a highly nutritious, and easily digestible character. We must, of course, adopt the tonic plan gradually. The precise point in the progress of the case, when the change of system becomes ad- visable, cannot be fixed by description ; but constant attention to the character of the symptoms will prevent any error of conse- quence, either in the way of deferring the change too long, commencing it too soon, or urging it on too quickly. If abscesses form, we must not allow them to enlarge or burrow ; but, as soon as fluc- tuation is distinct, we must open them where the position of the limb will give a depending opening, and easy escape for the matter, and must place compresses so as to prevent the lodgment of pus, and to favour the approxi- mation of their walls. In the onset of all these cases we may with certainty anticipate a considerable degree of tumefaction at the seat of the fracture ; and in consequence we must be careful not to apply the bandage too tightly at first,—to make allowance for its shrinking on being wet with the cold lotion ; and to examine it often to ascertain that the swelling does not cause it to constrict the part, so as to endanger its falling into gangrene. Not un- frequently, on removing the bandage, symp- toms will be discovered having an alarming; similarity with those of incipient gangrene.. The part will be found extensively ecchy-- mosed, yellow, black, and blue, and phlyc-- taenae, filled with a yellow, turbid, or dark-- coloured serum, may be observed scattered I over it. If, however, the vesicles be opened I without removing the epidermis, the bandage replaced lightly, and the treatment already prescribed persisted in, the case may go on. well, and the fears of the practitioner will be soon relieved. Occasionally, as in the worst cases, mor- tification of the lower part of the limb actually takes place, in consequence of the intensity of the inflammation, and in spite, of the best directed efforts of art. Sharp, Pott, Boyer, and alt the best authorities of former times, laid it down as the rule for practice in these cases, that the efforts of the surgeon should be directed solely towards endeavouring to prevent the spread of the gangrene, till nature had established the line of separation between the mortified and living, parts. “ However,” says Boyer, “ it some- times hap])ens that this dreadful evil (gan- grene occupying the whole thickness of a part of a limb) is arrested by the help of art, and by the powers of nature, and then amputatiom of the limb becomes absolutely indispensable. But we should not have recourse to it till the- gangrene becomes defined, and till an inflam- malory circle has formed, which marks the line of demarcation between the living and dead parts. It has been thought possible to arrest the progress of the gangrene, by per- forming amputation as soon as this terrible evil begins to manifest itself; but experience, a better guide than any reasonings, demon-