in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 33 John C , of middle age: examined six hours after death. The right ventricle, especially towards the pulmonary artery, was considerably distended: the tricuspid gave considerable reflux (upon injecting warm water by the pulmonary artery); the parts being warm, and the blood almost entirely fluid. On the following day (the heart being set aside to contract) the valve was still very imperfect; at the same time, the cavity was moderately capacious and thick. The first column of distention had rather a limited moderator hand. A second column of distention was very slender and insignificant, and attached to the solid ivall *. But there was a third column of distention, a good deal con- trolled by the yielding wall. The left ventricle was a powerful and healthy cavity. The general and fatal affections were—Urinary inflam- mations—acute dysentery. The spleen and lungs were also affected. Henry H , aged 26: examined seven hours after death. The heart was excessively distended; even the left side considerably. The tricuspid acted most imperfectly; and the bicuspid was much less accurate and firm than usual. The right ventricle was rather thin, but the left was scarcely so. Besides a slight looseness of the muscular substance, there was no evidence of disease. There was one column of distention, with a long moderator band; and there were two or three other very slight columns. The death of this person was connected mainly with old disease of the knee, leading to amputation seven or eight days before death; and renal disease. William P , aged 24: examined twenty hours after death. The heart was of good size; the right auricle distended, and the ventricle full. The left auricle was rather full, and the ventricle contained but little. The pulmonary artery was full; and bluish, from its transparency. All the valves were healthy in structure. Under experiment, the tricuspid curtains rose into a plane, but their closure * Tliis is quite abiioruial.