FRACTURE. 109 The injury to the scapula consisted of sepa- rations between the spine, with a considerable part of the supra-spinous fossa, and the neck, and the inferior portion of the bone. A line of fracture ran from the posterior costa along the under side of the base of the spine; and another from the superior costa, leaving a little of the supra-s])inous fossa attached to the cervix, and also half an inch of the foun- dation of the root of the spine ; this line ter- minated at about an inch and one third from the glenoid cavity, in a third line, w'hich ex- tended from near the inferior edge of the glenoid cavity more than half way towards the inferior angle, tending to isolate the thick edge of the inferior costa. Thus, I think, w’e may see, that, as the spine and acromion are usually a great pro- tection to the neck, so here it w'as not until the spine was knocked aw’ay that another fracture could traverse its base, or that a fracture across the base of the acromion may be more easily produced by a broad pressure than one across the true cervix. In short, taking a sound scapula in hand, and marking out the zigzag lines and oblique planes which a fracture of the neck must describe, and considering the extremely limited directions in which violence can reach the neck, I entirely discredit the possibility of the frac- ture’s occurrence as a simple injury. Sir A. Cooper’s account, however, oFfrac- ture of the neck of the scapula, is deserving of attention for many reasons ; and it is to be remembered that disease, or peculiar con- formation, may conduce to this fracture ; and we cannot deny that even direct violence may cause it. Sir A. Cooper thus describes these cases:— “ Symptoms.—This accident is much more liable to be mistaken for dislocation than the preceding. When 1 speak of fracture of the cervix scapulae, I mean a fracture through the narrow part of the bone, immediately opposite the notch of the superior costa ; by which the glenoid cavity becomes detached from the scapula, and the head of the bone falls with it into the axilla. The shoulder also falls; there is a hollow below the acromion from the sink- ing of the deltoid muscle ; and the head of the os humeri can be felt in the axilla. “Case.—Mrs. R., in February, 1834, was thrown from a gig by the w-heel running upon a bank. She was sbirmed by the fall, and remained insensible for some little time ; she then found that her head, shoulder, hip, and ankle, on the right side, were much bruised ; so much so that she was unable to move cither ot them, from pain and swelling ; the chief bruise on the shoulder was at the upper and back part. Thinking that the stiffness of the shoulder, as well as of the hip and ankle, arose merely from the bruise, no surgeon saw her until ten days after the accident, when she found that, notwithstanding the swelling had subsided, she was unable to move her arm. Iho surgeon, mistaking the case for dislocation, placed his knee in the axilla, and made violent extension ; finding, however, that upon removing the knee, the shoulder again assumed its original flattened appearance, he said that there was a fracture somewhere, but could not say exactly at what part; he then placed a pad in the axilla, and put on a figure of 8 bandage, confining the arm to the side by another bandage. Swelling and in- flammation about the shoulder-joint followed the use of the extending force, to such an extent as to render the removal of the bandage immediately necessary. Leeches, cold lotions, and strict antiphlogistic regimen reduced this ; and in a week or ten days the bandages were again applied, and continued for six weeks ; being renewed several times duringthat period. At the end of this time all the bandages were removed, and the patient desired gradually to use the arm as much as she was able; she could not, however, use it in the slightest degree, and even the passive motion made use of greatly increased her suffering, and pro- duced several attacks of inflammation of the part. These w'ere reduced as before, and she continued the passive motion, under the di- rection of her surgeon, (notwithstanding that it much increased her suffering,) until July, when the pain which the slightest motion gave her had increased to such an extent that she could bear it no longer. In the com- mencement of August, at the request of her brother, she came to tovvn for further advice, when the state of the case was as follows. “ The right shoulder was flattened, the arm dropped, the coracoid process of the affected side was on a plane nearly an inch lower than the opposite, the head of the bone and edge of the glenoid cavity might be felt in the axilla, and bj”^ placing the finger upon the under edge of that cavity, and raising it, the whole arm was reduced to its natural appearance, and at the same time a distinct crepitus was felt. There w'as some deformity at the top of the shoulder, however, still remaining, from the clavicle having been frac- tured close to its acromial extremity, and from its having united without being reduced ; it was the acromial portion wdiich in this case rode over the end of the sternal. A crepitus was also distinctly felt, by placing the fore and middle finger upon the coracoid process, and the thumb on the back part of the shoul- der, and thus moving the glenoid cavity from side to side, marking the case clearly to be one of non-united fracture of the cervix of the scapula. “ A thick cushion w’as therefore placed in the axilla, and the shoidder being raised to its natural position, a bandage w'as passed under the arm and over the shoulder, being at the same time passed once or twice around the chest to prevent its slipping oflP the shoul- der. “ The arm was confined to the side, and the elbow supported by a pasteboard sling. In this way was the patient made comi^aratively easy, the natural roundness of the shoulder restored, and she was enabled to turn and