FRACTURE. UG e, ts fujileiwd lo the former hy means of the soft leather straps attached to its under surface^ ivhich pass round the lower part of the ley; s ould, lunu- erei\ these straps appear insufficient to fix the iron sole to the foot firmly, cm extra hand, f may be ap- plied in the same manner, efcalioo or linen. “ That done, the surgeon proceeds to the reduction of the fracture, and afterwards adapts the upper extre- mity of the spliid to the pouch cf the thigh-helt, g, h, i; the foot-support being connected until the splint, the cushions, and the anterior, k, and internal splints are to be applied, and the whole fixed by means of the tapes, us in the ordinary bandages for frac- tures of the thigh. Lastly, by turning the winch, 7i, the iron sole is lowered, dru,icing the foot, to ivhich it is attached, along luilh it; the superior extremity of the splint is thus pushed upward, and the member elongated to the necessary extent With a settled opinion in favour of gentle force only, an instrument of this kind may be occasionally very serviceable; it is not incom- patible with some slight flexion of the knee ; and by raising the lower end of the apparatus with the leg, some flexion of the hip may be obtained. 'I'he advocates for the straight position fur- ther contend, that the relaxation of muscle, as by semiflexion, is not the best means of pre- venting the spasm occurring in fractures: when cramps occur in the calf, as in bed, for instance, the person seeking relief, certainly endeavours to stretch out the heel, to press the toes against the footboard, to get out of bed and stand up, or he adopts some such method, having a tendency to elongate rather than relax the muscular fibres : from analogy, therefore, we might infer, that an extended rather than a flexed state of muscles would be better calculated to the prevention of s])asm in fractures. These arguments are, unfortunately, too hasty. The straight position relaxes the ex- tensor, which is by far the strongest muscle of the limb, and does not fully extend the long flexors of the knee, or even those of the thigh; and yet this is the antispasmodic position, be- cause it produces tensions. Again, a person having cramp after dancing, at first stretches the muscle to obviate the distress ; but he soon finds that the least effort of the muscle brings back the cramp, and that a studied qui- escence is the means of preventing a relaj)se. Observing tbe facts in my own case I have certainly found evidence of this. The spasm that depends on inflammation, is, 1 su])pose, not to be obviated by ]>ressure or extension, but rather by rest, depletion, and anodynes. The pressure of a bandage, besides making a littd) steady, is said to diminish the tendency to spasm ; but this requires limitation. There are states of inflammation which pressure only provokes ; and although with feeble nu- trient actions, jmessnre may cause atrophy and feebleness of muscle, it is not, 1 think, certain that in an opposite condition of body, even where there is no evidence of intlam- matory action, pressure would cause (piics- cence. Of course the reader ])erceives that ' Hoc Dr. Cutler’s I’liietical Guide in Drcsbiiig, &e. compression is equally available in all posture: ■ of the limb ; although those who attach mos consequence to relaxing the muscles, rely leas ■ on the influence of bandage. Cases ot fractured extremities have beei published, to show the advantages of th< straight position, aided by active extensioi when necessary, over the flexed or relaxei position : the method is presumed by some to be more in accordance with the physiolog' • of muscular action, and is said to be effectua towards the prevention of spasm, and thi inflammation and fever connected with it. I. would appear also, from some accounts, tha. these unpleasant symptoms, having previously taken place under other treatment, have after wards yielded on the adoption of this line o practice ; the lindi has been found more steady, the bed less irksome to the patient, and tin. change of position has diminished the liabilit; \ to sloughing. All these views, however, may, be fallacious ; a change of posture is often ; good thing in itself; and a fresh and carefu attempt to re-adjust an ill-set limb cannot bi less so. It has been recommended to allow the ])a tient to assume the sitting posture occasion! ally in the course of the treatment, and therr are cases in which this alleviation should no; be withheld. The straight portion of thn, limb admits of this change most readily ; bun no general plan of treattnent necessarily for bids that intervals of repose of this kin(. should be indulged in. Dr. Houston, who sides with Desault as ai ' advocate for the extended posture, make: some modifications in his apparatus. He firs- uses a tailed bandage, the tails of which ma; be two inches and a half broad, and about tw* feet long, lightly and neatly applied round thi limb to steady and support the muscles ; ver; lightly applied, it may be used as a vehicle fo lotions, and may be omitted in cases of com pound fracture for the more ready attentio: to the wound. His two long lateral splint?' made of deal, are from two and a half to thre and a half inches broad, according as the thigV may be deep or otherwise, but equal to eac: other in breadth, that the limb may not turf to the narrow side, and they must be mad sufliciently stout, that they may not bend The external splint is to be made ot sufiic.en length to lie along the side of the abdomen, i order that the point of resistance may be th better secured, and any necessary extensio more effectually exerted : the hole and notc at cither end of this s])lint are to be as reconi mended by Desaidt. Two calico or linen bag. filled with bran, and about ouc-third broade- than the splints, are preferred tor pads by Di Houston. In like manner he prefers th band for counter-extension, to be filled wit bran as a bag, that the groin may not be e.\ coriated ; ami to secure the o])])osition ot th sidint to the side, he recommends the cuds t the baud to be made long enough to ])as^ round the abdomen, after it has been secure to the top of the sjilint. Dr. H. turthcr use