FRACTURE. 34 It is manifest enough when such points as those in No. 8, fig. 22, and various loose spi- cular portions, are seen partially involved in, or projecting from, a newly consolidated mass, that they must produce forms of which it may not be easy to surmise the rise and progress ; especially when absorption also has finally had time to work its remodelling alterations. There is a rare appearance which 1 have met with in repairing fracture, which may ex- plain the foundation of the above considera- tions, and I think, also, place them in a very unequivocal light. For instance, an oblique fracture of the femur with considerable over- lapping of fragments, and but little division of periosteum, shall be affected with violent inflam- mation and tumefaction, and the sufferer shall die of coma after phrenitis, almost before ossi- fication shall be supposed to have commenced. After macerating the parts, a cell of new bone is seen like a swan’s egg, or larger, with thin, delicate, spongy, and fragile walls, irre- gular and somewhat divided by fissures and vacant spaces, enveloping all the fracture, and adhering only around the two shafts at a con- siderable distance from their broken ends, which are totally devoid of ossific changes. This egg-shell could never be made out by sections of soft callus. Traces of the appear- ance described ai’e not very uncommon, and occasionally considerable parts become perma- nent and solid. The phenomenon is only rare as a whole. It is a cast of the inner surface of the periosteum after it has been detached by rapid and excessive inflammatory effusion, and after ossification, beginning where periosteum adhered to bone, had been hastily formed (bone upon bone), wherever a due supply of blood was ready for the purpose. When we find that the outer faces of the new bone assume an irregular aspect, and even throw out spines and other inequalities, we are led to seek for the causes of these varieties, and to enquire what share the peri- osteum may have had in their production. We observe that the bands of membrane may be torn across, and this without inducing any necessary or material inequality either in the direction of the two parts, or in the ossifica- tion which they appear still in a great mea- sure to regulate. We may also trace the circumstances already described where a o-rcater separation has occurred, and a com- mensurate disturbance, or delay, has arisen in the progress of the union; but it is when a divided °band of i)eriosteurn becomes much everted, or even reflected, that some of the most perverted forms of ossification arc ulti- mately found. , external It is, however, a general earthy callus has always one eriostcal) surface ; and without dwelling on . 1 fV»nt mnv hn law, even tL partial, or unreal exceptions, that may be advanced, I have made this statement to facili- tate the explanation of the forms of old callus. The enquirer will not be induced to suppose that the formation of iioriostcum follows that of its bone, although the characters of the membrane, following that of its bone, are ne cessarily changed when growth ceases am unnecessary parts become removed. With regard to the relative position o ! fragments and periosteal bands, the observe ; will find a parallel between No. 4, fig. 22 am 23, and between No. 5, fig. 22 and 24 ; and in the respective drawings are to be seen indi. cations of the sites of active periosteum in th( i surfaces of the new bone. It will be manifest that the course of th«' periosteal bands depends on the particulai- bone broken and the nature of the displace - ments of its parts, and that occasionally there,’ will be various combinations of the particular' instances, which the diagrams explain. Hi will also be necessary to remember, that in eluding the effects of inflammation in sepa- rating the periosteum, the diagrams may bf far surpassed by the realities, as I could full}- and readily prove with the specimens ir:: hand. It is necessary to make allowancef^ also for what I have explained with reference- to the cicatrization or reunion of periostead layers. Now, if it be true, as I do not doubt; Fig. 23. Open fracture of the femur—necrosis and reunion in p ro(/ress.—O ufs Afuse uni. This fipure represents one of the. innumerahle forms of reunion^ ami may so'vc to illw^trate the method oj considering the mirts, in order to erjdain the oriptn and course of the new formations. At the end of each fraijment are necrotic jwrtions in process of separa- tion. The new bonds attached to the Hr ini/, and has nenrtii effected a junction of the two portions. The caiernal sponpi/ tissue indicate.s the new bone., the out- line of which IS ihat of active periosteum. The end of the la rpcrfrapment seems to hax'e been stript of its periosteum, as 'the ovcrlappimj took place; and its < dispdaced membrane seems to liax^e caused the prin- cipal mass of ossification, adherinxjto the upi>er frag- ment. The points in closest pi‘o,ximitx/, and xchxchaie ofnexo bone, were united bxj ligament or membmne.