Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. IG Case 9. Feb. 3, 1842.— Thomas F., aged 31, died of phthisis, with * much indm-ation of the kidneys, and extreme hypertrophy of the liver. Examined twenty hours afterwards: the stomach contained much chymous matter, darkish, watery, and acid- The right third only was feebly coated with mucus: the left third only was acid, after being washed. The termination of the oesophageal cuticle was a little broken and loose; and then a zone of about half an inch was entire; but above this were several narrow lines denuded of cuticle. The little clear fluid in the pericardium was acid; also that in the right iliac fossa; and again, the exterior of the cul-de- sac of the stomach. It did not seem necessary to carry this mode of inquiry further; hut having twice, during the same period, had the opportunity of examining the stomach of animals, I shall state the result. A cat was poisoned with prussic acid, forced into the mouth ; and the stomach was examined twenty-four hours later. To- wards its right end was a decided hour-glass contraction; and there was in all parts a little nearly-digested grey fluid, every- where acid. The mucous coating of the left end was compara- tively feeble; and all the coats were here a little greyish, and discoloured by venous transudation. On being completely washed, and forcibly deprived of the mucous secretion and sprinkled with litmus-cuttings, it became quite apparent, in the course of half an hour, that all considerable re-action was con- fined to the parts to the left of the hour-glass contraction. A young pig was killed by the butcher; and the stomach soon after removed, and gently washed out by a small incision. It was not examined until full four days had elapsed; when being laid open and washed, a slight acid re-action was mani- fest in all parts, excepting the right fourth, which did not act on litmus-paper in twelve hours. In conclusion, I would hope that the following summary of processes are corroborated by what has gone before.