24 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function sions to the feeble or imperfect action of the human tricuspid valve; and some subsequent writers have made a similar admission*. This is a fact which I have stated to be manifest enough, even on making a superficial examination of the part; but especially certain on drawing a careful comparison between the valves of the right and left side. I have shewn, that, upon injecting fluids into the ventricles by their respective arteries (the sigmoid valves being destroyed), the left or bicuspid valve was always seen to close completely and firmly; the curtains being so extensive as to fold together in the form of a cone or wedge within the ventricle, whilst the tricuspid was constantly found in its ordinary state, incapable of preventing a considerable reflux. With every attempt to induce an accurate closure of this valve, its scanty and divided curtains united imperfectly or scarcely met, and were only sufficient, at the best, to form a plane equal to the area of the opening. The construction which I have described, in connection * Dr. Adams of Dublin has expressed a very distinct opinion in favour of a safety-valve, yet without adverting to the cause or the mode^of its operation. * Of the jugular pulse he says : “ To me it appears most probable, that it.- “ results from the regurgitation of blood from the right ventricle into the “ auricle, by which the current descending from the jugular veins is repelled “ back into these vessels during the systole of the ventricle.” Dr. Adams, adverting to the older remark of the imperfect closure of the tricuspid, states very forcibly, “ that, in his opinion, this circumstance has “ not been sufficiently noticed, nor the influence that such a structure may ‘‘ have on the circulation in its natural or morbid state considered. I look “ upon this difi'erence of the valves of the right and left side of the heart to “ be a natural provision, to allow of a partial reflux into the right auricle, “ on those occasions when, from any cause, the passage of the blood through- “ out the arterial opening is retarded. Such a provision was absolutely “ necessary in the right or pulmonary ventricle ; as various natural causes “ must momentarily retard the passage of the blood through-the lungs.”— See the Dublin Hospital Reports for the year 1827, pages 436, 7, S- I am glad to insert these quotations with the first publication of my own views. A Letter from Dr. Adams, during the last summer, was the first inti- mation I received of his opinion; which, however, had been long advanced in his valuable paper, entitled, “ Cases of Diseases of the Heart, with Patho- logical Observations.” I may be permitted to state, that Dr. Adams does not assign any cause for the regurgitation, unless it be dilatation of the auriculo-ventricular aperture. He exposes clearly the facts of delay and accumulation in the right ventricle, and the necessity of a reflux.