FRACTURE. 42 sionally occur, and which have already been adverted to, in which the muscles are in a state of spasm, only to be overcome by force that it would be improper to use,—that might sooner even tear the muscles than overcome their resistance ; and in those cases in which the surgeon does not see the patient till tumefaction, tension, and high inflamma- tion, have occurred, so that the attempt at accurate reduction would he attended with severe suffering to the patient, and the cer- tainty of aggravation of the inflammation ; we must be satisfied to defer the reduction till the urgency of these symptoms has been greatly mitigated by opiates and bloodletting, with other antiphlogistic means. An opinion prevails, that the mode of prac- tising extension and counter-extension, which 1 have recommended, by applying the forces to parts below and above the broken bone, is inconsistent with the manoeuvre which it is often advisable to have recourse to, whereby the muscles that occasion the shortening of the limb are relaxed, in consequence of flexing the different parts of the limb. “ In this country,” says Professor Cooper, “ it is properly inculcated, that one of the first principles to be attended to in the reduc- tion of fractures, is to put the limb in such a position as will relax the most powerful muscles connected with the broken bone ; because these muscles principally impede the reduction, and disturb the ends of the fracture. But, in the French mode of making extension and counter-extension, how can this grand principle be conveniently fulfil- led ? If the extending and counter-extend- ing means are not to be applied to the broken bone itself, but to others which are articulated with it, the limb must of necessity be kept in a straight posture at the time of reducing the fracture ; for were the limb placed in a half- bent state, the extension and counter-exten- sion, as practised by the continental sui’geons, would not be in the same line, and therefore less efficiently and readily accomplished.” From the o])inion expressed in this passage I must entirely dissent. To justify this dissent, I think it sufficient to refer to the description given above of the mode in which extension may be made in fracture of the femur, with the thigh bent on the trunk, and the leg on the thigh, the counter-extending force being aj)plicd to the ])elvis, and the extending to the leg. We might even substitute mecha- nical means for the hands of assistants. We might, without difficulty, draw the uj)per ex- tremity of the flexed leg M'ith jndleys, in the direction of the axis of the lemur, with a force, the only limit to which is the strength of the ligaments of the hip and knee-joints, or rather, of the muscles and other solt parts at the fracture. The same method of reduc- tion may be ])ractiscd with the same facility in any other fracture of the extremities re- quiring it. The use of machinery in aid of the force of the assistants’hands, can iti no case be required or justified ; but if it could. we might apply our extending and counter- extending powers to the ])arts articulating with the lower and upper extremities of the fractured bone, while the limb is flexed, just as efficiently as if it were conqjletely ex- tended ; and I repeat, that the reduction will in many cases be most materially facilitated, by placing the limb in this condition of flexion, before applying the forces by which the reduction is to be effected. There are fractures in which reduction cannot be ac- complished, while the limb is extended, without a force that it would be imprudent or dangerous to employ ; and in which the reduc- tion at once becomes easy, on having recourse to the simple expedient of flexing the joints above and below the fracture, and thereby relaxing the muscles, the spasmodic resistance of which prevented the reduction. The reduction accomplished, we have next to take into consideration the means of main- taining it. This is to be effected by keeping the whole body, the fractured limb, or at least the fractured bone, in a state of rest; by placing the part in a posture favour- able to the maintaining of the reduction ; and by confining the fragments, as reduced, by means of some of the various kinds of apparatus employed for this purpose in different fractures. It is desirable not to confine the patient to bed, when it can be avoided, on account of the injury to the gene- ral health from want of exercise, and other inconveniences in many cases attending a prolonged confinement in the horizontal pos- ture. It is, therefore, chiefly in fractures of the spine, pelvis, and lower extremities, that we confine the patient to bed. Of late years, indeed, means have been devised for treating these last fractures so as to enable the patient to enjoy exercise during their cure, and it cannot be doubted, that this method of treat- ment is, in many cases, attended with import- ant advantages. I shall direct jiarticular at- tention to it when I come to speak of the starched bandage. The semi-flexed position of the limb, so^ often useful in the reduction of fractures of long bones, is in general the best for main- taining it, by relaxing the muscles, the con- tractions of Avhich tend to reproduce the displacement of the fragments. Pott first strongly drew the attention of surgeons to the advantages of the semi-flexed position of the fractured limb ; and since his tinie^ it has been very generally adopted by English surgeons. On the continent, the extended position, in fractures of the lower extremity, was almost universally preferred, till Uu- ])uvtren, not many years since, advocated and adopted Pott’s method, with this diffei- ence, that while Pott iflaced the patient on the side, and the limb on its outer surface, l)u])uvtren jtlaced him siqiinc, with the limb resting on its jtosterior surface. In whatever ))Osture the limb is jflaced, it is of the great- est importance that it should be evenly and uniformly su])ported by the jilauc on which it ^