16 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function tricuspid valve may be slightly imperfect, yet the most complete adjustment which is natural to it as a valve, and the fullest propulsion of blood which the ventricle is capable of in liealth, must give rise to a pretty forcible circulation. We find notwithstanding, at least in disease, that delay and internal accumulation may dilate the right ventricle, and thus the valve may become more imperfect: and I have found, on the other hand, in some cases of impeded circu- lation, that the right ventricle has so increased its power and thickness, as to resist all the unusual disposition to dilatation, overpowering the tendency to salutary regurgi- tation, and greatly troubling the pulmonary circulation. There may be in disease a too powerful valve, as well as a too free safety-valve; and the discrimination of these is, I believe, indispensable in pathology and diagnosis. The morbidly increased power of the right ventricle may fairly be supposed to assist in the unnatural dilatation of the left side of the heart. SECT. 3.—OP THE ADAPTATIONS OF THE RIGHT VENTRICLE. Having considered the external circumstances which affect the fulness of the right ventricle, I come now to speak more particularly of the cavity itself. The Consequences of Dilatation, as seen in Disease.—The first circumstances which led me to the study of the present subject, was the result of the post-mortem examination of a human right ventricle in a state of morbid dilatation. The part is still preserved; and affords conclusive evidence, that the right ventricle is liable to dilatation, and that the dila- tation deranges its valves. The last proposition is thus explained. Tlie cavity is formed by the solid septum of the heart for its inner wall; and by a thinner, more extensive, and yielding layer of muscle for its outer or right wall; whilst each of these walls affords points of attachment to the cords of the valves. The distention of the cavity, operating chiefly upon the weaker pai’ies, carries it outwards, together with tlie cords and cur- tains attached to it: and the parts of the valve being drawn from tlie proper plane of their valvular adjustment, the backward communication into the auricle remains open. (See Diagrams 1 and 2. I’l, 1.)