FRACTURE. longitudinal direction. The lines, a a, also indicate the course o/ transverse fracture, with some one of which the Jissuve.^ 6, is always combined. Sometimes the fracture through the joint is so oblique, that the external or internal con- dyle only is separated from the humerus. In any such case, acute pain mostly at- tends the least movements of the joint. The for e-arm retains a semi-flexed position, and considerable tumefaction round the joint quickly follows. The parts are occasionally so comminuted, and the injury so seriously complicated with laceration and contusion, as to require amputation : but on the whole, the small size of the entire joint, the limited extent of the synovial and cartilaginous sur- faces, and the accessible situation of all the parts with respect to surgical treatment, ren- der all cpes of injury, but those of extreme disorganization, comparatively safe in their results, and the removal of the limb unne- cessary. In the case of separation of the condyles from the shaft of the bone, and from each other, there is more deformity than M'hen a single condyle is detached. In the former case, too, the parts are more moveable, cre- pitus is more evident, and when pressure is applied, in front or behind, in the course of the longitudinal fracture, the fissure is said to be felt widening as the condyles separate. Pronation of the fore arm is observed also most generally to accompany this form of fracture. It almost invariably happens that fractures which are not transverse, or nearly so, involve the synovial cavity adjoining. An oblique line or plane of fracture, extending from above downwards and inwards, may isolate the outer condyle and trochlea; and in this case the posterior muscles of the fore-arm tend to dis- place the fragment downwards and backwards ; or the division may extend diagonally down- wards and outwards, separating the inner con- dyle with the trochlea, and it is drawn downwards and forwards by the musclesarising from it. In the Cyclopedia of Anatomy and Physi- ology, (article 12lbow-joint) Mr. R. Adams relates the case of “ a young woman, who met with an oblique fracture of the external con- dyle of the humerus, near the elbow, when she was only five years of age. The outer condyle and capitulum of the humerus were detached obliquely from the shaft of the bone, and thrown backwards, carrying with them the head and upper extrcmitjy^ of the radius; she now has very good use ol her arm, but in consequence of the accident much deformity exists, particularly when she extends the tore- arm. The obtuse angle, salient internally, which the fore-arm forms with the arm in the natural state, when it is fully extended, and the hand supinated, docs not exist. On the contrary, in this case the salient angle is ex- ternal, and corresponds to the outer condyle and head of the radius, and the retiring angle is placed internally.” In the frm;ture of a single condyle, the parls are not far from being in due apposition,^ vet distinguishable. Desault relates a case of fracture of the ex- ornal coudy e, in which the li.nb was always observed to be rendered supine. ^ The outer condyle may be detached, and with the outer bend of the radius be forced upwards ; and M'hen the internal condyle is broken off, the ulna may lose its natural sun- port and project backward. The sejiaration of the condyles from the humerus just above the joint, is described by bir A. Coojier, as similating a dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards ; and crepitus,. he observes, is generally perceptible on rota-- ting the radius on the humerus. A ready ap- preciation of these circumstances, in the first pai t of the examination, may prevent more ■ painful and protracted attempts to distinguish the nature of the accident. If the case he that of fracture, slight extension restores the form of the joint, but the displacement will recur as soon as the extension is disconti- nued. In most cases of a detached condyle, how- ever, there is but little displacement, owing to the bones being situate between various opposite influences, both of bone and muscle; yet the parts may become separately dis- placed, forwards, backwards, or laterally, either in consequence of great violence or of special peculiarities of external force. When a single condyle is broken off, the extended position will best replace and retain it in its proper position h Two or three splints, kept on by a roller, should be applied according to circumstances. When both con- dyles are separated from the humerus, and from each other, two lateral splints are par- ticularly indicated; but when one only is se- parated, one lateral splint on that side will be sufficient. It is to be remembered, that a position, somewhat short of complete exten- sion, is that which is nearest to a state of repose, and, unless counter-indicated, should be preferred. The condyles being broken from the shaft, a still more flexed position seems desirable. For fractures including the two condyles. Sir A. Cooper recommended the reduction to be effected by bending the arm and drawing it forward, and that it should be afterwards main- tained by applying a roller. The splint is to be one formed at right angles, the upper part being placed behind the upper arm, the lower under the fore-arm; another splint is to be placed on the fore ])art of the upper arm, and the whole secured by straps. Evaporating lotions are to be used, and the arm kept in a sling. To prevent ankylosis, passive motion is to bo gently employed ; at the end of a fortnight if the patient be young, and after three weeks if an adult. If, however, there bo no more active inflammation than is necessary to unite ' Extreme c.xtcnsion, liowcver, tliouch it m.iy serve to draw down the loose condyle, will also press or tilt it forwards.