Mr. King on Disorders which are Variable. 14 materially assist in the discrimination of difficult or doubtful cases. Should it be asked, if I have seen the principle thus employed; the best answer seems to be—“ I think I have seen the cases in which it ought to have been made available.” Here, too, I may remark—as well to apologize for these pages as to maintain their object, — that the more the student*' carries this view with him in reading practical treatises, so much the more, I believe, will he find it indispensable. The sum of the foregoing, in a few words, may be thus stated.—There are indispensable distinctions between vari- able and other diseases; as the simply chronic, the acute, or the malignant; and all these are to be held distinct alike from each other, and from every form of settled disorgani- zation. The several forms of variable disease, whether acute or chronic, illustrate different causes of Variability; and of course, the different prophylactic means, by which, in each particular instance, the innate restorative efforts are most to be facilitated. A reference to Variability will facilitate diagnosis, and cannot be omitted without rendering the treatment of every day more or less fallacious. If it be true, that many diseases are variable, and more- over that most diseases tend to get well spontaneously, which I suppose none will deny; then it needs not to be shewn, that attention to the causes of variability leads directly to cei’tain curative indications ; and it needs not to be shewn that the law which* explains restorative efforts is not opposed to the fact of variability : but it is evident that the law and the fact are essential to each other in the way of illustration. The fact that many diseases are variable, I consider to be a law second only in importance to the most general that medicine embraces. * I am far from applying tliis to those who do not observe for themselves. I would suggest it only as serviceable when the simplicity of the treatises fails under the test of practice.