with Inferences from the Character of Changeableness. 5 in endeavouring to effect this, I may be enabled directly to illustrate the definition of variable affections. In the first place, (omitting, for the present, all reference to carcinomatous or malignant diseases,) I deem it necessary to exclude the idea of a finished or settled disorganization, whether partial or complete. Disease is properly a process something going on: it is the disorder of an action; and not the change in the part acting;—at least, I must assume it to be such. Chronic inflammation, with tumefaction of the liver, is a disease which commonly terminates in an irregu- lar contraction and induration ; and then the disease {called chronic) is ended; and a certain permanent disorganization is established, little susceptible of change in itself, although it may maintain true chronic disease elsewhere, as in the case of ascites. Again, in advanced necrosis, the dead bone is the sustaining cause; and the surrounding induration is a settled result, whilst the disease in operation is ulceration. The reader may attach no importance to this distinction of stages; but he cannot pursue a pathological reflection without the knowledge that primitive morbid actions are simply perverted natural functions; and that the consequent disorganization is often totally different, although far short of destruction. Thus a passage may be closed; a fresh one opened; a new secretion set up; a new joint formed, or an original one anchylosed: but there is a wide difference be- tween these (comparatively) unchanging results, and the morbid actions which induced them. Indeed, no one should hesitate in discriminating between a disease in progress or action, and every kind of finished disorganization ; and it is the more essential to distinguish the two, as they are often intimately connected and variously combined. They are, however, always perfectly distinct, and often independent of each other; though, in particular cases, either one may pro- duce the other and whether they commence in acute, vari- able, or chronic disease, the end may very well be in a con- dition of disorganization which is not materially mischievous or rapidly dangerous; as in contractions of the heart’s valves, thickening of the membranes of the brain, or obliteration of a portion of lung. Very many of the diseases styled chronic proceed variably, or slowly subside; or having sub-