FRACTURE. 49 insertion of the ligament of tlio patella. The parts were but little displaced ; for the first week (and this is the method followed by M. Blandin in the treatment of all fractures) it was merely placed, loosely enveloped, in splints and compresses ; but when the first in- flammation was diminished, it was placed in an extended position, in the immoveable starch apparatus. Soon after this, much pain was felt by the man ; and on the aj)paratus being removed, much swelling was found to exist, and a slough was found over the broken bones. The inflammation then extended down the leg, and abscesses formed in two or three places. These were opened, bnt the sloughing continued, and the patient began to show symptoms of purulent absorption, dry- ness of tongue, black sordes on the teeth, petechiae on the arms, and white vesieles on the epidermis, on the abdomen, chest, and neck, sunken visage, delirium, and muttering, quick pulse, diarrhoea—symptoms which make this disease so remarkably simulate typhus in character. The man lingered several weeks in this state, and did not die until six weeks after the aecident.” The examination of the body, post mortem, proved the existence of phlebitis. The head of the tibia was frae- tured, the fracture extending into the knee- joint, and a great nnmber of small portions of comminuted bone were found lying in it. I have quoted this case as exhibiting an example of the kind of fracture, in which I would give my voice decidedly against the use of the starched bandage. The result of the case no way surprises me; and several similar cases have come to my knowledge, in which the same treatment was followed by various degrees of mischief, greater than necessarily or naturally belonged to the frac- ture ;— high inflammation, and the forma- tion of abscesses, and spreading gangrene of the limb, with the death of the patient;—con- sequences, as I think, fairly attributable to the abuse of the starched bandage, and which might reasonably have been anticipated, as likely to result from it. The cases in which this method is to be condemned are :—those in which the ban- dage might obliterate an interosseous space by its circular pressure, as in the fractures of the fore-arm, or of the fibula, e3i)ccially when this last is broken about two inches above the external malleolus ; and all those in which the fracture is accompanied by any serious complication, likely to give rise to consider- able inflammation and tumefaction of the soft parts. In these latter cases, I am decidedly of opinion that this method cannot, with pru- dence or safety, be employed, till every symp- tom of acute inflammation has been com- pletely subdued. I think it would be a good general rule to follow, not to apply the starched bandage in any case of fracture caused by direct violence. In numerous cases, on the other hand, of fractures of the tibia, femur, and humerus, in which the injury done to the soft parts has been inconsiderable. the method is well deserving of the praises bestowed upon it by its advocates. Lastly, in the cases before alluded to, of fractures in other respects fit for the application of the starched bandage, and in which the patient is, from any cause, unmanageable ; or where the state of his health is such, that long confine- ment to bed would be seriously detrimental to him, or would probably occasion the for- mation of sloughs, or ulcerations over the bony prominences that rest on the bed ; in all these cases this method is assuredly a most important improvement in the manage- ment of fractures. Another method of treatment by irre- moveable apparatus, the principle of which is the same as that of M. Seutin’s method, has been in much favour in Germany, and has been improved, and often adopted by M. Dief- fenbach in Berlin. This method consists in the formation of a plaster of Paris mould around the fractured limb, by which it is of course closely fitted, and confined in the position given to it by the surgeon before forming the mould. The following is the manner of proceeding when this mode of treatment is had recourse to. If the limb be covered with hair it is in the first place to be shaved ; and it is to be smeared with oil, or a mixture of oil and cerate. The reduction and coaptation having been carefully per- formed, and the limb placed in the position judged best by the surgeon, aflat splint, some inches longer and broader than the limb, or the fractured portion of it, is to be insinuated under it; upon this splint two others, one on each side of the limb, are to be placed stand- ing on their edges, and supported by an assistant, at right angles with the former, and at such a distance from the limb as to per- mit the formation of a mould of sufficient thickness and strength. To attain this end, the upper edges of the lateral splints must rise somewhat above the level of the upper surface of the limb ; at the upper and lower end of the splints, tow, or any thing similar, is to be introduced, so as to fill loosely the interval between the limb and the splints. Thus is formed a sort of box or trough, open superiorly, in which the limb lies, and which is to be filled with semi-fluid plaster of Paris. This is made by mixing powdered plaster of Paris, which has been ])assed through a sieve to remove all lumps that the mould may be perfeetly smooth, with water, till the mixture has aequired the consistence of thick cream or syrup, and is such, that if a spoonful of it is poured on a table or a board, it will set or become solid in a minute or two. With a little practice, the surgeon will acquire a tact by which he will bo able to tell very exactly when he has ^iven the ndxturo the proper consistence. The mixture may be prepared in a largo basin with a beak, from which it can be con- veniently poured. A sufficient quantity of it is nowto be poured on cither side ofihe limb to rise to the level of its greatest transverse dia-