110 FRACTURE. move in bed, which, before the shoulder was fixed, she was unable to do, from the great l)ain it occasioned. Case.—In the year 1829, I was consulted by Mr. Alderman Partridge, of Colchester, respecting a case of this accident, which he described in the following words :—• “ ‘ Mr. P., of Colchester, met with an acci- dent about five months since, by a fall from his chaise. I was requested to meet Dr. Nunn, who had been in attendance for two or three days ; and it then appeared to have been a dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, and I could see no reason to doubt but that Dr. Nunn had reduced it ; but I must confess that the tumefaction and tension were so considerable that it became a difficult mat- ter to decide : however, both from what he himself stated at the time, as well as from Dr. Nunn’s and my own personal observation, I gave it as my opinion that it was reduced, although that shoulder appeared rather lower than the other. This I had observed in other cases, but in this instance it struck me to be rather more than common, and led me to conclude (which I stated at the time) that a considerable portion of the glenoid cavity had been fractured off. I saw him several times afterwards, and although the swelling continued for several weeks, still it became more and more observable that some very serious injury had been done to the glenoid cavity ; and M'hen I saw him at about a month or six weeks from the accident, I could, by placing my hand in the axilla, and pushing at the elbow, bring the head of the humerus up, and rotate it in the glenoid cavity, and still persisted in my former opinion. I was again requested to see him about a week since, when I found the head of the bone resting, where you will, I doubt not, find it; and con- veying to the feel a certain crepitus, which still leads me to suppose that the glenoid cavity has received the injury I have de- scribed, and how far the chances go for any benefit by an effort to rejfface it after such a lapse of time I must leave to you.’ “ The degree of deformity produced by this accident depends upon the extent of lace- ration of a ligament which passes from the under part of the spine of the scapula to the glenoid cavity, and which is not generally described in anatomical books. If this be torn, the glenoid cavity and the head of the os humeri fall deeply into the axilla, but the displacement is much less if this remain whole. "Diagnosis.—The diagnostic marks of this accident are three : firstly, the facility with which the parts arc replaced ; secondly, the immediate fall of the head of the bone into the axilla, when the extension is removed ; and, thirdly, the crepitus which is felt at the (ixtrernity of the coracoid process of the sca- pula, when the arm is rotated. The best method of discovering the cre])itus is, for the surgeon’s hand to be placed over the top ot the shoulder, and the ))oint of the fore-finger to be rested on the coracoid process; the arm being then rotated, the crepitus is directly perceived, because the coracoid process being attached to the glenoid cavity, and bein<>' broken off with it, although itself uninjured, the crepitus is communicated through the medium of that process. _ Case.—A young lady was thrown from a gig, by the fall of the horse, in the Strand, and being carried to her house, a surgeon in the neighbourhood was sent for, who told her the shoulder was dislocated : by extension all the appearances of dislocation were removed, and he bound up the arm. On the following morning he requested me to see the case, as the arm, he said, was again dislocated. On examination 1 found the head of the bone in the axilla, and the shoulder so fallen and flattened as to give to the accident many of the characters of dislocation : however, by elevating the shoulder, and by raising the arm at the elbow, and the head of the bone from the axilla, it was immediately replaced ; but when 1 gave up this support the limb instantly sunk again. I then rotated the elbow, and pressing the coracoid process of the scapula with my fingers, by grasping the top of the shoulder, directly felt a crepitus. Having satisfactorily ascertained the nature of the accident, I placed a thick cushion in the axilla, and drawing the shoulder into its natural position, secured it by the application of a clavicle bandage, and in seven w'eeks the part united without deformity. “ Treatment.—The treatment of this fracture consists in attention to two principles. The first is to carry the head of the os humeri out- wards ; and the second, to raise the glenoid cavity and arm. The former is effected by a thick cushion placed in the axilla, which presses the head of the bone and glenoid cavity outwards, and this may be confined by the clavicle bandage ; and the latter is pro- duced by placing the arm in a short sling, and thus the head of the os humeri being raised supports the glenoid cavity and cervix scapu- lae, and keeps it steadily in its place until union is produced. The time required for recovery from these accidents in the adult is from ten to twelve weeks : in the very young, all the motions of the limb are restored in a shorter period, but it is a long time before the limb recovers its strength.” Mr. Greenwood, surgeon, of Horselydown, informs me, that some j'ears ago an instance of fracture of the neck of the scajiula, in which both himself and Sir A. Cooper were interested, was sujiposcd to have occurred in the case of an old man who survived the injury six or seven years. The original sym- ])tonis were those n hich are still commonly said to characterise the fracture of the neck of the scapula. Sir A. Cooper dissected and removed the jiarts, but botli himself and Mt- Greenwood were fully satisfied, that there was no injury to the scapula, and that the jirinciiial lesion was a fracture, separating a segmen ^ of the head of the humerus, which "US t **