Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Birds. 74 in the free edge of the valvular crescent. The cavity soon after became obliterated, by a complete contraction. A young cock, that had not been fed for thirty hours, was poisoned with prussic acid. It struggled considerablv. After about three minutes, its side was opened. The blood came in jets from the arteries. The right ventricle was very much distended: it was large, and loose, when cut out. On injecting this, the contraction of death proceeded so rapidly, that the ventricle was reduced, at the least, to one- half its original extent; but it was remarkable, that at no period, in no state or degree of fulness, was the valve quite true. The tube of the syringe was as small as a common pin: the muscular substance was growing firm. It was not possible to distend or enlarge the ventricle, on account of the escape of the fluid. A complete contraction quickly ensued. In this state, the more considerable curve which the contracting left ventricle must give to the valvular crescent should operate very favourably in producing a true valve. The action of the valvular crescent is to form a straight line, when iminterrupted. An old fowl was decapitated with a knife, and bled pro- fusely. Its side was almost immediately opened, and the heart found beating freely and steadily; the right side rather full than empty. Being removed, and injected whilst feebly pulsating, the slightest fulness was attended with some reflux; but I am unable to determine if this was, or was not, within the limits of a natural action *. In order not to multiply the detail of experiments, I would here re-apply a former remark—that it will be found impossible to escape the conviction of the existence of a safety-valve function, and of its structural transitions, if the inquirer will but pay attention to similar experiments in two opposite and remote gradations ; as, for instance, in geese and fowls. I cannot, however, forbear to add, that, notwithstanding the precise anatomical adaptation to be found in certain instances—in spite, also, of a true * I have felt the same difficulty with reference to experiments on the living hearts of pigeons.