with Inferences from the Character of Chanyeableness. 13 timially detect tlie action of almost hourly causes alFecting the progress of his patients, alike in chronic or acute cases ? And do they not themselves discover oppression, at a certain time, after particular meals; and after exposure, as in a carriage, in a cold room, or even in bed ? O . , One who has a disease, the nature of which may be mani- fest, or as yet undiscoverable, will present himself; saying, “ I have a cough, or a pain in my side, or a headache, an uneasiness at the stomach, or disordered bowels;—every now and then I am unwell or worse, and in bad spirits;—my looks and flesh are imperceptibly declining. I have been ailing a good wliile. I am told there is nothing serious in my sym- ptoms ; and I often feel so well, as to be convinced of this; and then, as soon, I am ill again. I am very careful, but I think I am growing weaker.” The proper reply is:—“ I think you are not careful enough. Perhaps you are not temperate in all things; or very likely you take cold unawares.” Change of air is recommended in such a case;—from the daily exposure of a stage-coach, the Exchange, the counting-house, or loitering, inactive (in body), in the cold damp corners of business; from bad hours, habits, and excitement, to simpler pursuits elsewhere;—and country air has all the merit of the cure, when the sole ad- vantage may be, that daily relapse has been prevented (the recurrent cause obviated), and nature has done the rest. I have to remark, that I have passed over a variety of anomalous affections, which essentially belong, in nature and treatment, to the preceding catalogue; though I cannot but regard the extension of these views as of much importance. A natural disposition to recovery is a valuable part of dia- gnosis in any case, if it only tends to the watchful removal of disturbing causes; but its most universal aj)plication should 'fall in with the addition of remedies to our plan, when to the abstraction of all disturbance we endeavour to excite the tardy functions, moderate the active, and support the natural tendency to an equiponderance of the whole. With respect also to diagnosis, variability is still further an available character; for its presence or absenee will