4 Mr. Kiny on Disorders which are Variable, secondary laws, I anticipate increasing evidence of the just- ness of the whole; although I am very sensible that more able and devoted minds may readily surpass these too feeble and cursory expositions. A very little attention will suffice to discover, that there is a considerable number of affections in which Variability is a marked character;—and these, as a class, appear to me to deserve especial attention in a practical point of view. Many variable diseases are called chronic, but without sufficient grounds: and since many variable diseases are acute, and many chronic diseases may not be variable, I shall not anticipate any material objection to the simple term of distinction which I have adopted, without much regard for authority. The term scarcely seems to need a definition. Almost all tliat is vexatious to the practitioner, in disease not neces- sarily fatal, points to its meaning. Sometimes better, and then worse;—now even quite well, but relapsing to-morrow ; —restored more or less gradually—relapsing more or less sud- denly ;—such is variable disease : and when all its forms are considered, with some reference to causes, and the remedial indications which the knowlege of them demands, I trust the propriety, and indeed necessity, of discriminating the whole series will be evident. Those who have attended to the many seemingly slowly progressive forms of strumous disease, whether in the eye, the knee, the chest, or elsewhere, will, I think, be ready to admit the one defined idea of variable disease; which, how- ever, a few remarks may serve to strengthen and enlarge. The expression “ chronic disease" appears too general, and indeed indefinite, in the common acceptation. Perhaps it is already declining in use; and I think it is certain, that most diseases which have been called chronic, consist of more or less acute relapses, with pretty gradual periods of recovery; which, however, are not always or necessarily tardy:—for this, observe the progress of all the different protracted catarrhs. I venture to digress with a few further remarks on the term chronic disease; which, while it seems indispensable, rccjuires strict limitation, if it is to be safely employed; and.