134 FRACTURE. Fig. 53. Fig. 325. Fracture of the neck of the femur ivilh liga- mentoxis union. a. Head of the. femur. h. Trochanters. c. Thickened capsule (f the joint. d. Line of compact ligamentous matter, uniting the head and body of the femur. e. Cancellated cavity of the shaft. A female, cet. 66, fell on the ground. The limb was found shortened two inches and a half, and everted. She died at the end of the fifth month from the time of the ac.cident. The capside teas found thickened; the round ligament wasted to a few shreds, and de- tached from the femur; the neck of the bone had disappeared. The interspace of the fragment was very slicjld superiorly. This case is most probvddy one of fracture near the tro- chanters, since the most natural circumstances apjwar to be absorption, in consequence of the nutrition being ad off. The round ligament often wastes or disap- pears in sueh cases ,* and the head remains to fill the cavity, tmause it is rendered mechanically incapidde (so io'speak) of collapsing in consequence ^ its situa- tion in the midst of unyieldina walls I he case is related by Mr. Howship, in the Med.-Chir. Jrans- actions (vol. xix. case 8). The drawing is in my p0SHCi(si07l. round ligament, and little or no reunion, or even repair, were j)retty generally remarkable —Fig. 325, however, represents one ot the above. Mr. H. takes no notice of any osseous reparation in his eases. Fig. 309 may again deceive the observer. The upper synovial cavity is ])robably an ad- ventitious biirsa against the trochanter ; and even the new synovial cell in the neck ot I lie femur may be whol- ly a gradual forma- tion. The ligament between the two cavities seems only a vestige of origi- nal capsule, or pe- riosteum. There are un- questionable cases of old fracture of' the cervix femoris- without any union,, in every museum.. Sir A. Cooper early recorded upwards • of forty, and, doubt- ■ less, saw' many more subsequently; they might probably be ■ reckoned by hun-- dreds ; while the supposed cases of bony, or even liga- mentous reunion are scarcely to be counted by tens, and those in vari- ous degrees doubt- • ful. We should de-- mand of those w’ho are most confident about the latter, to show' the early and partial stages of this union ; but even these are wanting; because, it is alleged, they are so slowly produced. Mr. Mayo gives tw'o cases, exemplitying the appearances usually found on dissection ; and observes, “ there are features m them which make it sufficiently clear, that the ab- sence of bony union does not result irom imperfect nutrition, or inadequate supply ot blood to the separated portion b” Mr. Mayo “ believes the process ot ossifi- cation to be extremely slow. Such instances occur in those only w'ho are not greatly a - vanced in life at the time of the ffiacture, and in whom, through the care with which the. joint is kciit at rest, direct union by soft sub- stances takes place between the separated portions. Nothing, in truth, is then vvante ^ for the restoration of the part but time. How long will it not be before all these happy' concomitants are met with ? F ic injury is rare before advanced life; the care to keep the joint at rest is rarely availing; and the soft union which precedes ossification tor a >e«gth of time, is at least but little known. Docs not ligamentous union preclude the ^ssihc. None of the preparations examined by Mi. Crosse, in the museunis of Fans, seem to have afibrded him one satisfactory instance of bony union occurring after fracture ot the neck ol^ the femur within the capsule. i I 0\itlinc8 of ITumtin Pathology.