( ) DESCRIPTION OF PLATE III. Fig. I. represents the Interior of the Right Ventricle in the Turkey’s Heart. A is the convex solid wall. B is a pretty massive yielding wall. D is the filtachment (analogous to a column') of distention. D 1. is the crescent of distention, very limited in substance and extent, and sup. posed to correspond to the anterior curtain of distention in the Mammali^ D 2. is the valvular crescent, a powerful muscle, and well applied to the solid wall: it seems to represent the right curtain of distention of a true tricuspid valve. F is the rudiment of a moderator band. This is nearly the lowest degree of a safety-valve; if indeed distention can at all effect the displacement necessary to regurgitation. Fig. 2. is taken from .a Preparation of the Heart of the Stanley Crane.—The whole of the right side was gently inflated; the part was then put into alco- hol ; and subsequently laid open, by removing great part of the yielding wall. The interior of the right ventricle is the only essential part to be noticed. It presents aji anterior view of the valvular apparatus. The outline of the prepara- tion does not betray any excessive distention, although the drawing gives some- thing of this appearance; and the extreme thinness of the yielding wall is here even less marked than in the original. The crescent of distention is seen crossing the upper part of the ventricle, from the solid to the yielding wall. The valvular crescent is seen below, and posterior to it; and the two crescents are seen to unite at their external insertion (to the left), between which point and the solid wall is the widened aperture of reflux into the auricle. The flatness of the solid wall is here partially represented. Some judgment may be formed of the comparative size and thickness of the two ventricles,. The left was not subjected to any artiflcial distention. A section of its wall is shewn at (I). Admitting this to be an accurate portrait of the parts in their most complete distention, we have still an increase of development beyond what is seen in earlier stages. This is the fullest that I have found in the Grallai. The analogy between these parts and those of the simple tricuspid is sufiiciently apparent. C is the situation for o. fixed curtain (supposed). Fig. 3, and 4, are magnified Views of Preparations from Birds, shewing the Inte- rior of the Right Ventricle, as in the last.—In both of these, we have the thin yielding loall without, and the flattened and almost concave solid wall within ; the crescent of distention, thin and membranous, and placed superiorly; and the vaU vular crescent, limited, but muscular, and situated inferiorly. These two are attached, by their united anterior horns, to the yielding walL Fig. 3. is from the Black Diver; and remarkable, on account of the yielding wall being actually not thicker than paper. This bird has, probably, considering its class, a high degree of safety-valve; yet the breadth of its attachment of distention is far less than that of some others of its order. Fig. 4. is from the Pigeon, which offers a concave solid wall, a crescent of disten- tion, of small extent; but the attachment between the crescents and yielding wall is rather wide. These preparations, but especially the last, were distended, and indurated in spirits of wine ; and, from their small size and the delicacy of their structures, they have, no doubt, been much disturbed by the process: the differences, however, which they present, in comparison with each other and with the specimens above, are still, to a certain extent, real and remarkable. The Diagrams 1 and 2 are merely intended to explain two different degrees of a safety-valve arrangement—the elongation of the crescent of distention (D 1); and the separation of the valvular crescent (D 2) from the solid wall (A), by the carrying out of the yielding wall (B). Thus we might form the plan of as many different degrees of the refluent function as the class Aves will admit. , , • The convexity of the solid wall (A) is evidently subject to a gradual diminution, as is shewn by the dotted lines. It was difficult in this plan to shew the attachment of distention (D), varying in length and breadth, and still more in complexity.