Mr. King on the Safety-f alve in Birds. .65 have next to inquire, what proofs may be produced of an actual refluent action. These are very similar to those which relate to the mammalia. It must also be a deside- ratum, to determine those degrees of this function which belong to each particular genus or individual of the class. The anatomical history of a few particular species will serve amply to establish a series of structural gradations; but with resources of the utmost extent, a long period would be required to settle the scale of this function in its full extent ; and the task would be the more difficult, on account of a certain complexity which is discoverable in tracing it, or the structures on which it depends. I have imagined, that, in the genera of one order of birds, the safety-valve is pro- duced in widely different proportions, as in the Palmipedes, and again in others also; so that the limits of one series on the scale may surpass those of the adjoming ones, in either direction. The preparations which I have collected will satisfactorily prove thus much, and probably more; but though very numerous, they are quite inadequate for the purpose of determining the distinct and successive gradations. In the black diver, I have found all the essential parts of a safety-valve, in their complete development; the thin and extensive yielding wall; the long membranous cres- cent of distention; the angle of the two crescents almost acute; a tolerably solid wall; and the attachment of distention rather long, narrow, and inclining towards the middle of the yielding wall*. Now, tlu-oughout the order Palmipedes there is an evident wlfcrposseslT " 1 crocodile, va ve of 2 , ^ conclude, that the peculia.- lated l7 “edification of a true tricispid - may be calcu. precise valvular ^ quantity of fluid being small, a more less sensihlo ' 1 r is lequired, together with a more limited, but not less sensible or delicate safety-valve. remarkable ^*°^****^* venous reservoirs, which are scarcely less 22 a2 ' r ef mesentery are very at the hnl I>^«-^cnt instance, one jugular vein is as large 2e m clastic and vei ‘Ke pulmonary artery is also notable.