53 Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Mammalia. tricuspid valve, formerly spoken of as fixed, is becoming liable to the effects of distention; for its muscular columns, now increased in extent and power, cease to be attached, near the base of the heart, into the solid wall, and are continued, beyond the division of the ventricles, into the apex; that is, into the thin, separated, and more yielding part of the ventricular paries. These may be called acces- sory columns of distention, both from their muscularity and connection. The seal affords only the early traces of this conformation ; but in the porpoise the gradation is conside- rably advanced: so that whatever value may be allowed for the terms here employed, or for the explanations adduced, such is indisputably the progressive development of the anatomical character of these parts, throughout the class Mammalia. I have had no opportunity of examining more divided hearts than that of the porpoise; but I cannot doubt that their structure follows the plan here indicated by the train of analogies. (See Diagr. 7. PI. 2. and the description.) Tlie experimental test on which I desire to repose the whole truth of these opinions is, the comparison, by in- jection, of the right valves in animals of different grades; as, the dog and sheep, before the pulsations have ceased. The great and manifest imperfection of the sheep’s valve, which will every now and then be found, must be convincing. Having concluded that the reflux function is greatest in the last, or fourth series of animals, it may justly be ex- pected that the experimental proofs shall here be the more satisfactory*. And here, also, we shall find the most marked appearances in the general animal frame, which serve to corroborate the view of temporary venous delay and accu- mulation ; as might indeed be anticipated from casual traces displayed in animals included in the earlier series, as well as * During the autumn of 1835, on producing a series of these preparations, both human and comparative, before M. H.Cloquet, illustrating the view of a reflux action under distention, I had the gratification of gaining a very satis- factory assent to these opinions from that distinguished anatomist. In order to carry conviction, it seemed enough to set together the three facts, that the valve is naturally imperfect or feeble, that the ventricle is liable to dis- tention, and that the valve of distention is manifestly dependent on the situation of the outer wall.