127 FRACTURE. a footboard with a hole in its centre, through whicli to draw the hand that makes extension on the lower extremity of the limb : the ob- ject of this hole is to form a pulley, so that the band may operate in a perpendicular di- rection, before it is turned and secured to the lower end of the outer splint; the extension shonld be equally made from each side of the limb, and the hand applied as for the reduc- tion of dislocations ; it may be made of a jiiece of calico, several times doubled, and forming a hand about an inch and a half wide ; it must he sufficiently long and smooth to lie flatly. A piece of leather is placed between the hand and the skin, further to prevent any injury from the pressure. We have seen, that in fractures of the femur, just below the trochanters, the upper fragment is drawn forward by the psoas and iliacus muscles : now this projection, which is urged as an objection against the treatment by the straight posture, is said to have gra- dually subsided in a case related by Dr. Hous- ton, and treated by him. The projection was remarkable during the first days after tlic ac- cident, but subsided with gentle pressure on the fore part of the thigh, and the fracture finally assumed a perfect coaptation. In the resent state of our experience, however, this appy event is not to be generally anticipated ; and cases will be met with, in w'hich the up- per fragment is so short and so directly thrust forwards, that its point alone can be pressed on. Dupuj'tren’s * method of flexing the leg, in cases of fracture of the upper part of the femur, was very simple. A sufficient number of pillows adjusted beneath the leg, and a broad bandage to secure the foot to the bed, comprised the whole apparatus. Sir A. Cooper employed a similar plan for instances of fracture within the cotyloid capsule. The double inclined plane, of which very numerous modifications are to be met with among its advocates, may be I’egarded, I think, on the whole, as the favourite apparatus with British surgeons. The following has had too many concerned in its construction for us to be able to ascribe it to a single inventor. Fig. SO. Fig. 322 represents a douhle in- clined plane, which is chiefly em- ployed for fractures affecting the inferior half of the thigh. A thigh piece, a, the lower end of v’hich is capaltle of graduated elongation, is united hy means of a hinge (regidated by a mate and female screw, e,j to a leg- piece, 1; and a foot-piece with a shoe and straps is attached by an iron pin, and capable of beim/ afipled for a longer or shorter limb. Fig. 51. Fig. .323 may e.rpkiin a common method of arranging the under part of the preceding figure. The thigh-piece, g, has a rack, f ( in lieu of a male ami female screw,) irith a steel-bar reaching to the middle of Ihe leg-piece, and a sems of buttons along the middle of the thigh-piece by which the Jlemon at the knee, is regulated. At the upper end of the thighs piece, h, is a sliding metal plate, vnlh rounded ami ciierlcd edges, and twt> screws sliding in grooves or fissures, i, by which the lemith of the, tliigfi-splint may be suited to ddfl'erent limits as occasions rei/uire. tdluds, I I, are. distri- buted about the leg and Ihiijh- pieces, and serve 'to mdke 'the s'raps or tia.mlage more secure. A pelvis-strap, A Jig., single or double. Is retpdred to jlv the, splint to the, tmdy and short thigh-splints to produce comjircs- si/m bifore and laterally. A more simple form of the double inclined plane than is generally usml, is preferred by some surgeons The patient lies upon bis Mck, with the limb supported in a flexed po- sition, by a frame, which consists of two boards, ten or eleven inches wide, the one supporting the thigh, from the ischium to the ham, and the other reaching from the ham to the heel; and the two are united at an angle under the knee-joint: two inclined planes are thus formed, and the whole is based upon a long horizontal board that rests upon the bed. Over these sloping surfaces, to which cushions arc adajited, the limb is to be placed. An outer and an inner splint arc to be applied along the thigh, after the displace- ment has been reduced; and the edges of the inclined planes, along which holes have been previously prepared, arc then furnished with pegs that inclose the whole. Without a foot- board and roller, however, the leg and foot cannot be sufficiently fixed ; and then this appa- ratus is less comiiletc than the oblique planes of Arncsbury and MHidyrc, which admit of being inclined to any angle. A pelvis and thigh straps add much to their efficiency, and In fractures near the trochanters, deformity must almost necessarily ensue, if something equiva- lent to the pelvis strap be not cmjiloyed. The double inclined plane, as usually con- ' As a siirgiral writer, not only on frarturos Imt on nil i.nietind snbjeets, |)erhii|.s it is not easy to' find a nnmoot mmlern days to set before that ofTtuonv- trrii, * ^