48 FRACTURE. of the limb. When the apparatus is quite dry, the patient may, with perfect safety, move the leg about in the bed. He may even, after the third or fourth day, quit his bed and move about on crutches, with the injured leg sup- ported, and the foot raised from the ground, by means of a long and broad band, secured at the instep by a figure-of-eight turn of the middle of the bandage round the foot and ankle, and brought up, one end on each side of the neck, to be tied behind it. It is ob- vious that there are many cases, where con- finement to bed for five weeks or two months would be seriously detrimental to the general health, or might cause sloughing of the parts pressed between the bed and the bony pro- minence on which the w'eight of the patient’s body principally bears, in which it is hardly possible to prize the advantages of this method too highly. In such cases, treated according to the ordinary method, the patient will soon lose his appetite, flesh, and strength, his diges- tion and all the other functions will be im- paired, and consequently the process of repair of the fracture will be languidly carried on ; whereas, by adopting M. Seutin’s method, most or all of these evils may be avoided, as well as the risk of sloughing and its attendant mischiefs. In many fractures too, occurring in persons, who, from age, or any other cause, are unmanageable, M. Seutin’s method is pos- sessed of unquestionable and great advantages. In cases adapted to it, occurring in young chil- dren, idiots, or lunatics, we can, by the use of it, render it almost impossible for the patient seriously to injure himself; and often, in cases of patients w’hose occupations are sedentary, it is consistent with their continuing to be em- ployed about their ordinary avocations, a cir- cumstance which will frequently contribute much to the speedier consolidation of the fracture, by its happy effects on the health and spirits of the patient. The advocates of this system of treatment, on the continent, practise it in almost all frac- tures of the clavicle, and of the bones of the arm, fore-arm, thigh, and leg, applying the bandage immediately on the occurrence of the acci- dent, or at least as soon as the case comes un- der the care of the surgeon. When the frac- ture is simple, the manner of proceeding is similar to that of w'hich the details have been given above. When the fracture is accom- panied with a moderate degree of tumefac- tion, still the bandage is to be applied in the same manner ; but if, at the end of five or six days, the surgeon perceive that by the re- moval of the swelling, the bandage no longer forms a closely fitting mould, the apparatus is to be removed, and again applied in the same manner as at first. There is no diffi- culty in removing the bandage. Often, it admits of being unrolled readily without any precautions being taken to facilitate its remo- val. If any difficulty is experienced it cun at once be got rid of by moistening the bandage, when it may be taken off almost as easily as a common roller. Lastly, in cases attended with very great tumefaction and inflammation, the fracture is, in the first instance, to be put up in the ordinary manner, with splints, sin- gle-headed roller, or Scultetus’s bandage, and compresses wet with simple water, campho- rated spirit, or some other evaporating lotion, during the first week or ten days. When the tumefaction has subsided, the starched ban- dage is to be applied as in the former cases. At the end of an able exposition of the ad- vantages of M. Seutin’s method, M. Velpeau draws the following conclusions—1. That the best treatment of fractures, in general, is that by permanent compression :—2, that the best solidifiable material hitherto known, and used for that purpose, is starch, boiled, and of the consistence of a thick pap :—3, that with this compression w'e may dispense with the em- ployment of cushions and splints :—4, that some pieces of pasteboard and a long single- headed roller suffice to form the whole appa- ratus :—5, that this apparatus, on account of its lightness, hardly impedes the movements of the limb :—6, that, in fractures of the leg, this mode of treatment offers immense advantages :—7, that wdth this apparatus the patient may freely change his position in bed, rise, sit, walk about, and take some exercise, at any time after the fifth day :— 8, that in fractures of both bones of the leg, the patient must not be permitted to walk without crutches, or to place the foot of the broken limb on the ground, before the fortieth or the forty-fifth day ;—9, that in cases, of fracture of the tibia or fibula alone, the crutches are no longer indispensable after the twentieth or twenty-fifth day :—10, that in fractures complicated with wound, the patient may be allowed to move the limb about in bed, but not to take exercise in the erect posture : —11, that in cases in which the tumefaction is extreme, it is proper to employ temporary com])ression during a week, before having re- course to the permanent compression by the starched bandage:—12, that this method of treatment is, at once, more simple, more easy to put in practice, more certain, less expensive for the poor, more agreeable for patients of all kinds, and for the surgeon, than any of the other methods which have met with general approval up to the present day. It may be gathered from what I have al- ready said respecting M. Seutin’s method, that I am far from agreeing in the strong com- mendation given to it as a system ot treat- ment generally applicable ; and in this o])inion, I believe, the great majority of British sur- geons, who have practised or seen much of it, entirely concur. Dr. Markham, in his Remarks on the Surgical Practice of Paris, gives the following tioads of a case ot frai.- ture of the upper part of the tibia, treated by M. Blandin with the starched bandage. “ This accident happened to a mason, a man about forty-five years of age, and was caused by the direct impulse of an immense block ot stone falling on his leg. The fracture was of course compound, and situated just above the ,