7 Mr. T. JVilkinson King on the Stomach. to me. The oesophagus was dissolved; and “ the bi’ead and cheese,” he said, “was found extravasated in the chest.” But I have at least said enough of these changes, for my pre- sent purpose: yet I may add, that the records, specimens, and drawings in the Museum contain numerous additional O and curious illustrations of the statements in the present Paper. My object is, next, to shew that the left half of the stomach is the only part concerned in the production of the digesting fluid: and that the attempt is necessary, appears from the observation, that the most considerable opinions of physiolo- gists which I have found on the subject are directly opposed to this view. One author writes as follows:— “ Of the nature of the peculiar agency by which the com- bination of elementary substances with water, and consequently their solution, is eftected, we cannot be said to possess much certain knowledge. The combination appears to be chiefly owing to the agency of a fluid secreted by the stomach, the glands for the formation of which are most numerous about the pyloric orifice." * Professor Todd t, of King’s College, seems distinctly opposed to the opinion, “ that the cardiac and pyloric portions of the stomach perform separate and distinct officesbut his obser- vation is directed against Sir E. Home’s peculiar opinions. I do not, however, infer that all observers, and especially that all pathologists, are of one opinion on the subject in question. Dr. Carswell has the merit of having made the most exten- sive exposition of the common actions of the gastric-juice, four- teen or fifteen years after Dr. Philip. Dr. Carswell’s sum- mary is as follows!:— conceive the oesophagus to have been so torn asunder; and the death I su- spect to have arisen from a not very uncommon cause, namely, extravasation into the peritoneum by perforation of the duodenum, or the like.—See Mr. Mayo’s “ Outlines of Human Pathology,” p. 281. Prout on the Nature and Treatment of Stomach and Urinary Diseases, 1840. p.22. f See the Gulstonian Lecture, in the Medical Gazette, Nov. 1839. p. 207. + Edinburgh Medical and Surgical .Journal, 1830.