24 FRACTURE. fracture runs through a surface which is coated with cartilage, and therefore devoid of true periosteum. We may well admit that the experiments, and observations, which have been adduced to illustrate the subject of callus, are extensive and satisfactory ; but we shall find that there are still important details concerning the repair of open fractures and others, which when compared with those introduced into the previous pages, may serve both to esta- blish and to extend the opinions which are generally esteemed the best. The first enquiry should perhaps be, to determine the conditions of the periosteum after fracture ; but of these I must speak more at length hereafter. One or two re- marks, however, require to be advanced in immediate connexion with my present object. In the first place, it must be apparent that the more the periosteum is separated from the bone by violence or inflammation, the more the broken extremities are deprived of blood- vessels, and become liable to necrosis, or, at least, to the tardiest process of repair. Secondly, it is not much to assume, that the inflammation of periosteum is understood to be attended with tumefaction of the mem- brane, and that this applies to all the soft parts immediately surrounding a fracture. We see then how position, motion or rest, and constitution, as well as the kind and degree of the original injury, must combine to regulate the degree of surrounding tume- faction—to moderate or augment it, provided inflammation be not wholly deficient, or ac- tually excited to disorganization. This re- flexion is of great importance with refer- ence to the observations made on the broken bones of animals. One who has watched a rabbit with a broken leg, and seen the invo- luntary start of the limb, occurring every few minutes, perhaps for many days, must know very well that the local deposits of inflammation cannot fail to be thus increased out of all proportion. The following example may serve to prove this fact:—A large bull- dog in a fight, had the fore-arrn nearly bitten through, and the bones only grazed. He continued to lie, every now and then jerk- ing the paw, though the part M'as little swollen, for eight days, after which he was destroyed as a healthy animal, for the pur- pose of injecting some of his viscera. The injured arm was also injected with coloured size. The internal mischief seemed pro- ])ortionate to what I have described. There was no appearance of a disorganizing pro- cess ; a scale of bone had been chipped off, the wounded periosteum w'as red, tumid, and spongy ; and the bones were, in great part, covered by an additional layer of new bone, with thick and soft periosteum upon it.^ This may also stand for a broad illustration of what, in my view, is most necessary to every reunion—plenty of ossification, and l)ut little soft callus, excepting the active periosteum. With regard to the effused blood in the great cell of a fracture, nothing is more cer- tain than that it gradually disappears ; grows brown and pale, and wastes away (if not dis- charged externally) as simple extravasation from a bruise. The idea of the organization of a clot is as devoid of proof in fracture, as in simple ecchymosis ; and I am unwilling to admit the opinion that any visible mass can be first formed, and then for the first time receive vessels. Next, there is sufficient evidence that sup- puration about the fracture does not of neces- sity materially interrupt the consolidation ; so that the effusions of blood and of simple in- flammatory deposits about the fracture are not essentials of the repair,—and we know that every surgeon regards excessive extravasa- tion, or effusion, as an impediment. After a fracture, it is naturally to be ex- pected that the periosteum should be variously confounded with other lacerated tissues in the progress of inflammation. It is still more likely, after the stage of tumefaction, when all the swollen tissues become more solid, and contract (as in every part they must, as a necessary consequence of the subsidence of their former condition), that it will be very difficult to distinguish true periosteum : al- though it will hourly become more evident, that, of the whole contracting mass which assists to bind up the fractured parts, the inner vascular surface has the most to do with the deposition of bone. The minuter changes which the periosteum undergoes after material lesion, need not now be referred to. It is sufficient to observe that injury induces some inflammation, which may terminate in resolution, in the effusions of different fluids between it and the bone, or— what most commonly, and indeed almost con- stantly happens—within four or jive days, it be- comes the means of depositing new bone upon the old. Hence we have bony nodes, and venereal exostoses. This is roughly illustrated by simple exostosis ; when, perhaps in conse- quence of a blow, a cartilaginous spot forms between the periosteum and the bone,—or rather, as I think, in the periosteum,—and then point by point, bone upon bone, ossifi- cation advances beneath the cartilage ; fresh cartilage is superposed, and a tumour is deve- loped. The case is not very different, though often much more complicated, in cancerous exostosis. Supposing a fungoid tubercle to be forming beneath the periosteum, this mem- brane inflames, because of the j)ressure ; so that all around a ridge of bone is deposited, while perhaps the |)ressure of the tubercle causes absorption of the bone immediately beneath it. In this manner, many cups may be formed, single or confluent,small orlarge, regular or ir- regular ; and it is very evident that the forma- tion in this way of broad plates, and septa, and cells about the bases of similar tumours, is one part of the process of many fungous exostoses. Some bones, affected wilii a similar disease, have a beautiful appearance after maceration.