Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function 26 narrow thready jet. After this, proceeding to the injection of the pulmonary artery in the same manner, and slowly filling the right ventricle, it was quite impossible to produce a similar effect. No position in or out of water, no degree of gentleness or force, no state in anywise natural to the organ that I was able to induce, would prevent a conside- rable ribband-like stream of regurgitation between the ill- apposed edges of the valve. Independent of earlier and less careful attempts, I per- formed the same experiment, with various modifications, upon at least ten or eleven different adult hearts, and all of them seemingly healthy. The result invariably tended to the one uniform conclusion. I shall, however, before advancing, advert to several cir- cumstances of deviation, that occurred in the different repe- titions of this first experiment. The bicuspid valve has occasionally been somewhat less perfect than is described above. In some of the hearts ex- perimented on, it has allowed one fine jet of regurgitation, or even two—in consequence, as it might seem, of some original imperfection; since it resulted alike from a slight and a considerable distending force: and I have seen the same result in other experiments, performed upon valves that were evidently unsound ; as, for example, opaque, thickened, and uneven. The same effect, also, has been produced, when the left ventricle was moderately distended, by pressing on its surface, in such a manner, and at such a point, as to relax some of the tendinous cords. To render the experiment on the mitral valve most strik- ingly characteristic, the coronary arteries should be secured with ligatures, and a stop-cock employed. With these pre- cautions, the auricle being laid freely open, the ventricle may be distended, until it becomes quite full and hard, and the tumid auricular surface of the valve resists considerable pressure of the fingers. After closing the communication at the aorta, tliis turgid fulness of the ventricle will persist, for a long time. Whilst examining,the right side of the heart in the pre- ceding experiments, the only possible means of obtaining a nice though weak adjustment of the tricuspid curtains was,