FRACTURE. 78 scarcely begun to be formed ; at the termina- tion of the second, union was very weak, and it did not become perfectly solid till after the expiration of four months. In animals, such as guinea-pigs, rabbits, &c. Brodie has found by experiment, that the reparative process in a fracture of the thigh-bone is delayed in its commencement for a week or a fortnight, by placing a ligature on the femoral artery, but at the end of that time union goes on as though no such operation had been done. (Lancet, i. p. 381, 1840-1.) “ Advanced age is placed among the causes which always retard the consolidation of frac- tured bones, though the reading of observa- tions reported, and dailj" experience, does not confirm it. In some cases of this kind, I have seen the callus deposited and firm union occur remarkably soon. In 1838, two in- stances in which this took place were treated by me at the Pennsylvania Hospital. In one of them, occurring in a man aged ninety, the humerus was fractured near its middle, and under the usual treatment, firm union took place at the end of six weeks. In the other, a decrepid female, aged eighty, who died from exhaustion eighty-four days after frac- tures of the middle of the femur and the ilium, the mass of matter thrown out around the fractured portions was truly astonishing. An instance is mentioned by Professor Hor- ner (Treatise on Anatomy, i. p. 27), in which a simple fracture of the os humeri occurring in a female, aged ninety, was firmly united at the end of five weeks. Adverting to the sup- posed influence of old age in causing imper- fection or failure of bony union. Dr. Wright thus gives his experience. ‘ I have been frequently struck with the resources of the system in old age, as displayed in the prompt and perfect repair of injuries both of the soft and solid parts of the body. In the closing of wounds, the filling up and healing of exten- sive ulcers, and the firm reunion of fractures, it has occurred to me to observe all those processes accomplished with a facility and completeness scarcely exceeded at any age, in some instances where the subjects of such accidents had passed the eightieth year of life.’ (American Journ. of Med. Sci. iv. p. 273.) Bonn (Descript. Thesauri Ossium Morb. p. 59-61, 1783), quoted from Berard’s thesis, p. 7. however, has furnished two obser- vations, where advanced age appeared to be the only circumstance which retarded the formation of callus. Some idea of the influ- ence of age in the production of false joint, may be derived from an analysis of 112 cases extracted from our table, in which the age is noted. Of the age of 2 and under there were 14 Between the ages of 20 and 30 there were 53 Between the ages of 30 and 40 . . 21 Above the age of 40 . . • • ‘^4 112” Of the last named twenty-four only six w'ere above fifty-five ; namely, two were sixty years of age ; one sixty-one, one sixty-five, and tw'o seventy-four. Thus there are no grounds for suj>posing that advanced life im- pedes reunion of bones in the slightest degree. “ According to Larrey, (Memoirs of Mili- tary Surgery, trans. by Hall, i. p. 301.) even the season and atmospheric temperature may exert some influence upon the consolidation of fractured bones ; he relates that the gun- shot wounds of the superior extremities com-- plicated with fracture, especially those of the humerus, received by the French soldiers in Syria, although dressed according to art, were almost all followed by accidental articulations, which he attributes to the following causes. “ 1st. To the continual motion to which the wounded were exposed after their departure from Syria, until their arrival in Egypt, and; their being obliged to travel mounted, or on foot. “ 2nd. To the bad quality of their food, and; to the brackish water that they' were forced. to drink on this tedious journey. “ 3rd. To the state of the atmosphere in Syria, that is almost deprived of vital air, and; loaded with pernicious vapours arising from the numerous marshes near which they re- mained a long time.” “ The local causes which may hinder the. consolidation of fractured bones are various. “ 1st. Frequent motion of the part. This> may be owing either to indocility and per-- verseness on the part of the patient, to removing patients from place to place after: these accidents, or to a want of apparatus- wherein to confine the fractured limb. Too much motion from injudicious management of ' the fracture by frequent dressing, or the lay- ing aside of splints, and the use of the limb at too early a period after the accident, may' also give rise to it. Frequent motion of a fractured limb is the only cause of want of union mentioned by Cclsus. Mr. Amesbury- (Loc. citat. p. 197) considers want of rest to be more frequently' the occasion of deficient union than any other, and considers it tO‘ have been the primary cause in almost all the- cases which he had examined. The opinion that want of union is to be attributed most generally to some defect in our treatment, is- held by Dr. J. R. Barton (Medical Re- corder, ix. p. 276, 1826), Liston (Lancet, ii. 168, 1835-6), Key (Lond. Med. Gaz. iv. p. 262, 1829), Macfarlane (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. xlvii. 1837), and most other surgeons who have of late written upon the subject. Out of forty-four cases extracted from tho table appended to this paper, in which the occurrence of pseudarthrosis 1)!^ boon set down by the authors to some parti- cular cause, twenty'-two may', I think, from what is stated, be fairly attributed to motion in the fracture caused by neglect, or entire want of treatment. The information on this point, however, derived from the table, can- not be entirely depended upon, little or no