2 Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the stomach itself are as often discoverable as not; and they are so peculiar, that it is a matter of surprise that they are not more generally appreciated: and it is to be regretted, that the inferences afforded by these effects have not had much more influence in limiting and directing the objects of experi- mentalists on the subject of digestion. When, for instance, the coats of the stomach have been perforated, and the surface of the spleen has become similarly dissolved or the diaphragm perforated, is it not evident that the agencies of the par vagum and of peristaltic motion are altogether inadmissible, as essen- tials to the solvent action ? The fulness of explanation which has already been devoted to the more common facts of gastric solution will sufiiciently excuse my confining these observations chiefly to what I deem most novel or least established. It is a very common circumstance for the epidermis of the oesophagus to be softened into pulp, or removed as by solution, or separated in particles of various sizes. All gradations of these changes are to be met with throughout the length of the passage, hut most often and marked in its inferior half. I have had no hesitation in ascribing these appearances to the agency of the gastric juice which may have been regurgi- tated about the period of the cessation of life, as other mat- ters occasionally are; for instance, half-digested fragments of food, or even bilious fluid, with which the lining of the oesophagus is sometimes deeply dyed. Perhaps the most conclusive mark of digestion, in the part itself, is seen when longitudinal stripes of the epidermis only are left adherent, and these in the interstices of folds which may readily be imagined to have protected them from the access of the solvent. The like conclusion may be drawn from small, isolated spots of the cuticle, if we suppose them to have been especially pro- tected by mucus from a crypt occupying their centres. It is unquestionable, that these changes go along with softening of the stomach : and M. Louis has described most of them in connection with the ramollissement of which he so fully treats, even to the symptoms, prognosis, and cure. Sometimes, when the oesophagus is much affected, the sto- mach is less so, and vice versd. The reason of this is, that