14 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function Accumulation in Dying.—Having been for many years in the eonstant, almost daily practice of examining the dead, I have been led to observe, that a very great number of deaths from disease are attended with some degree of unna- tural fulness of the right side of the heart, whilst the left side is commonly found empty. Suddenly-fatal diseases, charac- terized by great depletion, may terminate with partial emptiness, and contraction even, of the right side of the heart; though never perhaps complete. The left side is continually found, in death, to contain only a few drachms of blood, with the exception of those cases involving derange- ments of the part itself. I feel also confident in declaring, that in the sudden death of the generally healthy frame the blood is expelled from the left cavities, but commonly fills the right even in cases of haemorrhages*. In the last, however, the strength of the right ventricle seems sometimes to resist the diminished tendency to distention, and it becomes firmly contracted. In many cases of death from disease, the distention of the right ventricle is found to be most excessive ; and this con- gestion is most frequently seen, when it would be impos- sible to impute any part of the effect to the influence of pulmonary resilience'^, or any mode of atmospheric agency. The little power of forming a vacuum within the chest, which might belong to the healthy lung, is evidently over- whelmed by many common diseases; which are, indeed, frequently the cause of congestion in the right ventricle, to the highest degree: as when the lungs remain distended to the utmost from bronchial obstruction and emphysema, or from the effusions of inflammation, or from turgescence and extravasations of blood; as when, also, the lungs are obstructed by different pleural effusions, or any morbid diminution of the thoracic cavity. * I have seen the same distention in animals dying from haemorrhage, or with much loss of blood. This resilience no doubt plays a certain part naturally; and the move- ments of inspiration, in conjunction with the force of gravitation, and the action of the venous valves, may bo very important to the free circulation of the head.