in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart 23 SECT. 6.—THE OPERATION OP THE SAFETY-VALVE. We are now prepared to enter upon the consideration of tlie proper function or operation of the tricuspid valve; concerning which, I find that Richerand, in his “ Elements of Physiology*,” has the following remarkable observa- tion :—“ On the point of death, the lungs expand with difficulty ; and the blood sent into them, by the contractions of the right ventricle, being no longer able to circulate through them, collects in that cavity, flows back into the right auricle, in which the veins continue to deposit blood, stretches their parietes, and increases considerably the di- mensions of their cavities.” He observes, however, in continuation, that “ regurgitation is prevented by the tri- cuspid valve. “ but that a certain quantity of reflux pre- cedes the perfect closure of the valve f: and besides, the three portions of the tricuspid valve do not close completely the aperture around which they are placed; they are per- forated by a number of small holes: a part of the blood, therefore, returns into the auricle, but the greatest portion is sent into the pulmonary artery.” These perforations, how- ever, must, I think, be exceedingly rare. The works | of Harvey and Hunter contain distinct allu- ^ Chap. 3. § 51. The 4th edition, by Dr. Copland. -f- For the elucidation of this very reasonable opinion, see the state of the tricuspid curtains in Fig. 1. PI. 1 ; which may be supposed to shew an exaggerated degree ot openness in the valve, as produced by the simple afflux of blood ; and in the same manner, likewise, the quantity of regurgi- tation that must be produced previous to the accurate closing of the cur- tains together, whilst they are falling back, and the systole is proceeding. Dr. Reid has detailed, in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, April 183C, a number of experiments, in which the right side of the heart being found congested in animals poisoned or hanged, it was shewn that venesection, soon after the heart ceased to beat, at once relieved the right ventricle, and excited its pulsations. This would seem to shew both that the distention is powerful, and that reflux is necessary. The experi- ments were all performed on animals with the smallest share of safety-valve apparatus. X “ Ideo valvulae istse mitrales, mole et rohore, et exactuclausurd, illas in dextro positas exuperant.” Harvey, De Molu tj-c. “ I have reason to believe that the valves of the right side of the heart do not so perfectly do their duty as those of the left: therefore we may suppose it was not necessary.” {^Hunter: Animal QScon.) Hunter here includes the pulmonary sigmoid valves.