G Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. with the aorta, would even be rendered worse than useless, if its resistance were not in all respects equal to the force which fills that artery. The comparison of the gradations of the safety-valve in different animals of the class Mammalia, between the rodents and the ruminants, with the gradations described above in the young child, will not fail to furnish a solid argument in favour of the general theory, to those who are prepared to enter into the inquiry. It would only be to repeat my former descriptions, if I were to dwell more at length on these opinions. There is, however, one remark, which de- serves a separate reflection; namely, that the morbid dila- tation of the right ventricle occasionally carries the parallel between the human and inferior forms one marked step farther. Dr. Hodgkin was accustomed, long ago, to comjiare the blunt heart of settled pulmonary obstruction in man with the obtuse heart of some of the cetacea; and I think the same will apply, in a measure, to the valve. SECT. 2. A COMPARISON OF THE FREQUENCY OF THE PULSE WITH THE DEGREE OF SAFETY-VALVE FUNCTION IN DIFFERENT CASES. It must be evident, admitting wdiat has just been advanced, that the child after birth, as it gains more and more of a true safety-valve, obtains likewise a slower pulse. It is not intended, however, to maintain that the pulse and the safety- valve action bear a definite proportion to each other: it is only proposed to state a few facts which seem to suggest such a conclusion. With respect to warm-blooded animals, I conclude it is certainly the case, that as in the whole series (including birds as well as mammalia), the right auriculo-ventricular valve becomes more true and close (as a simple valve), so the pulse increases in frequency. This, as a general observa- tion, will not, I think, ever be controverted: yet it is very possible that some even considerable and striking exceptions remain to be discovered. Enough, however, appears already certain to render the statement a firm basis of reasoning; especially when we compare the fiicts from the animal series with the statement of the gradational evolutions or gradual increase of the safety-valve, and decreasing number of pulses in the young child.