FRACTURE. FHACTURES OF THE SACRUM. The sacrum can scarcely be broken, unless by such means as a gun-shot, or extremely violent blows,or compressions; and the injury is comrnensurately dangerous. (See Injuries OF THE Spine and Viscera.) The lower thin end is the more liable to fracture, and displacement of fragments, which are not very difficult to detect. The finger, per rectum, may assist to replace them. The indications are, to obviate inflammation with decision, and to secure the utmost ease and repose ; but the prognosis is necessarily anxious. A stiff belt, freely padded, and secured around the pelvis, with a moderate degree of force, so as rather to support than compress the fragments, seems to be the best means of providing for a safe repair. FRACTURES OF THE OS COCCYGI3. These are rare injuries, on account of the site of the coccyx, and its mobility on the sacrum, and the yielding of the parts which form this bone. When, however, the parts are united, and more particularly in the aged, the coccyx may be broken, or detached by any direct force driving in its extremity. The fracture may be attended with some comminution, or it may bo oi^en to the canal of the rectum. This injury is readily detected. Pain on walking ; and a depression at the part, caused by the sinking of the apex of the coccyx, and of the muscles attached to its sides, together with the dis])lacement, mobility and crepitus, to be felt with the finger in the rectum, ren- der the nature of the accident sufficiently evident. Abscesses, necrosis, and caries, with more or less difficidty in the bowels, may fol- low this fracture. A gentle effort to coaptate the fragments is all the reduction that can be well attempted. Rest and the recumbent posture, avoiding all means of depressing the parts until repair has taken place, are the necessary points in the after treatment of the case. Walking would displace the fragments by the action of the lower fibres of the great gluteus. FRACTURES OF THE OS INNOMINATUM. Heavy blows or severe crushes arc the causes of these injuries; although slighter forces may detach a fragment, as the anterior superior spine. The injury is almost as fre- quently on two sides as on one ; and more frequently in the severer cases. Divisions of the two rami of the pubis, fractures of ischium, body of the pubes and acctahnlum, and fis- siirings of the plate of the ilium, may occur; and this is about the order of their frequency. Separation of an iliac synchondrosis, or of the pubic sym])hysis, often attends a fraclnrc. These two luxations can scarcely else occur separately. The displacement of fragments is very va- rious. The signs are mostly obscure, in pro- portion as the injury is slight. Lesions of the viscera constitute the first danger; inflam- mation the next. The laceration of consider- able vessels is rare. It is only well to ascertain as much of the nature of the cases as may be done without distressing the sufferer, and it is rarely well to make violent attempts to replace fras- ments. Occasionally, the muscles cause much dis- placement of fragments. A house-painter fell from the top of a ladder on to the pave: the middle of the crest of the ilium, four fingers’ breadth square, w'as detached, and drawn up ' nearly into contact with the ribs ; and thus the patient got well. (Sanson.) Position might, doubtless, effect some advantageous readjustment. The benefit, however, of all I measures for the replacement or retention of: fragments, besides such as are very gentle, is,. at least, uncertain ; and this applies to all the fractures of the pelvis. Firm bandages, or straps and buckles around the pelvis, are usually recommended to ob- viate mobility of fragments, and to secure con- solidation. For the first object, the pressure? need not be severe, and may be hurtful ; and! for the second, the delay of a week or two,' may be advisable. A thick bed of wool or flock, to support all parts of the body equally, and great care to, relieve the pelvis from any strain that may? increase deformity, will be the best sources- of ease to the patient. The constitutional treatment depends chiefly' in these cases on considerations connected with the viscera. (See Injuries.) The first collapse may be fatal. Inflammation, extend-- ing in the soft tissues of the pelvis, is much regulated by the individual diathesis ; the most active means should be employed to obviate or arrest it, since it tends to disor- - ganization. Limited abscesses indicate a bet- ter constitution. The matter should be eva-- cuated early; and fragments of dead bonC' may thus be released : these, however, arc subjects of additional anxiety. Fractures of the acetabulum are usuall} connected with other fractures of the os inno- minatum ; yet it would seem that they may occur as more simple injuries. Dupuytreir described the circumstance of the head of the femur being driven through the cotyloid cell, and thus luxated into the pelvis. A young man fell from a great elcvatioi on to the pave (of rough stones), and died i few hours afterwards in the IIotel-Dien a Paris. There was no fracture of the uppei limbs, but the two acctabula were commi niited, and fragments were driven on to tin pelvis ; the round ligaments were entire, am the heads of the thigh-bones wore in thei |)laccs. (Sanson.) 'I'lie fracture of the acetabulum may oceu a,s a kind of diastasis, but still wo arc tc,^ exjK'Ct other attendant injuries.