7l Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Birds. contraction of the right ventricle had diminished the cavity very evidently, before the injection was commenced. The wide valvular crescent was seen to spread out in the plane of the valvular fissure, as a true valve. The least additional pressure behind it was sufiicient to produce a reflux, even during the time of each imperfect systole ; so that it was not possible to restore that degree of fulness which had been found at first. The entire heart contracted firmly in about a quarter of an hour. An old duck, that had been ill fed, was shut up for two days, with as much meal-paste and water as it would take. Its neck was then dislocated; but it continued to stand up, sometimes fluttering, and probably breathing all the while, and still imperfectly'raising its head. After about eight minutes, its side was opened, and much blood flowed. The heart beat powerfully : the right ventricle was a good deal distended. The whole was flaccid in the intervals of con- ' tractions. On being removed and injected whilst an uniform but rather feeble systole was repeated, it was very plain that a degree of fulness, certainly not exceeding that which had existed in situ, was accompanied by a copious reflux. When the injection was stayed, repeated systoles were not able to re-adjust the valve. The free edge of the valvular crescent might be seen inclined slightly into the auricle, and that of the crescent of distention was also visible in the valvular fissure. In about two hours, the cavity was mode- rately contracted, and its valve almost true. A nearly full-grown goose was decapitated about an hour after a full meal. It bled freely, and without, as I think, ceasing to breathe, its movements were pretty lively, and without any violent struggle for three or four minutes. Whilst still moving, the heart was exposed through the ribs. Its pulsations were rather gentle and uniform. It was empty and loose, most remarkably on the left side. Being removed, and injected with the small pipe of the syringe, it was evidently unable to form a close valve, without very great contraction of the cavity. Long before the cavity was simply filled, the reflux was excessive. Nothing was to be seen of the crescent of distention*. In tliirty liours, the • Probably on account of tho width of the attachment of distention.