19 in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. and ventricle to an excessive degree, even when their walls have attained to nearly double their natural thick- ness*? Remembering the soft and relaxed state of the ventricle during its diastole, no one can suppose the cavity to be endowed with a power of dilating, even beyond the natural limit of its diastole. Yet the cavity does become morbidly expanded; sometimes, when its walls are unusually feeble; at another time, without any evident alteration in their substance; and, in a third case, the walls seem to increase, both in substance and power, dui'ing the process of dilatation f- May it not be concluded, that the natural full diastole of the right ventricle (as well as that of the left) takes place by a forcible internal accumulation; which accumulation, it is plain, can be the only cause of all greater degrees of dila- tation ? SECT. 4.—DESCRIPTION OF THE HUMAN TRICUSPID VALVE. The right auriculo-veniricular opening is oval|; and to its circumference the membrane of the tricuspid valve has at- tachment, without any distinct interruption; whilst its floating border, depending into the ventricle, is deeply fissured, so as to form three or more scalloped or angular curtains: and it appears, from careful examination, that the united areas of these valvular portions are scarcely more than equal to the mean extent of the oval opening. One of the curtains (which, being least moveable, I have called fixed) occupies the left margin of the aperture in apposition with the solid wall, * The left auricle is very liable to extreme dilatation, and to hypertrophy, and often when the communication through the mitral aperture is most con- fined : which circumstance seems to exclude the idea of any other source of forcible distention besides the arrested stream from the pulmonary veins. An auricle thus circumstanced, that would contain an orange of large size, and which has exerted great compression on the neighbouring parts such as I have many times seen, must furnish a strong testimony in favour of a dis- tending venous current. It is now some years since I first found the left bronchus flattened by the pressure of the dilated left auricle ; and this I continue, occasionally, both to find and to prognosticate. -|- Or the additional muscularity may be acquired during some favourable nourishing interval in the dilating process; the enlarged cavity having a much greater effort to make, in order to propel its accumulating contents. X See Fig. 2. IM. 1.