41 FRACTURE. siderable force in a fatiguing posture, is often wearied, and has liis efficiency thereby im- paired, before his e.xertions are actually called for. • • u Extension is now to be made, either with the leg flexed, at nearly a right-angle upon the thigh, and the thigh upon the trunk, or with the whole limb extended, according as it is designed to place it on the double- inclined plane, or in the extended position ; or, according as strong spasmodic resistance from the muscles of the fractured part of the limb, or other dangers, are more or less threatening. In general it is advisable to pay strict attention to the rule I am exem- plifying, that the extension shall be exer- cised upon the part of the limb that arti- culates with the lower fragment, and the counter-extension on that which articulates with the upper. The principal reason for not applying these forces to the upper and lower portions of the limb, the bone of which is broken, independently of the circumstance, that in many cases one or other of the frag- ments is too short to render this possible, is, that by proceeding in this manner we should, by the compression exercised upon them, irri- tate the muscles attached to the broken bone, and so provoke spasmodic contractions of them, which would add seriously to the difficulty of reduction. In all cases too, in which assist- ants are required for extension and counter- extension, they and the surgeon would be crowded together, so as very much to impede one another. When much force of extension is required in the case we have chosen, and when, consequently, it is to be made with the leg flexed, the assistant will be able to exert considerably greater force if he make the ex- tension with the upper part of the front of the forearm, instead of the hand, placed on the back of the leg immediately below the ham. The extension demands much greater care on the part ofthe assistant than counter-exten- sion. 'I'he surgeon himself should superintend every step of it—its 'direction, its degree, &c. and should employ,forputtingit in practice, the assistant upon whose intelligence he can place most reliance. As the surgeon does not pro- ceed to perform his part of the operation—the coaptation, till the extension has been fully effected, he may in the meantime give his whole attention to this. Let him be pro- vided with a tape divided into inches, and parts of an inch, with which he has taken accurately, on the sound limb, the distance between two prominent points in the bone corresponding to the fractured one, and above and below the seat of fracture, having pre- viously ascertained that there is no ditt'erenco ot length between the bones, occasioned by a former fracture, or any other cause. Ho will thus be able to know with precision, when the extension has restored the natural length ofthe broken bone. The surgeon will direct the extension to be madegradually and steadily ; at first, in the direction ofthe lower fragment, and then in that of the axis of the bone. No greater force of extension will ever be required than one, or, at most, twoassistants can exert. The lacs, and other mechanical means by which violent extension was sometimes ap- plied during the barbarism of surgery, are now universally and justly reprobated. In cases in which the use of such means seem to be justified by the great resistance of the muscles about the fracture, it is unquestion- ably good practice to desist from all attempts at exact reduction, till, by leeching and steep- ing the fractured limb, by general blood- letting, and the use of nauseating doses of tartarized antimony, we have reduced the irri- tation and inflammation, to which the exces- sive resistance of the muscles is owing. The force of the extension within the prescribed bounds, is to be proportioned to the number and power of the muscles that cause the dis- placement and resist the extension, and to the degree in which displacement exists. When the extension has restored the natu- ral length of the bone, or has even gone a little beyond this, coaptation is to be per- formed by the surgeon. This is to be effected by gently forcing the fragments into appo- sition by the pressure of the palms of the hands,and by the fingers and thumbs. In frac- tures with splinters, we must perform the reduction with the utmost gentleness, to avoid forcing the spiculae of bone into the flesh. The force required in performing coaptation is generally proportional to the size of the bone, the number and thickness of the mus- cles, and the degree of displacement in the direction of the diameter of the bone. There are certain fractures produced by muscular contraction, in which it is usually said, that extension and counter-extension are useless, and coaptation alone required. It would be more correct to say, that in these cases extension and counter-extension are to be applied in a direction the reverse of that, in which they are exercised in ordinaiy frac- tures. Thus, in transverse fracture of the patella, the lower fragment being maintained in its natural situation by a sort of counter- extension, the upper fragn e.it is to be drawn down, the use of which is precisely the same as the object for which we apply extension in common fractures,—to counteract the effect of the contraction of the muscles that cause the displacement. In the groat majority of cases the sooner the reduction is effected the better; the muscles are thereby restored merely to that degree of tension which is natural to them ; the irritation of the surrounding soft parts and muscles, from the rough, perhaps sjiicu- culated, broken surfaces of the fragments,— which must continue in a greater or less degree, while the longitudinal displacement is suH'ered to remain,—is thus, as far as ])ossible, removed ; and the fragments being placed in the situation in which they arc to be perma- nently maintained, us soon as nature can summon her forces, she may commence the work of repair. In those cases which occa-