FRACTURE. Fig. 58. Fig. 59. Fig. 330. Obliiiue fracture of the shaft of the femur a tittle below the trochanters, rhe under poHioti is drawn uiiusmdly upwards and forwards^ while the upper fragment is directed out- tvards. The new ossifica- tion is abundant,, but prin- cipally betiveen the txuo portions. The above is the representation of an un- common deqree of defor- mity., which almost pro- claims of itself the deside- rata of its treatment. Fig. 331. Mr. Amesbury's Apparatus for fractures of the ujtper part of the femur. “ Composition. Three pieces of board are to be procured of sufficient length to rest upon the sides of Ihebedstcad, 5, by which the apparatus itself is to be raised from the floor. One of these, c c, should be placed near the lower end of the frame, a a; the second near the lower end of the upjper plane, e ; a?id the third near the upper end of the frame. The middle and lower planes, d d, being raised to the proper degree of elevation, rest upon the rack, i, of the frame, and are covered by a hair mattress, ivhich should extend the xcluile length also of the plane, e, as they lie connected toge ther. The mattress should be provided with a hole at tlui part which corresponds to the middle plane of the apparatus. A blanket and sheet, luith a hole in each, to correspond to the hole in the mattress, are to bo applied over this, and stitched round the edge, III, atid round the hole in the centre, placed op- posite the trap-door, f in order to prevent them from getting into folds and in- commoding the patient. “ Application.—77<e patient is to be placed upon the mattress with the penneum opptosite the hole in the middle plane of the ajrjMratus ; and the lower limbs, m m, over the double inclined plane. The fool of tlus injured limb should then be fixed by meuxis of a baxid, 71, and a pad pUwed just helow the catcimal malleo- lus, to the foot-board, k, which will keep it upright, with the heel close down against the mattress. After ichich the middle plane, d, shoidd be adapted to the length of the sound thigh, by the txuo portions of board ofu-hich it is composed, being xnovea upoxi each other so as to elongate or shorien it as it may be foxind xie- cessaxy ; it is fixed by the screw, g. The pxeh'is and^ lixxib 7ttay Ixc thus kept perfectly (ptiet, and xxwtioxi of the fragxnents totally px-erexxted ; coxitixxued ca'tevsioxi may Itc, xnude ixi the lixic of the thigh-lxoxus and x'etruc- lioxi of the lixxxj} prcvcxited, tuhilc xteilher ixivcrston xior eversion of the foot can possibly take place. Whexi the nu(!k of the thlgh-lxoxie is fractured, there are ttvo ixi- dications to Ixe fulfilled, naxnely, to prevexit the upper cxid of the fexnur froxxi droppixig f/vxn its xiatural lixie, axid to keep the frachircd surfaces in perfect coxitact. The first is doxie by px-opcxiyplacixxg a sxxiall pad under the tx-ochanter majtr, behcecxi it axid the xnattress; axid the secoxid by a padded splixit, q, r, placed aloxxg the oxUerside of the thigh, axid secux'ed to the pelvis and loxccr pax't of the thigh by two simple bands, t, s, ichich should be tied round the pelvis, so as to exexi a sufficient dcgx-ce of pressure to keep the fructux'ed surfaces in coxitact, Jxt fractures o/' the trochanter major above the neck, the lixnb should be kept ixi a positioxi to allow of the great toe beixig ixt a line with the anterior supexior spixioxis pxvce.’is of the ilium. Unless, in these cases, there is fracture also