FRACTURE. m loose sequestrated portion of the shaft. It is evident that the new hone becomes attached to the old by ossi- fication at least above, tvhere also it is probable that new bone teas first formed; and it would also appear, from the formoftkenew shell, that it had never adhered, to or lain near the dead shaft, tuhich in the original is however someu'hat worm-eaien. It is certain that the new shell teas lined by a gramdating periosteum: it constituted an abscess, containing a foreign body ; and its nwre natural cloaca below was much narrowed, by ossification.—Guy's Museum. dent that undue pressure on the edges of the opening would cause periostitis and increase of bone inclining to close up the opening, and to extend the surface as well as to complete the dome? for the exciting pressure would be per- pendicular to the cut end of the shaft. I think it is apparent also, that the growth depends mainly on the periosteum ; for the cut surface of the shaft seems very little active, and its lining membrane almost inert. When additional changes take place they are distinctly attributable to the external mem- brane. It usually happens, ultimately, that the new tube of bone disappears from around the shaft; but it is, however, by no means uncommon for this tube to be so rapidly and extensively developed as to cut off the nu- trition from the surface of the shaft, which, consequently, dies and becomes sequestrated, as a worm-eaten tube several inches in length, and the cause of much troublesome, or even dangerous delay before it can be discharged. On the whole, however, the appearance to which I would attach the chief importance for my present purpose, is one of rarer occur- rence. Fig. 16. A section showing an effect of amputation on the thigh-bone,^ namely, ossification at the circumference of the surface of suppoH. I refer to the effect of excessive pressure, and attrition, in the old healthy thigh-stump! By degrees the surface of the bone which serves for support and progression becomes expanded by deposition at its circumference, so as to present an appearance in section like the diagram above. There are other causes which induce partial little exostoses in a stump, but all these cases are alike in the fact that they depend on periostitis ; and the case is only more evident when excessive inflamma- tion deprives the new external ossifications of all appearance of healthfulncss, as sometimes happens, rendering them irregular, spongy, and not only useless, but pernicious. It mify happen that the production of now bone shall be tardy or deficient; and it is on this ac- count that I have thought it worth while to consider if some injury of the periosteum might not be contrived, in order to expand the osseous point of support in the stump. Such an experiment is not to be attempted heedlessly. In France, I believe, it has been practised at the time of amputation, but with only mischievous consequences. When the treatment of non-union is under review we must again notice this topic. Now, in the case of the healing stump we have a type of all the repairing changes of fracture. Whether the parts heal by adhe- sion, by snpjuiration without necrosis, or after the death of the cut end of the bone, and perhaps excessive formation of new shell, the analogy is equally apparent. The repair of simple or open fracture is thus completely traced out : the mere act of uniting frag- ments is all that remains to be carried out,—or rather amplified, and even this is in a manner typified ; for the formation of a dome by the extension of periosteum and bone, from side to side, of the cylinder (from the circum- ference to the centre), is precisely, in kind, what takes place, from fragment to fragment, in the repair of fractures, whether simple or open. The more the several and minute particu- lars of the cicatrizations and junctions of peri- osteum are examiijed, the more they will appear satisfactory as a series of phenomena, and valuable as a source of practical indica- tions. At least, such is my owm conviction. Periosteum, raised by effusions or violence, may again unite to its bone, and a new organi- zation may unite by adhesion to a cut surface of bone, or by granulation to an ulcerated part, as after exfoliation; and the vascular adhesion finally becomes efficient periosteum. I have adverted to the fact, that the adven- titious bone formed around the remains of a shaft after amputation, as indeed after any other excitation, tends to waste w’hen the re- paration is complete ; but this is only to be remarked as the last point of analogy, as it mav be said to represent the modelling action which concludes reunion. It is, in part, to be compared to the shrinking of a cicatrix, or exuberant granulations. The repair of ampu- tations is, as we have said, rej)eated in tliat of fractures, but with these differences: in fractures there are, as it were, tw'o amputations in one cavity * ; the injuries are considerably greater ; bnt the constitution of the sufferer is usually more efficient. Pcnostilis begins almost as soon as the injury has been injhcted. —It may be retarded, as well as obscured, by extravasation ; or hemor- rhage, or collapse, or idiosyncrasy may delay it; but the physiologist knows that the pro- ducts of intlammation arc but late proofs of its existence ; and that palpable tumefaction ' It is niiitc! poBsiblo in am])i\talion, ns in fraotnrr, tlml the (livificd ends of radius and ninn, or of tilii.a and fibula, slionld heconio united together hv ossili- ention.