FHACTURE. 1 O] The manner in which the compact tissue of the tipper frapment is split, as it were, into layers, that become continuous, more or less distinctly, across the callus, with the compact tissue of the lower frayment, is remarkable, and is common in preparations of this kind. a, 'a, are condyles of the femora ; at b, c, and 'b, the splitting of the compact tissue of the upper fragment alluded to takes place, and the layers into which they split can be traced to the compact tissue of the lower fragment; from d to e, and from 'b to 'c, the medul- lary canal is obliterated. of the bone and callus appears to be as fol- lows, viz. Shaf Callus. Animal matter . . . 38’60 38‘8 Phosphate lime, &c. 61'40 61'2 100-00 100-0 The specimen examined was a “ fracture of the humerus, re-united by a clasp of new bone around the outer surface of the fragments (where nicely opposed) and a portion in the medullary canal. The extremities of the frag- ments are not yet consolidated. The exter- nal callus may in some places be easily sepa- rated from the old bone.” See pi. ix. fig. 4, of the third fasciculus of anatomical drawings from the Museum at Chatham. The following analysis by M. Henry Gau- thier de Claubry proves, that the ultimate density, approaching that of ivory, of the cal- lus, is owing to supersaturation with calca- reous matter. Original bone. Callus. Animal matter .... 56-284 . . 43-795 Carbonate of lime . . 3'846 . . 9-785 Phosphate of lime . . 38-075 . . 44-894 Phosphate of magnesia P012 . . P526 From the foregoing analyses, and from some other circumstances, it would appear that the new bone is at one period very similar to, if not the same as, the original solid ; but that, finally, the new structure becomes less anirnal- ized, or even less vital. The preceding minute detail of the entire process of repair in fracture, is derived from the laborious investigations of the above-men- tioned authorities, but especially from the paper on the formation of callus, in the fourth volume of the “ Lefons Orales,” of Dupuytren. d'he attempt to explain the formation of callus has given birth to numerous theories; which, however, in my opinion, possess neither in- terest nor value, except in connexion with the history of physiological science. I regret to be obliged to expend time in recording or criticising theories which 1 think quite irre- concileable with our present knowledge in physiology. We are as yet without the facts necessary to the establishment of a theory of the formation of callus, on a truly philoso- phical—on a Baconian basis. This theory, I conceive, must ho a part of the groat theory of nutrition. When w-e shall know the dif- ferences in structure, distribution, nervous supply, and vital forces, depending upon some electric, galvanic, magnetic, electro-inagnctic, or other inrluence at present absolutely un- known, which confer upon the nutritive arte- ries of various parts of the animal body, the power of selecting from the circulating mass, and depositing with such surprising steadiness and beautiful precision, for a long series of years, in one place, nervous matter ; in an- other, muscular fibre ; in a third, bone : when ■we shall know these differences, we shall be in a condition to theorize rationally respecting the formation of callus. Do I hazard much in asserting, that many a minute and laborious experimental inquiry lies between us and the possession of such knowledge ? The power that nature possesses in the production of bone, and the reproduction of it when lost or deprived of life, is astonishing ;—far greater than those she exhibits in the reproduction of many other tissues. In the stag tribe, vast quantities of bone are lost and replaced annually. In the beautiful skeleton of fossil Irish elk, in the museum of the Dublin Col- lege of Surgeons, the huge horns of that noble animal weigh certainly much more than half the bones of the whole body. These horns w-ere shed and reproduced annually. Any of this tribe of animals in which the repro- duction of bone is so frequent and so rapid, would supply admirable subjects for the inves- tigation of the physiology of bone. And 1 think that noble owners of herds would do well in lending their aid as freely to any one devoting himself to this subject, as did Charles the First in giving his deer to Harvey, when he was engaered upon his beautiful “ Exerci- tationes de Generatione Animalium.” In necrosis, what efforts does nature dis- play for the reproduction of bone ! How fre- quently do we witness the accidental deposi- tions of bone in exostoses and nodes ; in the ossification of cartilages, as those of the larynx in old age ; in that of fibrous membranes, as the dura mater ; and in that of tendons ! These considerations might almost induce us rather to wonder that nature is ever reduced to the ne- cessity of uniting the fragments of a broken bone by ligamentary bands, than that she per- forms her ordinary cures by bony union in a manner so admirable and so perfect. The earliest speculations on the formation of callus attributed it to the effusion of a gelatinous or osseous juice between and around the fragments of tlie fractured bone. By a gradual inspissation, this juice passed, as was supposed, from its original fluid to a solid con- dition, uniting the fragments much in the same maimer that two pieces of wood arc united by the carpenter with glue. Considering the condition of physiological science at the time when this theory was in favour, it was much less indefensible than it now a])pears. The entire want of sensibility of bone in its healthy state, and its mineral aspect, led the early phy- siologists to believe it to be not possessed of vitality. Its fractures, therefore, might bo repaired by an inorganic osseous juice solder- ing the fragments together. They observed, too, in a great number of animals, a secretion t aking place, which hardened into a substance, C