Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Birds. 75 valvulai’ action occasionally met with in experiment, I have scarcely yet totally dispelled a doubt that has frequently presented itself, and sometimes forcibly; namely, whether the valve is in any bird altogether insusceptible of a refluent function It has now been shewn, that a certain structural analogy prevails in the right ventricular valve of all double-hearted animals, and that the varieties of ai’rangement manifestly render the valve more or less liable to disturbance by internal distention. I may be allowed to state, that, what- ever obscurity may attach to so extensive a sketcht, I cannot entertain the least uncertainty that the most rigorous test of experiment will but confirm the inference of a safety- valve, in numerous degrees, throughout the two classes of animals. In man> we must still reserve for farther study the varied states of activity of the venous circulation, those of accumu- lation and obstruction or undue propulsion in the riglit ven- ti’icle, the effects of a difficult or too forcible circulation in the lungs, and the consequences of venous obstruction in the different organs of the body. To these subjects, we can scarcely attach too much importance, whether in a physio- logical point of view, or with respect to morbid conditions. * This does not appear unreasonable, anatomically, even with the very type of the close valves before me, in the heart of the China pheasant. The great laxity of the parts whilst living, the distention which seems so readily produced during life in all cases, the relaxation of the yielding margin of the valvular aperture, so striking in some experiments, still tempt me to entertain this doubt. In the process of injection, it is impossilde to estimate the force employed ; but I would recommend, as I have always endeavoured, to adapt the force with great care, beginning l>y slight degrees, in order, if possible, to produce a perfect closure of the valve. •f" It would have been impossible, in this place, to supply a lengthened description of many specimens: indeed, only a part could be referred to. Many experiments have been omitted, from the same cause, as well as some highly interesting circumstances of analogy in the muscular crescent of the ornithorynchuS, and in those of the right ventricle of the crocodile.