FRACTURE. 91- “ In seventeen of the cases in which resec- tion was employed, other methods of ope- rating are stated to have been tried, and to have failed ; of which the seton was used six times. “ In the thirty-eight cases in which resec- tion was resorted to, accidents dependent upon the treatment followed, and not termi- nating in death, occurred nine times, (erysi- pelas, six ; profuse suppuration and abscesses, two ; phlegmasia dolens, one).” The strength of testimony against the ope- ration of resection, and the weakness of the evidence in its favour, certainly places it in close connexion with the last of the severe measures of resource, which is amputation,— if, in truth, it ought not to be totally excluded. The more a case might seem favourable for the trial of resection, the more it should seem to admit of hope by less fearful remedies. The moditications to which I have alluded above, consist in cutting down to the fracture, to permit of the introduction of a spatula (according to the practice adopted by Mr. Hunter) or some such instrument, for the purpose of rudely irritating the artificial joint; in the resection of one fragment only, when much difficulty is experienced in bringing the- other under the saw, the surgeon being satis- fied with paring with the scalpel, or rasping the extremity of the other fragment; in de- stroying, under circumstances similar to those of the last case, with potassa fusa, or other powerful escharotic, the fibrous tissue on the fragment which cannot, without difficulty, be reached by the saw, and even part of the bone itself. The results of experience with respect to various plans of treatment must not be looked upon as a settled basis of reasoning in our endeavours to determine the safest and readiest means of success ; at least not until both the varieties of cases, and the true causes of difficulty, are fairly established. The fol- lowing summary of the former table will, however, not be without its uses : “ Of 46 cases in which the seton * was em- ployed, 36 were cured, 3 partial cures, 5 no benefit, 2 died. “ Of 38 cases in which resection ^ was em- ployed, 24 were cured, 1 partial cure, 7 no benefit, 6 died. “ Of 36 cases in which pressure and rest were employed, 29 were cured, 1 partial cure, 6 no benefit. “ Of 8cases in which caustic was employed, 6 were cured, 2 no benefit. “Of 11 cases in which frictions were em- ployed, 11 were cured. “Of 11 cases in which other methods^ ' Including the methods of Wcinhold, Somme, 0|mcnheim, and Secrig. * Including all cases in which the ends of the bone were scraped, rasped, or excised. ® Iodine, .‘5, all cured; injections, 1, cured; cry- si|)clns, 1, cured ; hot iron, 1, cured ; amputation, 5, 1 cured, 2 died, 1 failed, 1 not stated. were employed, 7 were cured, 1 received no benefit, 2 died, 1 result not stated.” With the exception of the application of , blisters over the seat of the fracture, none of . these methods of treatment are exempt from danger. I have enumerated them with refer- , ence to their severity and danger, the first ' being the least severe and dangerous, and so ] on ; and therefore, if a case presented itself i to me, in w'hich none of them had been tried, i I would recommend the trial of them in the ; order of their enumeration. With respect » to the last methods, which are unquestion- : ably the most efficacious, but at the same [ time the most dangerous, I do not think the present state of our knowledge of such cases , enables us to pronounce a positive opinion as to which of them is upon the whole most suc- cessful ; because the cases of success and failure of each method, that have been pub- lished, have.not, in general, been recorded w'ith such minuteness as to show whether the cases are, or are not, truly equivalent. Sup- pose two cases of failure, in one of which Dr. Physick’s method was practised, and, in the other, Mr. White’s ; but that, in the former, the case was of short standing, in a youth of sound constitution ; while, in the latter, the case was of long standing, in an old subject of broken down constitution : it is obvious that the one would be a very strong case- against the seton, and the other a very weak, one against resection of the fragments. We must not, therefore, form our judgment in this matter merely on a blind reckoning up of the number of cases that make for and against each method ; and I repeat, that the cases we have in our possession have not generally been recorded in such a manner as , to enable us safely to classify them, according to the weight they are really entitled to in the scales of our judgment. Professor Gib- son’s oj)inion, that the failure of the seton is often attributable to its not having received a sufficiently patient trial, is well worthy of attention. Whatever method we adopt, our chances of success seem almost unequivocally certain with reference to the leg and fore-arm ; and it is even probable that a just discrimination of cases and settled pursuit of an appropriate simple method would always suffice. With respect to the bones of the thigh and rus, less than three-fourths of the recorded cases have been cured, fatal dangers have b^*' incurred, and it would still appear that milder and more efficacious means may have better success* 1 have not made it sufficiently plain, that the capsular form of pscudarthrosis is very uncommon. Out of a considerable number of examples of false joint in the inuseums o London, I have only seen two which I thinK deserve the name of capsular. These were both formed a little below the middle of tne fore-arm, involving both bones, and atten c with a marked overlapping of the upper irag- nionts forwards. Sec fig. 310. The sccono instance is very similar, it is in the collection 12