FRACTURE. 32 formed upon the inner face of the old before its death, and subsequently have been sepa- rated with the living membrane. When we see, in the very lengthened liga- mentous union of a broken patella, an isolated point of bone, are we to infer that it is a new ossification, or an old fragment? If a cica- trization appear to have commenced in the centre of a broad ulcer, do we not regard it as a very doubtful exception to an almost constant course of events ? and shall we not enquire what there is to prove that a penin- sula of skin has not been detached to form it ? The following instance from the work last quoted is another of the kind which demands the most cautious examination, since it is op- posed to the common course of events— unless, indeed, it be only an erroneous view of a common fact. “ Fig. 6, PI. 9, is a section of the fractured humerus of a rabbit, nine days after the injury. As is generally the case in over- lapping fractures (with angular displace- ment), the reparative process is principally Fig. 21. Fie. 21 M a sufficievtly faithful drawing of recently repuruied fracture of thcjeniur, in the Museum of Guii's Ilosjntal. There has tmen a dotdjle transverse, and lonaitudinal. fracture. The fragments Im soft 'sjmmw hone, and it is very apparent that the new osslficalton hits t>een formed only where it w(M wanted, where injured hone was present, and beneath, oru/inal and cicatrized periosteum. Some parts, as well as the medullary cavity, seem to hare been but incompletely repaired. confined to the concave side of the frag, ments, which is filled ui) by a fibro-carti laginilorm substance, in the centre of whicl is seen a distinct osseous nucleus, quit' unconnected wdth the old bone. In sonn- experiments made by Mr. Gulliver, this dis- tinct point of ossification was generally ob served when there was great displacement o the fragments, appearing to be a provision t( facilitate the union between the regular cal lus, which commences at a distance fron the fractured extremities. This central bony matter, therefore, being dependent on thi accidental circumstances of the case, migh be termed the irregular or accidental callus- to distinguish it from the regular callus, whicl always commences at a distance from the line of fracture.” The account here given of the situation o the principal mass of cartilaginous matten assists to demonstrate the states which almos- every displacement after fractures must leac to. When the boundaries of inflammatior exceed the limits of injury a little in all direc- tions, and fragments are thrust almost out o. these limits, the latter must of course be fair removed from the centre of the repairing, products, and, finally, the contraction which follows inflammatory tumefactions leaves the- most displaced points still more superficial!} • placed. This statement is not equally applicable tc the mass of new bone; for, while with angulan displacement the broken ends are inclinec from the centre of mischief and its inflaniraa-. tory consequences, the excited ossification with every kind of fracture, follows the origi - nal bone, depends on its presence, its injury> and its vascular supply ; is kept up by its- wants, (weakness and motion, &c.) and de- clines as the increased strength of the unior obviates the yielding that excites inflamma- tion. Thus we see, at a glance, why tht chief ossifications occur exactly, and only- where they are required ; that is, where £ Eart is yielding, or unduly strained ; anc ence we know that due consolidation cannoC be accomplished, until the parts have for £ while experienced their full share of strain and tension. These views are sufficientl} illustrated in the following example of a ver} common appearance. The author, Mr. Gulliver, justly observed! that the regular callus (bone) commences at a distance from the fractured extremities, i. e. as 1 have shown, bone, upon the bone beneath the periosteum. The “ irregular or accidental callus,” when I have found it, has been formed' in precisely the same way as the most regular ossification, a fragment of the original bone forming the basis, as it wore, of crystalli- zation. It is from the results of experiments on rodents and carnivora, animals of the most rapid and active circulations (next to birds) and from the appearances produced by exces- sive inflammation, and continued motion ol^ the broken bone, that the idea has arisen oi