H2 FRACTURE. rather recent. The new hone, loth before and behind, was abundant to the very nuirgin of the articular cartilage, beyond which the fissure remained unalter- ed. Abduction of the leg might have diminished the retraction of the inner condyle. In an oblique fracture of the external or internal condyle of the femur into the joint, the position of the utmost ease and quiet is desirable for some days. Subsequently the extended position is preferred, that the head of the tibia may maintain the face of the frac- tured condyle in a right line with its fellow. The limb having been previously so placed upon a pillow as to give rest ; and sucn time having been given, that leeches and evapo- rating lotions may be applied for the removal of swelling and inflammation ; Sir A. Cooper directs that a roller be af>plied round the knee, and that a piece of stiff pasteboard dip- ped in warm water be applied under the knee, and confined by another roller : the paste- board is to be about sixteen inches long, and sufficiently wide to extend under the joint, and to each side of it, as far as the edges of the patella; it thus adapts itself to the joint, and retains its form when dry, so as best to confine the bones. He says also, that splints of tin or wood may be used on each side of the joint; but, being apt to create uneasy pressure, he does not seem to recommend them. There is not the least reason to anti- cipate ankylosis, unless inflammatory disor- ganization of the joint first occurs. The preservation of free flexion, and exten- sion of the leg, in a boy, is recorded after a compound fracture of the external condyle ; and even after a portion of it had been ex- tracted. “ My dear Sirh Oct. 20, 1842. “ I have carefully read your paper on frac- tures of the thigh There are, how- ever, one or two points on which, venturing to differ from the generally received opinions, as adverted to in your paper, I offer for your consideration the following remarks. “ The cause of the displacement which the broken ends of a bone undergo, has usually been sought for in the muscles that act upon the upper fragment. Thus, when the tibia is broken two or three inches below its tu- bercle, and the upper portion projects or rides > Some apology may appear necessary for inserting tlie above letter, where a strict regularity of arrange- ment is confessedly a chief object of soliciUule; but 1 shall hope, in this case, to stand excused. Being aware that Mr. Key had been for some time occupied iii a narticular manner, witli certain points in the subject of fractures, I submitted to him (my former master in sui- cery), the proofs of tlic foregoing jiagcs relative to trac- turcs of the tliigh-bono, with some hope tliat he would have had time, so to correct or extend them, as to make them his own, which could not but liavc been to the advantage of tlie reader. 1 have to regret that the proofs were returned to mo with only a i.avouralilc opinion of them, and tlie above letter, which I could neither tliink of omitting nor of using as a note. Mr. Key’s reflections are, in a measure, mdisiicnsablc to the full knowledge of, and ought to be made a part of, the general doctrine of fractures. over the lower, the deformity is attributed t' the influence of the extensors acting througl' the medium of the patella ; and position, b. i relaxing these muscles, is held to be the bes- means of rectifying the crooked limb. If th , thigh be fractured one-third of its length downM'ard, and the end of the upper fragmen is seen projeeting either forwards or outwards - (two most common kinds of displacement) tk ■ flexors or abductors are supposed to be i .i fault; and the position that shall relax th . psoas and iliacus, or the smaller glutaei, i regarded, ccetens paiibus, as the most advanu tageous. “ The reason why so much is attributed t- the muscles that act upon the upper portio: i of bone is, the great displacement which thi sustains, in comparison with the lower; th < latter appearing to undergo little or no change of position, and preserving a nearly straigh:. line. And, as in the case of a broken thigh, the only muscles that can draw the upper pai.r forward are those above named, the displace;- ment is at once attributed to an undue actio i of these flexors. It is not, however, easy t -. understand, why muscles situated far abovM the fracture, and sustaining no injury, shoul < be disposed to act upon the offensive, whih those muscles that act in the opposite direc.- tion, should be wholly passive on the occasioi';i It is still more difficult to comprehend, wh ; the extensor quadriceps, lying upon the femu;.: should be disposed to such inconvenient ao. tion as that of perversely drawing the uppe- portion of a broken tibia forwards ; the site ( the fracture having no apparent connexio; i with the muscles to which the displacement : attributed. If we examine this matter w shall find, that the muscles at a distance froi the fracture, sustaining no irritation, take n part in the displacement; and the sole cause ( the over-riding of one piece over the othe i will be found in the muscles immediately at I joining the site of fracture. “ The violence that accompanies a fractuiv; is usually productive of more or less eflusio of blood; from laceration, either of periosteui or of the muscle attached to the bone ; and th interstitial cellular texture of the muscle b( comes still further distended by serous infil tration, the effect of inflammation. The mu, cular fibre investing the broken ends of th bone, thus distended and swollen, can u: longer be drawn into a straight line, and for: time remains shortened ; thus offering an ev dent obstruction to the rc-adjustment of tl fractured bone. “ The muscle, thus shortened by mechanic, distension, and irritated to contract, by tl injury it has sustained, acts upon the lowi portion of bone, as being the more moveable but tlie upper jiart of the shaft is soon force out of a straight lino, by the lower uortio obeying the contraction of the muscle; ai it takes a backward or forward, an imvard outward direction, according to the line of tl' fracture. The upper portion, being thus eh placed, is regarded as that on which tl<