FRACTURE. 31 during tlio wliolc course of tlie consolidation, but nutrition in the end becomes active in pi'oportion to the new wants of this part, and that which was once on the outside being involved in definitive callus, may have little or nothing to strain it or stimulate its nutri- tion, and in that case it will tend to waste away. In the recent active reparation of fracture in growing bones, the alteration of cancellated tissue may be distinctly seen. I think I have the means of demonstrating thickening of fibres, and the formation of little grains and points—bone upon bone—in different degrees, but I cannot concur with those who describe a solid plug in the canal of the bone. The foundation of the present theory of ossification was no doubt held by Haller, and Dethleef, and Sir A. Cooper ; indeed figs. a.b, and c, 17, are from results of old, and, I believe, unpublished experiments of Sir A. Cooper; and the pieces referred to were employed by Dr. Hodgkin in his pathological lectures at Guy’s hospital to illustrate similar views. Miiller also advocates the principle that bone only forms bone. The objections that are brought forward by some are too indistinct and feeble, and by no means corro- borated by common facts, although their state- ments may possibly involve matters that re- main to be duly connected to the general doctrine herein advanced. Fig. 20. Hunter observes, “ The ossific sub- stance is first depo- sited at the extre- mity of the bones themselves, and then extends to the cal- lus ; at the same time, several points in the callus are form- ing ossific matter. Young people seem to have a greater disposition to form ossific matter than old, but there is a difference even in those of the same age. This new sub- stance is similar to the original bone, and on this account probably is stronger than that from gra- nulation ; however, it is not so durable f lew of a recent fracture of the humerus, in ruhich unnt/ incrustation has commenced, preparatory to sur- roundiny the hroken ends more completelu, and finally umlinr/the two. as the original bones are. This process must necessarily he more tedious than in the soft parts, in consequence of the second process which is required ; sometimes no union takes place for a length of time after the accident, and the variety of callus is great k” The above assertion, that ossification com- mences by several independent points in the callus, though favoured by many, requires new proof, and also that some deceptive circum- cumstances should be taken into consideration. The excessive activity of reparation in young bones, the great excitement of repeated mo- tions in the broken limbs of animals, and irre- gularities of the organization of what is called callus, necessarily induces diverging lines and layers of new bone more easily in some direc- tions than in others, and these vital crystalli- zations (so to speak) must appear isolated in sections, and very readily become detached in every mode of examination. In examining the preparations of a distin- guished investigator of the process of bony reunion, I found that all the discrepancies as to the order of time were explicable by the fact, that when the process seemed unduly advanced, it was evident that the bones were young, and, on the contrary, the tardy repa- rative actions were manifestly in the bones of the oldest animals, Mr. Hunter, in stating the different de- grees of activity in repairing bone manifested in different ages and by different constituti- ons, points to a material source of discrepancy amongst authors ; and when the various de- grees of the tendency to bony atrophy or absorption which other constitutions evince are taken into the account, we may do still more towards reconciling the different state- ments of investigators. In the third fasciculus of drawings from the Army Medical Museum, at Chatham (PI. IX. fig. 5), are represented “ parietal bones, from which a large portion of the entire thickness has exfoliated. The deficiency is filled up with membranous matter; and there has been an attempt at reparation by the formation of small osseous plates in the membrane, quite detached from the old bone. This drawing illustrates the formation of new bone at a dis- tance from the old bone,—a fact at variance with the opinion of Haller and Dethleef.” Now, the fact here assumed cannot be said to bo proved. It is not intended to deny that the assumption may by possibility and in rare instances be true, but it will be evi- dent that inflammation must have surrounded the portion which was about to become necrotic, and that new bone may have been • It IB true that when a false joint siiccccds fracture, the hroken ends may not oven he closed up, or that they may he very thickly coated with hone. 'J’hc case of deficiency may he nttrihuted to diathesis and ah- senco of attritions, while the excessive ossification is to he imputed to a prevalence of bone in the system, and to free pressure of the broken ends against each other. Even witliont pressure, if a strong ligamen- tous union is established, the tension which may bo caused by exerting the limb will excite the nutri- tion of the bony surfaces into which the ligament is inserted, as in ligamentous ankylosis. I