Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammaliu. 42 Some notice of these peculiarities must necessarily be introduced, as they occur in the successive grades. Ac- cording to the most remarkable varieties of safety-valve for- mation, the Mammalia may be arranged in four separate, but successive series. Perhaps the animals with divided ven- tricles, or bifid hearts, should form a fifth series. First Series.—I have said, that the columns of distention may be inserted into the solid wall*, more or less remote from the moderator hand, whose office here appears to be of little consequence; and the band is therefore very slight, or it merges almost imperceptibly into the union of the two walls anteriorly. With the above arrangement, as experi- ment will shew, the valve does not always act closely, unless the ventricle be in some degree contracted; for the natural distention, quite independent of any force in experiment, may slightly enlarge the tricuspid foramen, and thus disturb the valve, chiefly by reason of the scantiness of its curtains \ but there is no displacement of the columns of distention. The safety-valve action is at its lowest point, though not, I presume, totally obviated; so that the general terms which have been employed may still apply, but at their lowest value. This arrangement I have found to belong to most rodent, canine, and marsupial animals, and likewise to some others allied to them; but even this is varied so gradually, as to present a succession of stages, inclining to the more distinct form of a safety-valve adjustment. I have selected one form; which may serve to characterize the series, and at the same time assist to explain its vari- ations : it is from the hare f. In the hearts of this series, the columns of distention are usually more than two, and often as many as four, in number; and they increase in size from behind, forwards; the poste- rior being comparatively insignificant. It is the anterior, or larger one, whose variations are chiefly remarkable J. The valve here, and in many hearts of the succeeding * As column 1, in Diagr. 1. PI. 2. f See Fig. 1. PI- 2. with its description. + A still more anterior attachment of one cord can scarcely be considered a column. See Fig. 1. PI. 2.