66 Mr. King on the Safely- Valve in Birds. succession of forms in which these characters are modified*. The Grebes possess them in a decidedly less marked degree. The valve of the cormorant may be probably less close than that of the Grebes : the breadth of its attachment of dis- tention links it in resemblance with others of which the swan has seemed (hitherto) to afford the most remarkable type. These, with a moderately powerful and capacious ventricle, have the two crescents united almost at an obtuse angle, or, as they might be described, forming nearly a continuous crescentic line, in opposition to a solid wall of some con- vexity. The broad attachment of distention which in the goose and cormorant may be found divided into three or four cords is a pretty manifest means of displacement and reflux, which, I imagine, must be very considerable in these birds. I am tempted to remark here, that, among the varieties of birds, the general properties of the crescentic valves, but especially of the attachment of distention, are considerably modified, and in a manner which does not merely depend on or affect the strength of the valve. This has enforced upon me the opinion suggested when describing the safety-valve of the mammalia; namely, that we may trace at one time a safety-valve that is very susceptible of acting; and at another, one less delicate, but more extensive in its function. In the Grallatoriae, it would seem likely, that, with a con- siderable share of the elements of a safety-valve, material differences may exist with regard to the proportions pos- sessed by particular genera, and even different species. In determining these, sources of fallacy and difficulty must in- trude themselves, and in a very discouraging manner; as, for example, the parts in one instance will be found con- tracted, diminished in extent, thick and firm; or they may be in exactly an opposite condition. Notwithstanding this, a careful examination will assist to establish certain pro- minent features of distinction. The formation of the valve in the Stanley crane, as I have met with it, might alone convince * Not more modified, however, than are the habits of the species as relates to diet, flight, swimming, &c.; and a like reflection should be con- nected with other orders.