in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 11 tlie superior cava, before that of the inferior half of the body; a circumstance which is deserving of some attention. The Effects of Compression by Muscular Action, 8fc.—It is very remarkable with how great force the contents of the veins may be driven inwards to the heart by the rapid movements of the body ; the varying pressure of muscles and integuments acting on the venous tubes, with the assistance of their valves, to hurry on the current of the blood. One sustained effort of the body may obstruct and distend many particular veins; but the quickly-repeated pressure of muscles and skin, &c., as in the free motions of the limbs, operating upon all the veins of a part in succes- sion, must necessarily propel all their blood towards the heart very speedily. Let any one with well-developed veins take an opportunity, in a state of repletion, when the super- ficial veins are become turgid, to make a few general and hasty movements of the body, and all turgescence will disappear at once. On standing, after dinner, the veins of the leg swell freely; but a few steps, performed with com- plete flexions and extensions of the joints, instantly empty every vessel. The internal congestions which follow these exertions are felt to be in the chest, and have been expe- rienced by every one. The Effect of Repletion.—It would be out of place here to dilate upon the circumstances of general venous repletions. The rapidity with which fluids and chyle are occasionally poured into the veins in large quantities is well established. In experiments, fluids have been absorbed in great abundance from the stomach; and, at the same time, the circulating system, including the spleen, has become distended. It is well known how inordinately some persons drink, and how quickly the fulness of the vessels follows: indeed, the acce- lerated secretions are the best proofs of the progress of absorption. That many quarts are often thus absorbed in a few hours is as certain as that the fluids are not evacuated by the bowels. The turgid surface and dilated veins, manifest after a full meal, will sufficiently testify the copious influx of chyle and fluids into the circulation; not to mention the state of the heart and lungs, or that of the arteries and secerning organs.