U5 FRACTURE. ' of the College of Surgeons. The peculiarities ' of the part,and the want ofjudicious treatment, ■ seem the only necessary explanation of the oc- I currences; and I conceive that very little more I than a good coaptation well maintained would i have sufficed to produce ossific reunion. Fig. 309 may stand as the representative of i: a numerous set of cases which appear to con- /I tradict the above statement. The head ot ji the thigh-bone, being detached, except that 0 more or less of periosteal bands connects it H with the shaft, and remaining without any I. useful repair, is very common, but is a speci- I fic case, and without any parallel to those now ii under consideration. It is very rare that the changes deserve the appellation of a false- i| joint, and of course they never admit of cura- 1 tive attempts. In the case where little intervenes betw'een . the disjoined fragments, apposition and perios- titis are necessary to reunion; where solid . ligament separates the fragments, its removal, as by absorption, must precede the coapta- , tion; and where a synovial cell intervenes, I the fragments rubbing against each other, it will be requisite that active organization on I a point of one fragment shall unite with the : like on the opposite piece, and this is almost li tantamount to the obliteration of the cavity r by vascular substance. In every case, next to I coaptation, the action I’equired is, ossific in- I flammation, on each coapted part. The sim- •; plest means of treatment the case will admit of, are of course the best. There are cases I in which the constitution seems incapable of the specific action of ossification ; and there ; are others in which the probable difficulty of II obtaining a cure, ought to preclude the at- [ tempt. 1 The reader may find especial information on the subject of false joints in Fabricius Hildunus, Observ. Cliinirg. cent. iii. obs. 91. Salzmann^ De Articula- tionibus qua; Ossium Frae.turis superveniunt. Argent. 1718. Job a Meckren, Observ. Med.-Chirurg. cap. Ixxi. While, Cases in Surgery. Loud. 1770. Laroche, Diss. sur un moyen de guerir Ics Fausscs Articula- tions. Paris, an xiii. rhysic. Medical Itepository, vol. i. New York, 1(104. 'lioiix, De la Resection dcs jKirties d’Os m.aladcs. Paris, 1012. lFaj-<7rop, Mcdico- Chirurgical Transactions, vol. v. p. 358. Lanqenbtck, Ncue IJibliotck fiir die Chinirgie und 0])hthal. vol. i. p. 81. 0}>jicnheim, Ueber die Jlehandlung der falsdien Gclcnke, in Rust’s Mag.azine, vol. x.wii, p. 203. Sanson, Dictioimiiirc de Med. ct de (Jliiriirg. Pra- tiques, t. iii. p. 491. Marx et 1‘aillard, .Journal Ilebd. t. xii. p. 97. ChHius, Traite do Chirurgic. ' Translated into Frcncli by I’igne, with notes. Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations and h'ractures, (in Ajipcn- dix,) edited by Pransby B. Cooper. 1842; and Dr. Norris, as already quoted, wliose work almost pre- cludes tlie want of any reference to his predecessors. DIASTASIS, on SEPAnATION, OF EI'IPIIYSES. lo conclude the general observations on fracture, I have now only to make a few remarks on the^ subject of the separation of the epiphyses of bones. These accidents, pe- culiar to early life, are, as I have observed J aliove, different from fracture, as they in- volve no rujifure ot the osseous tissue ; yet, ' since the same principles of treatment ajqily to them as to fractures, it may naturally be supposed of importance to consider one set of cases with the other. The subject of these disruptions is far from being devoid of practical interest, since the surgeon, whose attention has not been parti- cularly directed to the nature of these acci- dents, is liable either to overlook their occur- rence, on account of the absence of crepitus, or the difficulty of detecting it; or to con- found the cases with dislocations, on account of the proximity of the seat of the injury to the joints. It is only recently that the attention of the profession has been espe- cially invited to this kind of injury. For the observations I shall make on it I am princi- pally indebted to the memoir of M. Rognetta, in the Gazette Medicale, 1834. The simple separation of epiphyses from the bones to which they belong, may take place at any time previous to that at which the epiphj'ses become secured by osseous tissue, or, in other w'ords, become apophyses. The period of life at which the consolidations take place varies considerably in different bones, and in different individuals. In general, the union between epiphyses and the shaft is completed at the age of puberty, when the bones cease to acquire length. Sometimes, however, the union is not perfect till a considerably later period, a thin layer of cartilage having been, in several cases, found still existing between the shaft and epiphysis at twenty-five years of age. The separation by violence of any part of a bone originally distinct, before it has become soldered by bone, is plainly an accident of the class to which I at present especially seek to direct attention. It is obvious, that violence may be so directed as to separate the parts of any bone, w'hile in the condition which I have described. There are, however, but few of them in which we have evidence of such an accident having actually occurred. The sca- pula consists originally of six or seven sepa- rate pieces ; one for the glenoid cavity ; one for the point of the coracoid process; one for the superior surface and extremity of the acromion ; one for the posterior margin of the bone ; one for the posterior edge of the sjune ; one for the body of the bone, and, sometimes, one for its inferior angle ; and of these, several are a good deal exposed to such injuries as might detach them from the rest; yet I am not aware of any w'ell-authcnticated case of this accident to which I can refer. That the accident occurs, I do not doubt. Cases are recorded, of separation of the condyles of the occipital bone, of rupture of the atlas into two lateral halves, and of the odontoid process from tlic vertebra dentala. It need hardly bo said, that such cases would be very difficult to diagnose iiositivcly, and that the treatment of them should include every precaution to prevent movement of the head on the spine. I have seen a separation of the odontoid process of the deulata vertebra in an adult.