91 FRACTURE. fragments, of course directing the instrument so as to avoid wounding any large vessel or nerve. The limb is then to be put up in the same manner as a recent fracture. This me- thod often succeeds. When it fails, Professor Gibson, of Philadelphia, who first announced the American practice in Europe, considers the failure as usually attributable to the too early removal of the seton. “ In general, says Dr. Gibson, “ when the seton fails to procure reunion, there is reason to believe that it has not been continued a sufficient length of time. In 1806, I was present at an operation performed by the late Dr. _Phy- sick, upon the humerus of a woman i-esiding at Baltimore ; for some trivial reason, the physician under whose care the patient was left, removed the seton in two or three weeks, and no benefit of course resulted.” On the other hand, “ within the last seven years. Dr. Physick passed a seton between the ends of a disunited lower jaw, and the patient returned home. In a little time his attending physi- cian became anxious to remove the cord, un- der an idea that no union would take place ; the patient, however, had promised Dr. Phy- sick before his departure that no one except himself should take it out. It was therefore continued a few weeks longer, and, in the meantime, perfect bony re-union was estab- lished k” Sometimes a complete consolida- tion is brought about by the seton in ten or twelve weeks; often it requires a mueh longer time. Professor Gibson is of opinion, that four or five, and sometimes even twelve months should be allowed to elapse, before the seton is removed in despair of its ultimately effecting the consolidation of the fragments. For many years past, some of the surgeons of the Meath Hospital have adopted a modifica- tion of Dr. Physick’s method, which consists in passing the seton along, instead of through, the fibrous tissue uniting the fragments, and which they think less liable than Dr. Phy- sick’s method to excite dangerous inflamma- tion. Within the last few years, Mr. Rynd has operated according to this modification in that hospital with success, in several cases; of which he means shortly to lay an account before the profession. Many years ago I witnessed the treatment in the Richmond Hospital, by Mr. Carmi- chael, of a case of false joint in the hume- rus, by the seton. A few weeks after its introduction, the patient had a severe attack of erysipelas of the arm, which spread to the body and very nearly caused his death. The seton was withdrawn, and the treatment abandoned. The late Dr. M'Dowel treated a case of ununited fracture of the upper part of the femur with the seton, with conqilctc success. The man lives in the neighbour- hood of the hos[)ital, and may be now seen walking about with good use of the limb. ‘ Gibson, Institutes and Practice of Surgery, p. 311. Fig. 41. Fig. 313 rcjn'csents a false joint of the ulna just ahova the insertion of the pronator (juadratus. There has been but little defect of bony formation on the two ends of this bone, and the radius, which has been frac- tured in a situation nearly pccrcdlel, is become firmly united. The reunion of the broken ulna consists of a thin strong layer of solid ligamentous jd>res. It need scarcely he said that a seton passed through this liga- mentous matter woidd have had great infiuence in de- stroying the intermediate soft tisstie at the penetrated point, and have been very conducive, in all proba- bility, to ossific infiammation at the same spot. “ The seton is especially suited to those cases of preternatural joint which occur in the upper extremities, inferior maxilla, and clavicle, where the fragments can be placed in opposition. In the femur it has often failed ; Dr. Physick has tried it in three cases of artificial joint in this bone, without satis- factory results. The experience of Sir B. Brodie, as we have seen, is to the same eft’ect. The cause of failure in these cases is pro- bably owing to its inadequacy in the larger bones to excite a degree of inflammation suf- ficient to give rise to ossific action. One of the cases in which the seton failed in the hands of Dr. Physick, was that of an adult male who was admitted into the Pennsylvania Hospital, Fob. 17th, 1810, with an artificial joint of the femur following an oblique frac- ture of the bone just below the trochanter major. His accident had hujqiened eight months previously. On the 28th an incision down to the bone was made over the seat of the fracture, and a seton introduced. On the fourth day, fever and retention of urine fol- lowed, but soon disappeared. On the 20th