HD FRACTURE. there is sometimes a distinct depression, or excessive deformity ; and sometimes the frac- tured extremities project beneath, or even through, the skin ; there is always pain when the part is moved ; the power of pronation and supination is lost; the fore-arm is gene- rally semiflexed. The fracture near to the wrist-joint, how- ever, so nearly resembles the appearances of dblocation of that part, as to deserve a distinct mention here ; but the dislocation is so rare, that Dupuytren, through his whole practice, never once met with a single case. In frac- tures, the part is more moveable ; there is a crepitus ; and a little attention to discover whether the styloid processes are above or below the deformity, will distinguish the cases. Again, we must see, that in fractures, when the hand is moved, the styloid processes will accompany that motion ; but when the hand is moved in dislocation without fracture, the processes of the radius and ulna cannot alter their situation. Longitudinal displacement or shortening, seldom happens but to a small extent; the nature of the interosseous ligament, and the connexions of the muscles with it and with the bones, seem to impede displacement, which the long tendons, with yielding points of insertion, are little calculated to increase. Angular displacement may occur either for- ward or backward, but the violence which produces the fracture is its principal cause, and not the muscular contraction. In trans- verse displacement, the upper portion of one bone approaches the lower fragment of the other; or, all the ends fall together, to the diminution, or even obliteration, of the inter- osseous ligament about the seat of fracture, ]>roducing evident disfigurement of the limb. For the reduction of the fracture of both bones, the fore-arm is to be flexed to a right angle with the arm, the wrist and fingers slightly flexed, and tlie hand placed between ])ronation and supination—the palm towards the breast; the humerus being then fixed by an assistant, extension of the fractured part is made by means of the fingers of the patient; the surgeon during the time attending to the restoration of the parts, and endeavouring to direct the soft part into the interosseous space, by gentle graduated pressure on the anterior and posterior sides of the arm. The fragments being adjusted, the position just indicated is to be maintained, by a padded splint, on the back and front of tlic arm and hand. FUACTUltES OF THE BONES OF THE WHIST AND FINGERS. The carpal bones may be broken liy in- direct violence, in connexion with luxations of the jiart (see the article Luxations) ; or direct violence may crush them. Tlicrc may be extensive comminution, even though the skin remain entire. When with open frac- ture, the integuments arc crushed and bruised, instead of lieing lacerated, lliere is the least hope of reparative action; which is an im- portant consideration with reference to ampu- tation, Sometimes very little trace of ex- ternal injury attends these fractures. Gentle forces may be used to replace bones. The palm and fore-arm are to rest on an easy splint, covered by any necessary dressing; and great care will be required to moderate fever, to regulate inflammation, (much advantage being derived from raising the hand above the level of the body,) to evacuate matter early, and prevent its burrowing. Fractures of the metacarpus and fingers occur from crushing violence, from smart blows, as of a stick, and from undue strain, as over extension. Falling on the tip of a finger would seem capable of breaking even a meta- carpal bone. If the soft parts be not severely disorganized, we have still to fear that thick- ening about the tendons may leave only rigid deformity of one or more fingers, which is in many respects worse than their loss. Uncom- plicated fracture near the middle of a meta- carpal bone is not very rare; the inferior broken end inclines forwards, the shortening is very inconsiderable, unless more than one bone be broken. A splint with a compress in the palm, or a globnlar cushion on which to flex and bind the fingers, are the usual means of treatment. The fore-finger is more liable to fracture than the rest; and the radical phalanges are oftener broken than those beyond. The pha- langes of the thumb are rather prone to be luxated than fractured. If these fractures be simple, and not open, they are usually neiu* the middle of the bone, and easily detected ; but if near the extremities, their diagnosis is more difficult. The state of repose requires the fingers to be slightly flexed, and also the wrist and arm. Some persons treat simple fraeture of the phalanges with little straight splints, as of pasteboard ; others place a pad in the palm, and secure the finger over it. I prefer gene- rally a straight splint of wood, padded to give some flexion to the finger. Fracture of the bones of the thumb arc not fo be treated in the extended position, but pasteboard is to be moulded to the dorsum, and along the front of the thumb, in the flexed attitude of rest. Supination of the wrist relaxes the extensors of the thumb, but the wrist must bo rather flexed. Many of the injuries of the hand can have no better termination than by amputation. Parts injured beyond restoration, or the hope of useful restoration, are generally to be re- moved ; but the more the surgeon seems to be called upon to take away, the more it is important to save some part; and possibly the amputation of one part, or set of jiarts, may facilitate the rejmir of another. See the article Amputation. The knowledge of constitution and diathesis is here of great use ; and a dmi attention to sucli cases is one good means of attaining it.