Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. 52 anterior union of the two walls. In the length of its column, and the remoteness of its moderator hand, the camel would appear to stand about midway between the rein-deer and the lama; at least, if I may judge from a single, and not a very favourable specimen*. According to its valvular formation, the seal requires a place among the fourth series of the Mammalia. It has a moderator hand of rather less efficiency than that of the lama, but its compound column of distention may be said to be triple. It is large, irregular, much divided, furnished with many cords, short, and based upon a thin and cellular wall. The posterior fixed cords possess a considerably muscular column. The cavity admits of much extension. This animal has some slight tendency to a division of the ventricles in the form of a bifid apex; and seems to be allied by this, as well as by its habits, to those warm-blooded and respiring aquatic animals, in whom the separation of the ventricles is more distinct, as in the porpoise, and still more in certain other cetacea. Now we may fairly infer, that the object of a bifid heart, in these animals which remain long under water, is one of some unportance (See Fig. 4. PI. 2. and Diagr. 7). The following are some of the facts, in con- nection with the arrangement which is peculiar to them. The usual apparatus of distention, and the yielding wall, are con- structed after a plan wliich has been formerly described in the account of the third series. A great extent of the wall being thin and spongy, the common columns of distention are very similar, in number, site, and force, to those of. the human heart: probably, however, the facility and extent of displace- ment are greater in the present case. We have now to add, that the yielding wall is prolonged to the point of bifurcation, and includes the apex of the ventricle;—that the solid wall, as it has hitherto been called, with respect to the right ven- tricle, is here becoming, or giving place to, a thin and yielding wall. Moreover, the inner (left) portion of the * The right ventricle of the giraffe possesses a valve of a very simple tricuspid form. The single column of distention is of little width, conical, and somewhat lengthened. Its cords seem few, and little scattered on the summit. The moderator band, long, and of inconsiderable thickness, is placed nearer the single column than in the lama and cuincl. One posterior fi.\ed column is considerable.