Mr. King on Disorders ivhich are Variable ; 12 5. Metastasis, we should include the possibility of a too hasty process of cure; as of a large ulcer by efficient dressings &c.; or as of inflammation by cold. These last cases seem to me to add strong reflections* to the mutual illustration which the several cases adduced afford. However these opinions may seem strained or over-refined, I shall not here consider it my province, in order to justify myself, to expatiate at length upon the most important cor- roboration of their value; namely, the causes and the remedies of these most common forms of disease. The exposition of the laws which belong to constitution and to the periodicity of diseases should first be attempted; but I shall at present confine myself to a few remarks, which may assist to explain the main object of the views I have been dwelling on. The observer will pretty readily determine for himself how far he can avail himself of the distinction advocated: yet I would once again earnestly ask. Is it nothing to see at a glance that the patient has a variable affection—a mani- fest, nay, even obstinate tendency to get well ? Is it not a most impressive observation, when perhaps he is on the verge of destruction, that but for some simple, unknown, or undiscoverable causes of retrogression, there is reason to know the disease is ready to disappear. Who shall venture to assert that metastasis is not from cold, or a similarly avoidable cause, acting perhaps even in the moment of convalescence ? Who will say that relapse in fevers or acute phlegmasiae is not to be prevented by more studious attention to deranging influences ? Is not he but an indifferent observer, who does not con- * Indeed, it must be confessed, that without a continual reference to the idea of new causes—sometimes from within, sometimes from without, and not seldom both from within and from without—the records of medical treatment, and of the progress of diseases, are fallacious, almost without hope. Practical works almost always strike me as deficient here, and so far unavailable. Surely it is plain that the reader should not be left to discover all the hourly distinctions between the diseases and the relapse, and between the power of remedies and tlie powers of nature; that is to say, if it be true that diseases tend to subside of tliemselvcs, and accidental relapses (so to speak) are indeed common.