in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 29 in this case there was some refluent stream. In the second case, however, under precisely similar circumstances, I ob- tained, at last, an almost perfect valvular action: though even this could not be maintained for half a minute without re- nevving the injection, as it continually gave out a little stream, which did not exceed that of the least accurate ad- justment of some one or two mitral valves on which I have experimented, regarding them as healthy. This, to me, was an unprecedented instance of true val- vular action in the right side of the human heart; though so feeble was it, that the slightest pressure of the finger was sufficient to displace the curtains. Although I believe what has been described to be strictly true, I am inclined to suppose that, at a certain point of the natural ventricular systole, the action of the tricuspid valve is very nearly complete. On the other hand, I am convinced that, in all cases in which the right ventricle is, in any ma- terial degree, temporarily distended or permanently dilated, the heart and lungs are relieved by a considerable reflux of the ventricle’s contents into the auricle and systemic veins. It is highly deserving of notice, also, that the more accurate closure of the mitral valve seems to have a like necessary reference to the safety of the lungs; the least backward cur- rent in the pulmonary veins being strictly obviated. A very limited acquaintance with disease must set aside all uncertainty with regard to the fatal mischiefs which follow the imperfect operation of the mitral valve. I have ventured to regard the apparatus, which regulates the right auriculo-ventricular aperture of the heart, as a safety-valve, rather than a simple valve; or more properly, as both the one and the other, on diflPerent occasions. Of course, it is impossible to estimate the precise relation and quanti- ties of these two different functions. It may be imagined that the real proportion of reflux is exaggerated in the preceding exposition; and it must certainly vary much in different human hearts, according to their state of contrac- tion, and still more in the hearts of different species of animals ; but whereas a few simple examinations and expe- riments will suffice to establish the conviction of the physio- logist for or against the principle of a safety-valve action, K 2