157 FRACTURE. ff, passed round the limb over the splints and the ap- paratus. “ With respect to the position, the limb thus fixed should be placed ilnth the apparatus resting upon the heel; the two planes should be connected, as seen in the wood-cut, by means of the steel bar, which forms part of the apparatus for fractures of the thigh, described page 323, and the whole steadied by tapes attached to the foot-board, and passing off from thence to the sides of die foot of the bed. Surgical applications may be made by unbuckling the circular leg-strap, and throwing back the side-splints. “ When the inflammation is subdued.—Some strips of soap-plaster, each about an inch and a half wide, should be applied with very moderate tightness round the limb, and sufiiciently close ; they should pass from the ankle to a considerable distance above the frac- ture. The ends should be crossed on the sides or front of the leg, and cut off, so as to be easily turned back, when it is necessary to observe the state of the skin. Some strips also, or a short roller, should be passed round the foot to prevent cedematous swelling in that part. When this is done, and the side-flints re-applied, the shin-splint should be properly adjusted, and the whole leg-part of the apparatus supported by three circular straps and buckles. “ The cross bar may be now removed, and the appara- tus furnished with a sling or thong of leather fixed to the lower end of ike leg-part of the apparatus; by means of this t%e limb may be moved passively at pleasure; the patient may recline upon a sofa, or rest his leg upon the seat of a chair. He may walk, too, with the assistance of crutches, passing in this ease the sling over the neck, as in the ordinary way; the movements of the limb, hoivever, should be always passive, and never by the action of its own muscles. In a fortnight or three weeks' time, according to dr- cumstances, the foot-board should be shifted a little higher up the leg-jnece, to press thefractured ends to- gether, and to hasten their consolidation. “ Oblique Fractures.—In these cases extension must be made in the following manner:—the thigh-piece of the apparatus must first of all be pressed up closely against the back of the thigh, and the foot-board shifted down, so as to make the space between the foot- board and the thiglL-piece longer than the leg; an as- sistant then grasps the foot and ankle in his hands, and makes gentle extension in the natural line of the bone, so as to bring the fractured parts into proper adaptation; when this is done, the surgeon keeps tip the extension by buckling the strap, whic/i is fixed trans- versely to the shoe, round the foot-board. Great care must be taken that the broken extremities unite in the relative position which they naturally occupy; for this purpose auxiliary pads and rollers must be judi- ciously applied, according to the bone affected and the nature of the obliquity It is usual before applying splints, as we have already stated, to employ bandages or adhesive plasters j and the best reason for this practice appears to be, that it is desirable to render the pressure of the more solid ap- paratus as general and equable as possible. So far, therefore, as the reason given is concern- ed, the first applications are important, in proportion as the outer parts are likely to press firmly, or unequally ; but under these circumstances it may be objected that the state of the compressed member may be thus too much concealed ; and that it hinders con- stant watchfulness required to anticipate mis- chievous consequences. Another almost universal rule is to make free use of cooling lotions. These have no effect where pads or thick bandages are placed ; ’ Dr. Cutlers I*r.icLical Ctuide to ftressing, ^c. and elsewhere, again, they may retard repara- tion. When active inflammation is to be feared, they should be made and used eSi- ciently, and even the use of splints should for a while give place to them. The tendon-cutters, among their various extravagant measures, have not as yet, I be- lieve, begun to facilitate the coaptation of fractures; I cannot but think, however, that there are a few cases in which it would be very desirable to take advantage of the divi- sion of a tendon, as of that of the heel, when the only alternative is manifestly a seriously deformed limb. Many fractures, even of both bones, of the leg, are easily retained in good coaptation, and much restraint is not only unnecessary, but pre- judicial ; for the more of freedom that can be allowed, without inducing deformity, the more rapid and solid will be the reparation. (For farther particulars, see Luxations of the Ankle-joint.) The treatment of open fractures of the leg, which are frequent accidents, may call for some exertion of the practitioner’s ingenuity. The injury to the soft parts may be various and extensive, and each particular case will require special adaptations of both dressings and applications. Fig. 68. The annexed simple contrivance of an inter- rupted splint explains its own object, and may serve to illustrate the manner in which other cases must be met. The objections to refined and complicated appa- ratus are generally not to be denied, but I have thought it worth while to present the fol- lowing as a useful ex- ample of the method by which particular dif- ficulties may be sur- mounted. It is for a very similar reason that I would strongly re- commend the young practitioner to make himself theoretically acquainted with a con- siderable variety of the mechanical contri- vances for the treatment of fractures ; not so much with intent to employ them ns to avail himself of the simpler resources which they may indicate to him. “ The apparatus below (fig. 341), consists of a leg and thigh-piece, like the common inclined plane ; the thigh part having a slide to it, to adapt it to diflerent lengths and being fixed by the screw c. The leg part of the apparatus consists of three portions, a, b, c; which admit of being raised or depressed at pleasure, by means of a slide, which is connected to the under part of each, and which passes through a back bar, which con-