FRACTURE. 71 that the four kinds of pseud- arthrosis are but modified results of one cause—the in- jury, or rather the inflam- mation which the injury induces. First, there is a tardy cal- lus, which has but a short du- ration, and which, if less matured, or subjected to mo- tions, or merely to atrophy, assumes a second character, namely, that of a ligamentous cellular tissue. The fact that the formation of new ligament requires the aid of extension is of consider- able practical importance : and the consideration of it ex- plains, in some measure, the occurrence of the ligamentous union of fractures instead of the ossific, and also the diffi- culty of consolidating the for- mer. Ligamentous pseudar- throsis is in itself evidence of deficient contact, orcompres- Fig. 36 represents the result of an experiment hy Sir A. Cooper, which is noio in the Museum at Guy's Hospital. A portion of the radius of a dog was excised; the actions of reparation have led to the effusion of ossific matter on each detached end of hone, without any hut incidental cellular connexion between the two ends. Some pressure and periostitis on the ulna has commenced to unite the loose cut ends of the radius to the adjacent bone. Fig. 37. Adventitious articular cavity aflcr a fracture of the neck of the femur. This figure cMiihits a fradurc partially united hy hands of ligament; the neck of the hone is entirely atrophied, so that the head and shaft are brought into contact, and their broken sur- fices are rendered smooth hy attrition; the capsular ligament is excessively thickened ; and there is a pro- jection formed hy the trnehanter minor, on which the head of the femur rested.—From Mr. B. B. Cooper's edition of Sir A. Cooper's work on Dislocations and Fractures. sion, of the fragments, as well as of undue motion. The interspace admits of a soft organization, which motion converts into ten- don, but pressure, if it e.xisted, at first would obviate the soft growth, or, subsequently, it would induce the absorption of the ligament. The complete formation of ligament, wdie- ther in the re-union of divided bone or ten- don, will probably occupy a period of many weeks, so tardily is the organization of this fibrous tissue effected. It is common to refer the slowness of these changes to the pecu- liarly low vitality of ligamentous tissues ; but w'e may perceive that the method of treat- ment is, in part, concerned in its results. Rest and retraction, and the general and topical means of arresting inflammation, concur but too well with the lacerated injury of a little vascular part in obstructing repair; and the blood, extravasated, seems once more the means of preventing union. The ineised wound of a tendon heals freely under judici- ous treatment,and also some ruptures of bone, which are most analogous to such an injury, as the transverse division of the patella. For the full effects of this kind of reparation the early products of inflammation require to be kept in a state of activity, and it is only by degrees, that a scanty cellular membrane is converted into the solid cord; as if it were by repeated extensions, and consequent in- flammations. Not unfi’equently ligamentous union of divided tendon assumes the charaeter of a cartilaginous mass, but this is still more the specific effect of tensions. Sometimes the union may ultimately present a bony nucleus —a pisiform bone—perhaps from the infiltra- tion of a portion of extravascular solid, or from the earthy degeneration peculiar to fibrous tissue in certain constitutions. It must appear, also, that in the formation of an abnormal ligamentous joint, some stimulus to ossific union is at first defective, namely, con- tact of the bones, or local excitement, or the necessary constitutional disposition, and that the existence of ligamentous union, while it prevents contact and ossific inflammation, is it- self rendered permanent by continued motion. In the first rank of cases of the second class, should be placed the ligamentous union whieh commonly follows some frac- tures of the patella, olecranon, and calcis; and occasionally, also, of the head of the femur, the humeral condyles, and the coronoid pro- cess of the lower jaw and ulna ; but these are not usually called false joints, and, excepting for incidental illustration, the present expo- sition will be confined to the affection of the long bones. It is useful, however, to remark, that the last named instances of ligamentous union are preceded by callus, and arc not without some new ossification, and that they illustrate, that for the full development of ligamentous fibre, motion and tension are