34 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function was very incomplete in all stages of the injection. The cavity of tlie right ventricle was of moderate extent. The wall was solid, and, in the first evident degree, hypertrophic. There were two considerable columns of distention; both rather short. The first had two limited moderator hands; and the second gave off, from near the base, an oblique band towards the apex of the solid wall. The mitral valve acted with much power and accuracy. It is very difficult to suppose, that with less extent of the right ventricle the tricuspid curtains would not have closed better in this case. The chief morbid circumstances were—Renal anasarca —large spleen—indurated liver—slight pulmonary conges- tion—sudden death, probably from the tumefaction of the glottis. Henry P , aged 51, ill fifteen weeks : examined forty- eight hours after death. The right ventricle contained a very moderate quantity of blood, fibrinous, and firmly coagulated*. The cavity was perhaps somewhat contracted, though by no means small: its parietes were thick. The tricuspid valve admitted rather a considerable regurgitation. There was one large and almost triple column of distention, with a very length- ened moderator band; and there was a smaller column of distention attached near the septum. Some parts of the edges of the tricuspid valve were opaque and thickened, without being indurated or contracted. The left ventricle was strong, and the arteries diseased. The affections which produced death were — Urinary obstructions, and inflammations—phthisis, and arachnitis. The spleen and liver were disordered. The nicest adaptation of these valves can only be under- stood by the observation of them in experiment; but to me, it seems very natural that, in this case, the vital action of the parts might liave been sufficient to render the adjustment of the curtains more accurate, if not close or firm. * The free opening in the auricle readily admits of the removal of these portions of Hbrin.