Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. 9 animal, I would refer to a statement which I formerly made, to excuse the use of the term in the case of animals that may seem to have none of the function; namely, I shewed that the right auriculo-ventricular valve acted hut feebly or im- perfectly in all the mammalia; and I maintained the probabi- lity, that, in the closest form of the valve, with the exertion of the animal, the yielding of the annulus and the thin wall of the venti'icle would still induce some safety-valve action, when most needed. This argument also favours the opinion, that the true safety-valves must have a free and copious action. Another reflection seems fairly to connect itself with this. As a safety-valve will require certain correlative adapta- tions—in the veins, for instance,—so, regardless of external circumstances, we may expect the safety-valve to vary some- what, in correspondence only with a variation of some in- ternal part or state. Surely, also, incidental or acquired habits will augment or diminish the ordinary range or degree of safety-valve, if they only affect the dimension and power of the right ventricle. Scanty and nutritious food will induce a limited and firm circulation, as well as an easy respiration, &c.: the ventricles will be small, and their action complete;—and the reverse will obtain. The well-fed gentleman and the trained prize-fighter present a forcible contrast in this matter. The poor man’s dog and the pampered creature in the paid our do the same: and I conclude that their hearts participate in the difference; or, where they do not, disease begins. Lastly, I think that birds are not without circumstances closely parallel to all that we have been considering. It is not to he thought that the over-distended eagle, which is scarcely able to rise thirty feet from its carrion prey, would not be able to fly away with a much larger mass than it has devoured. The obscene birds, as I have observed them, are at times almost paralyzed with repletion; while at other times their power and agility are justly the proverbial type of youth and vigour. I would attribute tlie oppression almost exclusively to vascular fulness and pressure *. * With reference to habit and the safety-valve, there is still, in comparative anatomy, a new field of observation in the venous and auricular valves. Tlie last, in birds and some mammalia, arc very rcp;ular and complete structures. 'J’ho