150 FRACTURE. timisverse portions of articular cartilage, of tvhich the middle seemed also a new formation, filing up a line of angular depression, and flattened by contact with the condyles. The transverse hands or portions of surface immediately above a?id below this last, seemed to consist of original articular cartilage tvhich could no longer come in contact with the con- dyles. Fig. 64. Fig. 336 shoivs a vertical section of the same part. There was no appearance of interruption of the cam celli; but the inequalities of the cartilage, and the breaking up of me bony shell beneath it in severed places, as well as the definite characters of repair in the section of the anterior surface, were very distinct. vocal instances which have been published; and from the examination of specimens in various museums. On this point we have the authority of Boyer, Sir Charles Bell, J. Wil- son, (formerly professor of the Royal College of Surgeons,) and of Baron Larrey. There are examples of the fact in the museums of Dr. Hunter at Glasgow, of the London Uni- versity, and of Guy’s Hospital. The last was described by myself in the Guys Hospital reports. Figs. 334, 5, and 6 will sufficiently explain the circumstances of the case here alluded to. . , u The treatment of longitudinal or perpendi- cular fracture of the patella is described to consist, first, in the use of cold lotion, and leeches, if necessary; and, of course, the more contusion, the more care is requisite to pre- vent synovitis : in this case also there is little chance of preventing ossific union by local applications. The second part of the treat- ment consists ill the apiilication of a stiaiglit back-splint, rollers, and a knee-cap. these are chiefly precautionary iiicasiires. Mraps of plaster and a roller about the knee, and slight but varying degrees of flexion will pro- bably be most easy to the patient, if he can be trusted. Within three weeks he may dis- pense with these restraints, and proceed ten- tatively to move about. Open or compound fracture of the patella almost necessarily opens the knee joint, the largest synovial cavity of the body; and the anticipation of disorganization often leads the surgeon to adopt immediate amputation in these injuries. On the whole, however, it may be said, that modern views of constitu- tion and general treatment, are tending stead- ily towards the diminution of these opera- tions, and the preservation of limbs which formerly would have been removed. An incised wound of the integuments, or one of small extent and but little contused, with a simple division of the patella, may admit of the attempt to save the limb ; but, most of all, a youthful and healthful constitution, and good habits, are the sanctions for delaying amputa- tion. Mr. S. Cooper says : “ I saw a case in St. Bartholomew’s hospital, in the year 1820, un- der Mr. Vincent, where the patella was broken to pieces, and the opening so extensive, that the fingers readily passed into the joint; yet, after a tedious confinement, the formation of abscesses, and the separation of several frag- ments of bone, the patient recovered with a stiff joint. I saw another case of bad com- pound fracture of the patella in St. Bartholo- mew’s hospital, where it had been about a month. No fragments of bone had then been removed, but a good deal of matter issued daily from the wound, and the patient was in considerable danger of losing his limb, or even his life.” With the treatment proper for fractured patella must be combined the practices en- joined in the articles relating to arthritis, &c. In cases of more threatening character, ampu- tation must not be delayed. The least equi- vocal of these are probably gun-shot wounds. Sir C. Bell, (Operative Surgery,) records a case, in which, after a transverse fracture, the ligamentous union became ultimately con- nected, by a kind of adhesion, with the super- jacent integument; and a repetition of the disunion being produced, the laceration ot the new ligament caused that of the skin, and amputation was judged necessary. ^ , “ Case.—A man was admitted into Guy s Hospital in the year 1796, under Mr. W.. Cooper, surgeon of that hospital, with a com- pound fracture of this bone ; violent inflam- mation followed ; suppuration ensued, with. the highest degree of constitutional UTitation;. and as no opportunity was given for ampu- tation, from the great swelling of the thigh, this man died. The bone is m the museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital, disunited as at the first moment of the accident. , « A man was admitted into the mu- seum of St. Thomas’s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Birch, with a fracture of the patella, and ^