8 hydatid,&c., bone upon bone, as earth abounds in the blood or not, is the rule quoad new bone. Pressures and attrition also guide the degree of activity. There may be too little or too much action, deposit, or absorbtion. Ossific cancer is specific; in the lung, and all parts. Periostitis begins almost as soon as the injury has been inflicted. The figure of the reuniting bone guided by periosteum, tension, &c. (Cyclopaedia of Practical Surgery, “ Fracture,’’ \ppendix.) Open fracture (compound) repairs by the simplest modifications of the above process. Peculiarities as to flat bones ; cancelli, neck of femur, epiphysial arteries, ueck of scapula. (Ibid., and Guy’s Hospital Reports, October, 1844.) The periosteum, original, or derived from granulation, adhesion, or cicatrization, is the chief source of the nutrition and repair of bone ; bone upon bone increasing till the fragments are cemented by new bone, and till motion and strain cease to excite activity. Old bone, inflammation and earth in the blood, are the essentials. Absorption removes that which lacks tension, and what is unduly pressed, or too feebly nourished. (Ut supra). Patella broken across, and united by bone. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, No. 13.) Episternal bones. (Ibid., No. 11.) TENSION : A FUNDAMENTAL OB PEIMART VITAL AGENT, PHYSIOLOGICAL, &C. 62. Tension has to do with the growth, excavation, repair, and wasting of bone—with its form, and that of each cancellus. To it I refer the ligamentous reunion of divided muscle, tendon, or liga- ment, as occasionally of bone. It explains the order of initiative ossifications throughout the foetal body, and that of the consolida- tion of the various epiphyses of the bones (excepting the effects of breadth of union-surface, «&c). It seems equally to affect the tunics of bones, nerves, vessels, ducts, and organs. Fasciae, elastic tissues, and diseases. Varix is undue daily tension, and defective nightly repair. Med. Gaz., April, 1844. Med. Chir. Rev., Oct., 1844.) The decline of tension, or even excessive tension, accounts for isolations of parts of bones. (Prov. Med. Journ., Aug., 184.3.) Calvarian Pits, and Dura Matral Ridges, and fossulm produce Glandulm Pacchioni, with peculiar Tensions. Granulation always minus as to tension. (See Physiological and Pathological Ten- sions, &c., Med. Gaz., July 3, 1846.) 36, Bedford-square, December 1st, 18t6. A, OOUIDINO, PRINTER, 11, SOUTH-STREET, WEST'SaUARE, SOUTUWABK.