with Inferences from the Character of Changeableness. 7 from the gradual obstruction of one or more important functions, or from the general exhaustion which is produced. It may frequently perhaps be referred to the combination of these two causes; or rather, as I believe (after many exami- nations of such cases after death), from a sudden accession of inflammation in a vital organ, as an arachnitis, a pneu- monia, or hydrothorax. Repeated relapses, exposure, and the medical treatment (whether good or bad), may have con- curred to waste the patient: the slightest cause produces the acute attack, and the patient is said to have died of exhaus- tion. There is, doubtless, a period after which no remedy would avail; yet it is a common, a fair, and a profitable re- flection, that certain diseases, sometimes fatal, may he cured or repaired in a different constitution; or, that under more favourable circumstances, even in the same individual, they might have admitted much palliation. All kinds are reme- diable, at certain stages: and, for the most part, experience cannot easily decide that any gwen state is not so. We have seen that the disposition to return is common to many kinde of disease; and we may understand how it hap- pens that ordinary causes of derangement tend to afiect the organ which is most susceptible (which is said to be the weakest). Now here, to obviate the cause, is to cure the disease ; for the available truth is, that these cases preserve the character of reparability, or a strong restorative ten- dency,—a power which does not seem to have been hitherto well explained, with regard to any diseases*. But it is the * That many diseases exert spontaneous curative energy—that they are innately disposed to subside, extraneous influence being removed—is, I conceive, amongst the most general laws of medicine. The proof of this is as wide and clear as the descriptive parts of all nosography; but it is not easy to put it in few words. (Vide First General Laws,'’Sec. ip. 2G.} It is not possible for one to understand the nature of the restorative eflbrts, without a knowledge of the processes which physiologically maintain the balance of health ; and with this knowledge it must be hard for any one to deny that diseases naturally tend to decline. The assertion must he admitted for every hind of curable disease. It shews, too, how all sorts of disorders get well, under all kinds of treatment; not to say, all kinds of mismanagement and neglect. I do not admit that tlie ten- dency is ever merely apparent; still less do I allow that it is absent wlicii not apparent. I believe it to belong, in the most complete degree, to all variable diseases.