22 Mr. King on the Safety- Valve Function curtains are extended by sanguineous pressure, and retained in the position required, whether for closure or for reflux • while the contraction of the columns may compensate, in either case, for the systolic drawing-in of the walls. Yielding of the Tricuspid Fomme/i.—Hypertrophy of the right ventricle, which is doubtless the result of a difiicult circulation, is very frequently accompanied by some dila- tation of the tricuspid foramen, as well as of the cavity. Bouillaud deduces, by actual admeasurements, a mean circumference of the right auriculo-ventricular foramen, equal to 3 in. 10 lines, from three adult healthy hearts; and one of 5 in. 2 lines, from five adult thickened and dilated hearts. Now, it may be impossible strictly to prove that this aperture in the human subject may admit of distention during health; although we find it every now and then morbidly enlarged, and not, as it would appear, from any weakness; for the power of resistance is, on the contrary, rather increased. The contraction of the aperture, how- ever, in concurrence with the general contraction of the ventricle, is shewn plainly enough in those cases in which the heart has been found to diminish its cavities by a de- gree of tonic contraction, when removed a few hours after death* (as hereafter to be related). It will appear, likewise, that simple congestion of the right ventricle is sufficient, in many animals, to dilate this opening. The most simple proof is furnished by some birds. Assuming the circumference of the tricuspid opening to be capable of relaxation under distention and during health, we must consider that the valve will participate in the alte- ration ; but as the yielding will take place almost entirely in the right or feeble margin, the displacement will only affect the curtains attached to this part (namely, the anterior or second, and the right or third), which is a good deal more extensive than that formed by the solid wall. (See Fig. 1. PI. 1; and D I, and D 2, Fig. 2. PI. 1.) Under these circumstances, the term curtain of distention will include still more of the valve, or nearly two-thirds of its circumference. '* I’cijjes 130, 131,137, and 130. See also Expeidnieats on Animals, Part 2.