( 61 ) Pabt III.—of the SAFETY-VALVE IN BIRDS. THE FORM, ANALOGY, AND GRADATIONS OF STRUCTURE, IN THE SAFETY- VALVE OF BIRDS.—THE FUNCTION ILLUSTRATED BY EXPERIMENTS. It seems likely, that the small quantity of circulating fluids natural to birds, together with' their elevated respiratory function, should demand a free and speedy pulmonaiy cir- culation; it is undeniable, that the crescentic valve in their right ventricles is admirably adapted to insure such an action; and I am deeply impressed with the conviction, that the most experienced zootomists will find the greatest difficulty in admitting the opinion I am about to maintain ; yet I do not doubt that it will finally be found a correct and important deduction. The modification of a safety-valve apparatus in the right ventricle of some birds has appeared to me strikingly peculiar, and not less manifest than in many animals, al- though the efiect must be less considerable. For the sake of description, I shall still have occasion to speak of the septum ventriculorum as the solid wall; and likewise to consider the thin outer or right boundary of the ventricle as the yielding wall. (See Pi. 3.) In all birds, the right auriculo-ventricular opening is of a narrow, lengthened, oval figure", or rather, it is a fissure; and it is guarded, as is well known, by a crescentic plane of muscle, whose flat surfaces are apposed to the two walls of the ventricle in wliich it lies, and whose concave margin, acute and free, is presented towards the apex of the heart. The convex edge of this crescent is united to the auricular margin of the yielding wall; that margin being, as it were, folded into the ventricle, in order to form the valvular cres- cent, by which name it will be desirable to distinguish this part. (See D 2 of the Figs, on PI. 3.) The inferior horn of this crescent is attached to the solid wall, at the point where the two walls unite poste- riorly ; and the anterior and superior horn, being directed towards the pulmonary artery, has attachment to the inner face of the yielding wall; whence it is immediately