69 Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Birds. we seem to observe one more element of the valvular ap- pai'atus fading away. The relation of a few experiments on the valve of birds will serve to draw these views to a close. These have not been less conclusive, in my opinion; but, in order to meet the settled conviction which prevails as to the office of the crescentic valves, and with a view to obviate objections that will arise to the experimentalist, it is necessary to take some notice of the condition of the parts to be experimented upon. The right ventricle of birds doubtless may, and often does, become distended in dying; yet we mostly find that the sub- sequent tonic contraction lessens the distention, and adjusts the valve. The most common condition that we find, at any time within a fortnight after death, is certainly one of con- traction, though variable as to degi’ee. The same obtains, apparently, when the death has been attended with loss of blood, and when it has not. The suddenness with which the heart of birds may contract permanently, when removed alive, is very remarkable, and must not be forgotten. When experimenting formerly on birds, I found the right valve so generally and firmly closed, that if very conspi- cuous differences in the valvular construction had not pre- sented themselves, I should have resigned all idea of a safety-valve in this varied class of animals. In numerous trials upon several kinds of poultry, at different and, for the most part, distant periods after death, the valves acted very well, with scarcely any exception; or, at least, the inference of a safety-valve function was by no means satisfactory. Probably very few persons have had the opportunity of noticing the right ventricle of birds when distended in or after death. It is still less likely that any should have remarked the appearance of the valve under these cir- cumstances ; which, in truth, could only be striking in very few, as the swan or crane. Most anatomists, viewing the contracted heart, as it is usually found, with the close valve natural to the more com- mon birds, would very justly conclude that nothing could be more efficient, as a propulsive apparatus. Experiments will be found, however, to prove that a true valve is incompa- tible with the dilatation that may take place in some birds.