3G FRACTURE. new bone had been marked out by some effi- cient circumscribing cause ; and that each of its inflexions is just such as would be pro- duced by the well-organized periosteum, pro- ducing bone within itself, only not supposing it to remain entire in lengths after a fracture, but merely to have this general inclination. The truth is, however, that various traces only of such an arrangement of the consoli- dating material are to be found in each case, but the disturbing causes of this formation are too numerous to be adverted to with very precise indications. We have next to observe a different mode of reunion,—a difference of process though not of principle,—in the case of a broken extre- mity, pressing with greater or less obliquity against a portion of shaft in its natural invest- ment, as in a fracture attended with much overlapping. Here the process is very pecu- liar, and the first union is mainly in propor- tion to the extent of surfaces thus brought into opposition. No. 1, Fig. 22, may facilitate the explana- tion of the process required under the cir- cumstances last named ; i. e. the simple over- lapping of two broken ends, with a pretty close opposition of their sides. This seems to demand the absorption of all intervening fibrous tunic before union can occur; but here the agency of other periosteum is not needed, since the circumference of that which is removed (in consequence of lateral com- pression of the two bones) is involved at the same time in inflammation, and the neces- sary earthy secretion is deposited on both bones, and an intimate agglutination of the two is thus effected. The changes are in order thus :—pressure and absorption of inter- vening periosteum ; surrounding inflammation with deposits ; then, union of adjoining edges of periosteum ; and afterwards of adjoining edges of new bony layers formed By the inflamed periosteum. We have seen that one half of this process is performed when a tumour makes sufficient circumscribed pressure against a bone. The compressed membrane is absorbed, and the spot goes near to die, whilst a ridge of adven- titious bone surrounds it, having been pro- duced beneath that periosteum, which irrita- tion, short of destruction, had driven into activity. It is unnecessary to follow out the peculiarities and deviations of this process after fractures. It will suffice to say, that reparative ossification is mostly scanty in spongy bones ; and that the mode of union by the absorption of periosteum will often mingle with that which is effected by continuity or cicatrization of the membrane ; but it still remains to be remarked, that the feeble union, which may result from the contact of an incon- siderable point or extremity with a lateral surface of shaft, may be greatly strengthened by accidental injuries, or even by a complete repetition of fracture, giving rise to more extensive inflammation and osseous ettusion. This is not a trifling consideration, whether it concerns practical desiderata or mischiefs- to be obviated. The kind of union referred to is not rare : the broken bones of the fore arm and leg often become knit together *; a fractured vertebral spinous process adheres to one adjoining and unbroken ; fracture with luxation leads to ankylosis, or the broken end of a humerus becomes consolidated with the scapula, &c. Suppose, with the displacement- represented in fig. 1, only a narrow point of- the inferior fragment to have come in contact- with the surface of the shaft above, and the- natural consequences are sufficiently certain. A wound, or pressure, with absorption, pre- cedes ossification around each point of con- tact ; and the more of moderate disturbance, or even of repeated fractures, the more pro- longed and copious is the ossification, until itt becomes too strong to yield. I think these- things cannot be doubted, and that a know- ledge of the effect of motion is of great prac- tical importance. It belongs to the manage- ment of all common fractures as well as of ununited fractures, and also to the tr'eatment- of impending ankylosis, and to the surgical cure of established ankylosis. Fig. 25. Fruclura of the femur, u-ith lateral tlkpluccment and reunion. The pressure of the opposed fraynumts has - produced inflammation and ahsoiption of periosteum, and subsequently ossific union. Both disused ends have been closed up, and one is now in proyress of atrophy. The centre of the solid callus is also in process of ex- cavation, while its outline is dense and thick, l>einp more particularly the juirt u'hich supports the strain which the whole s)uift has to resist. The examination of many specimens, as that ' In the Museum at St. Tlioinns’s hospital is a- clavicle, which lias been comminutcil in the middle, and is become consolidated with the coracoid process , of the scapula.