DESCRIPTION OF PLATE II.—Continued. 60 A The solid wall. B The yielding wall. C The fixed curtain, and its cords (one instead of many), D The curtain, and cords of distention. F The moderator band (of distention). f The transverse dotted lines explain the gradual disappearance (the fading transitions) of the same band. The Numerals refer to the various attachments peculiar to the columns of distention in the several orders of animals. In relation to the moderator band, the columns of distention (represented, in each case, as one) are attached internally towards the solid wall, as seen at 1; or they are attached externally towards the yielding wall, as shewn at 4 ; or their attachment is intermediate, as at 2 and 3, between the two walls and upon the moderator band itself, though also extending farther, to be at- tached to either wall. Diagrams 2, 3, 4 and 5, may serve to pourtray the four earliest stages in which the column of distention is found, as described in the first series of animals. In Diagram 2, the column (D) is small, most dependent on the solid wall (A) ; most remote from the yielding wall (B); and almost destitute of a moderator band (F). In the remaining three, there is seen a gradual increase of the column and band, and a greater inclination towards the yielding wall. Diagram 6. represents a considerably greater development of the appara- tus of distention than the preceding. D The first column of distention is becoming subject to the yielding wall; and E The second is following the same mode of evolution. The dotted column is also developing itself. Diagram 7, like those preceding, shews the formation of the apparatus of distention as connected with the yielding wall (B); the common columns of distention (1 and 2) being attached to it. And here is likewise represented the gradual development of the bifid heart, with thinning of the cavity’s left wall towards the apex ; and the corresponding gradation of the columns formerly fixed, now more properly the left or accessory columns of distention (4,5, 6). If the dotted line (G) be the outline of the sepa- rated left ventricle, the great column (4) will justly represent the arrange- ment of this structure in the Porpoise ; in^whom the newly-developed acces- sory column of distention, partly confined by the moderator band (F), is based upon the thin and yielding part of the left wall, once the solid septum. To explain the adjustment of parts in the Seal, the same Diagram and Ileferences may serve, with the exclusion of the great column (4) ; in which case, the incipient accessory column of distention (5) is inserted into the solid wall, with many other cords, and unaflfected by dilatation : but it is remarkable, that already the length of this muscular column renders its contraction an important object in the motions of the valve, as is also the case in some ruminants. The remaining dotted lines (J & K) are in- tended to represent the outline of the left ventricle, in the succeeding stages of more considerable separation; that is, in cases where the bifid heart is most marked. In these cases, so much more of the solid loall will be yielding wall; and so much more will the fixed columns become, as I anticipate, accessory columns of distention.