FRACTURE. U the shaft. The parts are in the museum at Guy's Hospital; they were taken from a female of ahout forty-fire years of age, %uho fell from a chair in which she had been standing, and alighted on her foot. At the end of three u-e'eks the only appearances of repair were slight bony masses scattered beneath the periosteum over the surfaces of the fragments, and over the fissure. The fracture teas simple, and the patient was carried qjf by fever and visceral inflam- mation. Of flexed or hent bone.—Modern surgeons are divided on the question, whether we should admit that fractures may differ according as they are complete or incomplete ; but I do not hesitate to resolve it in the affirmative. Some cases of impacted fracture, and fis- sures in flat bones, where the rupture of the osseous tissue does not extend to both sur- faces, or actually separate any fragment from the bone, are, I think, to be looked upon as incomplete fractures. The result of violence applied to any of the long bones, in early life, is not unfrequently an angular deformity, without crepitus or mo- bility of the bone in the situation of the injury, plainlj"^ arising from an incomplete or partial fracture. In these cases, the fracture will almost always be rendered complete, in the attempt to restore the natural direction of the bone, without great caution and gentleness on the part of the surgeon. Mr. Hart, in a paper on this kind of fracture, in the first num- ber of the “ Dublin Journal of Medical Science,” justly assigns the large proportion of animal matter in the young bone as the cause of this peculiar fracture of childhood. The late Mr. How'ship preserved a speci- men of defined angular yielding in an infant’s femur. This example is now in the Museum of Guy’s Hospital, with some others. The peculiar appearance of these incomplete frac- tures may be very easily produced experi- mentally in young bones, so that the general fact need not be doubted, although the term, imperfect fracture, does not well express it. It must appear more reasonable to employ the term, flexed, or bent bone. Chaussier and others have recorded many cases of fracture occurring during intra-uterine life. They are usually the consequence of some external violence to which the mother has been exposed before the birth of the child, or of force used at the birth; injudiciously, or of necessity, in effecting delivery by art. Chaussier has met, in the same foetus, with a great number of fractures, which could not be attributed to violence, and to which he has therefore given the name of spontaneous frac- tures. There was a remarkable example of this kind, in which each of the long bones presented one or more of these lesions, some of which were recent, others beginning to unite, whilst others wmre consolidated. 1 he child survived its birth only seventy-four hours. Somewhat similar cases have been reported by Gardner and Glokcngicser; and there arc evident analogies between such cases, and those of rickety fractures already described. There is an injury to which bones arc liable from violence, in the earliest periods of life, which is somewhat different from ordinary frac- ture, inasmuch as the osseous tissue itself may remain intact. I allude to the forcible sepa- ration of an epiphysis from the shaft of a bone, or the disunion of the distinct parts of which a child’s bone is composed, as when the head of the femur is driven through the acetabulum into the pelvis, severing the three parts of which the os innominatum consists in early life. This is a subject of considerable import- ance, to which I shall return. The same general principles of treatment are applicable to the three cases, — fracture, flexure, and separation of the epiphyses of bones. Varieties which depend on the degrees of in- jury done to the parts around the fracture.— A distinction between fractures, of great interest in practice, is founded on the degree of injury inflicted on the soft parts, either by the fractured bone itself, or by the external violence that produced the fracture. In this point of view fractures are distinguished into simple and complicated. A simple fracture is one in which the force producing it is entirely or nearly expended in effecting the fracture, and in which the soft parts have suffered but little. It is scarcely possible for a fracture to take place without some mischief to the soft parts, such as more or less tearing of the periosteum, and injury to the muscles in immediate contact with the bone. A simple fracture does not necessarily in- volve much more than the essentials of frac- ture—a fissure of separation, sanguineous effusion, and slight lesions of the superjacent periosteum ; but it is customary among sur- geons to regard most fractures as simple, although there be some comminution, and considerable displacements, as well as lacera- tion of periosteum, cellular membrane, and muscle, and even some contusion. Extrava- sated blood, to the amount of drachms, or even ounces, is not usually thought to deprive a fracture of the simple character, unless under peculiar circumstances ; for, it is ever to be remembered, the foundation of this valuable and truly surgical distinction is in the practical knowledge, that the course of reparation in such fractures is simple ; that is, ill the general, without danger, or material iuterrujition. Complicated Fractures. — Whenever any common circumstance of sinqile fracture is met with in a materially excessive or trouble- some degree, the case should, at least in a practical sense, be styled complicated. Im- moderate displacement, comminution, lacera- tion of muscle or membrane, and extravasation, constitute the first order of complications. To entitle a fracture to rank as a strictly complicated one, the lesion of the soft parts must be of a serious nature, cither from the extent of the injury, its opening a communi- cation with the air, or its engaging some important part.