51 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. insertions ; and both the horse and ass* possess a little pro- minent column^. .In all these, the moderator hand is placed low, and very much as in the gazelle ; and it is, for the most part, scarcely muscular, but long, slight, and yielding ; and often almost disappearing, as it were by atrophy. Some- times there are two thread-like cords only. On occasions, however, the band might appear to be of importance, being of great thickness and moderate length; but then it is placed farther distant from the column ; and, as I have found it attended with an unusual degree of hypertrophy in the cavity, and elongation of the column, I regard it as a part of a congenital excess of power in this cavity altogether. Under all circumstances, it appears only as an exception!. The valve of the pig much resembles that of the sheep; but the cords and points in the compound column of disten- tion, as well as the moderator hand, are somewhat less considerable. The cavity seems capable of much enlarge- ment. The lama and camel present very interesting gradations. The first has a bifid column of distention, with pretty nu- merous cords; which seems to explain the opinion, that the broad column is formed by the aggregation of several parallel pillars; as if a succession of single columns left the solid wall, posteriorly, to augment the breadth and traction of the compound column in several different degrees or gradations. Here, and in many of these animals, the most posterior of the fixed cords are beginning to have a distinct muscular column. In the lama, also, the moderator hand is muscular, and of good size, but very unfavourably placed to affect the column of distention: it is very near to the * I found the proportion very similar in two zebra’s hearts likewise. •f" In the heart of one of the asses that were examined, the tricuspid seemed to have rather an unusual formation. The ordinary column of disten- Hon was of moderate size, and its moderator band was narrow and shortish. There was a second, and still considerable column of distention, pretty close behind the first. The most posterior of the fixed cords were, as usual, planted upon a considerable column. This was in an animal about six months old, which was killed with doses of prussic acid. About twenty minutes after its death, the tricuspid did not admit of reflux. $ The excessive development of the moderator band has been noticed in the horse, by Sir Astley Cooper. I have seen it but once. Once, also, in the diseased heart of a woman, I met with it.