45 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. With regard to these, and all the succeeding series, I may observe, that many gradations must remain to be supplied; and the whole will require correcting, as well as enlarging. Possibly a long period of confinement, and limited diet, may affect the development or appearance of the columns. In experimenting upon the hearts of this series, as well immediately after death as at later periods, I have, for the most part, made use of the largest animals that could easily be obtained; and I have not been inattentive to observe and vary their state of repletion, and also the general mus- cular efforts. Upon making the injections, as formerly described, the result has been very various: and although the valve has often been seen to close neatly, and indeed firmly*, yet the quantity of reflux which has been noticed in some other cases has been rather a matter of astonishment. It has, how- ever, never amounted to the copious regurgitation which I shall have to describe hereafter. Second Series.—In the hearts of a second series of animals, the anterior column of distention is of full size, reaching to the extremity of the yielding wall; and the moderator hand is considerably developed, particularly in the most-advanced grades; and in some we see, moreover, the second column of distention following the same course of development. (See Diagr. 6. PI. 2.) The appearance of a moderator hand, in relation with this second column, rarely seems to become very significant, or deserving of attention f. A third column is usually found, but it is of small size: thus the curtains are more liable to displacement, by reason of the extent of the columns, and * Blumenbach observes, that sometimes the right heart ceases to beat before the left, particularly in rabbits. This I conclude is the effect of the ventricle s attempt to contract, when full, and unable to expel its contents in either direction. The existence of some degree of reflux with the disten- tion is the only cause I could assign for the longer continuance of motion m the right heart. I have found it easy to stimulate the left ventricle, when dying; and to renew its motions, by distending it with fluid. ■f" In ruminant animals, the moderalor band having attained a great de- velopment, will be seen to decline through several degrees, as if less and less needful to the great column of distenlion which these animals possess. The same process probably occurs with regard to the liberation of the second column of distenlion, wherever it exists. Its moderator band, never very prominent, is less and less required, and fades away altogether. 1.2