From the first appearance of reparative, permanent callus is completed, and the pro-- recovers its natural texture and thickness at bone, it is apparent that this highly organizedi 2i) Figs. 13. FRACTURE. newed ; and, finally, the consolidation of the Fig. 12. the fifth or sixth month to the end of the this mass passes to visional or tempo- definitive or perma- been perfected, this exists; and that when the definitive callus callus has been com- two different kinds of nently restored, and the fragments directly Fi^. 12 is taken from Part 2, fig. 1, plate 3, of Mr. ture, very much as the young bone does,— It is here neces- sary to advert to the assertion of Dupuy- tren, that there are callus, one called pro- rary, and the other, nent ;—that in the early periods of the process of repair pro- visional callus 011I3" the consolidation has pletely absorbed,and alone remains. At first, it is said, a mass of callus occupies the interval between the medullary cavities of the fragments ; and a prolongation from B. Cooper's paper. “ It eachHiitsa perfect hony corny- lidation, althouyh still prior to the restoration of its medullary cavity. The neidy-deposited osseous me- dium may be observed to be externally of a compact structure; while internally it still retains a spongy and highly-vascular appearance. No vestige of tem- porary caHiluge remains; and in the dissection of this preparation all the structures surrounding the bone were found restored to their natural appear- ance ; atid even the muscles were attached by a na- tural kind of tendinous insertion into Ihc new boneP a greater or less distance into the interior of each fragment. Another mass, which forms the tumour of the callus, discover- able by the hand, encloses the fragments as if with a clasp. These two masses consti- tute the provisional callus ; of which the only use, according to Dupuytren, is to support and confine the fragments, while nature is accomplishing the deposition of the definitive callus. The secretion of the defini- tive callus commences in the fourth period, of w'hich we are speaking ; and as it slowly proceeds, the provisional callus is gradually absorbed. That which occupies the medullary cavity becomes, successively, porous, reti- cular, and ultimately comi)letely absorbed, so that the medullarj" canal is restored ; and eventually the permanent callus alone re- mains, occupying the situation previously held by the gelatinous and flocculont substance ; which, in the earlier stages of the reparative process, lay directly between the fragments. The provisional callus, tlierelorc,is that which forms the superficial and central part of the tumour of the callus, and is destined to be absorbed at the latter iiart of the fourth and in the fifth period. The definitive callus is that by which the medullary canal is perma- united ; or which, in fractures where the frag- ments lie side by side, forms the bar by which they are permanently connected. 5. The fifth and last period extends from year. During this time the deposition of the visional callus is removed ; the periosteum the fracture ; the muscles and tendons regain their freedom of motion ; the medullary canal is gradually restored, and its membrane and,, consequently, the secretion of marrow, re- fracture is complete. formation continues to be changed in its struc- growth going on without, and excavation 1 within, &c. until the final changes are com-- pleted. From an analysis made by Dr. Davj% one hundred and twenty-eight days after the inju-- ry, the comjiarative composition of the shaft: Figs. 13 are taken from sections of two femora in the Museum of the College of Surgenjis in Dublin. Both bones had been broken long before death, and e.vhibit a condition of the callus which must have e,vistcd for a long time, yet u'hich does not^ correspond coeactly with the account usually given of the pc.rmancnt callus. In neither is the medullary canal completely restored, and in both these are eon- ^ siderablc remains of what, according to Dupuytren's definition, must be regarded as provisional callus.