FRACTURE. 12!^ this point. Some particular, and doubtful signs with reference to fractures of particular parts of the femur, will be hereafter adverted to. The deformity which is attendant upon almost all fractures of the femur, from its fre- quent tendency to return after coaptation, or the difficulties in treating it, requires a very distinct knowledge of its causes. The broken limb is nearly always considerably shorter than its perfect fellow, which denotes that the frac- tured ends ride, or that the lower portion is drawn under the upper. In this, the longest bone of the body, it is most evident, that the natural resistance being lost, the muscles will draw the lighter and less fixed part of the limb towards the unyielding portion ; that is, the knee will be retracted towards the pelvis. Ihe weight of the foot will induce some ro- tation, generally eversion. The flexors of the hip-joint make the upper fragment point for- wards : the great glutei sometimes give it an inclination outwards; and the adductor magnus is inclined to act on the lower end of the in- ferior fragment, while, perhaps, the gluteus maximus acts on its upper part. These effects are named in the order of the frequency with which they are found to have been produced in old united fractures; but no doubt other muscles are concerned in causing them. In connexion with this part of my subject, I would beg the reader’s attention to Mr. Aston Key’s letter, which will be found at the conclusion of Fractures of the Femur. Sir Charles Bell says, in his Institutes, “ I put twelve specimens of fractured thigh-bone into a case, alt of them exhibiting the upper portion of the bone projecting forwards be- yond the lower portion.” This deformity is, no doubt, the most general in all fractures of the femur, between the condyles and tro- chanters ; and if the appearance of the speci- mens in museums is to speak, as well as the partiality of surgeons whilst limbs are encased in living flesh, the correct treatment of such cases is still very much in the province of in- quiry, and very little determined by demon- strative evidence. Alteration in the plane of the bedding is also a source of displacement in addition to the influence of muscles. In the horizontal posture of the frame the buttocks support the greatest pressure, and soon effect a depression in the bed, into which, as on an inclined plane, the upper part of the trunk glides, and bear- ing further on the pelvis, urges the fractured extremity of bone connected with it down- wards over its inferior corresponding portion. The weight of the foot tends to rotate the knee outwards. The consequent irritation of muscles, by the fractured surfaces thus put in motion, tends to increase the displace- ment. 'I'hcrc is less liability to longitudinal dis- placement in transverse fractures, in conse- (jnence of there being, sometimes, effective surfaces of resistance to the muscles acting on the lower portion ; as when the upper [lortion is carried forward by the pelvis and is met by a ly broad surface of resistance on the lower por- tion. Finally, the kind of deformity is partly de- pendent upon the nature of the blow producing the accident; and perhaps little less, on the misapplied assistance of those who carry the sufferer to his bed. An angular direction may thus be given to the fracture, and the lower portion of the limb may be made to rotate further outwards or inwards on its own axis. Treatment.—The reader must revert to the general observations on the treatment of frac- tures for some particular remarks relative to the management of broken thighs. Amongst approved surgeons, the treatment: of fractured thighs, in regard to position, differs ■ very considerably ; three distinct methods be-- ing in practice: viz. 1. The straight or ex-- tended position, which was recommended by Hippocrates, and is still preferred by many; 2. the practice of laying the limb upon its- side with the knee flexed, introduced by Mr. Pott: and 3. the position, of the patient upon his back, with the thigh and leg supported on two oblique planes, which meet under the flexure of the knee, now also much approved. These differences in practice arise from various opinions respecting the effects of position. It is urged on the one hand, that displacement is less likely to occur in a flexed position with muscles relaxed, than when the limb is extended ; and the comparative ease with which the coaptation of a frac- tured humerus is maintained when the elbow is flexed, is adduced as an example of the jus- tice of this preference ’. On the other hand, it is objected that this method presupposes the relaxation of muscles attendant upon flexed positions to be more general than really happens ; that the relaxation of some is the extension of others, as in the case above- mentioned, where the biceps and other mus- cles are relaxed, but the triceps and anconeus are in a state of tension. A doubt is also preferred as to whether relaxation of muscle is the best means to prevent spasms occasion- ing displacement. It seems demonstrable that powerful exten- sion can be most directly exerted and main- tained in the extended posture of the leg. Next it is evident that as the fracture if nearer to the condyles, the less is it difficul to depress the shaft, to obviate its riding for wards ; and vice ver.m. It is plain enough tha with a division below and near the trochante- minor, and the thrustingforwards of the uppe portion of the femur, there are no means o depressing that part while the limb is extend ed on the bed ; although it is practicable by : different position to make the lower fragment ’ Tills is very just 80 fiir OR it froes. The l)irc])S nui limrliinlis licing luilt rclaxoii instoiul of strotrlu-il to tii- utmost, lu'iups tlio arm nearest to the coiuiitioii of roiii ))letc rest; hut this is not to he lieedlessly ronipnrei with what is really au opposite ease. Cousiiierahh,! flexion of the knee hrili"S the great (|ua<lrieeps into i ■ state of tension, without any very material elfeet n ■ the way of relaxing the long flexors oflhc knee.