Mr. King on the Safely- Valve in Mammalia. 55 valve of considerable strength, with but one slight colum- nar jet*. A goat, fattened for slaughter, was struck three smart blows on the head, and the chest laid open in about three minutes; the respirations having scarcely ceased. The heart distended the pericardium, and was beating feebly. It was immediately cut out. Its substance was loose, and the right ventricle very wide. The long pipe of a syringe was inserted at once into the pulmonary artery; but the tri- cuspid curtains at this time were not equal to closing more than one half of their aperture; the bicuspid acted perfectly- Cold water was injected. At the end of twenty minutes, the right valve was but a little more perfect: after ten minutes more, its closure only transmitted two very broad bands of reflux f. The heart of a pig has only been experimented on in a state of semi-contraction, as it seemed; and in this case, the right valve acted with tolerable precision. A male gazelle had been dead three or four days. The heart was very full of fibrinous blood. Under injection, the * I have several times performed parallel experiments to these last, on the hearts of sheep, at different periods after their last pulsations ; and the con- sequences have always been very similar. The probability is, that the tri- cuspid valve in sheep has an exceedingly incomplete function as a valve; since, in the yet living heart, the simple pouring in of water by the pulmo- nary artery is sometimes attended by a complete reflux, although the cur- tains easily flow to with the current; and although it is always seen, when the ventricle has had time and freedom to contract, that the valve acts nicely, and with some strength. + I have attained the same result often, and the contrary also. A kid, seven weeks old, was allowed to feed during the day, until four in the after- noon, when it was killed by one stroke on the head : the chest was ripped open, and the blood escaped by the cava: the heart was immediately cut out, and the pipe of the syringe held in the mouth of the pulmonary artery. The right ventricle was thin, and held a large quantity (of cold water) : it still continued to contract feebly: a little force served to.bring the valves imperfectly together; and they closed pretty neatly, but very feebly. After about twenty minutes, there was but little improvement. In another kid, about eight weeks old, insensibility was induced at a blow, and the heart removed almost instantly. The contractions of the right side continued imperfectly for two minutes during the injection : the valve closed very feebly; but though it allowed some escape, the ventricle was easily filled without force : a very little produced an increased reflux. It had eaten nothing for twelve hours, nor sucked for eight. These results depend on the removal of the heart without the accumulation which strug- gling or a gradual death are likely to produce.