22 FRACTURE. not a little, in its external characters, resem- bling bone. Of this nature are the calcareous stems of the coral polypes, the shells of the testaceous mollusca, and the armour of the Crustacea, with many species of which they were familiar, and in which the original for- mation, and the growth of these substances, take place precisely in the manner in which they supposed the callus to be effused and in- spissated into bone. In the tubipora musica, the manner in which the calcareous tubes in- habited by the polypes, and the stages by which these tubes are at intervals supported, are formed, seems to make a surprisingly close approximation, in one of the lowest animals, to ossification in the highest. But between all these substances and bone there is this essential difference, that they are ex- tra-vascular and dead ; growing only by layers added to the surface which is in con- tact with the living substance of the ani- mal ; while bone, as is now on all hands admitted, is endowed M'ith vital properties, is nourished, and grows by means of ves- sels permeating it in every part. If, there- fore, an inorganic material were effused be- tween the fragments, it would immediately ex- cite inflammation of the soft parts, and even of the bone ; and the first duty that nature would impose upon herself, would be to throw it out of the body as a foreign substance. The theory of Duhamel, which was pro- posed in the early part of last century, long kept possession of the schools. According to it, the ruptured periosteum of each frag- ment swells, extends towards, and at length unites with, the periosteum of the other. It now' thickens, extends itself between the fragments, becomes fibro-cartilaginous, carti- laginous, and finally osseous, forming an os- seous clasp externally, and an osseous mass immediately between the fragments, by which they become firmly and permanently united. Duhamel also admits that, in some cases, similar changes take place in the torn medul- lary membrane. Thus it would appear to be by the gradual ossification of the periosteum, and sometimes of the medullary membrane also, that fractures are repaired ; and it is re- presented that by these membranes only, bone can be formed. According to the theory of Bordenave, the process, by which callus is formed, re- sembles strictly that by which the union of a solutio)! of continuity in the soft parts is brought about. This, indeed, is not a theory of the formation of callus, but an assertion that the theory, whatever that may be, which will explain the union of soft parts, is similai to, or identical with that by wliich the repair of a fractured bone is to be accounted foi. This is sufficiently vague, yet is it, in my o|)i- nion, less liable to serious objection, and moie nearly in accordance with our present physio- logical knowledge, and acf|uaintance with the facts of the reparative process in fracture, than any of the theories which preceded or have fol- lowed it ; inasmuch as it neither admits of the existence, in the living body, of an inorganic material undergoing a series of purely physical changes, by which repair is effected, nor attri- butes the production of callus to the agency of any particular tissue—as the medullary membrane, the bone itself, the periosteum, or the surrounding soft parts. With the exception of Bordenave, and those who have more or less closely adopted his views, Duhamel and all succeeding theo- rists respecting callus, have fallen into this latter error; and modern surgeons are con- stantly using language that implies the adop- tion of it. I will not answer for it (so deeply is the language of physiology on this subject imbued with it) that my own is free from the same charge. We con- tinually hear of the conversion into hone, the transformation into bone, the ossification of the medullary membrane, the periosteum, the cellular tissue, and sometimes, even of the muscles. Such language is, in the pre- sent day, perfectly barbarous, and incon- sistent with our actual knowledge in physio- logy. To speak of the transformation of the periosteum, or any other part, into bone, is as irreconcileable with the received opinions respecting the growth and nutrition of the animal tissues, as the ancient absurdity of the effusion of an osseous juice to be inspissated into bone. Wherever, and on whatever occa- sion, bone is formed, w'hether in its original production, in the growth and nutrition of that w'hich already exists, or in its accidental formation in callus or in morbid deposits, there, I conceive, the absorbents of that part first remove the previously existing particles ; and the nutritious vessels possessing, or having acquired, the organization and vital properties (whatever those may be) that bestow on them the power of selecting from the blood and secreting the materials of bone, substitute, for the particles that have been removed, osseous particles, by the aggregation of which, bone is first pro- duced, or rcnew’ed, or morbidly deposited. Haller and Dethleef, observing the effusion of lymph between the fVagments of the fractured bone, and that the extremities of these became softer and swollen ; and thinking it natural to suppose that the different tissues have some ■ peculiar power of reproducing their like, at- tributed the production of callus to the agency of the vessels of the broken bone itself. After what has been said above, I think it unneces-- sary to do more than state merely the opinion i of the great physiologist, and that of Dethleef 1 on this subject. In the present day, those who have devo-- ted themselves to the investigation of the ])rocess of the repair of fractures, and from whom I have taken the minute account of it given already, have happily^ rather ap- plied themselves to the ascertaining of facts, than the construction of theories. 1 say, hap- pily, because, in the first place, we are still ^ ignorant of the facts necessary for the founda- tion of a rational theory ; and, secondly, be-