13 Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. make the following experiments; which are recorded with a view also of illustrating several other points in the preceding pages. Case 1. John H., aged 66, died of stricture of the oesophagus in the neck, with acute surrounding suppurations and pleuritis. Twenty-six hours afterwards, the stomach contained near a pint of fluid, and shewed manifest signs of having been acted on by the gastric juice. The extreme cuticle of the oesophagus was partially lost and loosened; that within the first half-inch of the tube was much less affected; but above were broken lines and dots, both of cuticle and denuded surface, for two or three inches, but least superiorly. The cul-de-sac, and much of the lesser curvature, was af- fected internally, being thin ai^d soft, and of a pale, greenish- brown colour, opaque and dull; the larger veins being marked by the exudation of blackish blood. About tbe greater curva- ture, the mucous membrane seemed naturally even, granular, and pinkish, and coated with a thin, firm layer of whitish mucus; and about the pylorus it was in a similar state, but pale and mamelonate. Opposite the oesophagus, a sudden and clear boundary line was seen, of four or five inches in extent, transversely between the healthy and the thin and lacerable lining. This being well washed under the water-cock until the coat of mucus was separated in parts from the healthy surface (there was some on the other), little fragments of litmus-paper were strewed over the whole; and in a few seconds, all were red which fell on the digested surface, and only these distinctly. A long strip of blue paper was laid across the boundar y line; and the acid re-action slowly appeared on both sides of the line, but did not extend much more than a quarter of an inch to the right; and even this was more feebly marked. Case 2. .Tan. 27j 1842.—Catherine M., aged 18, a well-grown per- son, the subject of old bronchitis, and more recent pneumonia, was examined twenty hours after death. 3 he liver and kidneys were much congested. No part of the stomach appeared actually digested. The