Mr. King on the Sofety-Va've Function of the Heart. o quantity, and its pabulum is gradually and almost continually supplied; and the infantile movements are, for the most part, gentle as regards the means of hurrying the venous circulation by muscular actions; and we may suppose the right side of the heart to have an easy play, to have no tendency to over-distention, or possibly only some slight and transitory delay. But as age advances, the less frequent and fuller meals, the more sudden and considerable venous re- pletions, the accumulations in the right heart from general exertions, with occasional delays in the lungs and arterial system arising from the growing activity and augmenting efforts, all conspire to disturb the once-equable current in the right ventricle. It may even happen, perhaps, that this cavity shall sometimes be more engaged in resisting dis- tention than in keeping up the circulation: and I do not doubt, that as diminished calls to exertion lead to feebleness of the part, so rare and sudden fulness will induce dilatation without hypertrophy. It is very little to admit, that the facts which should carry conviction on these points are not readily at command. My own opinion, however, is, that a fair knowledge of all the established circumstances of the case will not leave room to regard these views as merely hypothetical. I imagine, too, that very palpable facts in comparative anatomy and patho- logy fully accord with the same explanations. If, besides these successive periodic conditions, it should hereafter be established that the different ages of the adult, and even the sexes, have peculiar adaptations, the result will hardly be more than I have long anticipated. In examining the foetal heart, I have been led, to conclude that its tricuspid curtains, in respect alike of form, adjust- ment and proportion, are certainly much more completely adapted for a true and strong valvular action than they sub- sequently become; and the occasional oppoi’tunities I have made of trying the operation of the valve experimentally have assisted to corroborate the same conclusion. A safety- valve is evidently not needed for the protection of the lungs at this time; and the regularity of the circulation genei’ally would scarcely allow it to be called into operation, if it existed. 1 imagine the right ventricle, communicating freely