63 Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Birds. nary artery. The anterior horn of the crescent of distention is attached to the yielding wall, in conjunction with the anterior horn of the true valvular crescent; thus forming an attachment of distention, which is strictly analogous to the single column of distention in certain quadrupeds, as in the horse; and more remarkably so, when it (the attachment of distention) is divided into several cords, as I have sometimes found it. Considering the crescents in the distended ventricle, the auriculo-ventricular opening may be represented by a tri- angle (as in Diagrams PI. 3.), the base of which is (A) the solid wall of the cavity; whilst, of its two other sides, the longer one is formed by (D 2) the valvular crescent, and the shorter by the crescent of distention (D 1). The union of these two, at their common point of attachment (D), forms an angle which seems to differ somewhat in different orders, and to be of some importance with respect to the function of reflux. I shall endeavour to shew that the tendency to distention in the right ventricle of birds exists in various degrees; that it is gradational; and that the extent of the crescent of disterdion is of correspondent development in the several gradations; and that the consequence of this is, that the valvular crescent is liable to displacement in the same pro- portion, to the effect of producing regurgitation. In one case, the susceptibility to dilatation is very insignificant: the crescent of distention is short, and the valvular crescent cannot be removed from the sphere of its true valvular action: the fissure is open only to the afflux of blood. In other cases, the dilatability of the ventricle is more or less considerable, or it is extreme: the crescent of distention is elongated accordingly; and the valvular crescent is propor- tionately displaced, whenever the cavity becomes distended. In the same manner and degree, the auriculo-ventricular opening continues unclosed 'during the distention; and the aperture of reflux is free. It is apparent that the thickness or thinness of the yield- ing wall forms a very essential consideration, witli regard to its liability to distention ; and it is observable, that, as in