FRACTURE. 14G the knee, Sir A. Cooper kept it wet for a day or two, or until the swelling had subsided, by linen wet with a lotion of liquor plumbi acet. dil. ^v, and sp. vini ; and leeches were ap- plied if the fulness or ecchymosis increased. The too early application of the bandage. Sir A. Cooper has seen give rise to the great- est suffering, and to swelling that threatened gangrene. I think, however, it will be at onee appa- rent, that if local antiphlogistic means are not necessary to prevent inflammation of the sy- novial membrane, they are actually calculated to interrupt the reparation. With respeet to union by bone, the anterior face of the patella is alone endowed with periosteum capable of forming callus with activity ^; and the only stimulus to inflammation (in the absence of contact and attrition), is the primary injury, so that the application of cold must, at once and for ever, subdue the energy of reparation. The indiscriminate use of such means may even retard or deteriorate the proeess of liga- mentous union. No consideration, however, is to stand before the necessary treatment of artieular inflammation ; venesection, purga- tives, and antimonials are rather to be used too soon than too late, as well as local anti- phlogistics. The apparatus employed by Sir A. Cooper in the place of the roller, consisted of a lea- ther strap buckled round the thigh above the upper fragment of the bone; and from this, an- other longer strap passed along the side of the knee, round the foot and along the opposite side of the leg and knee, to the eircular strap again, to which the end of it was fixed and tightened. B3' the addition of tapes it might be further secured along the foot and leg. The common plan of bringing the upper piece of the bone towards the lower, is by means of a circular bandage placed both above and below the fractured patella, and drawn toge- ther by tapes. It is necessary here to re- member, that the kind of force thus employed to appi’oximate the fragments does not act upon them so directly and exclusively as could be desired ; the bandages depress the upper edge and the inferior point of the patella, chiefly by acting on the dense fibres inserted into these parts. The effect of this is (see p. 320 of this vol.), that the fractured surfaces incline forwards instead of directly facing each other. Next, with regard to the inferior fragment, it must be evident that but very little force is necessary or available in drawing it towards the superior fragment; and it is apparent that ’ Mr. Ocorcc Gulliver (Edinb. Mod. and Surg. .Tournal, vol. xlvii.) lias related a scries of experiments on transverse fractures of the patella. Carefully di- viding the bone, without interfering with the anterior periosteum and fibrous tissue, was followed by com- plete ossific union in many instances. The c.ase of an old dog was tlie only one in which there was a liga- mentous union; the c.xamination was made twenty- seven days after the division of the bone. I have already expressed similar opinions, and refeircd to a rase, with some reflections by myself, in No. xiii. of Guy's Hospital Reports. a circular bandage acting on the front of tl ligamentum patellae, is calctilated to press into the knee-joint, and thus even drag th apex of the patella downwards. Lastly, when our minds turn to the meat by which the upper fragment is to be draw down and confined, it is, I think, difficu to avoid the conclusion, that every thin in the shape of a close-fitting circular stra must be comparatively inefficient and ol structive. An instrument acting only agains the upper edge of the patella would seei the most efficient; and by preferring such, good deal of unnecessary pressure and cor gestion would be avoided. For similar ree sons, I think the solid splint which keeps th limb straight, should be rather less widely am closely adapted about the knee than about th thigh and leg. The undue disturbance, am unhealthy action of a circular bandage wi! hardly be caused by simple pressure agains the upper edge of the patella, to which a smal pad, long and narrow and firm, maybe closel; adapted. This pad might form part of a kini of tourniquet, and should act somewhat ob liquely, the splint being the only basis 0 resistance. The accuracy and distinctnes with which the use of such an application ma; be made without giving pain, or causing con gestion, seem to me very desirable. Mr. Lonsdale has contrived an apparatu; which, though somewhat too complicated, ha: the advantage of confining its pressure to the patella. The application of powerful restrain’ to the inferior fragment and ligamentum pa- tellae seems a singular error. It is not possible to define the degree 0 force to be applied ; probably, however, no- thing is to be expected but from gentleness, anc it is certainly desirable to employ as little vio- lence as possible. Very little force will gene- rally suffice, provided the muscles are care- fully set at rest by attention to the patient’s posture ; and kept uncxerted, by studied absti- nence from general efforts, all which neces- sarily excite every limb. The patient’s exer- tions in bed, even with the most precise application of straps, cannot fail to extend tc the injured part. When tbe knee remains inflamed and swelled^, it is certain that any direct pressure upon it would be hurtful ; but it may be well to observe, that the apprehensions of danger from the too hasty application of the bandage, need not deter us from procuring that reduc- tion of the fragments, which follows an imme- diate resort to the right posture. The gradual pressure of the upper portion of the bone towards the lower is recommended also with- out the least delay ; in short, all the coapta- tion that does not excite mischief. Much ol the lameness that has followed these accidents is justly ascribed to the neglect of mere co- aptation, and to the too hasty employment of ’ Swelling alone may l)c r.atlier a reason for em- ploying pressure, as in eertain conditions it is not so mueh an element of inflammation ns it is a result am termination of it. ^