ESSAY ON FRACTURE FRACTURE. (KXaaig,Kurayfia, Gr. Frac- tura, Lat., a fracture, from frango, I break. Beui-Bruch, Ger.) The solution of con- tinuity, or division, or separation of parts of a bone, by rupture, is called a frac- ture. The ordinary cause of fracture is violence from w’ithout; more rarely, mus- cular effort is the cause ; and occasionally, doubtless, these two causes act in concert, as when the patella or olecranon is simultane- ously struck and drawn upon by its extensor muscles. A bone may be divided by absorp- tion, as in consequence of the pressure of a tumour, and it is the consideration of this cir- Icumstance which makes the term rupture a necessary part of the systematic definition of fracture. In every case of division of bone, we shall find either a reparative, or a disorganizing train of events, the history of which is replete with the liveliest interest to the right-minded surgeon. In the extensive field of surgery there are not many departments, in which our noble art is capable of conferring greater or more fre- quent benefits on humanity, than in that which relates to fractures. In cases of every day’s occurrence, well directed art will restore its I natural strength, and form, and functions, to a 4 fractured bone ; which ignorance, or unaided ■ nature, would leave shortened and deformed, ■with the harmony between the moving gpowers and the joints so broken, by the change ■ of the relative situations of the muscles and •bones, as greatly to impair the usefulness of Ian entire limb. Even in cases apparently I trivial, as in a simple rupture of so small a Ibone as the patella, or a fracture of the lower • extremity oi the fibula, a skilful surgeon will ■effect a perfect cure, where, without his in- ■terference, there would be irremediable dis- ci tortion and weakness ; and in cases of cx- » treme severity, a bold and judicious operation '■ will substitute a simple wound, with a fair '< prospect of speedy recovery, for a compli- cated injury, which, left to nature, would lead to certain death, with perhaps far more suffer- ing than the knife inflicts. Fig. 1. Femur broken with much displacement and erroneous union. One broken end has undergone the. process which follows amputation., the other adheres bg bone to the side of the upper fragment., the fteriosicum of which has been pressed bg the broken bone., absorbed at a central part, and injkimcd around, so as to cause theformation of new bone, which together reilh that on the opposing broken end has consolidated the union. Let not the surgical student fall into the gross error,so stronglyandjustly reprobated by i?ott, of supposing that the treatment of frac-