0f) FRACTURE. I refer to the formation of innumerable bony blades, or needles, radiating from a common base, which is attached to the original bone ; and I believe it will require but little obser- vation to see that the needles are all formed \ ery much as in the preceding instances—in the angular interstices of cylindrical, or rather conical radiating fungi, by successive deposi- tions, bone, from periosteum, on their diverging and growing points. I could bring forward sections of these formations, which clearly establish this account. It is of some moment to remark, that other sections of such tumours must be confusion indeed to an unprepared observer ; for he would say, as the experimenters on fracture have been all far too ready to do, that the isolated spiculae are found every where. This is altogether un- true, or it requires altogether a new and care- ful set of proofs for fracture as well as for fungus. I know very well that a fungoid tubercle in the lung, or in a lymphatic gland, may be earthy ; but this is, I presume, beyond our proper enquir3% as will appear from the fol- lowing instance. In the museum of Guy’s hos- pital isasolidossific fungus grow ingin and from bone, and causing absorption of the original bone on all sides, and raising the periosteum ; beneath which, immediately beyond the limits of excessive pressure and absorption, inflam- mation had caused the deposit of simple bone on the original bone. Here we had honeuj)on bone, but also something very different in the specific earthy formation in the bone, which was similarly in progress in detached tuber- cles in the soft tissues of the limb, the lungs, and Ij^mphatic glands, of the same individual. Thus, in the body, as an inorganic earthy plate grows by accretion, and true bone also ; so is it with a fungus, whether it be medullary or osseous, in a bone or in a lung. It is worth while to compare a little further the^ effects of a fungoid tubercle under the periosteum with the changes produced by tu- bercles growing within bones. The latter pro- duce absorption of a bone wherever they press upon it, even though they themselves contain much new bone (as I have observed is the case when ossific fungus prevails in other parts of the body) ; while, on the other hand, the external tubercle may press and cause absorption on one part of the bone, but, all around this, true ossification may go on, even to excess, unless in rare instances, where we find periostitis with little or no ossification; and then we may suppose the bony diathesis to be wanting instead of excessive, as it some- times is. It will be found both curious and instruc- tive to carry these illustrations a step or two further. A fungoid tumour formed in the head of the tibia finally becomes three or tour times as largo as that part, and the bone still appears large enough to enclose it at every point ; but in truth nothing remains of the original head of the bone. As the new growth has pressed on successive portions, they have been absorbed until nofhino- re- mains of the natural bone ; and it is curious to observe, that while the exjianding tumour has kept up absorption within, the same cause has kept up periostitis and deposition of bone without; and the new shell still expand- ing, and mostly diminishing in thickness, takes the impress of the subjacent tumour, which, by its excessive growth, finally breaks through or destroys both bone and periosteum. In some cases, absorption preponderates; in others, ossification. One part of this process is strikingly illustrated by a rare specimen in the museum of Guy’s hospital. The instance alluded to is a patella, which has been excavated, and distended, much in the manner and degree just described rela- tive to the head of the tibia, and nearly equally' in all directions, but the formation of new shell has been most free on the anterior surface, where a very striking result is obser- vable. This part is no longer covered, as is natural, by the tendon of the extensors, but numerous strong cords of this tendon indivi- dually pierce the anterior shell above, run along its inner or posterior face, within the cavity of the bone, and again escape below, to form the ligamentum patellae. In short, it is manifest that the tumour had absorbed all the bone behind the tendon, and then had pressed through interstices of its fibres, so as to form protrusions, in front of which the inflamed periosteum, covering these, pro- trusions, continued to form bone. This is, doubtless, somewhat intricate, but it is only one step beyond the cases before related. Let the reader remember, that bone is gene- rally necessary to the deposition of bene; next, that the pressure, exerted between the growing tumour and the unyielding tendi- nous lines, must cause absorption of all the parts included between the two structures ; while, in the interstices of the tendon, ossi- fication may proceed on the surface, and absorption of bone within, until the bony bands project in front of the tendinous lines, and being still inflamed by pressure, at last ossify so extensively-, as to reunite into one layer. Lienee the phenomenon of a patella, presenting a conqiletc bony encasement an- teriorly, and having the tendinous fibres of the extensor tendon situated on its posterior surface. We thus find pressure and inllam- malion, absorption and de|)osition, going on together, or giving place to one another, ac- cording to the moment when, or the spot to M'hich our observation is directed. Again, the reader is rc(]uested to remember, in observing for himself, that various instances are to be expected in which ossilic deposits prevail, or in which they arc almost totally deficient. In order to establish the foundation, at least, of these views, let us consider the elfcet of an aneurism pressing on a bone. Is it not well understood that the jiart compressed beyond endurance loses periosteum, and some bone by absorption, while, all around, a more moderate pressure has only excited in-