Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Birds. 62 deflected, to be inserted into the solid ivall at the anterior extremity of the auriculo-ventricular fissure. Now it must be evident, that when the yielding wall is affected by dis- tention, this last deflected portion of the crescent will be proportionately elongated; and, at the same time, the adjoining extremity or horn of the valvular crescent will be removed, in an equal degree, from the solid wall, against which it ordinarily closes fast. This is the explanation of an aperture of reflux—a safety- valve under distention — as existing in birds in various degrees; but probably not in all of them. The anterior attachment of the valvular crescent varies, in its extent and strength, in the different orders of birds; and, at the same time, the deflected portion of the crescent is found to have different degrees of elongation, according to which the distention of the yielding wall, with the displacement of the valvular crescent, may be regulated, and, indeed, esti- mated. In certain cases, the deflected portion of the valvular crescent is so extensive and important, so distinctly and fully crescentic (in itself), and so plainly adapted to the office here ascribed to it, that I shall speak of it as the crescent of distention in all birds; premising, that in some it is very inconsiderable, or possibly even altogether lost. (See D. 1. Fig. 2. PI. 3.) The crescent of distention is thin, and chiefly membranous, especially where most developed. It is in some respects analogous to the moderator hand in the mammalia; but I rather regard it as a modification of an anterior curtain of the most simple tricuspid valve; and should look for the rudiment of a moderator hand among those little pillars, which assist to connect the two walls opposite to the crescent of distention anteriorly. (See F, Fig. 1. PL 3.) The formation of the crescent of distention is similar to that of the valvular crescent. We might suppose a small part of the auricular edge of the yielding wall folded into the ven- tricle, and having a free crescentic margin bounded by a little horn at either end. The left or posterior horn of this little crescent is inserted into the solid wall, near the pulmo-