FRACTURE. 5 attained witliout tlie most deliberate exami- nation. Before the study of particular fractures, there are many general considerations which demand the attention of the practitioner, if he would he prepared to determine readily on the nature and treatment of inaividual cases, as they may be presented to him. We shall, therefore, tirst, in a general way, dwell on the Causes of Fractubes ; their Varieties, Signs and Prognosis, Natural Reparation, and Surgical Treatment. causes of fractures. A knowledge of the causes of fractures seems to be the first natural step towards the dia- gnosis, and right management of them ; and these causes are to be considered according as they are jiredisposing or remote, and efficient or proximate. The first kind may be divided into the local and the general. The local jiredisposing causes.—The super- ficial situation of one bone exposes it more par- ticularly to become fractured from direct vio- lence : whilst a more protected situation leaves another little liable to be acted on but by counterstroke, or by violence communicated through intervening bone. The activity of the hands and lower limbs exposes them both to frequent injuries from without, but the sus- taining duty of the latter subjects them to ad- ditional dangers from sudden and irregular dispositions of the weight of the body. This also applies to the upper extremity, when it is made to support the body, as in falling. The clavicle, both from its site and office, is infi- nitely more liable to fracture than the sca- pula, which is better protected by soft parts, is placed on the back of the thorax, out of the way of injuries, and does not, as the clavicle, form a buttress to sujiport the body, when it alights on the shoulder, or when the elbow or hand is stretched out to break the fall. Sometimes a tumor, on or within a bone, causes pressure and absorption to such an extent that very slight violence or muscular effort completes the division. Of the general predisposing causes of frac- ture, the most certain operates in a similar way to the last named. The formation of cancerous tubercles may produce the absorption of bony niatter in various bones at the same time. In subjects affected, as it is said, with cancerous diathesis, the bones are often much more rich in earthy particles, as well as more slender and porous f Sanson) ; and, in truth, per- sons are liable to fracture from atrojihy, both by the prevalence of tubercle, and by a more simple hypertrophy of medullary tissue. The last is sometimes described as cancerous, when perhaps its nature is widely different. Rickety conditions of the skeleton, in youth or advanced^ ago, may occupy the next place as causes. The precise character of these affections has not been made out, although the accounts render it probable that it is not al- ways the same, but various. Professor Gibson of Philadelphia relates several cases of this kind in his Institutes and Practice of Surgery. In one, occurring in his own practice, fie sajs,—“ The bones of the arm, fore-arm, thigh, and leg, have all been broken repeat- edly, even from so trivial an accident as catching the foot in a fold of carpet, whilst walking across the room. The clavicles have suffered more than any other bone—having been fractured eight times. What is remark- able, the boy has always enjoyed excellent health, and the bones have united without much difficulty, or much deformity.” This patient died at the age of twenty-three, having experienced twenty-four fractures. “ M. Esquirol has in his anatomical collection the skeleton of arachiticfemale,in which nearly all the bones of the limbs and trunk are covered with traces of fractures, more or less conso- lidated : many of them are broken in two, three, or four points of their extent. These fractures, wdiose number reaches above two hundred, appear to have been effected at different epochs, judging from the nature of the various consolidations'.” The skeleton of the chest of an aged female lunatic, softened and deformed, with almost countless fractures of the ribs, as described above, is to be seen in the museum of Guy’s Hospital, and, indeed, such effects of extreme fragility, both in youth and old age, are only to be spoken of as rather uncommon. It is difficult to estimate the precise nature of the dependences of fractures upon different periods of life. Fractures occur at every period of life after the ossification of the bones ; but there are some differences between them, connected with the time of life, worth noting. Strength is the character of the adult bone, flexibility of the infantile, and fragility of the senile. I shall have hereafter occasion to mention the incomplete fractures of the long bones, and the separation of epiphyses from the shafts, as peculiar to the early period of life. Old age is marked by the great frequency of frac- ture of the neck of the thigh-bone. With old age comes atrophy of the bones, and a proportional increase of their saline com- ponents ; both of which changes render them more fragile, and would cause fractures in advanced life to be very frequent indeed, if the bones were exposed to such concussions as they endure with impunity in youth. The general influence of scurvy is tolerably well established. On this subject, “ Leveillc recommends us to peruse Marcellus Donatus; Saviard’s Observations ; Heynede Morbis Os- sium ; Poupart’s Works inserted in the Mem. de I’Acad. des Sciences, 1699: and the trea- tise ])ublished at Verona, in 1761, by Jean de Bona. To these works 1 would add Lord Anson’s Voyage, in which the cficct of iho scurvy in producing the absorption of the ' .1. Clotpict, Diet, de Med. B