]0 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function have been more recently related by Steinbucli* * * §, in the Philadelpliia Journalt, by SundelinJ, by Beyer §, by Dr. Davis of Dublin II, by Dr. Elliston^ by Dr. Ward**, by Dr. Graves ft, (who indeed records two), and, lastly, by Dr. Benson ||. These cases do not appear to me to admit of any tenable objections. The unnatural pulsation was well marked, and well observed; but it is impossible to give a satisfactory account of the events, in this place. One was in a young convalescent fever patient; others occurred during fever, and mostly with petechiae ; and others, again, in more chronic cases, and generally with some thoracic obstruction. In all, there was some degree of vascular excitement. In reviewing these cases, I find no other conclusion admissible, than that the pulse is derived from or through the capillaries. The details and circumstances present some very remarkable features. For the present, however, the facts are only produced to elucidate the sources of accumu- lation in the right ventricle. There are yet some secondary but powerful causes of congestion in the right ventricle, which must be briefly described. l^he Influence of Atmospheric Pressure.—Another source of impulse in the venous current is doubtless seen in the pressure of the atmosphere, at least in those great vessels which open into the chest, and which are emptied more or less by the inspiratory efforts. This action is likewise indirectly aided by the proper valves of the vessels, but not without an especial regard to facilitating the circulation of * Journal der practischen Heilkunde, Sept. 1815. See also tlie Journ. Compl. "t See the Lond. Med. Journ. V. III. p. 361. $ Sundelin in Archiv fiir Medicinische Erfahrung, 1822. See also the Journ. Compl. § A Paper by Beyer of Ohlan, on this subject, in the Journal Compli- mentaire, T. XXI. 1825. II Dublin Hospital Reports, V. 4. II See the last Edition of Blumenbach’s Physiology. ** In the London Med. Gaz. V. 10. In the Dublin Journal of Med. and Chemical Science for Sept. 1834 ±± Ibid. Nov. 1835.