18 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function that its extent and fulness may be very great; they depend on the degree or force of the venous afflux. The left ven- tricle, in death, always retains a small cavity, unless affected by disease. After a single careful examination with the fingers and scalpel, I think it will be impossible for any one to attribute the slightest power of suction (atmospheric exhaustion) to the healthy right ventricle; since more than lialf of its parietes, consisting of a flesliy sheet very little more than two lines in thickness, are expanded over a surface com- paratively unyielding, and always more or less convex*. Indeed, supposing a po-wer of exhaustion to belong to the left ventricle, it is plain that the riglit cavity must be encroached upon, to admit of its dilating operation; for the right ventricle is folded over the left, and in a manner incloses itf. It is very true, that a heart may be seen to contract and dilate when placed in water; and a similar movement may be observed in the fibrous bands of a volun- tary muscle; that is, a distinct contraction succeeded by a partial elongation, and this repeatedly, as I have often wit- nessed in limbs removed by amputation. The butcher makes a transverse division of the central fibres of the panniculus carnosus, and immediately a wude elliptical se- paration of the divided edges takes place; and this persists, yet the fibres are still seen contracting and elongating suc- cessively, after having permanently lost much of their normal length. In every case, a muscle, having acted fully, must require some extraneous force to re-adjust it for the repetition of the same complete action. It can scarcely appear possible even for the left ventricle to be capable of spontaneously expanding with its full natural diastole ; during which diastole it is jialpably soft and loose: else what could be the use of the muscular auricle, and its contractions ? and what would be the use of a densely organized set of veins, the impetus of whose current we know to be fully competent to the dilatation of both auricle * See Diagram 3. PI. 1. -f- In some birds, the right ventricle is wound fully half round that of the left side.