82 FRACTURE. statistics. By the tables of M. Gueretin and Dr. Norris* it is proved that In 26 cases non-union occurred in the humerus ; 13 times above, and 13 below the entrance of the nutritious artery. In 21 cases, non-union occurred in the fe- mur ; 10 times above, and 11 below. In 12 cases, non-union occurred in the fore- arm ; 2 above, and 10 below. In 17 cases, non-union occurred in the leg; 5 times above, and 12 below. It appears, therefore, that M. Gueretin's opinion is set aside as regards the humerus and the femur, while, with respect to the fore- arm and leg, the proportion of cases of non- union, in the different parts of each, does not materially vary from what we should expect from the proportions of ordinary fractures in the same parts ; and as these gentlemen together have collected and compared se- venty-six observations, the question may be regarded as settled The statement, that a fracture separating part of a shaft from the chief medullary artery may induce atrophy of the isolated portion, seems to me still to require new and very careful proof. The able author of this opinion, Mr. B. Curling (see the 20th vol. of the Med. Chir. Transactions) founds it upon a considerable number of specimens, the majo- rity of which I have taken pains to examine, (indeed all that are in the museums of Guy’s and St. Thomas’s Hospitals,) but I have not found any satisfactory grounds for his conclu- sion. The examples are not without appear- ances of atrophy, but they suggest difficulties and objections in the way of arriving at such a conclusion, which will not be readily sur- mounted. The appearance of atrophy has presented itself to me much more evidently without the existence of the supposed cause, and particularly in the parts reported to be most often and evidently affected by that cause, namely, in the lower end of the tibia and femur, and in the upper end of the hume- • M. Gueretin gives an analysis of thirty-five cases, which is much more favourable to his own view than a similar account of fortj'-one cases by Dr. Norris, whom, on the whole, we must suppose to be the more unbiassetl narrator. One discrci>ancy between these gentlemen is very striking. M. Gueretin describes four false joints in the upper third of the tibia, and only two below it; Dr. Norris one in the upper third, and ten below it; which last is certainly tlie most consistent with what I have seen, and with what the common site of fracture in this bone should lead us to expect. , • u • • 2 The view concerning the epiphyses, which origi- nated with M. Berard ( Archives Gendrales, xxxvii. p. 176. 1835) is too limited as evidence of a ctinse. The late rcconsolidation ot the epiphyses of the kneeand caput humeri may admit of other e.xplanations. If the activity of nutrition and growth is determined in pait bv the stress or tension which organs endure, we may well suppose that the hroailer articular surfaces, not supporting such gi-eat or concentrated pressure as the narrower joints, will not evince the most rapid ad- vances towards maturity. The superior cpiphvsis or the tibia, however, is commenced and consolidated before the lower, according to my own recent obsei- vatioiis. rus, and indeed, more or less, in the ends of all long bones. The following are some evident sources of error :—An unequal obli- quity of the section in different parts of the iin-uniteil bones.—The result of deformed union leading to increased and decreased strain on particular parts, and, consequently, to pro- portionate hypertrophy and atrophy in cor- responding parts.—The anastomosis of arte-- ries, which are ever ready to transmit blood to capillaries, whose normal source of supply is obstructed, simply for the reason that, the latter being empty, they become more ready to dilate.—The chief arteries and veins of the epiphysis are, in the main, independent of; those of the shaft, and must furnish assistance w'hen the supply of the latter is cut off.—The common cause of atrophy, next to a general! defect of osseous material in the blood, seems- to be hypertrophy of the soft tissues within i bones, but this, while it induces absorption! and irregular expansion, is attended with some fresh external deposition of bone. The following, also, I consider to be material 1 objections to the theory in question :—The shaft grows mainly by external depositions,. and these are proportionate to the stress im- posed on the part, and to the disposition it' may have to yield to an undue strain in whole, or in part. The natural excavation of the shaft is am advancing process through life, little andi rarely interrupted (perhaps never beyond the ’ middle age) by internal ossification. There does not seem to be any notable defect of' new ossification on the broken part, which is- cut oft' from its medullary artery. It is useful to remark, that the tibia, which’, seems to be the most frequently broken of all 1 the bones of the body, and the most liable to' comminution, open fracture, and the conse-- quent exfoliations, is comparatively free from failure of consolidation, and also that deficientt union, when ft occurs in this bone, is most! amenable to treatment. It may be asserted, independently of our tables, that after severe open fractures of the tibia, the reunion is often; tardy ; but, on the other hand, it is very near- the truth, that, finally, union never fails to be effected, so that a genuine false joint is never: established. Such examples as fig. 35 can-- not be viewed as false joints in a surgical sense, for reasons which are self-evident. Without reference to other kinds of cure, the breadth of the tibia, its superficial site, and the facilities afforded for regulating the opposi- tion of its fragments, sufficiently explain the rarity of non-union ; and these considers-- tions strongly indicate the effects which are ■ to be expected from the existence of opposite circumstances in other bones. Referring to the tables which exhibit the ■ pro])ortional frequency with which fractures- take place in the cylindrical bones, we dis-- cover that a false joint is more likely to suc-- ceed to a fracture of the fore-arm, or of the humerus, than to that of any other long