Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. 17 Tlie functions of the stomach are sufficiently numerous. The first in the order of time seems to he that of a reservoir; and we cannot hut suppose that the supply of hlood to the gastric tunics must he least when they are contracted and devoid of stimuli from without, and vice versd. A full stomach is a source of compression and support to the blood-vessels around, which become comparatively empty with abstinence. Hence the first invigoration derived from food. Tlie absorption of fluids from the stomach may he regarded as the second considerable office of the part. Mr. Bracey Clark, after tying the duodenum of a horse, poured water into the stomach, and several pints were rapidly absorbed. Sir E. Home has recorded similar examples. This kind of supply is, of course, the readiest for the body generally; and while it necessarily produces active circulation, in many cases it is probably often made available to facilitate the secretion of gastric juice, &c. In summer, within a minute or two after drinking, the fluids are oozing out at every superficial pore; and a stimulating fluid best excites the activity of digestion, as it inclines to the reception of food. With regard, in the third place, to chymlfication, I would prefer to describe the left portion of the stomach as ovoid; and the (Esophagus, as opening into it abruptly, and only occasio- nally; and the recent food as more or less sinking into that which has preceded it. Thus, one continued action is, to convey the chyme superficially to the right; which is well seen in the dog recently fed with solid meat, and is only more difficult to establish when the contents remain most fliiid. In the fourth place, considering the mobility of the stomach; the impulses of respiration and circulation, in connexion with its freedom by means of the serous tunic and its varying capacity, are important items to add to its own muscular movement. Pressure and motion most materially affect the gradual propulsion of the contents towards the bowels, as well as the completion of digestion &c. The uses of the secretion I need not refer to again; unless to hint, that protective mucus both dilutes and filters the fluids to be admitted to the absorbent surfaces.