20 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function from which arise all the cords that serve to secure the free edges and ventricular surface of the fixed curtain. These cords are of such a length, as scarcely to allow the curtain to rise into the plane of the oval opening, in the natural play of the valve, and, being destitute of muscular columns, cannot, by any possibility, set the valve in motion, or serve any other purpose than that of preventing too great a reflux of the curtain itself. A second curtain (the anterior) is at- tached at the anterior and right edge of the opening, having one free border forwards and another backwards in the ventricle*. Each border has its proper set of cords:—the anterior or upper set have their insertion into a mere nipple of muscle on the solid wall, in the direction of the pulmo- nary artery; and the inferior or posterior are as invariably collected with numerous others into the summit of a mus- cular column whose base is inserted into the thin right or yielding wall of the ventricle, near its centre; where also is attached, almost as regularly, another muscular band, which stretches across the cavity between the two walls. This band may have an average length of six or seven lines, and a circumference of three or four: it seems calculated to limit distention, and therefore I have called it the moderator band of distention. The third curtain or fold of the valve (the right) is situated on the right side of the aperture posteriorly, and has little or no connection with the inner (left) edge of the oval openingt. In extent and figure, it varies con- siderably ; and it rarely forms one simple scallop, but is frequently fissured so as to form two or three, more or less complete. Its cords are accordingly arranged in two or more sets; the greater part of which are attached by the intervention of muscular columns to the outer or yielding wall, at a considerable distance from the solid wall, and usually without any transverse connecting bridge or moderator hand. Having concluded that all parts of the valve in connection witli the yielding wall of the ventricle are affected by dila- tation, I venture to call them curtains, cords, and columns of distention. The anterior and right curtains, then, are parts of * See (D 1.) Figs. 1 and 2. PI. 1. t Sce (D 2.) Figs. 1 and 2. PI. 1.