DESCRIPTION OF PLATE II. Fig. 1. represents tlie Right Ventricle of the Hare, laid open: the outer curtains (or those of distentioii) are fully displayed, with their cords and columns affixed to the solid wall, and consequently not subject to the move- ments of the yielding wall. The fulness of the cavity, however, may vary considerably; and the excess so far expand the auriculo-ventricular foramen, that the scanty curtains shall close it less completely. Thus the curtains, cords, and columns, here shewn, may still retain the name of curtains ^o. of distention. At the base of the largest and foremost column of distention is seen a slight moderator band, reaching to the yielding wall: in this grada- tion, it is of very little importance, as to size, site, and use. The probe passes from the right auricle, through the tricuspid opening, into the ventri- cle, towards the pulmonary artery. It should be observed, that the letters of this and the third Plate indi- cate precisely the same parts as those in the first. Fig. 2. is a Drawing taken from the Right Ventricle of the Yaguarundi (a feline animal). The curtain of distention is seen, with its cords and columns; but the larger column, the anterior, only seems liable to a slight dis- placement. A limited portion of moderator band attaches it to the solid wall, whilst a slighter and longer part of the band connects it with the yielding wall. The first part allows whatever little motion the last part is able to effect, when the yielding wall suffers distention ; and, in addition, the length of the column renders its proper contractions of importance; whilst its base, more or less connected with yielding wall below, is proportionablyless fixed. Fig. 3. represents the Right Ventricle of a Goat.—Here is seen very pro- minently the moderator band stretching from the solid to the yielding wall: and where it joins the latter, the column (a compound one) of distention arises ; and this is seen to afford attachment to a number of cords, and a wide extent of curtain.—The cavity is shewn rather in a state of contraction than distention. The observer will scarcely fail to be struck with the conclusion, that a column of this kind cannot but produce a very great displacement of the curtains, if it be really true that the cavity is susceptible of much disten- tion. The sheep and some others certainly present a still broader or more compound column ; but in all of these, experiments shew, that, with the least possible disturbance of the circulation in dying, the valve may become totally useless, but that a very few minutes restores its true action, by drawing in the yielding wall, an4 with it the apparatus of distention. Fig. 4. is a Posterior View of the Right Ventricle in the Porpoise. Infe- riorly, the bifurcation of the ventricles is seen, but here somewhat less than I have found it in a recent specimen. Within the cavity, the two shorter columns of distention (D and E) are represented, attached to the thin reticular yielding wall, above and externally. (C) indicates two longer columns, which, in the first gradations, we cnUed fixed ; but they are now become accessory columns of distention, being fully developed, and based rather on the yielding than the solid wall; each one, however, has a partial attachment to the solid wall, which is not here seen. Diagram 1, like those of the preceding Plate, represents a Section of the Right Ventricle; and is intended to illustrate the gradual change of position incident to the columns of distention in a succession of animals.