FRACTURE. ,S7 of fig. 34, may induce the student to remark the breadth of separation of the two frag- ments, and the quantity or mass of bone which is interposed between them. This is an important and striking circumstance, and may one day materially aifect the treatment of fractures : the interposed mass is often the cause of the wide separation of fragments ; and the quantity interposed depends on the activity of the inflammation, its continuance, and the delay of reunion by repeated motions. A very different observation is called for, when a firm lateral union has taken place sub- sequently to the removal of intervening peri- osteum. We have seen that bone, whether denuded by this or more violent means, is near to death, and ready for absorption ; but we have to look a little further for the expla- nation of that process by which the shaft is pierced anew, in order to re-establish one con- tinuous medullary canal, or cancellated tissue. With respect to the alterations in the broken ends, some kinds of non-union ap- proach most nearly to the result of amputa- tion. After the saw or fracture, ossification, &c. may be defective or slow from various causes; and when fracture is attended with much displacement or separation of fragments by the intervention of soft parts or seques- tration of a dead portion, reunion may, not- withstanding abundant ossification, be long or permanently prevented, and we may then say there are two stumps. The remodelling of ossific union is not without interest, as the last step of a series of changes which I presume may be spoken of as both simple and clear. It is the presence of bone in the circulating system which leads to its formation. In proof of this, consider the stag’s horn. The cause, which fixes the precise spots of incipient (foetal) ossification is, I conceive, specific. The event takes place in a solid nidus at a point where many convergent forces or pressures are concen- trated. The continuance of ossification (being, as it were, a columnar growth against gravity) follows a similar rule ; for it is a deposition where pressure is greatest; and whether we regard the order in which the nuclei of all the bones begin, or the order of rapidity with which each one grows, the activity is evi- dently in dependence on the tensions of the parts '. That much depends on tension seems corroborated by the final remark, that when tension is removed from the centre it be- comes absorbed ; and this exjilains the exca- vation of bone, the course of simple atrophy, and the modelling of definitive callus, while it cannot be too strongly enforced that the ’ The form of every bone, and process of bone, and even tlic arranpnncnt of every fibre of rancclliis, seems to me to bo regulated by tlie above principle. To illiistriitc this opinion would l)e bore out of place, tbougb it is a valuable consideration if it ho apidicablo to all other tissues, as I do not doubt it to be. The ten- sions or excitements of a part are equal to its uses and its wants : the supply, in kind, in manner, and in Bite, to the minutest point, is determined by the ten- sions; which tenainns declining, atrophy begins. mere disproportionate weakness of a part loads to augmented nutrition in that part, (if nutritive material fail not,) whether it be membrane, muscle, or bone. It may not be amiss to advert again to the causes which sustain the repairing ossification until it is sufficient. We see injury, pressure, tension of periosteal bands, and almost rub- bing of bones, combine to keep up inffamma- tion, until consolidation prevents all these in- fluences ; for if the uniting medium be so weak as to yield in any manner, there is still cause of fresh inflammation or nutrition. The changes which follow efficient union will be adverted to in another place. For a brief review of this appended chapter I may repeat, 1st, That the periosteum, whe- ther original, or derived from granulation, adhesion, or cicatrization, is the chief source of the reparation, as of the nutrition of bone, and that the original membrane is only in degree more efficient than the adventitious : 2ndly, That, whatever nidus may precede, the ossification goes on beneath periosteum—bone upon bone—till the fragments are cemented by the union of tw’O portions of new bone : 3rdly, The causes of ossification are inflamma- tion, the presence of bone and the existence of the necessary material in the blood: 4thly, Remodelling absorption finally comes into operation, and its cause is that of the declin- ing nutrition, disease, &c. The mode of reparation of divided bone having been explained, there still remain to be considered the natural methods by which the various concomitant injuries of fractures may proceed towards restoration or fatal mis- chief; but for the studj"- of them we must refer the reader to the account of wounds, gangrene, &c., and to the particular fractures most commonly subject to such attendant circumstances. 0.\ THE TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. In speaking of the treatment of fractures in general, what first naturally presents itself to us for consideration, is the proper manner and means of conveying the patient from the place, where he has met with the accident, to the bed, where the methodical reduction of the fracture, and the apjjlication of the apparatus to maintain it, are to be made. This part of the treatment is often, and especially in fractures of the spine, and of the lower extremity, of very great consequence ; but, unfortunately, it rarely falls to the lot of the surgeon to con- duct it. In hospital practice wo frequently meet with cases of bad fracture, which have been conveyed by j)ersons altogether igno- rant of the |)roper precautions, for consider- able distances, on a common cart,—the jolt- ing of which, continually driving the rag- ged fragments, or sj)liutcrs, into the flesh, causes severe suffering to the ])atienf, and must seriously aggravate the inflammation necessarily resulting from the fracture itself. I have lately had under my care a on«p D