8 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. SECT. 3.—ON THE RELATION BETWEEN THE HABITS OF VARIOUS ANIMALS, AND THE PROPORTION OF SAFETY-VALVE FUNCTION POSSESSED BY EACH. Supposing more or less of a safety-valve in a great variety of animals according to their food and habits, it will doubt- less appear desirable to give some consideration to the dif- ferent modes of life which require certain proportions of safety-valve apparatus. I have not thought it my province to make any especial investigation of this subject; and I conceive it will suffice to point out a very few distinct facts, in order rather to explain the nature and value of the in- quiry, than to illustrate the extent of its bearing. It will not therefore be necessary to repeat all that has been for- merly adduced on the subject. The rodentia, devoid of any true safety-valve, have a simple stomach, for the digestion of dry or scanty, and some- times of bitter or stimulating food; and they can scarcely be said to drink. Their circulating fluids are in small quan- tity. The hare, it is true, is capable of severe exertion; but its aversion to move is at times (of repletion probably) so great, that it will allow itself to be taken with the hand: and it is remarkable, that when hurried, as by the chace, it is subject to pulmonary apoplexy; which is a sufficiently striking proof that its want of a safety-valve renders it less fit to endure widely-varying states of fulness in the right side of the heart. Feline animals, and others allied to them, with very little more of safety-valve, are scarcely energetic, except in a state of hunger and diminished circulating fluids; whilst re-. pletion renders them materially incapable. The usual drink of a lion, in this country, is less than a pint in the day; but that of a bull, of equal size and from a similar climate, is about a small pailful. The ruminants have a capacious vascular system and a large digestion. They, too, may need sudden efforts; and I have thought that herding together, and sometimes com- pressing one another’s bodies violently, a sudden afflux must call for the full play of their ample safety-valve very urgently. In reference to many facts and appearances which will pi'esent themselves in opposition to the assumption of strict relation between the habits and the safety-valve of any given