32 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function the escape of the refluent fluid, and the adaptation of the valves is the more distinctly seen. The diameter of the tube of the syringe, in all my experiments, has been rather less than the fourth of an inch, and often still smaller; and that of the piston about four inches. The following notes are parts of the histories of post- mortem examinations, which were taken long after the preceding accounts. They are abstracted with a view to illustrate various opinions and results that have been already stated. Some points of anatomical arrangement are re- corded, with a view to explain both the common and unusual circumstances, as well as to shew what parts most require notice. Remarks are added to some, for the sake of illustra- ting certain effects and peculiarities, which appear to me of essential consequence. In each case, the most fatal and important features of disease are subjoined, in order to shew the nature of the death. I have considered the hearts to be quite healthy, whenever it is not otherwise stated. On the 10th of December, 1835, I made an examination that afforded a remarkable instance of simple distention of the right ventricle from pulmonary obstruction, in a female aged 20. Within three weeks, a chronic pleuritis was fol- lowed by acute inflammatory effusions, both fluid and solid, and in great quantity on the right side of the chest. The lung here was reduced and airless; but its large vessels, as well as those of the left lung, were full of dark blood. The left ventricle seemed rather small, and was empty and contracted, but not very firm: its auricle contained a few drams of coagulating blood. The right side of the heart was immensely distended. The right ventricle, large and rounded, seemed actually capable of containing the left in its cavity. The pulmonary artery was roundly distended; its dark* contents partially appearing through its coats. Here was no disease of the heart—no room for the in- fluence‘*of pulmonary resilience. The obstructed lung, and the force of the venous afflux, were the causes of the extreme distcntion^of the right ventricle. * Tliis was within six hours of the patient’s death.