IIG FRACTURE. sion of the lower portion, yet not so gi'eat as in the cori’esponding' fracture of the radius ; this depression is increased, if not altogether caused, by the contraction of the prrrnator quadratus muscle. The position of the upper portion of the ulna is unaffected bv the acci- dent. Besides the necessary extension, we ai’e told, that the hand should be inclined to the radial side of the fore-arm by the assistant, whilst the muscles and some compress are pressed between the bones, and the apparatus applied as will be directed for the radius, taking care to give due support to the parts of the ulna. Too much separation of the fragments, and non-union (see above), may be produced by everting or abducting the hand, or by increasing the effect of the quad- ratus, with unequal compression before or be- hind. A sling for the whole length of the arm and hand, may generally be used very early. Fractures of the olecranon. — These may happen about the middle, base, or extremity of the process. The middle is most fre- quently fractured, and generally in conse- quence of a blow or fall upon the part; but occasionally, however, from the action of its muscles. Transverse fractures are the most common ; an oblique fracture is only very rarely met with. The separation of the fractured portion from the shaft of the bone, by the tonic action of the triceps muscle, produces an evident interspace at the back of the joint; which is also made greater or smaller on flexing or extending the fore-arm. Disconnecting the triceps from the ulna destroys the voluntary power of ex- tending the limb. Sometimes, in consequence of the expanded insertion of the triceps, the disconnexion is incomplete; and Mr. Earle has related a case where the power of extension was not lost until the sixth day after the acci- dent ; the loss of extension was sudden, and accompanied by a sudden flexion of the fore- arm k Sir A. Cooper has also shown, that the extent of separation of the fragment depends on the degree of laceration of the capsule, and of that portion of ligament which stretches from the inner side of the coronoid process to that of the olecranon. When the biceps and brachialis muscles have no efficient oppo- nents, their action tends to produce a con- stant semiflexed position of the fore-arm. In a natural condition, when the fore-arm is thus half-bent, the condyles of the humerus arc above the level of the olecranon ; but when this part is broken off, it is drawn more or less above the condyles. Motion of the frac- tured portion has no influence on the niain portion of the ulna; crepitus is distinguish- able when the parts are brought together ; and consideral)le pain attends the manipula- tion of the parts. Bony reunion of the olecranon is of rare occurrence ; the new connexion is generally ligamentous, with more or less space between ' Pructiral 01)S. p. 117. the fractured surfaces. Sir A. Coojicr ob- serves, that when the intersjiace is at all considerable, there is mostly one or more openings through this ligamentous .substance, i.e. distinct ligamentous cords; and the arm is found weakened, in proportion as the ligament is long. He considers this substance to be, generally, the necessary and proper bond of reparation in the cases in question, which he further likens, as regards their union, to the fractured neck of the femur. He has seen bony union of the fractured olecranon in the living subject; but the fracture had, in that case, hap|)ened near the shaft of the bone. Mr. Samuel Cooper has witnessed osseous • union between the humerus and the broken olecranon; and we cannot doubt that sufficient • contact and ossific action would constantly* produce a solid union. To obtain a fair juxta-position, the retracted: fragment must be lowered, and the fractured; surface of the ulna raised towards it, by ex-- tending the fore-arm. The opposition of the triceps is to be controlled as much as may be; while we are careful to maintain such a nice adjustment of parts as may most conduce to close, even union. The future free motion of: the joints must not be disregarded. Desault and others have objected to a full! extension of the fore-arm, on the ground thatt the fiactured surfaces are thus made to touch each other at their back part only, leavinfj a i space in front, which, it was said,irregular callus- is apt to occupy, to the prejudice of the joint. By means of a splint along the fore-arm, De-- sault therefore maintained a position between . semifle.xion and extension. Before applying: the splint, however, he proceeded to confine the fractured olecranon ; to this end, the arm, slightly flexed, was bandaged from the wrist to the elbow ; and the folds of skin, or wrin- kles formed at the back of the elbow by the extension of the joint being drawn upwards, lest they should become included between the fractured portions, the olecranon was forcibly pressed downwards to its place, and 1 maintained there by repeated turns of the ■ roller, covering the bend of the elbow in the form of a figure of 8 ; the splint, which was ai strong one, and a little bent before the joint,, was then applied, and the limb rested on a. pillow. Sir A. Cooper’s treatment was to extend the fore-arm, and bring the u|>per portion into > contact with the lower ; he then placed tapes ■ or slips of linen longitudinally on either side ■ of the joint and olecranon, and over these he applied a roller round the arm, close above ■ and below the process, only. The ends of the slips above the fracture were then tied to the cori’osponding ones below, and are made to draw the rollers, under which they pass nearer to each other, and the detached fragment is ex|)ectcd to be regulated by them. A well- padded straight splint is then secured in front of the arm with a bandage kept wet with ^ spirit of wine and water. Sir A. Cooper recommends the splint to