56 Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Mammalia. pulmonary sigmoid valves acted but feebly, and the tri- cuspid closed almost accurately, although the right ventricle was rather large. The heart of an antelope that had been dead several days appeared in good condition. Its right ventricle was firm and of good thickness, but somewhat in a state of fulness or distention. By injection, the three triangular folds formed a plane, with very wide fissures between them. This aperture closed somewhat with more forcible injection; but the escape was rapid, and the walls were too solid, in death, to yield^. The moderator hand was not very long. A zebra died unexpectedly in the night. On the second morning, the heart appeared healthy, and in a medium state of fulness. The pulmonary valves acted well, and the tri- cuspid curtains closed with some nicety. The heart of an ass was removed from the body at the time of death. When injected the following day, its tri- cuspid formed a wide unbroken plane (a very admirable adaptation). At the same time, on passing a finger through the closing valve (the injection being kept up forcibly all the while), the moderator band was felt, long and loose, and capable of admitting as much more fluid as the cavity con- tained. This cavity was of good size; and its wall, both firm and thick, was so consolidated by tonic contraction, as to form the greatest contrast with the living state, after a systole, or at the point of death. The left ventricle and valve were very powerful. On injecting the right ventricle of a cow some hours after the death of the animal, the valve appeared to act almost perfectly; the cavity being, as I supposed, in a state of con- traction. In a second experiment on the heart of a very large ox, about thirty minutes after the creature had been struck down, it was anticipated, from the solidity of the left ven- * The extreme softness and laxity of the yielding wall of the right ven- tricle, in the interval of the systolic efforts, as well as immediately after the last distinct contraction, requires to be contrasted with the firmness which the wall subsequently attains in death, whether suffering under distention or not. When an animal dies, probably no congestion in the healthy heart is capable of preventing a certain degree of tonic contraction, even in the auricles, and much less in the right ventricle.