STOMACH, &C. 46. There are various effects of gastric juice after death on the oesophagus, as well as on the left end of the stomach, which part is the especial source of the acid and digestive secretion. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1842, 43 and 46 ; and Medical Gazette.) In the stomach, &c., after death, wherever gastric fluid touches, the natural aspect of surfaces declines, decreasingly from left to right, including the adjacent oesophagus and duodenum. Injection, erchymosis, discoloration, and solution of mucus and tunics, are thus very precisely determined, both in extent and degree. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, October, 1846.) HERNIA, &c. 47. Most Herniffi exist fifteen or thirty years before serious s’rangulations, which are not attributable to any new state of the sac, but to deteriorated nutritions and powers of vessels, &c,, inci- dent to the age (45 the mean). Hence, also, the peculiar course of the disorder, locally and generally. Prompt surgery and gentle measures, locally and generally, are the grand indications. The ageof serious strangulations less than that of fatal cases. Various statistics prove the like, and the kind of local and visceral changes do also. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, October, 1838. Med. Gaz.,1843.j 48. Persistent diverticulum ilii, discharging at the umbilicus, &c. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1843.) Anal Muscles. (Ibid., No. 11.) STRICTURES, &C. 49. The spasm of urethral stricture is injection and tumefaction ; thickening, contraction, and induration, are results. Mostly there is a combination of these states, one set being essentially variable, the rest permanents and the main treatment should be constitu- tional. 50 The doctrine of variable diseases explains, as it is illustrated by, old prostate disease, which is catarrhal and recurrent. The mean length of stricture (fixed) is full an inch and a half. The bulb is the chief centre. Instruments cause cicatrices, but cannot dilate them perma- nently—why they cannot seal up the canal; statistics of stricture— age—duration—end—sites, &c. Capillary injection (action, &o.) subsiding spontaneously, or with medicine, physiological. (The Nature and Treatment of Urethral Strictures, and Mischiefs of the Sound, four papers. Lancet, 1843-4.) Urinary Obstruction in the Foetus, (Guy’s Hos. Reports, No. 5.) OSSIFICATION, &C. 51. The repair of fracture is like that of grazed bone, or the course of exostosis, or even the mere growth of bone. The main supply of blood is from without, which, in about four or five days, deposits new bone on the old, and finally welds fragments (as dis- tinct bones) together. In the repair of a stump, cancer of bone, or