Digestive Solution of the (Esophagus. 3 when, by the contraction of the abdomen or stomach, the gastric fluid is most driven upwards, less, of course, remains to act on the lining of the stomach, which, being diminished in extent and thicker, is less readily acted on. It is to be remembered, that the unorganized cuticular lining of the oesophagus cannot be reduced to a paste (fausse membrane pultaceeJ, unless by decomposition, or some analo- gous change; yet M. Louis seems willingly to have disregarded this inference. In his first memoire, he describes the paste as a product of a mucous membrane; but does not alter his con- clusion in his second essay, where he admits an epidermis to exist. The testimony, however, which establishes the fact of di- gestive solution of the oesophagus is much stronger; and it may, I conceive, be employed successfully to elucidate the consideration of changes which take place in the stomach. The following examples are of an extreme kind ; and they are, proportionably, the less common. Case 1. Old Catarrh.— Intestinal Fever.—Dissolved (Esophagus. “Dec. 18, 1833.—A servant of all work, aged 19, a well- formed person, has been subject to cough from infancy, yet always enjoyed good health. She has suffered much from chest oppression during the last few months; and three weeks since grew much worse, in consequence of unusual fatigue; but she has only left her place a week. Typhus has deve- loped itself. The head now seems the most affected, and in the second place the chest.” On the 19th, no pressing symptom was remarked; but early on the morning of the 20th she was rapidly carried off. The body was examined nine hours afterwards. There was a moderate effusion in the pia mater, and some injection and cloudy speckling of the arachnoid. The lungs were healthy, or but very slightly too fleshy. There were slight pleuritic adhesions anteriorly, and the right pleura contained a little blackish fluid. The whole of the obtuse edge of the right lung (posteriorly) was destitute of pleura, which had been dissolved to the extent of about