5S Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. before, but with a column of fluid three feet in height. The events were the same as in the former case ; excepting this, that, on pressing in the root of the column of distention, the valve acted more closely, and the cavity filled more tensely. Tliree days afterwards, this valve acted very truly. An experiment was performed on the heart of a horse many hours after death ; and in tliis, the massiveness of the whole warranted the conclusion, that, at least, it was par- tially contracted. The tricuspid acted the part of a pretty accurate and strong valve. A young rein-deer, nearly full grown, was opened on the second day after death, and the heart removed. It seemed large, in comparison with the size of the animal; and its sur- face presented two or tlmee little cysticerci, but it was otherwise quite healthy. The right side was rather loose, and had probably been full. One pulmonary artery being secured, the other was used to receive the injection. The sigmoid valves would re- tain nothing*, and the tricuspid was still more imperfect. T'he valves were all healthy, and the left ventricle powerful. At the conclusion of the investigation of tins safety-valve function in the class Mammalia, it will hardly be necessary to observe, that the simpler action of the right ventricular valve is doubtless nearly perfect in all cases. On the con- trary, I cannot suppose that many experiments will be required to prove, that, in most cases, a very natural and common state of distention may render the valve imperfect; that is, a safety-valve. To establish, experimentally, that certain proportions of this function are dependent on the precise stages disco- verable in the structures concerned, would be impossible; although such a conclusion will pretty naturally follow in the mind of all who shall once have witnessed the different appearances of the valve, under experiment, in two extreme points of the series. Thus, in a set of experiments on dogs, the valve will surely be found more or less perfect; and as surely, in a few varied experiments on sheep or goats, it will be found much less true, though in very diffe- rent degrees. * This occurrence is by no means very uncommon.