7 0 Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Birds. EXPERIIMENTS. A full-grown duck was fed freely with meal-paste, and allowed free access to water. After half an hour, its neck was dislocated. It seemed to struggle a little for about five minutes, and even to breathe imperfectly. The movements had not ceased when the side was opened; and the heart, beating violently, was quickly and easily cut out. The organ was soft, but fluttering actively: the right ventricle was thin, very large, and loose. The auricle was in great part cut away, and a very small pipe fixed in the mouth of the pulmonary artery. Accidentally, a small perforation was made into the ventricle, at the root of the pulmonary artery. The injection of the ventricle was performed slowly; but before it was half full, it was quite manifest that the valve was incapable of closing, in this state of the walls. The fluid (warm water) escaped as fast as it was thrown in. The natural disposition of the valvular crescent, under these cir- cumstances, was exceedingly well shewn : it was quite soft and loose; the middle portion presenting a flat surface to- wards the auricle, and its free edge, directly to the solid wall, without touching it. From this middle point the crescentic edge gradually inclined towards the interior of the ventricle, and at its attachment of distention it was turned from the valvular fissure in the greatest degree. The crescent of distention had a very little appearance of being curved in towards the fissure. Great force was required to fill the ventricle, on account of the narrowness of the pipe, &c.; but, without any degree of distention, the aperture of reflux was extremely wide. The puncture of the ventricle gave passage to a little stream, without otherwise interfering with the experiment, rendering it very difficult to produce a state of distention. A drfike, several years old, had been fed once only, and very scantily, in thirty-six hours. About six hours after the meal, it was poisoned with prussic acid. It struggled very slightly at intervals; and after four minutes, on opening its side, the heart was found beating moderately, and the right ventricle decidedly full. A good deal of delay occurred in affixing a pipe to the pulmonary artery; and the tonic