12 Mr. T. JVilkinson King on the Stomach. tissues are bathed incessantly by capillary currents. The sud- denly obstructed gall-bladder loses all its bile during life, as I have often seen: and with regard to transudations in the left end of the stomach, besides the influence of protective mucus, and a nutrition proportioned to the varying exigencies of the part, there may be a removal (if needed) of transuding fluids by means of the capillary circulations. The occasional production of the gastric-juice is a specific thing. May not the force of the juice be always wholly expended on the food, and on pro- tective mucus, which may often be seen in different stages of digestive softening in one and the same stomach ? And what grounds, I would ask, are there for asserting a peculiar in- herent preservative power, besides simple nutrition, in a part enfeebled, or secretion on an irritated surface, or the like ? The aspect of the two ends of the healthy stomach, to the unassisted eye, sufficiently declares material differences of structure: and I have been informed, by a very competent microscopist—Mr. Quekett, of the College of Surgeons—that minute examination and inspections of the simple stomachs of mammalia abundantly corroborate this distinction. A few significant indications of peculiar function in either half of the stomach might be deduced from pathology. The morbid states of the left half are in a very unsatisfactory state in books; those of the right are compai'atively well known. Of course, for the purpose of the present case, the mucous membrane alone is to be considered. The thickenings, indu- rations, and chronic ulcers of the right portion are, I suppose, never to be matched with any thing in the cul-de-sac. I have met with some evidence as to the source of gastric- juice, through the means of its acid element, which will not be without weight in the minds of many. It was while conversing on the foregoing views—a stomach having been just laid open at a post-mortem inspection—that Mr. Hilton suggested to test the two ends with litmus; and I confess that I thought the experiment in vain, the body having been dead several hours, and there being no evident means by wbich the passage of the contents from one side to another could have been prevented (the parts had been removed from the body); yet it became evident that the acidity was great towards the left end, and but very slight towards the pylorus. This hint induced me to