FRACTURE. 100 been luxated than fractured: under such cir- cumstances, replacement is more easily effected by the mouth. FRACTURES OF THE LOWER JAW. The inferior maxillary bone, which next falls under our notice, differs from the bones already spoken of, in being secured by move- able articulations, and subject to the controul of various powerful muscles ; and it will soon appear, as we anticipated in our general con- siderations, that a due knowledge of the mus- cles is of the utmost service in the investiga- tion and management of the cases of fracture which are affected by them. Here I cannot omit to urge, as an essential principle in the treatment of fractures, the consideration of the attitude of repose, as the first step towards good coaptation wherever muscles are con- cerned. There may be good reasons for de- viating from this position in various cases; but it cannot be denied, that this is the po- sition best calculated to avoid tension of every muscle, and that to deviate from it will proportionately overstrain some muscles. As I shall frequently have occasion to advert to the application of the principle, it seemed right, partially to enforce it. It may be con- sidered as a little surprising that the opinion has not been long and familiarly noticed. The lower jaw, by reason of its mobility, is capable, in some measure, of eluding the effects of violence—of yielding in different directions ; and, but for this, its exposed situa- tion would render it liable to be more fre- quently fractured. The character of the frac- ture in a given case, will have reference to the bone itself, the part broken, and to the surrounding structures. Fractures of the lower jaw-bone must often be prevented by the solidity and toughness of the bone, as well as by its peculiar construc- tion. Their common course is through the horizontal body of the bone ; and this case is usually of the nature of open fracture, if only a tooth be displaced, for there is no efficient membrane in the alveolar cell, to exclude the air from the cavity of the fracture. We shall, however, find many proofs that open fracture is of slight importance, unless the fracture and the cavity produced around are extensive. An important distinction of cases depends on the part broken. The body of the bone, the ascending plate, the neck, the coronoid process, and the symphysis, are liable to frac- tures ; and nearly in the order here stated. Various degrees of obliquity and comminu- tion, and several complications, may occasion- ally attend the fracture of each part. A blow on any part of the bone may cause a fractuie at the precise spot on which it strikes. 1 he coronoid process, notwithstanding its deep and protected situation, has in this way been broken off. Rut it more frequently hapimns, that the impulse takes effect on auotlicr part of the bone ; as when the neck is divided by a Vtlow on the chin, or when lateral pressure fractures some part of the anterior arch. In the situation of the symphysis the bone i< ■ somewhat thicker and stronger, on accoiin • of prominences and the attachment of tin muscle, than it is immediately on either side and, from this circumstance, it follows tha ; the division scarcely ever occurs at the middh point (excepting occasionally in children), bu : at a short distance from it. In this case tin muscles situated between the symphysis o the chin and the os hyoides, not including tin mylo-hyoideus, act only on the larger portion and this will consequently be depressed below the level of the other part. This will, how- ever, be the only deformity, and less in de • gree than when the separation occurs, behino the attachment of the last-mentioned muscle'- In that case, all the depressor muscles of the jaw will draw down the chin, and there wil be no antagonist to the masseter, temporal and pter3'goid muscles on the side of the frae tore. The rising of one part above the othe i will consequently be considerable; in addi tion to which, the pterygoid muscles will teno' to draw both portions towards the centre o the mouth. The displacement produced by :, fracture through the ascending process, i much less than in the preceding case ; and i is, likewise, much more concealed, on accoun of the attachment of the masseter and ptery gold muscles on its opposite sides. It shoult'. also be observed, that as the greater part o the bone remains in one piece, with most O' the muscles attached to it, it is capable O' performing all the motions natural to if' though with less steadiness than in its soum condition ; and hence it is, that the power O' opening and shutting the mouth, and even masticating food, has been preserved in somi • cases. It is scarcely possible to suppose tha the dental nerve and artery, which enter tin posterior maxillary foramen, and traverse th^ body of the bone, can escape from bein;'. stretched, lacerated, or compressed, whert this part is broken through with displacement yet we have the authority of Boyer for say ing, that any serious consequences arisin, . from these causes are of rare occurrence. When the condyle is separated from th > rest of the ascending apophyses, it will b'l drawn inwards and forwards by the externa, pterygoid muscle, without affording to the sui geon the slightest chance of restoring it b any force that can be applied to it. The ii ternal pterygoid muscle will not permit th • ascending process to bo thrown in the oppe • site direction ; but, by drawing the bone iq ■ wards, in combination with the action of th temporal muscle, it will create an overlappin of the fragments, or what we have describe as angular displacement. When the coronoid process is detached, i becomes raised by the temjmral muscle, an leaves no hope of our being able to bring i again into contact with the body of the l)on< The reunion is consequently by ligamcn and the temporal muscle is [iroportionatel enfeebled, but all the others retain due power Wlien the fracture extends through hot