31 in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. I have been accustomed, for some time, to examine the ventricular valves, in the manner described; and I feel at a loss to imagine what kind of pathological history or reason- ing could be credited, relative to the living operation of these parts, without the test of injection. Experiments of this kind, performed upon hearts more or less evidently diseased, produce some results that would lead us to con- clude, that if the theory of a safety-valve in the healthy man be thought groundless, it is still essential to retain some such opinion as to disease; for the very different states in which the right ventricle and its valve are found, in connection (both as to cause and effect) with derangements of conti- nuous parts in the course of the circulation, is already a fruitful subject of investigation. Both the valve of the left and right side may thus be found perfect or imperfect, in an unusual manner, even when we should otherwise be quite unable to decide on their being so, or ready at once to determine differently. The mode of performing the injection has been little varied. Sometimes a longer tube has been carried into the ventricle, in order not to destroy the sigmoid valves. Very frequently the hearts have been placed in water during the experiment, to obviate any unusual pressure : and this is a very convenient method; for the auricles being widely opened, the natural position of the heart serves best to allow have maintained that veins are inelastic. In the dissecting-room, the distinguishing character of a vein is its superior powers of extension and retraction. The longitudinal folds formed by the lining of the empty veins affords a very marked appearance in the leg, especially of the young. To inflate some veins, and then to observe their ready contraction, would convince any one of their elasticity. Other veins, however, as those abotit the spine, possess much less proper elasticity, although they are evidently adapted to receive widely-different quantities of blood. Those in the spinal canal appear to me to be well contrived to become filled when the medullary canal is extended, in the flexions of the trunk, and to let out their contents when the capacity of the elongated cavity is diminished, whether suddenly or not, in resuming the upright posture. This arrangement is still more striking in various inferior animals with flexible spines, and especially in the cetacea. In the seal, a great part of the medulla would appear changed into a slight cauda equina, to make room for those sinuses which occupy at least three- fourths of the canal. A similar formation exists in the porpoise, in front of the medulla; whilst in the seal the sinuses are immediately beneath the arches of the vertebra).