with Inf (fences from the Character of Chanyeableness. 9 at times be applicable: and the same may be said of all the different catarrhs, and many affections of the digestive organs, the skin and nervous system, and even also the circulatory. Although I feel assured that experience must go with me, I fear even this brief enumeration must excite objection: I therefore restrict myself. As to the forms of ague, hectic, epilepsy, tic douloureux, and some others, I shall merely say, that I by no means exclude them; but my desire is now only to maintain the previous considerations. Should it be objected, that it is overstraining the point of distinction to represent one trait of a disease as an isolated or exclusive distinction; I would briefly reply, that I confi- dently expect that a reasonable attention to the whole pro- gress of any set of variable affections will eventually justify this partial course; which, if it require any excuse, does not seem to demand more of me, than to refer the objector, and the learner, who is in need of other knowledge, to those countless works which are at least partial in the exclusion of the present doctrine. It needs scarcely be said, that I ad- vert to the books on diagnosis and ordinary practice. The subjects of our inquiry are not unnaturally arranged in the following plan; although my aim is here to contrast the main differences, rather than to give a list of the varieties. Different Modes in which Diseases appear variable. 1. Many diseases are often seen successively mending and declining for months ; or re-appearing after many months, as struma in the knee, or an ulcer. 2. One affection may be observed in a similar manner alternating with another, whether acute or chronic: and here, also, may be found more or less of restorative interval and sudden decline. Diarrhoea and phthisical catarrh offer a common example. 3. Acute diseases, in their ordinary course, will every now and then be found to grow worse on a sudden, and unexpectedly, and sometimes as it were by successive leaps with or without signs of convalescence: this is seen in rheumatism, fevers, &c. 4. Acute afl'ections are liable to distinct relaps(’s, mostly during the early days of convalescence. Perhaps there arc