FRACTURE. cause the speculations on this subject have hitherto been eminently unfruitful in results possessing any practical value. In this point of view, the single fact asserted by Dupu^’’- tren, that what he calls the definitive callus is not formed till towards the end of the fourth period, or about the fifth month, is worth the whole of them, if it follows, that up to that time we may, by force skilfully applied, restore the natural relations of the fragments, in a fracture in which consolida- tion, with deformity, is very far advanced. What, then, shall we say is the present state of our knowledge on this interesting and important subject ? Even to enable us to conduct further inquiries into it, it is neces- sary that we should have precise ideas on this point. Can we doubt that further investiga- tion of it will bring to light facts of the highest practical value ? At the bottom of the won- derful process by which callus is produced, and a fracture repaired, there is clear evidence of the agency of a superintending Intelli- gence. Paley has produced no more cogent proof of the existence of a designing Mind, in the adaptation of the mechanism of the most finished organ to its function, than is to be found in the repair of a fracture, of the exist- ence of intelligence, design, and benevolence, to put the spring, that first moves in the pro- cess, into motion. The first stage in the formation of callus that falls under the cognizance of our senses, is the removal, by absorption, of the serum and red particles of the blood poured out from the ruptured vessels. Its lymph re- mains, and has soon added to it lymph effused by all the vessels around the fracture. In this lymph there are quickly generated nu- tritious secerning and absorbent vessels, to the actions of which, all the changes of the callus arc to be attributed. During all this time a slow and continual change in the organi- zation and vital properties of the nutrient vessels must of necessity take place, enabling them, first, to substitute a fibro-cartilaginous substance for the lymph removed by the ab- sorbents ; and then, in like manner, cartilage in the stead of the fibro-cartilagc ; and, lastly, bone instead of the cartilage. At this stage of the process, the secerning vessels of the callus must be endowed with properties iden- tical with those of the original bone, and these they permanently retain. Thus from the beginning to the end of the process, the condition of the callus, and therefore of the vessels which secrete it, is in a constant flux. I cannot admit the doctrine of Dupuytren respecting the existence of two kinds of !f' which Dupuytren chiefly relics in founding the distinction be- 1 holievo, upon the difhculty which nature experiences in briim- ing the nutrient arteries of the old bone, and of the callus, to deposit new particles so close to one another as to be within the sphere of cohesive attraction—a difficully she no less experiences in bringing about bony anky- losis in joints stripped of their cartilages. This difficulty mastered, the old bone and the callus are perfectly continuous ; and much of the latter may now be removed by the mo- delling powers of the absorbents, without pre- judice to the strength of the bone. The su- perfluous callus, which thus admits of being removed, is the provisional ; and that which is of necessity retained, is the definitive callus of Dupuytren. I do not believe them to differ in any other respect. APPENDIX, ON THE REUNION OF BONE U The foregoing history of the reunion of frac- ture, as it is commonly taught, is doubtless, in the main correct; it demands, however, con- siderable modifications, and even additions ; and it may not, therefore, appear unreason- able to introduce, in the form of an appendix, a series of facts which are naturally supple- mentary to the preceding, although a rigo- rously systematic account should, I think, in- corporate the two views in one. I can claim but little on the score of origi- nality beyond the pretension of having placed the facts about to be detailed in just relation to each other ; but I hope that these opinions will form an useful and even necessary addition to the matter in hand ; and that they will render the reunion of fracture, in a theoretical and practical point of view, more simple, uniform, and complete, than it has hitherto been made to appear. There is one palpable, universal, and forci- ble objection to the accounts of reunion, and of callus, as detailed by all experimenters on ani- mals ; namely, that the soft bond of union in man is not found to bear any proportion to that in animals ; and even the new bone is comparatively scanty after the fracture of human bones. To reason, therefore, from experiment directly to practice is in itself fallacious ; and the casual observations to be derived from the appearances of bony repa- ration in man will alike corroborate this as- sertion, and clear uj) our views both of the theory and treatment of the subject in hand. it will be my object to show, that the repa- ration of bone, however modified, is one pro- cess, ever the same in kind ; whether after mere contusion, amputation, simple fracture, or open fracture, or in connexion with necro- sis. All enquirers must perceive that the history of callus,contracting in amass, around the severed ends of a bone, is inconsistent with what is known of many cases, besides those of open or compound fracture. For cxaiiqile, the fkeorcliccd callus is not seen where coa])tation is altogether prevented, or where a broken end, being very much dis- placed, is o|)posed to an unbroken surface of bone (sec fig. 1), where the cranium is fis- sured, or cancellated bone divided, or where ' The I'hlitor hopcB that this additional exposition of the repair of IVaetiires, hy Mr. T. Wilkinson King, will not need an apidogy.