FRACTURE. 145 the tumefaction of the joint, which quickly follows from extravasation of blood, and se- cretion of synovia, arc diagnostic of the seat of injury; time only will be requisite to deter- mine whether the tendon, the bone, or the ligament be divided. In cases of longitudinal fracture, the diagnosis must depend on the tact of the finger; since, except from the effects of pain, there is no impediment to motion. The want of bony union, so often observable in transverse fractures of the patella, is prin- cipally owing to want of due contact of the fragments during the process of reparation. A second cause of non-union is found in the circumstance of the articular surface being devoid of active periosteum*; and a third cause which I vvould refer to, is the cancella- ted nature of the bone, or rather the thinness of its shell, and consequent inactivity of its i periosteum. Sir Charles Bell justly considers, i that the sudden division of the bone by the f muscles, compared with the contusion and effu- Ision which direct violence create, is little conducive to, or rather obstructive of, ossific inflammation at the precise points where it might be available. He regards bony union ! 1 as most likely to follow a simjtliB blow. ' I do not think the supposltiftti, that the pa- tella is of itself indisposed'to fresh ossifica- ! tions, is at all well founded. When its carti- ' lage has been removed by ulceration, it very readily becomes ankylosed with the femur; when its anterior face is pressed upon by tu- mors, it speedily becomes the seat of exos- tosis ; and after fracture, the broken surfaces generally become well covered in by bony shell. In the museum of Hunter is the patella of 1 a large animal, with a considerable exostosis on its anterior and inferior part; and one, of a man, covered with spicular exostoses, from p»eriostitis. There is a similar specimen in , Guy’s museum. There is an interesting spe- icimen of reparation of the patella in the mu- seum of King’s College. The bone is com- 1 minuted, with but little displacement of the 1 fragments and the fissures are partially filled (with little masses of new spongy ossification, rl may also revert to the case related at page 2(il of this volume; but the bony reunion cljf longitudinal fractures, and occasionally of ■4;ransverse fractures, sufficiently establish the , act, that there is no especial defect of ossific f!i uHammation. It will ultimately appear why f he callus is scanty or partial. After longitudinal fractures of the patella, •oony union most frequently takes i)lace ; but vhen, as occasionally happens, a small [)arr, is separated laterally from the rest of the muscle, ji ligamentous union occurs. Sir A. Cooper I elates, that in a case of transverse fracture, ju which the lower fragment was also split ongitndinally, the transverse division was re- ' laired by ligament, and the latter by bone. I ' I?,.,“r 7'"^ fmicoid tumour, (dcRiril ago 201 of lIuH volume) in tlio unlcllii, the fun: " f new hone houciUli tl.e rurlilnge was not t •'iTested. Notwithstanding the prevalent idea of the rarity of osseous union of a fractured patella, there are still occasional expressions con- cerning the inconveniences of superabundant callus projecting into the joint, especially if the parts of the fractured bone be kept toge- ther. We have shown, when speaking of callus, that the cartilage, precluding as it does the existence of periosteum, renders this fear imaginarj^; and a case has never been ad- duced to render it more reasonable, or to make the event seem possible. (See p. 320.) The disadvantages of an interspace between the two connected fragments,—such as the difficulty of w'alking over unequal ground, or up stdep ascents, seem generally proportion- ate to the length of the ligamentous substance found between them, to the loss of the pulley or leverage, and to the consequent imperfect adaptation of the extensors. This again is likely to be great in proportion as the subject of the i'jury may have passed the period of development. The principal indications in the treatment of transverse fractures are to relax the ex- tensor muscles, and to maintain the fractured surfaces as closely as possible together. These chiefly depend on the judicious position of the limb, aided by some mechanical assistance. According to the generality of wTiters, exten- sion of the leg, flexion of the thigh upon the pelvis, and a well adjusted compression of the extensors of the knee, by a roller, seem best to fulfil the first indication. The com- monly received notion, that a careful applica- tion of rollers subdues the action of muscles should not be disregarded, although it w'ould certainly seem to bo a very secondary, or even a doubtful resource. The object of the flexion of the hip is to relax the rectus femoris muscle. It is also considered essential that the body should be so raised, that the trunk may form nearly a right angle with the thigh, by which means tho rectus may become completely relaxed. A right position of limb very much favours approximation of the fragments, but the second indication, that of maintaining them in tho closest possible apposition, is only to bo effected by pressing the upper portion of the bone towards the lower, and so securing it, by tho continued pressure of a bandage or other a]>- paratus. Caro should of course bo taken not to |)iuch or confine the skin botvvoon tho por- tions of bone in fixing such apjiaratus. There are no objections to tho softest bed ; and, provided tho hij) be kept well flexed, the change of posture which may be obtaiueil by alternately raising tho leg and tho shoulders still more, will alford very welcome relief. It will require very little contrivance to adapt an inclined plane to the back, and another to the extended limb, which shall move toge- ther as one piece for this jmrpose. Tho whole leg is to rest on a straight excavated and well-jiaddod spliid, and tho heel is to bo raised very high. Before, however, ajiplying any bandage to