r FRACTURE. wliich the muscles and other parts are gra- dually enabled to adapt themselves to the ne\v order of things is deserving of much attention. Sir Everard Home relates (Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, vol. i. page 41) that “ a negro, about thirty years of ago, having had his arm broken above the elbow-joint, the two portions of the os humeri were un- fortunately not reduced into their places, but remained in the state in which they were left by the accident, till the bony union had taken place ; so that when the man recovered, the injured bone, from the position in which the fractured parts were left, was shortened almost one-half of its length. From this cir- cumstance the biceps flexor cubiti muscle, which bends the fore-arm, was so much longer than the distance between its origin and insertion, that in the most contracted state it could scarcely bring itself into a straight line: the muscle, however, in time, as the arm recovered strength, adapted itself to the change of circumstances by becoming shorter, so as to correspond to the diminished length of the bone; and by acquiring a new con- traction in this shortened state, it was en- abled to bend the fore-arm. “ Some years after this accident the person died, and the circumstance above-mentioned being known, the parts were examined with particular attention. The biceps muscles of both arms were carefully dissected out, and being measured, the one was found to be eleven inches long, the other only five ; so that the muscle of the fractured arm had lost six inches, which is more than half of its original length, as is distinctly shown in the preparation.” “ The causes ' of non-union after fracture, are either constitutional, or local. Among the constitutional causes, the existence syphilis in the system is generally looked upon as being suHicient to retard, or altogether to pre- vent, the process of union after fractures. Numerous instances, in which this has been the apparent cause, might be cited from the old writers. Among the moderns, M. Sanson is one of those who lay most stress upon it. ‘ I have twice,’ says he, ‘ had occasion to observe the marked influence of syphilis in retarding consolidation. One of the cases was a fracture of the leg, which was not (inn after eight months’ em])loyment of the ordi- nary means of treatment. The other was a fracture of the humerus, which was not united after eighteen months, except by a soft and flexible substance. In both these cases, un- equivocal proofs existed of concomitant syphi- litic affections, and after an anti-syphilitic treatment of two months was employed, con- solidation took place.’ (Diet, do Med. et Ciiir. Prat. iii. p. 402.) Rcrard (Des Causes qui emjjcchent ou retardent la Consolidation ' Conceniin;; tlic c.iii8e8 of non-union, the reader Will have little reason to complain of our oinployinjr the words of Dr. Norris, wiio Ims devoted liiinself most |)atientfy and suceesstully to (lie literature of his sub- jeet. des Fractures, et des moyens de I’obtenir.— These, Paris, 1833) mentions the case of a simple fracture of the leg, observed by M. Nicod, in which there was no union after nine months of treatment, w'hen syphilitic symp- toms being discovered, the patient was placed under a mercurial course, and conso- lidation took place. An instance was related to the Academy of Medicine of Paris, by M. Beulac, (.lourn. de Med. Chir. et Pharm. in 40 vols. tom. XXV. p. 216) of a fracture that had existed two months, where the consolida- tion w'as retarded by syphilis, under which the patient laboured, and at the same sitting several members stated like facts. The fol- lowing case, in which want of union seemed owing to the existence of syphilis, has been obligingly communicated to me by Dr. Con- die. On the 28th of August, 1828, J. Rowen, set. 48, fractured both bones of the left fore- arm, some inches above the wrist, by a fall from a hay-loft. A few' hours subsequent to the accident the bones were properly reduced, and the arm put in splints. He was a man of dissipated habits, and had been since his 21st year repeatedly under treatment in hospitals for syphilis. At the time of his accident, he was labouring under ulceration of the throat, nodes, and cutaneous blotches, and his gums and breath exhibited indications of mercurial action. The Lisbon diet drink, and a nou- rishing diet, were ordered, in addition to ex- ercise in the open air. On the 30th of Sep- tember, no attempt at union having taken place, Dr. Physick saw the patient, but sug- gested no change in the treatment. On the 22d of November, eighty'-five days after the occurrence of the accident, when the patient was last seen, no union was perceptible. Op- posed to these statements, however, the great experience of M. Lagneau (Expose des Symp. de la Mai. Venerienne, p. 523 ; Paris, 1818,) may be quoted, w'ho mentions that he has witnessed numerous examples of fractures, in which union took place promptly, notwith- standing the existence of constitutional syphi- lis. Oppenheim (On False .Toints, in Zeit- schrift fiir die gesammte Medicin, No. 5, May 1837), too, avers, that he has observed various cases, in wdiich general syphilis being present, fractures united exceedingly well, and is inclined totally to discard the snspicion that syphilis in any way retards the union of broken bones. M. Bcrard, after numerous researches, sums uj) his opinion in the follow- ing language (Op. citat. p. 11) : ‘ Despite the numerous occasions in which surgeons have witnessed the co-existence of syphilis with fractures, it has been very rarely ])roved that the syphylitic virus exercises any influence upon the formation of callus.’ “ Pregnancy, and suckling, are stated in most of our treatises also at times to retard, or prevent, firm union from taking place after fracture. “ As a general rule, it may be said that these states do not interfere with the occur- rence of bony union. Of fifty-six cases exa- mined by Mr. Atnesbury (On*Fractures, 2nd