Mr. King's Case of Disease in the Foetus. 6 Now, it is of course sufficiently well known, that all the consequences of urinary obstruction which have been re- lated above also occur in adult persons; but, in reflecting upon the instance before me, there appear to be some peculiarities highly deserving of notice. I shall advert to them according to the order in which.they may be sup- posed to have arisen, as to time. We cannot doubt that a certain secretion is effected in these cavities during foetal life: hence, the importance of an urachus, and its appendages, in certain animals. At the same time, we may observe, that the absence of any notable urachus on tliis occasion seems to indicate its small impor- tance, or rather it implies a totally different arrangement in the human economy. The appearances which I have detailed would imply an exceedingly slow process of accumulation. The yielding, togetlier with the thickening, which had taken place in the urinary passages must have required a very considerable time in which to become completed: the nature of the opening of extravasation is also perfectly characteristic of a gradual change : and the same applies to the Case which was dissected by Mr. Cock.* The result is closely analogous • In the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. XIX., Dr. Robert Lee has presented some facts resembling the present history, in order to illus- trate the function of the kidneys before birth. His Paper consists, First, of the history of a child born at the eighth month; with a double hare-lip ; clubbed feet; and an enlarged abdomen, in consequence of obstruction in the ureters, and of accumulation in the renal pelves (to the amount of ^iv. on one side, and ^ix. on the other) of a fluid, which Dr. Prout decided to be of an urinary nature, to contain lithic acid, and to have a specific gravity of about 1.012. In the Second place, it is related, that pure liquor amnii, drawn off at the sixth month, was of a straw colour, sp. g. 1.010, neither acid nor alkaline, and devoid of any trace of urine or uric acid. Thirdly, Mr. Howship’s Case is introduced.—A male was born alive at the eighth month, and died in a few hours. It had distorted feet, and im- perforate anus. A quarter of an inch of the urethra, near the bladder, was impervious. The bladder contained seven or eight ounces of clear limpid urine; and its coats were extraordinarily thick, but had yielded posteriorly, so as to form a pouch. The ureters were as large as the finger, attenuated and contorted ; and the kidneys resembled a congeries of small hydatids, no larger tlian garden-peas, loosely connected together by cellular membrane. There was no visible remain of, nor any a])pearance at all resembling, tlie natural structure of the kidneys ; yet, from considering the ajipcarance, it was