rRACTUllE. 69 If it be necessary, I would entreat the reader to pursue the study of non-union, as an essential illustration, and corroboration, of all the main doctrines concerning: the course and treatment of fracture. I am the more anxious to urge these views upon his attention, in order that he may be the more forcibly convinced of the truth of the pre- vious statements relating to the repair of bone. The varieties of non-union may be said to be four. 1. In the first place the fragments may be united by a soft callus, which does not very evidently differ from the usual formation, e.xcepting that the new ossification on the surface of either end of the fracture is absent, or in part deficient. This state often appears to be merely one of tardy ossification, since it yields to a careful perseverance in common measures. The cases formerly de- scribed in which motion rather excites abundant ossification and yet retards union, must be so readily cured by rest, as to be in- admissible as instances of false joint, except for this —that circumstances may lead to the arrest of all inflammation, when atro- phy maj' commence be- fore union is secured, and the case is then to be re- ferred to the third class, or perhaps to the fourth, of which we are about to speak. 2. In the second and most common class of A thin section of the humerus illustrating circumstances of tardy and scanty union : a, is a detached frag- ment in which very little alteration has taken place ; the fissure above is still unoccupied by organized mat- ter : 6, c, are partial formaiions of new bone^ and the wide interspace of the fragments between them is filled by a ligamentous union. Here ice see want of contact, want of ossification., and the effect of motion in forming ligament; we cannot imagine however, hut that a little care might have sufficed to cause Itony union, while we must admit that neglect should be expected to peipetuate the ligamentous union. cases, some ossification has roughly closed or nearly closed the medullary openings of the two fragments, as after amputation. Their ends are also rounded and coated with a periosteum ; and between them is extended a ligament, which varies in length, and massiveness, in different instances. The ligamentous band is usually one thick cord, but sometimes it is divided into two or more bands. Its flex- ibility is great, unless when very short. 3. In a third series, reparation is remark- ably delicient, the only bond of union being a cellular tissue, and the principal change in the fragments one of atrophy. As the re- paired stump-bone, so also an isolated broken F Fig. 32.