FRACTURE. 10 ing of the limb. The common character of the fracture of a shaft is obliquity and raggedness ; and rarer traits are fissures and the separation of several fragments constitut- ing simple comminuted fracture. Fractures in a longitudinal direction are of rare occurrence. Their existence has been denied by such high authorities as Boyer, Petit, and Louis ; but it appears to me to be quite unreasonable to deny the possibility of a fracture in any direc- tion ; and, in point of fact, gun-shot fractures have not unfrequentlj' this direction. The accompanying figures (3), from the Patho- logic Chirurgicale of J. Cloquet, give ex- amples of longitudinal fracture, the one caused by a fall from the roof of a house, the other by a musket ball. It sometimes happens that a fourth or a fifth of the length of the tibia above its middle is detached by transverse fractures, and di- vided by a longitudinal rent; and the same kind of injury is in a manner proper to the femur, between its middle and the trochanter minor. Fig. 6. The upper half of the osfemoris, in which a double, transverse, and a lon<)ittidinal fracture have occurred and been repaired. The upper broken end ha^ been drawn forward, causing considerable deformity. 7 he bony union is only aliundant where needed, and where there ivas some contact of bones or continuity of pvn- osteal buTuls, and not where the inj^mniatoiy tfrn~ sion must have been greatest, namely in the wide longi- tudinal fissures.—Museum of St. Thomas's Ifospilal. We have in part explained the occurrence of longitudinal fractures at the inferior end of the tibia, femur, and humerus. An Austrian at Marengo was struck by a ball on the lower third of the tibia ; he walked several miles, but was obliged to undergo amputation above the knee. The impression of the ball was distinct, and from it ran ob- lique fissures, and one longitudinal, dividing the bone to near its upper expansion h Longitudinal fractures are caused more par- ticularly by bullet wounds, but not necessarily so. It cannot be very profitable to inquire whpther a perfectly simple or uncomplicated fissure can take place in the solid shafts. There is a form or method of displacement in the longitudinal direction known by the name of impacted fracture—one broken extre- mity being driven into that which is opposed to it. The spongy end of a long bone may yield to the thrust of its broken shaft, and such are almost the only examples of impacted fracture. The attendant deformity, and short- ening of the limb, are necessarily limited, and often very slight. Impacted fracture, which may be attended with fissures, is a kind of complication of com- plete fracture, since a part must be exten- sively detached from its natural solid connex- ions, and thrust to some distance between elastic layers or fibres of bone, and be grasped by them, to constitute a truly impacted frac- ture. Fig. 7. Fig. 7 is a diagram representing the inner section of the infenor end of the tibia. There is a fracture, impacted and attended with rotatory displacement, by reason of which a long point is seen drivcti into • the cancelli below and only a short one above. There was not more than half an inch of actual shortening of the Hmb. At the base of the inner nuilleolus is seen a sini])le fissure, which e.rtended about two vtches up ' LcTcille.