Mr. King on the Safetij-Valve Function of the Heart. 7 By I'eference to a few other circumstances, however, the probable importance of these observations may be made more evident. Man, submitted to a vegetable diet, especially if the nutri- tion be of a little-concentrated character, will pretty surely obtain a more copious circulation, and less of muscular firm- ness : and supposing no peculiarity, as of climate, to counter- vail these tendencies, we should look for rather strongly- marked indications of different habits in various races; and, I conceive, we ought to find every organ manifesting its share of modification, if we were able to appreciate the change. I conclude plainly, that, with certain limitations, the fuller and slower pulse of a copious, unstimulating diet brings man physically nearer to the state of the ruminants, and vice versd. I do not mean that the pulse depends on the safety-valve essentially for its frequency: the altered nutrition and ac- tivity of the left side of the heart may suffice to account for its accelerated or retarded motion. But this I would ask: Is it not a curious and useful object of consideration, if it be true, that the safety-valve continues to correspond with these incidental changes of habit (if I may so speak) ? as it cer- tainly does in the permanent states of animals which may be employed to represent the casual conditions of the human body. The answer may be, that remedial and other aims may do without these views; but still it is possible that those aims shall be rendered both surer and safer, by a due regard to these reflections. It seems to me, that in our reflections on the relation be- tween diflerent kinds of food and states of the heart, of either side or of both sides, we may advance clearly towards a practical knowledge of the susceptibilities of the great organ, both as a whole and a complex organ. I think, too, that the causes of a rapid and firm pulse are the causes of a declining safety-valve; and that the latter is indicated by the firmer and harder pulse. It may not be easy to make these opinions practical; and certainly they are unworthy of the attention of any one, who has not made himself familiar with the details of the theory of the safety-valve. I should not have introduced them without some conviction that, with caution, it may be well applied to the consideration of diathesis and the rise of diseases.