Mr. King un Disorders which are Variable; 8 combination of restorative action and relapse which is to guide the practitioner in the detection of variable diseases, and in every step of their proper treatment. A brief remark may serve to point out the relation of malignant diseases to our present subject. I think that we cannot say they return, when removed; but that, correctly speaking, they are rather continued, than renewed. The disease may appear in a part adjoining, or in a more distant organ; and we may admit, for the present*, that, whether in one part or the whole frame, its progress exhibits only diffe- rent degrees of rapidity. Sometimes it may be quiescent; but the inclination towards repair seems almost or altogether deficient. Occasionally, an acceleration seems to take the place of a relapse. Still, however, death mostly occurs by an acute inflammation, superadded on the wasted body; as a phlebitis obstructing a necessary current, or a watery bron- chitis, &c., as we saw in many variable or chronic affections. The sum of the foregoing reflections on Variable Diseases is this;—They are to be distinguished by a more or less dilatory and devious course: and all which are here treated of, are, at least in kind, not necessarily fatal; though one or another instance may seem difficult of controul, and even intractable. These diseases are susceptible of arrest and reparation, often spontaneously; but for the most part easily relapsing; and liable to return, when cured. These, in different degrees, are the main characteristics of all variable diseases; which, when arranged together for the advantages of comparison, will be found to throw light upon each other: and I have been led to suppose that the rise, pro- gress, and treatment of the whole series, however various, will hereby be reasonably illustrated. The common occurrence of different variable affections renders it needless for me to particularize them very care- fully. They cannot be difficult of detection. Inflammations and fevers will every now and then afford instances, and likewise a majority of painful affections. There seems to be no form of struma to which the term variable may not * The truth seems to demand some reserve, even here: what is granted is for the sake of illustration by contrast, rather than for the purpose of a settled distinction; as may yet be shewn.