Mr. 7\ Wilkinson King on the Stomach. ^5 The storaach was large, and healthy. The left end, to the extent of a palm, was of a dull greyish hue, very thin and soft, and the centre was almost perfoi'ated. Next to this digested part was a wide, circular tract of mucous membrane, partially coated with ragged, flocculent, and softened mucus. The rest of the stomach—the larger half presented internally a healthy, pinkish, granular surface, defended by a firm, thin, adhesive, and opaquish mucus. The lower half of the oesophagus was considerably denuded of its cuticle; a ring of which, however, remained at the cardia entire; but even this was softened. The contents of the sto- mach were copious, dai*k, reddish, grey debris; watery, and acid. When washed, the left half of the stomach only was acid. After being again well washed and spread out, and sprinkled with litmus-cuttings, it was set aside for twenty-four hours; when the acid re-action was complete over the digested surface, slightly evident over the adjacent tract, but altogether wanting over the right half of the stomach. Once more washed and treated as before, tbe digested end only evinced acidity. Case 7. Jan. 28, 1842.—Ann B., between 30 and 40 years of age, was tapped for the relief of ovarian dropsy. Peritonitis and vomiting brought on the fatal issue in eight or nine days. Examined thirty-six hours after death. The stomach was contracted. It contained everywhere a little bilious fluid, which scarcely acted on litmus. The sur- faces, after being washed and sprinkled with litmus-cuttings, shewed no re-action, excepting slightly in the cul-de-sac, after half an hour. This was the only change visible at the end of twenty-four hours. Case 8. Feb. 1, 1842.—Mary F., aged 54, was carried oflf with gene- ral dropsy, indurated kidneys and liver, and a recurrent bron- chial attack. The stomach was examined four hours after death. It contained but little, and was acid at all parts; but, after being well washed under the water-cock, and set aside (sprinkled with litmus-cuttings) for twenty-four hours, no part evinced acidity.