FRACTURE. 102 apparatus of rctcniioii, and in a grood measure, secure <lie patient from dislurljing infiuenccs. The same relation of parts ma_y subscquenlly be maintained, if necessary, with less confine- ment. There is no kind of fracture in which relaxation of muscles is more evidently useful than in fracture of the body of the jaw with great displacement. In open fractures of the maxilla, the indications of treatment, as far as regards the adjustment and maintenance of the bones, is the same as when there is no wound. If there be loose and detached splin- ters or fragments, these should be removed, provided it can be done with gentleness, and without increasing that injury which it is intended to alleviate. The wound should then be closed, and, if external, covered with a piece of lint, provided its appearance justifies the expectation, that union by adhesion may be produced. If, how’ever, there appear to be too much contusion to admit of this, a bread and water poultice, to w'hich Liq. Plumb, subacet. dil. may be added, is a good application. This may be retained by the four-tailed bandage in the manner already described. Precise rules cannot be laid down for the proper time of changing the dressings, either in the simple or open fractures. No pos- sible advantage can arise from disturbing the dressings, so long as the bones remain in apposition, and the patient is at ease. No further interference is needed if the surgeon can be assured of this. It is, however, proper to be daily assured of this, and to rectify any displacement as soon as it occurs. Fractures of the jaw are said to be united at the end of four weeks; and solidly, after thirty-five days. These may be taken as the average periods for adults ; but in different individuals, and in those of various ages, there wfill be consider- able differences in this respect. Instances have occurred, where, from the adaptation of the broken portions of bone not being steadily .secured, and perhaps from some unknown peculiarity of constitution, or from disease, the fracture has never been repaired by bone. In general, how'ever, as the bone is well sup- plied with blood, the production of a bony union is readily effected. It may happen, that the want of sufficient contact, at a certain period of the reparation, is the cause of ligamentous union,—the broken surfaces becoming each coated with an adven- titious periosteum, and the intervening space filled by contracted cellular membrane, which motion and stretching convert into ligament. In such a case, a seton or tent between the fragments, wide enough to excite periostitis on both, would lead to the growth and inos- culation of bone, on each side of the irritating body. The two parts once united, if only by a point, w'onld not again separate, unless from a constitutional cause, or the taking of mer- cury. 'I'lie fracture of this false union would 1)0 the cause of its growing stronger, as woidd also every slight yielding until perfectly strong. A separation of the two rami at the sym- physis, in early life, is a very rare accident. It is in all respects equal to a diastasis. In' after life fracture at this precise part is still; more rare. The diagnosis and treatment ol these injuries is unattended by difficulty. FRACTURES OF THE LARYNX. These injuries demand a place in the genera - category of fractures, although the records o:! surgery are almost destitute of accounts o1>- them. Fractures of the os hpoidcs.—The fracture of the os hyoi'des is exceedingly rare, evi- - dently on account of its protected situation though its mobility and elasticity are access- ary safeguards. A compression, resembling.- that of strangulation, and the pressure of the • fingers and thumb against the two sides of the - bone, have produced this accident h Pain difficulty of speech and deglutition, inability .- to protrude the tongue, and tumefaction, arc - attendant symptoms ; but these belong also tc ' general injuries. The finger deep in the mouth may distinguish the fracture, and ever i the fact of its being open or simple. In one case in which the patient felt the giving way of the bone, the right ramus was- divided and retracted. In another case the fracture was on the left side, the tongue^ drawn to the right, and the fragment wa.‘i- advanced. The finger at the base of the tongue did not cause pain, but thrusting back> the tongue produced distress. The parts are to be as nearly adjusted by the two fore-fingers as the case will admit- The mouth is to be kept as much closed a; ■ possible, and the head forwards. An oeso-.- phagus-tube passed through the nares, anc i there retained, has been found useful for the' easy administration of food. Enemata become important resources, as a means of nutritionii, where distress is excited by food in tin. pharynx. Contusions, inflammations, ane oven cerebral congestion being present, mae ■ demand active treatment. The osseous basis of the thyroid cartilage though late in its development, is a genuino bone, and very unlike the earthy infiltratim' of the cartilages of the ribs. The bone w(-- arc speaking of possesses a thin shell, witl' scanty and delicate reticulations for its can celli. Its origin, and the progress of its forma tion, its diseases, injuries, and reparative ef forts, are strictly those of bone. In these re spects it is most analogous to the patella am sternum ; and although the chief importanci of its injuries relates to the air tube, (witl which w'c shall consider them,) it is ncccssar'-; to set (lowm the fracture, as well as the nccro sis, of the thyroid cartilage, as belonging to tin lesions of true bone. As in many other cases the less that is done to diagnose the injury or to remedy it, the better ; though it may lx readily understood that a fracture might cause such obstruction as to require immediate ope ration, to prevent asphy'xia. ' I.alcsqne, .Tonrnnl Itcbdoinad., 1!W3. Aubrrpr Ucviic AlBifiralp, lli.V).