FRACTURE. 8^ l)one, and that non-iinion results with greater proportionate frequency in the thigli, than the leg. We cannot but compare the false joint of the ulna occurring after fracture, just above the attachment of the pronator quadratus.with the ligamentous union of the broken coronoid process of the ulna, and with that of the pa- tella when fractured transversely. A review of the natural process of reunion of bone, as already detailed, and the consi- deration of the constitutional and local causes which occasionally prevent or counteract the repair of a fracture, do not, I think, leave much to be desired in the way of practical knowledge, although it will be very desirable for the surgeon to distinguish the influences which are to be combated, as well as to dis- cern the indications of what may favour re- union in any particular case. There are the strongest grounds for concluding that general states of debility chiefly impede, whilst vigor- ous health favours repair. The effects of many diseases, of pregnancy, suckling, diets, and a hard campaign,have also been fairly established, and all objections to these are but very par- tial arguments. On the other hand, the sa- lutary agency of tonic measures is, generally speaking, certain. It is true that open and I long suppurating fracture does not prevent final reunion ; but if, having endured so much, the patient regains strength, we cannot ac- cuse his constitution of being defective, though ossific union should be wanting. So old age is in a manner a proof of vigour. Again, liga- mentous union is a peculiar defect, but also in a minor degree a peculiarity in excess. Of all the local obstructions to reunion, the most constant and palpable is deficient ossifi- cation, and next to this is defective coapta- tion. Sir B. Brodie states that he has often endeavoured to prevent the union of fractures in animals by repeatedly moving the parts, but without success ; and indeed, as I have frequently seen, the ossification has been aug- mented, until the new mass almost precludes motion. This fact has been already in part explained; but how can the obstructive opera- tion of motion, which we know sometimes takes place, be explained? Does motion ever arrest inflammation, or even retard it ? Every degree and kind of re]>air betokens sotne in- flammation or additional nutrition; and the ligamenlom union, which is by far the most common, is both a proof of increased nutrition, and of nutrition excited by motion and ten- sion (pressure, extension, &c.); for ligament is never produced without tension, is always formed in some proportion to the tensions which act upon it, and declines, in the course of weeks, as tension is removed from it. From all that I have been able to learn from personal examination of many specimens of non-union of broken long bones, and of many others, I should set it down as certain, that where there is not much displacement, no causes are adequate to prevent reunion, cx- I cejit those which prevent the formation of new bone. I do not mean that no new bone is formed, for usually each fragment is scantily or partially encrusted with new ossi- fication ; but I mean that deficiency is always apparent, and sometimes a total absence of new bone, or even great atrophy of the old. When a moderate quantity of new bone roughens the un-united fragments, it would seem that the prevalence of ligament is a material impediment, and the want of appo- sition and attrition, which are causes of in- flammation, are conducive in a secondary degree to the imperfection of repair. It has been already shown that a fracture is, every now and then, followed by excessive inflammation, and abnormal effusions of fluids, or solids ; and it is equally certain, on the other hand, that the inflammatory results may not be excited or kept up to the degree neces- sary forthe due consolidation of the fragments. An instance of un-united fracture is men- tioned by Mr. Samuel Cooper (Dictionary, Ed. 1838, p. 551), which occurred in a strong and robust man, whose chief peculiarity seemed to be his indifference to pain, where the ends of the humerus w’ere cut down to, turned out, and sawn off by Mr. Long, in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, and the limb was afterwards put in splints, and taken the greatest care of; but no union followed. He also notices another case of a broken tibia and fibula, occurring in a subject who w'as a com- plete instance of hypochondriasis, which re- mained disunited for about four months ; but afterwards grew together. M. Sanson (Diet, de Med. et Chir. Prat. iii. p. 494) cites three cases of fractures, one of the leg and tw'o of the thigh, that required from five to ten months of treatment before union was perfect; and two cases of false joints in the thigh, in which it was impossible to attribute this state of things to any appreciable cause. Latta states, that he had met with three instances of fractures purely transverse, in which, notwithstanding all the care that could be taken, no callus w'as formed (System of Surgery, iii. p. 362). Ruysch and Van Sw’ieten have reported several like fiicts, and other cases might readily be brought forward. Writers, of good ex|)erience, have been too forward in imputing pseudarthrosis to motion, or neglect. A thousand cases of fracture were treated in the Pennsylvania hos- pital, and no case of non-union occurred amongst them during a period of )en years ; but thirteen examjjles were brought in for treatment. Notwithstanding this. Dr. Norris, who records these facts, justly remains in doubt concerning the mischievous effects of motion in the majority of cases. He knew that, by common reckoning, a thousand cases of fracture need not j)roducc one of non- union (in long bones), and he knew too well the arguments against the mischief of motion, to (latter himself and condemn others on such feeble grounds. It is observable, that fractures of the ribs and clavicle are peculiarly liable to con-