FRACTURE. GO not prevented by an equivalent counter- extension, has been long since universally recognized ; and now, the one is never put in practice without the other. The following general rules for the application of the extend- ing and counter-extending forces, are laid down by Boyer, with the judgment and prac- tical skill for which the writings of that excel- lent surgeon are remarkable. 1. To avoid compressing the muscles that pass over the place of the fracture, and the elongation of which is necessary to restore to the limb the length it has lost by the gliding of the frag- ments one upon another. 2. To make the extending and counter-extending forces bear on surfaces as extensive as possible. 3. To cause the powers that keep up the permanent extension to act according to the direction of the axis of the broken bone. 4. To apply the permanent extension, as much as possible, in a slow, gradual manner, and so that it shall be performed almost insensibly. 5. Finally, to protect the parts upon which the forces of extension and counter-extension act, and to render uniform the compression exercised by the lacs, and other parts of the bandage, or of the apparatus of which we make use. There are cases in which the irritability of the muscles that cause the shortening of the limb is so great, that in spite of every precau- tion to enable the patient to bear the con- tinued extension, we find ourselves obliged, in consequence of the severity of the pain it occasions, or of the impending excoriation or ulceration of the soft parts on which the forces principally act, to remove the bandages that effect the extension, or at least to dimi- nish the force we employ, so that it is no longer capable of maintaining the natural length of the limb. In all such cases, the best step we can take is, to place the limb in a semiflexed position, and then to apply the force of extension that such a position, and the irritability of the parts will admit of. When the fracture is accompanied by luxation, and this complication has taken place in a hinge-joint, the reduction of the dislocation can generally be accomplished with little difficulty, and should be effected immediately before the reduction of the frac- ture. When the dislocation has occurred in one of the ball and socket joints, the case is of a much more serious nature ; because it is generally impossible to reduce the dislocation, either at the time of the accident or after- wards, and the complete displacement of the luxated fragment renders it very difficult to procure the consolidation of the fracture without deformity. I have remarked already, that if this frsigrncnt be sufficiently long to enable us to make use of any considerable force, we should use every effort to reduce the dislocation immediately. If we fail in our attem))ts to effect this, or if we are deterred by the shortness of the fragment from making any, then we must resort to them, with the frac- ture supportetl by short splints, as soon as the callus has acquired sufficient firmness to resist a force, that will afford a chance of effecting the reduction. In simple dislocations w'hich have been left unreduced for some weeks after their occurrence, and in which the attempt at reduction is so much more likely to be successful than in those complicated with frac- ture, we know the difficulty or impossibility of replacing the dislocated bone. In all frac- tures in the neighbourhood of joints, the liga- ments and other soft parts around them acquire a rigidity, during the confinement of the patient, more especially if the fracture be above the joint, which occasions stiffness of the joint, that sometimes remains for a con- siderable length of time after the cure of the fracture. This circumstance must add to the difficult}’ of reducing dislocations complicated with fracture, which we fail to reduce at the time of the accident. The chance of success, therefore, in cases of this sort, is exceedingly small; but, of course, the attempt should be made in every case, and with every precau- tion that can favour the attainment of our object. When a portion of bone, protruded in an open fracture, has been so stripped of periosteum, and otherwise injured, that it w'ill probably lose its vitality, we should remove it with the saw before performing coaptation. When the patient is much advanced in years, or, from any cause, emaciated and debilitated, the surgeon must be on the w'atch to prevent the occurrence of sloughing, ulceration, or excoriation, over the sacrum, and at the points where the extending and counter-extending bands make pressure. This accident some- times endangers the life of the patient at the very time that the consolidation of the frac- ture is making satisfactory progress ; and it is the more necessary for the surgeon to be watchful, as sloughing may actually occur, in consequence of the insensibility of the patient, with little or no complaint on his part. In all cases of this kind, the surgeon should, therefore, himself examine occasionally the parts liable to this accident ; and if he finds the skin ruffled or red, he should bathe the part with camphorated spirit, protect it with soap-plaister, and take immediate steps to remove or diminish the pressure the part has to bear, which is the cause of the whole mis- chief. For this purpose, we may, in some cases, change the posture of the patient, as from the back to the side. When the case does not admit of this, we introduce under the tender part a circular cushion with an opening in the middle, which is made to cor- respond to that part, so that it no longer bears the pressure of the weight of the body. Air-cushions of the same form are used for this purpose, but their constant leakage makes them inconvenient. In all cases of this kind that admit of the application of the starched bandage, tlie use of it is attended with the greatest benefit. When the patient is too weak to move about or sit up, it enables us to cliange his posture, in bed,at pleasure ; or to lay him on the water-bed, a most ingc-