3 to be considered. The heat, the pulse, and the want of safety- valve, seem to maintain pretty equal proportions. Heat depends on many different functions, not on one. We discover five influ- ences from cold which affect the course of health, disease and remedies, specifically. States of the nerves, congestions, delay of functions, reaction (irregular) diathesis, fever, wasting irritation. (Influences of Cold, Med. Gaz., June, 1843.) 13. Five effects of Heat. In delicate health easy play of the functions needful. Exciting the superficial functions of the body tends to lessen nutrition and secretion within. We may dissect the influence of warm-bath, clothing, and the course of sudden relapses. Many cases beiiefitted by warmth, others oppressed. (Influences of Heat, ibid., July, 1843.) 14. Warmth liberates vital and chemical functions. Warm climates excite the surface most, abstract internal stimulus ; hence, internal diseases are less frequent and more rapid, whether fatal or not, and great injuries are better repaired. Infants, the aged, and delicate, and those who have lost half a viscus, much safer in warm countries. (See Climate, with reference to Health and Disease, Prov. Med. Journ., July, 1843.) 15. The Capillaries furnish all nutrition and secretion, the nature of which depends much on the blood, which varies conti- nually, consistently with health, the essence of disease, or the means of recovery. Many nervous fallacies. The blood regu- lates absorption, or arrests secretion, and balances the functions after perversions. (Vide Humoralism of Therapeutics, ibid., De- cember, 1843.) 16. The nature and treatment of toothache are explained by reference to its causes, the variable state of capillaries, and their correlating and compensatory acts. The effects of drinks, pos- ture, temperatures, inflammatory relapse, the time of digestion, abstinence, depletion, and of remedies,—locally, or through the blood, or through the nerves (P). (Vide Common Toothache, as illustrative of General Principles in Pathology and Therapeutics, Med. Gaz., Jan., 1842.) NERVE-FUNCTIONS AND DISORDERS. SYMPATHY, 17. The vessels of the Head most delicate, and least distended. The face influenced by exposures. Hence many peculiarities in head diseases. Hacmorrhagies are atrophies, and so variable lupu.s, &c.; yet all normal nutritions arc equal. (Practical lie- flections, ibid., Nov., 1844.) 18. The sensibility of viscera little or none. Headache often (P only) external. Lesions of sensitive brain tracts are referred to the peripheral distributions of the several nerves. (Seat and Import of Headache, ibid., December, 1844.) 19. Aura, numbness and pain, in considerable variety, hemi- phlegic or not, with injury, hysteria, chorea, e])ilepsy, apoplexy, or palsy, depend on lesions of sensitive nerve-tiacts in the hemis-