FRACTURE. () callus of old fractures, and a disjunction of the fragments, is very curiously exemijlitied.” — S. Cooper’s Surg. Diet. The effects of gout and syphilis in facili- tating fracture fire uncertain, although a variety of facts are adduced by authors. “ These facts,” says Sanson, “ are real, but is it to the action of syphilis on the bone, or to that of mercury which had been taken for a long time by all the individuals whose cases are recorded, that we should attribute fracture ? ” The answer probably is, that the osseous sys- tem, like the rest of the body, is more or less prone to atrophy under the influence of all debilitating causes. Poisons, medicines, dis- use, are certain predisposing causes of frac- ture, and even wasting of the cutaneous and other coverings. The fact, that influences opposite to the above are opposed to fracture, is well known, and corroborates the foregoing remarks. The form and proportions of the skeleton may favour or impede fracture. A man with a delicate skeleton falls on his head, and symptoms of cerebral oppression follow. The prognosis is more serious than in the case of a stout bony person. Undue de- velopment of muscle, while it produces frac- ture, or assists to produce it, is also a grave cause of the displacement of fragments and difficulties in treatment. Severe cold has been spoken of as a general predisposing cause ; but the greater fre- quency of falls, and the hardness of the ground, sufficiently account for the greater number of fractures that take place in frosty weather, without supposing that cold has any specific effect in producing fragility of the bones. The efficient causes of fracture are internal or external. Muscular action is the only internal efficient cause. It occasionally rup- tures the patella, and rarely the olecranon, the os calcis, and even some other bones, as the humerus and femur; although, if we ex- clude the doubtful cases which are recorded, and those in which some disease had pro- bably induced unnatural fragility, the long bones should scarcely be mentioned as liable to spontaneous fracture. Spasms, epilepsy, throwing a stone, and sudden effort to regain the equilibrium of the body, are recorded as having induced fractures of the thigh-bone, the tibia, or the humerus. A furious maniac, con- fined in a chair at Charenton, threw his head violently forwards, and produced separation between the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, with fracture, and died in thirty-six hours '. Far the greatest number of fractures are the result of external efficient causes. These act directly or indirectly. The passage of a wag- gon-wheel over a limb, a violent blow, a fall from a scaffold on any hard body, are, in the first instance, direct external efficient causes. The external efficient cause is indirect-w\\cn it acts at a distance from the point at vvhich the fracture takes place. Sujrpose a fall on the ' Gaz. Meil. Nov. 27, IfJ'tl. elbow to result in a fracture of the hu- merus in any part of its length. The re- sistance of the ground acting at one extremity of the bone, and the falling body at the other, tend to bend it beyond what its elasticity admits of, and it yields at some point more or less distant from those at which the force and resistance are applied. In this, or any similar case, the external efficient cause is said to be indirect. The fracture is generally of a more serious nature when the cause acts directly than when it acts indirectly; because, in the former case, the fracture is necessarily complicated by contusion or laceration of the investing soft parts. Another variety may occur, combining an external with an internal cause, the latter acting passivelv. .This case is not of very uncommon occur- rence at the ankle-joint, in cases of dislo- cation with fracture. The external vio- lence acts through the ligaments, which, in- stead of yielding, tear off the malleoli into which they are inserted; and thus they are passive causes of fracture. A very sin- gular case of this nature occurred in the Richmond hospital, under the care of Dr. Hutton, three or four years ago. A young man, of about twenty-five years of age, was thrown to the ground with great violence, in wrestling. On rising he found himself unable to walk from pain in the knee. The joint and limb, for some distance above and below, quickly swelled, and became excessively painful. High fever, with great constitutional disturb- ance, and frequent starting of the limb at night, soon set in ; and the patient died in about three weeks; symptoms of intense pleuro- pneumonia on the side of the injury, and of the same affection commencing on the other, having preceded death a few days. The joint was found full of pus, with flakes of lymph ; the synovial membrane was of a bright scarlet ; and a portion of the spine and articulating surfaces of the tibia, nearly as lai’ge as a crown piece, was found torn from the head of the bone, and adhering to the anterior crucial ligament. The preparation is in the Museum of the Richmond hospital, and a drawing of it has been published by Mr. Adams in the article ‘Knee-joint’ of the Cyclopmdia of Anatomy. VARIETIES OF FRACTURES. It has been customary, after the manner of the French, to speak in this place of the dif- ferences of fractures ; and it will not require much reflexion to show that our general con- siderations should include a concise arrange- ment and account of all the varieties of frac- ture. The proper or systematic place for such an exposition would probably be imme- diately jireceding the history of particuhir fractures ; and, indeed, this is the order to be recommended for tlie student. The varieties of fractures noticed by dif- ferent writers are very numerous. I shall dwell chiefly iijion those which are ol interest or importance in practice. It will be useful