Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function 30 no labour, in the present state of science, probably, would enable us to attain a knowledge of the exact degrees of reflux by this incomplete valve. With respect to the operation of the tricuspid valve in the living man, it will be difficult to furnish more satisfactory data than have been already produced*. A variety of circumstances, however, remain to be stated, in connection with the same kind of experiments performed on the heart in diflFerent states of health and disease; which will be best introduced by reference to particular cases. It is remarkable, that, in post-mortem examinations of the heart, it has not occurred to pathologists to test the action of the valves by means of injection. If it should be ad- vanced, that the test could not be considered as conclusive, it would probably be a sufficient reply, to produce the facts of the widely-varying results: but to do this, beyond a very limited extent, would be inadmissible in this place f. ^ If any one were inclined to infer, that whatever reflnx occurs hy the tricuspid or safety-valve should be manifested by the pulsation of the jugu- lar veins, I would observe, that such is not to be expected as a common result, and for the following reasons: The over-distended ventricle has lost something of its power — the accumulation within it is a material source of increased resistance—the imperfect systole is partly expended in sending blood to the lungs—and the refluent overplus is driven into the capacious auricle, and scarcely less capacious cavee : in which, when any diastole is produced, it should not be very remarkable, and, of course, the dilatation of the superficial jugulars would be less forcible; these vessels being still more remote, and much assisted in transmitting their contents by the forces of gravity and inspiration, and by the play of considerable valves. All these circumstances tend to preserve the circulation of the brain and senses, &c. Most physiologists must be aware how mysteriously the older vivisectors regarded the pulses of the abdominal cava. It is not very difiicult to understand, that when distention has subverted the action of the jugular valves, the refluent pulse becomes so exaggerated as to be both seen and felt. It scarcely needs to be explained, that when, from an increased distention, the jugular valves cease to act, the refluent pulse in the neck is manifest enough. It should, however, be remembered, that a reclining posture and the intervals of inspirations render the pulsation more remarkable. The valves form no obstruction to the filling of the jugulars by injection. •f The great and variable capacity of the venous system, in certain parts of the body, appears to render it peculiarly adapted to the purposes of a reservoir, under circumstances of delay or repletion ; and the deficiency of valves favours this view. It is surprising that physiologists should ever have