5 Mr.Kin(js Case of Disease in the Foetus. may be said to have been much hypertophied. The lining membrane did not appear materially changed, in other re- spects. The general figure of the sac was globular, with a little cell reaching into the prostate, as if it were the commencement of an urethra. Beyond this there was no excretory canal. The penis was perhaps rather small, but seemed otherwise well shaped. A perforation was found a little behind the summit of the bladder, around which the vesical tunics were very much reduced, as if by absorption from the pressure of distention. This ruptured opening of communication from the bladder into the peritoneum was a simple fissure, rather less than half an inch in length; and its margins were extremely thin. The ureters were enlarged, chiefly inferiorly, and much beyond the capacity of these canals in the adult. They were tortuous, and somewhat thickened. Their vesical termina- tions were more natural. The kidneys were small, and somewhat lobular, and not materially affected by pressure within. The rectum and anus were well formed: the large intestines contained but little meconium. The testes were somewhat flattened, loose, and slight: they were situated within the internal abdominal rings. The spleen and sto- mach were small. The supra-renal bodies, and the contents of the chest, were fairly developed. There are some remarks which naturally arise out of the consideration of the preceding case, but which it will not be necessary to do more than advert to at this time. I have supposed that cases more or less resembling the above may prove to be not very uncommon: at least, I should rather anticipate that dissections more frequently performed may bring to light frequent analogous instances. The present case seems to have been protracted to a late stage of disease, and one that woulc^ be very remarkable in the adult. My friends, Dr. Hodgkin and Mr. Edward Cock, have informed me of the case of a foetus, which they examined together some years back, in which there was a similar dilatation of the bladder, from accumulation.