43 ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM attribute it to the fact that our needles and fingers were not rendered aseptic. In yet another case, although there was no external haemorrhage, considerable subcutaneous ecchymosis occurred. The pressure of the finger tips on the little punctures had not been sufficiently firm and prolonged to prevent the blood flowing from the orifices in the sac, or rather probably the pressure had been badly directed, because I endeavour to make the needle tracks somewhat valvular, and it is necessary to cover with the finger not only the external orifice but also the estimated situation of the internal. But I have had neither external haemorrhage nor inflam- mation of the sac, because I have insulated with vulcanite the needles where they lie in the textures, and have avoided touching anything but blood with the exposed points. Only one risk ought with such precautions to attend these operations. In two of my cases of aortic aneurism death by internal haemorrhage occurred within a week after the opera- tion. In one the opening took place into the pleura, in the other into the trachea. I do not know that the treatment and death are to be regarded as cause and effect, but it seems not improbable that the strengthening of the wall in one direction may have thrown greater pressure upon other points already little able to resist it. But the great safety of the operation would be of com- paratively little importance if the character of the blood products, as I have described them, should prevent electrolysis from having a permanent or satisfactory result, and it must be confessed that there is a tendency for its benefits to be merely temporary. In short, in rendering the operation absolutely safe, is it possible that I have in large measure taken away its curative power? Plainly, if its value depends on the power of galvanism to coagulate the blood, it cannot be so, because by taking away the pain of the operation I have been able to apply stronger currents over a much longer time than former operations. Moreover, from some of the cases to which I shall presently refer, it is evident that much good may be done by this coagulum pure and simple. But, on the other hand, it must be confessed that some of the