CLASSIFICATION OF ULCERS 70 of inflammation. In every inflammation, formative and destructive actions are struggling together. When it attacks a bone you see necrotic, carious, sclerotic, osteophytic, and other processes more or less prominent, and sometimes all together. It is precisely so in an ulcer of the soft parts, and so people speak of an ulcer with excessive or defective action, or again divide them into the Weak, the Callous, the Inflamed, and the Phagedenic. It has always seemed to me that for general purposes that is a very good division, and at least the words, weak, and callous, and inflamed are too firmly established to be up- rooted even if we so desire. I show you a specimen of each. The great pale oedematous granulations and “blae” edges seem to me well expressed by the word “weak,” and in like manner the word “ callous ” conveys very well to the mind the thick-edged sore and solid-looking leg in which there is a strong but perpetually frustrated effort to heal. When the destructive processes predominate, and the pain, heat, redness, and swelling are in evidence, the “ inflamed ” is the natural name. But then you must remember that these are types, and that the modifications and comminglings are infinite. They must be used only as types, and not even as types are they inclusive of all forms. There are certainly ulcers which you cannot include under any or all of them, even from a phenomenal or inflammatory point of view. Let me illustrate. Take first the type of types, the healing sore. Under our modern antiseptic dressings we have discovered two modifications. The first is that creamy, laudable pus is not a necessity. You may get what has been called healing under a crust, and you may artificially prepare a crust for the ulcer to heal under. A ver}^ pretty experiment may be made in this way in cases in which it is necessary to apply the actual cautery. If you prepare the part properly, and cover it with flexible collodion or celloidin, or such like, and keep it at rest, at the end of a certain time >^ou will find the sore healed, and over it a tiny, shrivelled representative of the destroyed textures, or, perhaps, none at all. Just as w ith a killed portion of bone the surroundings may eat it up