164 WOUND TREATMENT WITHOUT THE SPRAY contact with the wound should be absolutely pure. With the necessary precautions for this purpose surgeons are familiar, as well as with the importance of attention to the minutest detail. What is needed in the laboratory to keep a beaker of fluid or a gelatine dish aseptic is needed also for a wound. A little matter, but not without its importance, is the surgeon’s comfort in this respect. Strong solutions of antiseptics injure the skin of the hands and interfere with the delicacy of touch. I have, on the whole, found it most satisfactory to wash first with a solution of carbonate of soda, and then smear the hands with a solution of carbolic acid in glycerine. The glycerine preserves the skin soft and pliable. But given the well-known precautions as to hands, instru- ments, patient’s skin, etc., we have also to consider how best to protect the wound from atmospheric contamination. This resolves itself into two periods, viz., during and after the operation. There is reason to believe that during the operation the chances of contamination are comparatively small. On a surface three inches in diameter there will sometimes no germ light in fifteen minutes, and to be certain of a successful cultivation about twenty minutes’ exposure of such a surface is necessary. Now, healthy tissue forms, in some respects, an unsuitable soil for the growth of organisms. I have often thought that we might regard the constituents of the human body much in the same light as Darwin regarded living things in general. There is a survival of the fittest, a choking off of the weakest. Every tissue is always trying to enlarge its boundaries, and their territories are settled by a tme balance of power. Disturb the balance by strengthening one, or weakening another, and the territorial limit is altered accordingly. The history of tumour growths, of grafting, whether of skin or bone or malignant disease, is an illustra- tion of the law. The eating up of dead bone, of blood, of catgut, of sponge, is yet another example. And so, whether or not, when microbia are brought in contact with the interior of the human body, they will increase or die, must depend on their relative vital power. If, on the one hand.