156 GERMS AND THE SPRAY was necessary to render them aseptic, and that in that time at least half the fluid had evaporated. VVe began with an exposure of one minute, and gradually increased the duration to forty-five minutes, with the following result:— Thirty-eight flasks were exposed under the spray, of which seven became putrescent; thirty-seven (one being spilled) were exposed without the spray, of which nine became putrescent This is, of course, an unfavourable result for the spray. It might be, however, that some of the failures on both sides, comparatively few as they were, arose from manipulative defect. Thus the incubation period in some of them we found was not sufficiently long, because we subse- quently met with one beaker in which cloudiness did not arise till it had been kept for four days in the incubator. Now we had been content with two days’ incubation, and in some with only one. In several cases the same beakers had been used twice, and although the two sides were in all cases kept strictly parallel, it was unsafe to draw absolute deductions. It would only become a satisfactory experiment when we reached the period of exposure when putrefaction invariably ensued if the spray were not used. But with these small beakers this could hardly be reached without introducing other errors from the absence of personal super- vision. Thus one of them was exposed without spray for periods of forty-five, fifty, and fifteen minutes on successive days without losing its perfect clearness. It was necessary to use larger tumblers. Beakers two inches in diameter and three inches in depth were exposed for periods of twenty, twenty-five, and thirty minutes. Of five under the spray one became septic; of four without the spray one also putrefied. Seven beakers 2^ inches in diameter were exposed for the same periods with and without the spray. On both sides two remained clear and five became cloudy. We were approach- ing now a more accurate period of exposure. Beakers 3} inches in diameter were procured. But we were now con- fronted with a difficulty which had been gradually increasing with the size of the beaker. We found it almost impossible by prolonged boiling to render the contents of a vessel of this