CLASSIFICATION OF ULCERS 72 and cell, and you remember the analogy of sarcoma. The whole of surgery is summed up in an ulcer. By an analysis such as this, by thoughts such as thc.se, you are at once thrown back for practical purposes upon a study of causes and a classification by etiology, and it becomes evident to you further that the explanation of superficial ap- pearances which we have been classifying do not exhaust the etiology of an ulcer. Let us, for example, take this very common ulcer of the leg. You see that in the main you may class it as a callous ulcer, by its thickened edges and surround- ings, and its smooth base, but that at one part it has become inflamed and sloughy. Now, empirically, we know that such an ulcer is special to the lower third of the leg. The ana- tomical conditions of the limb, the thinness and tension of its soft parts, the pressure of the circulation, especially the diffi- culties of its backward flow in the erect posture, impede the healing of a breach of surface. Exposure to friction and septicity complete the condition. Nature is perpetually making an effort to heal it by throwing an increased supply of blood to the part, but the retrograde circulation being in- sufficient, there is immediately a tendency to oedema, to lymph formation, and the piling up of effete material. Granu- lations strive to form, but are as quickly destroyed by organic and mechanical irritants ; and a smooth base or an active in- flammation will indicate the degree to which these have been allowed to act. This, then, may very well be called the ulcer of the leg. Indeed, as a means of diagnosis, it is useful always to remember that if a sore is found above the middle of the leg, it is not due to the causes we have just been dis- cussing. It may be constitutional or local, but it is no longer an ulcer of the leg. But the converse is by no means always true. Doubtless, in every case, the circumstances of the lower third of the leg produce a modification in appearances, but there is nothing to prevent whatever may cause an ulcer elsewhere being here also operative. Now in this special case there is one other condition which has been even more effective than those we have mentioned, which, in fact, has determined the ulcer. You will observe that the brawny leg is eczematous, that from the ankle for a considerable distance