TREATMENT OE FRESH WOUNDS 143 through putrid sinuses, the others through fresh surfaces. These last were healed absolutely when the dressing was taken off for the first time three weeks after operation. As sometimes occurs, however, the general health of the patient having become temporarily disordered, I think by continued discharge from the ankle, ulceration of the cicatrix to a slight extent occurred in both three or four weeks after they had healed. 4. R. S., ast. 18, admitted 20th March 1881.—Syme’s amputation at the ankle. This case, already referred to as being delayed by Neuber’s drainage-tube, was only dressed once at the end of a fortnight. 5. J. P., set. 38, a patient of Dr T. Balfour. —Excision of the mamma was performed for scirrhus. The wound was found absolutely healed when it was dressed after ten days. 6. G. B , £et. 15, admitted ist February.—Amputation at the upper third of the arm for injury. It had been caught between the rollers of a printing-machine. Examined in three weeks, it was found absolutely healed, with the excep- tion of a surface about the size of a pea, where plainly a portion of bruised skin had sloughed. In another week that also had closed. 7. M. P., aet. 46, admitted 28th February 1882.—Amputa- tion at the wrist-joint was performed for gangrene of the hand from obstruction of the brachial artery. It was examined in fourteen days, because she felt “ as if there were discharge in the dressing.” There was none. It had all but healed, and was absolutely united when we saw it again in another fortnight. 8. A. B., aet. 16.—Amputation of the foot for injury was performed by Syme’s method, 19th November. The stump was dressed the same evening, and a drainage-tube which had been inserted was removed. It was not again looked at till the 21st day, when it was found healed. 9. Mrs E. W., St. 46.— Excision of the mamma for scirrhus was performed 12th May. It was dressed next day, on account of slight oozing through the dressing. It was found healed at next inspection on 26th May, and she went back to Shetland 30th May.