ANGIOMA i6 ever, on the part both of patient and surgeon. Much time and care must be expended The difficulty is to bring about a cure without destroying also the skin in which the vessels reside, and so leaving a mark at least as disfiguring as the njevus itself. So far as I can see, our only chance is to bring about a dermatitis severe enough to lead to obliteration of the vessels, but not to produce ulceration. One attack of dermatitis, moreover, is rarely successful, unless the nsevus be very small and pale. We have to repeat it over and over again through a period of many months ; but looking to the effects of long-continued frictional irritation, I have been en- couraged to persevere, and, in some cases, have met with success. I have tried brushing with strong nitric acid, re- peated blistering, iodine, perchloride of iron, and strong mercurial inunction. On the whole, I should say that iodine made the best application. The liniment, or the Edinburgh tincture, should be used and carried to strong irritation, to be repeated again and again as the cuticle peels off. The objec- tion is the discoloration, so long continued and so conspicuous ; but it is least likely to leave a permanent mark from its own action, and is at least as effectual as any other irritant. 2. Subcutaneous use of escharotics, coagulants, or irritants. This may be done in three ways :— (^r.) By the subcutaneous injection of such substances as tannin, carbolic acid, or perchloride of iron. {b.) By the galvanic cautery. (a) By electrolysis. I have given up entirely the first and second of these methods in favour of the third. The injection of coaplants is simply a coarser way of introducing under the skin sub- stances similar to those more definitely and effectively intro- duced by electrolysis. The effect of this greater coarseness is, first, that it is difficult to draw the line between doing too much and doing too little, between causing a slough of the whole mass and leaving the tumour as it was. In the most cautious hands I have seen a destruction of tissue produced which gave rise to inconvenient scarring and deformiU. Secondly, unle.ss a preliminary temporary ligature be per- formed, injection is attended with some risk. Several cases