29 ANGIOMA and if the pulsation be not very strong, there is a possibility of spontaneous cure by fibrous or inflammatory change. I witnessed the gradual obliteration of one of small size, and but slightly pulsatile, which was seated over the lower part of the trapezium. They are amenable to treatment. 4. Under the head of aneurism by anastomosis I describe a variety of tumour in which arteries, veins, and capillaries are all involved. It commences in early adult life. Once begun, it continues to grow slowly and irregularly, but surely; and often, after many years—now stationary, now increasing—it may attain truly gigantic proportions. It does not, in my experience, affect specially the scalp, but is generally seated on the upper part of the trunk, or on the neck. The chief risk is from injury. It has very little tendency to produce ulceration, although I have met with tumours in which the skin at parts appeared to be dangerously thin. These thin portions lie over the large venous connections, and I should regard aneurism by anastomosis as having risks in regard to rupture somewhat similar to, but not so great as those of varix ; not so great, because there is little tendency to inflammatory action, as in varix. Perhaps the best idea of such a tumour may be got from a description of the largest I have met with, in a patient of Dr G. W. Balfour, aged 42. Beginning at the centre of the right clavicle, it extended backwards over the shoulder and root of the neck to a considerable distance below the lower angle of the scapula. It entirely enveloped the lower half of that bone, but did not invade it or produce absorption. The tumour was nodulated, of varying consistence, and somewhat ill-defined. The pulsation was strong over the whole mass- varying, however, much in force ; partly from varying near- ness to the surface, partly from the arteries being more dilated in one part, the veins in another, the capillaries in a third. A loud and distinct systolic bruit could be heard throughout. In three separate areas, in the lower part of the posterior triangle of the neck, this bruit was replaced by the harsh, continuous, to-and-fro, intensely thrilling murmur, which has been well likened to the noise made by a blue- bottle fly in a brown paper bag, which is found in aneurismal