ANGIOMA 38 a cure. The interval was longer than usual, because the patient had great difficulty in leaving his work, and for the same reason, and because I was confident of its safety, he was allowed to return home on the third day after the first opera- tion, on the same day after the others had been performed. A year afterwards he returned, because he discovered a twist- ing artery lying horizontally above the auricle. It was about an inch long, and lay deeply imbedded in a groove in the bone. A short application of the needles quickly occluded it. A very good example of success in one operation was the case of a young gentleman sent to me by Dr Beatson. He had come home from the East for the purpose of being treated, and various suggestions had been made as to ligature and excision, but curiously enough no one had thought of electrolysis until he saw Dr Beatson. It is astonishing that by far the safest and most certain method of treating cirsoid aneurism should be so little appreciated. The only occasion on which I combined any other mode of treatment with electrolysis was in a girl of 18, sent to me from St Andrew s by Dr Moir. This cirsoid aneurism, which originally Avas very large, extending from ear to vertex, had become almost flat, and had lost its pulsation, as the result of electrolysis, but half-a-dozen affluents from the occipital, posterior auricular, opposite temporal, and anterior branch of the same temporal remained large and tortuous. Two of these curved over the forehead, and were rather unsightly. Moreover, although I thought it probable that they would slowly disappear, I was not assured of this. I determined, therefore, to attack^ them, and did so, by placing a needle under and a small^ piece of sheet-lead over these two at their origin, and then tying a silk thread under the projecting ends of the needle and over the lead. Thereafter I destroyed these and the other arteries by electrolysis at the points when they entered the tumour. The result was completely successful, and the marks left by the needles were ver}^ small. The mode of operating by electrolysis is preci.sely as in other angiomata. The secret of rapid success, howevei, lies in the recognition that this is an arterial tumour. T lat is also the reason why the success is so invariable. The posi