8 ANGIOMA subcutaneous na;vi which develop arterial connections in adult life. It would seem that the subcutaneous tumour is prone to outlast adolescence in proportion as it may be associated with arterial, venous, or, as we shall presently .see, some forms of degenerative metamorphosis. The cure is evidently brought about through a fibrous change. In a large number, I think, I can predict, with toler- able certainty, whether or not they are about to disappear. An advancing naevus is characterised by the vividness of its colouring, by its softness and compressibility. On the other hand, if it be about to retrograde it is distinctly firmer ; and this induration is somewhat irregular and nodular, parts of the growth soft, parts hard. There is an inflammatory element in it, followed by gradual atrophy, produced, no doubt, by constriction of the vessels through fibrous contraction of the intervascular inflammatory products. I have already pointed out that the naevus is sensitive to inflammatory causes. In a child a few months old, a naevus surrounded the elbow and attained a very large size. Notwithstanding the utmost care, the folds of skin which lay in contact with each other ulcerated, and the ulceration began to spread over the rest of the swelling in a most alarming manner. Fortunately the growth of the n$vus was arrested by electrolysis, and in the end, I think, the cicatrisation of the ulcers hastened its disappearance. Under friction from the clothing also, the cutaneous portion will sometimes entirely disappear. It is exceedingly common to see a neevus the margin of which is of a brilliant red and distinctly spreading, while the central part is of a dull livid tint, or perfectly white. This is no doubt due in large measure to the fact that the more promi- nent portion is that which is most exposed to external sources of irritation. At the same time, a neevus cures from the centre habitually ; and it almost looks as if, like other parts of the body, it had a definite life-history, the older parts undergoing involution while the younger evolve. There can be no doubt that the disappearance of a naivus is largely influenced by the period of life. It sounds para- doxical, but it is true, that the critical period of the first teeth- ing may lead either to increa.se or diminution ; and the more