LAPAROTOMY IN TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS 127 such effect on tubercular lesions, and that in many of these operations its action must have been of exceedingly short duration. On the other hand, the possibility must not be over- looked that evacuation of fluid and other abnormal contents of the abdomen may be of benefit, not only by relieving tension, but also because they contain noxious products which maintain irritation. I do not see, in short, how we are to escape the conclusion that more than one cause is required to account for the advantages of laparotomy, and that the most important are probably the relief of tension, the removal of irritating fluid, the introduction of air, and the mechanical interference. After all, however, laparotomy in tuberculous peritonitis is empirical, and only experiment and experience can as yet be trusted to determine its value, the best mode of doing it, the cases in which it is to be employed, and those in which it is inadmissible. In any endeavour to assess the value and the limitations of laparotomy, regard must of course be had to the nature of the disease in which it is employed. This is a manifesta- tion of tuberculosis which presents some peculiarities due to local conditions, but which on the whole follows pretty closely the line of tubercle in other parts. Here, as elsewhere, the soil is of more importance than the seed in determining incidence, course, and result. Incidence, because whether, if tubercle be introduced, it will flourish or die out, largely depends on the condition of the body, diathetic, developmental or pathological, and on the condition of the part attacked, anatomically, physiologically, and pathologically. A most interesting deduction from life- insurance statistics is that weight of body is almost equal to family record as indicating predisposition to phthisis. Course and result in like manner are influenced. The granuloma provoked by tubercle, according to the same conditions, may develop fibrous tissue and cicatrise, or, on the other hand, may undergo various degenerations, cheesy, calcareous, or purulent. And conversely, the predominance of one or other of these changes may indicate the more or