47 ELECTROLYSIS IJM ANEURISM considerable size, reaching in its circumference to the aneurismal wall, I felt that as yet it could not have done so. But, on the other hand, exudation had begun, and it seemed doubtful whether the electrolysis would first produce rupture or coagulation. With trepidation I continued the operation. The exudation did not increase, and when at 3.30 1 removed the needles, pulsation was reduced to a gentle heaving motion. During the night he was restless, and a considerable quantity of fluid, closely resembling thin tar in colour and consistence, trickled over his left shoulder into the bed. The flow of altered blood continued off and on during the next two days. On 3rd January, Mr Chiene and I examined the tumour. It had been partially covered with cotton wool and collodion and a bandage, but without removing these we could ascertain that the central part of the aneurism felt like a bladder parti- ally filled with fluid. To the right was a semi-circle, an inch broad, which gave the sensation of perfect hardness and solidity. There was no pulsation either in the fluid or the solid ; while, still further to the right, the aneurism pulsated as strongly as before the operation. On I St February, finding it loose, I removed the case of cotton wool and collodion which had hitherto covered the blue part of the tumour and the needle punctures. One half of the tumour was flat with the chest, and the remainder was greatly diminished in size. An ulcer in process of cicatrisa- tion, and now not larger than a shilling, was situated to the left of the sternum, its edge fully half-an-inch distant from the nearest part of the swelling, and more from any point where there was the least indication of pulsation. It repre- ■sented the dark circular spot formerly described as occupying the most projecting portion of the aneurism, which was now quite flat. 23rd February.—As the tumour was again increasing I operated again. The electric action was continued for more than an hour. Towards the end of the operation gas escaped from the ulcer with a loud hissing noise. The phenomena were the same as before, and we were