132 LAPAROTOMY IN TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS a swelling began to be felt in the abdomen. This progressed until it was allowed to open spontaneously, as the patient did not return to the Infirmary. Here the history diverges. In the young man a simple sinus has formed, and there can be felt adherent to the anterior wall of the abdomen a tolerably hard mass, which is slowly getting less. His general health remains good, and the rest of his abdomen is soft and pain- less. In the child the opening of the abscess was speedily followed by the escape of faeces, and a faecal fistula has existed now for six months. There is a striking absence of all pain, and the abdomen is soft and not enlarged. On this account I have not interfered, and because I believe the fistula will close spontaneously, and the necessary operation would not be without risk. At all events, meantime the wound is drawing in, getting fibrous—a condition of very favourable omen in all tuberculous sores—while the faecal escape is very small and undoubtedly diminishing. We must be prepared, therefore, for this accident. Otherwise there is nothing in the risks of the operation to forbid its extensive use. I have myself been inclined to limit the operation to cases in which the peritoneum was alone attacked. That, however, is justifiable only because the procedure is still tentative. The considerations which ultimately will influence the surgeon I have already referred to. I have not confined it to any type of the disease. I have come to look upon the cases with fluid as favourable for the operation, but I am not sure that this is not a prejudice, because in two cases, in which there was absolutel} not twenty drops of liquid, the recovery was as speedy and satisfactory as in the others. I do not think that the last words have been said as to the essential features of the operation. The only difficult)' in its performance arises from the possibility that the incision may lie over a point Avhere the bowel is adherent to the wall. As the peritoneum may be much thickened and gelatinous, care has to be exercised in its division. The fluid ha\ ing been evacuated, any easily detached lymphy masses should also be removed. When these are extensive, the prognosis