137 TREATMENT OF FRESH WOUNDS cases the constitutional state may be bad, the local injury ought to be more favourable than in a severe bruise. The tissues are sharply cut and perfectly viable, and the vessels are tied so carefully that serious distention should not occur. If, then, there were no other intercurrent circumstance, drainage ought to be unnecessary. But by almost universal concurrence of opinion it is held to be necessary. The reason is to be found in the admission of air and its contents. It is because the results of such admission are the conversion of the harmless fluids of a bruise into virulent and deadly poisons, which can only be prevented from producing their pyrogenous and phlogogenous effects by immediate evacuation. The most perfect examples of the character of these products are met with in abdominal surgery, and the most beautiful results of drainage are there also seen. The bloody serum to which Dr Marion Sims has recently been drawing attention is the source of the evil. But why ? No one will pretend that a little bloody serum in the peritoneum would produce an evil effect unless there were a wound. It does not do it after an operation for strangulated hernia. It only does it in a few ovarian operations. Plainly because only in these few has it been poisoned from without. And the results are there rapidly fatal because the surface on which the poison exerts its phlogogenous action is so enormous and its means for entering the circulation so free. Well, then, if the antiseptic theory be true and its practice moderately feasible, we have no need for drainage on this account. It is not necessary to drain the bloody serum, because the bloody serum is innocuous. But it is said that the irritation of antiseptics increases the flow of serum from the wound, and renders drainage necessary to avoid tension. Practically, I doubt the truth of this observation ; at least the discharge is not of such amount or kind as to make any demand for special means of drainage in the majority of our cases. On the contrary, because it is serous, it flows easily through the interstices between the sutures, and it is certain that its flow ceases in a very short time. I find that if a wound remain a.septic drainage-tubing is rarely required.