ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM 53 Upon. Electrolysis is shorter, but more painful than the needles. Neither can be expected to be free from risk, or to present a high percentage of cure in aortic aneurism. The same questions, however, must be considered in connection with external aneurism, in which the results obtained must to a large extent determine the value of the methods in thoracic cases. External Aneurism.—We have here at our disposal a great variety of operative procedures, most of which undoubtedly have their use in suitable cases. Modern surgery has diminished, it has not of course elimin- ated, the difference in point of risk between operations which involve a breach of surface and those which do not. But this diminution in risk has at least the effect of causing us to re- consider our attitude to them in connection with each variety of aneurism. I am not sure that we do not underestimate the value of medical treatment. I had one interesting case of aneurism in Hunter’s canal in my wards, which had been treated by Mr Spence by ligature of the superficial femoral. It had, when the patient left the Infirmary, almost but not quite disappeared. A year afterwards, however, it began slowly to enlarge, and he came again to the Infirmary. I put him upon potassium iodide, and elevated the limb, with the effect that in ten weeks it was absolutely cured. But putting aside the medical treatment, we have at our disposal for external aneurism the various methods of obliterating the cavity by the introduction of coagulants, the different modes of arresting or diminishing the force of the circulation, and the old operation of evacuation. It is, of course, perfectly evident that these operations must have very different values in different aneurisms ; that evacuation, or ligature, or electrolysis will have very different relations in respect of feasibility, risk, effect, according as they are applied to a gluteal or iliac, an idiopathic or traumatic, a .sacculated or fusiform aneurism. It is essential, therefore, after a preliminary glance at each modus operandi, to consider it in reference to the varieties of aneurism. I have already in connection with aortic