TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE KNEE 86 surface may become inoculated by diseased matter left behind, and the progress of the disease be more rapid than before. Osseous ankylosis must be difficult to procure, and, indeed, there can be no other reason for the long delay in attaining it, and the occasional total failure which occurs in excision of the knee. A fracture through cancellated texture rarely fails to unite. The difficulty rather is to prevent an ankylosis of the neighbouring joint. Now, an excision is specially prepared for union; the surfaces are made as broad as possible, and usually special apparatus, as sutures of wire, are used to secure accurate apposition. But there can be no doubt that delayed union is common. In most of my excisions I find that mobility can be detected easily at the end of eight, ten, and twelve weeks, and I do not find that union is more rapid in aseptic cases, which heal by first intention, than in those which have been done through septic sinuses, and which I have failed to render aseptic. I think it not impossible, indeed, that the aseptic condition may diminish the rapidity and certaintj of osseous union. I have been inclined to think that, so far as osseous union is concerned, operations for ununited fracture were more successful in old septic days than now. Much more dangerous they doubtless formerly were , but, if they did not kill, they succeeded, presumably from the hyperaemic results of inflammation. But this is scarcely an adequate explanation of delay in excision. It is, if aseptic, precisely in the same condition as a simple fracture or a compound fracture kept aseptic. But the delay occurs whether it be septic or aseptic. There must, there- fore, be some factor special to the condition, and this lies, doubtless, in the state of texture brought about by the disease, and wffiich must be aggravated if foci of tubercle be left behind. But again, after operations through tuberculous tissue, there is a danger of dissemination of tubercle. This occurs in two ways. Much against my will I operated by excision in a case of tubercular disease of the knee-joint in a young man in whom the disease was so extensive that I strongly advised amputation. He w'ould not submit, and died of