WOUND TREATMENT WITHOUT THE SPRAY 167 I cannot, therefore, as yet abandon altogether the applica- tion of germicides to the wound. I try to do so now and again in the more simple wounds, and I have not had reason to regret it. I think it may come that we shall operate in an atmosphere rendered sufficiently pure to enable us to do so safely. Meantime, not yet venturing altogether to abandon, we try to moderate the irritating qualities of the antiseptic. With this object in view, I have elected to smear my wounds with a solution of carbolic acid in glycerine. There are two solvents of carbolic acid which mitigate its caustic action—oil and glycerine. After trying the mixture of oil and carbolic acid, I came to the conclusion that the glycerine was in many respects to be preferred. As every one knows, glycerine is itself little prone to putrefaction, and although there are rare organisms which find it a suitable soil, animal substances may be kept in it without decom- posing. Oil, on the other hand, parting quickly with the acid, may easily become rancid. Again, glycerine is mixable with water, an advantage of no slight practical importance. Its adhesive property, moreover, at once main- tains it on the surface of the wound, and is calculated to catch and retain any organisms which may alight, and so prevent them from easily finding their way into the recesses. 1 have found that glycerine alone is sufficient in minor wounds, but as a rule, and to make assurance doubly sure, I mix it with carbolic acid. I have generally used one part of carbolic acid to twelve of glycerine, but a solution of one to twenty is, at the same time, perfectly antiseptic, and even more free from cau.stic and irritating properties. I expected that the attraction of glycerine for water would produce a very copious flow of serum from the wound, but it has turned out that there is not so great an exudation as when the watery solution of carbolic acid has been used. For ordinary wounds it is quite sufficient, the skin having been rendered a.septic, to smear the solution over the surface at the end of the operation ; but in wounds in which cavities are laid open, in which there are many recesses, or in which the depth is great as compared with the breadth, it is better to pour on a little from time to time during the operation. If the