97 EPITHELIOMA OF THE MOUTH of the humerus, and ultimately determine amputation. It is an everyday experience that a strumous arthritis may be developed by injury, and Mr Sayre holds that traumatic synovitis invariably precedes morbus coxae. 4. The hereditary element in malignant disease probably plays a part, though it cannot be regarded as an important one. It is compatible with any hypothesis. The hereditary character of phthisis is unmistakable, although certainly the bacillus is not transmitted ; and equally so is the inheritance of syphilis, wherein very possibly it is transmitted. Whether the very materies morbi, or the soil suitable for its growth, is the subject of heredity remains, and will long remain in many such diseases, an unsolved problem. 5. The solitary character of the primary growth is a marked feature of malignant disease. Innocent tumours are often primarily and independently multiple—lipomata, papillomata, enchondromata, osteomata—malignant very rarely. You see them crop out in a shower all over the body second- arily, but even in symmetrical organs the presence of a tumour in each may be regarded as evidence against its malignancy. If, then, it may be said, the disease comes through the blood (and the argument is a priori plausible), you would certainly anticipate much greater frequency in primary symmetry or multiplicity. But here again analogy is on the other side. Strumous disease may undoubtedly be multiple, but as a rule white swelling is asymmetrical and solitary. So of tertiary syphilis, and so of cancer. I have seen on two occasions scirrhus of both mammae. I have seen multiple primary sarcomata, but they are com- paratively rare. The similarity holds even in this respect. The argument, of course, fails altogether if we assume (what is not improbable) that the disease is generally of local intro- duction in the way of local inoculation. 6. The absence of a distinct line of demarcation between innocent and malignant tumours is interesting, but militates in no way against the microbic theory. It is common to all disease. There are no hard and fast lines in nature, but they do remain typically and essentially distinct. I suppose that the closest associations lie in the enchondroma with the G