I'AIN AS A SYMPTOM OF FRACTURE IO9 as a negative sign it is decisive, if not always clinically valu- able, and that as a positive indication of fracture it is also of great importance. In direct fracture from the depth and situation of the bone, it may not always be possible to apply the test with precision; and even when the bone is partly superficial, that is precisely the portion of its contour most likely to be covered by tissues which the blow has also bruised. But it may be that the whole bone can be felt, or that the opposite side from that struck is in a position which can be reached. If it be so, the presence of pain on pressure indicates fracture, and its absence proves that there is none. But in fractures produced otherwise than by direct violence, pain on pressure attains its highest value. The same circum- stances as in direct fracture, no doubt, impede more or less the precision with which the fact can be ascertained. The bone may be so deep or so situated that it cannot be directl)- pressed upon in the whole or some part of its ciicumference, and injury of the soft parts in the neighbourhood may under certain circumstances be produced by indirect violence. But these impediments are not so serious as in the formei case. The first impediment does not interfere with the negative value of the sign in injury from indirect any more than from direct violence. If any part of the contour of a bone be subjected to pressure without pain, it is certainly not broken on that particular level. And this is of practical value, especially in the vicinity of some of the joints. The elbow, for example, has been violently wrenched. By putting the arm in the easiest position, and then running the finger along the exposed edge of the ulna, pressing together the condyles of the humerus and their ridges, and feeling the head of the radius, you may distinctly determine that there is no fracture without further examination. And, on the other hand, the depth or situation of the bone does not necessarily impede the discovery of fracture by this sign. It is not essential that the whole circumference of the bone should be exposed to pressure. A very small portion will suffice, if it be immediately under the finger, if the painful spot be in the