ANGIOMA 30 varix, and which always indicates close communication between an artery and a vein. In each area there was a spot where, by pressure with the finger tip, this bruit, and, to a considerable extent, the neighbouring pulsation, could be readily extinguished. Curiously enough, when the lowest of these spots was pressed upon, the bruit in another was also arrested. When I saw it, the tumour was of very old date, and when I heard of him ten years afterwards the man was still alive, with little alteration in the mass, except some increase in bulk. TreatDient.—^After my early success with electrolysis in cirsoid aneurism and nzevus, I was at first inclined to believe that a like success would follow its application to all forms of angioma. I was supported in this belief by my first case, one of pulsatile erectile tumour of the cheek, which was thus easily and quickly cured. Two cases, however, which were placed under my care by Dr George W. Balfour, rudely shook my faith. The first was that gigantic example of aneurism by anastomosis in the neck and shoulder, to which I have already referred. For many months I worked away with electrolysis, certainly without injury to the patient, but with as little injury to the tumour. I dotted all through it masses of induration, but as they were slowly absorbed no diminution could be observed in the bulk of the tumour. Ultimately I abandoned the attempt in despair. The other was a remarkable case of pulsatile cavernous tumour, which occupied the submaxillary region, and pro- jected both outwards and into the floor of the mouth. It had existed for twenty years when I saw it first. About twelve years before that time the lady had consulted Mr Syme as to the propriety of her marriage. He gave it as his opinion that her life was too precarious to justify the step. The arguments of the lover were, however, more powerful than those of the surgeon, and the lady not only married but buried her husband. This tumour also I did my best to cure. On one occasion I even went so far in the destruction of tissue that the absorbents were unequal to the task given them, and an abscess slowly formed in the tumour. Much alarmed by the pain and the serious prognostic of her surgeon in the