ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM 57 was rapidly advancing. The state of parts was much worse than when the previous series was performed, but even in that series we had considerable irritation. The skin, needles, and hands were all prepared as for an antiseptic operation, and the needles, while in, were carefully packed round with gauze. On no occasion had we any such trouble when the needles were kept in for a short time, or with the electrolytic operations. It is difficult to say whether this was due to the prolonged mechanical irritation, or to the deeper follicles of the skin containing undestroyed organisms. It is well known that an absolutely perfect aseptic condition of skin is diffi- cult to secure. The means taken were thorough scrubbing with soap and water and ether, followed by a i to 40 carbolic compress for twelve hours. I have no doubt that both with electrolysis and with needling there was very considerable improvement, and that life was prolonged thereby, at all events in the earlier part of the case. I am inclined to think that the progress of the aneurism was hastened by the inflammatory reaction in two of the later operations. But, as may be expected to occur in a certain proportion of cases, the conditions, whether of blood or aneurismal sac, were here evidently unfavourable for the production of laminated fibrin. It is evident that whether one or the other method be used, it is difficult to anticipate the amount of irritation necessary, yet not injurious. Case V. presents various points of interest. J. A., set. 36, admitted June 1891, for popliteal aneurism. Treatment by rest and flexion had been already tried before admission. My experience of the flexion treat- ment in other cases had proved to me that the criterion of its effectiveness lay simply in its power to obliterate pulsation in the aneurism. If by flexion an aneurism could be made so to press upon its artery as to obliterate it, success was prob- able, not otherwise. In this case flexion had no distinct effect. I did not therefore repeat the flexion, especially as it had led to paresis of the external popliteal nerve and con- siderable oedema of the leg, with petechial spots. After allowing a few days for recovery from this condition