140 TREATMENT OF FRESH WOUNDS their germicide properties with success. Further, it helps to arrest the exudation of blood from the capillaries and smaller vessels, and prevents bagging of the wound. Now the mode of dressing by gauze and mackintosh, while reliable for the exclusion of septic influences, is in the.se ways imperfect. It is an immense improvement on the old painful daily dressings. But it promotes moist warmth. It does not lend itself readily to equable compression. It cannot be used as a permanent dressing. It requires renewal weekly, because the antiseptic is in that time exhausted at the temperature of the body. Doubtless, exhaustion of the antiseptic would do no harm unless the discharge were suffi- cient to reach the edge of the dressing. If you cover an aseptic fluid with a few layers of gauze or with a single layer of mackintosh, it will remain for any time and at any temperature untainted. But the mackintosh keeps the skin underneath it moist from perspiration, and even were there no discharge from the wound, putrefaction would occur so soon as the antiseptic was sufficiently exhausted. Considerations such as I have endeavoured to explain, and many clinical attempts with this and that method, have gradually led me to adopt a style of dressing which enables me in a large proportion of cases simply to lay the patient aside till his wound has healed. The method is as follows :— The wound is carefully and accurately stitched. If it be large, an interval of an inch or less is left between two of the stitches at some convenient part, and if, from the nature of the wound, firm compression throughout is uncertain, a few of the catgut ligatures are left long and brought out at the interval, or an indiarubber drainage-tube is inserted. In most cases it is completely closed. A piece of dextrinised oiled silk is applied. Mr Lister’s object in this application is to protect from carbolic irritation ; but were it not that it also prevents adhesion of the dressings, I should not consider it of importance when the edges of a wound are carefullj approximated. One layer of moistened gauze is the next covering, and over it a thick padding of dry salicjdic wool, firmly compressed by a gauze bandage. The layer of gauze facilitates the ultimate removal of the dressings. Without it