96 EPITHELIOMA OF THE MOUTH 2. The variety of form which malignant disease presents is not in argument of much weight, because according to this hypothesis it may be explained either by supposing that there is more than one variety of microzyme, or by citing the analogy of other diseases in which the most curiously varied phenomena are produced by one and the same germ, according to the constitutional state or local condition—according, that is, to the soil or climate in which it finds itself. 3. Nothing can be more certain than that epithelioma may be excited by irritation. One has only to call to mind that it occurs in scars, especially of burns, in old sores and sinuses. My experience of these is that a very long course of irritation is necessary. It is rare to see it so arise except after fourteen or fifteen years of persistent irritation. The same applies to other forms of inflammatory precedent. The soot wart is a matter of years. The paraffin epithelioma takes a long time. A papilloma or mole only becomes malignant after long inflammation. A smoker must keep his lip seriously sore for many years before cancer appears. Nevertheless, the causation by the pipe is undoubted, and my colleague, Mr Bell, tells me that he has only seen three cases of epithelioma of the lip in women, and they were all smokers. There can be no doubt, therefore, that epithelioma may be set up by irritation. I believe that the same may be said of other varieties of malignant disease. It is not so striking, but you see it in the eczema that some- times precedes scirrhus of the mamma, in the fact that the mamma and uterus are prone to be attacked, in the facts which indicate that sarcomata may originate in a sudden and violent injury. But there is nothing therein that militates against the microbic hypothesis. The explanation is that a suitable soil is thereby prepared. It has its complete analogy in Chauveau’s experiments in bistournage. Septic matter, if it be introduced into the blood of sheep, will pro- duce an abscess in the scrotum if bistournage ^ or twisting of the cord be performed, but otherwise, that is if one or other process be omitted, no suppuration will result. I have seen a syphilitic gumma produced at the site of fracture