OSTEOMYELITIS 76 is often recorded, but, curiously enough, I have never met with a case in which it has followed a simple fracture. I suppose that one or more wandering cocci having found their way into the circulation, find also a suitable breeding ground in bone, a tissue to which they are partial, and which, being from one cause or another in a state of depressed vitality, is unable to resist the attack. I take it that the general systemic reaction is usually produced by the local disease, because we find it to vary with the success of our local treatment, and that had the cocci not reached this appropriate soil they would have been harmlessly eliminated. That the soil must be highly specialised we see in the proclivity of certain ages, certain tissues, nay, even certain parts of tissues. In bone, the favourite point of attack, as in this case, is the end of a long bone, whence, as it spreads, it tends to pass along the shaft. Not that the epiphysis or any cancellated texture is immune, but it is interesting to note that even if it be attacked it is only when the on- slaught is positively fulminant that it reaches through it to the neighbouring joint. Another point of importance in the case is the difficulty of early diagnosis. There are many in whom the local incidence of the disease is at once evident. But there are others, such as this, in whom the ostitis is a somewhat late phenomenon. Ulcerative endocarditis may complicate and obscure the diagnosis, pneumonia is not uncommon, and in this case we see that in the early stages the disease closely simulated rheumatic fever, and later strongly affected the central nervous system. There are three diseases, indeed, which in their incipience closely resemble each other, viz., rheumatic fever, some forms of acute tuberculosis, and septic infection. Yet another difficulty is illustrated by this patient It is universally recognised that the moment septic ostitis is diagnosed the proper course is to incise immediately down to and through the periosteum, with antiseptic precautions. But it is by no means so clear when we ought to be content with this measure. It is often successful. I have over and over again, even in acute necrosis of the femur, which in