90 EPITHELIOMA OF THE MOUTH The doubt as to its malignancy was strengthened by certain points in the character of the sore. I laid little stress on the hardness which surrounded it. There are forms of epithelioma in which the hardness is pathognomonic, but it may present every variety, and where there is much ulceration the texture has often little more than the brittle softness of ordinary granulations. Here the denseness resembled the inflammatory in degree and kind. Xor did I attach importance to the absence of distinct tumour growth. It was sufficiently rugged, and in parts exuberant. Moreover, in epithelioma there is every variety in the relation between the growth and the destruction of the new texture. In some, great masses of raw growth project outwards like a cauliflower; in others, a thin rim is the sole representative of tumour growth. But I was much impressed by the fact that there was a space of unbroken surface which separated the anterior from the posterior portion of the ulcer on the palate. It was inflamed, this narrow bridge, and it was difficult to say whether it was mucous membrane or a scar. But whether or no, that is not the usual behaviour of epithelioma. It does not skip portions of surface, nor does it scar over again when it has once destroyed. That bridge was syphilitic like. It was very difficult to get from him a definite history of his case. We could not ascertain that he had suffered from syphilitic symptoms. But so far as primary syphilis is concerned, veracity very constantly departs upon the entr}' of the virus, and he was quite sufficiently unobservant, forget- ful, and stupid, to be unable to give details of secondar}' manifestations. Upon two points, however, he was perfectly clear: that the sore began on the upper lip, and that it commenced not more than four months before his admission. It is fair to say that so rapid a spread of epithelioma is uncommon. At least in its early stages, the history is com- paratively slow and often preceded by months or years of slight irritation. Lastly, we took scrapings from the surface of the sore in several places and examined them microscopically. In doing so we first carefully cleansed the surface from discharge.