92 KI’ITIIELKJMA OF THE MOUTH circular area, an inch in diameter, occupied by dry, greyish, irregular plates of epithelium, separated from each other by cracks and fissures, but merging insensibly into the ordinary epithelium, except towards the left anterior margin. At that point was an ulcer about the size of a florin, with thickened overhanging edge and hollowed base. The granulations, which were large but pale, gave off much watery pus. The patient was so ill on admission, weak and scarcely able to speak, that a thorough examination was delayed. The temperature, however, never fell below 102°, the whole chest was full of moist rales, and there was much dulness, worst towards the apices. He died a few days after admis- sion. Mr H. A. Thomson found on post-mortem examination the tubercle bacillus in abundance in the ulcer and lungs. A definite diagnosis had not been made before death, but the weak and exuberant granulations, the soft character of the surrounding swelling, the copious discharge, the position to- wards the tip of the tongue, and the concomitant condition of the lungs,had excluded the possibilityof gumma or epithelioma, and I think there can be little doubt that with farther oppor- tunity and the use of the microscope, what was suspected would have been definitely established. The presence of the so-called psoriasis of the tongue was interesting. The simply inflammatory sore is perhaps more often difficult to differentiate from an epithelioma than any other, and it is not astonishing that it is so, for the one passes into the other by insensible gradations. Take this case : G. F., aet. 61, came as an out-patient to the Infirmary in May 1887- had had a sore on the lip for 15 years, which had healed and broken out many times under the influence of the pipe. Three months before he showed himself it had definitely established itself, and the intensity of the induration and its depth left no doubt as to its character. But it is plain that m such a case there must have been a time when neither history, nor appearance, nor microscopic examination could by any possibility determine whether the invasive period had begun or not. There can be no question that in these doubtful cases the true course is to regard the disease as an epithelioma, and act accordingly.