ANGIOMA lO rare, and I have not met with an example in na;vu.s uncon- nected with the pigmented or papillary mole. Etiology.—We really know no more of the cau.sation of nasvi than we do of most forms of abnormal local growth. Some have been attributed to injury ; but, independently of the a priori improbability, there is reason to believe that the mistake has arisen from the resemblance to a bruise which they sometimes present in their early state. Injury may modify them undoubtedly, by the production of inflammation, by changing a simple into a pulsating naevus through rupture of arterioles, and possibly in other ways, but I do not think that it can produce them. There can be no doubt of their hereditary character. As might be expected in a growth plainly developmental in character, the tendency of the parent is in this respect often impressed on the offspring. I have known many illustrations. The influence of maternal impre.ssion I cannot regard as in any case adequately proved. It is rare to have the sug- gestion made even by the mother ; and when it is, inquiry will in the greater number show it to have been an after- thought. Symptoms. — The appearance of the cutaneous naevus will vary much. The name of “ port-wine stain ” indicates the prevailing tint with tolerable accuracy. But just as the colour of the lip or cheek varies in different individuals, so the naevus may present every tint from purple to brilliant red, though usually there is a considerable dash of blue. The blueness is greatly increased in many cases by cold, and in all may alter from time to time under the influence of temperature, exertion, and state of health. The network may be so fine that it is impossible to distinguish the separate vessels, and impossible also, by pressure or tension, to cause the discoloration entirely to disappear ; but usually larger vessels of a venous hue may be recognised permeating the prevailing redder colour, and from them the blood may be easily expressed. The margin fades pretty abruptly into healthy skin, but it is common to see little peninsulas and islands of a lighter tint stretching out from the general mass. It is .scarcely raised above the surroundings except in those cases to which 1 have