ANGIOMA 1 I already referred, in which fibrous nodules are associated with it. The erowth of hair over it varies much. When it occurs on the scalp the hair is much diminished in quantity, but on other parts of the body the fine down may be even more abundant than is natural ; and sometimes, as I have already said, it presents the appearance of a hairy mole. The cutaneous neevus has its special site upon the face. If it occur on the body it is usually of small extent, and shows symptoms of belonging rather to the mixed class, by tending to be somewhat elevated, and to pass deeper. It has also the more brilliant hue of that class, although it is possible that the higher temperature of the covered parts may diminish the appearance of lividity. The mixed variety is always elevated more or less above its surroundings, if small, as a rounded swelling ; if large, with a somewhat nodulated outline. In some the only alteration of colour is a certain bluish tint which shines through the integu- ment, but in the great majority the skin is thoroughly incor- porated in the growth. Sometimes it shows extensive dis- coloration over the whole surface, sometimes simply meander- ing venules; and a very frequent appearance is a margin of brilliant red, with a central part more or less of a dull whitish- blue. It is capable of being diminished by pressure, when any irregularity of its consistence becomes more manifest ; and it shows its erectile character by increasing on exertion, or when the child cries. The mixed variety is also prone to occur about the head and face, but is much more common than the cutaneous on other portions of the body. The purely subcutaneous nsevus is rarely large, and pre- .sents all the characters of the mixed form except the colora- tion. It is decidedly rare. There is a distinct absence of symmetry in all varieties of naevi. On the head and face the mixed and subcutaneous varieties often occupy the middle line. The nose is a common site, and I have three or four times seen the tip converted by naevus into a blue, unsightly knob. They are not very un- commonly multiple, but I have never seen two symmetrically placed. Sometimes on the face they run up to the middle