44 ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM most striking curative results have been obtained by Petrequin and Abeille in external, by Ciniselli and others in internal aneurism, with uninsulated needles, and with comparatively short, though painful, operations. Abeille de.scribes his patient as uttering loud shrieks and pouring with sweat. The mere fact that there was pain is proof that the needles were cauterising solid tissue. The mere fact that the needle was made of uncovered steel proves not only that, but that the very sac itself was cauterised. In my operations on aneurism the patients lay perfectly undisturbed, and on one occasion till the whole of the exposed point of the needle had been made to disappear by electric erosion. It is plain, therefore, that my operations consisted purely in coagulation of blood ; theirs in coagulation of blood, which alone they aimed at, plus cauterisation of the sac, which they endeavoured to avoid. In my operations there has been no mortality ; in theirs the mortality was high. In my operations, on the other hand, there were practically no cures, only amelioration ; in theirs a certain percentage of cures were produced. I believe, there- fore, that to some extent I have lost power in attaining safety. An important question is. How may the former be regained without losing the safety ? Now, to obtain a fair idea of the value of electrolysis in aneurism, it is necessary to have regard to the two varieties internal and external. The operation has been performed in thoracic aneurism oftener than in all others put together, partly, no doubt, from the greater frequency of internal aneurism, but chiefly because the relation of electrolysis to other forms of treatment is very different in the two varieties. Let us take first, then, thoracic aneurism. I do not know that I can do better than give some description of one or two cases in which the phenomena may be regarded as illustrative of the results of operation. Ca.se I.—The first case in which I used electrolysis m aortic aneurism occurred in 1866. The patient had already bled profusely. There was no return of bleeding after the operation, but the patient died exhausted after a week.