71 CLASSIFICATION OF ULCERS altogether, or may throw a small piece off. It is done without pus, and if at any time (it is a very slow process) you take off the dressings and look at it, you will find, till near the very end, the dead parts continuing centrally in adhesion to the living, and the typical healing sore represented by a belt of epithelium, and a narrow band of granulations between it and the slough. The second variety with which we are now familiar is that which may be called the exuberant healing sore. In protect- ing by antiseptic dressings from surrounding contamination, it is impossible to prevent a certain gentle stimulation by antiseptics, by warmth, and by moisture. The consequence is that the granulations become florid and large, the sore grows gently convex instead of concave, and the discharge is thinner and less copious than the pus bonum et laudabile. Even our central type has recognised variations. And so it is with all the typical ulcers. Now and again you see a weak one, or a callous, or too often an inflamed, but in the great majority of cases they are mingled or varied. It is often better, instead of trying to give a name, to say to 3murself: “ This sore departs from the healthy type because in whole or in part its edges are thick or undermined, its granu- lations large, or small, or absent; or red, or pale, or yellow ; or because in some other way a modification occurs.” After all, you classify merely that you may understand, and the next question you put to yourself is—What process is, for example, going on that has caused this modification in appearance ; how is it one ulcer has large pale granulations, another greyish- yellow, or another thick edges, or yet another dark blood ex- travasations in its substance ? And you find that the large pale granulations are so because they are oedematous, and you start immediately on a search into the meaning of oedema, and begin to think of heart, and kidney, and liver, and veins, and curious neuroses; or you find that the grey-yellow hue comes from coagulation-necrosis of cells ; and the action of chemical substances on albumen, and the interaction of micro-organisms, and the body cells rise before you; or again, you find that the extravasation has to do with the structure of granula- tion tissue, in which there is no nerve, but only blood-vessel