l6l WOUND TREATMENT WITHOUT THE SPRAV wounds were found to be healed. Nothing can be more satisfactory than to lay a patient thus aside, and simply watch the pulse and the temperature chart till sufficient time has elapsed for the wound to heal. 1 thought and still think that under certain conditions this might be relied upon. The first of these conditions is that the wound be dry. The surgeon cannot spend too much time in arresting the flow of blood. Blood mechanically separates the parts to be united, and removes accidental microzymes from the germicide action of the tissues. It is better to have the wound a mass of ligatured points than to have the least flow of blood from the smallest vessel. Next it is a con- dition of success that by pressure or position the surfaces of the wound be kept in absolute and steady apposition. Lastly, it is essential that applications to the wound be free from irritating properties. Unfortunately we have not yet attained perfection in these necessary conditions. A little reactionary hsemorrhage will now and again occur however careful the surgeon may be. It is impossible to make accurate and effective apposition in every form of wound. We do not yet know any bland antiseptics. I had recently a case which is so curious that, while citing it as an example of the evils which accrue from want of drainage, I should like to record it on its merits. A man, aet. 46, was sent to the Infirmary from the ^ew Town Dispensary with a tumour in each groin. For twenty years a swelling had existed on the left side, which could be made to disappear on pressure. Eight weeks before admission it had rapidly increa.sed and hardened, while the skin over it became red and adherent. I cut down,'12th February 1884, upon this tumour, and excised first a large mass of inflamed glands, each with its core of pus. Partly concealed by the glands I found a fatty tumour, and in dissecting it out came to a sac emerging with the fat from the widened crural canal. The tumour on the right side proved to be purely fatty, and its neck also passed through the crural ring. By dragging upon it, a portion of peritoneum could with some difficulty be brought into view They were examples of that hernia of hypertrophied subperitonea^