ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM 51 portion. In view of this position it was necessary to study carefully the reported cases of cure. Two points of difference emerge. The first is, that the operations were performed before the aneurism had fully penetrated the thoracic wall; and the second, that they were performed with uninsulated needles. The effect of the first is, of course, that the sac is probably in a much better condition for that contraction which we have seen to be so important; and of the second, that cauterisation of the sac was necessarily a part of the operation. It would seem that in these operations, as in my own, the idea that the good result depended on the amount of blood-clot immediately produced was quite erroneous. It was impossible that by the methods adopted by alternation of current and otherwise, the amount of blood-clot could have been at all considerable; had it been so, the slough round the needles where they passed through solid texture must also have been large, and therefore highly dangerous. The natural conclusion, therefore, is that the improvement in these cases has been chiefly due to the subsequent deposition of stratified fibrin in consequence of inflammation of the sac wall at and around the small sloughs produced by the needles. If this be so, and it is difificult to escape this con- clusion, the problem is entirely changed. It is no longer a question of how to produce the largest amount of coagulum with the least possible injury to the wall—a problem which was perfectly solved by the introduction of vulcanised needles— but the objective now is, to produce precisely that degree of inflammation which will lead to the deposition of fibrin, and yet avoid that inflammation of the sac which both spontan- eously, and after every form of operation for aneurism, has often led to disastrous results. It is plain that here we must aim at .something which can be applied with extreme precision, and that the method by electrolysis is at once brought into contrast with many other operations which are calculated to produce irritation of the sac even although some may have originally been introduced with the view simply of producing a coagulum. There are three methods by which electrolysis may be u.sed with this object in view :—