TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE KNEE 88 be most liable to occur when the disease is extensive, and one or other mode of operating will be, therefore, adopted according to the extent of the disease. But they will, also, be prone to happen in proportion to the size of the wound, and especially of raw osseous surface, and in this respect the relative value of the operations varies in different cases, arthrectomy in some having the advantage. It is evident, therefore, that no hard and fast rule is to be laid down, and that in every case many factors must be carefully weighed, one against another, before the surgeon can decide upon the appropriate operation. I have already said that in. a young and comparatively healthy person with unbroken skin, the risks of amputation and excision are so small, and differ so little, that preservation of the limb should be the rule. This proposition implies that age, health, and septicity, and to them I would add the social status, are factors of no mean importance in determining our choice. We incline to amputation in pre- ference to excision; the older a patient is the more his constitutional vigour has been impaired or is naturally defective, the greater the damage sustained from putrefactive conditions, and the less the pecuniary and hygienic circumstances are capable of affording the means of a long struggle with disease. I feel convinced that, with increasing experience, the surgeon tends more and more to conserve the life rather than the limb, the limb rather than the joint. As each advance in surgical therapeutics diminishes the danger of conservatism, he draws his line back in accordance with the logical consequence of the improvement. Where the com- parative risks differ but little he preserves, but the tendency with many is to extend a new improvement further than is legitimate, and it is well, in such circumstances, to draw attention to the conditions of the problem, and in this particular case to define, so far as may be, the reasonable limitations of arthrectomy as compared with excision and amputation.