ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM 45 Case II.—J. L., aet. 52, patient of Dr Macgregor. When I saw him (June 1867), had an aneurism projecting to the right of the sternum on the level of the third rib. It was about the size of an orange, with strong fluid pulsation, and evidently the tendency to death was by external haemorrhage. The operation was performed twice, with an interval of a month. The sequence of events was similar on the two occasions, viz., tension of tumour, some escape of gas into the cellular tissue, after a few days, relief to the patient and diminution of the tumour, and lastly, after a fortnight or so, slow increase again. Dr Macgregor notes after the second operation, “ Pulsation very slight, and more like the general lifting of the whole bulk of a solid body than the expansive feel of an aneurism.” But the growth increased again, the operation was not repeated, and the patient died. Of the post-mortem examination Dr Macgregor observes, in sending me the notes, that “ it clearly proved that a considerable quantity of blood had undergone coagulation by the galvanism,” and, he adds, “ had the orifice in the artery been not quite so large, and the galvanism more frequently or longer applied, success might have been the result.” The appearances he records are most interesting. The aorta was largely dilated and lined by a perfect sheet of calcareous matter, which shone like porcelain and rang to the stroke of the knife.” This is, of course, a condition of affairs which renders any thought of permanent cure out of the question. But, on the other hand, it is also recorded that “ it communicated with the external sac by a smooth opening the size of a two-shilling piece,” and again, “the sac could contain a closed fist, and the central mass (coagulum) was about the size of a hen’s egg. This was surrounded by liquid blood, which filled the space between it and the wall of the tumour.” The orifice, it seems to me, was not too large, and looking to the amount that had been accomplished, I have always regretted that illness prevented me from leaving town to repeat the operation. The fact that the liquid blood surrounded the coagulum is a striking commentary on the facts I have already detailed as the result of experi- ment.