82 TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE KNEE become more and more bent, until it was nearly at a right angle, and the patient could only walk on his toes. More- over, sudden strains or falls were apt to produce severe pain, lasting on each occasion for a day or two. Therein, in truth, lies an important difference, so far as the after-consequences of both arthrectomy and excision are concerned, between a prehensile organ like the arm, and one meant to bear weight like the leg. Fibrous bands will stand much strain in the way of direct tension, but little in the way of pressure or lateral jerk. Another disadvantage of even very slight remanent mobility lies in the fact that it greatly increases the chance of recurrence of the disease. After excision of the knee, if osseous union occur, the disease is cured ; and of a large number of such cases I have met with only one in which the disease recurred. I excised the knee in a lad of eighteen years, a patient of Dr Young, of West Calder. Osseous ankylosis followed, and, for more than a year, the limb was perfectly sound and useful. He was, however, a ver>^ tuberculous subject, having suffered much from suppurating glands in the neck, and he was lately brought back to me with recently formed sinuses, which led down to carious bone on the posterior surface of the tibia. I scraped with Volk- mann’s spoon, and he is now well. It is, in my experience, a solitary case. There is a distinct difference in this respect, also, between excision of the knee and excision of the elbow. I put aside cases in which the operation has been performed under septic conditions, although I believe the same observation applies. But in excising with unbroken skin, the rule is, that union takes place by first intention. In such a case osseous ankylosis of the knee is fairly certain, and also free mobility in the elbow. I have only once seen this recrudescence of the disease in the former when ankylosis was osseous. 1 have three times had to lament it in the latter. Take one as an example : I excised the elbow in a lad of fourteen years, and having taken care to arrest haiinorrhage, to remove all palpable disease, and to avoid antiseptic irritation, 1 secured union absolutely by first intention, no drainage tube having