174 WOUND TREATAfENT WITHOUT THE SPRAY related, and which happened to be under treatment at the same time. A certain number of other cases became septic, as judged by the odour, the discoloration of the protective, and other sie-ns. These were an excision of the testicle and a hernia o ^ , from displacement of dressings by the patients, one excision of the mamma, and one excision of the knee. Altogether seven cases became evidently septic,—a proportion in my experience of Infirmary work as small as by other methods. If we judge by microscopic examination of the discharge.s, the proportion in which bacteria or micrococci could be found was very much smaller than under the gauze and mackintosh. I do not attribute this to any more powerful germicide properties in the dressing 5 I believe it to be due to the fact that a far larger number of the cases are absolutely dry, and thus afford no possible soil for development. It appears to me, however, a fact of great significance, that, notwithstand- ing the absence of the spray, fewer cases are scientifically septic. I append a table of all the major operations, in cases with unbroken skin, which I have personally performed in the Infirmary, and treated by this plan, since I finally abandoned the spray. I find that, including these and all others, during the past twelve months I have performed forty-one major amputations and excisions, and seventy-nine other operations of a like magnitude, on patients in the wards of the InfirmaiAT besides many other minor amputations and operations involving a breach of surface. Of these six have died, I excision of the tongue—from septictemia. . ,, I lithotomy—from erysipelas of the head, to which he was very hah e. I nephrectomy. I colotomy—of diarrhoea, nine weeks afterwards. I amputation of leg and thigh the same night. I amputation of elbow—of sloughing cellulitis. I mention these figures because they imply a not unhealth\ condition of the wards generally during the period involved in the tables. I have already said that no great reliance is to be placed on statistics in a matter of treatment; but I have