2 2 ANGIOMA That, and possibly another, to which I shall refer elsewhere, are the only cases of nerve injury I have seen. They indicate the propriety, when there is the least chance of such a contretemps, of introducing a rheostat and galvanometer in the circuit. The rheostat is also useful when you are operat- ing without an anaesthetic, so that you may slowly increase the current from zero to the desired amount without adminis- tering shocks to the patient, which are more dreaded even than the burning pain which accompanies electrolytic action. With these precautions, and having familiarised yourself with the battery you employ, and its action on saline fluids, white of egg, and such like, outside the body, you may safely work as I have said without rheostat or galvanometer. An ordinary medical battery is quite sufficient, if it be in working order, but I found in the Infirmary that it so frequently was not, that before our electric installation I was in the habit of getting six Bunsen cells freshly charged for each occasion, in the smaller naevi using only three or four of them. Of course with an electric supply from the town and suitable apparatus for modifying the current, the greatest convenience is attained. But where that or the means of charging a storage batter)' is not at hand, I feel assured that to take the trouble of charging a Leclanche, Bunsen, or Smee when it is wanted, gives satisfac- tory results, these having the cells shut up in a box out of sight. The needles should be insulated with vulcanite. I know of no improvement on those originally introduced by Pro- fessor Fraser and myself. I have been told of a case in which the vulcanite covering fused during an operation. 1 his can only have occurred because the needle in the centre had been reduced to extreme tenuity to receive the vulcanite, and the exposed points been allowed to touch in the tumour. The resistance of the thin portion of the needle must have been so great compared to other parts of the circuit as to cause it to become overheated. Such a combination is ver}’ unlikel)' to recur, and is easily avoided b)'^ trial before insertion. The length of the exposed point must correspond to the size of the naevus, varying from an eighth to three-quarters of an inch. I'or the sake of sharpness, steel is the best material ; but the