130 LAPAROTOMY IN TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS time the stages or variations of miliary tubercle, lymphy exuberance, caseation, suppuration, and fibrous change. There can be no doubt, however, that from the general and local conditions a diagnosis as to the prevalence of one or other may be made with fair accuracy, and it is certainly useful for purposes of treatment. It will be evident from what has been said, that in en- deavouring to determine the role of laparotomy in tuberculous peritonitis, we should bear in mind the fact that the disease is not incurable. The high mortality of tuberculous meningitis would justify almost any operation which a priori, or empiri- cally, holds out a prospect of success, however small. Here, however, a certain number recover. The number must re- main indefinite, and statistics must continue unreliable, not only because of the bias to publication of curious and success- ful cases, but also because the prognosis of the disease varies with its developments. We can only make such statements as these—that a certain number recover; that the number varies with the type, being largest with the fibrous, smallest with the purulent; that such symptoms as a high and vari- able temperature are unfavourable, a level and low one the reverse. Yet, again, we must appreciate the fact that the serious- ness of tuberculous disease varies with its multiplicity and with the character of its diffusion. In no disease is the extremely specific relation of seed to soil as a factor in development so well marked as in tubercle. There is a liability not only to acquisition of the disease, but to its development in special textures. It is generally recognised that some forms of tubercle are prone to occur in young people, others in more advanced life. It is a fact that at all ages some people are prone to glandular, others to pulmonary, others to arthritic tubercle. It may be assumed as a general law that tubercle has a marked tendency to spread by the tissue in which it originated. Tuberculous disease of a joint or subcutaneous tubercle does not cause lupus, even though there be a breach of surface. But these various limitations may be transgressed, and when they are transgressed the case assumes additional gravity, and I suppose that nothing