66 INFLAMMATION reaction of life to injury. But before this can be accepted as an adequate definition, plainly we must know what is life and what is injury. Well, it may be answered, we do not know what life is, but surely we understand what is meant by the word injury. It is gravely to be doubted if in this connection we do. I suppose we should include in it a bruise, or a cut, or a fracture, but it is quite plain that there is an infinite gradation from the most violent destruc- tion of parts down to the most gentle pressure or friction. We have no doubt that the bacterium coli is injurious to the bladder; may it not be a healthful stimulus in the in- testine ? It is evidently, then, merely a question of where we are to draw the line ; and inasmuch as there is no natural division in the influences of environment on life, so, neces- sarily, there is no line of division in the reactions of living things to their environment. The same confusion of ideas and the same use of words which hide ignorance, prevails in every other definition. When it is said that inflammation is essentially a process of devitalisation, we are simply defining by a word which itself is in urgent need of defini- tion. It is another way of expressing “reaction to injury,” if by injury we intend to imply that which tends to put an end to life. But it is absurd to say that the reaction is a process of devitalisation, when it is in truth an effort of life to avoid death. In short, there is no possible defini- tion of inflammation so long as we cannot define life. We must content ourselves with studying processes (and much has been done in this way), and as far as may be possible in agreeing that words be used in certain definite senses. If we use the word clinically, let us understand that we mean it clinically. We know, for example, that, pathologi cally, an ulcer is an inflammation, but we also know what we mean when we define it as inflamed. But do not let us convey the use of this clinical term into our pathological investigations. Then let us use it with a certain clear significance which we recognise must be purely conven- tional in our present ignorance. When the reaction of life to its environment is to be called growth, when main- tenance, when stimulation, when inflammation, is not so