6i ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM the introduction of needles, with or without electricity, may be done with practically no danger, and the chances of success are great, because it may safely be pushed to the production of the necessary inflammatory reaction. No introduction of coagulants, whether mechanical or chemical, can for a moment be compared with them, either in safety or efficiency. In the case of the main artery of a limb, when the circulation can be commanded on the proximal side of the aneurism, of which the typical variety is the popliteal, we have at our disposal various plans of treatment. I should myself be inclined, in the first place, to resort to compression ; and of the various forms of compression I should choose that in which the arteries are emptied of blood by the elastic bandage, while the aneurism is kept full. It is advisable in carrying out such treatment that a certain measure of support be afforded to the aneurism, as I have found that from neglect of this precaution great congestion, and even small extrava- sations are apt to occur. If, as may happen, compression fail, I should place next in order of merit the ligature of the main artery. Antiseptic surgery has rendered such an operation so safe, and its efficiency is so great, that I should place it before the means of treatment we are considering. Mr Syme maintained that this ought to be preferred to compression, because if com- pression had been tried the ligature was likely to prove less effective. Of this we have no practical proof, and theoretically a precedent compression ought to add to the safety of ligature without impairing its efficiency, even if Dr Reid’s method be adopted. Lastly, in such cases I should adopt one of the methods we are discussing, and, as the case of J. A. shows, the resources of civilisation are not even then exhausted—we can still lay open the sac. But aneurism may occur on the main artery of a limb where arre.stment of circulation on the proximal side is still possible, but more difficult and dangerous. There is, for example, the aneurism of the axillary or common femoral. Compression here loses its value, because either of its diffi- culty or danger. Shall we then open the sac, or ligature on