PAIN AS A SYMPTOM OF FRACTURE IO7 should trace these ribs to a distance of some inches. When at this distance from the bruising, firm pressure is made, severe pain will be developed at the fracture if there be fracture, little or none if there be not. It is only necessary to be accurate as to the bone pressed upon. A^ain, fracture of the neck of the femur often gives rise to difficulty in diagnosis. The depth and other conditions of the fracture make it sometimes far from easy to ascertain the crepitus and abnormal mobility, and we therefore rely largely on the deformity, as ascertained by careful measurements and comparisons. I believe that the most experienced men are occasionally deceived. There exists a well-known class of cases, in which, although the absence of eversion and shorten- ing has been at once accurately determined, it is discovered (perhaps after the patient has been moving about with diffi- culty for months) that there is shortening often to a consider- able extent. The explanation commonly given is that chronic interstitial absorption of the neck of the bone has taken place. I do not think that this has been well made out. I would not deny the existence of this interstitial absorption, but it is not easy to understand what physical injury other than fracture would be sufficient to set it up. I believe that a fracture, in which the surfaces are crushed into one another, is more frequent here than is generally supposed, and that in some a considerable amount of absorptive action ensues. But I know also that shortening sometimes comes otherwise than by absorption. I have on several occasions met with cases, of which the following is a type:—An elderly man was admitted to the Infirmary last November, having been knocked down by a horse at Hallow Fair. He had a fracture of the lower end of the right radius, and complained of severe pain in the left hip. There was no shortening, no eversion, no crepitus, but, from the character of the pain, I had a strong suspicion of fracture of the neck of the femur, ordered him to be kept in bed, and had his leg measured once a week. The third measurement showed a shortening of one inch, which had, therefore, occurred between a fortnight and three weeks after the accident. I have notes of two cases in private practice, in which shortening similarly took place in the third and in