ANGIOMA 35 The branches of which cirsoid aneurism is composed enlarge in lumen, and attain a size about that of the radial, rarely larger. In one case, however, a patient of Dr Moir, the middle temporal was enlarged to the size of the little finger. It was the only branch involved, and extended in closely packed folds for four inches from its origin. The case was peculiar also as occurring in a patient beyond middle life. The tortuosity here described is very characteristic. The arteries not only dilate but also lengthen, and thus become tortuous. They so form a distinct tumour tolerably definite in outline, in which the separate arteries can be easily dis- tinguished by touch, winding and twisting round one another like worms. Each artery appears of pretty uniform calibre throughout, but when the tumour is closely bound down, the pressure may hollow out the bone over which it lies, and there may then be observed a tendency to narrowings and dilata- tions. There is here a distinct resemblance to varix, and still more closely in this, that the gutters, in which the diseased arteries run, no doubt are sometimes true grooves in bone, but sometimes, also, as I have found, are due to inflammatory exudation around them. Cirsoid aneurism occurs almost invariably on the head. The temporal artery is the one most commonly affected, but it may occur on the other branches of the external carotid. Mr Spence figures an example in which the arteries of the palm were the seat of the disease. It is a di.sease of the adolescent or young adult. I have never seen it in the child, and it rarely commences beyond middle life. Cirsoid aneurism grows very slowly but somewhat fitfully. It does not tend in any way to spontaneous cure. On the other hand, there is no tendency to spontaneous rupture. This IS due to its slow growth and the consequent absence, as a rule, of inflammatory action. In ca.ses where, from its situa- tion or otherwi.se, it is subjected to pressure, there may be a little^ thickening, but usually the swelling is supple, with an elasticity due entirely to the tension of the arteries. The disease is not therefore dangerous. I have seen one which had existed for twenty years, and was not then larger