1 14 THE CLOSURE OF ABNORMAL ANUS An incision exposed a loop of the intestine gangrenous in its entire circumference, and rent on its convex surface. I divided the stricture and left the bowel in situ. The patient slowly recovered with an abnormal anus capable of admitting two fingers, and through which alone the faeces were dis- charged. She was advised to await a possible natural contraction of the orifice, and I did not again see her till June, 1870. In the interval she had worn a truss, which, however, retained the feces very imperfectly, and during the whole time there had been no passage by the rectum. The artificial anus had not diminished in size, and the septum was distinct and promi- nent. The orifice of the lower portion of the bowel had contracted somewhat, but was large enough to admit the little finger. Instead of using the enterotome, I passed a double silver wire through the septum, about an inch and a half above its free margin. It was left loose for two days, and then one of the wires was gradually tightened, until on the eighth day it ulcerated its way out. The other wire had meanwhile, as I anticipated, become slightly imbedded by reunion of the deeper parts, and it now fulfilled the purpose for which it had been left, in being drawn out through the recent adhesions. The same day feces passed by the rectum, and after a week of considerable irritation, solid motions were regularly and naturally established. The patient was sent to the country, with instructions to remove the truss only for purposes of cleanliness. I again saw her in December, 1871, and was disappointed to find that still no contraction of the orifice had taken place, although (the truss being regularly worn) all the feces passed by the natural route. I repeated the former operation, includ- ing in the wire nearly an inch more of the contiguous walls of intestine. The condition of affairs was not thereby improved, and it was plain that the septum was no longer an impedi- ment to closure. In April, 1872, I therefore performed the following operation :— Having thoroughly cleared out the bowel by purgative and enema, I dissected up the mucous membrane all round