138 TREATMENT OF FRESH WOUNDS 1 have come to this conclusion after trying all sorts of absorbable tubing, catgut, decalcified bone, and other forms. The catgut is unnecessary if the wound be aseptic, is in- efficient if it suppurate. The others last too long if the wound goes on well, melt and soften in a few days in puru- lent discharge. A good example of the behaviour of Neuber’s tubes was seen in an amputation of the ankle. It required no dressing after operating, until at the end of a fortnight I thought we might find it healed. It was so, but the large tube which had been inserted at one corner projected un- altered. I could not withdraw it, because its deeper part was firmly incorporated with the tissue. I pressed the soft parts back, cut the tube off short, and a week afterwards found it covered over. It had simply acted as an impediment to healing, and had been utterly useless from the first, for there was not a tablespoonful of dry blood in the dressings. Drainage, then, I regard as usually unnecessary in aseptic wounds in which the ligature of vessels has been properly performed, and in which the deep surfaces are kept in close contact so as to induce any slight ooze to pass out- wards. Undoubtedly, if accumulation were to take place it would delay healing by keeping surfaces apart, although I do not find that in aseptic cases it tends to cause inflammation or raise the temperature. Still it is to be avoided, and there are wounds in which it is nearly certain to occur if special precautions be not taken. In these, indiarubber or glass is the best material, but it ought to-be removed as soon as possible, and a special dressing for the purpose is advisable on the night of operation or the following day. There yet remains for consideration the influence of putrefaction and its prevention. There are two methods whereby the evils of septicity may be avoided—to prevent the entrance of the germs of putre- faction, and to render the soil unsuitable for theii multipli- cation.’ The first and most important involves all that minute attention to detail in cleanliness and the use of germicides which Mr Lister has so thoroughly established. His dressings fairly accomplish this object, and the results