84 TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE KNEE the published results of other surgeons, is that it ought, meanwhile at least, to be very strictly limited. The cases in which it may legitimately be tried are, in the first place, those only in which a thorough and prolonged treatment by rest has been unsuccessfully employed. If the patients come under observation early, this want of success should be rare. A second limitation should be to those in whom the skin is as yet unbroken ; because the operation being less thorough, the drainage more difficult, and complete ankylosis less sure, recurrence of the disease is more probable, and the risk of the procedure not less than with more radical treatment. Again, it should be employed chiefly in children ; because in them only can the mam advantage, continuance of growth in the limb, be of any avail, and in them only may the accidentally favourable mobility be legitimately in some cases expected. I would not assert that further extension should not be given to the operation in exceptionally favourable cases, when, for example, the personal and family history are free from tubercular taint, the patient is otherwise robust, and the disease slow and not purulent. But youth and asepsis seem to me nearly essential conditions. For other cases of tuberculous arthritis we have the choice between excision and amputation, and I must say that with extended experience I am inclined to increase the number of cases in which I recommend amputation. I suppose that in all cases amputation is comparatively safer, and the point to be determined is where the line should be drawn which indicates that the greater safety is counter- balanced by other advantages. It may plainly vary with variation, either in the element of risk or in the benefit derived by retention of the limb. And first, it may safely be said that the danger attending either amputation or excision in a young and healthy per.son with unbroken skin, is so small that the difference in risk between these operations may be treated as ^ quantity nigligeable. In such, therefore, there can be no doub o the propriety of preserving the limb, provided always that the disease can thus be fairly removed. I should not insis