TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE KNEE 87 miliary tubercle, chiefly in the lungs, a few weeks after- ward. These cases have, I think, sometimes been regarded as septic poisonings, to which, in many respects, the symptoms bear a close analogy. They certainly occur more often than is generally supposed, and especially after operations in which large surfaces of bones are exposed, and in which perfect drainage from these surfaces is in the nature of things impossible. Another mode of infection has also, I think, failed to attract adequate attention. I scraped out the interior of the os calcis, as I thought very thoroughly, in a tuberculous abscess of the interior of that bone, and in doing so succeeded in rendering it aseptic. Four weeks thereafter, and before the wound had nearly healed, tuberculous arthritis of the wrist declared itself, and ultimately required excision. A boy of thirteen years was brought in with very extensive tuber- culous ostitis of the left ulna, which had been going on for many months. He had no other lesion at the time. I removed a large exfoliation and scraped out the interior of the bone throughout nearly its entire length. Shortly after the operation, which was thoroughly successful locally, there appeared one after the other, ostitis of the crest of the right ilium leading to cario-necrosis, necrosis of the right frontal bone, and antero-posterior curvature of the spine in the region of the second dorsal vertebra. I could multiply such cases considerably, and even mention instances in which appar- ently successive showers of diseased material have been deposited from the circulation. These will serve, however, to illustrate the proposition that dissemination occurs after operation, especially in osseous tubercle, not only in the way of miliary tuberculosis, but also in a more limited manner, when the tubercle introduced into the circulation is probably less abundant, and chooses, as it originally did, a .suitable soil for its development. These considerations, then, must form an important element in the determination of the nature of the operation to be attempted. As regards total removal of disease, they are most .serious in connection with arthrectomy, less so in excision, lea.st in amputation. Accidents, again, will plainly