EPITHELIOMA OE THE MOUTH 93 Etiology.—In asking oneself the question, “ What is the cause of epithelioma?” you immediately begin to inquire what are its analogies ? The natural answer would be, “ 1 o other tumours. Nothhig, I think, could be more erroneous. To other malig- nant tumours ? “ Yes.” To tumours in general ? “ A very slight relationship.” Malignant and innocent tumours are essentially distinct. The innocent tumour has its analogy in teratology. It may arise in a “ belated rudiment,” or a big blood-vessel, or a fusion of ova, or in other ways with which we are not con- cerned, for the malignant tumour has nothing to do with them. The innocent tumour grows as an independent entity, pushing aside its weaker brethren. But the malignant tumour has its analogies in inflammation, in syphilis, in tubercle, in glanders, in leprosy, and other diseases of a like type. Their analogies are, indeed, in many respects so close, that it is difficult to withhold assent to the proposition that they ought to be classified etiologically together. I have already pointed out that so far as epithelioma is concerned, it is prone to be confused, specially with the products of three diseases. That, of course, means that their clinical history and appearance present distinct and numerous points of resemblance—so much so that in many cases it is a matter of extreme difficulty to formulate a definite diagnosis. In the first place, they are all distinctly invasive, they eat up their surroundings, and grow by doing so. If, especially with antiseptic precautions, any one watches the course of events after opening a periosteal abscess, he will be greatly struck by the changes which occur. The bone exposed to view is at first white and dead, but presently there spring up the most beautifully delicate pink longitudinal little lines, which slowly increase in size, and ultimately coalesce. The dead white bone has been devoured by the soft granulations which now occupy its place. The same power of destruction is visible in inflammatory action in the syphilitic gumma, in the tuberculous nodule, in the malignant tumour. There are modifications of a specific character, undoubtedly, and there are therefore etiological divergencies, but this similarity is striking and important. But again they are all prone to be carried to, or rather, 1