128 LAPAROTOMY IN TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS less favourable state of the patient, and, while no hard and fast line can be drawn, must influence the prognosis for the better if the product be fibrous, for the worse if purulent Now, we find in tuberculous peritonitis all these varieties, and, as is the case elsewhere, certain definite types of the disease may be differentiated. I. There is, first, a set of cases in which the predominant feature is the miliary character of the tubercle. It appears to be most common in the young. The disease as a whole is most prevalent in early life, but it is common enough at all ages below thirty. I have not met with a case, however, after puberty in which the type was essentially of this kind. The prevalent grey-pink little tubercles vary much in distribution. In one case both the parietal and visceral layers of peritoneum may be thickly studded ; in another they are few in number and cover a limited area, which is usually a portion of the bowel. At such a spot the bowel is markedly reddened, and the coils are often matted with soft adhesions. The parietal peritoneum in several of my cases, as indeed in other varieties also, was much thickened, resembling closely the gelatinous degeneration of tuberculous arthritis ; and when there was not a large quantity of fluid, the bowel surface, having undergone a similar change, was apt to be in places closely adherent to it. The quantit}’- of ascitic fluid is very variable, usually clear and of a pale yellowish hue, though sometimes slightly turbid. It was never entirely absent. Miliary tuberculosis of the peritoneum may, of course, be merely a part of a general tuberculosis, but it is frequently the solitary manifestation. The most usual concomitant is pleuritis. 2. The next typical variety is the fibrous. In it firm and often exceedingly dense adhesions mat the bowels together. In one young man I found the bowels so agglu- tinated that they formed a dense, tolerably smooth mass, movable as a whole, and separated from the anterior wall of the abdomen by a layer of fluid at least 2 in. in depth. This fluid is by no means always present, and in one case, a child aet. 11, there was not obtained more than a tablespoon- ful, and there were numerous adhesions of the bowels to the