46 ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM Case III.—The next patient is probably as good an example as one can have of the effects of the method of per- forming electrolysis in aortic aneurism. J. S., ironmonger, set. 44, a patient of Dr Burns, con- sulted me on 31st December 1871, for a thoracic aneurism, of which the external salience was six inches in diameter. The most prominent part was to the left, where a nodule the size and shape of half an orange at once attracted attention. This had grown very rapidly, was red and angry looking, and on its summit bore a dark blue circle as large as a crown piece, with an inner patch like a threepenny piece denuded of epithelium and apparently gangrenous. Next day, ist January 1872, the needles were inserted at 2.14 P.M. They were placed parallel to each other and to the surface of the thorax, one inch and a half apart. One inch of the vulcanised portion of each was embedded, and I was careful that the exposed points moved freely in fluid blood and did not at any time rest against the aneurismal wall. At 2.30 it was observed that the dark blue portion of the tumour was assuming a brown tint, that the size and tension of the part in which the needles lay had increased, and that its nodulated character was diminishing. At 3.5 the blueness had given place to a yellowish brown, the expansile pulsation was much diminished, and | the tension had so increased that a little bloody serum ! began to exude from the patch which had seemed to be ! gangrenous. ; From the first I knew that in using galvano-puncture ^ I ran the risk of hastening ulceration or even of causing immediate rupture of the skin, already to all appearance little thicker than a sheet of paper. I had witnessed already the tension produced by the gaseous and other products which may be so abundant in electrolysis of an aneurism that you can tap out a tympanitic area in the highest portion of the sac. I had determined, therefore, to persevere till I had some assurance that a clot of sufficient thickness to prevent bleeding had shut off the portion upon which I was operating from the rest of the tumour. Now, as such a clot would require to be of J