TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE KNEE 83 been introduced. For six weeks everything progressed admirably, but at the end of that time the parts became slightly swollen, the cicatrix assumed a broad, puffy, bluish appearance, and sinuses with pouting granulations slowly formed, and were only healed by prolonged rest and scrap- ing. The ultimate result in this case, as in the other, was good, but only attained with care and anxiety, and I attri- bute the untoward condition solely to the necessity for maintaining the mobility of the joint by daily movement. Nor can it be said that this movement was excessive, for I avoid entirely the old rough and pump-handle treatment, and confine myself to extension with a light weight during the night, and carriage in a sling with very gradually increased flexion during the day. Now, in arthrectomy of the knee, in which it is difficult to secure osseous ankylosis, because soft parts may be allowed to remain and surfaces are unsuitable, this risk is always present. I have experienced it in two cases. A young woman, one of the five first mentioned, had the synovial membrane very carefully removed by means of long incisions, one on each side of the joint, in May 1886. Union took place by first intention, and for four months the patient wore a pla.ster case. For a time she was able to walk with considerable movement of the joint, but for a year the leg has been under almost constant treatment at home, and when she returned to the Infirmary, two months ago, I felt constrained to excise. Another was yet more unfortunate. In a child, six years old, I employed arthrectomy in May 1888. The joint healed absolutely by first intention, and after healing was enveloped in a starch and poroplastic case. The joint was not again seen till twelve weeks after the operation, when a sudden rise of temperature occurred, and on examination, an abscess was found to have burst and become septic. Under this the child went down so rapidly that, during my absence in September, Mr Hodsdon found himself obliged to amputate to save the patient’s life. My conclusion, therefore, in reference to the operation, based on my own experience of it, and not contradicted by