GERMS AND THE SPRAY 158 contamination from the air has been greatly exaggerated. Putrescence invariably follows a sufficient exposure of putres- cible fluid to the air ; but the germs which float about cannot be extremely numerous if a surface of an inch and a quarter may be exposed for nearly two hours without effect, and if to be reasonably certain of putrescence a surface of three inches and a quarter requires an exposure of twenty minutes. The conclusion evidently is, that in the matter of wounds our prime object ought to be the attainment of the most ab- solute purity in all substances brought into actual contact with them, while the rare contamination which may come through the air is guarded against by washing with antiseptic solutions or by giving the germicide powers of the living textures a fair opportunity of coming into play. This con- clusion is amply confirmed by the results of those who have not used the spray. The success of Keith and Lawson Tait in ovariotomy, and the statistics of Spence and Callender, not unrivalled by many others, in general surgery, are thus ex- plained. If, then, it be taken for granted that the spray is ineffec- tive, other points for investigation are opened up. I hope to lay before you shortly the results of some researches in which I am at present engaged as to the germicide property of the vapours thrown off at different temperatures by various anti- septics. The volatility of the antiseptic used in a dressing has been considered of some importance. I have already pointed out that this is not sufficient to outweigh other con- siderations, and that the efficiency of a dressing depends rather on its material and on the ability of the antiseptic so to mingle with the fluids that they become unsuitable for the development of microzymes. I have ascertained, however, that the vapours of carbolic acid and eucalyptus, among others, are germicide at the temperature of the body. It is possible that in this direction we may discover a sub- stitute for the spray, as, for example, by rendering aseptic the air of the operating chamber. It has already been proposed by Mr M'Gill to pump upon the wound the vapour of eucalyptus. The following experiments, however, indicate that this is not sufficient.