56 ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM strength of the current as well as the period of contact and of operation within moderate limits. The last operation of this kind was performed on 20th June 1890. From that time for two years there was .steady improvement. The pulsation was distant and heaving, not expansile, and the tumour much smaller. From 1892 till the end of 1893 it remained stationary. For three years, in short, she had gone about her ordinary duties and work at her home in Berwickshire, and came in twice a year to let us register progress. In June 1893 I noted, “My impression is that there has been little change either way for about a year, but she is so well that it seems unnecessary to interfere.” Early in 1894, however, it became evident that the tumour was enlarging and the pulsation stronger, and after a time, when the deterioration became more rapid, she returned to the Infirmary. On three occasions, with intervals of a fort- night, I operated according to Mr Macewen’s directions, using on the first occasion four, on the second six, and on the third eight needles. I think there can be no doubt that some thickening of the wall took place. It did not last, however, and I had determined to introduce the needles again, when the patient was urgently summoned home on account of ill- ness there. In June she returned, and the needles were again intro- duced on four occasions. This time there was little effect, and she was again obliged to go home. She did not return, and died from the effects of the internal pressure of the aneurism.* We tried at different operations the effect of lengthening the time and varying the number of the needles. We were disappointed to find that when the needles were kept in longer than five or six hours there was very considerable redness and swelling of the skin round some of them, and that in the latter series of operations this was on more than one occasion positively alarming. It must, of course, be noted that by that time the disease was getting far advanced, and * The author evidently forgot that Mrs Y. returned to the Infimiarj’ and died there. The specimen, which is in my museum, shows the aneurismal sac to be almost entirely filled with laminated clot.—Ed.