EPITHELIOMA OF THE MOUTH 99 is_May cancer be cured by removal ? We answer it, in the first place, by saying that the fact that it has come to its present site through the blood is no more an argument ao-ainst attempting its removal than against the excision of a^strumous knee, while its greater tendency to be solitary is a point in favour of cancer. But we answer, secondarily, that experience is in favour of interference. In each case we have to consider first. Can it be cured ? second. Can relief be given either in the form of prolongation of life or freedom from pain by means of operation ? I shall cite only facts which have come within my own experience. I shall not confine myself to epithelioma, because what may be pre- dicated in this respect of one form of malignant disease may within certain limits be applied to others. To have any value the diagnosis in cases of cure must be beyond suspicion. I shall quote, therefore, only examples in which the clinical character and microscopic appearances have been studied by others besides myself The first case of scirrhus of the mamma in which I removed the breast, occurred in 1867, and the patient, a lady under the care of the late Dr Warburton Begbie, lived for twenty years, and died at the age of 73 of apoplexy. Naturally I took much interest in it at the time. The symptoms were unequivocal, and sections of the tumour were examined by myself and several pathologists, among others by my friend Dr Wyllie. Another patient in whom I removed the mamma in 1870, and in whom the same definite determination of the disease was made, died of hemiplegia after fifteen years. A very interesting case was that of an Infirmary patient in whom I excised the left mamma and glands in 1882. She returned five years afterwards with scirrhus of the right, the left remaining perfectly sound. That was also with the glands excised. Two years afterwards she returned with a malignant mass high up in the right axilla. To remove it, it was necessary to take away portions of both the axillary artery and vein. I had a letter from her four years after- wards, from which it seemed not unlikely that her lungs had become affected, but in which she told me that the left side remained perfectly well, and that on the right side her only