6 ANGIOMA and in other parts the cutaneous follicles and glands in great part disappear. In some cases, indeed, this goes so far that the spontaneous or surgical cure of a naevus leaves behind a condition of skin somewhat scar-like in appearance. This atrophic, semi-inflammatory action advances to the destruc- tion of such capillary walls as may be brought into immediate contact with one another, and so opens up communication between them. Such abnormal communications are known sometimes to open up even between large arteries and veins. It seems not unlikely that the cases of aneurismal varix with- out traumatic origin are of this character. At least it is known that abnormal vascular communications may form in a quiet way and perfectly direct. It is, therefore, from analogy probable that the reticulation of a naevus is thus brought about. I have myself only had the opportunity of examining those in which the meshwork was completel)' formed, and in which there remained no possibility of recog- nising the original capillary structure. This is not the case in the cutaneous forms. In them there is often a pure multi- plication and dilatation. It is easy to verify this fact b)' putting parts on the stretch. You have then displayed a most beautiful network of visible capillaries, often in parallel rows, with perhaps a winding arteriole or dilated vein. But other observers acknowledge the intermediate stages in all varieties. Billroth, for instance, describes the plexiform and cavernous. Recklinghausen, Paget, and others, while also pointing out that some naevi consist of a mass of tortuous and dilated capillaries and others of erectile tissue, explain that in the former there is multiplication, not merely dilatation of vessels. They describe this multiplication as taking place in two ways : by the extrusion of buds from the pre-existent vessels, and by the formation of new blood-paths in the tissues. Rindfleisch holds the process to be a cell infiltration, possibly inflammatory, of the connective tissue, which by subsequent contraction drags upon and dilates the vessels. This last explanation of the pathology has difficulties in the way of its adoption. At the same time, the naevus has distinct relationships to inflammation. It is, for example, peculiarly prone to become inflamed under such cau.ses of