GERMS AND THE SPRAY 151 blood is comparatively common; if it be the cause, their great frequency in acute abscess would indicate either their constant presence in the circulating fluid, or that very slight disturb- ance of the general economy may afford the necessary con- ditions. It appears certain, then, that we have here what I have called a leak in the antiseptic system. It is certain that organisms are frequently found in discharges apparently aseptic. It is proved that similar organisms easily enter the economy otherwise than by a wound. It is proved that organisms thus entering may produce local effects of varying degrees of severity, and are prone to attack injured textures. It is proved that they almost invariably attend acute inflam- mation. Is the conclusion not warranted that they some- times present themselves by this means in surgical injuries, and that the severity of the resultant effects will be deter- mined by the same causes as influence them under other circumstances ? What these causes are we have yet in some measure to determine. Some of them, at least, we know ; others we can only conjecture. We know that moisture and warmth favour the multiplication of these organisms, and that dryness and drainage are inimical to them. We know that the healthy textures may absorb a certain quantity of fluid, may destroy a certain number of microbia, but that beyond a certain point their germicide power does not extend. We believe that very various properties belong to different germs, whether from innate generic and specific attributes, or as the results of cultivation, natural or artificial. The results of moisture, of warmth, of drainage, of tissue health, of differing potencies, apply with equal force to germs which come from within and from without. My observations as to the presence of bacteria in wounds suggest to me that they are less harm- ful when they occur under antiseptic dressings than otherwise. May it be that their passage through the blood often deprives them of a portion of their virulence, or is it that the forms harmless to the blood are so also to the tissues more or less ? I excised a knee-joint for anchylosis in complete flexion. The wound healed in less than three weeks, and after the first day or two was dressed only once a week, while the