CLASSIFICATION OF ULCERS 69 A classification from appearance or from the morbid anatomy must often leave out of account the true and essential factor, without which the ulcer would not exist, and a complete etiological classification is impossible, because the etiology of many ulcers is very complex, because the funda- mental or primary cause is frequently overlaid by the accidental, and because different causes may produce very similar results. Moreover, our knowledge of intimate pro- cesses is insufficient for either method. We are practically, therefore, driven to use both plans, and in doing so the fact has too often been missed that they are essentially distinct, and that the attempt to use them together must fail because they are not mutually exclusive. The consequence is a hap- hazard list of ulcers, incomprehensive and confused because perpetually overlapping. But if we take care to keep them apart, both systems may be of signal use to us. Let us take first the consideration of ulcers according to the phenomena they present. In that case, by much the most convenient way is to refer them to what is called the healthy or healing sore. Some have said, “ That is not an ulcer at all. An ulcer means destruction of texture, this is reparation. They are not comparable conditions.” The argument is unsound, because the healthy sore is that process by which nature heals a breach of surface, and to which you therefore desire to bring your ulcer in order that it may heal. Naturally, therefore, you say to yourself, “ How does this particular ulcer depart from the typical and desirable form ; why has it done so, and by what means can I bring it into line ? ” I need not describe to you the healing sore—that you get fully in all your books. We study it in its surroundings, its edges, its base, and its discharge, and we refer to it in saying this or that ulcer departs from the healthy in one or more of these respects. Now an ulcer is an ulcer, i.e., departs from the healing type, because a proce.ss of inflammatory destruction usually is going on in it, and a cla.ssification according to its condition is therefore largely determined by the character and degree