166 WOUND TREATMENT WITHOUT THE SI'RAV fourth week an abscess slowly enlarged the stump of the ureter, and, although we succeeded in opening it from the vagina, it subsequently formed a communication with the bowel, and the patient died exhausted seven weeks after the operation. But to return, the surgery of the abdomen shows that although it is certain, from the long continuance of the operation, that germs from the atmosphere must obtain access to the wound, they will not propagate themselves unless they be of peculiar virulence and in unusual numbers. I suppose that no one proposes that in the abdomen we should wash the parts with any antiseptic whatever. The certainty of producing inflammation and the risk of poisoning the patient forbid it. Some surgeons still maintain a fond belief in the spray, and cover the abdomen with a mist of carbolic solution. But their results are not better than those of others who do not. Here, then, in abdominal surgery we have facts which inevitably lead to the conclusion that the use of antiseptics, for the purpose of destroying germs in the atmosphere, or even sometimes after they have lit in the wound, is unnecessary, ineffectual, and even dangerous. May we then argue from this to ordinary surgical wounds ? Is there a difference so great between the surgery of the abdomen and that of the rest of the body that a diverse practice should be followed in the one and in the other? It appears to me that this point is still undecided. I have abandoned the spray in all cases, with what results this paper is designed to show. It is useless and inconvenient. Ma}' we also abandon the washing of the wound with an antiseptic. I believe that in the great majority of cases no evil would follow. But I have no doubt also that a certain percentage would become septic which would not otherwise do so. That is the case in the abdomen, spray or no spray. Every now and again the ovariotomist has to fight septic inflammation and septic poisoning by drainage, and suction, and ice-caps, and other things. And so it is in general surgery, with a certain additional disadvantage in the fact that the whole surface of the wound is an oozing surface, and that the soil is therefore more suitable for the development of germs.