23 ANGIOMA positive pole, if of steel, requires resharpening after each operation, because it is acted upon electrolytically. Both poles should be introduced, because in that way you get most work in the shortest time. I place the positive needle in a portion of the tumour where it can do no harm, and will not interfere with subsequent manipulation. I may perhaps alter its position once or twice in the course of an operation. It does little, though useful and firm work. The negative, on the contrary, I hold constantly in my hand, and move about from place to place. Its action is diffuse, and therefore the more valuable, but also naturally requiring to be watched lest it reach the skin. If the needles be left stationary, the amount of action dimini.shes after a few minutes, on account of the slough with which they surround themselves. It is necessary to watch very closely the growing induration round each needle. It increases slightly even after the needles are withdrawn, and the action must be stopped before the skin is involved. Perhaps this is the only part of the opera- tion which presents any difficulty in which experience is of value, and in reference to which it is difficult to convey the results of experience to others. The amount of swelling of the tumour and the doughy tension whereby you judge, are not easy to describe. The chief criterion, however, to my mind is the first delicate change of colour in the skin. In early operations it is well not to go so far as this. In any case it indicates that you have reached the utmost limit, and the needles must be at once withdrawn. If the needles be very slowly withdrawn while the battery is still working, so as to cauterise slightly their track, not a single drop of blood will flow. If this be not done, it is neces- sary to apply gentle pressure for a few minutes. The punctures should then be covered with a little anti- septic wool and flexile collodion, and if there be the least suspicion that the action has been carried too far, and the skin cauterised, this covering should be extended over all. In large njevi, too much must not be done at one sitting or in one situation. The slough has to be absorbed, and it is better to establish several small subcutaneous sloughs at different parts than a great mass at one.