20 ANGIOMA affected persists for a certain time, and I think will occasion- ally prove permanent. These results give a general idea of the value of the method. By far the larger number of the nsvi so treated were situated on the head and neck, for the reasons I have already detailed. One or two examples, in addition to those which I have published already, may be adduced to show its applicability to cases which could not otherwise have been subjected to treatment. Thus, a little girl two years of age was brought to me with a nsevus occupying the whole thickness of the cheek, extend- ing backwards to the auricle, which it had enlarged in the upper part to the size of a walnut. It required seven opera- tions to produce a cure, but the ultimate result was most satisfactory. Although the skin over the greater part of the swelling was much discoloured, it improved pari passu with the subcutaneous portion, and in the end presented very little even of that excessive whiteness to which I have before referred. Nsevi are frequent enough in the interior of the mouth. Usually they are extensions of external tumours through the thickness of the cheek, or by direct superficial continuity over the lips. They occur independently, however, and I have used electrolysis with success in the tongue, the soft palate, and the inner surface of the lower lip. In such cases a gag must be used, and it is necessary to attend carefully to the precautions for the prevention of bleeding from the little punctures after the needles are withdrawn. I had m one case to introduce a stitch. Again, a child, aged three years, had a nsevoid tumour ol the foot. It involved the greater part of the outer margin, and penetrated from sole to dorsum between the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. The growth entirely disappeared after four applications of electrolysis. In a private case, a patient of Dr Taylor, the lu^evus not only occupied the soft tissues of the foot, but had occupied and distended the fourth metatarsal bone to such an exten that the needles could be passed througli it as through parch- ment. After the cure by electrolysis, the toe, as the child