98 EinTMELIOMA OF THE MOUTH sarcoma, in the papilloma with the epithelioma, but there is nothing incongruous with known facts in recognising the origin of malignant disease in irritated texture, or its power to induce such forms of tissue production as the locality in which it exists is capable of developing. A sarcoma in bone provokes osseous formation, in the parotid or testicle may show signs of cartilaginous tissue such as is not uncommon in these regions as an innocent growth. 7. There is no blood dyscrasia before the appearance of the local disease. But in tubercle, and syphilis, and hydro- phobia, does not the same hold good? It is not essential that the microzyme should multiply in the blood or produce immediate palpable effects because it has passed through it. When it finds its proper place it multiplies at that place, and the blood becomes poisoned by the products of its growth through secondary absorption. In short, I know no fact in the history of malignant disease which is incompatible with a microbic origin, and such a hypothesis explains the phenomena more completely than any other theory of its etiology. On more than one occasion recently, the discovery of the microbe concerned has been announced. The probability is that exact proof of etiological connection will be exceedingly difficult to obtain. It must be a germ of wide distribution and considerable abundance. It is one capable of existence in some form outside the human body, as perhaps may be said of all, and it is certainly one which requires for its growth a highly specialised soil. The difficulty of fulfilling the conditions of its existence is so great that we must necessarily be prepared for a long period of doubtfulness. Has this not been the case with the much easier tubercle bacillus and with that comma bacillus whose relation to cholera is not yet abso- lutely determined. But the probability is very great that by patience and time its existence will yet be determined. Treatine7tt.—With such views of its etiolog}'-, what course is to be taken by the surgeon in dealing with the disease? Undoubtedly our a priori reasoning must have an influence on our practice, but as undoubtedly the ultimate decision must be chiefly empirical. The question we ask ourselves