WOUND TREATMENT WITHOUT THE SPRAY l6^ wound. My house-surgeon, Mr Wilson, has devised a tube of plaited catgut, which I think will meet our requirements. It can be made of any thickness or thinness, of material which will quickly disappear or of lasting character. If made with a large lumen it permits the escape of fluids as easily as an indiarubber tube of the same calibre, and for the same reason, and because of its loose texture, the granulations eat it up more easily and quickly than an ordinary skene of catgut or a decalcified bone. It will not last sufficiently to serve in a septic case. Then we must use indiarubber or glass. I have wished to make these observations because I formerly left too much out of account the rare cases in which evil arises from want of drainage, and because, of course, the result of any method of wound treatment must be thereby modified. But to return to our subject. The place to be held by the various germicides in the treatment of .septic wounds is a question of great interest, and which has been by no means decided. Which is best for this purpose? In what form is it to be applied ? Is the application to be constant or inter- mittent ? Are they to be used with a curative or palliative object in view ? Is the possibility of further contamination to be prevented by dressings ? These and a thousand other questions are constantly pressing, and have not yet been adequately considered. I hope to return to them. Mean- time I confine myself in this paper to the treatment of recent wounds. I need not recapitulate here the arguments which led me to prefer a dry absorbent and elastic dressing, which retains Its antiseptic properties for an indefinite period. Nor need I detain you with a resume of laboratory experiments, which went to show that the spray, as spray, was not germicide. I take these for granted. Fortunately, during an operation a wound becomes con- taminated far more frequently by contact than through the air. The surgeon’s fingers, instruments, coat-sleeves, blankets, towels, sponges, such are the sources of putrefactive mischief. First, then, it is essential that whatever may come in