I 2 ANGIOMA line, and then abruptly stop; but, on the other hand, they also frequently cross it more or less extensively. Diagnosis.— It is impossible to mistake those in which the cutaneous portion forms a prominent feature for any other form of disease. The mixed variety may be mistaken for meningocele and spina bifida ; the .subcutaneous or degener- ated. for fatty, cystic, and sarcomatous tumours. Undoubtedly the most important diagnostic difficulty arises in cases of meningocele, and I have on several occasions had these meningeal tumours sent me as naevi. I was on one occasion asked to go to the country to electrolyse a naevus which I had not seen, and found that it was a meningocele. The position was not without unpleasant features. The skin over a meningocele is frequently in appearance indis- tinguishable from that over a naevus. In both it may be quite unaltered, but in both it may present the same bluish-red hue from dilated blood-vessels ; and although the meningocele is more prone to have a livid transparency, and to be traversed b}^ large veins, yet even when these characters are marked it requires some practice to recognise them, because, after all, it is a matter of degree. The consistence of both is often very similar, and the degree of compressibility may be identical, varying according to the size of the orifice in meningocele, the rigidity of texture in neevus. The mere fact that the growth occurs in the middle line should always put one on guard. Na;vi, it is true, are found in the middle line. I have seen them in every situation where a meningocele may be, from the root of the nose backwards to the occipital protuberance. Situation decides nothing. But the meningocele is seen nowhere else. In that line, therefore, lies the difficulty. Cohesion to the bone calls for additional care. If absolutely mobile it is a naevus. But often it is not ea.sy to determine the mobility; and I have seen a naevus over the anterior fontanelle rigidly adherent to, and no doubt involving, the membrane, as it did the skin. If on compression a neck-like connection, and .still more certainly if the contour of the con- necting orifice can be felt, a very important point of distinc- tion is made out. If a distinct history that it is not absolutely '-ongenital can be obtained, it will go far toestabli.sh its naevoid