41 ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM blood corpuscles are shrivelled, crenated, or altogether destroyed. These conclusions were obtained from experiments made in 1867 by Professor Fraser and myself on various albuminous fluids, and on defibrinated blood, and by the passage of galvanic currents through the living blood in the arteries of dogs. It was then shown, in confirmation of the results obtained by Smee and others, that the products at the posi- tive pole were chiefly due to oxygen and acids, at the nega- tive, to hydrogen and bases. These observations have been strongly supported by what has been found after electrolytic operations on aneurism. Indeed, the thin tarry fluid which I mention above first forced itself on my attention during one of these operations. We had previously, although recognising it in our experiments, not appreciated its amount and clinical importance. We have found, also, that in a closed vessel the upper portion becomes occupied by oxygen and hydrogen. In aneurism, for example, a tympanitic area can be mapped out, increasing as the operation progresses. It is plain that the fluid and gaseous portions of the electrolyte can be of no curative value, but rather detracts therefrom, and that a useful result can be obtained only by the coagulum at the positive and the froth at the negative pole. Of these, the former is durable but small; the latter is large, but immediately after its formation begins to contract by absorption of the bells of hydrogen entangled in it. It is evident from these considerations that an aneurism may be cured through electrolysis, if there be complete and immediate occupation of the sac by the solid products, and if the aneurismal wall contract in proportion to the shrinkage of the clot. Or alternatively, it may be cured because the artificial production of solid material provokes to the sub- sequent deposition of laminated fibrin. But it is also evident that the blood stream may re-enter the sac by mingling with the fluid product, or because the froth contracts more rapidly than the aneurismal wall; or again, that, if the blood be of non-coagulating quality, the solid matter introduced may fail to induce further deposition of clot or fibrin.