PAIN AS A SYMPTOM OF FRACTURE I I I in the body. I have endeavoured to show that in each case of the radius and of the middle of the clavicle. They are both due invariably, or almost invariably, to indirect violence. If a person fall upon the palm of the hand he may sustain one of three injuries from the bending backwards a dis- location of the wrist, a sprain of the joint, and a fracture of the lower end of the radius. The first is so very rare as hardly to be worthy of discussion in the present connection. I have only once seen it; and then, as I was manipulating to define the relations of the styloid processes, the joint slipped into position. I cannot say, therefore, from experi- ence, what the exact situation of tenderness is. Doubtless it is over the joint itself; but doubtless, also, the diagnosis depends on the deformity. As to the means, however, of making a comparative diagnosis between the other two, I am absolutely certain. The characteristic deformity of Colies’ fracture is marked in at least nine cases out of ten, and there is required for diagnosis nothing more than careful inspection. But in the tenth case the deformity is so slight as not to be easily made out, or is masked by the general swelling. It is in the distinction of these more obscure examples from sprain that tenderness plays its role. If there be a fracture, the pain on pressure is most severe above the level of the styloid process of the radius, both before and behind ; if there be a sprain, the pain is in the region of the joint. It is impossible to have anything more definite and pre- cise. In fracture of the clavicle, pain on pressure is also pathog- nomonic. You have only to run your finger along the line of the bone. No doubt, in all cases for purposes of treatment you ascertain whether deformity is present. But that is not necessary for diagnosis, and its absence is not a source of embarrassment. Tenderness here is the important sign; .swelling and deformity come next, and no other sign— neither mobility nor crepitus—need or ought to be sought for. I have not attempted to deal with my subject in an exhaustive manner by going over all the possible fractures