WOUND TREATiMENT WITHOUT THE SPRAV 169 cases which antiseptic surgery has more especially rendered feasible and safe. Take, first, examples of simple osteotomy. Peter Horner, aet. 25, came to the Infirmary on 26th June 1883, on account of knock-knee. Eighteen months before admission he had been operated upon in an English provincial hospital, by removal of a wedge of bone from the inner condyle of the right femur. There was now a sinus which had not healed since the operation, and which led to carious bone. The limb operated on was inverted and bowed, the knee and ankle joints were stiff, and the foot rigidly pointed. An advantage of the carbolic glycerine to which I have not yet referred is its power to correct septicity. I look upon it in this respect as superior to chloride of zinc, and much less irritating if it fail to render the part at once aseptic. In this case the carious bone having been freely exposed was gouged out, and the part being drenched with glycerine at each dressing speedily became aseptic, and after a few weeks healed. The left leg which had been left untouched was now operated upon. It appears to me certain that Mr Macewen’s plan of operation for knock-knee is greatly to be preferred to all its numerous rivals in respect of simplicity, safety, and the subsequent comeliness and usefulness of the limb. The only modification of it which is an improvement is the placing of the incision on the outer instead of the inner side of the limb. If the wound be over the outer condyle, pressure may be applied on the inner side to keep the limb straight, and much less chiselling and force is required to divide the bone. It may be objected that a gap is left at the outer edge of the divided bone. The answer is, that such is the case to a certain extent with both methods, that the union of the fracture never fails, and that what slight lengthening there may be of the limb is not inconvenient. By this plan, then, I operated on Peter Horner. The wound was dressed as has been described, and the limb was placed at rest. I am in the habit of using in knock-knee an apparatus which I find useful both for rectifying the deformity without operation, and also after section of the bone. The double long splint is used with the tie rod at the foot, and