ANGIOMA 9 severe the constitutional disturbance, the more distinct are its effects upon the njevus. The second teething and puberty also are not without influence in conducing to atrophy of these growths. Perhaps, however, the rule is that, modified by these conditions and accidental circumstances, the naevus gradually fades under independent tendencies inherent in its own nature. In some cases, injury or irritant, accidental or surgical, starts the process ; in some it seems entirely un- provoked ; and there are instances of naevi which, after resist- ing many efforts to bring about their cure, have quietly obliterated themselves after these efforts have long ceased. But other changes may occur than those already detailed. The atrophy may proceed irregularly, and portions of the tumour becoming blocked off from the circulation may form cysts. These cysts present contents, in the shape of altered blood, which differ little from those of cysts arising in conse- quence of blood extravasation. Perhaps this fluid is usually more thin and watery, and I have not often found the deposit of fibrin round the walls which is .seen in haematocele or extravasation into cellular tissue. They are most often multiple, of varying size, and are surrounded by a quantity of fibrous tissue, the cicatricial remains of the rest of the njevu.s. I am not sure that these cysts are always blocked off and subsequently dilated blood-vessels, because on one occasion I found a cyst whose contents were purely serous mingled with others containing a dark fluid. It is probable that in .some cases at least they are simply an example of the cystic degeneration which may attack every form of tumour. Probably the most frequent degeneration, however, is the fibrous. The na;vus undergoes the fibrous change which I have described as the precedent to natural cure ; but the sub- sequent atrophy and involution fail to take place, or do so only imperfectly. It forms a tumour, then, of no great density, but resembling rather a .somewhat closely-packed connective ti.ssue, more or less distinctly encapsuled. Cases have been recorded in which a sarcomatous change has taken place. Considering the association of malignant disease with different forms of local irritation, it is impossible to deny the po.ssibility of such an occurrence. It is certainly