1/0 WOUND TREATMENT WITHOUT THE SRKAY extension is applied to the limb by weight and pulley. This last aids in diminishing the pressure on the outer condyle, and so allowing its more rapid growth in the child. In the adult after section it tends to steady, wonderfully mitigates the pain of any slight movement, and helps to maintain the proper straightness. But the chief difficulty in the treatment of knock-knee by apparatus is to keep the leg in apposition to the splint. By the slightest eversion the limb eludes the straightening force whether that be rigid or elastic. A little experiment will at once show how this may be avoided. If a long splint be applied to the outer side of a knock-knee, and pressure made to draw the knee to the splint, it will be found that this is easily accomplished, but only because the knee has become slightly everted and flexed, while the heel has separated from the splint. If the heel be held firmly applied to the splint it is impossible to make the knee touch it. I therefore fix the heel by attaching to the lower part of the long splint a little suitably padded wooden trough. In Peter Horner’s case it was impossible to use the double splint, because of the distortion of the right leg. In other respects the apparatus was applied as described. At the end of a fortnight the wound, which had been left open without a drainage-tube, was found to be healed when looked at for the first time. A jointed support was subsequently fitted to his left leg, while a high-heeled boot was adjusted to his right, and he went out after fourteen weeks, walking well with the aid of a stick, a feat which had long been impossible to him. I have selected this case for narration simply because of its intrinsic interest, not because it presented an)'^ peculiaritj in regard to its successful result. All the cases of a similar character have done equally well, viz., two other operations for knock-knee, two of section of the tibia for deformed union of old fracture, one of resection for overgrowth of bone in a stump of the upper arm. They were all healed when the first dressing was removed. Wounds of joints are important from a septic point of view. If they go wrong, the joint is spoiled and the patient in great risk. I have operated once for badly united