ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM 59 On the 12th October I applied a tourniquet and incised the aneurism. I found the cavity, which was as large as the fist, occupied by black clot, with the exception of a space the size of a hazel nut, in which the blood was red and fluid, and which communicated with the vessel. There was a high bifurcation, and a slit-like opening in the popliteal artery lay just above it, so that I was obliged to ligature all these vessels. The wound healed without one drop of pus, and the patient was discharged cured. In reference to electrolysis, the point of interest lies in the fact that on the eighteenth day after the second operation inflammation of the sac set in. We need not consider the strange delay, because, although I do not doubt that this inflammation was in some way connected with the operation, 1 have no hypothesis to offer to account for it. When opera- tions with uninsulated needles have in other hands led to inflammation of the aneurismal sac, death or recovery has usually resulted in less time than marked its beginning in this case. We undoubtedly aimed at producing inflammatory action of a mild character, and obtained it in such a way that, after each operation, satisfactory progress was made with- out pain. As undoubtedly, had I had the courage of my opinions, the aneurism would have been cured had we left it alone after the second operation, because there was no slough- ing and no pus on the one hand, and on the other abundance of clot. But it is, I confess, disconcerting to find that we have to lay our account with a possibility of so acute an inflammatory attack coming on so late in the treatment, even although it must of course be exceptional. If we view in the light of these cases the comparative merits of electrolysis by this method and the process of needling, we may perhaps gain some idea of their respective risks and advantages. It is plain that both aim at bringing about a cure by producing inflammation of the sac. The question to be answered is. Which can do so with least risk and greatest certainty ? I take it that with both there must be a considerable percentage of failure. If the sac be a mass of calcareous plates, or so lined by blood-clot or unorganised material as to prevent the needles being brought into con-