155 GERMS AND THE SPRAY wounds are uncovered, as at the time of operation or the times of dressing, sufficient to protect them? Is the spray, for example, efficient? When engaged in testing wounds by cultivation experiments, I was in the habit of employing flasks for purposes of control. Two flasks, in every respect similar, were brought to the wound, opened and closed simultaneously under the spray, while one was inoculated with discharge and the other not. In two cases both flasks went wrong, and in one the flask which had not been inoculated became septic, while the other remained pure. I began to doubt the spray. A prion one would be strongly inclined to believe that the rapid passage of septic material through an attenuated spray would not be sufficient to neutralise its malevolent properties; and that the passage might often be extremely rapid is very likely. I instituted, therefore, a series of experiments with aseptic solutions. It is hardly necessary to premise that every precaution was taken, in the way of washing with strong antiseptic solutions, not only hands and instruments, but also the coverings and external parts of the vessels before opening and closing them, so as to prevent contamination otherwise than through the air. The following was the method adopted;—A weak solution of Darby’s fluid meat was rendered aseptic by boiling, and incubated. Two similar vessels containing it were opened simultaneously on the same table, one under the spray and the other without the spray, and were kept open for the same time. They were then reclosed and in- cubated at a temperature varying little from 98°. It appeared probable that the fall into the fluid of carbolic solution from the spray might render it an unsuitable soil for germination. Many of the earlier experiments were therefore made with coverings, such as bell jars or sloping or horizontal plates of glass, suspended over the flasks or beakers. It was found, however, that this precaution was unneces.sary, because uncovered vessels over which the spray had been playing for long periods were rendered muddy and putrescent with as great facility as others. I at first used beakers an inch and a quarter wide and two inches in depth. We found that at least twenty minutes’ boiling