17 angioma of sudden death from the injection of coagulants have been recorded. I have on two or three occasions inserted a platinum point or wire into the nsevus, and, having then heated it by means of the electric current, have moved it about with the view of destroying subcutaneously the diseased texture. I do not find, however, that this method possesses sufficient ad- vantage in the way of precision or convenience to make me advise its use in preference to electrolysis in nsevus, although in certain forms of erectile tumour the subcutaneous cautery has merits to which reference will afterwards be made. The subcutaneous destruction of a nsevus, then, is best done by electrolysis, and it only remains to consider what cases are fitted for this treatment, and in what way it may be accomplished. It is necessary, in the first place, clearly to understand what electrolysis actually does, because for our purposes there is, at least in the ultimate results, nothing of the mystery so often attached to electricity. In the Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1867, my friend Pro- fessor Fraser and I gave an account from experiment of the alterations in the blood which are produced by electrolysis, and in another paper I explained its action on the tissues of the body. It may be said shortly that the effect is twofold. There is first the primary electrolysis, whereby the blood and tissues are decomposed into simple constituents, the oxygen and acids appearing at the positive, the hydrogen and bases at the negative electrode. But, secondly, these nascent sub- stances necessarily react on anything with which they have chemical affinity in their neighbourhood, whether that be electrode or tissue; so that, for example, the positive needle in a certain time may be entirely worn away. This secondary electrolysis gives their character to the sloughs produced. At the negative electrode the slough is diffuse, large, very slightly contractile ; at the positive, limited, small, and tending to con- dense in healing ; the one corresponding to an alkaline, the other to an acid cauterisation. Practically, then, in electro- lysing a naevus we introduce subcutaneously so much caustic potash and nitric acid made out of the tissues on the spot. u