IN PLASTIC AND OTHER OPERATIONS HQ result and one only a partial success. The first, in 1876, was and to the right of the middle line. Evidently it was kept open, partly by the movements of the part, but chiefly by the entrance into the fistula of saliva, mucus, and particles of food. I made a simple incision all round, loosened freely, and turned towards the mouth the mucous membrane, and sewed it with buried sutures of catgut, while the external parts were re- tained in position by deep silver and superficial horse-hair stitches. It healed absolutely by first intention. Let me cite only one other example of a similar kind split perinjeum. My first case was that of a lady, the wife of 3^ I;g3.planter, to whom the accident happened in i879> during delivery in Assam. She saw Dr Charles of Calcutta, who advised operation, but as she was on her way home, it was delayed until she came under my care in April 1880. I found the rectum largely involved, and she had no control over the fseces. By linear incision the rectal mucous mem- brane was separated from the vaginal, the vaginal from the skin. Buried Lembert sutures were inserted into the everted mucous membranes, deep stitches of wire drew together the large triangle of raw surface that was left, and the skin was also sewn up superficially. The whole healed without a drop of pus, and she regained control of the feces. On inquiry, I find that she is again in India and perfectly well, but has had no more children. I have repeated the operation with success in four other cases. They are all I have seen, as perinaeal rupture does not come under the care of the general surgeon ; but I think I may say that the operation is the one which is best adapted to this form of traumatism. The plan is more difficult of application in fistula; which have been produced by sloughing. The induration, adhesion, and destruction of parts in such circumstances frequently demand more extensive plastic operations. But when the conditions permit, it is right thus to broaden the raw sur- face. Fistula in perimeo is not a condition that prima facie looks favourable for any form of plastic operation. 1 have, never- theless, applied the method of linear incision in three cases. I feel bound to record them all, because one was disastrous in