TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE KNEE 81 suppose, will contend that it is possible, in such an operation, to insure, or even render probable, the removal of all texture in which the tubercle bacillus exists. Two advantages are claimed for this operation. It is asserted, and with some truth, that, unlike the other methods of operating, it does not interfere with the growth of the limb. This advantage, of course, applies only in the case of children. But it must not be forgotten that arrestment of growth is often the efi'ect of the disease. A very frequent situation for the development of tubercle is the epiphysial junction, and a common result is the ossification or destruc- tion of the point of growth. A second advantage has been claimed for arthrectomy, that mobility of the joint can be thereby preserved. There is in my wards at this moment a young woman on whom I operated nearly three years ago, by removing with scissors and sharp spoon the whole of the gelatinised synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The wound healed by first intention, and, till three weeks ago, she has been able to walk about and freely use her knee without pain up to a right angle. She has come back now because of a little pain from prolonged standing and walking, which has completely sub- sided with a fortnight’s rest. About the same time, in a child, I erased a large part of the external condyle of the femur and the whole of the synovial membrane. It required long rest in splints, but for a year and a half she has been walking about without pain and with slight but useful move- ment of the knee. I look upon these, however, as quite exceptional, and I think that all arthrectomists now advocate prolonged rest after operation, and aim at ankylosis, if not osseous, at least as firmly fibrous as can be obtained. And, undoubtedly, they are right in so aiming. There are great risks in a remanent mobility. I have, in one instance, been obliged to excise the joint in a little boy on whom, a year and a half previously, arthrectomy had been performed by another surgeon. There had followed complete cure of the disease, and the ankylosis was so firmly fibrous that it was only with care that any movement could be detected. Never- theless, under the strain of walking, the knee had gradually