'4 ANGIOMA over, the chance of such an accident is very small in a young child during the period when it is still undetermined whether it will increase or decrease. If ulceration occur from friction of clothing or other cause, repeated small, and .sometimes even severe, bleedings may take place ; and the mere presence of ulceration, therefore, although it also will often heal, and even lead to spontaneous cure, I look upon as sufficient justification for interference. Again, it may be wise to apply treatment in such a case as this :—A child was sent me by Dr Sidey, with a niEvus, mainly subcutaneous, of the root of the nose. I was unable to ascertain that it was increasing, but I applied electrolysis, because the swelling was inducing a squint. Putting aside, however, these cases in which there is risk or harm from its presence, to await the natural cure is the wiser plan in a tumour which is stationary. Expectancy is better and safer than interference. On the other hand, it is right to apply treatment should the nsevus be enlarging. It is impossible to tell what size it may attain ; and the larger a naevus, the more difficult is it to bring about a cure without risk and without scar. The methods of treatment which have been employed are very numerous. I do not intend to discuss them all, but I shall endeavour to point out those which may be usefully applied under different circumstances. There is no method of universal applicability. One is better in one variety, another in another ; and according to the situation and size, different means must be adopted. I .shall discuss them in the following order ;— 1. External application of escharotics or irritants. 2. Subcutaneous application of escharotic.s. 3. Excision. I leave out of account such harmless placebos as the ap- plication of contractile collodion or other form of gentle pressure, which may be applied during the period of expect- ancy, and which may amuse the patient’s friends, and possibly may sometimes aid the natural resolution. I. The external application of escharotics or irritants. There are three conditions under which this form of treatment should be adopted :—