WOUND TREATMENT WITHOUT THE SPRAY 171 fracture of the patella of old standing since I abandoned the spray. Considering the good results that are easily to be obtained by other treatment, and the evil effects that may follow the slightest error on the part of the surgeon or care- lessness on the part of the patient, I think it unjustifiable to suture in recent fracture. When the limb is rendered useless by wide separation of the fragments it is far otherwise. The operation, however, is then difficult. In this case, by section of the quadriceps extensor, I was able to reduce the gap from 2^ inches to half an inch. The wound was dressed the next day on account of serous oozing, when the drainage- tube (inserted in front only) was removed. It was not again seen till it was healed. Of the same character is a case in which I incised the elbow on account of synovitis just become purulent. The temperature immediately fell, the pain disappeared, and the only dressing required was for removal of the drainage-tube a fortnight after the opera- tion. A very good illustration of another class, that of compound fracture, is found in one of the fibula opening into the ankle joint. The tibial malleolus was also broken. My house- surgeon, Mr Wilson, therefore made an opening on the inner side, passed a drainage-tube through the ankle, washed out with carbolic glycerine, and dressed with salicylic wool. I removed the tube next day, the retentive apparatus was kept on for three weeks, the dressings for a week longer, and the patient left in six weeks with a perfectly movable joint. A class of case w'hich tests the value of any proceeding for maintaining a part aseptic is the opening of chronic abscesses. A psoas abscess, from caries of the spine, was recently brought to a successful termination after about six or seven dressings at long intervals, and the efficacy of the plan is all the better illustrated that the treatment was carried out by Mr Hodsdon during my absence from town in the autumn, dhere are at present in the Infirmary two cases of empyema. In both the treatment has been, so far as it has gone, absolutely successful. The wounds are still open, and dressed at intervals, but the temperature is