4 ANGIOMA The}' are slow to pass beyond the tissue or organ in which they began. They encapsule themselves, therefore, with regard to a new structure, and especially to one which is dense, while the}' extend rapidly in the old, whether it be bone, gland, or viscus. So the nsevus. It may become adherent, and may involve fascia. The former occurs under pressure, the latter is very rare. But the anatomical separa- tion, except when inflammatory adhesion arises, is usually distinct. You can strip them off the fascia by tearing, or with }'Our finger. Yet again, a capsule is formed when a subcu- taneous or mixed nsevus is old and retrogrades. There is then no longer any tendency to invasion, and round a nae\'us, as round a bullet, the cellular tissue tends to condense. So far, then, as the capsule is concerned, we find its presence to be irregular. It is never to be found in the cutaneous portion, rarely in a nsevus which is extending with rapidity, but the deep surface of the tumour is usuall}- well defined, and if it be purely subcutaneous it is often in- vested by a capsule throughout. I have said that many naevi melt into their surroundings. The margin, however, both in skin and deeper structures is usually pretty abrupt, whether it be encapsuled or not. Immediately beyond the area of capillary change the tissues are normal. The arteries which supply the growth are very small, but fairly numerous, and the veins, though larger in proportion, attain usuall}' no great size. But in the vascular arrangements there are man}' modifica- tions. Thus it is not unusual for a congenital iijevus to pulsate from the beginning; and I have dissected one of them in which it was possible to isolate, to a certain distance, several tortuous and dilated arterioles throughout the tumour. This may be called the arterial naevus. I have never, however, in the congenital tumour seen any form which corresponds to the cirsoid aneurism, or even to the aneurism by anastomosis of the adult. Similarly there is a venous n$vus, and by the colour it is often possible to sa}' whether, in a particular example, the blood is more largely arterial oi venous. When the skin is affected in the mixed variet}', it is generally easy to trace in it the enlarged venous radicles