ANGIOMA i8 We introduce them in such infinitely minute division, and we so destroy tissue in producing them, that their action is purely local, and they cannot be carried into the circulation, while the small quantity produced is yet extremely potent, because it is nascent. By doing this subcutaneously we avoid the evils of putrefaction, and we conserve the skin. If properly performed, the effect is that, after a little tenderness, the slough is slowly absorbed without suppuration and without mark. The cases in which electrolysis should be used are the mixed and subcutaneous varieties of naevus which are situated on exposed parts of the body, as the face or hands, and those situated elsewhere, which may not be amenable to ligature or excision. This limitation has not been sufficiently defined by those who have since adopted electrolysis, although even on first introducing the method to the profession I deprecated its indiscriminate employment. The advantages of the subcutaneous use of electrolysis in naevi on exposed parts are sufficiently evident. It cures the disease without leaving the slightest trace of its action. The little needle punctures entirely disappear as a prick from any other needle does, and the absorption of the diseased structure is accomplished without the slightest puckering or scar. In bringing about this result it is absolutely safe, and the limits of its action can be more precisely defined than in any other subcutaneous injection or operation. I have now been operating on naevi by this method since 1870, and I find that in that time I have subjected to electrolysis nearly two hundred, so that some idea of the value of the method may be obtained. On an average three operations are required in each case, but experience has enabled me distinctly to diminish the number of sittings by doing more at each without damage to the skin, and by increasing the interval between them to allow of more perfect absorption, and so bring out the full benefit of each operation. In some large n?evi I have operated eight to ten times. I have not had one fatal result or even anxious symptom in any ca.se. The only danger, indeed, is in the anaesthetic.