GERMS AND THE SPRAY 150 The curious experiments in bistournage are doubtless capable of several explanations ; but if they may^ be held to indicate the rarity with which certain organisms are present in quantity in the blood, they indicate, also, their power for evil and the certainty with which, when present in the circulation, they attack tissues devitalised by injury. Dr Burdon Sanderson has asserted that by injection into the peritoneum of aseptic fluid in sufficient quantity bacteria of virulent quality may be there engendered, an experiment which suggests that a certain proportion between the number present in the blood and the amount of local irritation is necessary to ensure their development. Lastly, Dr Ogston’s observations tend to confirm this view. He found in a long series of acute abscesses the invariable presence of chains or groups of micrococci. I have repeated his observations by his methods in most of the abscesses which have come under my care since his paper was published. In three of the acute abscesses, a bubo and two whitlows, I was unable to find organisms ; in the others they were present. All contained micrococci, several contained rod-like bacteria, and one a number of long-jointed rods. I have not found them so commonly in chronic abscesses. In a few, however, they were undoubtedly to be seen. Thus, in two strumous glandular abscesses of the neck and in one of the axilla, I found multitudes of micrococci. Chronic abscess is probably more frequent in the abdomen than elsewhere. Except those connected wit 1 caries of the spine, in which I have only once met with them, organisms, generally bacteria, as well as micrococci are constantly to be found in abdominal abscesses. Two of those which I examined were nephritic abscesses, one being due to the presence of a calculus in the kidney, two were probably from chronic perityphlitis, the others of undeter- mined origin. It is, of course, possible that in some of these cases contamination may have spread from the neighbouiing digestive or urinary tract, and that in others the organisms arrived by the lymph path, but this explanation^ cannot app ) to many. It is impossible to avoid the conclusion that if the abscess be the effect of their presence, their entrance into ic