26 ANGIOMA tive spheres, and I have therefore abandoned it as well as the other methods of ligature. Non-Congenital Capillary Angiomata may be divided, like the congenital, into the simple, the arterial, and the venous, but to these may be added the mixed, to which the name of aneurism by anastomosis may legitimately be given. I. The first variety is the cavernous tumour proper, which consists solely of altered capillaries, in which there is no pulsa- tion or bruit, nor marked venous dilatation. The tissue consists essentially of blood spaces, with free and large inter- communication, the trabeculae composed of white and glisten- ing connective tissue lined with an endothelium continuous with that of the blood-vessels. It is supplied by arteries which, if they be enlarged, are so only immediately before they enter the tumour, and the veins which issue, if dilated at all, soon assume their normal calibre. Perhaps this class of tumour is more frequent in connection with internal organs than exter- nally. It has been described as occurring in the spleen, liver, and elsewhere; but the structure, markedl}^ cavernous, does not appear to differ from the subcutaneous variety in any im- portant respect. When deep seated, they are not amenable to any form of treatment, and are usually not to be diagnosed. The external variety may begin at any age from early youth to middle life. It is of exceedingly slow growth, but with no tendency to retrogression. It has little or no prone- ness to produce ulceration. In some cases it may attain a very large size, but only after long duration. It is ill-defined, tending to the round or oval form, and with a consistence ex- ceedingly like that of a fatty tumour. It is, of course, more or less compressible, but this distinction is not always very easy to make out, because its structure has a good deal of the fibrous in it. A good example of the innocuous character of these tumours I met with in the case of a gentleman from the Highlands, who consulted me with a view to electrolysis. He was 50 years of age, and the tumour had existed for thirty years. It occupied the submaxillary region, reaching from the lobe of the ear to the middle line, and its large size and unsightly appearance made him anxious for its removal. It was of soft consistence and ill-defined, in feeling veiy like