ANGIOMA character ; but the difficulty of obtaining a reliable history is proverbial. Should doubt still remain, the exploring needle may be harmlessly used in either tumour. If clear fluid be obtained, and if the needle be felt free in a cavity, it removes all doubt, but it must not be forgotten that a meningocele blocked off from the interior of the skull may have its fluid reduced to trifling bulk by lymphy deposit on its walls. The same considerations apply to the diagnosis of spina bifida from iijevus. I have twice had cervical meningeal tumours sent me as nrevi ; and on one occasion I had myself great difficulty in arriving at a decision in a case of spina bifida in the lumbar region. I inclined to consider it a naivus, so close was the resemblance in all characters ; but in the end its nature was made clear by an alteration in consist- ence and relative position, which enabled one to distinguish the cleft in the spine. I had abstained even from tapping because the consistence, firm and solid, suggested its natural disappearance in either case. The congenital, or nearly congenital origin, the shape, compressibility, consistence, and situation, serve to distinguish a neevus, even when purely subcutaneous, from other tumours. The sarcoma as it occurs in infants is apt to be extremely va.scular, and to produce discoloration of the skin. It is there- fore most liable to be confounded with naevus, and of this 1 hav’e seen several examples. Treatment.— It cannot be too strongly insisted upon that no naevus in a child should be submitted to treatment unless it be clearly increasing, or, as very rarely happens, doing harm by its presence. The reason for this lies in the fact that the majority of naevi disappear spontaneously, and that, on the whole, nature’s result is as good as any that can be produced by art. The justification for treatment, moreover, is not usually the danger of the disease, but its unsightly aspect. The danger attending these tumours comes from haemorrhage, the result either of wound or ulceration. In the former case it bleeds very freely, nay, even dangerously, but this may be controlled, at lea.st temporarily, by pressure ; and I have known one heal and become permanently cured, after a wound of considerable size produced by a blow on the head. More-