144 TREATMENT OF FRESH WOUNDS lO. J. I., jet. 12.—Excision of the lower end of the humerus on account of old dislocation was performed on 23rd May. A small indiarubber drainage-tube was inserted at the opera- tion, but was removed next day. The wounds were absolutely sound at next inspection on 5th June. But a method is to be judged as much by its failures as by its successes. I mention all my remaining cases in two classes ist, those in which the success was not complete, but in which the patients made exceedingly good progress ; 2nd, those in which, after trial, the method was abandoned. I. 1. G. M‘L., set. 53, was admitted to the Infirmary 15th March 1882, suffering from extensive ulceration of the leg, for which I performed amputation below the knee. At the point of amputation all the tissues were much swollen and oedematous. It was necessary to change the salicylic wool five times in six days on account of the serous exudation having penetrated the dressing. It daily diminished in quantity, however, and the sixth dressing did not require removal for fourteen days, when the stump was found healed. There was no rise of temperature whatever. 2. Mrs M. W., set. 36, had been treated in the Infimary for many weeks on account of disease of the knee-joint, at first with promising results. Subsequently, however, it became evident that she was gradually sinking, partly horn the discharge from the knee, partly from progressing phthisis. I accordingly amputated through the diseased ti^ssu^ where a sinus already existed, by Mr Spence’s method. For ten days the dressings had to be changed every second day on account of the flow of bloody serum. After that the much longer intervals of ten days or more intervened, and the healing, though slow, was ultimately well accomplished. The temperature, which before the operation ha een habitually as high as 101° each evening, never rose above gg° after the operation. r • j fi,.. ■i. D. T. set. 8, 13th March.—In this case I excised the knee-joint on account of progressive disease, and because it was fibrously anchylosed at right angles. The skin was un-