73 CLASSIFICATION OF ULCERS Upwards it is strongly pigmented, and that it and the ulcer are a dark blue-brown. Although you see no salience, you can, by passing your fingers lightly over the surface of the limb, easily distinguish a tortuous internal saphena vein running in an irregular gutter deeply cut in the solid oedema. You have a varicose vein which has impressed its character on the ulcer. Of course this carries you farther back to the question—Why should varicosity produce and maintain a varicose ulcer ? It is not so easily accounted for as one would at first sight suppose. But for our present purpose it suffices that we have here an ulcer which depends upon a variety of causes, and that before you can adequately describe it, you have to call it a varicose ulcer of the leg which has become callous and inflamed. In the same way it is essential for practical purposes that you classify all ulcers on the one hand according to their origin, and next, according to the condition with reference to the healing sore which they present. Thus you have on the leg, ulcers which depend, like the varicose, on circulatory aberrations, such as the senile ulcers connected with atheroma and others, which are associated with neurosis, as that which was described as the cold ulcer by Paget, and which has its relations on the one hand with Raynaud’s disease, on the other with ergotism. You have ulcers which may occur on any parts of the body, as those which are due to the organisms of tubercle, or syphilis, or malignant disease, or which arise from nerve or tissue injury. In short, with a little care, a tolerably complete classification of ulcers may be made on this basis which shall be logical and sound, and only requires to be added to as fresh discovery is made. And so, as I ha-ve already said, you require two concurrent systems of classifica- tion. No doubt every ulcer has a tendency to assume certain forms in virtue of its primary cause. The pale aspect, the blue undermined edges, and the thin discharge of the tuber- culous sore, are very characteristic. But every one of them may, according to circumstances, present very various degrees of inflammation, and may be sloughing, phagedenic, inflamed, weak, or callous. The chief importance of these classifications lies in their