ON LINEAR INCISION AND EVERTING SUTURES II7 red tumour containing pus and gangrenous bowel. He thought it scarcely possible she could live, and simply incised the tumour. Nevertheless she recovered with a preternatural anus, and I ultimately operated with even greater success than’ in the first case, because the wound healed throughout by first intention. Since that time I have not had another opportunity of applying the method to artificial anus. I see from a recent paper that some surgeons still resort to flap methods in these cases, in ignorance, no doubt, of the fact that they never succeed. I suppose that many with greater reason would now adopt the plan of separating the bowel altogether from the abdominal wall, sewing it up and dropping it into the peritoneal cavity. I should myself still prefer my own method as being easier, safer, and not more likely to give rise to subsequent trouble. I have at least so taught up till now, and have at the same time insisted that the principles involved are necessarily correct, and in so far as applicable should be adopted not only in artificial anus, but also in other conditions requiring plastic surgery. I have frequently carried them into practice, and now wish to record not the tedious details of many cases, but a few illustrative examples, fitted to define the circumstances under which these principles may be applied. Recent wounds.—Fresh wounds may be so situated as to involve two surfaces, and some of these may be advantageously treated by modifications of the method. They are often so treated by every one in daily practice, for, like M. Jourdain, we often talk prose without knowing it. Wounds involving serous membranes do not require it. These tissues are prone to adhesive action, and there are good reasons for including the whole thickness of the wound in the sutures. But when mucous membrane and skin are involved it is a matter of moment that inversion of either towards the raw surface be thoroughly obviated, and, especially if the distance between the .surfaces be small, that the depth be increased by suturing the membranous tissues separately and everted. Thus in a case of cut throat, in which the air-passage was almost com- pletely severed at the crico-thyroid membrane, I successfully sutured the mucous membrane by buried sutures, and avoided