Il8 ON LINEAR INCISION AND EVERTING SUTURES the risks of oedema glottidis by tracheotomy. To the same class may be referred suture after suprapubic lithotomy. All are agreed that from various causes it is exceeding difficult in these cases to ensure union by first intention, and that if failure ensue, the patient is worse off than if the wound had been left entirely open. I have not ventured to sew up when the urine was septic, but in three cases in which the urine was aseptic I have stitched the bladder wound closely with Lembert sutures, and separately the rest of the tissues, draining the bladder and placing a small drainage-tube in the external wound. One case, a boy of lo, was entirely suc- cessful ; one, a man of 32, at the end of a week, passed a few drops of urine for two or three days from the wound ; and the other had to be externally drained for a fortnight. These are simply examples of the same principles being applied to ordinary wounds which I extend to other circum- stances. Fistulce.—Wounds may heal untowardly, and the abnormal union give rise to gaps or fistulae. Most of them are best treated by a linear incision and the separate suture of the surfaces. A typical example is the division of the lobe of the ear produced by avulsion of the ear-ring. I have operated on such on several occasions, once upon both sides in the same person. The following is another instance in pointSome half- dozen years ago, by a regrettable lapse of time, the Royal Infirmary was deprived of the services of my predecessor in the surgeoncy. At that time I entered upon the duties which had previously been discharged by Mr Bell, and shortly afterwards there came to the Infirmary a patient who had been under his care for cut throat and sequential fistula. Efforts had been made to close the fistula, but as they were not successful, he had been sent home to recover strength, with a view to further procedure. He had so prolonged this peiiod that he fell to my care. The fistula was situated immediately above the hyoid bone, and was three-quarters of an inch m length externally, narrowing to less than half-an-inch in- ternally, wdiere it opened betw'een tongue and epiglottis at