162 WOUND TREATMENT WITHOUT THE SEKAV fat, which has been described, chiefly by German authors, as bringing about hernia of the peritoneum also, and which in this case had produced on one side a well-marked lym- phatic inflammation. The bleeding being carefully arrested, the wounds were dressed without drainage. On the right side healing took place by first intention. On the left, slight oozing distended the parts, diffused itself into the surround- ing cellular tissue, and caused sloughing of the thin and inflamed skin which had been dissected from the glands. The wound remained aseptic, but a slow cicatrisation was the result in a case where effective drainage would have insured a speedy cure. Yet again, on 5th February 1884, I excised the wrist, in a girl jet. 15, for fungous arthritis. The skin was yet unbroken, and I used bichloride of mercury as the antiseptic. When sewed up it was absolutely dry. The temperature next day rose to ior5°. If in any case the temperature reach 101°, I regard it as an indication that the wound should be examined. It has become septic, or there is malposition, or tension, or some other local or general disorder. In this case I found the wound tense and red, distended by a dessert-spoonful of bloody serum. A drainage- tube was introduced, the temperature fell at once, and the case required no further care. These were exceptions, no doubt, but they have been sufficient to induce me to resume the habitual use of the drainage-tube in large or deep wounds. That necessitates a dressing for its removal, but this inconvenience is counter- balanced by the avoidance of accidents. I am yet undecided when this dressing ought to be performed. Twenty-four hours is sufficient for drainage in aseptic cases, and I am inclined to think that it is best then to remove the tube. If you leave it for two or three weeks there sometimes comes, in strumous patients, a tedious sinus, although with them, immediately after a wound, suppuration seems as active as in the most healthy and robust. I think it not impossible that we may arrive at a drainage-tube of absorbable material which may meet our wants. Those at pre.sent in use la.st too long and needlessly delay the complete closure of the