ANGIOMA 37 of temporary ligatures and suitable forceps, but it could never be otherwise than dangerous, and often highly so. Ligature may be applied to the chief affluents or to the main trunk. The former is not always possible, when possible is frequently unsuccessful, and is attended by considerable danger. The latter has been successful in pulsatile tumours of the orbit, which are occasionally angiomata, and may reasonably be practised in the case of growths which are otherwise inaccessible. But the main trunk which usually requires ligature is the common carotid, an operation with a high mortality, and curing only about lo per cent. Electrolysis, on the other hand, is both safe and successful. Its safety may be estimated by the fact, that, personally, I have performed the operation without the slightest accident in cases of pulsatile tumour sixty-seven times, and if we add to these aneurism and neevus, on several hundred occasions. I have treated by this means nine cases of cirsoid aneurism. All were cured : two by a single operation, two after three applications of the current, three required four sittings each, one five, and one six. Most of these I have already recorded in the pages of the Edhiburgh Medical Journal. The first, on which I operated in 1866, was large and important. It affected the temporal artery, and was upwards of three inches in diameter, being nearly circular, with a pear-shaped neck below. It was cured in four operations. Mr Syme had declined to interfere by operation, and when I, after the cure, sent the patient to be examined by him, I had the gratification to receive from him a note, in which he said the case marked a distinct advance in the treatment of these growths. Another patient on whom I have operated was a young man of 25, who came to the Infirmary in 1885 from Glasgow, where he is a clerk in a merchant’s office. The tumour was one of the posterior auricular, which had existed for several years. It was upwards of two inches in diameter, and was unusual in that its limits were somewhat undefined, and that it had produced some absorption of the bone. The pulsation and bruit were very marked, and it communicated above the ear with a branch of the temporal. Three sittings, with an interval between each of about ten weeks, seemingly affected