TREATMENT OF FRESH WOUNDS I4I the wool, irregularly hardened by the dried blood, forms a sort of cuirass and is apt to stick. I have tried silk instead of wool as a dry dressing. It does not, however, produce the same equal pressure throughout. I have now used this dressing in a large number of cases, which I desire shortly to enumerate. I. For long I have been in the habit of using a modifica- tion of the method in small wounds, whether produced by accident or by the surgeon. Having smeared them with carbolised oil, as the least irritating of antiseptic applications, and, if necessary, applied stitches, I seal them completely up with salicylic wool and flexile collodion. In. cases too numerous to relate the healing has been perfect, and the failures extremely few. In large accidental wounds the dry dressing described is very successful. Thus, in two cases of immense scalp wound, and in one in which the belly of the supinator longus was completely torn across, only the one dressing was required. Septic matter, however, is apt to be introduced in such injuries. Thus, in a severe compound fracture opening into the elbow-joint, and in an extensive lacerated wound of the thigh, the dressing was abandoned for a time on account of suppuration, though both ultimately healed exceedingly well. II. The following are examples of perfect healing in operations of a minor character. By perfect healing I mean that which occurs where there has been no rise of tempera- ture, no pain, and no necessity for change of dressing till the wound is closed :— a. Six amputations of the fingers for injury. b. An amputation of the middle finger for whitlow in E. T., set. 62, admitted 17th March, dismissed 8th April 1882. I mention this specially as a case in which septic inflamma- tion extending far into the palm was successfully corrected by chloride of zinc. c. Three cases of operation for strangulated hernia, viz., C. F., aet. 27, admitted 26th January; W. R., set. 27, admitted 8th March; and C. G., aet. 84, admitted 14th March. d. J. M‘T., aet. 17, excision of sesamoid bone of great toe. Admitted ist I'ebruary.