LAPAROTOMY IN TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS 129 wall, as well as to each other. As may readily be understood, these adhesions may lead to obstruction of the bowels. As already mentioned, I have twice had to operate in such a condition, once with complete success. The other, a child ffit. 8, I saw with the late Dr Bruce. I found the fibrous matting so dense and firm, that, after a most patient attempt to separate the coils, I was obliged to abandon the operation, and the child ultimately died unrelieved. Such results are, however, unusual, and I think it may be said that the fibrous change is probably the most frequent of nature’s modes of cure. 3. Another form of the disease is that in which the new granulation tissue or lymphy material becomes exuberant. On palpating the abdomen, irregular indurations of various size may often be felt, and a large quantity of fluid recog- nised. On incision the fluid escapes, and large masses of lymph are found loose or adherent. In one case, a young man, set. 29, on completing the opening, multitudes of loose bodies, of the size and appearance of over-ripe white grapes, flowed with the fluid from the abdomen; while, after they had been evacuated, further bunches of them in large numbers could be easily separated from the wall and intestines. In another, a little girl, one of Dr Affleck’s patients, although there were none absolutely loose, thick patches of soft, smooth, nodulated lymph, from i to 3 in. in extent, were scattered over the abdomen. Many of them with a little care could be peeled off. 4. A certain proportion of cases exhibit a tendency to suppuration. This occurs usually in pockets among the intestines, the purulence of caseated lymph, and of course may give rise to all the serious accidents connected with abdominal suppuration. The caseation and suppuration of mesenteric glands is perhaps less frequently associated with tuberculous peritonitis than the nature of the disease would lead one to expect. It is evident that, while these may be taken as types and separated for purposes of description, they must yet present a great tendency to run into one another, and that even in the same case there may be present at the same l