WOUND TREATMENT WITHOUT TEIE SPRAY 165 they are very numerous or powerfully vitalised, or if, on the other, the tissues with which they struggle are naturally weak or artificially devitalised, the microzymes will propagate themselves. Otherwise they will not. Were it not for this, there would in the old days have been no possibility of healing by the first intention, and yet it was common enough when the wound was small, and not rare even when it was large. The tissues, then, are germicide. Is it possible to trust to this in our ordinary surgical practice? It is proved by the experience of many surgeons that we may do so in abdominal surgery. A woman, aet. 21, was sent to me by Dr Angus Macdonald, suffering from pyo-nephritis. The tumour had begun eight months before, inflammation spreading up from the bladder during the last weeks of a pregnancy. It was now of large size, reaching past the middle line of the abdomen. I operated by the median incision, and had no difficulty in removing the enlarged kidney. No antiseptics whatever were used to protect the wound during the operation, although, of course, the most scrupulous care in dressing and in all other respects was observed. It is certain that sepsis did not occur, because a glass drainage-tube was kept in for three days, and the teaspoonful of serum, which was twice a day sucked up through it, was always carefully examined. The wound was healed in a fortnight, and the patient was out of bed in three weeks. The sequel of the case is so interesting that it seems worthy of a digression. At the time of the operation I tied the greatly thickened ureter in two places, and divided it low down in the abdomen, between the ligatures. A few drops of pus exuded, which were carefully mopped up, and the cut end touched with carbolic glycerine. Had I correctly estimated the meaning of these drops of pus, viz., that there was communication between the ureter and the pelvis of the kidney, and had I borne in mind that for weeks the urine had been perfecdy free from pus, although in the early days of the disease it had been highly purulent, I should have understood that obstruction of the ureter existed below the spot at which I had divided it. The result was that in the