ANGIOMA 34 Venotis A ngioma—Phlebectasis. We have seen in connection with both congenital and non- congenital varieties of angioma that dilatation of the veins may form an important though secondary part of the tumour, but I do not know that there exists an angioma, composed of and developed from veins, in the sense that naevus or cirsoid aneurism may be called angioma. Varix, of course, might by a straining of terms be here included. But it is so essentially different in character, etiology, and treatment from all these, that it seems inevitable to put it in a place apart. While, therefore, for the sake of symmetry I mention the venous angioma, I do so only to explain that these commonly used terms really apply to tumours in the structure of which venous metamorphosis plays a part, it may even be an important, but not an essential or original part. Arterial Angioma—Cirsoid Aneurism. In cirsoid aneurism we have a form of vascular tumour capable of being differentiated clinically and pathologically with great accuracy. It is composed of the enlarged branches of an arterial trunk. Usually the smaller branches only are affected, but if the tumour attain a large size, the main artery supplying the part also becomes dilated. Thus, in a large cirsoid aneurism of the middle temporal, I have seen not only the temporal artery involved, but even the common carotid half as large again as the artery on the other side. Sometimes the tumour is fed by branches of other arteries with which its own may normally anastomose. In the case just mentioned, long and greatly enlarged branches of the occipital and of the temporal of the other side could be traced to the tumour from their point of origin. The term aneurism by anastomosis has been applied by some writers to this in- volvement of other arteries. But the variety presents no im- portant pathological or clinical distinction, and requires no special terminology. I have preferred to use that term as it was used by Bell and others to designate a form of cavernous tumour.