GERMS AND THE SPRAY 149 ments were made whereby errors in these respects were to a certain extent eliminated. The various methods of staining came to be at our disposal, and the use of different cultivating fluids was practised. The results did not even then accurately correspond, but at least it was possible, from first to last, to err on the side of caution, and accept as truly septic only those cases in which no doubt could possibly exist. I was astonished, during the research, to find that in more than half the cases, most of which I had hitherto regarded as aseptic, organisms could be at one time or other discovered. My first idea was, of course, that this arose from defective skill in the management of antiseptics. But in any case it was a matter of importance. If the error were manipulative, then the difficulty of manipulation was so great as to make the treatment un- suited for common use ; if not, there was a leak in the Listerian hypothesis. Precautions in the treatment were redoubled, and, to check my own results, I obtained from my colleagues dressings from cases which they believed aseptic. The percentage was somewhat reduced, but yet I found that about forty per cent, was the proportion which I could not by any means diminish, and that, in short, almost every case which was not after the first day or two absolutely dry, showed organisms in the fluid exuded. It was impossible to continue in the belief that the fault lay solely, or even mainly, in defect of manipulative skill. Did they come, then, from within the body or from without? Was it, or was it not, a result of imperfection in the methods of Listerism ? And first, do they come from within ? There are various experiments and observations which bear upon this point. That organisms of various kinds easily find their way into the blood by other channels than by palpable wounds may be held as certain. We have in evidence the whole class of zymotic disease, and more especially those in which the presence of microzymes has been directly demonstrated. That from the blood they may pass into and develop dangerous energy in the ti.ssues, the published cases of endocarditis and osteomyelitis sufficiently testify.