ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM 48 delighted to see the tumour slowly diminish, and the ulcer begin again to cicatrise very rapidly. Earl)' in March, however, it became evident that the aneurism was enlarging internally. Blueness of the lips and cheeks, oedema of the neck, shoulders, and right arm, dyspnoea and alteration in the quality of the voice, were the gradually increasing signs of its growth. The case seemed hopeless; but I was about again to introduce the needles, when a fresh misfortune occurred. The little sore over the sternum was now (23rd March) about the size of a split-pea. It was attacked on that day by erysipelas, resulting in septic cellulitis ; thereafter he gradually sank, aiid died on 12th April. I shall not enter into a further description of the cases of aortic aneurism in which I have used electrolysis. None of them have been cured ; but I think, in every one, there has followed the same diminished pulsation, and in most, diminu- tion of the tumour. The duration of the diminished pulsation has been curiously variable. In some it returns partially, in others in full force, within twenty-four hours. But with the majority, the history is, as in L.’s case, of a slow increase of pulsation after a varying number of weeks, accompanied by an increase in size, which indicates that, after a period of im- provement, the aneurism is again progressing. I think it is not of much use to discuss statistics. Ever\-- thing of value is said in that respect when it is stated that the greater number of cases are in their results similar to m)' own ; that the deaths directly due to the operation, or even hastened in any degree by it, were the effect of the plan of manipulation adopted by the ojaerators ; but that, on the other hand, complete success is claimed in five or six cases out of a total of perhaps a hundred aortic aneurisms which have been thus treated. We are now, it seems to me, in a position to forni some estimate of the value of electrolysis as it has been hitherto performed in an aortic aneurism. We are dealing, however, with a condition the natural history of which must be carefully studied before we ^ can definitely determine the role of electrol)'sis. The prognosis is.