TREATMENT OF FRESH WOUNDS 142 e. C. L., act. 27, admitted 20th June 1881. Excision of adenoid tumour of the mamma. f. An interesting extension of the principles involved was made in the application of the method to the opening of abscesses where there is no persistent cause of pus formation, and where pressure can be accurately adjusted. Most of them were out-patients, but these may be mentioned as admitted to the house A. P., aet. 29, nth March; abscess of the spermatic cord ; found healed on the tenth day, the dressing not having been removed till that time; J. L., aet. 7, nth January, large glandular abscess of neck; and E. F., 1st March, deep abscess of axilla, in whom the same success was attained. g. J. B., aet. 38, admitted 30th March. The actual cautery was applied for ulceration of the cartilage in the knee-joint, with good effect so far as the joint was concerned. The wound was looked at simply from curiosity only twice, with intervals of fourteen and twenty-one days. III. The following are examples of perfect healing after major operations;— 1. Mrs B., aet. 34, a patient of Dr Soutar of Golspie. The family history was most unfavourable, and she had tubercle in the apices of the lungs. Amputation of the forearm was performed for disease of the wrist. The incisions were made through healthy textures. The dressing was not removed for three weeks, when the wound was found perfectly healed, with only a little dried blood in the dressing. 2. J. C., aet. 19, admitted 14th June 1881. Symes ampu- tation at the ankle was performed for disease of the tarsus. The dressing was removed after a fortnight, as a matter of curiosity, not that it was required. A superficial abrasion at one corner alone remained. The dressing was renewe , and it was found healed in another week. 3. D. L., St. 37, admitted ist December 1881. In this case the patient was rapidly sinking from strumous disease of the right wrist, right ankle, and third toe of the left oot. The wrist and toe were treated, after amputation, y e method I have described, while the ankle was otheirvise dressed. The amputation at the ankle was performed