25 ANGIOMA never in any case be justifiable to produce a scar on the face or neck, and perform formidable operations on account of a disease which in itself is practically without risk, which fre- quently disappears spontaneously, and which by other methods and with a little patience may be cured without a mark and with perfect safety. Practically electrolysis and excision occupy the whole ground in the treatment of nffivus. On the exposed portions of the body, electrolysis is certain and safe, and, above all, leaves no scar. But it has the disadvantage of being .slow and often requiring repetition. On the covered parts of the body, excision is rapid and effectual. Its disad- vantage is that it leaves a scar. Moreover, even on the covered parts of the body, when the naevus is large or deep seated, the safety of electrolysis entirely outweighs the rapidity of excision. It will be seen, therefore, that what was once a favourite plan of treating naevus, the ligature, has now lost its field of usefulness. There may be a few suitable cases of compara- tively small naevi in which the skin is much affected, and the subcutaneous texture very scanty. Perhaps in some of them the resulting cicatrix may be smaller than that which follows excision, and they are difficult to cure by electrolysis without a scar. As a rule, however, even on the face, excision is better than ligature. If ligature be used, the best plan is to place under the tumour two crossed needles, and to let out the blood by puncture while the silk is being tightened as strongly as possible. The strictest antiseptic precautions having been used, the whole is then covered by antiseptic wool and flexile collodion or celloidin, kept fixed down by daily touching at the margin with fresh material. In one or two very large and prominent nzevi I have tried subcutaneous ligature, both with silk and elastic thread. The cord is passed under the skin round the base of the naevus, and the object is to cut off the tumour from its deeper affluents and leave it to be nourished from the skin only. The method is, no doubt, capable of producing a cure, but it completely failed with me in a large naevus of the buttock. I do not think it is equal to excision and electrolysis in their respec-