172 WOUN’D TREATMENT WITHOUT THE SPRAY normal, and the pus scanty, pure, and sweet. In such cases the patient is directed to hold the breath while the dressing is changed. Formerly, while I had faith in the spray, I used often to allow the air to whistle in and out of the opening for considerable periods, while examining the patient or demonstrating to students. Most of my cases became septic, with increase of temperature and pus formation, as one would now anticipate, considering the inefficacy of carbolic spray as a germicide. I cannot conclude this list of cases without referring to one of which, doubtless, the fatal termination is not far off, but which illustrates the safety of the method. The patient, a young woman of 26, had suffered for a year from sarcoma of the skull. It was nearly two inches in diameter, and so round and well defined that by some who saw it, it was regarded as a cyst. It had produced double optic neuritis and intense headache, but no other cerebral symptom what- ever. I determined to expose it, and ascertain if it were removable. I found that at isolated spots, over an area of five inches, little portions of the skull were softened by sarcomatous tissue emerging from the diploe. I closed the wound, and five days afterwards, because the patient was anxious to return home as soon as possible, we removed the dressing, and found that healing was practically accom- plished. But lest I become tedious, I close this history of success- ful cases. They are sufficient to establish the proposition that the method is effective in maintaining parts aseptic if properly carried out. I have still a word to say as to failures. The comparative frequency of these often means simply the idiosyncrasy of individuals concerned in the management of the cases, and, indeed, there are very different records in this respect through- out my Infirmary experience. I lay little stre.ss, therefore, on their number as the test of a method of treatment, but when analysed they may yet afford Information. I have first to record four deaths among patients treated by this plan. These were cases of trephining, of nephrectomy, of double amputation, and of amputation at the elbow. The