91 epithelioma of the mouth debris of food, and other matters which can only serve to confuse, and then, taking a little of the surface, squeezed it between a slide and cover glass. Perhaps it is well to take a laro-er and deeper portion for hardening and staining, but I doubt myself whether greater certainty is thereby attained, and it is not so quick and convenient. We have found by careful examination, in this case, nothing but granulation cells, blood cells, and debris. Now in epithelioma you find either cell nests or cells of epithelial type, tending often to the ovoid, some granular from fatty degeneration, others with huge and lustrous nuclei and nucleoli. I do not say that these things are pathognomonic. I doubt whether anything shoit of careful examination of a whole growth, if always even that will enable the microscopist to give a decided opinion. But if in a case with the clinical character of epithelioma you find these cells, it makes your diagnosis sure, and if in such a case as this, with the points in the history, situation, and appearance to which I have referred, you find that they are absent, it may safely be assumed that it is not epithelioma. If not epithelioma, we came then speedily to the conclusion that it was a tertiary syphilitic sore. It was plainly not irritation, for there was no cause of irritation, and its appeal- ance and situation negatived the supposition that it was tuberculous. I directed, accordingly, that the patient should frequently wash the ulcer with a weak solution of bichloride of mercury, while internally the same drug was administered in combina- tion with iodide of potassium. In a month he returned home with the ulcer absolutely healed. Tuberculous ulcers are not so liable to be confounded with epithelioma. If anywhere, however, they may present dififi- culties in the tongue. They are undoubtedly rare in that situation, but the following is a well-ascertained example. D. P., aet. 51, admitted November 25, 1886. He had suffered for more than six months from an ulcer of the tongue, which had from time to time got “better and worse.” He was always a heavy smoker, but had given it up since the tongue became sore. On the anterior portion of the dorsum of the tongue was a