94 KPITllKLIOMA OF THE MOUTH should say, to appear secondarily in distant organs. Some follow the course of the blood path, .some pass along the lymphatics more easily, but they have this property in common, that being so conveyed, they breed their like wherever they may find themselves provided with a soil favourable to their growth. Yet, again, is there not histologically a very close resem- blance among them? Is granulation tissue not the type to which they must all be referred ? Are there not gradations so infinite that no rnicroscopist can tell when one begins and the other ends? It is certain that in a multitude of cases the most careful examination of the histology is only valuable when aided by a knowledge of the situation and history of the tissue which is being examined. With points of similarity such as these it is impossible to come to any other conclusion than that they have some strong analogy in their etiology. Now we know that tubercle is the result of irritation by a bacillus ; we cannot avoid the conclusion that syphilis is due to a contagiuvi vivtnn, and in inflammation the presence of a microzyme can usually be demonstrated. I believe that the time will come when malignant disease will be proved to have a similar origin.* Before adopting such a hypothesis, even when probability is so strongly in its favour, it is essential that it should be capable of explaining more or less completely the known facts, and that it should not be incompatible with any. That it fits in with the invasive power and the secondary develop- ments of malignant disease, I have already shown. Let us see if there are any characters with which it cannot be reconciled. The difficulties in the way of accepting the microbic theory of the disease may be summed up in the following points;—Epithelioma is said not to be contagious. If it be taken along with other malignant diseases to which it^ is closely allied, there is presented a variety of form which can hardly be attributed to a single microzyme. It is undoubtedly prone to be excited by irritation. It has a tendency to be hereditary. The primary tumour is usually * This was written about 1888.—Ed.