ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM 52 1. Insulated needles may be introduced into the sac and an attempt made to touch the aneurismal wall at various parts with the exposed points of the needles. 2. Fine uninsulated needles may be used and the sac cauterised only at their point of entry. 3. Fine wire may be introduced through a canula, and a current of electricity then passed through it. It is plain that these methods are thus brought into con- trast with the plan of introducing wire or other material and leaving it permanently inside, and with that of simply intro- ducing needles in a temporary way and for the purpose of causing irritation of the sac. It is probable that only experience can ultimately decide between these various plans, but on a prion grounds it seems unlikely that the permanent retention of foreign material inside an aneurismal sac will turn out to be the best method, whether accompanied or not by the passage of a current of electricity. Its continuous presence would be extremely apt to render the inflammation excessive, and it is certain that it must tend to interfere with that contraction of the walls which is so important to permanent cure. It would seem, therefore, that so far as operative measures are concerned, we shall ultimately have to decide between the methods of irritating the interior of the sac by electrolysis and by scratching with a needle. If electrolysis be used (in view of the five cases of recorded cure), I should think that in aortic aneurism, before it has penetrated the thoracic wall, the best plan would be to pass exceedingly fine needles and transmit a moderate current through them for a short time. I do not see any advantage in Ciniselli’s plan of alternating the current. Its sole result is to diminish electrolysis—that can be attained by shortening the time. On the other hand, where there is a sac outside the thorax, the larger insulated needles should be used, so as to avoid cauterising the needle track, and to enable the sac to be touched in various places by their exposed points. From their greater rigidity they are more easily manipulated. In comparing electrolysis with the mode of using needles suggested by Mr Macewen, we have no sufficient data to go