54 ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM aneurism, both on a priori grounds and as the result of experience, expressed the opinion that the introduction of wire, or such like solid material, with or without the passage of an electric current, has little likelihood of being adopted. In external aneurism, the introduction of chemical coagulants must, I think, be regarded in the same light. They cannot, of course, be used except in cases in which the circulation can be arrested for a sufficient time. My experience is confined to seeing the introduction of perchloride of iron into a gluteal aneurism performed successfully by Nelaton upwards of thirty years ago. But I have seen a good deal of the use of both iron and carbolic acid in naevus varix, and other blood tumours, and my impression is that they are difficult to manage, that they are apt to do too much or too little. If that be the case in angioma, it is certain that in aneurism they would prove even more unruly. There remain, therefore, the two subcutaneous methods to which I have already referred—electrolysis and MrMacewen’s operation of needling. On the respective merits of the two methods it is yet too soon to form an opinion. As a contri- bution thereto, I offer three cases, which I have already pub- lished elsewhere, but which will bear repetition in abstract. One was a traumatic aneurism of the radial, which was effectively cured by electrolysis. I do not mention it because I consider this the best method of treating such a condition, but because it was the first case in which the modification was made of using the needles not merely for the purpose of coagulating the blood, but also of cauterising the sac. Case IV.—In 1888 I received into the Infirmary Mrs Y., set. 47, suffering from aneurism of the innominate and first part of the subclavian. Various medical plans of treatment had been tried without success. On 26th June 1888 I operated according to the plan which I had so often previously emploj^ed. A current from six large Bunsen cells was passed for thirt}’-five minutes through insulated needles. Chloroform was not administered, and except from the introduction of the needles, the patient experienced no pain. The effect of the operation v as an im-