GERMS AND THE SPRAY 157 size aseptic without causing such evaporation as to reduce the quantity of fluid and increase its concentration too much for any useful purpose. By many experiments we came to the conclusion that this was due to the quantity of fluid, and not to the shape of the vessel or its proportion to the amount of contained liquid. I am unable to explain this curious fact, but it is indubitable that in proportion to the size of the beaker we required from twenty to ninety minutes to attain an aseptic state with fair certainty. We overcame the diffi- culty by Mr Tyndall’s plan of interrupted boiling, and we found, after many attempts, that we could insure success with beakers of any size by boiling five times, for one minute each time, at intervals of twelve hours. Beakers of 3^ inches were now, therefore, tried. It was found that up to twenty minutes’ exposure they occasionally remained clear. Beyond that limit I have not succeeded in maintaining a single example unclouded, nine having been used on each side, four with twenty-five, and five with thirty minutes’ exposure. I do not know that it will be necessary to multiply these experiments. I am unable to see where error can creep in. They seem to me definitely to prove that, so far as the de- struction of floating germs in the air is concerned, the spray is perfectly ineffectual.* It may be a convenient method of throwing a .solution of carbolic acid of the strength of one to forty upon a wound. It may thus be useful in open wounds, but it can be of little value in such operations as those which deal with deep cavities. Nay, I should think it likely to prove more injurious than beneficial in such cases. If you make the spray play across a beam of sunlight, you can see the floating dust in clouds rushing towards and being whirled along with it, so that one can hardly doubt that the margin of the spray is the most dangerous position in which a wound can be placed, and that a slight deflection from a current of air may result in the entrance of this floating matter to recesses where the solution deposited by the spray may never reach. But these same experiments also show that the risk oif * Vide Lord Lister’s Address before the International Medical Con- gress at Berlin—British Medical Jour7iaI^ vol. ii., 1890.—Ed.