173 WOUND TREATMENT WITHOUT THE SPRAY compound fracture of the skull died in six days of extensive cerebral injury, as discovered on post-mortem examination, when, also, the wound was found almost healed and perfectly aseptic. The nephrectomy has already been referred to. The amputation of thigh and leg died the same night from his internal injuries. The amputation of the elbow is the only one which can be placed to the discredit of the treatment. It was per- formed in a woman, aet. 72, for sarcoma of the ulna. The wound immediately became septic, a considerable amount of cellulitis followed, and the patient died on the twenty- ninth day, worn out by the pain, inflammation, and discharge. The lesson to be drawn from it is one which may be enforced by two other cases in which, although recovery ensued, the local accidents were identical. One was a double amputation, tarso-metatarsal on the one side, below the knee on the other. The foot healed with one dressing, but the leg, although making an admirable stump in the end, was attacked by sloughing cellulitis. At the time of the operation I observed, too late, that a serious error had been committed by one of the assistants, which of necessity conveyed septic material to the wound. This I endeavoured to remedy afterwards by injecting it forcibly with carbolic glycerine after the sutures had been inserted. It is curious how slowly a lesson of this sort is learned. I had seen the same result in other hands with other antiseptics, and I had injected with a like effect in the amputation of the elbow for a precisely similar reason. Of course I had done it in others without mischance. The sloughing occurs if the injection be unsuccessful. The combined effect of septicity and antiseptics is too much for any tissue. The third case was similar. A compound Pott’s fracture of the fibula with opening of the ankle joint was injected with carbolic glycerine. In this case it was not the force used, but the absence of a drainage-tube, which led to cellulitis. It has recovered well, though slowly, but the antiseptics, too long kept in contact with the texture, did harm when the part became .septic. This ca.se contrasted strongly with the other com- pound fracture into the ankle joint, which I have already