95 EPITHELIOMA OF THE MOUTH solitary. There is no distinct line of demarcation between innocent and malignant tumours. There is no blood dys- crasia. No micro-organism has been discovered. Let us take these in their order, and consider how far they may tell for or against the hypothesis. I. It is by no means proved that epithelioma is not I have myself watched two cases in which malignant disease of the penis in the husband followed the same disease of the uterus in the wife. In one of them I do not know with certainty that the uterine disease was of the epitheliomatous variety, although certainly malignant. In the other both were undoubtedly epitheliomata. The wife was known to have it for one year before her death. The husband showed it to me, already of some size, four months after her death. He lived for two years. Other cases of a similar nature have been repeatedly recorded. It looks probable from the known facts that inoculation requires an abrasion and prolonged contact, conditions which are compatible with analogy. But admitting for the moment that it is not contagious by inoculation, such fact is no proof that it does not belong to the zymotic class. There are undoubtedly two great divisions of that class. In one the disease enters by the circulatory fluid, in the other by inoculation only. Again, having entered the blood, there are some microzymes which multiply therein and affect the other tissues secondarily, while some are innocuous in the blood, and find their breeding ground only when conveyed by it to a suitable soil. Take, for example, scarlatina or relapsing fever, and tetanus or hydrophobia, as types of the two classes. Undoubtedly the contagious property, in some shape or other, is characteristic, but the proof of this in tubercle is of very recent date, and so far as its capability in the human being of breeding after inoculation is concerned, the arguments are little stronger for tubercle than for cancer. Contagiousness, then, is probable, and the absence of proof is not incompatible with the microbic hypothesis, for the particular form of microzyme may require a precedent sojourn in the blood, or a special preparedness of soil.