8o TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE KNEE tuberculous arthritis become septic, the prognosis becomes at once most serious, and the too frequent result is exhaustion, hectic, amyloid degeneration, and death. Such, then, is the common history of a hospital patient with tuberculous disease of the knee. I do not deny that the disease may be arrested spontaneously, even in the poor, at any stage of its progress. But with them it is a dangerous disease, and we have often to consider what measures should be taken when rest fails, either because it cannot be adequately or long enough applied, or because the important hygienic adjuvants are wanting. These cir- cumstances naturally, also, may determine the sequence and period of application of these measures, both in relation to rest and to each other. If, then, rest fail from one cause or another, surgerj' has three operative resources. I say nothing of simple incision. If it be time to incise in tuberculous arthritis of the knee, it is time to go further, for its curative value is less than, and its risk nearly as great as, that of other operative measures. The three operations are :— 1. Partial excision. 2. Complete excision. 3. Amputation. Let us take them in that order. Partial excision is a method of operating of ancient date, rendered obsolete for a time by complete excision, but revived in improved form under the name of arthrectomy. The reason for the revival is the increased safety which is given to it by the antiseptic system. That system has so reduced the mortality of all these forms of operation as to make it an element of much less importance than it was formerly in determining the choice between them. ^ Arthrectomy, then, or partial excision, consists in the removal of all palpable and obvious portions of diseased texture, whether in synovial membrane or elsewhere, without regard ’to what is left, provided only it be apparently sound. That, I think, is a not unfair description of the operation, and I use the words palpable and obvious, because no one, I