136 TREATMENT OF FRESH WOUNDS fulfilled their mission in ten days; and unless the tension be very great indeed, and the union very sluggish, I find they may be safely removed in that time. Plainly, then, catgut, especially if chromicised, may be used to unite the buttons instead of silver wire. When it is absorbed the buttons will lie harmlessly under the dressings, in simple contact with the skin. I have used this means of buttoning in cases where the tension was really considerable, and with admirable effect; but I have not yet ventured to discard wire when much force was required. I have, in short, long given up every suture but catgut for the edges of a wound, and only occasionally use the silver wire and buttons for relaxation. If, then, we can get a dressing which otherwise we may leave on indefinitely, there is little impediment in the sutures. In most cases catgut may be used, and in the others a renewal of the dressing at the end of a fortnight will allow of their removal. This limitation, however, there is from the side of the suture. Drainage is in many respects an admirable invention, and in some aspects the recognition of the principle it involves is one of the most marked improvements of modern surgery. But I have no doubt whatever that it may be carried too far. In suppurating and septic wounds it may easily become a source of irritation. As a rule, in these cases, if a drainage- tube have not fulfilled its purpose in a week, the meaning is that it is badly placed or insufficient, and in any case that a new departure must be made. In fresh wounds, again, it is evident that if we can approximate the condition to that of a bruise we have little need for drainage. No one would think for a moment of converting a simple into a compound fracture merely with the object of evacuating the blood and relieving tension. The tension and extravasation of blood is often very ex- tensive after severe contusion, but we await absorption with the most perfect confidence, certain that suppuration will not occur unless the conditions of constitutional health or local destruction of tissue be highly unfavourable. Now, after an injury inflicted by the surgeon, although in many