ANGIOMA 7 inflammation as friction or traumatism ; and we are in the habit of utilising this tendency for the purpose of cure. In the cutaneous form, again, which is specially apt to last into adult life, and so give time for such developments instead of an atrophy of the intervascular textures, there is frequently an overgrowth. This, in some instances, assumes the form of fibrous nodules and outgrowths, while in others an association may be noted with another variety of congenital aberration, the hairy mole. Clinical History.—Naevus is generally described as con- genital. In some cases, indeed, it is so. But, as a rule, there is nothing visible at birth, or it may be only a slight stain re- sembling a bruise. It declares itself, however, in a few days, a fortnight at the latest; and it may be said that it does not commence after that period. It is very variable in its rate of growth. At first it may be exceedingly rapid. It may attain a very large size, but it does so early, if at all. After the first few months of life its increase is generally propor- tional to that of the rest of the body, more often less than more. Frequently it remains without increase. There is always a great tendency to spontaneous disap- pearance on the part of the subcutaneous and mixed varieties. Certainly more than half are thus naturally cured. It is, indeed, rare to find in the adult a nsevus of this kind. This no doubt is partly due to the interference of the surgeon, which is specially successful in these forms, but also arises from spontaneous involution, to which probably the surgeon’s .success may in part be attributed. There are instances, however, in which the disease persists through life. The cutaneous variety, for example, the port- wine stain, as it is called, is exceedingly persistent. This is especially the case on the face, and notably when it is associ- ated with moles or hypertrophies. It is unfortunate that it is precisely in these cases that the surgeon’s art is least avail- able, the persistence being partly a cause, partly a conse- quence, of that fact. But the subcutaneous and mixed varieties also sometimes, though rarely, fail to go away. I have already referred to Dr Bell’s unique case of venous telangiectasis as a notable example. I describe eksewhere