2 I ANGIOMA grew, became considerably recessed. It is the only occasion on which I have recognised naevus of bone. A child, six months old, was brought to me from London, with a rapidly growing naevus of the right arm, which reached from shoulder to wrist, rendering the arm at the elbow one half larger in circumference than the other. It was specially prominent to the front and inner side, but in places extended all round. There was another growing naevus on the left cheek. The latter was easily cured, and the one on the arm quickly checked. It had diminished to half its size, when the parents had to return to London, where the late Mr Stevenson continued the treatment at my request. The child was brought to me four years afterwards to see if anything could be done for a faint cutaneous discoloration on the lower part of the forearm, which was all that remained of the tumour. I have selected these cases for mention, because they are typical of varieties of naevus, and because I think that by no other method could they have been cured without risk and without disfigurement. The method of operating is exceed- ingly simple and easy, but requires some care and attention to detail to attain perfect results. It is unnecessary, nowadays, to go into minutiae as to the effects of the different forms of electricity. Any means by which a constant current can be produced will do perfectly well. The strength of the current is of little importance, so long as it lies between 20 and 80 milliamperes. With the one you work slower, with the other faster, and you determine the duration by the effect produced. But it is well in many cases to err on the side of slowness rather than quickness. Tlie quicker you are, the narrower is the margin between sufficient de.struction of the naevus and involvement of skin in the slough. Moreover, the near neighbourhood of important nerves ought to make one exceedingly cautious. I operated on a large nsevus on the upper and outer part of the leg in a young gentleman who was a patient of Dr Foulis. I estimated that at no point were the needles at any time within an inch and a half of the nerve, yet the external popliteal was paralysed for many months, although it ultimately completely recovered.