36 ANGIOMA than a walnut. The risk is chiefly from injury. To wound a structure of this sort would doubtless be speedily fatal, and to arrest the haemorrhage in time would tax the highest surgical skill. But although not dangerous, it is very trouble- some to the patient. It is the seat of a loud bruit, which from its situation on the head is perpetually audible to the patient, in some cases even to the extent of interfering with sleep. The bruit varies in intensity in different examples, from a soft bellows murmur to loud purring with palpable thrill. It is continuous, with a maximum corresponding to the arterial systole. The etiology of the disease is unknown. That it is not degenerative is indicated by the period of its occurrence and by its situation—that is, it arises under conditions which throw strain on a vascularity presumably free from the changes of old age. The extension backwards to the larger trunks is probably due to the demand it makes on the blood supply, for the enlarged carotid already mentioned was at once, in one day, reduced to its normal size by the cure of the tumour. The annoyance to the patient is so great that he is usually anxious to hazard much for a cure. The surgeon, on the other hand, aware of the comparative freedom from danger, is unwilling to interfere, unless he can do so with little risk to life and a certainty of success. Until I indicated the advantages of electrolysis in cirsoid aneurism, the practicable means of treatment were twofold excision and ligature. Although the cautery has been used, it presents many disadvantages, and is not safe, even m regard to haemorrhage. Excision is successful, but very dangerous. The descrip- tions given of such attempts show the formidable character of the operation, which, in some instances, had even to be abandoned in the execution. I have seen one successfully removed from the lower eyelid in a patient of m)'-father s. The gentleman is now alive and well, but the bleeding was most formidable, and the patient for a time in a critical posi- tion. No doubt the safety of such an operation might in some cases, and in some only, be much increased by the use