42 ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM The results of my operations, now including a considerable number of aneurisms, illustrate and confirm these conclusions from experiment. And, first, electrolysis has not in my hands given rise to any untoward effects, so far as the electrolytic process in blood is concerned. The evils that may be apprehended are the carriage into the general circulation of injurious electrolytic products, the production of haemorrhage, and the excitement of inflammation of the sac. So far as I can learn, the first of these possibilities has not happened in the hands of any surgeon. I suppose that the gases and liquids produced are not injurious, and that the solids are of such a character, and so adhere to the needles, and afterwards to the walls, that they are not easily carried away. It is indeed a comparatively rare event that portions of the normal clot become displaced, and perhaps the artificial products may be regarded as having similar probabilities. The chance is not to be left out of account, but it is ver)' unlikely to happen. But haemorrhage and inflammation have occurred, and have been the chief causes of fatal results in the operations of other surgeons. They are produced by the destructive action of the needles upon the tissues through which they pass, and the complete immunity of my own cases is due to care in avoiding the electrolysis of solid textures, and in passing the needles through a part where the wall of the aneurism is of considerable thickness. I have had slight accidents, but without serious conse- quences, and from entirely preventible causes. In one of my early cases guttapercha was used as the insulating medium, and a portion was stripped off in withdrawing the needle. I afterwards picked it out of the subcutaneous texture without evil result. In another case the insulating material was glass, and we were much alarmed by its cracking. In short, until vulcanite was introduced, the coating of the needles gave trouble. In an early case a small subcutaneous abscess formed. We were not then Imbued with antiseptic principles, and I