ANGIOMA 24 1 find that, except in cases where I have been over-cautious and done too little, it is better not to repeat the operation under six weeks. This, however, is to be determined by the rapidity with which the induration may disappear, and by its effect on the growth as a whole. A very small slough may determine involution over a very large area, and so long as that is in progress it should be left alone. Every year I have been tending to lengthen the intervals. Of course one meets with difficulties in this respect. Patients from the country are anxious to get home again. But I am sure it is better to let them go and come back, even though the interval be thereby much lengthened, than to hurry on another operation before you can tell the effect of the first. Excision—a naevus is purely subcutaneous, or when the cutaneous part bears a small proportion to the subcu- taneous, provided always that it is situated on the covered portion of the body, it is best to excise it. The purely sub- cutaneous naevus is not common, but it is very frequent, especially in large growths, to find the skin vascular over perhaps only a third or less of the surface. If it be a large and prominent tumour, and the sides of the wound can be afterwards united by stitches, the diseased skin should be removed with the tumour. If a very large portion of such skin be allowed to remain, it is not always certain to be cured. I have even seen cutaneous extension of the naevus after the subcutaneous part had been removed. Still that is rare. After the naevus has been excised, the vascular skin usually cicatrises perfectly, and slowly assumes a normal hue, and this is always the case if only a small portion be left. I prefer excision in these cases, because by it you have at least a great probability of healing by first intention. There is no slough to separate, as with ligature. There is no repeti- tion of the operation, as with electrolysis. In these cases, moreover, you may rely with some certainty on the piesence of a capsule, which greatly facilitates removal. But even when the capsule is adherent or absent, there is no risk of haemorrhage if you can cut well beyond the margin of the growth, as in most instances it is easy to do. But it is only in these cases that it should be used. It can