58 ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM I applied an elastic bandage according to Dr Reid’s plan. My only previous experience of this method had been in the case of a patient aged 6i, who suddenly, while walking down Leith Street, had experienced violent pain in the popliteal space, which was followed in the course of a few weeks by the formation of an aneurism. The application of the bandage on these occasions for lengthening periods (my colleague, Mr Miller, in charge during my absence, maintained it on the last occasion for six hours) had ended in perfect cure. In our present case, an application of four hours produced absolutel)' no effect on the aneurism, and very seriously increased the popliteal paralysis. I then electrolysed the aneurism on 8th July. The needles seemed to move very freely in fluid blood, and were used gentty to cauterise the wall of the sac in many places. This caused considerable pain, and after five minutes was discontinued, but the needles were maintained for fifteen minutes longer in the centre of the fluid blood, while the current was continued with the view of producing a certain amount of clot. In the early part of the operation a current of 30 milliamperes was used, but during the latter fifteen minutes it was increased to 90, because then, of course, it caused no pain. A very distinct improvement at once ensued, and steadily advanced for some weeks. On I ith September Mr Hodsdon, who was in charge dur- ing my absence, repeated the operation, being satisfied that improvement had ceased. For three weeks, again a steady advance was made, but on the 29th a singular chain of symptoms set in. On that day the patient complained oj pain in the tumour, and his temperature rose at night to 100“. Daily the pain increased, and nightly the temperature rose higher, while the pulsation steadily diminished and the tumour grew firmer. On the loth October it is recorded that the pain was still increasing, that the temperature was 103“, that the tumour had assumed a dusky red hue, was swollen and somewhat doughy, but that pulsation had almost disappeared. It was evident that there was inflammation of the sac, and I hoped for a cure, but the patient was clamorous for relief to his suffering, and after resisting for two days longer, I weakl)- yielded to his urgency.