an improvement in STAPHYLORAPIIY I 23 the roof of the mouth, while the other passes over the bone to form the floor of the nose. Now, while every care is taken by means of the raspatory to separate the periosteum from the bone in the mouth, no attempt whatever is made to loosen the soft parts where they pass into the nose. The consequence is not only tension sufficient frequently to destroy union, but also such a tendency to involution that very often, not raw surfaces, but surfaces of mucous mem- brane, are applied to each other. I have endeavoured to correct this error in the following case, in which the result has been perfectly successful. (3_ M ^ a boy, jet. 10, had been operated on by me for harelip when he was six months old. At that time a fissure cleft the palate from front to back ; now the anterior third of the hard palate has firmly closed. I operated for the cleft palate on August i, 1879, by the following method:—Having pared the edges of the cleft, I made parallel incisions along the alveolar borders, carrying them well back and through them separating the soft parts from the bone. The raspatory was made to pass backwards as far as it would go. It was then withdrawn, and the bistoury, which had been used in paring the edges (a long-handled tenotomy knife), was inserted in its place, and made to divide transversely along the posterior margin of the bone the mucous membrane covering the upper surface of the soft palate. In doing so the point of the knife was guided by the forefinger of the other hand, and passed through the cleft. This incision doubtless cuts, as by Mr Pollock’s method, the whole or great part of the tensor palati, and in doing so materially aids our object ; but the point aimed at as essential was that the mucous membrane should be com- pletely divided towards the cleft, so that on the reintro- duction of the raspatory any fibres of the soft textures still adhering were easily torn away, and the x^hole palate from front to back could be pressed downwards. I was much pleased with the freedom gained. Muscular action, indeed, could still be observed, but I do not think it can be abolished by any form of incision, and I believe it may be sufficiently controlled by a little improvement in the