5 ANGIOMA running over the tumour. Thi.s is doubtless chiefly structural and in the nature of the growth, but may also arise from the same cause which produces venous dilatation in the skin over any rapidly increasing tumour. But there is also a form of congenital naevus in which the very existence of the capillary metamorphosis is masked by the enormous dilatation of the veins. A most remarkable example of this form was exhibited by my colleague, Mr Joseph Bell, to the Medico-Chirurgical Society. The patient was a man of 27. He was, according to his own account, born with dark blue marks on his left shoulder and arm, in which large veins were clearly noticed, and for this was taken to Dr M'Call Anderson when still a baby. There had been no change in the appear- ance of his arm, except a slight extension of the disease, within his recollection. He had fractured the left humerus when twelve years old, but the bone had united perfectly. The skin and subcutaneous tissue from below the left elbow to the shoulder, on the inner and anterior surface, and .stretching across the root of the neck to the middle line, were occupied by a mass of tortuous and dilated veins. Mostly they were soft and compressible, with contractions and enlargements, much as is seen in varix of the leg ; but here and there phleboliths could be felt, and the skin in many parts was distinctly njevoid. In parts also a firmer texture was to be distinguished subcutaneously, which, I think, could only be of cavernous structure. He had applied for relief on account of a swelling under the right sterno-mastoid, which had been coming and going for two years, and which probably was an extension of the growth. Its immense extent, its con- tinuance into adult life, and the size of the veins, which in many parts were as large as the forefinger, made it a most exceptional ca.se. Pathology.—T\\q pathology of the disease is not altogether clear. Presumably the process of formation is somewhat as follows;—The capillaries dilate, and in the process of dilata- tion the intervascular tissue becomes compressed and atrophied. Thi.s atrophic action i.s shown in many ways, even if it might not be predicated a priori. Over a njevus on the .scalp, for example, the hair grows sparsely, .short, and thin •