ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM 49 of course, so grave that it may almost be said that an aortic aneurism produces death unless some other lethal disease intervene. But, on the other hand, it is subject to strange vicissitudes, to rapid advance and remarkable improvement, and this applies alike to the most advanced and the earliest stages. Rupture into the cellular tissue, as I saw in a patient of Dr Balfour’s, nay, even external rupture may occur, and 3^et the patient may live for years. It is the most common experience to see a red nodule form on the surface of an aortic aneurism and even begin to get blue and to desquamate, while yet, presently, when it seems on the very point of burst- ing, the pulsation slowly diminishes, the nodule flattens down and hardens, and the patient improves for the time. An inflamed condition of the sac undoubtedly tends to the forma- tion of “ laminated fibrin.” Now, I do not think the last word has been said about this laminated fibrin. How much of the stratified mass which occupies and occludes an aneurism is lymph poured out by the wall of the sac, how much is deposit from the blood. Think- ing over the experiments that have been made on the coagu- lation of blood, and observing the character and history of the internal change in aneurisms and in blood cysts in general, I cannot avoid coming to the conclusion that strati- fied fibrin is mainly clotted blood. I picture to myself a deposition in layers from the very first, in consequence of the inducement to coagulation being most intense at the peri- phery, and the stratification gradually becoming more marked in the process of organisation upon the clot. Like blood-clot, everywhere it becomes more or less invaded by leucocytes, acts as a scaffold for the growth of granulation tissue, and in this process gets decolorised and organised. I do not know, however, that for our present purpose the precise pathology of stratified fibrin requires to be determined. It is sufficient to understand that an inflammatory state of the wall tends to its formation, and that certain conditions of the wall of the orifice and of the blood are also necessarj^ to a cure. If, for example, the wall of an aneurism be loaded with calcareous plates, it is plain that the inflammatory influence upon the blood must be much less than when the D