153 GERMS AND THE SPRAY failures arising from human fallibility—by our present modes of antiseptic dressing insure the exclusion of external septic influences? And, first, are the materials with which we cover our wounds able to exclude organisms ? It is quite certain that with flasks containing sterilised but putrescible fluids many materials may be used for that purpose with success- It is sufficient to cover with cotton-wool, gauze, or almost any thick or impenetrable material, which has first itself been sterilised. I have found one of the most convenient cover- ings in experiments with such flasks to be a layer of ordinary pink macintosh, because it diminishes evaporation. It is not infallible. If you hold it up to the light, you will see that the waterproofing is often imperfect, that there are minute holes- Sometimes, presumably from this cause, it fails. Thus on one occasion I prepared six large beakers of Darby’s fluid meat, and, having made certain experiments with them, set aside four, which remained aseptic after three days’ incubation. At the end of eleven weeks a delicate globe, like fine wool, began to form in the centre of the fluid in one of them, ten days later in a second, and gradually the whole contents became mouldy, while the other two remained unchanged for several weeks longer, and were at length used for other purposes. The macintosh may fail, then, but it does so very, very rarely ; and I have frequently laid the flasks and beakers on their side for many hours, with the fluid in contact with the macin- tosh, without the contents becoming septic. But it is neces- sary that there be no putrescible channel leading from the outer air to the inner liquid. Such a channel speedily leads to putrescence of the liquid. Thus a flask containing Darby’s fluid beef in aseptic solution was covered with macintosh, incubated, and kept a week. It was then laid on its side for a few minutes. The macintosh was made so tight that only a very little moisture escaped. Again incubated, it still kept clear. But after being kept on its side for twenty-four hours, a hardly perceptible outflow being thus kept up, it rapidly became cloudy on incubation. Some interesting corollaries follow from the.se facts. Among them, for instance, this, that indiarubber and other materials of a like character, when thoroughly purified, may be used.