AN(;iOMA ‘5 (a.) On nose, cheek, or elsewhere, a tiny naevus is sometimes to be seen, not larger than the head of a pin, with little vessels radiating from it. It rarely increases; it usually goes away of itself. But it sometimes persists or grows ; and its cure is so easy and simple, that I think it may be classed among those which ought to be treated whether they are growing or not. To dip a pin in strong nitric acid, and thrust it into the centre of the spot, is at once effectual. The same result may be produced by a heated wire, by a galvanic cautery point, or by the insertion of an electrolysis needle (the negative pole by preference), and the production of a little eschar thereby. The nitric acid or the heated needle are effective and simple. (A) There is a form of naevus which shows itself to be of the mixed variety by its slight elevation, but in which the sub- cutaneous part is exceedingly scanty. When this occurs on the covered portions of the body, it is frequently irritated by the clothes, and becomes obliterated in the centre. But at the margin there may remain a circle of brilliant red, which some- times extends with considerable rapidity. In these cases I have been greatly pleased with the application of the sodium ethylate, as proposed by Sir B. W. Richardson, to the marginal zone. The liquor of the British Pharmacopoeia is a good preparation. It is efficacious, not accompanied by much pain, and leaves a less conspicuous scar than most other powerful escharotics. If flexile collodion and salicylic wool be applied immediately, the eschar separates without suppura- tion, and very often a second application is not required. (c.) Our only method of treating the port-wine stain is by means of external irritants. When it exists on parts of the body not exposed to view, it is better to leave it alone alto- gether. On the face it is so unsightly that an effort should be made to cure it. Unfortunately it cannot be said that our efforts are very likely to be successful. At one time I was in- clined to give up the attempt, after trying multiple punc- ture, simple and with the cautery. Squire’s multiple knife, and many other things. But as they so rarely disappear of them- selve.s, and as I have latterly with persistence obtained .some- what better results, I believe we ought at least to give treatment a fair trial. It will require much patience, how-