io6 PAIN AS A SYMPTOM OP PUACTUKIi In examples of injury from indirect force, the reliance to be placed on this symptom varies with the part injured. In the neighbourhood of a joint it may mean strain or dislocation, but the more nearly its site approaches to the line of weakness in the shaft of a long bone, the more prob- able is it that pain is produced by fracture. It never, however, becomes pathognomonic. Other symptoms are required for confirmation, are generally more reliable, and sometimes are as easy to ascertain. The pain produced by motion may be of greater use. It is logically evident that if we can impress motion on an injured but healthy bone by means of force applied at a distance from the part hurt, and without in any way disturbing its surroundings, the pain so elicited must mean fracture and nothing else. Practically this is not always possible. Force may be applied to the injured bone either as a cross strain or by pressing the ends towards each other. By the former method tension is also most probably brought to bear on the surrounding soft parts. By the latter the result may be vitiated by the neighbourhood of a joint, and in the shaft of a bone is usually rendered of little value by the fact that other symptoms are more distinct and as easily ascertained. Nevertheless there are circumstances in which the presence of pain on motion becomes important. Let me mention one or two. It is not, perhaps, a matter of much moment whether a blow upon the chest has led to fracture of the ribs or not, and inasmuch as the treatment is similar for severe bruise and for fracture, surgeons are often content to leave the question undecided. An accurate diagnosis, however, maj in medico-legal cases be important, and is always satisfactory both to surgeon and patient, if it can be made without injurj- to the latter. I think it possible to do so by means of the pain elicited by motion, when it would be unjustifiable or difficult to bring out such symptoms as crepitus or in- creased mobility. Having ascertained that the pain on pressure of the injured part is situated over one or more ribs (if it be not so, there can be no fracture), the surgeon