PAIN AS A SYMPTOM OK FKACTUKE io8 the fourth week respectively. The only explanation plainly is, that there was fracture which had yielded to muscular action when softening of the impacted parts had sufficiently advanced. Now, the true way to save the surgeon’s credit is to make a correct diagnosis at the first—not to hedge by stating that there is only a bruise, but that such bruises are prone to produce shortening. This diagnosis may be made in two ways. One method consists in giving chloroform, and so moving the leg as to elicit crepitus, when you will also probably find that you have succeeded in producing shorten- ing and eversion. The other, and, as I think, the better mode is, having weighed well all the circumstances, to confirm the diagnosis by the character of the pain produced by move- ment. I have not yet satisfied my mind by a sufficient number of cases, but I am nearly certain that, if the pain caused by inversion be considerable, a fracture has to be dealt with. Pain on eversion and flexion are also greater with fracture than with bruise, but the distinction does not appear to be so marked. No doubt, in a case of chronic arthritis, a bruise cannot thus always be distinguished, but the history and concomitants must then be called to our aid. Many other fractures have special characteristics in refer- ence to the motions which produce pain. I have not worked out the details, because they do not appear of such practical importance as to require individual mention. As a symptom of fracture, then, pain on motion is gener- ally of value only in so far as it confirms others. Sometimes it rises to a more prominent position. Often its absence gives assurance of the absence of fracture, for if it be possible to im- press motion on a fractured bone it is certain that pain will be produced. Tenderness or pain on pressure over the injured part is invariably present in all cases of fracture. It may be defin- itely affirmed that this tenderness is experienced round the whole circumference of the bone in the line of fracture. The question is. How can this law be practically applied? Its usefulness varies according as the fracture has been produced by direct or indirect violence, and I think it will be found that