33 ANGIOMA or arteries is a reliable operation. I have twice seen it per- formed, and on both occasions without benefit. Still it has, in some instances, brought about a cure, and it is easy to conceive that the tumour may be in such a situation that no other operation can be practised. Excision, if it be possible to perform it in cases which have resisted electrolysis, is of course effective. Although the recurrence of vascular tumours after excision has been noted, it occurs only under two conditions: one, when the tumour has really been a pulsating sarcoma; the other, when a por- tion of the growth has been left behind. One would expect that any portion so left would be obliterated by the inflam- matory action. But I saw on one occasion an erectile tumour of the neck ligatured in such a way that a portion about the size of a hazel-nut was left unstrangulated. Now ligature, even more than the knife, is calculated to occlude, yet recurrence took place in this case, and a second operation was required. It is essential, therefore, to follow John Bell’s advice, and cut wide of the disease, not only to avoid recurrence, but also that the communicating vessels may be divided at a point where they are of normal calibre. It is comparatively easy to do so in the tumours which are distinctly encapsuled. In these the arteries and veins are almost normal immediately outside the capsule. But a certain number of these tumours, not perhaps so large as in the case of nzevus, are not clearly encapsuled, but fade away into the surrounding textures, or are closely adherent to them. Both in reference to these growths and to neevus men have generalised erroneously from the some to the all. When the capsule is not distinct, the opera- tion is certain to be difficult and bloody. I do not think that under any circumstances, or in any form, the cautery is a suitable instrument with which to per- form excision ; but I should try in a suitable case the subcu- taneous application of the galvanic cautery when electrolysis fails. I believe that we shall yet have a considerable exten- sion of the subcutaneous method of applying heat. C