ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM 63 patient again. Two months afterwards the swelling and pulsa- tion had so greatly diminished, that it was evident that further delay was demanded. After six months it had nearly dis- appeared, and I have not seen her again. Since that time I have seen two other cases of undoubted dilatation of the carotid. Like the first, they occurred in middle-aged neurotic women. One was specially interesting to me, because I witnessed in the space of about a year the enlargement of the upper part of the left carotid to more than twice its normal size, its gradual subsidence, and the subsequent development of a smaller enlargement, but with distinct tortuosity, on the right side, which also slowly went away. In carotid aneurism the effects of embolism would, of course, be more serious than on a limb, but the probability of its occurrence is so small that no apprehension of that sort need deter from introducing needles. On the whole, I should prefer ligature if the aneurism were sufificiently high. Traumatic Aneurism requires perhaps a word. There can be little doubt that in the great majority of cases the treat- ment should be by opening the sac. But it is easy to understand that there might be circumstances in which the risks of such a method might lead to the adoption of the needles. In one variety, electrolysis seems to me to be undoubtedly better in most situations than either the simple needles or any cutting operation—I mean the arterio-venous. On the smaller arteries I have met with invariable success. In the two cases of aneurismal varix of traumatic origin in the orbit, which were put under my care by Dr Argyll Robertson, we had a perfect success, which could scarcely have been attained by any other means. Certainly no other method is at once so safe and so effective. In operating in these cases the important point is to ascertain the wounded spot. This can often be done by lateral pressure with the puncturing needle. When it is found that by such lateral pressure the circulation can be arrested or greatly modified, there and thereabouts the needle is maintained and the current made to pass. I cannot speak from experience with relation to large vessels, but I am quite sure that I should try it there also in preference to any of the operations, including even