126 LAPAROTOMY IN TUBERCULOUS I'ERITONITLS cured, not only of the obstruction, but also of the peritonitis. Even now the operation is so entirely empirical, that we are unable to explain the how and why of its success. Xo doubt it has analogies, but none of them are so complete as mani- festly to supply the explanation. The melon-seed teno-synovitis of the wrist may be hope- fully treated by incision and evacuation. But thorough evacuation, and as much rest as may be consistent with the preservation of mobility in the tendons, are essential condi- tions which cannot apply in tuberculous peritonitis. Simple arthrotomy for gelatinous degeneration of the synovial membrane is in a certain small class of cases followed by cure. But here, again, success is conditioned by that enforcement of rest which of itself, in the early, if not in every stage of tuberculous arthritis, is so beneficial, that one is justified in looking upon operative interference as an adjuvant or a resource after failure. In some operations for tuberculosis, the object is to diminish or exterminate the invading battalions of bacilli which are proving too strong for the textures, and very often it is directed to counteracting what may be called the accidents of the position, to relieving tension, to exterminat- ing sepsis, to hastening anchylosis. But it would be difficult to regard any of these as adequate to explaining the effect of incision in many cases of tuberculous peritonitis. Other suggestions have accordingly been brought forward. It may be said that the benefit must be derived either from something put into the abdomen or from taking something out. Now, the things you put in are light, air, and your finger. It is difficult to see how the short-lived admission of light can have any effect whatever. It is conceivable that perhaps the breaking down of adhesion or the stimulus of handling may prove useful. But if the introduction of any- thing into the abdomen is effective, it is probably the air. It is at least suggested by the division of organisms into the aerobic and the anaerobic, and is supported by a few observa- tions on the injection of warm air into the abdomen in the lower animals. It is difficult, however, to get over the obvious objections that practically in other parts air has no