79 TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE KNEE at the same time enable them to destroy the vitality of the intruders. It may be that in the effete products of work microbes find a suitable soil. Suffice it, however, that rest is effective, and that, if made absolute, or, as it is called, physiological, it rarely tails to cure. But, while this is so, the difficulty of applying it in any adequate way is sometimes very great. In certain parts of the body it is impossible, although I venture to maintain that often, as, for example, in tuberculous glands, the possi- bilities are not sufficiently utilised by the surgeon. In the poor, again, as compared with the rich, the necessary time is not at our disposal. Among the upper classes the rarity of operation for tuberculous disease is largely due to the fact that immobilisation can be maintained over a sufficiently prolonged period of time. It is a common history among our hospital patients, that steady improvement continues so long as they are kept in the Infirmary, and that relapse occurs on their resumption of the work that they must perform in order that they may live. After, it may be, frequent repetition of this alterna- tion, an abscess forms and opens. The too common sequel is that, having opened, it becomes septic ; having become septic, the disease makes more rapid progress than before. There can be no doubt that the influence of the different forms of microbes upon each other is very various. Some are antagonistic. There is an antagonism between the microbe of erysipelas and that of tubercle. Fehleisen has shown it in lupus. I have observed it in tuberculous arthritis. I have before me the case of a boy in whom I excised the elbow. Septic at first, it remained so after operation, and, notwithstanding scraping out of the sinuses on more than one occasion, they would not heal, and persistently exhibited characteristic tuberculous granulations. One day he came to the Infirmary, and was sent to the Contagious Hospital on account of erysipelas. With the subsidence of the erysipelas the sinuses quickly healed. The case is not isolated in my experience, and I have myself no doubt of the antagonism. On the other hand, ordinary pyogenic microbes and tubercle are adjuvant to each other. If a