135 TREATMENT OF FRESH WOUNDS unites them is sufficiently strong in three or four days to resist the normal elasticity of the cutaneous envelope. In such cases a fine catgut would last for the necessary time. But inasmuch as, from exudations of blood or serum, or from other circumstances, either the union may be somewhat de- layed or the tension somewhat greater, it is well that the catgut be of such a quality and thickness as to secure it from absorption for seven or eight days. More than that is un- necessary. It is a mistake to suppose that the use of a per- manent material, as wire, silk, or horse-hair, enables you to resist tension. The fact is that if a wound be perfectly lax, sutures are of use only in maintaining steadiness; while, on the other hand, if the tension is such that the wound requires support against it after the first week, any ordinary suture which may have been left in will have cut its way through the skin, and, so far from doing good, will add to what in- flammatory action may be present. There are cases in which, from deficiency of skin or from other causes, we must be prepared to encounter much tension, and I believe that under healthy and aseptic conditions we may attain union of any surface which we can bring into ap- position by manual pressure, and which can be so maintained without cutting off its blood-supply. But in such circum- stances we must distribute the pressure and take it off the margin of the wound by buttons or quills, being careful so to apply them as to get the maximum of relaxation at the edge with the minimum of pressure on any one point. It is not in virtue of the permanent nature of the material, but because of the distribution of pressure, that we meet with our success. Even thus tension is not entirely evaded. These sutures are not without their disadvantages. The material which unites the buttons tends, of course, to pass from one to the other by the shortest route, and in doing so produces ulceration, which is none the less real because it is not always visible on the surface. In septic wounds it is frequent, and in aseptic it occurs that suppuration forms in the track of such sutures, and, if it do so, is apt to be dammed back by the button. They ought, therefore, to be taken out as soon as possible. Of them, also, it may be said that in most cases they have