LAPAROTOMY IN TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS I is more difficult in the surgical treatment of tubercle than to assess the value of concomitant lesions. Practically I have thought myself bound in such cases by much the same considerations as would influence me in operating, say, for tuberculous fistula in ano. What is the lesion which is pro- ducing most damage to the patient? Are the concomitants of such a kind that no hope of prolonged life or increased comfort can be entertained as a consequence of operating on the abdomen ? These and suchlike questions by their answers determine action. I am not, of course, concerned with the medical treatment of the disease, further than to suggest that it is not without hope, and that the surgical experience of the advantages of immobilisation is worthy of consideration. But, after the failure of medical remedies, there is no doubt in my mind that the operation of laparotomy is one to which resort should be had in a large proportion of cases. Practically there is no immediate risk. We had not a single case which caused the least anxiety. There is, however, some risk of the formation of fistula. Fresh granulation tissue is a soil in which tubercle revels. I think we have more cogent proof of this in these antiseptic days than was formerly the case. For example, in excisions of joints for tuberculous disease, if performed when the skin is unbroken, one can rely with great certainty on healing by the first intention. But every now and again, after three, four, or five weeks, the scar begins to broaden, and get a little oedematous. Presently, at one or more points, it yellows and then ulcerates, and you may as well use the sharp spoon freely and at once, because tubercle has attacked the scar tissue. It is plain that this may occur after lapar- otomy. I am astonished that it does not do so oftener, because in tuberculous peritonitis no attempt is made to take away the tubercle, whereas in excisions every care is used to remove all palpable disease. Still, it does occur. I have already referred to the two cases in which it has occurred after my own operations. In both cases the history was very similar. Both had left the Infirmary apparently quite well. In both, some eight weeks after the operation.