3 ANGIOMA entirely closing the eye. With surgical assistance, a process of involution was set up, and in two years not a trace remained in swelling, colour, or to touch, except a convergent strabismus from prolonged disuse of the eye. It is, of course, absolutely impossible that such a growth can have progressed otherwise than by increase or enlargement of the pre-existent capillaries of each part as it was successively attacked. I do not think that one is in a position to formulate any theory as to the mean- ing of this spread by the margins, which is singular among innocent tumours. Usually a portion of tissue, taking on an abnormal development, simply grows. It does not induce its neighbour to grow likewise. It may even by pressure induce atrophy. But there are exceptions. There is the continuous fatty tumour which is most common on the back of the neck, and there is this telangiectasis. It is difficult to understand the nature of the influence exerted. In this mode of growth the formation of a capsule cannot take place. The tumour simply melts more or less abruptly into its surroundings. Nor is this by any means the least common mode of extension. Again, the purely subcutaneous nrevus is comparatively rare. The large majority of subcutaneous nsevi involve the skin to a greater or less extent. Now, so far as the skin is concerned, capsulation is of course impossible. In the purely cuffineous there is no capsule whatever, and in the mixed the skin is perfectly continuous with the tumour. But in many cases undoubtedly a capsule does exist, and there are plainly certain conditions which conduce to it. There is first the fact that sometimes the internal growth may be too rapid for the external invasion. We have in this respect an analogy with the progress of some malignant tumours, which, like nsvus, invade their neighbours In the subcutaneous sarcomata, for example, there is often a wonder- fully perfect encapsulation from this cause. So the navi push aside so fa.st that they have not time to invade, or are so slow m invading that they cannot help pushing aside and condens- ing. Next we have a tendency to encapsulation from the natural anatomical relationships of parts. Here, again we have an analogy in the behaviour of malignant tumours.