168 WOUND TREATMENT WITHOUT THE SPRAY operation be rendered bloodless, the cavity of the wound may be sometimes filled with glycerine, and the operation be yet carried on with perfect ease under the translucent fluid. With all antiseptics it is essential that they be not introduced under pressure, especially if the tissues be already bruised. I shall presently show that even with glycerine this may prove injurious. If the case remain aseptic it causes a painful cellulitis; if it become septic it inevitably leads to sloughing. It is less injurious, however, than either chloride of zinc or the watery solution of carbolic acid under similar circumstances. Let me enumerate then, shortly, the modifications of the Listerian precautions which I am in the habit of using. Those which I do not mention I adopt as they are usually carried out. It is well to wash the hands and the skin of the part to be operated on with a solution of carbonate of soda, and then smear thoroughly with the glycerine solution. After the operation, and during it if it be prolonged or complicated, the wound is also covered with the glycerine. Oiled silk, simple or dextrinised (it matters little which), is soaked in carbolic glycerine, and laid on the closed wound. The object of this is chiefly to prevent adhesion of the outer dressings. The whole is then covered with a large quantity of salicylic wool, a freshly torn surface being placed next the skin. If on account of oozing the dressing requires renewal next day, the drainage-tube is then removed ; if not, its removal may be delayed for ten days or a fortnight. I have now pursued this method for nearly a year. It has been modified at different times by using other anti- septics, as bichloride of mercury, thymol, eucalyptol, and others, but I have not been able to assure myself that any one is less irritating or more efficacious as a germi- cide. Statistics have, no doubt, a certain value in determining the usefulness of different methods of dressing. But the conditions are so complicated that the record of individual cases is undoubtedly of greater importance. In the first place, then, I propose placing before you evidence that the method is effective in the various classes of