ANGIOMA 32 ated fibrin to form. In aneurism by anastomosis especially this must be the case. Probably also naevous blood may not lend itself so readily to the formation of fibrin. It is evident, then, that the conditions which favour the application of electrolysis are smallness of lumen in the blood spaces, a moderate blood current, a size of tumour .such that we can destroy a large portion of it quickly without throwing too great a strain on the absorbents. But it is equally evident that it is impossible to determine beforehand the existence or non-existence of some of these conditions. I have, therefore, gradually arrived at the opinion, that considering the absolute safety of the operation, we ought in doubtful cases to give electrolysis a fair trial before proceeding to other and more severe remedies. In operating upon these cases we may regard it as certain that the mass of the tumour must piecemeal be destroyed. Nevertheless, I do not doubt from what I have seen that the operation should be directed, in the first place, to the obliteration of the affluents and the points of closest communication between arteries and veins. If obliteration of these points cannot be attained the treatment may probably be abandoned. _ Should electrolysis fail, the point to be next decided is whether further measures should be undertaken. For a large number I should answer in the negative. I have already Siven many examples of the innocuous character of these growths, and no one who has read accounts of the operations that have been performed for their removal can fail to recognise the danger of such proceedings Still, every case must be decided on its own merits, by balancing the risk o the proposed operation against the risk incurred from le tumour through haemorrhage or pressure on vital organs, an the suffering it causes from its bulk, its situation, or 1 s ^"""int be determined to interfere, ligature of the affluents and excision are the only methods worthy of ^°‘^^'derat.on. When it is feasible and safe to inject coagulants or to hga- ture the tumour, electrolysis presents a safer and equa ) certain alternative. It cannot be said that the ligature of the affeient arterj