ANGIOMA 2-8 which presents several other points of distinction. Two examples of this pulsatile angioma may be given; The first was. a young man of 19, who presented himself at the Infirmary with the following history;—From his birth there had existed on his left cheek a small nievus, partly cutaneous, but chiefly subcutaneous, about the size of a walnut. Six months before his admission, as he thought because of a blow, it began for the first time to pulsate. Rapid enlargement followed, and at the period of admission a tumour, strongly pulsating, and three inches in diameter, occupied the site of the nsevus. Its innocent character was sufficiently proved by the fact that three sittings sufficed to cure it by the applica- tion of electrolysis. The second case was one which, although less clear, I am also inclined to regard as of this nature It was that of a gentleman, set. 47, whom I saw in consultation with several of my colleagues, and who had been examined by surgeons of eminence in other places, with somewhat uncertain diag- nostic results. A pulsating tumour of large size, with distinct bruit, occupied the upper and posterior portion of the thigh. It reached as high as the ischial tuberosity, was deeply seated, and moderately well defined. From early life, but not from childhood, a tumour had existed, distinctly non-pulsatile, and of very slow growth, if, indeed, there had been any since it was first noticed. Since pulsation began about T\o years before we saw it, the increase had been decidedly more rapid. The point in doubt was hardly so much whether or not this was originally a cavernous n$vus, as whether or not it con- tinued innocent. Its long continuance, its similarity to the case I have already given, and to some others which have come under my notice, inclined me to class it as a pulsatile cavernous tumour, and to advise electrolysis. The patient, however, did not consent, and a year or two afterwards I heard that it remained much in the same state as when we saw it. In these cases there is a rounded and fairly defined tumour with a systolic, not a to-and-fro, bruit. It is more frequently seated on the extremities than the other varieties of angioma. In other respects its clinical history does not greatly differ from them. If it originate in a na;vus, however.