ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM 6o tact with the wall, no result will ensue, or only that which may be brought about at the point of entry of the needle. That both are capable of producing the inflammation which leads to cure is proved by results. We have no data which would justify the ascription of greater certainty to one or other. Both are obnoxious to the charge in that they may produce an excessive and dangerous inflammation, as the.se cases show, and there is no reason to believe that one would be more apt to do so than the other. It is evident that there are individual idiosyncrasies, and that it would be well in every case to make the first operation a mild one. For example, with electrolysis I should be content at first with 5 or 6 milliamperes, and contact of 8 or lo seconds at each spot. In these essential points there seems little to choose. In the matter of simplicity the needling has no doubt the advan- tage, but the use of electricity is so greatly extending that that probably is not of importance comparatively. The pain experienced is considerable with anything over 15 milliam- peres, but a much milder current is capable of effecting our purpose, and can easily be borne. With needling, the pain is not great. With electrolysis, the operation is over in a few minutes ; with needling, its duration is very irksome. I confess, therefore, after as impartial a consideration as I can give to the two methods, that I do not know w hich in its essential character is to be preferred. Possibly \\ e may find that after comparing them with other modes of treat- ment, we may be able to assign them special rdles in special cases. Aneurisms may be divided, so far as treatment is con- cerned, into those which are situated on the main artery of a limb and those which are not, and the former may again be subdivided into those in which the circulation can be com- manded on the proximal side and those in which it cannot. The most typical examples of aneurism not on the mam artery, are the gluteal and sciatic. In these, the only cutting operations are, the laying open of the aneurism, and the ligature of the internal iliac artery, which must necessarily be attended by very considerable risk. On the other hand.