ANGIOMA 2 Stmciure.— If after excision a purely subcutaneous na;vus be examined with the naked eye, on section it will be seen to resemble very closely a finely reticulated sponge. The re- ticulation is very even, the blood spaces are much of one size, the average being about as large as the head of a small pin. Individual examples vary somewhat in this respect, .some having a wider, some a more irregular reticulation than others. It will be found impossible with the utmost care to dissect out any distinct blood tube, on account of the constant intercom- munication of one with the other. So perfect, in fact, is the reticulation that in whatever direction the section be made the lumina appear always to be cut transversely. There is no sign of a vessel running parallel to the section or cut obliquely. The laminae between the blood spaces are thin but tough, and smooth and shining on their surface. Here and there through the section denser white lines may be seen imper- fectly dividing the tumour into lobes. It is not possible to separate between these lobules, and, indeed, they are often entirely absent. On microscopic examination, the laminae are found to be fibrous in structure, lined by an endothelium, which is continuous with that of the blood-vessels. By some recent authors these tumours are described as invariably surrounded by a distinct capsule, and on this point it is necessary to be perfectly clear, because on it has been founded a definite practice. There are two modes by which a n$vus may increase in bulk—the intrinsic and the extrinsic. It may grow by the invasion of surrounding parts, or by pushing them aside through addition to its own internal bulk. I have seen many a nsevus run a course which entirely precluded the idea of its increase being otherwise than by involving the surrounding textures in its own mode of growth. Take one example: A child, a patient of Dr Graham Weir, was born with a small mark on the temple exactly like a bruise, and which, indeed, was supposed to have been produced by the forceps used in delivery. But its true character was soon evident, for it grew with such rapidity that in a few weeks it covered one-half the face and palate, occupying the whole thickness of the cheek, greatly distorting the ear, and by enlargement of the ej-elids