TREATMENT OF FRESH WOUNDS 139 attained are admirable. But the second is scarcely less important. It is less important because, if the entrance of noxious influences be prevented, it would matter little what the nature of the soil might be. But undoubtedly germs creep in notwithstanding all precautions, and it is of great moment that they should find conditions unsuitable for their multiplication. I suppose, for example, that the chances of a wound becoming septic are much greater in a diseased than in a healthy man, that the germicide properties of healthy tissues are much stronger than those of diseased textures; and it is certain that the results of septicity are much worse in the weakly than in the strong. This object, of course, involves the care of the patient’s general condition. But the soil may also be rendered unsuitable for germination by means applied locally. I have sometimes thought that perhaps we are too timid in our application of antiseptics to wounds. I have had ex- ceedingly good results from carbolic irrigation. I excised the os calcis in a patient of Dr Sidey’s whose wound, septic before, remained so after operation. The temperature rose alarmingly, and we thought the patient would die of septicjemia. Irrigation was established by three worsted threads, which led into the cavity continuously for a fortnight a stream of i to 40 carbolic lotion. Yet the patient suffered in no way from carbolic poisoning, while the symptoms of septicaemia disappeared, and healing went on steadily, though slowly. But whether or no highly septic discharges should in some instances thus be charged with an antiseptic, we have other methods of rendering a fresh wound unfavourable to the propagation of germs, Two of these seem to me specially important. Dryness is highly conducive to safe and rapid healing. Moist warmth favours all forms of decomposition, and promotes exudation. Careful arrest of hmmorrhage, and a covering at once dry and permeable, are therefore strongly indicated. Again, accurately applied compression is an aid to quick union, because it brings together and keeps in immediate contact parts which may at once adhere, and which thus also come, as it were, within striking distance, and so exercise