PAIN AS A SYMPTOM OF FRACTURE IO5 that for this, as for all the signs, the value should be carefully determined. We shall find that pain may be useful to us in two ways. It may clear up cases that otherwise would be exceedingly difficult, and in easy cases may save the patient farther suffering in the process of investigation. Pain may present itself in connection with fracture under three varieties: i, as such, pure and simple; 2, as pain on motion ; 3, as pain on pressure, or tenderness. These three varieties are usually concomitant at the site of fracture. But they are so also in many other injuries, and as positive evidence this concomitance is not of much significance. It may happen, however, that its absence is worthy of note. Thus, there can be no fracture if pain be not felt on moving the part, even though the other forms of suffering be very prominent after an injury. Or again, with some fractures, although it is more common with dis- location, pain is referred entirely to a distant part of the limb. In these the absence of pain on pressure and motion proves that the injury, whatever it may be, does not lie at the spot to which sensation is referred. It is not unfrequent to have a dislocation of the humerus supposed to be a sprain of the wrist, and I have seen a fracture of the neck of the humerus missed from the same cause. This error could not have arisen if the point I have referred to had received due attention. But according to the circumstances under which it occurs, its position, severity, and combinations, each variety of pain is capable of affording valuable information. Let us take them in their order. Pain alone, and simply as such, is certainly not often of much significance, even though we leave out of account the possible difficulties arising from referred sensation. In the ca.se of direct violence, pain at the injured spot indicates merely the locality of the injury, and the same may usually be affirmed of injuries produced by muscular action. In the one, bruising of the soft parts; in the other, rupture of mu.scular or fibrous textures, is not thus to be distinguished from fracture.