120 ON LINEAR INCISION AND EVERTING SUTURES an Infirmary patient who had a fistula half-an-inch long, just behind the glans penis, on the under surface. It had been produced by phagedenic chancre. I operated in the way I have described. Next day the patient had a rigor, and on the fifth day he died of acute septicaemia. From so small a wound I have never had so terrible a result. The evil lay, not in the nature of the operation, but in my then imperfect appreciation of aseptic surgery. I am indebted to Mr Chiene for a suggestion which I believe he carried out on these lines in a case of recto-urethral fistula, although I do not know with what success. I after- wards followed his suggestion in a patient in whom a fistula between the rectum and urethra had been produced by abscess. He was 40 years of age when, two years before admission, the abscess had opened first into the urethra and subsequently into the rectum. It was difficult to determine the etiology of the absce.ss, but I suspect it to have been gonorrhoeal. The opening lay at the apex of the prostate, and there was no trace of stricture. I split up the tissues between the rectum and urethra, everted the mucous membranes towards these canals, and sewed them up. I found the suture of the urethra difficult, and not being satisfied of its perfection, I left the outer wound open, with a small drainage-tube in it. The rectum healed perfectly, but, as I had feared, the urethral wound leaked, and a perinaeal fistula remained. It was, of course, much less uncomfortable than his previous condition, and he refused further interference. The third case was one of a little boy, aet. 4, who was brought to the Infirmary with a urinary fistula just in front of the scrotum. On exploration a calculus was found lying in a cavity between the skin and urethra, and was removed. As the fistula remained, it was subsequently operated upon, and healed at once. I have successfully tried this method also in vesico-vaginal fistula, but have found it difficult of application. It is not easy, after splitting, so to manipulate the mucous membrane of the bladder as thoroughly to evert it towards the viscus, but once it is accomplished, the depth of the wound is very satisfactory, and the results are good.