31 ANGIOMA country, she came to town. I had great hope that the tumour might thus be cured, but the abscess opened and healed, and the pulsation remained as vigorous as before. Influenced by these cases, I somewhat hastily came to the conclusion that in these varieties of cavernous tumour elec- trolysis was of little use, and for a time I discouraged patients from undergoing the operation. A longer experience, how- ever, has taught me that this idea also was erroneous, although it is still difficult to define exactly in what forms of the disease electricity ought to be employed. Empirically, I think I may safely say that electrolysis will succeed in tumours of small size—that is, in those which can be overtaken in one or two sittings, whatever be the precise variety. I have, moreover, succeeded in several examples of pulsatile tumours which have been developed in adult life out of pre-existent congenital ncEvus, and the complete success of electrolysis in the treatment of naevus makes it likely that this is not a mere coincidence. A priori, if we look to the nature of the electric action, and to the structure of these tumours, we may, I think, with reasonable probability, at once explain the failures, and find indications of the class which is likely to be benefited. Elec- trolysis is simply a process of cauterisation, of destruction of texture so much tissue is thereby subcutaneously destroyed. But if we wish to avoid the evils of inflammation, abscess sloughing, and hemorrhage, the amount destroyed must not be greater than the absorbents can deal with, and time must be given for their action. There is therefore a limit to the size of the part destroyed, and to the shortness of the interval between the operations. Now, if we consider the structure of erechle tumours, we see at once that absorption of destroyed portions may be accompanied not necessarily by diminution of bulk in the tumour as a whole, but possibly by enlarge- rnent of the blood spaces which remain. The large size of the lacunae also renders it not unlikely that they often succeed in re-estabhshing their lumina, when the blood and tissues have been only partially affected by the operation. Again the great whir and turmoil of the blood in some tumours must make it difficult for the secondary deposition of lamim