ANGIOMA 19 without which it is unpleasant to work in children on account of the pain. Even in adults I find it necessary to use an anaesthetic. They describe the sensation as that of a severe burn, and have always demanded it at the second sitting if I have persuaded them to do without it at the first. The final result has not been definitely ascertained in about 10 per cent, of the cases. These, chiefly Infirmary cases, have not finally reported themselves. I am not aware of any in which there has been failure to cure, and all were improving when last heard of. In six operations I carried the action too far in my endeavour to get as near to the naevoid skin as I could, and so produced a cutaneous slough. In two of these I then resorted to other measures. Four were cured with more or less marking by cicatrix. I may instance the case of a medical student at twenty, who had a nsevus of the left auricle. It had begun to grow rapidly and become pulsatile during the past year or two. When I saw it first, the whole auricle was an egg-shaped pulsating blue mass. One opera- tion absolutely arrested the pulsation, and reduced the auricle to its natural shape and size, with the exception of two or three nodules at the margin. In endeavouring to destroy these, I was unfortunate in producing two unsightly crescentic sloughs The auricle was so thin that I did not succeed in my effort to destroy the vessels without interfering with the nutrition of the part. In nine operations, which include four of these six, some suppuration occurred. All of these naevi did ultimately perfectly well, but in all I blame myself for not attending sufficiently to the aseptic condition of the patient’s skin or my needles and fingers, or for carrying the action too far. Some were in pre-antiseptic days. In five cases some trace of the former disease remains. This comes from the fact that sometimes after the tumour is cured the na;void condition of skin remains to a greater or less extent. Experience of examples in which the colour has long continued, leads me to believe that this will probably disappear with the lapse of time. In some, a certain white- ness or scar-like appearance of the skin which had been