1 ^2 GERMS AND THE SPRAY temperature never rose above 99“ In the scanty watery dis- charge abundant rod-like bacteria were invariably found, although absolutely in every other respect it followed an “ aseptic course.” And what adds to the striking character of the case is, that when, six weeks afterwards, in the same patient, for the same cause, I excised the other knee, the result was the same. That is merely one example out of many, and I have no hesitation in believing that had I allowed these wounds, while exuding fluid, to become contami- nated from without, the result would have been modified to a greater or less extent. Is, then, the difference between a compound and a simple fracture, an open and a closed bruise, to be accounted for solely by the presence of bacteria in the one and not in the other.? A patient was admitted to the Infirmary who had ruptured, by sudden strain, some of the adductor fibres in his thigh. In the extravasated blood suppuration occurred, and when I opened the abscess I found many micrococci. Why does this suppuration not more often occur? The sugges- tions given above may partly explain ; and it may be that although micrococci come to many, they find blood-clot pure and simple an unfavourable soil. Much has been said of the evils of tension such as exi.sted in the case referred to. Tension does harm, undoubtedly, but not so much alone and in itself as by the nature of the exudation which causes it or to which it may give rise. The invariable tension of a bruise by blood-clot causes little harm. Tension by bloody serum, in developing bacteria from within or from without, may result in suppuration and septicaemia. But it would be impossible within reasonable limits to pursue these thoughts. They are sufficient to enforce the practical importance of the general condition of your patient prior to an operation, and the necessity for precautions against the development of germs coming from within. But it must be admitted that contamination comes also from without, and to determine the question to what extent the organisms we find in wounds are due to one or other cause, the efficacy of external preventive measures must be ascertained. Can we—independently, I mean, of the neces.sar\