ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM 62 the proximal side, or endeavour to excite internal inflamma- B tion. I do not think that Mr Syme’s endeavour to revive the ■ old operation in such cases was altogether successful. He B was quite accurate in saying that in a certain proportion the B orifice in the artery is small, and I think it probable that, if B this be ascertained in any particular case, the most effective B plan, as being absolutely certain and not much more risky fl than ligature, is to open the sac. As between these operations, B then, each case must be judged on its own merits. With a B history of sudden pain in the part and formation of a swelling B thereafter, one might fairly predicate a small orifice. On the fl other hand, I assisted at an operation of Mr Syme’s on an H iliac aneurism, which turned out to be fusiform and required B ligature—above, near the iliac bifurcation ; and below, of fl the superficial and deep femorals. In that patient, if any of fl us who carefully studied the tumour had reasoned rightly, fl we should have known that it was fusiform, because it fl extended for many inches, both above and below Poupart’s fl ligament. fl But putting aside this question of the domain to be I assigned to one or other of these operations, it appears to me fl that both should be postponed to acupuncture or electrolysis. fl Although less certain, these undoubtedly are very greatly « safer. | As the situation of the aneurism gets nearer to the heart, | the condition approaches more and more nearly to that of | aortic aneurism. The possibilities of surgical interference | become more and more limited, and we are restricted more and more completely to the introduction of needles as generally the V best, and often the only method of local treatment. | The aneurism of the carotid presents so great a similarity to that on the main artery of a limb, that it scarcely requires . j separate consideration. One word of caution I should like to ' \ give. I on one occasion saw a patient with a strongly pulsating swelling high on the common carotid. It had been proposed to ligature the artery, and I was inclined to agree with the diagnosis and proposed treatment. As, however, the patient desired to go elsewhere for a time, and as there were no pressure or other urgent symptoms, I asked to see the