TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE KNEE 85 that it be absolutely and entirely removable, because, undoubtedly, the removal of the major part of the disease, the relief of tension, and the completeness of immobilisation in many cases will allow the vitality of the texture to reassert itself, and overcome the small portions of disease that remain. But I regard total removal as an important object for several reasons. These are, first, that a remanent focus of tubercular disease implies a long-continued threat of recurrence ; second, that osseous ankylosis is more difficult to obtain when tuber- cular foci are present; and third, that dissemination of tubercle through the system is a result which does arise more frequently than is generally acknowledged when a large, raw surface, especially of bone, is exposed to tubercular infection. There can be no doubt that tubercular disea.se may be produced by inoculation. The conditions of such inoculation seldom, of course, arise, but the following case is one of considerable interest in this connection. A woman, aet. 36 years, was admitted to the Royal Infirmary in November 1887, suffering from three nodules on the hand, each about the size of a walnut. Two were close together on the back of the hand over the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, one about an inch away over the lateral aspect of the wrist. The lowest had already opened, and all presented the clinical aspect of tubercular abscess. The history was that, in washing some handkerchiefs impregnated with sputum from a sister who was dying of phthisis, she deeply pricked her hand with a safety-pin attaching them together. The little wound inflamed slightly, and a few drops of pus came out, but it healed again in a week or ten days. Seven or eight weeks subse- quently, a nodule began slowly to form at the spot; a week or two later, a second, higher up ; and the third on the side of the wrist, considerably later still. I scraped them out and passed drainage tubes from one to the other, finding them connected by diseased texture, and after a second .scraping, six weeks afterward, they healed soundly. The tubercle bacillus was found in the scraped-out material. It is easy to understand, and it is consistent with ex- perience in operations for tuberculous disease, that the raw