PAIN AS A SYMPTOM OF FKACTUKE I [O usual line of fracture, and if the cause of the injury be undoubtedly indirect. Take a common example of fracture from indirect violence, Pott’s fracture of the fibula. Even though there be no displacement, the diagnosis of fracture may be made with certainty, if there be pain on pressure above the external malleolus, and especially if this be accompanied by tenderness over the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. It is only, therefore, when the bone is altogether so situated that the pressure applied loses in precision, that this circumstance interferes with the useful- ness of the symptom. The other impediment—that, namely, of injury to the soft parts from indirect violence—is not, in most cases, one of much moment. In the neighbourhood of joints it must be borne in mind. In the shoulder-joint there are fibrous expansions of the tendons, extensions of the joints, capsule, and bursae, over the bone, which are prone to be injured and become sore to the touch. There is also naturally a tender spot over the anterior tuberosity, which becomes much more painful in disease or after injury. In this region, therefore, no reliance, or very little, can be placed upon this sign. In the knee, also, the curiously tender spot over the lower part of the inner condyle should not be allowed to lead to confusion. But with a few well-defined and easily-ascertained excep- tions of this sort, the proposition may be maintained, that if the violence be indirect, pain on pressure over a bone indicates fracture, its absence negatives the possibility of the bone being broken. That does not mean, of course, that this sign is always to be placed in the front rank. \\ hat I have called the perspective of symptoms must be maintained, and it varies for each case. Sometimes, as in fractures of the shaft of the humerus or femur, mobility stands first, crepitus second, and tenderness only third. In other cases deformity is of greater importance. But not rarely pain may be really the leading and even a pathognomonic .symptom. . r . Let us consider for a moment the diagnosis of the two most common fractures of the body, that of the lower end