ANGIOMA 27 one of those continuous fatty tumours sometimes found on the nape of the neck. Its centre was crossed by a scar, to which it was adherent. He had seen many surgeons, and one of them had attempted its removal, but had been deterred from completing the operation by hjemorrhage and the absence of any definite capsule. He had then sewn it closely up, and union took place by first intention. 2. The next variety of cavernous tumour to which I would refer is one which may well be called the venous. In it, while undoubtedly telangiectasis or capillary metamorphosis exists, the chief feature of the disease is phlebectasis or dilatation of the veins. In its natural history it resembles the varieties I have already described, but with that greater tendency to in- flammatory reaction, to ulceration, and to possible hemor- rhage which might be expected from its similarity to varix. It is subcutaneous, and the huge and tortuous veins, in which often phleboliths may be felt, give the leading feature to the disease. Pressure empties them at least partially, and, un- like the other forms of cavernous tumour which are but slightly reducible, it may thus be very largely diminished in bulk. In any form this variety is rare. 3. Another variety of cavernous tissue tumour is that in which the cavernous metamorphosis of the capillaries is associated with ectasy of the arteries and arterioles which supply it, but in which the veins are not notably involved. This growth begins in the young adult like the others, before middle life, but a form not distinguishable from it may owe its origin to a late and retrograde development of congenital naevus. That rare affection, which has been called osteo- aneurism, belongs to this variety. Although it is certain that what has been called osteo-aneurism is in most cases a sar- coma, in which enlarged and multiplied vessels form the meshwork for the cells, there can yet be no doubt that innocent pulsatile tumours of bone do exist. As a rule, the arterio-capillary cavernous tumour occupies the soft parts. I have said that it sometimes originates in congenital nsvus. We have seen that certain naevi pulsate from the beginning, but the tumour to which I refer now is one in which the active and pulsatile character is assumed later, and