154 GERMS AND THE SPRAY with proper care, as in themselves a protection from sepsis ; and that the macintosh or gutta-percha tissue are sufficiently safe as the outer layer of a dressing. It is evident, then, that with any of the ordinary forms of antiseptic dressing the only fear of contamination arises from the discharge or other putrescible fluid communicating with the outer world at the margin for too long a period. That this is an occa- sional source of sepsis, especially when dressings remain long unchanged, is certain, and generally recognised. Mr Watson Cheyne’s observations indicate, in his opinion, that this is apt to happen with micrococci when an ordinary gauze dressing has been kept on a very few days. And it must be remembered that the ordinary secretions of the skin, confined by impermeable material, may form the necessary channel as well as pus, a strong argument in favour of dry and absorbent dressings. These observations of Mr Watson Cheyne’s, which may be suggestively compared with Dr Ogston’s on micrococci in abscess, receive also an explanation in a little experiment which 1 made with carbolised gauze. I covered the floor of the incubator with sixteen layers of antiseptic gauze, and exposed it for an hour to a temperature of 98°. I introduced a beaker of aseptic fluid, and left it exposed for twelve hours. It was then covered with macintosh, and remained clear till the fourth day, when it was again uncovered for twelve hours. It now became putrid, as did also beakers introduced on the fifth and sixth days. It is clear, therefore, that at least from the fourth day onwards the ordinary carbolised gauze maintains a wound aseptic, not because it contains an antiseptic, but because of the filtering material of which it is composed, and in which respect it is much excelled by dry cotton-wool and other dressings. It is probable, then, that a certain proportion of the cases in which we found microbia may be accounted for by delays in dressing and by the nature of the material employ'ed. There is here a tendency to failure, but one which can be guarded against by proper precautions. Any' antiseptic dressing in common use may' be rendered safe and effecti\ e. But, secondly', are the precautions which we take when