55 ELECTROLYSIS IN ANEURISM mediate reduction of the violence of the pulsation to a very great extent. After a few days, however, a slow but steady increase of pulsatile force was observed, so that in the course of three or four weeks the condition was much as it had been before the operation. I then determined to put in practice the ideas to which I have above referred. The ordinary needles coated with vulcanite were used, but a fluid rheostat and a Gaiffe’s galvanometer were interposed in the circuit. In our everyday operations upon nsevi these are unnecessary, because the effect produced is determined by sight and touch ; while in former aneurismal operations they were unnecessary, because electrolysis of the blood is of course not painful, and the duration of the operation is determined by the pulsation. Chloroform was not given, because, although considerable pain was anticipated and actually caused, the patient had much endurance, and it was thought that the pain might aid us in determining the extent to which electrolysis should be pushed. By means of the rheostat the current was gradually increased to 20 milliamperes, as represented on the galvano- meter. Unaided by sight or touch we have to determine the amount of cauterisation by the strength of the current. The exposed points of the needles were brought into contact with many portions of the wall. They were not allowed to remain in contact for more than a few seconds with any one portion, and the whole operation did not last longer than fifteen minutes. The current was allowed to continue while the needles were slowly withdrawn. The same precautions as I have always used in introducing the needles by a valvular opening, and in applying pressure on withdrawal, were observed. A slight amount of swelling and tenderness lasted for a few days. A steadily increasing thickness of wall could be noticed for two or three months, when the improvement ceased ; and by the end of five months and a half, it seemed desirable to repeat the operation because deterioration had again begun. The operation was repeated four times in essentially the same way. The opportunity was, of course, taken to vary the