6 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OE MEDICINE. authors think, opens out an entirely untrodden field of investigation, stretching far beyond the limits of the earth or even of our solar system, for the same method of analysis may be applied to the atmospheres of the sun and of the brighter fixed stars. Cooke.—Elements of Chemical Physics, pp. 739. Boston, j 860. Cooke's work forms a complete system of chemical physics. It begins with an account of the properties of matter, and of mechanical force. The properties of adhesion aud attraction are next examined, and, lastly, the effects of heat, &c, on matter. The author makes free use of mathe- matics in his descriptions and explanations. Fresenius.—A System of Instruction in Quantitative Chemical Analysis. 3d edition. Edited by J. Lloyd Bullock. In the preface to Fresenius's work on quantitative analysis, it is stated that the entire work has been recast, considerably simplified, and almost rewritten. New matter has been introduced, to the extent of one fourth of the whole volume. Many of the processes—the best then known, but rendered obsolete by the progress of science—have been replaced by others more certain, simple, and efficient, and this is particu- larly the case with the volumetrical processes. Prof. George E. Day.—Chemistry in its Relations to Physiology and Medicine. With five plates, containing numerous engraved illus- trations. Lond., i860, pp. 524. In this volume the author has entered much more fully into the physio- logical than into the chemical relations of the fluids and tissues of the body. The subject-matter of the volume is divided into three great heads : 1. The organic substrata of the animal body, or the proximate princi- ples entering into the composition of the solids and fluids of the organism. 2. The chemistry of the animal juices and tissues, which are classified into the five following groups :—(a) the digestive fluids; (b) the blood, and its allies, the chyle and the lymph; (c) the fluids connected with generation and development, including the seminal fluid, the milk, and the fluid of the egg; (d) the excretions of the mucous membranes and the skin, including mucus, the various sebaceous matters, and the sweat; (e) the urine. 3. The great zoo-chemical processes, including the metamorphoses of the tissues and the essential factors in animal metamorphoses, viz., albu- mens, fats, carbo-hydrates, and mineral constituents of the body. Bernard.—Lectures on Experimental Pathology and Operative Physio- logy. Delivered at the College of France during the Winter- session 1859-60. Medical Times and Gazette, January 7th, and fol- lowing numbers. In his third lecture, Bernard points out how the physiologist has it in his power, to produce at pleasure not only the symptoms of disease, but also the morbid changes themselves. Thus, for example, by directly acting on the pneumogastric nerve, cough, dyspnoea, and increased bron- chial secretion may be induced on the one hand, and, on the other, the