NERVOUS SYSTEM. 45 accelerated after the removal of the ganglia, and that the blood-vessels are enlarged, as is the case with those of the head after section of the cervical sympathetic. It would seem as if the vessels even allowed the blood to transude through their walls; for it occasionally happens that the tenacious slimy mucus is deeply tinged with blood. In two cases Budge found an enlargement of the liver follow upon extirpation of the ganglia. The operation is accompanied with a con- siderable amount of pain ; but if the splanchnic nerves are previously divided, the animals do not seem to be at all conscious of any suffering. A. Moreau. (i) Researches on the Sensory and Motor Roots of Nerves in Birds. Gaz. Med., 1859., No. 41, p. 646. (2) Experiments on the Sensory, Motor, and Pneumo-gastric Nerves oj Fishes. Ib., Nr. 40, p. 582. In birds aud fishes the posterior roots are sensitive, and the anterior are motor. On galvanizing the vagus nerve of the dog-fish, no movements of the part it supplies are excited, though sensory phenomena and reflex movements ensue. C. H. Bosse.—On the Influence of the Spinal Ganglions on the Nutrition of the Posterior Roots of the Spinal Nerves. Dorpat, 1859. 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 106. In frogs it is found that after division of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, the part connected with the ganglion is later in undergoing degeneration than the proximal fragment. With the anterior roots it is the reverse. The degeneration commences with the coagulation of the nerve pulp ; it next proceeds to fatty transformation, then to absorption of the fat, and finally to conversion of the nerve-tube into connective tissue. The author believes the ganglionic corpuscles to be the media through which the nutrition of the nerve is effected. Philipeatjx and Vulpian.—Experimental Researches on the Generation of Nerves Separated from the Nervous Centres. Compt. Rend., Sept. i860, p. 363. "When a nerve is divided transversely, it is believed that the peripheral portion of the nerve undergoes an important structural change, and loses its functions. All physiologists admit that the structural change, as well as the loss of function, is permanent, unless union takes place between the divided ends of the nerve. Philipeaux and Vulpian state that this opinion must be completely modified, as they have found by experiment that the peripheral portion of a nerve, separated from the central portion of the same nerve by section or by excision, can, after being completely changed, recover more or less perfectly its physiological properties and normal structure, without a previous union taking place between the two end3. This fact, the authors believe, is of great importance ; for it proves— 1. That the maintaining of the normal structure of the nerve is not so dependent upon its connection with the nerve-centres as was thought, since it can be shown that a degenerated nerve can re-obtain its normal characters and functions after it has been completely severed from the nervous centre. 2. That the power of exciting muscular movements, and giving rise to sensation, is not totally dependent on the central nervous system, for these