806 REPORT ON SUlUiERY. The author considers the minuteness of modern anatomical investiga- tions in liernin, and the prolixity of the descriptions of operations for it, to he exaggerations which frighten some surgeons. Gosselin.—The Taxis in Strangulated Hernia. — Gaz. Hehd., vi, 44, 46, 1859. Schmidt, No. 8, vol. 107, p. 217. In 1844, Gosaelin recommended a forcihle and prolonged application of the taxis in all cases of hernia where the strangulation had not exceeded twenty-four hours, after which period he considered it dangerous on account of the possihle replacement of gangrenous or perforated gut. He now publishes the results of eighty-five cases, twenty-nine of which were treated hy the tnxis alcne, in most of them applied continuously during from thirty to sixty minutes. Two of these twenty-nine cases were fatal, one from perforation of the bowel, the other because the taxis failed, and an operation was declined. The remaining twenty-seven suc- cessful cases soon recovered, with a single exception, in which the belly continued swollen and painful for a few days afterwards. His mode of using the taxis is by placing both hands on the rupture and pressing lightly for five minutes, after which the pressure is to be increased and continued during fifty to sixty minutes by the operator, who bends over his patient and throws the weight of his body on his hands, or by an assistant placing his hands over those of the surgeon when the latter becomes tired. Go.'selin thinks favorably of chloroform, but ascribes its beneficial action to the production of anaesthesia, which allows more force to be used, than to relaxation of the abdominal muscles. He notices the occasional apparent reduction of a hernia whilst the strangulation persists, and the apparent non-reduction of a hernia the contents of which have actually been replaced in the abdominal cavity; and explains the former circumstance by supposing, in scrotal hernia, that the contents are pushed up into the inguinal canal only; the latter he considers to be due to swelling of the sac, coverings, &c. He thinks that this mode of using the taxis does not place the patient in a more unfavorable condition for an operation, if this should become necessary. Rouse, Jas.—Cases of Strangulated Hernia; with Remarks on the Impropriety of Applying Forcible Taxis. Brit. Med. Journ., June 23d, p. 473- BRYANT, R.—On the Use of Chloroform in Strangulated Hernia as Indi- cating an Improved Practice. London Monthly Med. Rev., Aug., p. 67. The exhibition of chloroform till the patient is thoroughly insensible and relaxed is warmly advocated by Bryant as a most useful auxiliary to the taxis. Bryant, R.—On Constipation after the Operation for Strangulated Hernia. London Monthly Med. Rev., Oct., p. 170. Bryant points out the injurious consequences of purging after hernio- tomy, and shows that the constipation after the replacement of the strangulated bowel is a natural result of the injury the latter has under- gone, and that it disappears when the bowel regains its healthy state.