CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 191 Bouillaud advises the use of iodide of potassium in the treatment of aneurisms. A female with an aneurism of the carotid, took for some days 15 grains, and afterwards for two months 30 grains daily. At the end of this period the tumour might be considered to have dis- appeared completely. Klob.—On the position of the Heart in Emphysema of the Lungs. Brit. and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan., i860. Zeitschr. d. k. k. Gesell. (1. Aerztc Zu Wien, No. 5, 1859. Klob states on accourit of the rigor mortis of the diaphragm dis- appearing early while intestinal distension takes place, the heart is pushed upwards and to the left, so that the apex is pushed upwards from ii—2 inches. From this he is disposed to question the evidence afforded by autopsies, that emphysema induces a horizontal position of the heart. J. Parrot.—Inquiry into Sweating of Blood and Neuropathic Haemor- rhages. Brit, and For. Med.-Oh. Rev., Jan., i860. Gaz. Hebdom., Nos. 40, 41, 43. J. Parrot details accurately an interesting case of hemorrhagic flow from the cutaneous surface occurring in the person of a married lady. The hemorrhage was commonly due to mental emotion, and was associated with a temporary loss of motor and sensory power, and occasionally witli epileptic fits. The disorder first appeared at set. 9, the catamenia at get. 11. Richardson.—Lectures on Fibrinous Deposition in the Heart. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 14, 21, 28 ; Feb. 11. In a series of lectures on fibrinous deposition in the heart, Richard- son first examines the various forms of concretion, and the modes by which they are produced. He notices (a) the common form of con- cretion in which the fibrine lies on the superior surface of a red coagulum; (b) when it forms a firm, white, striated mass, filling a cavity or tube, or even distending it; (c) in another form of deposition the surface is grooved more or less deeply, by a curved or spiral channel which has resulted from a stream of moving blood; (d) in another form the concretion is tubular, and contains a column of red blood in its interior; (e) occasionally fibrine is deposited as a, kind of lining to the endocardial surface. These forms of concretion may adhere to the walls of the containing cavity either by mechanical or organic adhesions, the latter including vessels. The colour of a fibrinous mass depends entirely on the amount of hsematine contained in it. Its consistence varies from that of a soft, gelatinous mass loaded with fluid, to that of a firm, tough substance as dense as boiled white of egg. Again, a fibrinous deposit may be soft and creamy in its interior and firm externally. The softer kinds of fibrine belong to asthenic states of system. In structure these deposits are more or less plainly laminated. Microscopic examination shows a closely woven fibrillar network, entangling colourless cells exactly similar to the white corpuscles of the blood; in one case of an organized concretion Dr. Richardson found an areolar web, rich in white cells and abun-