PAKASITES. 109 A".II essen.— On the Urinary Excretion in Epilepsy. Thesis, 18 59. Canst., Hensen sUjdied the amount of urine passed in twenty-four hours by epileptics, its specific gravity, and the quantity of chloride of sodium, urea, and phosphoric acid, it contained. He gives a full report of his researches in five cases, from which we draw the following facts :— (1) that epileptics make more urine during the night than during the day which is the reverse of the normal state ; (2) that the amount of chloride of sodium and phosphoric acid varies very much, and that the quantity or quality of the food taken does not satisfactorily account for these variations ; (3) the total amount of urea is more or less abnormally diminished, while the quantity passed at night is proportionally greater than in health; (4) the convulsions probably increase the quantity of urea, but the author's experiments do not allow him to offer any positive opinion on this point; (5) the crystals of uric acid in the urine are increased after the fits; (6) no sugar was found in the urine of any of the cases. PARASITES. Wm. Turner, M.B.—Observations on the Trichina Spiralis. Ed. Med. Journ., Sept., p. 209. From the published researches of others, the following conclusions have been drawn :—That the trichina, as met with in muscle, represents the immature condition of a nematoid worm ; that, shortly after it is taken into the intestine, it becomes fully developed, and produces thread-like worms, which, after a few days, bore their way through the intestinal walls, and ultimately reach the voluntary muscles, where they become cap- sulated. Turner gave to some animals portions of muscle containing specimens of trichina, and from his examination of the animals after death he was led to the following conclusions. (1) The trichinae may propagate in the intestine; and (2) while some of the young remain behind in the gut as thread-like worms, others emigrate from the intestine, work their way into the muscles, and there become encysted. (3) The cysts themselves exhibit, at first, the characters of having been recently formed; they are transparent, have no deposit of calcareous particles, either in their walls or cavities, with an absence of fatty degeneration in the surrounding muscular fibres and of the deposition of fat-cells in their vicinity. In no case was Turner able to find indications of the passage of the worm through the intestinal wall, although he examined the intestine microscopically at many places. Virchow has met with trichinae in the mesenteric glands, and Herbst has seen them in the mesentery of an owl. The worms are most numerous, as first pointed out by Owen, in the superficial muscles of the body, and in the surface of the muscle, which shows that they have a tendency to work their way towards the exterior. When the worms have reached the muscles and become encysted, they remain dormant, many of them undergoing calcareous degeneration. Turner has compiled from various medical journals the following table of recorded cases, and appended to it six cases which came under his own observation: