GENERAL TREATISES AND REPORTS. 477 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. I. GENERAL TREATISES AND REPORTS. Simon.—Report of the Medical Officer of Health to the Privy Council. 1859. The report consists of four parts, of which the first relates to public vaccination, the second includes inquiries relating to the causes of dis- ease in single localities, the third to the mortality from diarrhcea, and the fourth to the prevalence of diphtheria. Under the head of public vaccination, the author, after giving a summary statement of the facts con- tained in his former report on vaccination, which prove the factitious and unprotective character of much of the prevailing vaccination in England, both public and private, relates the considerations which led the Privy Council to take steps for improving the qualifications of public vaccinators, and securing the efficient performence of their duties. The measures taken by the Privy Council in pursuance of the provisions of the Public Health Act, 1858, for promoting a better supply of vaccine lymph, are also nar- rated. To obviate the deficiency arising from too great subdivision, recommendations were made to the Poor Law Board, and through that body to the boards of guardians, suggesting a reduction of the number of stations, particularly in the metropolis and other large towns. This suggestion lias been very extensively carried out. As a further means of promoting the same object, Mr. Simon reports favorably on the method recom- mended by Dr. Husband in the paper quoted below. The remainder of the report consists entirely of original contributions, of which an account will be found under the names of their respective authors. Parkin.—The Causation and Prevention of Disease. London, 8vo, 1859. The author refuses his assent to the common opinion which refers the production of zymotic diseases to the decomposition of animal and vege- table matter, to overcrowding, or the use of impure water; and cites the innumerable instances in which persons subject to these influences are in the enjoyment of perfect health. He further shows that the known gaseous products of decomposition are each of them, taken separately, incapable of producing disease. He admits, however, the existence of poisonous elements in the atmosphere, which originate, not at the surface of the earth, but by " volcanic action " in its interior. " All general and specific diseases—or, in other words, epidemics and endemics—are due to the extrication of a gaseous substance from the interior to the exterior of the earth." Vernois.—Treatise on Industrial and Administrative Hygiene, comprising the Study of unwholesome, dangerous, and inconvenient Trades. 2 vols., 8vo, Paris, i860. This work is divided into two parts, of which the first treats of the relations of public health with the administration ; the second, which