ItErOItT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 478 constitutes the greater part, of the various branches of industry, in their relation to health. The first part treats in succession questions relating to habitations, alimentation, the causes of accidents, and the means to bo used for providing against them; nuisances arising from noise smells smoke; the questions of ventilation, warming, disinfection, in relation both to town and country life. The second part, of which the arrange- ment is that of an encyclopedia, contains all necessary details as regards the nature ot the operations involved in each branch of iudustrv, and the causes of its unwholesomeness. II. MEDICAL STATISTICS. Boudin.—Treatise on Medical Statistics and Geography, and on Epi- demic Diseases. 2 vols. 8vo. Boudin's comprehensive work is divided into two parts, of which the first treats of physical geography and medical meteorology; the second of man, regarded in a geographical point of view. Under the first head, the influence of season on conceptions, births, marriages, sickness, and deaths, is discussed. It also comprises sections on medical geology, or the influence of the earth's crust on the social relations and diseases of man, medical hydrology, meteorology proper, and climatology. The second part relates to the progress of population, and the mean duration and ex- pectation of life, as modified by local and climatic peculiarities. Gaikdner. — Infantile Death-rates in their bearings on Sanitary and Social Science. Trans. Ass. Soc. Sc., p. 632, i860. The author founds important conclusions on the relation between the death-rate of infants under one year, and the rate of mortality of persons of all ages. From the statistics of mortality of a large num- ber of urban and rural districts, he arrives at the conclusion that those causes which produce a high rate of general mortality have a still greater tendency to augment the death-rate of infants under one year. Thus he finds that in districts in which the general death-rate is 2 per cent., the infantile death-rate is seven and a half times greater; that in districts in which the former is i'6 per cent., the latter is only six and a half times greater ; that in those in which the former is 2-2 per cent., the latter is eight and a half times as great. In most instances in which the infantile death-rate is greater than it should be, the author is disposed to attribute it to the neglect of the family relation or the maternal duty, and, in some districts, to the employment of women in special industries, and the consequent interference with rearing of children. From the statistics of the metropolis Dr. Gairdner derives the alarming result that, while the death-rate of the west-end parishes is far below the average of town districts, the infantile death-rate is enormous ; e. g., the infantile mortality of St. George's, Hanover Square, is actually greater than that of Stepney. Twenty-first Annual Report of the Registrar-General of Births, Marriages, and Deaths, in England. London, 8vo, i860. The report of the Registrar-General contains the usual aggregate of statistical information, in the form of tabular abstracts and summaries, for the year 1858. In discussing the summaries of the " Quarterly Returns," he draws the following inferences relating to the influence of modem