467 PREGNANCY AND ABORTION. IMPOTENCE AND STERILITY. Schneider.—Medical Opinion given before the Supreme Court in a Divorce Case. Deut. Zeit., vol. xiii, part 2. In this case the application to have the marriage annulled was on the ground of partial hypospadias. Chesnet.—Malformation of the Genital Organs; Hypospadias ; mistaken Sex. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xiv, p. 206. PREGNANCY AND ABORTION. Kussmaul.—On Conception after Impregnation, (Nach-empfangniss), or on Superfcetation and Super-impregnation. Deut. Zeit., vol. xiii, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 23. The word superfcetation (Ueberschwaugerung) is limited by the author to signify the impregnation of several ova, matured during the same period of ovulation by one act of intercourse, a case which is proved to occur in the mare, and'is probable in the human female ; while super-impregnation (Ueberfruchtung) takes place when an ovum of the second or any subse- quent ovulation after the commencement of pregnancy, is fecundated. The possibility of this occurring in the human female is also unproved, as all the existing cases of so-called superfcetation admit of other explana- tions. These cases may be divided into those of impregnation of two ova of the same ovulation, developed in different situations, and those where impregnation has occurred during extra-uterine pregnancy, and has been followed by the death of the embryo (superfcetatio impropria). No case has been reliably recorded in which a woman has conceived while a dead ovum was retained in the uterus. Neither the decidua nor the mucous plug of the os internum would offer any absolute obstacle to the penetration of the semen, but the ovum itself, as soon as it occupies the whole cavity of the uterus, would constitute such an obstacle. Inferences in favour of superfcetation are to be drawn from cases in which mature twin children have been born at intervals of several months. The most remarkable of these are subject to the explana- tion that the one was premature and born before the time, and that the development of the second was retarded, and that it was born after the time, an hypothesis which derives support from the remarkable observa- tions of Bischoff and Ziegler on the development of the ovum of the roe. Vox Kletzinsky.—Abortifacients, considered in a Chemico-Legal point of View. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, part 4. Canst., vol. vii, p. 24. According to this author, abortifacients are to be divided in a chemical point of view into two classes, of which the first includes the more powerful emmenagogues and those substances which are supposed, rightly or wrongly, to exercise a special action on the pregnant uterus (compounds of boracic acid, ergot, and its alkaloid) ; and the second, all drastic pur- gatives, the more powerful emetics, and the sternutatories. Having arrived at the conclusion that the substance in question is an abortifacient, the chemist will direct his inquiries to the following drugs and chemical compounds :—the alkaloids, ergotineand veratrine; the metallic poisons,