GENITO-TJRINARY ORGANS. 817 2. Lithotomy. Heyfelder, J. F. — Vesical Calculi and Lithotomy. Deutsche Klinik, Oct. 6th, p. 393. Most of Ileyfelder's stone patients were children from the neigh- bourhood of Moscow. He found the Vichy waters very useful in gravel in adults. A fatal, lateral lithotomy is reported, where the bladder was found divided by a constriction into two cavities ; from the anterior a calculus had been removed, the posterior still contained one. Buchanan, A.—On Lithotomy considered as a Cause of Death, with Remarks on the Present State of the Operation usually called the "Rectangular Operation for Stone;" and on the best Method of Extending the Ordinary Incisions in that Operation, for the purpose of Extracting Stones of unusually Large Size. Med. Times and Gaz., March 31st, p. 311 ; April 7th; 14th, p. 339. The author discusses the various causes of death after lithotomy, and recommends a median operation, with a rectangular staff, which, he says, is less liable to be followed by infiltration of urine than the common lateral operation. Edwards.—Notes on the State of Lithotomy, Past and Presoit. (From a Lecture.) Edin. Med. Journ., June, p. 1082. A historical sketch of the various modifications which lithotomy has undergone, from the earliest recorded notices to the present day. Birkett.—Lithotomy for a Second Time in the same Patient. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 15th, p. 584. The second operation was performed six years after the first, during five of which he had been quite free from symptoms of stone. The inci- sion was made in the situation of the former one. Rigby, James.—Notes of Three Cases of Lithotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 8, p. 555. In one of these cases the bilateral operation was performed, on account of the large size of the stone. Price.—Tivo Cases of Stone in the Bladder ; Lithotomy ; Recovery; the Second Case Operated on for the Third Time. Lancet, April 14th. P. 372. Price repeated the lateral operation a second and third time on the same patient, cutting in the scar of the first operation. Case in whi°h t^re were Fourteen Stones in the Bladder of a Man cet.-j2; Lithotomy; Unsuccessful Result. Lancet, June 16th p. 596. Uke.—Stone in the Bladder; Lithotomy; Inflammation at the Neck of the Bladder ; Complete Recovery. Lancet, Oct. 6th, p. 339. Williams.—Report of Cases of Calculus Vesica Operated on, during the Years 1858-59, in the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital. Lancet Aug. 18th, p. 164. ' This embraces twenty-two cases of stone in the bladder, in thirteen of which the lateral operation was done, and the median in eight; in one (a