197 OIRCULATOKT SYSTEM. frequently loaded with pigment and grouped together in masses. In tie liver also there were abundant pigmentary deposits, the granules of pigment being chiefly contained in fusiform or branched cells. The hepatic cells were enlarged, contained brown yellow, but not black pigment. The small vessels of the brain were filled with pigment (not in cells), and there was some also but less in the vessels of the lungs, heart, intestines, and kidneys. Koser.—On Pyemia. Arch. d. Heilk., i, 3, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 297. Koser considers that there is a primary form of Pyaemia depending on the introduction of a specific poison into the system, like that of scarlatina, &c. He thinks that there is also a secondary, in which the system becomes infected from a poison formed in some individual organ of the patient's own body. He makes some remarks on attacks of febricula, erysipelas, and diarrhoea, which he believes to be milder manifestations of the same pyaemic disease. Febricula is often observed in lying-in hospitals during the presence of pyaemia. With regard to erysipelas he holds to the English view, that it is often a first effect of the pyemic infection. Pysernic diarrhoea may co- exist with other pyaemic manifestations, or precede them, or exist alone.' Shearer.—Case of Leucocythemia. Eclin. Med. J., July, p. 48. Shearer, in commenting on his case of leucocythemia, expresses the opinion that the white corpuscles are not derived from the red discs, but are formed independently in the blood. He has observed the white corpuscles to be increased in various diseases, all attended with depreciation of the appetite, and emaciation. Stokes and O'Ferrall.—Case of obscure Aneurism of the Aorta. Dublin Ilosp. Gaz., July 2nd. In this case a correct diagnosis was formed—1st, from the lancinating pains shooting from the mammary region towards the axilla; and 2nd, from the peculiar hard and ringing cough. During life there was no dysphagia (although the tumour was reflected and bent over the oesophagus), no laryngeal stridor, no pulsation, no inequality of the radial pulses. The aneurism was one of the transverse portion of the aorta, and the sac had opened by two perforations into the left bronchial tube, against which, during life, it must have pressed severely. Eisenmann. On Chloroancemia. Med. T. and Gaz., July 14th. Bull de Therap. t. 57, p. 250. Eisenmann regards cnloroanremia as primarily a nervous affection and advises the administration of St. Ignatius bean, hi powder, com- bined with iron and rhubarb. Kuhner. On the influence of Valvular Disease of the Heart in vromotina Diuresis. Brit, and For. Mcd.-Ch. Rev., July, p. 2co Arch f pnys. Heilk., 4, 1859. JJ