POISONS AND POISONING. 459 In this case a labourer, tet. 43, took by mistake for cod-liver oil about $oz of impure croton oil. The patient was convalescent in a fortnight, the treatment consisting in the administration of bland oils and demul- cents, with a milk diet. The symptoms were, depression of the circula- tion, manifested by the feeble, slow, but regular pulse (64), cyanosis and coldness of the extremities, and the feeling of cold ; respiration slow and difficult; purging and vomiting; redness of the fauces; pain in the pharynx, stomach, and bowels, and headache. Cancella.—Case of Poisoning by Arum Maculatum. Gaceta Med. d' Oporto, vol. vi, i860. A child, set. 3, chewed, at two p.m. on the 2olh of April, i860, leaves and flowers of the common arum. He complained immediately of burn- ing heat; in three hours he fell into a state of profound torpor; at eight p.m. he was prostrate, speechless, but occasionally uttered a piercing cry, often putting his hand to his throat. There was marked abdominal ten- derness on pressure. Death took place at eleven, preceded by delirium and asphyxia. Farre.—Two Cases of Poisoning by eating Lemons. Recovery. Lancet, Nov. 24, p. 308. Two children, aged three and five respectively, were brought into hos- pital in a state of collapse, which was attributed to eating one or two lemons. It was not known whether they had taken any other poison. Socbeiran.—Note on a Poisonous Species of Loranthus. Jo urn. de Pharm., vol. xxxvii, p. 112. After giving an account of the therapeutical uses to which the mistletoe tribe are applied in various countries, the author describes the toxical action of a species of loranthus, which grows on the branches of the strychnos nux vomica, as being identical with that of the latter. He be- lieves that these plants in general derive their activity from the plants on which they grow parasitically. Lallemaxd and Chevret.—Poisoning by Mushrooms. Death of five officers. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxviii, p. 337. In this instance a poisonous species of amanita was served to the mess of a regiment of infantry, by mistake for the common eatable oronge (also a species of amanita, which grows in the woods in autumn). The symp- toms were vomiting, epigastric pain, and abdominal cramps. Six officers partook of the mushrooms, of whom five died, and one recovered. The fatal result was preceded by slight delirium, but no other symptom referable to the nervous system wa3 observed. The paper includes a full discussion of the characteristics by which the poisonous species may be distinguished, and of the symptoms and treatment of mushroom poisoning. Lancereaux.—Poisoning by Mushrooms. Gaz. de Par., No. 43. Marotte.—On Poisoning by Mushrooms. Gaz. des Hop., No. 132. 11. Hydrocyanic Acid and Cyanide of Potassium. Schauenstein.— Cyanide of Potassium in its Forensic relations. Wien. Zeitsch., 1859, vol. xv, No. 1. Canst., vol. vii, p. 15.