VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY. 115 E. FltEMY. — On the Com])osition and Mode of Production of Gum in the Vegetable Organism. Compt. Rend., iCth January, i860, p. 124. The following is a resume of the new facts Fremy ascertained : 1. Gum arabic is not a neutral immediate principle; it ought to be re- garded as a compound substance resulting from the combination of a feeble acid with lime. The acid Fremy names gummic acid : it is soluble in water. 2. This acid is capable of undergoing an isomeric modification by the action of heat, or under the influence of concentrated sulphuric acid. The author calls it metagummic acid. It is insoluble. 3. Bases, chiefly lime, combine with the acid and form the insoluble gummate of lime, which possesses all the chemical characters of gum arabic. 4. The soluble compound of lime, which we call common gum, can also undergo, as Gelis pointed out, under the influence of heat, an iso- meric modification—the metagummate of lime. This insoluble substance re-acquires its solubility under the influence of vegetation or of boiling water. It forms the gelatinous part of certain gums, such as that of the cherry-tree. 5. There exist in the vegetable kingdom several insoluble gelatinous bodies, which by their transformations produce different kinds of gum. Payen.—Starch and Celhdose : Observations on the remarkable Analogy, and different Characters of these tivo immediate Principles. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii, p. 67. Payen.—Observations on Vegetable Tissue; new Character by which Starch can be distinguished from Celhdose. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii, p. 319. According to Payen, the ammoniacal oxide of nickel is a test by which cellulose can be readily distinguished from starch ; for while this test does not exert any visible influence upon cellulose, it causes starch to swell up, and gradually undergo the same changes as in the presence of an ammo- niacal solution of the oxide of copper. E. Fremy.—Researches on the Green Colouring Matter of Leaves. Compt. Rend., 27th February, i860, p. 405. Some of the conclusions at which Fremy has arrived are :—1. The green colouring-matter of leaves may give origin to a blue and to a yellow pigment. 2. These colouring matters combine with silica, and form in- soluble compounds. 3. The yellow is a more stable colouring-matter than the blue. A. Froehde.—Contribution to our Knowledge of Albuminous Substances. Erdm. Journ., vol. Ixxvii, part 5, p. 290. Canst., vol. i, p. 205. The researches of Froehde were made upon legumin obtained from lentil-meal, by stirring it in tepid water for a considerable time, adding a few drops of ammonia, and then filtering it through cloth. The legumin was separated from this solution, in the form of a fine white pre- cipitate, by means of dilute acetic acid. The precipitate was purified by washing it with hot water, with alcohol, and lastly with ether, in order to free it from fat. The ether and alcohol were, in their turn, removed, by redissolving the substance in water, and reprecipitating it with dilute sulphuric acid. Legumin, so prepared, when perfectly dry, is brittle