PREGNANCY. 847 resembled, in all essential particulars, the others more recently recorded by Depaul. Depaul.—On littention of Urine in the Fcetus as a Cause of Obstructed Labour. Gaz. Hebd., May 18, 25, June 8, i860. Dipaul contends that the functions of the kidneys become established at an early period of foetal life, the urine passing into the liquor amnii; and he calls attention to the fact that when, from malformation or any obstacle, the urine is prevented escaping in this manner, the bladder may become so distended as to obstruct delivery. The proper treatment of such cases is puncture of the distended bladder at the seat of the funis. Depaul cites at length a case observed by himself, in which the head and one arm had been detached by a midwife in the attempt to deliver. A large fluctuating tumour, which proved to be the distended bladder, was emptied of five pints of fluid, and the labour then completed. Four other analogous cases are quoted. Dreissigacker.—Difficult Labour : Twins adherent by the Thoracic and Abdominal Surfaces. Allg. "Wien. Med. Ztg., 39, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 66. Schoenfeld.—A Case of Twins. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 18^9. Schmidt, June, vol. 106, 307. Dr. Meadows.—Delivery of a Living Child, weighing upwards of Eighteen Pounds. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 4, i860, p. 105. The author states that this is the largest child ever born alive. The child presented by the breech, and died suddenly four hours after delivery. Extreme length 32 inches, circumference of head 17^ inches. jACaOEMIER.—On the Volume of the Thorax and Shoulders of the Foetus, considered as cause of Dystocia in cases of Cephalic Presenta- tion. Gaz. Hebd., Oct. 5, 12, 26, i860. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PLACENTA, F(ETAL APPENDAGES, ETC. Dr. J. Hall Davis.—Double Battledoor Placenta, with a Single Um- bilical Cord, connected ivith one Child. Obst. Trans., vol.ii, p. 273. Kuenecke.—A Case of Placenta Prcevia Succenturiata. Mon f Geb May, 1859. ' Dr. John W. Ogle— Large Mass within the Cavity of the Uterus, sup- posed to be a Fibrous Tumour, but which proved to be formed by Retained Placenta and Foetal Membranes. Trans. Path. Soc vol. xi, p. 179. Wegsciieideu.—Case of Placenta Prcevia. Mon. f. Geb., Jan., i860. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 188. This case is remarkable from the fact that death occurred during labour, without any apparently sufficient cause: child also born dead. The loss of blood had been trifling, and after death no pathological alteration was detected, heyond fatty degeneration of the heart. The author believes that, with this condition of the heart, the trifling loss of blood which occurred was the cause of the fatal collapse. There had been haemorrhage the previous day. The presentation of the placenta was central ■ the woman had had eight pregnancies quickly succeeding each other.