48 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. motion, warm and cold), sulphuric ncid, nmmonia, &c, in desiccating the nerves. When the desiccation has proceeded to a certain extent, mus- cular spasms occur very readily from gently touching, pulling, electrifying, or chilling the nerve. At an earlier stage, elevation of temperature pro- vokes the spasms at once. Several facts show that the intensity of the mus- cular twitchinga by no means increases in proportion to the rapidity of evaporation from the nerve. The spasms may be absent under circum- stances favorable to evaporation ; they may also occur when the nerve, after losing much moisture, is exposed to a more humid or to a cooler atmosphere. E. Haeless. — Molecular Processes in Nerve-Subs lance. 2d part, Munich, 4to. Canst., vol. i, p. 91. From multifarious experiments it appears that the cohesion and elas- ticity of the nerves suffer no perceptible change during the period of their activity. Even if a considerable quantity of medullary substance be expressed, or if a portion of the salts be dissolved out, nervous action is not destroyed. The probability therefore is, that the vital phenomena of nerves are determined by the transformation of their albuminous con- stituents. The author concludes from other experiments that nerves manifesting high irritability in common air lose it by contact with ozone; but if the irritability has already been on the decline in the atmosphere, first regain and then rapidly lose their power. Nerves enfeebled by ozone may, when restored to atmospheric air, attain a higher degree of vigour than they originally possessed. Ozone tends gradually to induce contractions with the completion and interruption of the ascending current, and finally with its interruption alone. Here, too, a return to atmospheric air may restore the original state. E. PFLiiGER.—Experimental Contribution to the Theory of the Inhibitory Nerves. Reichert's u. Du Bois's Archiv, 1859, p. 13. Canst., vol. i, p. 108. J. M. Schiff.—Contributions to the Physiology of the so-called Inhibi- tory Nerves. A Reply to Dr. E. Pf tiger, of Berlin. Moleschott's Untersuchungen, vol. vii, p. 201. Canst., ib. Pfliiger believes that inhibition constitutes the chief function of the pneumogastric and splanchnic nerves, and that this idea is further sup- ported by the fact, that division of these nerves is followed by an increase in the number of the pulsations of the heart. Schiff, on the other hand, is opposed to this view, and asserts that, when these nerves are galvanized, the effect obtained on the heart entirely depends on the strength of the electric current, a feeble current augmenting, a strong current diminish- ing the heart's movements. Pfliiger again denies that the feeble current ever augments the number of pulsations; galvanism, he says, invariably reduces them. In reply, Schiff cites an experiment, the result of which is unfavorable to the assumed inhibitory action of the vagi. If, he says, the spinal accessory nerves of a cat or goat be pulled completely out hy the roots, the frequency of the pulse continues unchanged (4—12 days). The portion of the nerve which is united with the vagus having degene- rated within that period, stimulation of the vagi with a moderate or pretty