387 DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Lceschner.—On the Progressive Algidity, Sclerema, and so-called Infantile Decrepitude of Children. Jahrb. f. Kind., 1859, 3, 91. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 321. The author has observed sixteen cases in which the condition described by Hervieux as " algidite" progressive" was present in infants between the ages of six and twenty-six months. . He believes this condition to mark a symptom which may accompany certain diseased processes in children up to the age of two, probably three years, mostly during the first fifteen months. It is produced by disturbances of the processes subservient to nutrition or of the organs of respiration and circulation. Thomas Ballard.—A New and Rational Explanation of the Diseases peculiar to Infants and Mothers ; with Obvious Suggestions for their Prevention or Cure. 8vo, London, i860, Churchill, pp. 128. Mr. Ballard believes that "fruitless sucking" is the cause of many ailments in infancy whicb are commonly ascribed to teething ; and that it is the principal, if not the chief, cause of all the diseases of infancy in which we can recognise a failure of the processes of growth and nutrition. The excitation of the nerves of taste produces, according to Brown- Se'quard, "an abundant reflex secretion of gastric juice, and also a flow of bile and pancreatic juice in the bowels." The act of sucking is, Mr. Ballard remarks, par excellence the mode to induce this excitation, and it is obvious that these juices must be secreted abundantly during the exercise of this act. When the sucking is fruitless, the gastric juice is still secreted; but, having no food to exercise its solvent action upon, it acts on the raucous coat of the stomacb and intestines, causing various degrees of injury, and giving rise to most of the diseases of infancy. The effect of fruitless sucking is not less injurious, it is contended, on the puerperal woman, giving rise to mammary abscess, puerperal fevers, &c. In the second part of the work the author puts forward a new theory on "light, the only cause of purulent ophthalmia in infants." The explanations usually given of the occurrence of purulent ophthalmia in infants are unsatisfactory ; and he finds that, in the majority of the cases observed by him there was a cause in operation in all not before alluded to, namely, " the exposure of the infant to the light while sleeping in the daytime." The theory thus broached is supported, as is also the one relating to the effects of fruitless sucking, by very numerous observations of cases which have occurred in the author's practice. BRiiXNlCHE.—On Mortality and Diseases in Children, as influenced by Sex and Age. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 11 and 12, p. 323. Mayr.—On the Examination and Setneiology of the Sick Child. Jahrb. f. Kind., 1859,3. Hennig.—Text-book of the Diseases of Children at Various Ages. 2d ed., Leipzig and Heidelberg, 1859, 8vo, pp.473. Atiiol Johnson.—On an Injurious Habit occasionally met with in Infancy and Childhood. Lancet, April 7th, i860, p. 344. Athol Johnson records a case In which onanism was practised to a most injurious extent by a boy, set. 6. The sense of hearing was affected. The author, after trying other measures without effect, removed a piece of the foreskin ; the result was beneficial.