175 NERVOUS SYSTEM. the cordiac plexus, attended with cramp-like contraction of the muscular fibre of the heart. He cites three autopsies in which the heart was found more firmly contracted than after death from tetanus. HjjUON.—On Cystalgia and its Treatment, by potential Cauterization of the Eypogastrium. Union Medic. No. 81—113. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 41. Ilamon describes the pain in his cases (5 females with three relapses in one) as absent when the bladder was empty, increasing as the urine collects, and reaching its maximum when the stream of mine begins to flow. The sphincter is spasmodically contracted, as shown by attempting to introduce a catheter. The disease lasts for months, and at last becomes complicated with more or less paralysis of the bladder. Ilamon recommends superficial cauterization of the skin by nitric acid, and the repeated introduction of the catheter. C. Moynter.—On Chorea. (Journ. de Med. de Bruxelles, 1858, 1859). Canst., Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 48. Moynier shows (1) that the motor power of the muscles in the affected parts is impaired; (2) that the sensory power of the same is also enfeebled; (3) that the intellectual powers are weakened in propoi'tion to the intensity and duration of the disease; (4) in the same proportion anaemia is produced; (5) palpitation is frequent. Skoda.—Chorea. Clinique Europ., No. 7. Canst., Jahrb., Vol. iii, P- 57- Skoda relates a case of severe general chorea cured in five days by the free administration of tartar emetic and cold douches to the head. He opines that an exudation iu the spinal chord, or in the brain is the immediate cause of chorea, softening of the septum lucid, and fornix is found at least in some cases. Ign. Betoli.—Communicalilily of Tetanus from Animals to Men. Annali Univ., 1859, p. 98. Canst., Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 57. Betoli asserts that tetanus prevails epidemically, affecting both animals and human beings, iu the Brazils. He gives a doubtful case of its communication by eating the flesh of an ox who died with the disease. In the way of treatment Betoli relies upon wine exhibited freely with spirituous camphor enemata and an occasional castor-oil and sulphur aperient. General frictions to the surface arc also useful; they should be especially applied to the central point from whence the con- vulsions radiate. This central point in cases of traumatic tetanus, rarely coincides with the wound. Yki.la, Manec, Harley, Sayre, Gentrac, Ciiassaigxac, and Skwixl, record cases in which curare was tried on animals or man as a remedy for tetanus. A successful result was obtained in two out of live men, none of the animals recovered though the spasms were arrested in two out of three.—Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 62.