DISINFECTION. 485 At the close of their report, after giving a summary of the inquiries which have been made in London, the authors give an account of the method employed in Cologne, for preventing the escape of foul air from the sewers. It consists in filling up the shafts of the gully-grates with shavings impregnated with disinfectant fluids. Of these the lowest are impregnated with dilute sulphuric acid to absorb the ammonia; above these are arranged shavings steeped in milk of lime ; and at the top, car- bonate of lead mixed with four times its weight of milk of lime. Blyth.—An Improvement in the Manufacture of a Manure from Sewage- waters and other fluids containing Ammonia or Nitrogenous Mat- ter. Chem. News, Dec. ist, 1859. When superphosphate of magnesia is added to sewage containing ammonia, triple phosphate of magnesia_and ammonia is precipitated. The precipitate carries with it all the insoluble and nitrogenous matters held in suspension. The supernatant liquor is deodorized, and may be ex- posed to air without creating a nuisance. The great advantage which this process has over most others is that the matter added to the sewage is in itself a valuable manure. Datjbeny.—A Lecture on Sewage, delivered at Oxford. Chem. News, March 24. On the Influence of Sewer-air on Man. Ugeskrift for Laeger, Bd. xxviii, p. 435. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 177. A ground-labourer, uet. 40, after working for about three hours in a sewer, was obliged to leave off on account of the horribly stinking atmosphere. Next morning, after a sleepless night, he resumed his em- ployment, but was at once obliged to discontinue and go home to bed. At first he suffered from languor, anorexia, and sleeplessness, with slight nocturnal delirium. There was no fever and thirst, and the tongue was clean. Pulse 80—90 ; bowels confined. After these symptoms had con- tinued four days, an icteric tinge of the sclerotics, of the face and general surface, became perceptible. This did not become intense, and there was 110 corresponding alteration of the urine or excrements. On the eighth day there was hremorrhage from the nares and pharynx. Extreme prostration followed, but was very promptly succeeded by an improvement in all the symptoms, which led to convalescence. The treatment consisted in fresh air, support, and stimulants. Reil.—The various Syste7>is relating to the Arrangement of Privies. Casper, vol. xv, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 58. Reil considers the subject under the heads of ventilation, water, supply, and disinfection. Under the last head he discusses the merits of char- coal, earthy matters, chlorine, lime, pyroligneous acid, carbonic acid, and metallic salts. He gives the preference, on the ground of economy, to sulphate of iron. Siebek.—On the Sanitary Considerations relating to the Arrangements of Privies, with special reference to Berlin. Casper, vol. xv, part 2. Canst., vii, p. 58. In Berlin there are two kinds of closets, those furnished with moveable boxes, and ordinary privies. Waterclosets have been recently introduced, but are strongly condemned by the author, who is of opinion that the