REPORT ON riUCTICAL MEDICINE. 171 both particulars. (6) (7) Turck supposes tliat secondary dcgonera- tion produces no morbid symptoms. II. Demme.—Contributions to the Pathological Anatomy of Tetanus, and, other Diseases of the Nervous System. Canst. Jalirb., Vol. iii, p. 19. Demme has laboriously tested tlie accuracy of Rokitansky's views by original research, and confirmed them. The report contains a good summary of Kokitansky's and Dcmme's views, which have been already noticed, v. p. 167, and also the following observations by Eisenmann. Disturbance of the function of a nerve or nervous centre inducing altered nutrition, causes hyperamua; and if this continues long, or returns often, it leads, as a rule, but not invariably, to a growth (morbid) of the interstitial connective tissue of the nervous centre, whereby the disease becomes established and destructive. This latter change is, of course, not the primary element of neuroses, but only an accessory. Burq.—On a New Diagnostic Sign, fyc. Gaz. des Hop., No. 33. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 19. Burq affirms the efficacy of appropriate metallic rings, gold, silver, iron, brass, &c, put round the limb in curing paralytic neuroses of motion or sensation, or chorea. Turck.—On the Nature of the Nervous Fluid. Gaz. Med. de Lyon, May 16. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 19. Turck reports some marvellous cases of cure of various diseases by compression of one carotid, very prolonged warm baths (36 hours many times repeated), and cutting the hair short. He has a theory about the identity of some fluid pervading the whole organism with electricity. F. Lussana.—A Monograph on Vertigo, and Researches on Nervous Phy- siology. Annali Univcrsali, 1858, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 27. Lussana places the seat of giddiness in the cerebellum, optic thalami, tuberc. quadrig, and auditory centre. He distinguishes 3 original kinds of giddiness; viz.: of seeing, hearing, and muscular. Each of these may occur alone, or they may be combined. With respect to its cause Lussana divides giddiness into external, which again may be objective, sensorial, or reflected; and into internal or central. The latter he subdivides into symptomatic, congestive, ancemic, organic, nervous, and narcotic. The diagnostic characters of organic giddiness are stated as (1) cliro- nicity; (2) preceding obstinate pain on one side of the head; (3) gradual increase ; (4) it is continuous ; (5) it is associated with ambly- opia, or amaurosis; (6) by intra cranial pressure, other brain symptoms may be produced, or (7) symptoms referable to the medulla oblongata ; (8) disorder of the sexual function; (9) it is incurable. F. Lussana.—Respecting Angina Pectoris (cardiac neuralgia). Gaz. Med. Ital. Lomb., 1858. Canst., Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 37. Lussana adopts Lartiguc's view that angina pectoris is a neuralgia of