MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. 8 H. F. Baxter.—On Organic Polarity; showing a Connection to exist between Organic Forces and Ordinary Polar Forces. Crown 8vo. Dr. Alexander Henry.—A Glossary of Scientific Terms. For general use. Small 8vo, i860. Dr. Robert Fowler.— The Medical Vocabulary; containing a Concise Explanation of the Terms used in Medicine and its Accessory Sciences, pp. ,366, i860. Dr. Mayne.—An Expository Lexicon of the Terms, Ancient and Modern, in Medical and General Science, including a complete Medical and Medico-Legal Vocabulary. Churchill, i860. KoLLiKER.—A Manual of Human Microscopic Anatomy. With 249 illus- trations, pp. 6.33, i860. The book which Kb'Hiker now presents to the English public is, in the main, a condensed version of his German work, entitled ' Handbuch der Gewebclehre.'' 1st. With regard to the formation of cells, the author remarks that a distinction has been hitherto made between the/n?<? origin of cells and their production through the intervention of other cells. The further, however, investigation is prosecuted, the occurrence of a free cell-formation becomes more and more doubtful; and it appears that all animal cells arise, as in plants, in dependence upon other pre-existing cells. In this pro- cess of cell-multiplication the pre-existing cells either produce secondary cells, as they are called, or multiply by division—endogenous cell-formation and cell-formation by division. The cell-nuclei always play an essential part in the multiplication of cells, and appear to be the proper centres of formation for their evolution. In embryos the tissues are built up of the descendants of the cells which have arisen from the cleaving of the yelk, and even in pathological formations it would appear from recent researches that in many places where formerly a. free cell-formation was admitted, it does not occur. The multiplication of cells by division is well seen in the blood-corpuscles of embryos, while endogenous cell-formation is best studied in the ova of animals at the early period of their development, when the cleavage of the yelk is taking place. 2d. In speaking of the vital phenomena of fully developed cells, Kolliker remarks that, when cells are once formed, a considerable number of func- tions appear in them, which, like those of the entire organism, are divisible into animal and vegetative. The latter relate to the form of the cells and of their contents, as well as to their chemical composition, and may be designated by the names of growth and molecular changes. The nucleoli, and more especially the nuclei, also participate, to a certain degree, in the growth of the cells. 3d. Processes taking place in the interior of cells.—The phenomena manifested by cells during life may be designated as absorption, assimila- tion, and excretion. These are chiefly owing to chemical and physical causes, (a) With regard to absorption, it presents itself in all cells, and the primary cause of the entrance of material is simply to be sought in the capability of imbibition of the cell-wall and contents. By the term imbibition, however, it is not to be supposed that the cells indiscriminately admit all soluble substances approaching them ; for, on the contrary, they present, according to time and place, definite relations to the cytoblastema, rejecting one of its constituents and receiving another. This is proved by