117 SUBJECTS OV GENEKAL INTEltEST. vulsious, were the offspring of one male and two females rendered epileptic in consequence of an injury to the spinal cord. Dr. Martyn (Bristol).—On Connective Tissue. Arcliiv. of Med., No. vi, p. 99. Martyn thinks it is not too much to say that "cellular pathology, with all' its ramifications, is based on and rooted in the doctrine of con- nective substance;" for it is in it and the allied tissues that, according to Virchow's school, morbid processes begin. Tendon, which may be regarded as a good example of dense connective tissue, consists of—1, cells ; 2, fibres; and 3, a substance which Martyn calls " extracellular." As the cells are more difficult to understand as their age advances, our author has given a figure of them (fig. 2, Plate ix) from an infant at birth. They are then, he says, fusiform, forked, or caudate, including a long, dark-bordered nucleus, and are prolonged into fibres, which, when traced upwards or downwards, lead to other cells, also including nuclei. These fusiform cells are arranged at pretty regular intervals throughout the tissue, and have a great tendency to sit closely to the large nuclei, and thus their preseuce is often marked only by the existence of a sort of triangular gap, above and below the nucleus. In the adult tendon some of the cells have become still more closely attached to their nuclei, and their prolongations are so very fine as to escape notice readily, while in others a metamorphosis into fibres has taken place. Secondly, there are fibres in part proceeding from, and in part meandering between, the cells. These fibres are elastic tissue in a very rudimentary condition. The finely drawn-out cell, already referred to, may in some cases be long enough to extend as a fibre across the entire field of the microscope. When studying the adult tendon, Martyn proceeds as follows:—A very thin section of half-dried adult tendon, after being freed from fat, by dipping it several times into ether, and instantly pressing it between folds of blotting-paper, is placed with a drop of water, containing glycerin, under a power of 300 diams. When the section has expanded to its original width, a drop of dilute nitric acid is allowed to come in contact with it; the whole then becomes pale, and the cells are distinctly seen to have fine fibres attached to their points. Here and there a nucleus may be observed to shrivel and curl up, and become apparently, or even really, detached from its processes. The fibres are very fine, often requiring the smallest amount of light to be seen ; and it is not easy to measure their thickness, some being less than ^g-Jwyth of an inch. Acetic acid renders them invisible, leaving the elastic fibres unaffected, so that the cells seem to be merely nuclei, and the fibres to have no relation to them ; the truth being that the coarse fibres in adult tendon are never attached to cells retaining their typical form, while the true fine fibres which are attached to such cells have disappeared. Thirdly, there is between the cells and fibres a gray, longitudinally striated mass, which may be torn into smaller and smaller bundles, but not into ultimate fibrils. This is what our author terms " extracellular" substance. In transverse sections all the three elements are distinct; but another appearance is now added, to which great importance has been attached. Each cell has several processes radiating from it, and, especially in young