REPORT O.N I'UACTICAl. ilKDICIMC. no cases in the capital was 7219, and the deaths 4737. The disease was not severest in those parts of the town whose sanitary condition was the worst. The very young' and very old when attacked almost always died. In many cases there was no premonitory diarrhoea. From the capital the disorder radiated to different towns and villages, and in a great many instances it seemed clearly to have been propagated by contagion. The means adopted to stay the progress of the disease were (1) house to house visitation ; (2) removal of the healthy from infected houses; (3) providing eating houses. The second of these measures appears to have produced the best effects, though it was not adopted till the disease had reached its acme. Gordon.—On Rheumatism and allied Disease in India. Indian Annals, Jan., 1859. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Kev., Jan. Gordon shows that rheumatism is no unfrequent disease in India. Acute articular rheumatism is, however, not so frequent as at home, and cardiac inflammation seems certainly to be of rarer occurrence. In the home service the amount of rheumatism is stated at 6-89 per cent, of mean strength, in India it is 10-32, though much lower among women and children. The number of men invalided for disease of the heart in India is not a tenth of those invalided for the same cause at home. MbLLEit.—Meport ofthe Med. Policlinic for 1856 and 1857. Konigs- berg, Med. Jahrb. i, 3, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 52. Moller, at Kbnigsberg, relates, together with various cases of " interest, two instances of transmission of secondary syphilis. One was that of a child who communicated a roseola and condylomata to another healthy child who slept in the same bed. Another child infected a healthy woman who suckled it. He alludes to the transference of condylomata, various exanthemata and serpiginous ulcers from one to the other of two individuals of the same sex occupying the same bed, as having been not unfrequently observed in the vicinity of Kbnigsberg, and expresses his belief in the contagiousness of secondary syphilis. Croskery.—Treatment of the Fevers of the W. Indies. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb., i860. Croskery strongly recommends the following practice in fevers of the W. Indies. During the hot stage he gives 3ss of the mixture here stated eveiy half-hour, until free perspiration has taken place (Liq. Acet. Amnion. 5ij, Spt. Mth. Nit. Spt. Junip. Co. aa Sss, Ant, Pot. Tart, gr. iv., Tr. Hyoscy. 3ij, Tr. Opii 3i, Mist. Camph. adSxij). As soon as the fever lias gone off and the sweating stage been ushered in he gives Quinine gr. ij every hour, with a dose of 10—12 grains of calomel to clear out the prirnce viee, if one has not been given before. He strongly discountenances the use of quinine during the paroxysms or in large doses after. He contrasts the treatment of an epidemic of yellow fever which he witnessed as carried out at the convict establishment, and in the Naval Hospital. At the former the mortality was 20 per cent., at the latter only 3. The treatment at the former consisted in