NERVOUS SYSTEM. 177 statement that analgesia is the commencement of anaesthesia. Loss of the sense of contact and of temperature belong to the more advanced degrees of anajsthesia. Briquet reporting on this paper states that of 221 anaesthetic women only 160 had had convulsive attacks. Klstegho.—Essay on the so-called Hysterical Paraplegias. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 93. Rustegho reports five cases, in one of which all the four limbs had been set for four months in a state of stiff contraction and extension, and were e x (remely sensitive to contact. Convulsive attacks with loss of con- sciousness occurred every two days. A cure was obtained by full doses of opium. The muscles in these cases do not waste or lose their electric contractibiiity for a long time. Virchow and Bergson each describe a case of local atrophy, affecting in one the left side of the face, in the other also the left half of the tongue and uvula. Virchow regards these cases as neurotic atrophies, although the sensory and motor nerves retained then- functional powers. Bergson is inclined to think the arteries more at fault.—Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 100. PSYCHIATRIK. Forbes AVinsi.OW.—On Obscure Diseases of the Brain and Disorders of the Mind; their Incipient Symptoms, Pathology, Diagnosis, Treat- ment, and Prophylaxis. Churchill, p. 721. Fourteenth Beport of the Commissioners in Lunacy to the Lord Chan- cellor. Second Annual Beport of the General Board of Commissioners in Lunacy for Scotland. Busiinan.—Beligious Bevivals in relation to Nervous and Mental Diseases, p. 46. Churchill, w est.—Seventh Annual Beport of the Omaqh District Hospital for the Insane, p. 36. LINDSAY.—Thirty-third Annual Beport of the Perthshire Lunatic Asylum. Sidey—Perth, pp. 103. Alois.—The power of Individuals to prevent Melancholy in themselves. Churchill. A. Krauss.—The mind in insanity. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 10 c p. 221. ■" Baillaxger.—On the communicalility of Insanity. Edin. Med. J., May p. 1043, i860. ' Kirkbride, T.—A brief account of the Pennsylvania Hospital for the Insane, at Philadelphia, with a description of the new Buildinqs Americ. J. of Med. Sciences, April, i860, p. 305. 12