KBBOttT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AN1J PUBLIC HYGIENE. In relation to this condition he divides cases according to the mode and degree in which it manifests itself. In some cases a morbid tone of mind (Stimmung) exhibits itself in depression, sorrowfulness, and taedium vita:, which are indications of disease of the sympathetic nerve, and of consequent abnormal conditions of the organs to which it is distributed. The extrinsic causes of suicide are, for the most part, the following the mental feebleness which characterises our over-refined and sensitive age, the increase of bodily diseases which are dependent on deficient hrematosis, and the form assumed by the political and social relations of the day. The author considers that the only way to diminish the fre- quency of suicide is to teach mankind how to counteract those injurious agencies, intrinsic to his nature, which result in mental and corporeal feebleness. Willeks-Jessen.— The main Questions of Medico-legal Psychology Casper's Handbook, Biological Part, Berlin, 1858. Deut. Klinik, 1859, N°8, 7, 9, 11, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21. Canst., vol. vii, p. 26. An unfavorable criticism of the doctrine of Casper, relating to the question of criminal responsibility. Jessen is of opinion that, in medico- legal investigations involving this question, the practical issue of the liability of the agent to the imputation of criminal motive ought to be the primary object of inquiry, and that it is in the end more conducive to the purpose in view to lay the foundation in a thorough investigation of the psychical state of the subject. For this purpose he considers it to be of the utmost importance to recognise and discriminate the several forms under which mental derangements manifest themselves, especially those which lie on the borders of somatic disease on the one hand, or of a healthy condition on the other. And he considers that no more satis- factory proof can be obtained of the existence of a mental disease than that which arises from the demonstration that it belongs to an already recognised nosological form. Roller. — On Mental Derangements, in their relation to the administra- tion of Criminal Justice. (Official Report of the Tbirty-fourth Congress of German Naturalists and Physicians at Carlsruhe, Sept., 1858. Edited by the Secretaries, Eisenlohr and Volz. With live plates and sixteen woodcuts). Karlsruhe, 1859. pp. 22. Canst., vol. vii, p. 26. Roller's report relates especially to those mental derangements which are difficult to recognise—e.g. those in which the manifestations of disease are limited to busy restlessness, wilful mischievousness, and unceasing quarrelsomeness, or in which the abnormality lies not in the nature of the conceptions, hut in the coercive influence which they exercise on the mental life ; to which may he added the so-called associated mental de- rangements (such as those which accompany epilepsy or other somatic diseases). The author defines the province of a medical witness very differently from the writer last referred to. He holds it to be his business to lay down whether or not, and in what manner, free mental action, inherent in man, is disturbed or suspended, referring for this purpose, only in the second place, to the actual forms of mental disease. He advocates the importance of placing the treatment of mental disease more