REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 904 of the brain and its membranes, and metastatic processes in other organs, BlJHL.—On Dilatation of the Pulmonic Capillaries. Virch. Arcliiv. xvi Vol. 1859, p. 559. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 252. In the case of a female dying with mitral disoase, Buhl found the lungs in a state of brown pigment-induration. All the capillaries were varicose, or formed loops or tortuosities, and club-like processes. Virchow has seen 3 similar cases. MASCHKA.—On Ecchgmoses on Internal Organs. Prager Vierteljahrs- schrift, 2 Vol., 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 254. Maschka states that capillary laceration may be produced by (1) im- peded access of air to the lungs during inspiration, in consequence of which more blood rushes into the pulmonary plexuses; (2) violent concussions of the body; (3) local congestions, active or passive; (+) certain poisons, as prussic acid, chloroform. Jenner.—On Congestion of the Heart and its local Consequences. Mcd.- Chir. Trans., i860, p. 199. Jenner directs attention to the effect of congestion of the muscular structure of the heart in producing induration, toughening and thicken- ing of its walls, and to the influence which those tcxtural changes exert on the development of permanent dilatation of the heart. The induration is due to an interstitial exudation of lymph, which appears either in the form of granules, or more or less organized into fibrous tissue. The parietes of the heart thus altered are deficient in their normal contractile power (as shown further by then- being affected, more or less, by fatty degeneration) and, therefore, gradually yield to the distending force of the blood which congests the cavities, so that at length permanent and extreme dilatation is produced. Willebrand.—On the Action of Secale Cornutum. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 299. Willebrand ascribes the beneficial effect of secale cornutum to its influence on the arterial coats through the vasomotor nerves, and also believes that it has a local astringent action when directly applied. Uc has foimd it useful in dilatation of the heart, in neuralgia from the pressure of distended veins upon nerves, in chronic inflammation and swelling of the uterus, in chronic bronchitis and phthisis, in enlarged spleen, erysipelas, and various eye affections. Richardson.—On a Case of Cyanosis. Med. T. & Gaz., Dec. 22nd. Richardson's patient was a child, ajt. 5, cyanotic from birth, avcII nourished and plump, and with more than ordinary intellectual faculties. She died of tuberculosis, but the disease presented no febrile symptoms at any time. The heart's sounds and valves were healthy, the foramen ovale widely patent. The blood was of a venous colour in both veins and arteries, and remained fluid for several days, though exposed to the air.