PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF FOOD, ETC. 61 cranial nerve, and are, therefore, under the influence of the cerebro-spinal system ; while the longitudinal muscular fibres are supplied by filaments from the sympathetic. Hence it is that dilatation of the pupil follows diminished power of the third nerve, as in compression of the brain ; while contraction of the pupil occurs after section of the cervical sympa- thetic. The balance of power between the two sets of nerves may be destroyed in another way; thus, for example, contraction of the pupil may result from reflex excitement of the third nerve by the stimulus of strong light acting through the optic; while, on the other hand, dilatation of the pupil may arise from galvanic stimulation of the sympathetic in the neck. After these and some other preliminary remarks, the author passes on to say that the state of the pupil is a marked feature of the influence of opium on the one hand, and of belladonna on the other, the former causing contraction, the latter dilatation, of the pupil. The question now arises—by what process does opium contract, and belladonna dilate, the pupil? Does the contraction of the pupil in opium-poisoning depend upon an excitation of the third or a paralysis of the sympathetic nerve? Our author thinks that the influence of opium results, not from its stimulating the third, but from its depressing effect on the sympathetic, nerve. He cites a number of facts in support of this view, and then goes on to say that belladonna and its congeners dilate the pupil, not in consequence of depressing the third nerve, but of the stimulating influence they exert on the sympathetic nerve. So that opium may, on the one hand, be re- garded as the paralyser, belladonna, on the other hand, as the exciter, of the sympathetic nervous system. Heisch.—The Arsenic-Eaters of Styria. Ed. Med. Journ., June, p. 1137. Roscoe.—On the alleged Practice of Arsenic-Eating in Styria. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 17th, p. 494. Heisch says, if human testimony be worth anything, the fact of the existence of arsenic-eaters i3 placed beyond a doubt. The arsenic is taken pure in some warm liquid, as coffee, fasting, beginning with a bit the size of a pin's head, and increasing it to that of a pea. The complexion and general appearance are much improved, and the persons using arsenic seldom look as old as they really are. The first dose is always followed by slight symptoms of poisoning, such as burning pain in the stomach and sickness, but not very severe. Once begun, it can only be left off by very gradually diminishing the dose, as a sudden cessation causes symptoms of poisoning, which may be speedily followed by death. Arsenic-eaters, according to Heisch's authority, are long-lived, and peculiarly exempt from infectious diseases. Roscoe confirms Heisch's statements. Roscoe was supplied by Pro- fessor Pebal, of Lemberg, with a series of letters written by seventeen medical men in Styria to the Government Medical Inspector at Gratz concerning the alleged practice. All the letters acknowledge the general prevalence of a belief that certain persons are in the habit of taking arsenic in quantities usually supposed sufficient to produce death. Many of the medical men had no experience of the practice; others described certain