320 ItKPOHT ON SUROKHY. 4. Calculi in Females. HUNTER, John.—A Case of numerous Calculi in the Bladder 0/ a Female. Lancet, July 21st, p. 56. Mrs. S—, set. 55, had suil*erecl from urinary disease for five years. Under tonics, antacids, and '* nitary" injections, the symptoms improved, and tlie case was supposed to lie one of chronic cystitis. She subsequently voided a phosphatie stone 1 inch long and ^rd of an inch wide, aftt-r several hours' agony. A catheter having been introduced, the bladder seemed to he full of of stones, and several small ones were removed, the urethra having been previously dilated during twenty-four hours with tent of gentian root. One stone having resisted all attempts to withdraw or crush it, Hunter divided the urethra right and left, by two incisions towards the rami of the pubes. Not having sufficient room, he cut upon the stone projected into the vagina with a curved forceps, but was compelled to lay open the urethra into the vagina, after which he extracted a lithic-acid stone nearly as large as a hen's egg. The patient recovered, and could hold her water three hours. Canton.—Stone in the Bladder of a Girl aged Six Years; Extraction ; Recovery. Lancet, April 14th, p. 371. Stanley. —Lithotomy in a Girl aged Thirteen Years ; Removal of a Large Stone; Perfect Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., March 31st, P-3I5- Stanley divided the urethra upwards towards the pubes, for about half an inch, and then used Weiss's dilator till the finger could be passed into the bladder. The stone was nearly as large as a pigeon's egg. Atkinson, E.— Case of Lithotomy in a Female; Removal of a Large Stone; Rapid Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 25th, p. 181. By dilating the urethra and dividing it with a bistoury, towards the right and left, Atkinson removed a stone from the bladder of a Jewess, set. 54. The stone weighed nineteen drachms, and measured 4+ inches round its short, and 6 inches round its long, axis. VI.—Diseases of the Pkostate. Pitman, Dr.— Unsuspected Abscess of the Prostate Gland, in a Case of Gonorrhoea, with Febrile Symptoms; Fatal Result. Lancet, Oct. 27th, p. 408. A baker, set. 25, had had gonorrhoea for a fortnight, with pain in the loins. On admission into the hospital he had the aspect of a fever patient, and was unable to pass urine except by catheter. He became delirious, and sank nine days afterwards. A large abscess was discovered between the bladder and rectum, communicating with the prostatic urethra by two ragged holes, and the prostatic tissue was extensively de- stroyed by suppuration. EuiCHSEN.—Case of Death from Profuse Hematuria, consequent on an Abscess between the Prostate and Rectum. Med. Times and Gaz.. July 28, p. 79.