91 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. cumstances favouring a rise of the temperature, is more rapid still; the presence of sugar being, of course, assumed or allowed. It also showed the rapid destruction of sugar, under the influence of potassa and air, at tbc ordinary temperature. The third experiment exhibited the influence of a raised temperature aloue in destroying (hypothetical) sugar mixed with caustic potassa. He concludes, " that no experiment can be admitted as proving the absence of sugar from the liver, in which the contact of that organ with potash, air, and water, at the ordinary or any higher temperature, has not been avoided." Colin.—On the Production of Sugar in relation to the Re-absorption of Fat, and the Development of Heat during Fasting and Hybernation. Compt. Rend., Nov., i860, p. 684. The conclusions that the author has arrived at are— 1. That the re-absorption or combustion of fat, the production of sugar, and the supporting of the animal heat, are phenomena intimately con- nected, and mutually dependent on each other. 2. Abstinence cannot be long supported by lean animals ; their tempe- rature falls very rapidly, and the sugar disappears from the liver, the blood, the lymph, and the other fluids which are normally saccharine. 3. In fat or well-conditioned individuals subjected to fasting, all other conditions being equal, the duration of life is in exact proportion to the quantity of fat stored up in the tissues; so long as the animal has fat, life continues, the production of sugar goes on, and the temperature is not notably diminished. 4. During hybernation the production of sugar is in direct proportion to the re-absorption of fat. 5. In all animals deprived of food the liver undergoes a remarkable change, the cells lose their fat, and the organ becomes atrophied. BILE. P. Hoppe.—Upon the Polarizing Properties of Bile-substances, and their Products of Decomposition. Virch. Archiv, vol. xv, p. 126. Canst., vol. i, p. 235. Dr. Tuudichuii.—On the Colouring Matter of the Bile. Meetiu" of Brit. Assoc., Oxford. Lancet, 7th July. H. Nasse.—On the Transformation of Starch by Bile. Archiv fur "-em. Arb., vol. iv, part 3. Canst., vol. i, p. 197. Schmidt, vol.\o<, P- H5- Ed. Schaefer.-- An Analysis of the Bile of a Criminal. Wien. Aerztl. ^ Zeits., vol. xlv, p. Jn, Canst., vol. i, p. 235. There-being as yet nothing known regarding'the existence of elyco- chohc acid m human bile, Schaefer availed himself of the opportunity of analysing the bile of a criminal immediately after execution ; and found in this specimen of bile, glycin, as well as choloidinic and glycocholic