REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 228 In a paper on polypi of the oesophagus, Middeldorpf enumerates dysphagia, emaciation, oesophageal inflammation, nausea, vomiting, and occasional rising of the polypus into the throat as the chief signs. He reviews the various modes of treatment, and gives the preference to direct removal hy excision combined with ligature to prevent haemor- rhage. He advises removal to be performed by the galvanic cautery. (Esophagotomy he thinks too dangerous. Gauster.—A Contribution to the Statistics of Diarrhoea, with remarks on its import in Sanitary Police. Wicn Ztschr., N. F. ii, 35, 36, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 181. Gauster details his experience of epidemic diarrhoea prevailing at Stein, in Carniola, in 1856 and 1856. The deaths were 48 out of 371 cases, and more than one-tenth of the whole population was attacked. Of the adults, males and females were affected in about equal proportions. More than seven times as many children were attacked as adults. The greatest number of deaths occurred in children under 1 year of age, the number dying between 1st and 5th years was double of that for the next decade. The disease lasted 3—4, even 10 weeks. In numerous cases it supervened on pertussis and measles, or on simple intestinal catarrh. In the commencement of the whooping cough, and generally in the first week after the onset of the measles, the diarrhoea broke out. Cases of the latter kind were more favourable and terminated sooner than when the disease was not preceded by measles. Roser.—Remarks on Dysentery, especially respecting its paralytic form. Wurtemb. Corr., Bl. 30, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 183. Roser describes a form of dysentery attended not unfrequently with paralysis. Nothing is said of the state of the great nervous centres, but he is inclined to attribute the paralysis, which does not seem to have been complete, to the contact of the inflamed transverse colon with the solar plexus lying behind it. This part of the intestine was found drawn backwards and covered by the lower border of the stomach, and the inflammation especially concentrated upon it. If the ascending and descending colon were equally affected with the trans- verse, and if the latter was not displaced, paralytic phenomena were not observed. The author praises a calomel treatment, but seems to have trusted a good deal to an expectant. Roux.—Complete obstruction of the Intestine co-existing with an Inguinal Hernia. Gaz. des Hopit. 32, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 330. Roux relates a fatal case of intestinal obstruction, the ccecum, ascending, and transverse colon being greatly distended, but no kind of stricture, or disease of the intestinal coat existing, as proved by the autopsy. Durr.—Ileus from Intestinal Obstruction resulting from Old Adhesions. Wurtemb, Corr., Bl. 35, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 333. In Diirr's case fatal ileus appears to have been occasioned by matting together of the intestines by old adhesions, aided by a constricting