- il R REPORT ON SPECIAL THERAPEUTICS. Gymnastic Exercises as a means of Cure. Canst. Jahrb., vol. v p. 187.—Contains reports of the value of passive movements in chronic disease of the joints, of shampooing and friction in sprains, of Swedish gymnastics in a case of complete palsy of the lower extremities, a pretty full account of the aetiology and treatment of habitual scoliosis bv Eulenberg (Vuch. Arch., 1859, Bd. xvii, Heft. 3, 4), and a notice of Neumann's attempt to apply forced inspiratory efforts to the treatment of acute and chronic disease. Chronic Bronchitis. (Pharmaceutical Journ., Feb., i860.)—Williams recommends the following pills :—9= Ammoniaci, gr. ij; Pulv. Ipecac, gr. h ; Morph. Mur., gr. £; Ammon. Carb., gr. ij ; Muc. Acac, q. b. M. et ft. pil. (to be varnished with Balsam of Tolu dissolved in chlo- roform) . SURGERY. Aneurism.—Syme, in axillary aneurism, prefers deligation of the affected vessel immediately above and below the sac, to ligature of the subclavian artery above the clavicle. Wounds.—The permanent submersion of wounds underwater, at 320 to 340 Reaumur, moderates the first inflammatory reaction, and is said to prevent pyaemia. Zeis has employed it with advantage in old ulcers of the leg, surrounded with greatly thickened integument. Szymanowski fashions his receptacles out of sheet india rubber, and joins the freshly cut edges by pressure after touching them with petroleum. Cicatrization.—Demarquay and Leconte have experimentally shown that carbonic acid hastens the process of cicatrization. Croup.—Trousseau says that tracheotomy is most successful where little medicine has been previously given. He lays great stress on per- forming the operation slowly, cutting the tissues layer by layer, and not opening the trachea till it has heen thoroughly exposed. Evans advocates the performance of the operation at an earlier stage of the disease than has hitherto been customary in England. Sloughing Wounds.—A dressing of coal-tar and plaster of Paris has been recommended by French surgeons in sloughing wounds; it deodorizes the discharge, and is said to favour cicatrization. Epithelioma.—Early and free excision gives much more favorable re- sults than in genuine carcinoma. Foreign Bodies.—Anselmier has detected with a magnetic needle small portions of iron buried in the tissues. Fractures.—Fractures which have united with much deformity may sometimes be advantageously broken again and reset in a better position. Plaster-of-Paris and dextrine bandages are coming into more general use. (Edema Glottidis.—Sloane reports the successful treatment of oedema of the glottis from scalds, with calomel and tartar emetic, given at short intervals.