ItEPOHT O.N THE INSTITUTES 01'' MEDICINE. 52 A. Chauveau.—Theory of the Physiological Effects produced by Elec- tricity on the Animal Organism, both in the form of the Instantaneous and of the Continued Current. Journ. de la Pliys., April and July, i860, pp. 274, 458, and 15.34. Chauveau's memoir, which extends over nearly eighty pages, is of an entirely original character, and places the theory of animal electricity on a new hasis. To attempt, however, giving an abstract would be futile, as, without the woodcuts with which the paper is profusely illustrated, no intelligible notion of the author's views can be given. J. Rosenthal.—On the so-called Vallian Law. Allg. Med. Centralztg., No. 16, p. 126. Canst., vol. i, p. 101. The author concludes, from his investigations, that instantly after death irritability increases considerably throughout the nerve, whether the nerve be connected with the cord or not, and that afterwards the irritability gradually diminishes, until, at length, it entirely disappears. The rise and fall take place with some slight differences at different parts of the nerve ; but the period within which they occur becomes regularly shorter as the muscle is receded from. Division of the nerve materially accelerates the phenomena. J. Rosenthal.—On the Specific Energies of the Nerves. Berlin, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 91. The writer defends the theory of the specific energies of the nerves of sense, and relates an experiment to prove the existence of subjective sensa- tion of taste from galvanic excitation without the interference of electrolytic action. He conducted the current from a Daniel's battery through zinc electrodes into vessels filled with a solution of sulphate of zinc, one of which was connected, by means of a pipe containing fluid, with a solution of common salt, into which the observer's hand was plunged. The other was similarly connected with a glass of distilled water, out of which a bundle of filter paper projected. The tongue, applied to the paper, was sensible of an acid taste when the stream entered, and a feebly alkaline taste as it issued from the paper. Blue test-paper suffered no change. A. V. Bezold.—Contributions to the Physiology of Electrotone. Pre- liminary Communication. Allg. med. Centralztg., 1S59, p. 25. Canst., vol. i, p. 100. With the aid of the myographion, it was ascertained that, if the sciatic nerve of the frog be traversed by an ascending or descending continuous electric current, and the portion of the nerve either above or below the poles of the battery be irritated by an " interruptive shock," a longer period elapses ere the gastrocnemius contracts than when the nerve is not polarized. When the constant current has been some time in operation, the duration of the contraction is also increased. Both of the effects now described increase with the duration and intensity of the polarizing current, and with the extent of nerve through which it passes. These facts show that the electrotonic state of the nerve retards the transmission of stimuli through it. E. Pfluger.—Researches on the Physiology of Electrotone. Berlin, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 97. In this work the author gives a detailed accouut of his researches into