BELLY. 309 peritoneum was coated with a thin layer of scar-tissue, and the mucous membrane was absent, but the margins of the gap were cicatrized. In the scar-tissue there was a perforation, of the size of a pea, which had cicatrized and was covered with a fibrinous coagulum. At this spot a hard, porous, earthy disc was found, at a right angle to the axis of the bowel, touching the walls of the latter at every point of its circum- ference, and evidently the cause of the mischief. The swelling below Poupart's ligament was the thickened sac of a crural hernia, -which no longer communicated with the belly ; it contained about half an ounce of yellowish serum. Legendre.—A Memoir on some Rare Varieties of Crural Hernia. Paris, 1858. Bailliere et Fils. The author, a prosector in the Ecole Anatomique des Hopitaux, made use of the subjects which he received for dissection for the purpose of an inquiry into the frequency of crural hernia. In 6044 adult bodies he found thirty-seven crural hernise, of which thirty were in females and seven in males ; in a single instance double crural hernia was present. Legendre describes four varieties of this form of rupture. Manec.—A Case of Crural Hernia of the Right Side, of several Years' Standing, and Incompletely Reducible ; Strangidation ; Taxis Suc- cessful. Three dags afterwards, whilst stretching in bed, Strangu- lation a Second Time, necessitating Herniotomy; Perforation of the Bowel; Death. Gaz. des Hop., 107, 1859. Schmidt, No. 8, vol. 107, p. 227. Jobertde Lamballe (Allg.Wien.med. Ztg., 48, 1859, ^.5 22^) operated on a woman, 60 years old, for a large crural hernia, on the fourth day of strangulation. The sac contained some dark-coloured omentum, which felt cool, and a large loop of gut. He replaced the gut after dividing Gimbernat's ligament ; but the omentum, which he left in the sac, became gangrenous, and was thrown off. He remarks that cold omentum ought not to be returned, because it mortifies and is separated. Ciiassaignac.—Abeille Med. and Presse He'd., 41, 1859. Schmidt, No. 8, vol. 107, p. 228. A case of omental hernia, which became inflamed, and required operation. Rapf.—Hernia of the Obturator Foramen. Thesis, Strasbourg, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p 182. Wagner.—Hernia of the Foramen Ovale, on both sides. Wunderlich's Archiv, Heft 1. Canst., vol. iv, p. 182. VI.—Rectum. Malformations and Diseases. Curling.—Case of Imperforate Anus in an Infant; Operation ; Re- covery. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 78, July 28th. Curling.—Inquiry into the Treatment of Congenital Malformations of the Rectum by Operation, founded on an Analysis of 100 Cases, nine of which occurred in the practice of the Author. Med.-Chir. Trans., p. 271.