405 DISEASES OF THE FCETUS, ETC. Spencer Wells.—Specimen of Spurious Hermaphroditism. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 158. This specimen, the property of the late Mr. Pilcher, having heen alluded to as the only known instance of true hermaphroditism, Mr. Spencer Wells proposed that a committee should be appointed to examine it anew. The committee (Dr. Wilks and Messrs. Curling and Wells) reported that the specimen exhibited some of the peculiarities of both sexes. The uterus and one ovary were present, showing clearly its feminine character. The bladder, prostate, and prolonged urethra, caused a strong resemblance to the male. The case was one of imperfect female development; the individual had passed through life as a female. Arthur E. Durham.—On Hermaphroditism. Guy's Hosp. Rep., i860. Seven cases are here related and reported on, in some of which the sex of the individual had been doubtful during life. The minute anatomy of the sexual organs, as revealed by dissection, are described, and some general conclusions are drawn on the subject of the morphology of the organs of generation iu the two sexes. Dr. John W. Ogle. — Malformation (by Excess) of the Peritoneum. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 107. Ed. Canton. — Fleshy Caudal Prolongation in an Infant. Lancet, Oct. 27th, i860, p. 411. Arthur E. Durham.—Peculiarities of the Genital Organs, and Extra- ordinary Development of the Mammae in a Male Subject. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 163. DEVIATIONS IN THE VASCULAR AND RESPIRATORY SYSTEMS ; DISEASES. Dr. Peacock. — Malformation of the Heart; Absence of Ductus Arte- riosus ; Small Size of the Pulmonary Artery; Aorta arising from both Ventricles; Irregular Course of the Aorta, fyc. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 40. The child was noticed to be unusually livid when three weeks old, and at the age of seven to eight months began to have suffocative attacks and convulsions. When it was excited, a loud systolic murmur was audible over the front of the chest. Death occurred from exhaustion following vomiting and diarrhoea at the age of eleven months. The defect originated, as the author supposes, in the imperfect development of the bronchial arches which usually go to the formation of the left aorta and ductus arteriosus; thus the pulmonary artery, receiving only the blood transmitted to the lungs during foetal life, remained permanently small. The right aorta was developed instead of the left. Dr. Peacock.—Case of Cyanosis, with Clinical Remarks. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 25th, i860, p. 186. Dr. Peacock.—Largely open Foramen Ovale, without Cyanosis. Trans Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 68. Dr. Wilks.—Communication between the Pulmonary Artery and Aorta Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 57.