SECRETORY SYSTEM. 239 Basham.—On the curability of Renal Drops?/. Lancet, Jan. 28th. Basham details, in a clinical lecture, a case of acute renal congestion, attended with considerable dropsy which yielded to dry cupping, warm baths, and a diaphoretic mixture containing tr. digitalis. The patient afterwards took Tr. Ferri Muriat. and recovered his health completely, the urine, however, still presenting traces of albumen. Case of bronzed skin disease with destruction of the supra renal cap- sules, recorded by Mr. Leeming-. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 28th. Pfaffer.—The Therapeutical use of Bromide of Potassium. L'Union 102, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 172. Pfaffer confirms the observations of Thielmann relative to the thera- peutic action of bromide of potassium. He found it to exert a manifest sedative action upon the urinary and g'enital organs. Breithaupt and Trost.—Cases of acute Atrophy of the Liver. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 185. Pr. Ver. Ztg. N. P. ii, 39 and 40, 1859. Spitals. Ztg. 18, 1859. Breithaupt and Trost's case was observed at Coblentz; the subject was a muscular soldier. There is nothing very particular in the histoiy of the illness. At the autopsy the brain was found soft and pale, there was an extravasated patch of the size of a groschen in the falx, and several small ones beneath the visceral pericardium. Extra- vasation had also occurred in the folds of the peritonium. Frost's case is related in more detail, the subject was a young female, who suffered with some degree of jaundice for three months before serious symptoms set in. The cerebral membranes contained much blood; the substance of the brain was swollen, soft, almost fluctuating-, full of serum, and moderately injected. The lateral ventricles were filled with pale red serum, and their fining membrane softened. The muscular fibres of the heart, and the tubuli of the kidneys, were in an advanced stage of fatty degeneration. The liver was notably shrunken, and in a state of fatty decay, its cells altered and breaking up. The portal blood, and the cystic bile contained leucin and tyrosin; in the former there was also an increase of the volatile and fixed acids. Hare.—On the diagnosis of Cancerous and some other Tumours of the Liver Lancet, March 3rd, 1859. Hare states that scirrho-enccplialoid is the most common form of cancerous tumour in the liver, especially occurring in disseminated masses. In very rare cases cancer is combined with cirrhosis The weight is usually much increased. The form is not much altered' The physical signs are described in detail. Monneret.—Remarks respecting a complex disease of the Spleen Archiv Gen. Nov. p. 513, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 307 Monneret relates a case in which a male, set. 67, after an illness of about nine months, died with a greatly enlarged spleen, all the other organs, except the &upra*fenal capsules, being sound. The spleen was hard, much congested, in some parts infiltrated with fibrine in others