REPORT ON l'UBLIC HEALTH. 18;> to a category of diseases, which the author proposes to divide for the purposes of arrangement of patients into external, internal, syphilitic, contagious, and obstetric. As regards drainage, he recommends stoneware pipes of from eight to ten inches, or mason work drains of eight inches wide, and twelve to fifteen inches high. As regards water-supply, he considers that fifteen cuhic feet per day per patient—the quantity supplied in theCharite Hospital—is necessary for the purpose of haths, ward-sinks, and water- closets. For the wards he strongly recommends "patent flooring, the deals of which are glued together, and spread over with linseed-oil varnish, mixed with a little yellow ochre" (Goldochre). On the matters of heating and ventilation the work contains nothing new. Oppert.—The Arrangement of Hospitals; Studies conducted in the course of a scientific journey. With nineteen illustrations in copper and wood. Berlin, 1859. This work treats only of some of the more important questions relating to the management of hospitals, and especially to those of ventilation. The author thinks that each ward ought to contain ahout thirty patients, each being supplied with 1200 cubic feet of air-space, a quantity which is, however, insufficient, unless means of ventilation are also in operation. Besides the large wards, he recommends that there should be small ones, containing two to seven patients. He declares in favour of the mechanical system of ventilation {ventilation « pulsion, or plenum ven- tilation), as superior in several respects to the aspiration system. The grounds of preference are—(1) that the quantity of air delivered can be modified according to the circumstances; (2) that the ventilation is not affected by season, and can be maintained in activity in summer as well as in winter, whereas in the method by aspiration the ventilation almost ceases in summer. The proper supply of air per hour per patient he estimates at forty cubic meters. Vernois.—Note on the new Warming and Ventilating Apparatus at the Hopital Necker. Ann. d'Hyg. Canst., vol. vii, p. 54. The male side of the Hopital Necker at Paris is ventilated on the plan most approved of by Pettenkofer, that of Dr. v. Hecke. A two-horse power steam-engine in the basement propels the air into three heating chambers, from which the wards and corridors are supplied. From the official report of Grassi it appears that the apparatus works economically, as compared with other methods, only 7*16 kilogr. of coal being re- quired to yield 17,600 cubic meters of air; so that, it is found that the warming and ventilation of the Necker Hospital costs no more than the heating alone in the other hospitals, and that it presents the additional advantage of providing sufficient hot water, not only for the wards, but for baths for the out-patients. Bohm.—On the Ventilation Question, with special relation to Hosjntals. Z. d. Gesellsch. d. A. z. Wien, pp. 18, 26, 28. Canst., vol. vii, p. 54. Bohm criticises in succession the three methods of veutilation—the so-called natural method, that by aspiration, absurdly called the vacuum system, and that by pulsion (plenum system). He points out the im- possibility, in many instances, of providing sufficiently for ventilation without the continuous employment of artificial means; and, from the