FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. 471 FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. Hoffbauer.—On the Causes of the recent remarkable prevalence of Suicide, and its prevention. (The Prize Essay of the German Society for the Promotion of Psychiatry and Legal Psychology.) Neuwied, 1859. Canst., vol. vii, p. 20. In this work the subject is discussed in detail, and is illustrated by instructive cases. It is divided into four sections, of which the first treats of the mental constitution of man, and its relations to himself and the outer world. In the second, suicide is discussed generally; it is defined as intentional and conscious annihilation of one's own life, without virtuous motive, and considered in regard to the multiplicity of the means of its accomplishment, the condition of the suicide before and during the act, the influence of hereditary tendency, of temperament, of age and sex, its epidemic prevalence, and its communicability (Ansteckungs fahigkeit). The third section relates to the causes of the increased frequency of suicide. As predisposing causes are specified—great natural calamities, the scarcity of provisions, the increasing extravagance in matters of religion, with the corresponding increase around it of infidelity; while poverty, misfortune, gambling, speculation and swindling, corruption of manners, political disturbances, drunkenness, disease, continued pain, &c, are to be con- sidered as the exciting causes. The author considers in the fourth sec- tion the means most effectual for the diminishing the frequency of suicide, some of the principal of which are—the improvement of popular educa- tion, the removal of restrictions on labour, free trade in the necessaries of life, the promotion of benefit societies, savings banks and life assu- rance, the prevention of mendicancy and over-population, the retrench- ment of unnecessary expenditure and of the abuse of spirituous liquors, the abolition of gambling, the amendment of manners, and the promotion of true religion. Magg.—An Answer to the Prize Question proposed by the Society for the Promotion of Psychiatry, fyc, of Vienna, for the year 1857. Deut. Zeit., Neue Folge, vol. xiii, part a. MUller (Otto). — Suicide, a Psychiatrical Sketch. Harburg, 1859. Canst., vol. vii, p. 20. Dr. MUller looks at suicide entirely from the side of mental disease. In relation to its intrinsic and extrinsic causes, he divides cases of suicide into four main groups. The first includes suicide in which the act results from the existence of false notions in the mind, and life is sacrificed to a delusion, the reality of which is such that it annihilates all hope and desire. To the second belong suicides from melancholy, characterised by the existence of morbid sensations, particularly precordial pain. This kind of suicide is often consummated early, at that period of the case at which the patient first ceases to be conscious of his disease as such, and begins to regard his sensations as real. The third and fourth group include suicidal acts which cannot be attributed to any actual mental disease, and must therefore be regarded as prepense acts ; but even in these the author maintains the existence of a perversion of mind on the part of the suicide, by whatever other causes the act may be induced.