233 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. tube into the serous cavity. The last is the rarest, the first the most frequent. Habershon — On the Etiology and Treatment of Peritonitis. Med.-Chir. Trans., i860, p. 5. .... Habershon gives the following summary: (1) That peritonitis is never idiopathic in its origin, and that we do not find any such instance as acute disease of the peritoneum coming on from mere exposure to cold. In such supposed cases the cold merely tends to render acute an already existing morbid state. (2) That the consideration of the origin of the disease, either in a local or general source, is the best guide to treatment. (3) That where the disease results from perforation, injuries, &c, abstinence from food, and opium, with warmth, local depletions, &c, are the best remedies. (4) That where peritonitis is a symptom of blood-change, as in albuminuria and pyaemia, it may be best relieved by the treatment of the primary disease, but that here opium is sometimes of great value, and more effective without than with mercury. (5) That in cases of strumous, cancerous, or hepatic disease, the consideration of the cause is our best guide, and that, while in cases of the latter land mercurials are sometimes of great service, salivation is unnecessary. (6) That in general the benefit ascribed to mercury in the treatment of peritonitis is not established, and perhaps is really due to the opium given with it. Handfield Jones.—Tabular Statement of 72 Cases of Hamatemesis, with Remarks. Med.-Chir. Trans., i860, p. 353. The possibility of pretty copious gastric haemorrhage analogous to epistaxis, the slight amount of dyspepsia in many cases, and the great benefit of a steady tonic treatment in positive ulceration are the points insisted on. Peedvache.—On Epidemic Dysentery and its Treatment. Gaz. de Paris, 15, 16, 18, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 317. In 5 epidemics observed by Piedvache, the disease always had a different starting-point, without any discoverable determining local influences. The mortality is very high, amounting to \ to \ of all those attacked. From to -^V of the whole population of a district have been carried off. The disease most resembles tropical dysentery. Emetics, purgatives, and astringent enemata constitute the best treat- ment. Whittingham.—On Tropical Dysentery. Americ. Q. J. of Med. Sc., Oct., i860. Whittingham makes 5 varieties of dysentery; (1) dysentery de- pending upon indigesta and feces retained in the bowels, to be treated by ol. ricini and copious oily enemata. (2) Simple specific dysentery, common or bilious, to be treated by 5ss. doses of ipecacuanha with enemata of the same and morphia for 3 or 4 days, or by Ipecac, gr. x. + Opii. gr. i., 6tis. horis, with the above enema. Subsequently the pomegranate bark in decoction. (3) Dysentery complicated with ente- ritis, to be treated by warm bath and 3 doses of calomel and opium,