373 SPECIAL DISEASES. the interior of the cyst and the cavity of the peritoneum, the establishing a fistulous communication between the interior of the cyst and a mucous or cutaneous surface, the injection of ovarian cysts with iodine, and ovariotomy. In forty or fifty cases treated by injection, a fatal result occurred once only. The application of galvanism is considered useless, and in some cases dangerous. A comparison is instituted between the mortality from ovariotomy and from other surgical operations (p. 208), and the objections to the operation are considered. The operation of ovariotomy and the best method of performing it are next discussed. Philip Harper.—Ovariotomy; Successful. Brit. Med. Journ., May 26th, i860, p. 394. The patient's age was thirty-two. Injection with iodine had been tried without effect, and it was evident that there were several cysts present. Ovariotomy was performed, and a tumour consisting of several cysts, of various sizes, removed. The case did well. Spencer "Wells. — Twelve Ovarian Cysts and Tumours removed by Ovariotomy. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 169. Spencer Wells.— Multilocidar Ovarian Cyst; Ovariotomy; Cure. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 25th, i860, p. 189. Spencer Wells.—Case of Ovariotomy ; Death from Intestinal Obstruc- tion. Med. Times and Gaz., March 10th, i860, p. 235. The case was fatal forty-six hours after operation, from obstruction of the bowels. A portion of the small intestine had become strangulated by pressure from the peduncle. Spencer "Wells.—Four cases of Ovariotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., August 25th, i860, p. 178. Of the four cases of ovariotomy here treated three recovered, one died. The author attributes his success to the simple after-treatment adopted. Opium is to be given to relieve pain, but only by the rectum. Spencer "Wells.—Case of Ovariotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 1st, 1860, p. 531. The patient set. 53. The tumour removed was composed of one large cyst, capable of containing from forty to fifty pints of fluid, and a number of groups of smaller cysts. The recovery was perfect. This was the twentieth case of this operator. His results are, of twelve hospital cases, eight recoveries and four deaths ; of eight cases in private prac- tice, five recoveries and three deaths. Dr. Tanner.—Larye Colloid Tumour of the Ovary. Rep. of Obst. Soc. of Lond., Lancet, Dec. 15th, i860, p. 585. In this case ovariotomy was successfully performed. Rc-EMEit. — Ovarian Dropsy; Ovariotomy. Am. Med. Journ., April, i860, p. 567. .35t. 38. Tumour weighed 25 lbs. Recovery.