REPORT OX THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 7G some pass to the blood-vessels nnd to the surface of the lungs; some apparently are lost in the pulmonary tissue. 15. The air-sacs exist fully developed in tlie foetal lung before birth. In tlie 'British Medical Journal' of the 24th November, p. 911, will be found an article by the same author, entitled "Observations on the Morbid Anatomy, Pathology, and Determining Cause of Emphysema of the Lungs," in which he gives woodcuts of the terminal bronchial tubes and air-sacs of healthy human lung. Prof. Jac. Moleschott.—The Muscular Fibres of the Air-vesicles of the Lungs. Wien. Med.Wchnschr., No.52,1859. Schmidt, vol. io6,p.28i.| Since 1845, when Moleschott first published his discovery of muscular fibres in the walls of the air-vesicles, several observers have investigated the subject; and while some have confirmed, others have denied, the correctness of his observations. The author has therefore repeated his examination, and by treating the lung with acetic acid somewhat in the way described at p. 27, has been able to satisfy himself of their existence in the lung of the pig, ox, and man. The muscular fibres are most numerous in the lungs of the pig, least numerous in those of man ; the reverse is the case with the elastic fibrous tissue. Dr. James Newton Heale.—On the Physiological Anatomy of the Lungs. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 41, p. 645. The arrangement observed, says our author, in the divisions and sub- divisions of the bronchial tubes in the human lung, is that of a panicle. There is everywhere throughout the lung to be distinguished a straight, diminishing tube, from which lesser tubes are alternately given off; the, lesser tubes, in their turn, observe a similar plan of distribution, and even the smallest tubes, down to their ultimate terminations, are governed by the same system. There is nowhere to be found a true dichotomous or trichotomous division. The distinction between bronchial tube andJ parenchyma is marked and very decisive in an injected fragment, however small, when examined with the microscope. "When the bronchial tubes have reached their penultimate terminations, the coats which form their perimeters split into two layers. The outer, which is tougher, thicker, aud more fibrous, expands and encloses an ultimate portion of the paren- chyma. To these portions of the lung the author gives the name of " leaflets." The outer coat of the bronchial tube, by being spread out in the leaflets, becomes continuous with the general parenchyma of the lungs. The inner portion of the tube immediately divides into numerous minute tubes—" pedicels." Each pedicel goes to a different leaflet, but each leaflet receives several pedicels. A minute anastomosis is thereby established between the terminations of the different bronchial tubes. The interior of all the bronchial tubes is marked with "rugae," which show the direction of the bundles of longitudinal contractile fibres. The longitudinal are surrounded by circular fibres, and by the contraction of the latter the rugae are formed. ,...11 The author says that there are no such things as "alveoli belonging to the tube. The bronchial artery supplies the following structures : 1. The cellular tissue, lymphatic glands, the coats of pulmonary vessels, neurilemma, &c.