73 OX THE ORGANS OF SENSE. of the right eye, slight divergence of that eye -was discovered. If the left eye was fixed on a distant candle, and a prism placed before it with the base directed outwards, the left eye rolled inwards, while the right one deviated outwards, and then returned to its former position; convergence thus occurred as in binocular vision, although the right eye perceived no image. The supposition that at first an excentric spot of the right eye produced an image, and that the effort to obviate the double image provoked the inward movement, was confirmed by interposing the prism with the base outwards before the diseased eye, which then moved inwards. Thus, whereas normally the combination of identical points of the retinae pro- duces single vision, it was here attained by the conjunction of non- identical sensitive and insensitive spots. It is true that the patient was unconscious of a double image when the prism was placed before the dis- eased eye in the last experiment. Yet, when he gazed at a flame, and the sound eye was then covered, the flame was lost sight of, to reappear at once on replacement of the prism as before. HEARING. Bonn afont.—Memoir on the Anatomy and Physiology of the Ossicnla Auditus and Membrana Tympani. Paris, 1859, 8vo. Prof. H. Helmholtz.—On the Physical Cause of Concord and Discord. Amtl. Ber. der 34. Vers, der deutschen Naturf., i8tg, p. 1 <y. Canst., vol. i, p. 88. The author regards concord as a continuous, and discord as an inter- mittent, sensation of tone. A musical tone corresponds to an aerial movement, in which the compression or velocity of the air at a particular spot may be represented by a La Grange's series^Aj sin (2 -n n t + Cx) + A2siu (4 7T n t + C2) 4- A3 sin (6 ir n t + C3) . . . . where n = number of vibrations, t = the time, n . A n . C = constants]. Helmholtz offers the hypothesis that the elastic appendages of each ter- mination of an auditory nerve-fibre are destined for a determinate tone, a theory which would explain how the individual tones of a concord are recognised. TASTING. A. Drielsma.—Inquiry into the Seat of the Sense of Taste. Groningen, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 89. In this dissertation the author gives an account of the opinions which have been entertained on this subject, and then describes a series of careful observations made on six persons with solutions of tartaric acid, common salt, sugar and sulphate of quinine. It hence results that] in perfection of special sensibility, the different regions rank in the 1 following order—1st, the root of the tongue; 2d, soft palate and uvula • 3d, superior margin of the tongue ; 4th, tip of its inferior surface; <th, inferior surface generally; 6th, tip of the superior surface; 7th,'hard 1 palate and middle of superior surface of tongue. The gums and inner I surface of the lips do not possess the sense of taste. Klaatscii and A. Sticii.—On Feeling in the Mouth, with Particular Reference to Taste. Virchow's Arch., vol. xvii, p. 80. Canst vol 1, p. 90. * The apex of the tongue possesses the greatest delicacy of touch ; the