352 ItKPORT ON IRDWXFBBY; ETC. I. BaKEB BboWN.—Case of Ruptured Perinccum, and Birth of the Child between the Os Vagina and Anus. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. jn7 linker Brown relates a case in which, the birth of the child bein* delayed by non-dilatation of the ostium vagina;, the perinaeum gave wav° Rad the child passed completely through the artificial opening. Miscellaneous. Prof. FAYE.—Contributions to Obstetric Pathology. Norsk Mag i8<-q p. 655. Schmidt, vol. io(5, p. 192. ' JJ' Leopold and C red!—Prolapsus of the Membranes of the Ovum filed with Amnionic Fluid. Mod. f. Geb., 1859, vol. xiii, pp. 139 and 141. Death from Bursting of Varices of the Vagina during Labour. Berlin Zeitung, 23, 1859. Med. Times and Gaz., March 24, 1860, p. 299. Heniiy Johnston.—Singular Case oj Inversion of the Urinary Bladder ^ during Pregnancy. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., April 10, i860, p. 120. The patient, set. 20, pregnant about four months, suffered from severe tenesmus, vomiting, and pain. A tumour, soft, the size of a pear, pro- jected downwards, and was at first taken to be the bag of membranes. Finally, it was made out to be the bladder inverted through the meatus urinarius. It was reduced, and the case did well. OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. Induction of Premature Labour. Cohen.—Cases of Artificial Premature Labour. Mon. f. Geb., Sept., 1859. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 189. The following questions are raised in connexion with the reporting of these cases by Cohen:—1, Whether it is preferable to induce pre- mature labour by means of the introduction of the sound, or by intra- uterine injection; 2, whether, in placenta prsevia centralis, there is likely to be less haemorrhage after the production of premature labour, and in a predetermined manner, at the seventh month, than when it is performed in consequence of a momentary necessity; 3, what method is preferable when the use of cutting instruments has been necessary to effect a previous delivery, and there remain considerable cicatrices of the cervix and vagina. In one case related, the use of the sound produced no result, whereas the intra-uterine injection was effectual in inducing labour after a short interval. In answer to the second question, a case is related in which the haemorrhage in connection with early production of artificial labour in placenta prsevia centralis was very trifling; and the deduction is, that in all cases when haemorrhage from placenta prsevia threatens to prove serious, premature labour should be induced artificially. Other conclusions drawn by the author are ; that when the portio vaginalis is very high, the tube to he used for the injection must be eight or nine inches long; and that, where cicatrices are present, the tampon is to be used to induce labour, in preference to other methods. The vagina is to be first dilated, and the dilatation carried gradually upwards. Pehrin.—Case of Induction of Premature Labour. L'Union, 1859, No. 146.