DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 227 loaded with albumen 18 hours after the disease first showed itself. Dr. Wade's opinion he refutes by narrating a case of severe diphtheria in which the urine was analysed for urea and chlorides during the acme of the disease and during the period of convalescence. The whole quantity of urine for 24 hours was collected. The results were, that at the •acme of the disease, when the urine was intensely albuminous, when there was complete anorexia, and the ingesta were reduced to a minimum, the quantity of urea excreted in a period of 24 hours was about twice as great as that excreted during a similar period when convalescence was established, and he was eating with appetite the ordinary diet of the hospital with extras. The amount of chlorides was also nearly doubled. It is evident from this that the albuminuria by no means involves a state of uraemia. Leudet.—Pathological and Clinical Researches regarding Ulceration and Perforation of the Appendix Vermiformis. Archiv. Gen., Aug., Sept. 1859. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., i860. Professor Leudet has met with 18 cases of ulceration of the mucous lining of the appendix vermiformis, and is of opinion that phthisis is its most frequent cause. Phthisis existed also in 6 out of 13 cases of perforation which he observed. He has not yet met with a case in which typhoid fever caused perforation. Rilliet.—On Dilatation of the Stomach. Gaz. Hebdomad., Nos. 17, 18, 20, 1859. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 21st, i860. Rilliet details 2 cases of dilatation of the stomach which have come under his observation. In one there was an ulcer at the level of the pylorus, in the other there was a stricture probably from the cicatriza- tion of an ulcer. He states, however, that it is by no means essential for dilatation of the stomach to be associated with narrowing of the pylorus. The characteristic symptoms are vomitings, more or less copious, occurring at intervals of 2—15 days, and the condition of the abdomen, as ascertained by physical examination, before and after the attacks of vomiting. Painful and excessively acid eructations and regurgitations are also observed. The course of the disease is chronic. Cure is possible if there be not organic disease. The treatment consists in careful regulation of the diet, only small quantities of easily digesti- ble substances being taken at one time; in the administration of suitable stimulants and peptic remedies; and in the use of electricity and compressive bandages to the abdomen. Nei.aton.— On Syphilitic St?-icture of the Rectum. Allg. Wiener Med. Ztg., 24, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 51. Nelaton remarks as the peculiarities of syphilitic stricture of the rectum, that it is situated i£—2 inches from the anus, that its form is that of a double funnel, that there is a sero-purulent discharge from the anus occasioned by ulcerations of the mucous surface; that the fasces are apt to be liquid, and discharged without notable difficulty, and that complications with fistulas and condylomata are frequent. Middei.dokpf.— On Polypi of the Oesophagus. Dublin Q. J. of Med. So Feb., i860.