REPORT ON SURGERY. •274 Craven, R. M.—Traumatic Aneurism of the Radial Artery, successfully treated by Compression and Flexion, and afterwards by Extension. Brit. Med. Jour., Nov. 3, p. 8^9. The treatment lasted fourteen weeks. 2. Aneurisms. Aneurism.—-Report on the Treatment of External Aneurism. Med. Times nnd Gnz., January. Pembukton, Oliver.— On the Treatment of Aneurism from Anastomosis by Excision. Lancet, May 26, p. 576. Syme.— On the Treatment of Axillary Aneurism. Lancet, May 5, p. 444, and Med. Times and Gaz., May 5, p. 437, and Med.-Chir. Tr. A paper read before the Medical and Chirurgical Society, in which the author advocated the treatment of axillary aneurism, in particular, by de- ligation of the affected artery, immediately above and below the sac, which should be afterwards opened and emptied. This he considered preferable to the Hunterian operation, and thought it might perhaps be extended with advantage to the treatment of other aneurisms. His arguments were mainly drawn from a case of false axillary aneurism, following com- plete laceration of the vessel, where he adopted this plan with success. Paget.—Ligature of the Subclavian Artery for Axillary Aneurism. Med. Times and Gaz., July 14, p. 34. Skey.—False Axillary Aneurism, after Fracture and Dislocation of the Humerus. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 14, p. 34. In this case Skey exposed and tied the axillary artery ahove and below the seat of injury. The dissection was difficult, in consequence of the consolidation of the tissues, and much blood was lost. Death ensued thirty hours after the operation. The axillary artery, where it is sur- rounded by the brachial plexus, and the radial nerve, were torn across. Skey thought that these injuries had probably been inflicted by a sharp fragment of the humerus, which had been obliquely fractured. The capsule of the shoulder-joint had been lacerated. Lawrence.—Femoral Aneurism; Trial of Compression ; Ligature of the Femoral Artery; Phagedena of the Wound, and. Suppuration of the Sac; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., March 31, p. 316. Quain, Mr.—Aneurism of the Left Femoral Artery, treated by Com- pression ; Consolidation of the Tumour within fifteen weeks. Lancet, Oct. 13, p. 358. t The aneurismal tumour, as large as a pigeon's egg, was situated about four fingers' breadth below the groin, in the middle line. The cure was retarded by the occurrence of slough, from the pressure caused by the pads of the instruments. Colles, W.—Case of Popliteal Aneurism; Compression; Great in- crease of the Tumour; Flexion of Limb ; Cure. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., June 15, p. 177. The patient, only twenty-one years old, was intemperate, and had had syphilis. The tumour, of the size of a goose's egg, was of six weeks'