283 BOXES. was determined after death to have flowed from the temporo-maxillary joint into the cartilaginous portion of the meatus, thus simulating the discharge of cerebro-spinal fluid. Bastian.—Fracture of the Second Rib in a Child; General Emphysema of the Entire Body, from Wound of the Lung and Pleura ; Fatal Result. Lancet, Dec. i, p. 538. Henry S—, set. 9, was admitted into University College Hospital, Sept. 2otb, 1860, at six o'clock p.m., the wheel of an omnibus having, ten minutes previously, passed over his chest. There was intense general emphysema of the whole body, from the scalp to below the knees. The face was dusky. The skin over the chest was tense, and no broken rib could be felt. There was urgent dyspnoea, marked pneumothorax on the right and slight on the left side, and a weak, r'apid pulse. The dyspnoea increasing, when the child had almost ceased to breathe, and the pulse could scarcely be felt, the house-surgeon (Bastian) thrust a small trocar into the right side of the chest, between the fifth and sixth ribs. Air rushed out for several seconds, and the symptoms were immediately relieved ; the child, however, sank, and died in a few minutes. A small splinter of the second rib had pierced the pleura and lung. 7. Upper Extremity. Ewen.—Case of Intra-uterine Fracture of the Clavicle. Med. Times and Gaz., May 12, p. 482. Skey.—Clinical Observations on some Complicated Injuries about the Shoulder-joint, and on Fracture of the Scapula. Lancet, April 14, p. 368. THADEN, Dr.— On Axillary Dislocations. H. u. Pf.'s Ztschr., 3 Reihe, v, p. 180—199, 1859. Schmidt, No. 4, p. 71, vol. 106. Thaden describes a case of dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, with the appearances displayed in dissection. The arm could be easily rotated outwards. The elbow stood away from the chest, and could not be made to touch it. The arm seemed to be somewhat lengthened ; the empty glenoid cavity could be felt below the projecting acromion ; the tip of the coracoid process was prominent, and an inch below it the head of the humerus was found; the position of the latter, with reference to the glenoid cavity, was downwards, forwards, and inwards. The dis- location was reduced, but the patient, a woman, aged 42, died on the third day, in consequence of other severe injuries. The soft parts around the joint showed extravasation, particularly in the armpit, and into the connective tissue between the vessels and nerves. The head of the humerus was in the articular cavity. The two upper facets of its greater tuberosity, forming a piece the size of half a walnut, were split off, and lay on the head, upon which they could be slid, and to which they were still attached by periosteum and capsule. The capsule was torn at its humeral insertion • the rent ran from a quarter of an inch below the lesser tuberosity back- wards to a quarter of an inch from the greater. Two smaller lacerations half an inch long, occurred, near together, in the neighbourhood of the greater tuberosity. The lower border of the muscl. subscap. was torn