117 SUKUEIIY. Hamostatica.—The compression of arteries by a long pin passed trans- versely to the axis of the bleeding vessel, in such a manner as to include some of the tissues on either side of it, has been recommended by Simpson as a substitute for the common thread ligature. Hernia.—Wood's is the most promising of all the operations for the radical cure. Gosselin recommends a prolonged and forcible taxis in all cases of strangulated hernia during the first twenty-four hours, after which he thinks it may be dangerous. Rouse deprecates this practice. Chloroform is shown by Bryant to be a most valuable auxiliary to the taxis. GlGNAO has found it useful to invert and shake his patient. A similar posture has been recommended by Jjsssop. Strong coffee is recommended by some foreign surgeons; after a patient has taken a dozen cups or so, a hernia which had resisted the taxis is said to have spontaneously receded. Suppuration of Joints.—Chassaignac speaks highly of the use of drainage-tubes. In chronic synovial disease ScHUH has successfully em- ployed iodine injections. A valvular incision is preferable to a direct one for" the removal of loose cartilages. The very wide adoption of excision in cases in which formerly amputation would have been done, shows that this practice is rapidly gaining ground. Paracentesis.—Trousseau says, in tapping the chest, the trocar should be thrust rapidly through the pleura, in order to make sure of piercing the false membranes which may line it, and so avoid detaching them. In an able lecture on paracentesis of the pericardium, he lays down rules for this operation, and records cases where it was successful. Carter suggests that the belly should be tapped with a smaller trocar than that generally used, and that only enough fluid should be drawn off as suffices to relieve the prominent symptoms. Polypus.—Recently recorded cases prove that the removal of fibrous polypi, firmly rooted to the base of the skull and filling the nares, can be better effected by cutting away the front of the antrum than by splitting the hard and soft palates. Rectum.—H. Smith writes in favour of the application of strong nitric acid to moderate prolapses of the mucous membrane. Rest.—Hilton's lectures show the great importance of mechanical and physiological rest in accidents and surgical diseases. Rodent Ulcer.—Removal by caustics or the knife is, according to Hutchinson, the only efficient treatment. Stone.—Thompson insists on the great importance of an early diag- nosis, because, whilst still small, the stone may generally be destroyed with the lithotrite, even in children, and lithotomy avoided. Sutures.—Gustav Simon recommends horsehair as a good substitute for metal wire. Tetanus.—Physiological considerations and recently recorded facts are 27