RJSPOIiT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. so clog was put into a vessel filled with water, nnd at the moment of its sub- mersion it made a rapid inspiration of water, which was immediately followed by a jerking expiration, accompanied by the expulsion of a consi- dcrable quantity of air. From this instant no further respiratory move- menta were observed. The animal moved about, but neither inspired nor rxpired. At the end of four or five minutes it was dead. On examination the lips were found closed, the glottis shut, and there was oidy a small quantity of water in the bronchi. In the second series of experiments, a small opening was made in the trachea, and a eanula inserted into it. No sooner was the animal sub- merged than it inspired, and a quantity of water penetrated into its chest. It immediately coughed, and a number of air-bubbles escaped by the eanula and by the mouth. From this moment the animal made no further attempts at respiration. On dissection, a small quantity of frothy water was found in the lower parts of the bronchi, as in the first series of experiments. In a third series of experiments, a eanula was inserted in the trachea as before, and the animal entirely submerged, except the head, which was held out of the water. Scarcely had immersion been completed, when the animal inspired, and the water entered through the eanula into the lungs. A violent expiration followed, carrying with it a quantity of air and water, and then respiration ceased. In a few seconds respiration recommenced, and continued calmly for some time, less and less air appearing at each expiration, till at length merely water was expelled, and the animal died. On examination the trachea and bronchi were found literally filled with water, without any air. Reflections.—In death by drowning, the animal closes the mouth and glottis, in order to prevent the water from entering the lungs, even when there is a direct communication between the trachea and the water j but if the natural respiratory orifices are not submerged, the animal makes no such effort. It appears, therefore, that the closure of the mouth and glottis, as well as the arrest of respiration, is, in ordinary cases of death by drowning, due to reflex action. The small quantity of frothy water which is usually found in the trachea after death is that which acci- dentally entered with the first abrupt respiratory effort. The author con- cludes his remarks by stating that death by drowning has a very close resemblance to death resulting from tetanic spasm of the respiratory muscles. Dr. Salter.—The Nature and Cause of the Respiratory Murmur. Lancet, ioth Nov., p. 462. Salter expresses the opinions at which he has arrived in the following summary :—ist. That the air-cells are structurally incapable of producing a respiratory murmur by their slight dilatation. 2d. That the respiratory murmur is essentially a fine-tube sound. 3d. That the lobular passages and ultimate bronchial radicles are probably its immediate seat. 4th. That while the lung-parenchyma, from its heterogeneous constitution, com- pletely muffles all sound, the unbroken column of air in the bronchial tree is an excellent conductor; that thus the respiratory murmur has a double cause, and is in part the result of air- and wall-friction at the spot, and in part the bronchial sound of the larger tubes (although essentially