DISEASES OP CHILDREN. 403 Aug. Schmitt.—On " Peliosis Itheumatica" of Children. Mem. a. d. Praxis, v, 3. Schmidt, vol. 107, P-3H- Mayr.—'Erythema Nodosum in Children. Jahrb. f. Kind., I, 2, p. 59. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 72. Seven cases form the basis of this communication. There are two forms of the affection—the simple and the complicated, the complications being pustular formations, hremorrhages, and oedema. For the simple disease, cold baths, cold drinks, and a cooling regimen, are re- commended. Bokamy.—Note on an Epidemic of Erythema—Gangrenous Intertrigo of the Ears, observed in Children at an early age. Monit. des Sc. Med. et Ph., 1859, 38, 39. Canst., vol. iv, p. 402. The locality of the epidemic was the department of the Pyrenees Orientales. Most of the children affected were at the breast. The want of cleanliness and attention seemed to be the actual cause; the heat was excessive, long-continued, and the atmosphere unusually dry. Dr. Banks— Rubeola, with Effusion of Pus into the Joints. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., April 2d, i860, p. 97. Herpes Tonsurans. Report from the SS. Ann and Joseph's Children's Hospital, Vienna. Jahrb. f. Kind., 1, 2, p. 85. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 72. Schueler.— Therapeutic Remarks on the Eczema of Children. Jahrb. f. Kind., 1859, ii, 3, p. 123. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 65. Dr. Hodges.— Case of Vaccination when the period of Incubation was One Year. Kep. of Obst. Soc. of London, Lancet, Nov. 17, 1860^.489, DYSCRASLE. Jonathan Hutchinson.—On Iritis as it occurs in Syphilitic Infants, Med. Times and Gaz., July 14th, i860, p. 31. Hutchinson gives a tabulated statement of twenty-one cases of syphilitic iritis in infants, which have been observed by himself (fifteen) and others (six). " Infantile iritis" is a term which may be used synonymously with " heredito-syphilitic iritis." The disease is very infrequent, often over- looked, and is attended with serious consequences; but its destructive effects on the sight may be easily prevented if a correct diagnosis be early formed; The conclusions to be drawn from the series of cases are as follows :—1. The female sex is far more subject to the disease than the male. 2. Syphilitic infants are most liable to it at about the age of five months. 3. Syphi- litic iritis is often symmetrical, but quite as frequently not so. 4. As it occurs in infants, it is seldom complicated, and it is attended by few of the more severe symptoms observed in the adult. 5. The effusion of lymph is usually very free, the danger of occlusion of the pupil great. 6. Mercurial treatment is most singularly efficacious in curing the disease and, if recent, in procuring the complete absorption of the effused lymph. 7. Mercurial treatment previously adopted does not prevent the occurrence of this form of iritis. 8. The subjects of infantile iritis, though often puny and cachectic, are also often apparently in good health. 9. One or other of the well-recognised symptoms of hereditary taint are almost always