487 POISONS AND POISONING. 2. Mineral Acids. Ogle.—Effects of Poisoning by Sulphuric Acid. Trans. Path. Soo., vol. xi, p. 294. T. H—, a servant, who had lost money by betting, was observed to stagger and fall in the street. On being brought to hospital immediately after, he was in a state of collapse, from which he never rallied, and died nine hours after admission. On examination of the body, the mouth, lips, and part of the chin were found to be charred and desiccated. The stomach contained about a pint of " reddish, acid fluid." There M'as extreme congestion of the mucous membrane of the oesophagus, and destruction, with charred appearance, of the smaller curvature and pyloric end of the stomach, the neighbouring parts, as well as the mucous membrane of the duodenum, being of a " dark-reddish brown." From the suddenness with which the symptoms came on, as well as from the appearances after death, the author concludes that "the poison had been taken in a very concentrated form, and in tolerably large quantity." Budd.—Poisoning by Nitric Acid. Lancet, Nov. 24th. J. D—, set. 36, was admitted, May 2d, into St. George's Hospital, eight weeks after taking an ounce of "aqua fortis" in beer. There were epigastric pain, vomiting after food, pyrosis—the vomited liquid being neutral—and constipation, extreme exhaustion and emaciation. He lin- gered in hospital till October 2d, the symptoms being from time to time relieved by opium. At the autopsy "a distinct cicatrix, with puckering and induration of the surrounding mucous membrane near the pyloric extremity of the stomach," was found. The other organs were healthy. 3. Oxalic Acid. Thxjdichuji.—Experiments on Oxalic Acid and Oatmeal Gruel. Med. Times, April 21st, Skinner.—Bemarks on the above. Med. Times, April 28th. Dr. Thudichum communicates the results of experiments consisting in the administration to unsuspecting persons of gruel containing oxalic acid. He concludes that this substance cannot be administered without the knowledge of the recipient if it contain as much as ten grains to the pint, much less if it contain a poisonous dose. He further describes the effect produced in his own person by taking sixteen ounces of gruel containing ten grains of oxalic acid, six hours after the previous meal. He experienced immediately a " disagreeable, acid, and astringent taste ;" subsequently "roughness of the tongue," "corrosion," and hyperesthesia of the teeth. 1 Jl1"" ?kinner suggests, from analogy, that sugar and spice might pro- bably be successfully employed to render food containing oxalic acid palatable. He gives no experiments. Skinner.—Suspected Poisoning by Oxalic Acid, or its Salts. Brit Med Journ., Feb. 5th and May 12th.