REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 220 C. G. Koiieiiardt.— On the treatment of pneumonia. Berlin, 1859. Canst. Jahrd., Vol. iii, p. 273. Kohlhardt treats especially of bloodletting in pneumonia, and main- tains that V. S. hi certain cases is an excellent symptomatic remedy. BouitOADE.—Diagnostic researches respecting the fust period of pulmonary tuberculosis. Gazz. Med. Ital. Lombard, No. 25, 1859. Canst. Jabrb., Vol. iii, p. 283. Bourgade confirms from his experience the value of interrupted (saccadee) respiration as the earliest auscultatory sign of phthisis. Bottini.—On some remedies lately introduced for the cure of phthisis. Gazz. Med. Ital. Stati Sardi, No. 1, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 283. Bottini found phosphite of lime or soda, as well as Band's phospholin quite inert, but obtained good results from chloride of sodium and iodine in milk. Anderl.—On thoracentesis. Deutsche Klinik, No. 3-12, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p, 286. Anderl advocates thoracentesis, denying that absorption even of serous effusions is other than a rare event, and endeavouring to show by statistics that in the majority of cases (40 out of 64) the operation was more or less beneficial. He holds the entrance of air into the pleural cavity to be quite innocuous, and prefers the simplest mode of operating without any particular apparatus. He thinks it essential that there should be constantly a free outlet for the pus, &c, and advises rather a free incision than leaving a trocar in the wound. The operation is not to be too long delayed, especially when by an explo- ratory puncture certainty can be obtained of the existence of pus in the pleura. Tuberculosis, advanced age, debility, cachexia, the long exist- ence of the disease, seem to him no contra-indication. Moller.—Report on the Royal Med. Poliklinik at Konigsberg for 1856 and 1857. Konigsberg, Med. Jahrb., i Vol., 3 Part, 1859, p. 391. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 289. Moller is satisfied from careful trial of the efficacy of the well-known combination of tr.-lytt, tr.-cinchon, and tr.-camph-co. in whooping cough. Guntner. On Abccsses in the Anterior Mediastinum. Oestcrr. Zcitschr. f. prakt. Heilkde., No. 10-12, 1859. Canst, Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 290. Guntner gives an account of the disease from observation of 4 cases; in none of them was any cause discovered except a chill. The symp- toms are such as result from pressure on the walls of the mediastinum. The chief danger is from plcuritis, pericarditis, or pya?mia. Aran.—Clinical observations on Pleurisy and Thoracentesis. Gaz. des Hopit. No. 98 and 99. Med. T. and Gaz. Dee. 15th. Aran thinks that the only contra-indication to thoracentesis is the existence of gangrene of the lung or pleura, 111 wind. ease, tl.e Hind escaping from the wound, has such irritant properties,.that,it.induces a diffused phlegma which proves fatal. He conhrnies Louis s law that