REPOBT OX PnACTICAI, MEDICIXE. ISO amongst fcb.086 suffering from religious and suicidal lypemania. Phy- sical insensibility manifests itself sometimes in a transitory form, and exists only during the continuance of the paroxysms in certain maniacal fits. Among the remedial means which M. Auzouy has used with advantage he mentions cold affusions, frictions, with stimulating appli- cations, or with congealed snow, muscular exercise and manual labour, urtication, ^etherization carried as far as the period of excitement only, and electro-magnetism. Of authorization he speaks very favorably, and also of electricity. The latter waB tried on various classes of patients, with the view of testing the degree of analgesia in each. Out of seven cretins four showed no sensibility to the current, two had very little, in one the sensibility was nearly normal. Out of 18 idiots in four the skin was quite insensible, in 7 there were traces of obtuse sensibility, in 5 the sensibility was normal, and in 2 excessive, of 32 imbeciles 5 were wholly insensible, 18 had obtuse sensibility, 7 normal, 2 excessive. Of seventeen melancholies in seven the cutaneous sensibility was quasi- normal, in four it was diminished, and in six it was wholly lost. Their muscular contractions were always energetic. In thirteen monomaniacs there were six cases of well-marked analgesia. In almost all the others the cutaneous sensibility was more or less diminished; in three a temporary improvement was effected iri, the mental condition, and a similar result, or even more favorable, has been obtained with some lypemaniacs. Of thirty-five maniacs none were benefited; in several, at least, the sensibility seems to have been nearly normal. M. Auzouy believes that electricity is a precious means of exploring the mental state of the insane, inasmuch as its influence is in direct ratio of the exterior sensibility, and intellectual development of the subject, what- ever be besides the particular type of his madness. He thinks it useful also as a therapeutical agent in cases of depression, and as a means of detecting malingerers. Needham.—On Acute Mania. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 14th. Needham has some remarks on acute mania, which he divides into the following groups of cases: sthenic, asthenic, and sub-acute per- sistent. After sketching the symptoms he describes the treatment he has found most efficacious. In the sthenic cases leeches to the head, purging with calomel and croton oil, and tartar emetic in 1 grain doses 3tiis horis until the bowels are freely acted upon; after tliis a full opiate at bed-time. He considers the purging action of the antimony essential, and eschews producing nausea. In asthenic cases he uses, after aperients and warm bathing, opium combined with diffusable stimulants. Forced exercise, as walking, he finds beneficial in equal- ising the circulation and producing weariness. In the sub-acute persistent no treatment seems to be of much avail, and Mr. Needham believes there is commonly organic, cerebral, or, at all events, visceral change. Death ensues by gradual exhaustion, or by a paralytic seizure. Jakvis.—On the Causes of Mental Diseases. J. of Mental Sc., Jan., i860. Jarvis writing on the causes of mental disease Btates that among