286 REPORT ON SURGERY. Stanley.— Compound Dislocation of the Ankle-joint; Reduction; Tela- nus on the fifth day; Death; Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 4th, p. 107. Hutchinson, J.—A Report on Dislocations of the Astragalus. Med. Times and Gnz., Dec. 8th, p. 581. Five cases of this injury are here related. Legouest, L.—Fractures of the Calcaneus. Arch. g<5n., j BeY., xvi, p. 148; A6ut. Schmidt, No. 12, p. 341, vol. 108. _ Legouest describes this fracture from three cases which had come under his notice during the past year. He says it is generally produced by a fall on the heel, and has been termed byMalgaigne "fracture par 6crase- ment." In all cases the transverse diameter of the foot is increased at the seat of fracture, whilst the depressed heel i3 lengthened backwards. Crepitation is often obscure or absent; this renders the diagnosis diffi- cult, especially when the displacement is slight. 8. Retentive Apparatus. Morel-Lavallee.—An Articulating Bandage, a New Method of prevent- ing Stiffness and Anchylosis in Fractures. Bull, de The>., lviii, p. 202, Mars. Schmidt, No. 8, p. 230, vol. 107. Stiffness is to be prevented by passive motion of the fractured limbs, and in order to facilitate this the opposed surfaces of the inner and outer dextrine bandages which Morel-Lavallee employs are lubricated with tallow or other fatty matter, opposite the joints. Durr.—A System of Gutta-percha Splitits, with Simplification of their Parts. Preuss. milit. arztl. Ztg., 11. Schmidt, No. 10, p. 68, vol. 108. Durr uses a mixture of five parts of gutta percha, two of hog's lard, and one and a half of white-pine resin, which softens and hardens more rapidly, and is less dear than crude or rolled gutta percha, does not shrink, and is made new again by re-melting. FLEMING, Ciir.—Remarks on the use of the Plaster of Paris or Gypsum Bandage, in the Treatment of Fractures, Dislocations, Sfc. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Sept. 15th, p. 273. An account of Gurlt's plan of using this bandage, with an historical sketch, by Gurlt, of the employment of plaster of Paris in the treatment of fractures. Schultz, Hermn.—The Wadding Bandage; from Personal Experience. Deutsche Klin., 6—9. Schmidt, No. 9, p. 321, vol. 107. The author has obtained the happiest results in cases of severe injury, from the use of wadding bandages, a plan which, according to his expe- rience, is superior to so-called antiphlogistic modes of treatment. Of forty-five complicated fractures put up in wadding, not one patient died, no limbs were lost; erysipelas, pyaemia, and gangrene, in spite of over- crowding of the hospital, never occurred. After removal of loose splinters and the adjustment of the broken bones, the injured limb