OBPOET o.\ Till: [NSTITUTE8 OF MEDICINE. 3d. That under both these circumstance*, the sugar could only he derived from the nitrogenous elements of the body, and, therefore, that some such ratio might, on a priori grounds, have been expected. W. Mi'tLLEH.— Researches on the Excretion of Urea after Operations. Froriep's Notiz., vol. iv, p. 288. Canst., vol. ii, p. 77. Miiller made the following observations:—(1.) immediately after a por- tion of the body has been removed by operation, the quantity of urea diminishes ; (2.) in a couple of days after a "capital operation," the urea increases in the urine; (3.) the increased amount of urea continues in direct proportion with the severity of the operation, the loss of flesh, and increase of bodily temperature ; (4.) after a time, as the patient recovers strength and flesh, the amount of urea falls to the normal standard, or even a little below it. Prof. Malmsten.— Crystals of Uric Acid in Pemp>higus Vesicles. Hygeia, vol. xx, p. 183. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 6. The fluid of the pemphigus pustule had an acid reaction, and under the microscope was found by Malmsten to contain distinct crystals of uric acid. This observation is interesting, as some say that the disease in question is connected with affections of the urinary organs. Dr. Hassall.— On the Frequent Occurrence of Phosphate of Lime in the Crystalline Form in the Human Urine. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 38, p. 281. Lancet, Feb. 25th. Hassall says that deposits of the phosphates of lime, in well-marked and highly characteristic forms, are of frequent occurrence in human urine, much more so, indeed, than the amorphous deposits of that salt, which are comparatively rare and exceptional. He thinks, therefore, that the statements hitherto advanced, regarding the absence of crystalline phosphates in human urine, are erroneous; and that the reason why the deposits of phosphate of lime have been overlooked is, because the de- posits of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate are mixed, and confounded with them. The two kinds of crystals are, however, very different. He looks upon the occurrence of a deposit of phosphate of lime of deeper pathological interest than that of a deposit of phosphate of mag- nesia and ammonia. Dr. David Nelson.—On Albuminuria, and its Ferro-albuminous Treat- ment. Brit. Med. Journ., 1st Sept., p. 683, and Sept. 8th, p. 703. In treating the above subject, Nelson remarks that he does not intend to imply that the line of treatment proposed is curative or restorative of kid- neys that have become disorganized ; but simply to uphold and illustrate the doctrine, that albuminuria, to a very great extent, and accompanied by the sundry symptoms of dropsy, &c, may exist for a length of time, and yet be subdued by means of the remedies recommended. The author observes, in reference to the varied nature of the disease, that it consists essentially in a deposit of foreign matter of low organiza- tion within the proper tissues of the kidneys, which proper tissues become atrophied and ultimately absorbed. These deposits, having no power to assume the glandular functions, are not calculated to eliminate those excretions which ought thence to be drained, without, at the same time, showing a tendency to permit the most valuable reparative material