REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 106 1. That the disease may continue for many months, and even years, without much apparent injury to the general health. 2. That in such cases there* may he, and have been, intermissions of several days, and sometimes of months and years, during which the urine was apparently healthy. 3. That notwithstanding the daily loss of albumen, fibrin, red globules, and fatty matter, there may be very little or no emaciation. The patient may, on the contrary, abound in adipose tissue, and his muscles be appa- rently well nourished. 4. The fatty matter generally appears in the urine after eating, and but seldom before, or if so in very small quantity. But there are exceptions to this rule, as in the case recorded by Golding Bird. 5. That astringents, and especially gallic acid, with attention to diet, exercise, &c, seem to be the most efficacious remedies, but that the dis- ease is generally very little under the permanent control of remedies. 6. The kidney is in a very different condition from that of Bright's disease, inasmuch as renal epithelium, tube-casts, &c, are not generally found in the urine; neither do pathological changes, at all resembling those in Bright's disease, occur in the kidney secreting milky urine. On the contrary, in the only two cases of autopsy Dr. Isaacs has been able to find, viz., that recorded by Prout and one reported by himself, the kid- neys were perfectly healthy. 7. From the examination of the kidneys in Isaacs' case, it is positively demonstrated that there was, in that instance, no organic lesion of the organ; and from the symptoms and history of the other cases, the same conclusion may properly, he thinks, be deduced with regard to them. Moreover, the state of general good health, the intermittence of the symp- toms, the absence of loss of weight, and the effects of remedies, show that there was, in all probability, no organic lesion of any of the other organs, at least in the greater number of the cases. Dr. Milner Barky.—Urine suspected to be Chylous. Archiv. of Med., No- 5> P- 46. , Case.—W. A—, aged 10, a staid-looking, pale-complexioned boy fairly grown and nourished for his age (has always been delicate, his spirits out- running his strength), began to suffer from constant weakness and vomit- ing, and, at the same time, to pass milky urine. The urine resembles milk diluted with water, is acid, has no urinous smell, and possesses, in general, a specific gravity of 1018. After standing, a cream-like layer forms on the surface. Heat, or the addition of nitric acid, produces a scanty,, curdy precipitate. When shaken with ether, the urine becomes transpa- rent, and a thin coagulum forms by repose between the ether and urine. When examined with the microscope, numerous oil-globules are seen, like those present in milk. Dr. William Roberts.—On the Estimation 0/Sugar in Diabetic Urine by the Loss of Density after Fermentation. Trans. Manchester Phil. Soc. Med. Circ, Dec. 19th, p. 419. Roberts states that when diabetic urine is fermented with yeast, its specific gravity, which may have previously ranged from 1030 to 1050, falls to 1009 or 1002, or even below 1000; this result being mostly due to the destruction of the sugar it contained, but partly, also, to the