REPORT ON SURGERY. &14 Jamain.—Rupture of the Urethra; Infiltration of Urine; Fracture of the Pubis; Death on eighth day. Ann. par Jamain et Walm, P' 235- Paget.—Fracture of the Pelvis and Rupture of the Urethra ; Stricture, with False Passages and a Fulse Bladder; Operation; Successful Result. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. ii, p. 141. A large pouch had formed between the pubes and true bladder, into which the urine constantly escaped. Catheters passed readily into this pouch, but could not be introduced into the bladder. There was a fistula in the perinceum, which was hard and swollen. Paget cut into the peri- nceum in the middle line, found the vesical part of the urethra with a probe, and succeeded in placing a No. 8 flexible catheter in the bladder. Fergusson.—Case of Obliterated Urethra from Injury; Three Fistula: in Perinceo ; Satisfactory Results from Treatment. Lancet, July 21, P- 57- A seaman, aged twenty-two, was struck on the perinseum by a beam, which lacerated the urethra; the urine flowed by the wound for upwards of two months. Three months after the wound had nearly healed, three fistulse formed in the perinseum. A catheter was introduced with difficulty, the patient being under the influence of chloroform, and the urethra having been again rendered patent, the three fistulas closed ; a fourth, which was situated just in front of the scrotum, was diminished by a plastic operation. Symonds.—Old Stricture complicated with Abscess ; Retention of Urine ; Perineal Section; Complete Recovery. Symonds.—Transient Retention of Urine; Perineal Section subsequently done for Relief of the Stricture ; Successful in Immediate, Fatal in Secondary, Results ; Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 11, p. 134. LUNN, Dr.—Retention of Urine, and Impassable Stricture; Perineal Urethrotomy; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 11, p. 142. A man, aged twenty-four, of intemperate habits, and who had been the subject of stricture for six years, during the first five of which he had been in the habit of passing a bougie, was seized with retention of urine March 17th. A catheter could not be passed, j8th.—A little urine passed, but a second trial with the catheter failed ; peritonitis set in. 19th.—A third attempt with the catheter being unsuccessful, Lunn cut down on the extremity of the instrument in the perineeum, and with some difficulty the urethra was opened beyond the stricture. Haemorrhage was free. No great quantity of urine escaped. 21st.—Death. Autopsy.—Signs of peritonitis, chiefly in the iliac regions ; bladder empty, contracted ; an opening, a quarter of an inch long at its fundus; the cellular tissue in the pubic region dark, gangrenous, had a urinous odour. Craven.— Impassable Stricture and Extravasation of Urine; Perineal Urethrotomy ; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 11, p. 143. Lee, Henry.—Division of Stricture of the Urethra by the Boutonnibre Operation. Lancet, April 14, p. 372. Hamilton.—Two Cases of Impermeable Stricture of the Urethra, treated .with Stafford's Perforator. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., March 1, p. 65.