KKI'OllT ON PKACTICAL MKDICIN'K. 11)8 Kuhncr, from tlie analysis of a series of eases of valvular disease, docs not confirm (}o||'k experiments, which (lemODBtrated the important influonco exerted by the haamOBtfttio pressure upon tlie secretion of urine. McDowel.—On an unusual cause of death in Thoracic Aneurism. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., Aug. 15th. In McDowel's case there was neither abnormal impulse, nor abnormal sound, but orthopnoea and severe dyspnoea, with stridor in respiration apparently laryngeal. The symptoms had come on suddenly. The diagnosis of aneurismal tumour was grounded on the greater feebleness of tlie right pulse, the presence of dull percussion over the upper bone of the sternum, and feebleness of respiratory murmur in the right lung. At the post-mortem examination an aneurism of the arch of the aorta was found pressing on the trachea, narrowing especially its right side. Thompson.—RemarJcs on the Causes, Diagnosis, and Treatment of Arteritis. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Aug., i860. Thompson relates 3 cases of arteritis, one of which, occurring in the lower lip, proved fatal; another required amputation of the arm to save life, and a third recovered after almost spontaneous detachment of the right great toe. He proceeds to describe the chief pathological changes that occur in the arteries; the causes and changes that take place in arteritis; the symptoms, diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. He considers diffuse arteritis as identical with diffuse erysipelatoid inflammation. Adhesive arteritis induces obstruction of the vessel and gangrene. The symptoms, if a main artery be affected, are pyrexia, heat, soreness, and tension along the track of the vessel, numbness and pricking pain in the distal parts of the limb, which, after a time, becomes pulseless, cold, dark coloured, and cedematous. Deep-seated pain radiates in all directions through the limb, and the cutaneous sensibility becomes extreme and continues so until the complete death of the part. In general arteritis the fever is inflammatory at first, but rapidly becomes typhoid. The patient is sleepless, and tosses about with an uncontrollable feeling of distress. In local arteritis, he recommends leeching, fomentations, or ice, calomel and opium, with effervescing salines. In diffuse, chlorate of potash, camphor, turpen- tine, quinine, acids, iron, and stimulants with nourishment. Coote.—Remarks on a Case of Piarrhcemia accompanying acute Dialctcs Mellitus. Lancet, Sept. 8th, 15th. Coote collected blood from the cerebral sinuses, the V. innomin. and right ventricle, the liepatic veins, and from the splenic. The blood was fluid in every part of the body examined except a very small clot in the right ventricle. After rest, a supernatant creamy fluid was found in all except that from the splenic vein. This creamy matter was wholly taken up by ether; it contained no oil globules, no cells, and showed no trace of coagulated librine. The subjacent liquid wa« like ordinary venous blood. The reaction of the scrum was neutral. A volatile alkali was driven off by heat; this was most distinct in the