RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 75 When the hand is immersed in water or mercury, it is insensible to an amount of pressure that would be keenly felt in the air. This the author attributes to the circumstance that the liquid in which the hand is im- mersed presses uniformly, and a solid unequally, upon the furrowed surface of the skin. He refers the difference, not to increased tension, but to molecular oscillation. The tactile corpuscles sustain a succession of impulses directed in the experiment with quicksilver towards their bases, and as pressure in this instance is not perceived, it is concluded that such action directed perpendicularly does not affect the ends of the nerves. Wind blowing perpendicularly against the hand produces no sensation of contact, but au oblique stream from a blowpipe does. RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. L. P. Fuappier.—Mechanical Influence of the Respiration on the Circu- lation and on Certain Organs. Paris, 1859, 4to. A.T.H."Waters.—Onthe Anatomy ofthe Human Lung. Pamphlet, pp. 233. This essay obtained the Fothergillian Medal of the London Medical Society. The following is the author's summary of his labours : The lungs consist of two portions—1. That which constitutes the con- vective channels, by means of which the air is carried to and from the true respiratory portion. 2. The true respiratory portion—that in which the process of respiration is carried on. 3. The first portion is formed of the trachea, the bronchi, and the bronchial tubes. 4. The second portion is formed of the terminal dilatations of the bronchial tubes, together with a number of tubes given off from them, to which the name of air-sacs has ! jeen given, to each assemblage of which the term lobulette has been I applied ; the terminal dilatation of the bronchial tube is, in fact, but the ; commencement of the lobulette, or the point de reunion of the various iair-sacs. 5. The convective channels consist of cartilaginous rings, muscular and fibrous tissue, and a mucous membrane, which is lined by a columnar, ciliated epithelium. 6. The respiratory portion presents on the parietes of the parts of which it is composed a number of depressions, to which the term alveoli has been given ; these alveoli exist in the air- sacs and in the terminal dilatation of the bronchial tubes, and in some mimals in the ultimate bronchial tubes, previous to their dilatation. 7. I The air-sacs and the alveolated portion of the bronchial tubes are lined Iby a variety of the pavement epithelium. 8. The pulmonary artery I distributes its blood to the respiratory portion of the lungs. 9. The I pulmonary veins return the blood which has been distributed by the Ipulmonary artery. 10. The ultimate branches of the pulmonary artery I n the air-sacs form the nutritious vessels of the respiratory portion of the B ungs, ii. The bronchial arteries distribute their blood to the bronchi, Lhe bronchial tubes, the vessels and areolar tissue of the lungs; the tranches that enter the lungs pour their contents into the pulmonary /eins. 12. The bronchial veins return the blood which is distributed to .he structures about the roots of the lungs. 13. The lymphatic vessels of ;he lungs form two sets, a superficial and deep. The former are found at .he surface of the lungs ; the latter chiefly accompany the bronchial tubes. [4. The nerves of the lungs are derived from the pneumogastric and 1 sympathetic ; branches are distributed chiefly to the bronchial tubes, but