WOUNDS. 269 One of the most remarkable of these cases is that of a man who, with the intention of destroying himself, swallowed a piece of iron eight and a half inches long, and as thick as a finger. It was soon afterwards felt transversely in the region of the stomach, hut in the following days changed'its situation, and on the nineteenth reached the rectum, which it perforated, and was removed through an incision. Partridge.— Removal of a Jelly-mould from the Vagina; Vesico-vaginul Fistula. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 13th, p. 357. A tin cup, two and a half inches in diameter and about three inches deep, with wrinkled sides, was removed by Partridge from the vagina of an unmarried servant girl, set. 24. Its round bottom was in contact with the os uteri, and its open end pointed towards the vulva. The cup was filled, as well as encrusted externally, with phosphatic deposits ; the vagina also contained a quantity of the same mortar-like material, and several calculi were removed from the bladder through a large opening in the upper wall of the vagina. The patient at first professed ignorance of the presence of the cup, but from subsequent statements it had been in the vagina about one year. <. Sutures and Dressings. Startin.—Description of the New Staple-suture, without a Ligature. Med. Times and Gaz., April 21, i860, p. 391. This is a piece of steel wire, shaped like a staple, the ends of which are grouud to a triangular or glover's point. In using it, the points of the staple are to be thrust through both margins of the wound, and then bent back. Price.—On a Convenient Needle for the Ready Application of Metallic Sutures in the Operations of Cleft Palate, Vesico-vaginal Fislidce, tyc. Med. Times and Gaz., June 9, p. 574. This is Startin's tubular needle, with the addition of a catch-spring fixed to a sliding-bar, that holds the wire and projects it by a movement of the finger. Startin.— Clinical Remarks on Varices and the "Bar-needle and Clasp." Med. Times and Gaz., May 26, p. 516. This needle resembles a sickle with a long, straight handle, to which a small clasp is fitted. The needle being put under the vein, the clasp is hooked over it. Roseh.—The Twisted Suture. Arch. f. Physiol. Heillc, N. F. iii, p. 323, 18^9. Schmidt, No. 9, vol. 107, p. 319. In order to avoid the injurious dragging which often happens in re- moving a deeply placed knotted suture, for instance, in a deeply lacerated perinaeum, Roser, instead of knotting the ends of the thread, twists them together, and then ties them, to prevent them untwisting. In order to remove them, they need only be cut behind the point where they are tied, when they can be easily untwisted, one end of the thread can be shortened, and the loop pulled away by the other end. Simon, Gust.—The Application of several Bows of Sutures for the Union of Wounds. Archiv f. Physiol. Heilk., N. F. iii, p. 312 1859. Schmidt, No. 9, vol. 107, p. 320.