REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICIXE. 178 Cris. Zuradei.ei. The tallies of the Madid Nerve, resulting from Rheu- matism and Injury. Gazz. Med. ltal. LomL, 1858, No. 44—47. Canst., Jalirb., Vol. iii, p. 75. Zuradelli gives a full account of the predisposing and determining causes, the three forms (neuralgic, sudden, and mixed), the symptom,^ diagnosis, prognosis, duration, termination, complications, and treatment of the rheumatic disease. The chief remedial means in well-marked cases arc vesicants, sulphur baths, and electricity. The disease lias no tendency to get well spontaneously, it is more difficult of cure the longer it has lasted. The paralysis is of sensation as well as of motion in the majority of cases, in others there are neuralgic pains with nocturnal exacerbation, or formication, or other dysaesthesiaj. The disease in bad cases extends to the median and ulnar nerves. Zuradelli.—Of Palsy of the Spinal Muscles. Gazz. Mod. Ital. Lomb., No. 18—21. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 77. The disease in question is peculiar to males, and appears to be induced by occupations in which the spinal muscles are severely tasked. Insolation, injuries to the spinal column, as well as lumbago {i.e. rheu- matism.), seem also to have some influence in occasioning it. Its course is slow, especially at first, when it is fully developed the patients are confined to bed. The disease occurs sometimes idiopathically, more often it is symptomatic of some disease of the spinal cord, or vertebra?. In the way of treatment Zuradelli recommends local bloodletting at first, issues, strychnine, internally and externally, and electricity. Luts.—Epilepsy (case). Jour, du Progres, No. 11. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 81. Luys case was one of epilepsy from tubercles in the vicinity of the roots of the fifth nerve. Brown-Sequard remarks a propos of this case that cerebral tumours almost always produce epilepsy if they are in contact with the dura mater, otherwise they do not. Bongard.—Some Considerations respecting Epilepsy. Jour, de Med. de Bruxelles, March, April. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 81. Bongard has treated sixteen patients by induced electricity, four of these were cured, ten improved, and in two no benefit was obtained. Some of the improved are still under treatment, and may still be cured. Schroder v. der Kolk, Dejime, and Brows-Sequard are all in favour of counter-irritants applied to the neck in epilepsy, as sctons, issues, and even the actual cautery.—Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 91. Voisra.—Of Hysterical Cutaneous Anesthesia. Gaz. JJebdom. 1858, No. 48. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 93. Voisin states that hysterical anaesthesia very rarely occurs except after a violent convulsive attack attended with loss of consciousness. Among fifteen such cases anesthesia was found in eleven, the others were examined too late. Voisin thinks that the loss of consciousness stands in a causal relation to the anesthesia. He confirms Beau's