REPORT ON LEGAL MEDIC INE AM) PUBLIC HYGIENE. M<§d. de Const., Gaz. d'Orient, No. 5, p. 6. •156 on nutrition, and explain* l>y it tlie fact that under its influence nourish- ment lasts longer. The statements of the author, as reported by Von Clarus, arc in some respects inconsistent. j^iniOFF.—llelleborus and Veratrum Album, Prag. Vjhrschr., vol. Ixiv, pp. 106—142, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 291. , As regards the poisonous action of veratrum, the author finds that the radicles are much more active than the root-stock, and that their activity is entirely confined to their outer rind. The action of the radicles cor- responds in every respect with those of the alkaloid veratrine, the seat of which is therefore considered to be,par excellence, the cortical substance of the radicles. The rhizome, or root-stock, contains relatively much less of the alkaloid, and appears to owe its activity in part to another similar principle, such as the alkaloid sabadillin, discovered by Simon in veratrum sjibadilla. The action of the radicles he describes as follows :—Death is always preceded by tonic and clonic spasm ; at least in no instance were re- flex contractions absent. This the author attributes to a special relation of veratrum to the medulla oblongata and motorial apparatus of the spinal cord—a relation which is also indicated by its effect in retarding the respiratory movements. This retardation does not, as in the case of digitalis and aconite, occur pari passu with impairment of the action of the heart. Neither veratrine nor veratrum produces gastro-enteritis. At the site of its operation, however, it gives rise to a passing hypersemia, resulting, if intense, in shedding of the epithelium of the stomach and intestine. Nausea is a constant result, often vomiting'; but the purgative action of the drug is uncertain. The root-stock, and all preparations of it, differ in their modes of action from the radicles. The spinal spasms nffecting the muscles of animal life are entirely wanting; on the other hand, characteristic reflex paralyses present themselves. Between veratrum and hellebore the following differences are pointed out:—Hellebore produces no reflex spasms or paralysis; the drug has a much greater tendency to increase the secretion of the intestinal canal, while it rapidly extinguishes its irritability, and that of the heart, thus showrrrg that, although it acts less upon the medulla and spinal cord, it exerts a more direct influence on the ganglionic system and on the dependent organic processes. This paresis of the sympathetic accounts for the rapid cessation of the heart's action, which contrasts with the continuance of that action after the cessation of respiration, observed in poisoning by veratrum. The following are the poisonous doses of the preparations of veratrum:—After seventy grains of the fresh root-stock, the characteristic symptoms were produced, but the animal recovered in a few days ; five grains of the alcoholic extract of the same were fatal in thirteen hours. One grain of the alcoholic extract of the radicles produced death in less than three hours, while the same quantity of the extract of the root-stock had a scarcely perceptible effect. Bartsciia.—Poisoning by Colcliicum in a Child. Recovery. Joum. f. Kinderk., vol. xviii, p. 300. Castaldi and Fauvel.— On Poisoning by Belladonna. Soc. imp. de