RBPOUT UN THB INSTITUTBfl OF MEDICINE. 124- F. P. Le Roux.— On the Production of Ozone by means of a Platinum Wire, rendered red hot by the Electric Current. Compt. lleud., 2d April, i860, p. 691. If the head be held directly over a fine platinum wire, rendered red hot by n current of electricity passing through it, an unmistakeable odour of ozone will be perceived. And if the heated air coming from the wire be collected in an inverted funnel with a long chimney, in order that it may be cooled in its passage upwards, not only will the nose be able to detect the presence of ozone, but test-papers held over the funnel will give distinct evidence of that substance by changing their colour in the course of a very few minutes. From this result, Le Roux thinks we are authorised to conclude that atmospheric air, in passing over a fine wire of platinum, heated in the manner described, undergoes a modification, and acquires the characteristic properties of ozone ; and further, that this fact permits one to hope that this will prove an easy method of obtaining ozone in quantity. Whether or not the electricity acts merely as a heating agent, or exerts some special property in the production of the ozone, Le Roux is not yet prepared to offer an opinion. E. J. Lowe.—A Neio Ozone-box and Test-slips. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 40, The box is simple in construction, small in size, and cylindrical in form ; the chamber in which the test-slips are hung is perfectly dark, and has a constant current of air circulating through it, no matter from what quarter the wind is blowing. The box is made by Negretti and Zambra, of Hatton Garden. Lowe makes his test-slips of calico, as it is stronger than paper. From experiments made with the box, he has drawn up several tables, which show that ozone is always in excess in the night, and that the tests exposed for twenty-four hours are much more acted on by the ozone than those exposed only for twelve hours. The mean amount of ozone, with the box suspended at the height of twenty-five feet, was— 1859, December.—24 hours' exposure = 3.0 48 hours' exposure = 5.0 1860, January.— „ „ = 3-9 » » =4-5 „ February.— „ „ =3-7 » » =54 „ March.— „ „ = 5.9 „ = 6.4 Mean amount of ozone, with box suspended at the height of forty feet, March, i860, with twenty-four hours' exposure = 7.1. Gorvjp-Besanez.—On the Action of Ozone on Organic Compounds. Annal. der Chem. u. Pharm., vol. cx, p. 86. Canst., vol. i, p. 184. The ozone employed by the author was prepared by Marignac's method. Moist air being drawn by means of an aspirator through a long glass tube containing a few pieces of pure phosphorus, the air so ozonized was then passed through two Woolf's bottles, containing water, in order to remove the phosphoric acid ; and lastly into a watery solution of the substances about to be experimented upon. In those cases where the substances themselves were fluids, to make a watery solution was of course unnecessary. When a greater quantity of ozone was required than could thus be obtained, it was prepared by means of phosphorus in large glass vessels (sulphuric-acid bottles), in the ordinary way. I'1