ItEPOltT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. a view of determining the exnct time of the supposed murder, the question was submitted to the Academy of Medicine " to determine as precisely as possible, according to the condition of the body and the facts related, the duration of the combustion." The conclusions arrived at were, that it was almost impossible that the burning of the dress and integuments should have resulted by communication from the burning powder, especially as the part of the shirt at which the shot was received was not destroyed j that on the opposite supposition the burning of the hands could not be explained, and that it was impossible to determine the duration of the combustion. The paper contains important experiments undertaken with a view to the elucidation of the effects of the discharge of firearms at very short distances, in setting fire to different textile materials. Tardieu.—Medico-Legal Investigation of a Case of Violent Death Ly Gun-shot. Question of Suicide or Accident. Ann. d'llyg., vol. xiii, P« 443- On the 7th of September, 185S, a traveller took a cab at the Lyons railway station ; the driver, as he was passing along the Boulevard Beaumarchais, heard a report of firearms in the carriage; and, on stop- ping, found his fare sitting in the left corner with his legs crossed; a double-barrelled gun, with the left barrel discharged, rested against the front of the carriage on the right side. The direction of the wound showed that the charge entered above the left eyebrow, and passed almost horizontally from right to left, carrying away the left side of the skull. The author demonstrated, from the direction of the wound, from the obliquity implied by it in the position of the gun considered in relation to the smallness of the carriage, that the shot must have been premeditated and suicidal. Moller.—On the Influence of strong External Pressure on the Production of Sugillation. Casper, vol.xvii, p. 85, Jan., i860. Schmidt, 105, p. 52. For the investigation of this question the author experimented on animals. The limbs or other parts operated upon were placed between two boards, which were suddenly forcibly approximated either by a screw or a heavy weight of iron; the pressure was kept up for twenty minutes, the animals having been previously etherized. No sugillations took place excepting in parts which wrere protected, and in cases in which the animal could not be restrained from movements of such violence as to interfere with the pressure. The investigation arose out of a case in which the body of a man was found compressed between the stones of a mill. Schroter.—Fracture of the Basis Cranii, and Fracture with Depres- sion of the Calvarium. Sero-sanguineous Discharge from the Ears. Med. Corresp. Blatt., vol. xxix, p. 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 8. A case, which terminated favorably, in which a diagnosis of fracture of the base of the cranium was founded on profuse haemorrhage into the pharynx, as well as from the nostrils and right ear, discharge of cerebro- spinal fluid from the latter, and paralysis of the auditory, oculo-motorius and abducens nerves. Doll.—Judgment and Opinion on an Injury of the Head, tvith Depres- sion of Bone. Ocst. Zeitsch., vol. v, p. 16. . . _j