POISONS AXD POTSO>'T>TG. J H 5. Arsenic. Taylor.—Facts and Fallacies connected ivith the Research for Arsenic and Antimony, with suggestions for a method of separating these poisons from organic matter. Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. vi, p. 201. The papei- opens with an examination of Marsh's process as a method of separating arsenic from the solids and fluids of the body, in reference to which the author concludes that there is no good or simple method of bring- ing the arsenic to a sufficiently concentrated state, and at the same time avoiding the inconvenient production of froth ; and that w hen the quantity of arsenic in an organic liquid is so small as to render the adoption of the process necessary, it is not possible to follow the plan of the inventor, of generating the hydrogen in the whole quantity of the organic liquid. He then gives an account of the discovery and successive improvements of Reinsch's process, and describes a method suggested by Mr. Watson, of Bolton, of distinguishing the deposits of antimony on copper from those of arsenic. The copper is to be boiled, with constant agitation, in a weak solution of potash, in a tube. Metallic antimony is rapidly oxidized and converted into a soluble antimonite of potash, while the arsenical crust is unaltered. The alkaline liquid is then to be acidulated with hydrochloric acid, and precipitated by a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen. The second part of the paper is devoted to the demonstration that arsenic is found in appreciable quantity in all the commercial forms of copper, and particularly in electrotype-copper, copper-wire, gauze and foil, and that this fact was, at the period of the investigation consequent on the trial of Smethurst, "anew fact in science." In support of this propo- sition the author quotes numerous authorities to show " that no reference is made even to the possible presence of arsenic as a contaminating ingredient in copper" by any previous author. He next describes several methods of detecting arsenic in copper, of which the following was found to be free from all objections. The copper in question is to be "exposed to a stratum of pure and concentrated hydrochloric acid contained in a saucer, the metal being partly immersed and partly exposed." A brown liquid (solution of subchloride of copper in hydrochloric acid) is obtained, which is then to be distilled to dryness in a small retort in a sand-bath, and the vapour condensed in a flask containing distilled water. "A per- fectly clear solution of chloride of arsenic or a mixture of hydrochloric and arsenious acids, is thus obtained, in which arsenic can be detected by Reinsch's or Marsh's tests." The remainder of the paper is devoted to the statement and illustration of the method which the author now " feels justified in recommending for the separation and detection of arsenic in liquids and solids, whether organic or inorganic." It is based—1st, on the ready conversion of arsenic into chloride ; 2d, the transformation of this compound into hydride by Marsh's process ; 3d, the production of metallic arsenic, of arsenious and arsenic acids, from the hydride ; and 4th, testing the products. The first step is accomplished by drying the substauce in question thoroughly by the watcr-bath or a current of air, covering it (in a globular flask, with a short neck, fitted with a conducting tube*) with pure concentrated hydrochloric acid, and then gradually heating the mixture in a sand-bath