l L2 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Haulier, practising in Munich, found diphtherial present epidemically, not during, but after, scarlatina, pertussis, and measles had been preva- lent tor fourteen months. He in satisfied that diphtheria is contagious. He used nitrate of silver very freely, and with the best results. Oudeniioven.—On Beri-Beri. Ncdcrl. Tijdschr. v., Gcneesk. ii., p 577, Oct., 1858. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 308. Oudenhoven, in a paper on Beri-Beri, after a description of the general features of the earlier stage of the disease, proceeds to consider the three different forms which it subsequently may present, admitting, however, that these often occur more or less blended together. The marantic form is very chronic, but mostly tends to an inevitable fatal termination. The cutaneous anaesthesia and muscular debility of the lower limbs in- crease, aud the arms also become affected, until all the extremities are perfectly paralytic. The sensorium, however, remains active, and the functions of the internal organs are still performed. Gradually, the anaesthesia and palsy increase, the patient becomes utterly apathetic, and dies in a comatose state. The hydropic form has a speedier course, but admits of more hope of recovery. Effusions take place into the areolar tissue, and into the various serous cavities, and often prove rapidly fatal, especially hydrothorax and hydropericardium. The anaesthesia and paralysis are less marked. The poh/sarcous form is sometimes very slow in its course, sometimes rapidly fatal. The paralysis and anaes- thesia do not often attain a high degree. The heart is often notably hypertrophied. Death occurs, not uncommonly, suddenly and unex- pectedly. No post-mortem appearances explain the nature of the disease; in particular, nothing has been found in the nervous centres to account for the paralysis. The heart is generally fatty. The liver, as a rule, enlarged and Ivypersemic. Kidneys, normal. The treatment is essentially tonic and invigorating. Lawson.—Remarks on the Treatment of Inflammation, with especial Reference to Pneumonia. Americ. J. of Med. Sc., Jan., i860. Lawson's paper is occupied with a critical discussion of the views maintained by Bennet and others, regarding inflammation. He con- siders Dr. Bennet's propositions separately, and strongly controverts them, He argues that it is desirable to diminish the flow of blood to an inflamed part, and that bloodletting will moderate fever, reduce the force of cardiac and arterial action, and thereby diminish the flow of blood into the inflamed tissues, and proportionally lessen the exudation of lymph. In contradiction to the opinion that an inflammation, once established, cannot be cut short by treatment, Lawson strongly contends that this is both possiblo, and matter of common experience. In oppo- sition to Bennet's statistics, showing the greater success of his expectant treatment, as compared to a more active, Lawson adduces those of Bennet, Froupea, and Wossildo, who employed bleeding and antimony with a much lower mortality than Bennet. From a general and extensive review, he concludes that the statistics of pneumonia, as a whole, are utterly worthless and unreliable as practical guides. On the question as to whether disease is of a lower type than formerly, Lawson adopts the affirmative; although inclining to think that practitioners are often