KKl'ORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 108 they were not readily dissolved. On allowing the ammoniacal solution to evaporate spontaneously, the crystals re-formed, and were even larger thun before. On being burned, they gave off a smell like that of burning hair, but left no residue. When heated along with nitric acid to dryness on platinum, and a drop of soda solution added (Scherer's method), the crystals gave an intense rusty yellow colour. From these characters it was con- cluded that they were tyrosin,—an opinion which the microscopical examination confirmed. Pn. Munk.—On Urine Pigment. Allg. mcd. Central-ztg., No. 26. Canst., vol. ii, p. 77. Munk's observations were made upon a man aged 39, while in hospital, under the care of Professor Traube. The patient stated that he had enjoyed good health until about two years before his admission, when he began to suffer from pains in the loins and trembling of the lower limbs. These increased, and he became so weak that he had to give up work. On examination, the urine was found (1) to be of a dark red colour; (2) to contain neither albumen nor bile-pigment; (3) to stain filter-paper red ; (4) to become darker when heated with nitric acid ; (5) to assume with sulphuric acid a fine deep violet colour ; (6) to become decolorized when hydrochloric acid and ziuc were added to it; the red colour could, however, be restored by adding nitric acid ; (7) and lastly, with ammonia, the urine became green. The quantity passed in twenty-four hours was much below the average ; it varied from about fourteen to twenty-three ounces. A very small amount of chlorides and urea was found in the urine. Munk separated the colouring matter from the urine in a pure state, and found that it was insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol, ether, and chloroform. It dissolved in soda solution with a pale red colour; in ammonia, with a green ; in hydrochloric acid, with a red ; in sulphuric acid, with a dark violet hue ; and in nitric acid, it became colourless. When burned, it left an ash containing iron. Prof. Beale.—Ui ine of Chorea. Archiv. of Med., No. 5, p. 48. The following specimens of urine were passed by a little girl, nine years of age, while suffering from chorea. The case was not a severe one. The child weighed forty-four pounds. The urine passed in twenty-four hours amounted to nineteen ounces, sp. gr. 1018, on the 8th October; twenty-four ounces, sp. gr. 1014, on the 9th October, reaction acid. Contained— 8tU October. In twenty-four hours. Water .... 958.70 Solids .... 41-30 343 grains Urea .... 24.00 200 „ Sulphates 2.096 17 .. Fixed salts . 12.008 100 fllh October. Water .... 964.000 Solids .... 35-Soo 37<> .. Urea .... 21.000 200 „ Sulphates 1.414 i.S >i Fixed salts . 11.014 116 „ The proportion of urea excreted in chorea is very great, as has been shown by Dr. Ii. Jones, Beale, and others.