BONES. 289 IV.—Excisions op Joints. Excisions.—Statistical Report of the Principal Operations performed during the Tear 1859. Med. Times and Gnz., April 21, p. 395. This contains particulars of twenty-one cases of excision of the hip, knee, elbow, and wrist joints; of two resections of the astragalus after injury, and of one resection of the os calcis for caries. IIeyfeldeu, J. F.—Contributions to the Study of Resections. Deutsche Klinik, No. 29 and following. These comprise an interesting series of resections of the jaw, clavicle, scapula, shoulder-joint, external condyle of humerus, olecranon, elbow- joint, lower end of ulna, metacarpal bones, knee-joint, tibia, calcaneus, and metatarsal bones. Esmarch.—Description of a Resection-Splirit. A Contribution to Con- servative Military-Art. With five woodcuts. 4-to. 14. Kiel, Schwers., 1859. Canst, vol. v, p. 214. This ingenious contrivance consists of a foot-piece, and of three broad slings which support the leg, knee, and thigh. These are fixed separately to a horizontal bar, supported by an upright at either end, and can be removed separately without shifting the position of the limb. 1. Upper Extremity. Dr. King.—Excision of the Shoulder-joint; Death from Phthisis. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 116, Feb. 4. Cukling.—Excision of the Elboiv-joint in an Old Man ; Successful Result. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 8, p. 240. The patient was sixty-eight, and his disease caries. He left the hospital, the parts being soundly healed, ten weeks after the operation. In connection with this case two others are mentioned, in which Messrs. Statham and Erichsen operated at the ages of seventy and sixty-three. Erichsen.—Excision of the Wrist-joint and Carpus ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., April 14, p. 366. Ekichsen.—Excision of the Elboio-joint. Clinical Remarks. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 3, p. 435. Le Gros Clark.—Case of Excision of the Elbow-joint. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 10, p. 447. Cadge.—Case of Ulceration of the Cartilages of the Elbow-joint ; Ex- cision ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 4, p. 109. Schillbach, Dr. Ludwig.— Contributions to Resections of Bones; 2d part, Resections of the Upper Extremities. Jena, Manke, 8vo, 240. Canst., vol. v, p. 214. Schillbach describes two cases of resection of the shoulder-joint, and comments on the various methods of performing the operation. He thinks that no great advantage is gained by preserving the long tendons of the biceps. He says that partial resections of the elbow-joint do not generally 19