385 SPECIAL DISEASES. nourish the patient well. Under the name "puerperal hypochondriasis" the author describes a morbidly depressed state of mind which is some- times met with in practice weeks or months after delivery. In reference to the etiology of the disease, albuminuria was found to be present at the commencement, and to recur contemporaneously with subsequent attacks of insanity. Phlegmasia Dolens, Puerperal Thromboses, fyc. Dr. Tilbury Fox.— On Phlegmasia Volens. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 201. Tilbury Fox contends that the general prevailing opinion, that phleg- masia dolens is a disease dependent upon inflammatory change, is too limited. Phlegmasia dolens may occur—i, as the sole local disease, as after abortion, &c.; 2, as part of a general disease—(a) either of virus origin, e.g. puerperal fever, &c, (b) or abnormal nutrition, ex., cancer, phthisis; 3, as complicating other local diseases, e. g. iliac abscess, &c. Its evolution depends on the existence of obstructive disease in both veins and lymphatics, the causes of the obstruction being extrinsic or intrinsic as regards the vessels. The extrinsic causes are comprised under the head of pressure from without. The intrinsic, all producing coagulation, are—1, true phlebitis, conjoined with angeioleucitis ; 2, thrombosis; 3, a mixture of these two; 4, preternatural coagulability of the blood, doubtful (merely a favorable condition). The main point insisted on is, that in phlegmasia dolens there is, in most cases, a pure thrombus, produced by sudden absorption of morbid fluid, the (compensating) effect of sudden loss. In phlegmasia dolens the lymphatics as well as the veins are involved. Dr. Tilbury Fox, — On the Pathological Lesion of Phlegmasia Dolens. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 222. Tilbury Fox states that the presence of fibrinous serosity in (with more or less hypertrophy of) the fibro-cellular tissue is the essential, the suffi- cient, pathological lesion of phlegmasia dolens. Inflammation, abscess, and sloughing, he regards as the eliminative act to rid the system of some blood-poison ; the latter may produce lymphatic and venous obstruc- tion, and hence phlegmasia dolens, which in these cases is a local compli- cation of the general disease. Hence there are two classes of cases— (a) the complicated, (b) the uncomplicated. In the former the phlegmasia dolens is only part of a general disease, in the latter it is thewhole disease and a local one. The lymphatics, besides having other offices, keep the balance of nutrition of the cellular tissue correct; their obstruction is followed by retention of fibrine, &c, i. e. the excess of pabulum is not removed. Paulsen.—Puerperal Thromboses; Sudden Death; Embolia of the Pul- monary Arteries. Hosp. Tidende, 1859, No- 4°. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 328. Dr. R. Uvedale West.— Case of Sudden Apoplectiform Seizure ter- minating fatally in thirty-five hours on the sixth day of bnna-in Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 276. ' 25