229 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. fibrous band which crossed the left colon and very much narrowed its canal This band passed from the apex of a loop of the ileum to the peritoneum over the spleen. The sides of this bop were adherent, and the chief obstruction seemed to have been at this point, as lib. of mercury wliich been given was found above it, together with fecal liquid, and the canal was much distended. Yosa.—Gangrene and Detachment of a portion of Intestine. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 335. Voss's patient, on the 20th day of his illness, passed by stool a gangrenous piece of intestine consisting of 10 inches of the ileum, the whole coecum, and a part of the ascending colon. Recovery went on well. Ixman.—On Morning Sickness, its Significance as a Symptom. Brit. Med. J., March 24th. Inman refers the occurrence of morning sickness to some deteriora- tion of vital power, especially of the brain and stomach. He cites instances of its affecting men as well as pregnant women. As remedies, he recommends those which improve the condition of the patient generally, improve the steadiness of the circulation in the brain, and the tone of the stomach, and diminish the undue sensibility of the weak organs. Treitz.—On TJraimic Intestinal Affections. Prag. Vierteljahrschr. lxiv, p. 143, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 40. Treitz describes the whole intestinal tract in ursemic patients as in a state of chronic blenorrhcea, or catarrh, with more or less intense con- gestion. The mucous surface is irritated by the ammoniacal contents; in parts it becomes sloughy, gangrenous, or ulcerated, sometimes even perforations occur; sometimes dysentery is set up with suppuration and ulceration; sometimes again, especially in the flexures of the colon, a state is met with, which Treitz calls maceration-dysentery, and which is characterised by pretty extensive, roundish patches of loss of substance, whose base is formed by the submucous or muscular coat, and whose edges are sharply defined and softened to transparent jelly. Dropsy existed, together with catarrh, blenorrhoea, and hydro- rhosa, in about Jths of the 220 cases examined, about as often together with follicular and maceration-dysentery, with croupous and ulcerative dysentery it was present in 57 per cent., and with sloughing in 41-6 per cent. In some experiments upon dogs, it was found that when the blood was saturated with urea, that which was introduced into the intestine rapidly underwent decomposition, while in healthy animals it was absorbed unchanged, and no ammoniacal reaction was obtained. The same, no doubt, occurs in M. Brightu and analogous states. The true ursemic state of the blood should be distinguished, the author thinks, from that produced by the absorption of ammonia. The former he would term Urarmia, the latter Ammoniaimia. The principal object of treatment is to prevent, by chemical means, the decomposition of the urea in the intestinal canal, and to fix, in the form of salts, that which is already formed.