POISONS AND POISONING. 451 With albumen previously to ndministrntion, does not difler from that of pure sublimate, and concludes tl.at albumen is only an imaginary antidote ; he denies that the poison has any other direct action than that of inducing local inflammation in the parts to which it is applied. Coghlan.—Case of Poisoning by Corrosive Sublimate. Med. Gaz., Feb. i8tb. ... A healthy lad, ret. 19, took about twelve grains of corrosive sublimate in a wineuiass of water, at 8 a.m. Three minutes after he vomited, and fifteen minutes afterwards he was purged. Tliese symptoms continued till 7 p.m., when he was first seen. The skin was then cold, the pulse 136, feeble, and he was vomiting mucus tinged with blood. There was intense injection of the mouth and fauces, but not much abdominal pain. Re- action was successfully induced by the application of warmth to the feet and sinapisms to the'belly; after which albuminous drinks were given, with 5 minims of tinct. opii every half hour. He was convalescent in a few days. Auer.—Case of Poisoning by Corrosive Sublimate. Bayer, arztl. Intell. Blatt., 43. 8. Other Metallic Poisons. Tourdes.—On the Poisonous Action of Proto-sulphate of Iron. Gaz. de Strasb., No. 4, 1859. Canst, vol. v, p. 92. These researches were undertaken on account of the frequency of poison- ing by green vitriol. In rabbits, into the stomach of which this substance had been injected, accelerated respiration was the only phenomenon observed. This soon gave way to the gradual and tranquil approach of asphyxia and death. Iron was found in quantity in the blood, bile, and urine. The albumen of the blood was found to be modified as regards its coagulability, in so far that the precipitate obtained by nitric acid and heat was rendered soluble in excess of water and nitric acid, and the fibrine had lost its coagulability. " Saccharate of lime" and carbonate of soda are recommended as the best antidotes. Oppolzer.—Chronic Poisoning by Copper. Deut. Klinik, No. 19, 1859. Oppolzer relates several cases of chronic poisoning by copper occurring in workmen engaged in copper manufactories, in which the symptoms of the so-called copper colic manifested themselves with great intensity, and were in some instances followed by a paralysis of the upper limbs not distinguishable from that which is produced by lead. The cases were distinguishable from those of lead-poisoning by the greenish-yellow tinge of the countenance, the occurrence of diarrhoea alternating with consti- pation, and the presence of copper in the urine. Aldis.—Case of Poisoning by Liu. Plumbi Biac. Bil. Med. Gaz., Jan. 14. A prostitute, aged twenty-one, swallowed in successive small doses § of a pint of a lotion containing liq. plumbi diac. dil. She experienced imme- diately a sensation of heat in the throat, thirst, nausea, and epigastric pain. Wheu first seen at 10 p.m., she was writhing with pain referred