889 DISEASES OF CHILDREN. the amount of disease, the year with a low mortality showing a high per-centage of disease. Andrew Combe and Sir James Clark.—The Management of Infancy, Physiological and Moral, intended chiefly for the use of Parents. oth ed., Edinb., i860, Maclachlan and Stewart, pp. .302. This, the ninth edition of Combe's well-known work on the hygiene of childhood, has been revised and edited by Sir James Clark. Philothalos.— The Wife's Domain. London, i860, Churchill. A series of familiar discourses delivered to poor women, attending as patients at a small establishment devoted to the relief of children's and maternal diseases. Pye Henry Chavasse.—Advice to a Mother on the Management of her Offspring. 5th ed., i2mo, Lond., i860, Churchill. This edition is much enlarged, greatly improved, and the price reduced. Deschamps.—On Alimentation during Infancy, and Bachitism. These. Paris, 1859. Steinberger.—On the Formation of the Milk Teeth, and the Symptoms attending their Appearance. Jahrb. f. Kind., 1859, 2. Andrien.—Treatment of Diarrhoea in Children, and particularly by a Milk Diet and the Pulp of Raw Meat. These. Paris, 1859. Scharlau.—A Substitute for Human Milk. Illustrirten Ztg., i860, No. 863, p. 27. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 196. Dr. Routh.—Infant Feeding, and its Influence on Life ; or, the Causes, and Prevention of Infant Mortality. London, Churchill, i860, pp. 378. In Part I of this work the question of mortality in infants of tender age is discussed, and statistics are adduced ; the mortality in foundling hospitals, and the causes of the same, are pointed out. The latter are chiefly the recumbent position and want of exercise and breast-milk. In Part II are considered, the advantages of breast-milk in ensuring life and good de- velopment, the question of wet-nursing, the evil effects of the practice of employing wet-nurses from among fallen women, the qualifications of a wet- nurse to be selected, the danger of dry-nursing. In Part III, the causes of the mortality in infancy are considered, the true principle of alimen- tation laid down, and the respective advantages of the several substitutes for human milk examined. Part IV is chiefly devoted to the question of the treatment of defective lactation ; and the treatment and nature of defective assimilation in the infant are again considered. Mrs. M. A. Baines.—The Comparative Properties of Human and Animal Milks 5 a new Theory as to Essences, and a new interpretation of some Physiological Facts. 8vo, Lond., Churchill, i860, pp. 31. The chief object of this paper is to show that cow's milk, unless mixed with farinaceous substances, is unfit food for infants in cases where the mother's milk is not obtainable ; also to show that the milk of one woman is unfit nourishment for the child of another.