REPORT ON SURGERY. 302 seventh cartilage, having reference to tlie spot of greatest dulness, where the heart's sou nils are least heard. The costal cartilages, which touch each other at this part, should he separated by a spatula, or other con- venient instrument, and, if necessary, a piece should be cut away large enough to allow the point of the finger to penetrate to the outer surface of the pericardium, which should only then be incised or punctured when the presence of fluid beneath the finger has been positively ascertained. BELLY. I.—Gastrotomy. Jones, Sydney.— 'Epithelial Cancer of the Pharynx; Threatened Death by Starvation; Gastrotomy; Death; Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 4th, p. 115. Jones had performed tracheotomy five months previously, in conse- quence of urgent dyspnoea. Deglutition, which had for several months been extremely difficult and painful, at length became impossible, and during six weeks the patient was kept alive by enemata. As she was sinking from starvation, Jones performed gastrotomy. Making an inci- sion about three inches and a half long, from between the eighth and ninth costal cartilages of the left side parallel to the outer edge of the rectus, the tendon of the inferior oblique and transverse oblique was divided and the peritoneum was opened. The stomach was drawn forwards and opened by a vertical cut § of an inch long, the edges of which were firmly sewed to the skin. Death followed thirty-six hours afterwards. Bell, Dr.—A Successful Case of Gastrotomy. Boston Journ., vol. xli, pp. 489—493. Med. Times and Gaz., March 31st, p. 332. In this case a bar of lead, iof inches long, and weighing nine ounces, which had been accidentally swallowed whilst juggling nine days before, was removed through an incision reaching from the point of the second false rib to the umbilicus. II.—Paracentesis. Carter, Th. A.—Some Suggestions for the Improvement of Paracentesis Abdominis in Cases of Ascites. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 15th, P- »53- . • , Carter proposes to obviate some of the disadvantages of the usual mode of tapping the belly in dropsy, by using a smaller trocar, which is to be thrust obliquely inwards and upwards through the abdominal walls during a deep inspiration. Only just so much fluid should be drawn off as will relieve the prominent symptoms. IIIi—Wounds. Flower. — Perforation of the Ileum by a Piece of Bone ; Acute Peritonitis, with Symptoms simulating Femoi-al Hernia. Ib., p. 6x1. In this case a splinter of beef bone, an inch and a half long, had per- forated the ileum, about eight inches above the ileo-csecal valve, and escaped into the peritoneal sac, together with iugesta, setting up peritonitis.