B15PORT ON THE INSTITUTES OK MEDICINE, 120 (14) Bile, when freed from.mucus, colouring-matter, and fnt, undergoes no change; but if the ozone he passed through crude fresh bile, it is decolourized ; nnd on being evaporated leaves a residue soluble in alcohol. Ozone would, therefore, appear to destroy both colouring-matter and mucus. (15) Hippnric acid is not acted on by ozone. Gorup-Bcsanez concludes from his researches that the action of ozone in the animal economy resem- bles a decomposing rather than an oxidizing process. II. SQ&RODEft.—On the Filtration of the Air, in reference to Fvtrcfaction, Fermentation, and Crystallization. Aunal. der Chem. u. Pharm., vol. cix, p. 35. Canst., vol. i, p. 185. On a previous occasion, Schroder, in concert with Dusch, called attention to the fact that when air is filtered through cotton wool before it is allowed to come in contact with organic substances, the putrefactive and fermen- tative processes are retarded. Schroder in the present communication repeats the same statement, and relates at the same time a number of original experiments, from among which we select the following: 1. Fresh albumen was put into a bottle, mixed with water, and heated to the boiling point. When that was reached, the mouth of the bottle was immediately closed with cotton-wool, and the whole set aside in a room the temperature of which varied from io° to 150 R. In twenty? eight clays, the contents of the bottle were examined, and found to be perfectly fresh and unchanged ; even with the microscope the author faded to detect any organized bodies in the mixture. The same portion of albumen was now left freely exposed to the air, that is to say, the mouth of the bottle was no longer closed with cotton wool, and notwith- standing this, it was not until other nine days had elapsed that any putrid odour could be discovered. 2. Another quantity of albumen treated exactly in the same way. with the exception of the mouth of the bottle being left open from the first, had already shown signs of decomposition in eight days. Hence it would appear, that albumen freely exposed to the atmosphere, after it had already stood twenty-eight days in contact with filtered air, does not putrefy sooner than if it had, while perfectly fresh, been from the commencement so exposed. ' A second series of experiments was made in order to ascertain if ozone had anything ta do with the putrefactive process. Another glass bottle, containing albumen and water, besides having the air supplied to it filtered, had also a stream of ozone passed through it during several hours each day. At the end of thirty-eight days, the bottle was opened, and its contents examined. There was no trace of putrefaction, or of any organized beings in the mixture. The author concludes therefrom, that ozone is not the substance which induces putrefaction in organic matters. Albumen without water, when kept in contact with air filtered through cotton wool, also remains unchanged. Experiments made with the yolk of the hen's egg yielded different results. Stopping up of the mouth of the bottle with cotton wool did not seem to retard in the least degree the putrefactive process. The disagreeable odour, and the presence of vibrioncs, were detected quite a»