GEKEHAL SYSTEM. 145 several instances, with pericarditis, either verified by the autopsy, or declared by friction-sound. The symptoms are in a progressive order: (i) diminished impulse at left apex; (2) cessation of first sound; (3) impulse becoming imperceptible over right apex ; (4) loss of first sound over whole cardiac region; (5) diminution of intensity of second sound. The symptoms disappear in an inverse order. It is a very bad sign if, under the use of stimulants, the action of the heart becomes more rapid, and the impulse restored without the speedy return of the first sound. The pulse is a most fallible guide as to the condition of the heart. Wine, whisky, camphor, and musk, are stimulants which must be used freely, in some cases with flying blisters and dry cupping. Severe delirium or pulmonary congestion, if associated with symptoms of cardiac softening, can only be met by stimulants; if, however, there is no sign of the heart being weakened, tartar emetic and mild anti- phlogistics are appropriate. After an account of the nature of the abdominal lesion, he proceeds to discuss its relation to the fever, and states at some length the views of Broussais, Armstrong, Louis, Chomel, R. Williams. With regard to the question of the identity of typhoid and typhus, he considers (1) the similarity of the symptoms, (2) the identity of the pathological lesions, (3) the community of origin. He contends that, though the symptoms are not precisely similar, their points of dissimilarity are neither so constant, so well defined, nor so im- portant as to warrant the conclusion that the two forms of disease arise from different specific causes. Moreover, the points of resemblance are greatly more numerous than the points of difference. He believes that the greater degree of defibrination of the blood in typhus will account for many of the peevdiarities, and refers to the case of constitutional syphilis to show how many different phenomena may result from the action of the same poison. As to the second head, he refers at some length to his own experience (amounting to 51 autopsies), which forces him to adopt the conclusion that disease of the mucous membrane of the small intestines constitutes the anatomical lesion in typhus as well as in typhoid fever. From a critical review of the published experience of Chomel, Williams, Bright, and Armstrong, he infers that their testimony corroborates his own. He cites Dr. Perry's conclusion that dothiaenteritis occurs in combination with contagious typhus, and is to be met with in about one-sixth of the bodies of typhus patients. Stokes, Huss, and Skoda give their testimony to the same effect. Stress is laid on the want of relation between the symptoms during life, and the disease of the intestinal mucous membrane, as found after death, as furnishing a powerful argument in favour of the identity of the two disorders. The differences between individual cases of typhoid, and those of typhoid and typhus, may be so similar, as to nullify the argument drawn from the dissimilarity of the intestinal lesions. Bell contends that the essential primary lesion is congestion and effusion into the aggregated follicles of the small intestines, with consecutive sloughing, ulceration, and cicatrization, and that the chronic ulcer, which is considered by most as peculiar to typhoid, is in reality the degenerated primary ulcer, and not the pathological lesion. In typhus, the blood is too much defibrinated to supply the material for thickening and induration around the original ulcer. He criticises Jenner's 10