ItEl'OltT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND l'UBLIC HYGIENE. to epigastrium find umbilicus. The abdomino] wall was retracted, the pulse was feeble, and there were tremor and jactitation of the limbs. Two scruple do^es of sulphate of zinc were administered, which were followed by repeated doses of a solution of sulphate of magnesia. The symptoms gradually disappeared, and she recovered. Poisoning by Sugar of Lead. Friedreich, pp. 10,27. Canst., vol. vii, p. 15. In this case poisoning by lead was indicated in an adult male, and in a child of seven year.0, as well by the appearances during life as by the analysis of the intestines after death. Wjcke.— On Snuff containing Lead. Henle, N. F., vol. i, p. 195. Wicke found that snuff packed in lead-foil always contains lead. It is usual to wrap it first in lead-foil and then in two coverings of paper. The foil is usually tinned on one side, but, in spite of this, tlie author found that both the snuff and the paper were impregnated with lead, and the foil encrusted with carbonate, especially it the package had been allowed to become damp. The outer crust of snuff contained 2.743 per cent, of carbonate of lead. Son N en K alb.—On the Impregnation of Snuff with Lead, especially in refer- ence toLeipsic. N. deut. Zeitsch., vol. xiii, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 82. The author relates nineteen characteristic cases of saturnine poisoning, dependent on this adulteration, in fourteen of which there was paralysis, the remaining five being characterised by gastric symptoms. In the former cases the upper extremities were, for the most part, exclusively affected ; and in those in which there was paralysis of the lower limbs it was with one exception preceded by affection of the upper. In one instance slight and transient paralysis of the left side was preceded by three quasi-apoplectic seizures occurring in the course of five weeks. In eighteen cases the onset of the disease was unaccompanied with fever and increase of temperature. In thirteen there were paralysis and atrophy of the extensors, the supinators remaining entirely free from paralysis, and for the most part from atrophy. In four there was arching of the meta- carpal bones ; and in one the carpal joint was painful on movement, and its synovia was increased. Lead colour of the gums was observed in twelve cases. In all the nineteen the patient was subject to abdominal symptoms, such as colicky pains, and constipation, &c, often for several years. The periods for which the poisoned snuff had been used varied from six months to twenty years. All improved rapidly, and got eventually well on leaving it off. The author considers that the lead is introduced into the snuff entirely from the coverings of lead in which it is packed. Cases of Saturnine Disease, occurring in St. Mary's, Guy's, and King's College Hospitals. Lancet, Jan. 21st. Four cases of lead-poisoning arising respectively from the occupation of a gasfitter, from the use of snuff adulterated with lead, of drinking water so contaminated, and from the frequent scouring of pewter. Lauueit.—On Lead-poisoning by means of Glass Dust. Arch. GC-n., Dec, i860, p. 641.