REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 74 sense diminishes rapidly on the lower, but slowly on the upper, surface of the organ. The labial mucous membrane, the root of the tongue, the hard palate, and the gums, are all nearly equally obtuse. The authors tried whether the regions of taste differed from the other surfaces of the mouth in their perception of objects of touch. Oil of turpentine caused burning on the apex of the tongue in five seconds, still sooner about the epiglottis, on the surface and root in twenty, on the soft palate in forty or fifty, and inside the lips and cheeks and on the hard palate in one minute. Applied to spots where taste exists, the oil is tasted considerably sooner than it is felt. The velum palati is more sensitive to cold than any other part of the mouth. These facts show that delicacy of the taste bears no relation to the acuteness of common sensation possessed by the same spot. SMELLING. Owsjannikow.—Microscopic Researches on the Olfactory Lobes of Mam- malia. Compt. Rend., 27th Feb., i860, p. 428. Edm. Simon.—The Lymphatics of the Schneiderian Membrane of Man. Gaz. de Par., vol. ii, p. 159, 1860. Dr. Hoyer.—On the Microscopical Structure of the Nasal Mucous Mem- brane. Arch. f. Anat. u. Phys., p. 50, i860. In the mucous membrane of the nose of mammalia and frogs there are two parts, differing from each other in structure and function. In man the difference is much less marked than in some other animals. 1. The mucous membrane in the neighbourhood of the olfactory nerve is covered with long, small, cylindrical epithelium-cells, which in mam- malia are non-ciliated. In the frog, on the other hand, these cells are covered with long, fine cilia. This portion of the mucous membrane contains a number of gland-follicles (Bowman's glands), lined with yellow, polygonal, granular cells. In the frog there are also glandular follicles, somewhat flask-shaped, and filled with round cells. 2. The rest of the nasal mucous membrane is covered with short, broad, ciliated, cylindrical cells, which form but a single layer. It pos- sesses also a number of gland-follicles, lined with cylindrical epithelium. On one occasion the author found a number of glands, not at all unlike sweat-glands, in the mucous membrane of the human nose. The struc- ture of the stroma of the mucous membrane is the same in all parts of the nasal cavity. The olfactory nerve has a somewhat peculiar texture. Its fibres are isolated with extreme difficulty, and when perfectly fresh contain a uniform, slightly granular, grayish-white substance. On the addition of acetic acid a great number of oblong nuclei, tolerably regularly distributed, come into view. The nuclei lie, in general, parallel with the nerve-fibres. FEELING. W. KitAUSE.—The Terminal Corpuscles of the Nerves of Common Sen- sibility. Hannover, i860, 8vo. pp. 176. On the function of the author's terminal corpuscles, and the Pacinian bodies. Prof. G. Meissner.—Researches on the Setise of Touch. Henle's u. Pfeufer's Zeitschr., 3d series, vol. vii, p. 92. Canst., vol. i, p.90.