11 MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. produced no change; (2) basic acetate of lead gave a slight muddiness, and, after a time, an amorphous precipitate, consisting partly of xanthin; (;) nitrate of silver caused a delicate flocculent deposit to take place; (4) chloride of mercury induced a slight turbidity, which gradually subsided to a flocculent deposit; while (5) the acetate of copper caused the solution, after being gently heated, to become brown, and deposit a similarly coloured precipitate. If nitrate of silver be added to a nitric acid solution of xanthin, there is immediately formed a gelatinous precipitate, which disappears on the mixture being heated, but re-forms on its cooling. This deposit, after standing some time, is found to contain delicate, needle-shaped crystals. It would appear, from the before-mentioned investigations, that xanthin is one of the normal constituents of the animal body. Lorenz's researches were made in Scherer's laboratory, and we may briefly state that he obtained from twelve pounds and a half of the brain of the ox 0.053 gramme (less than a grain, == 0.821 grain) of pure xanthin, and 0.124 gramme (1.922 grain) of pure hypoxantbin. No trace of creatin, inosite, leucin, or lactic acid, was detected. J. Neukomm.—On the Presence of Leucin, Tyrosin, fyc, in the Human Body in Disease. Thesis. Zurich, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 4, Canst., vol, ii, p. 72. The researches of Neukomm were made in Staedeler's laboratory; the cases were those that died in Lebert's wards in the hospital, and the analysis was always begun within twenty-four hours after death. Scherer gives a very full report of Neukomm's researches, from which we have endeavoured to extract and condense as much as possible the more impor- tant matter: Case I. Typhus. Young man ; death in the third week. (a) . Liver. Contained much leucin, less tyrosin, a small quantity of xanthin, and uric acid. For sugar and urea, not tested. (b) . Spleen. Contained leucin and tyrosin in considerable quantity. (c) . Kidneys. Leucin and tyrosin in moderate quantity; inosite and uric acid could not be detected. (d) . Lungs. Tuberculous ; leucin and tyrosin in small quantity. (e) . Heart. Contained much leucin and creatin; uric acid and inosite not detected. Case V. Pleuritis, with cerebral symptoms. Male, set. 44; death after a few days' illness. Tbe liver was somewhat fatty, and contained abundance of leucin and tyrosin. Xanthin was also present in tolerable abundance. Case VI. Spinal paralysis, in consequence of vertebral abscess. Patient set. 23 ; delirium and coma. (a) . Lungs. Contained ammoniacal salts in abundance; leucin in moderate quantity ; no tyrosin ; some uric acid. (b) . Liver. Contained no ammonia ; leucin and tyrosin in quantity j sugar and urea not detected. (c) . Spleen. Contained no ammoniacal salts; leucin and tyrosin in abundance ; no sugar; no urea.