ItEl'OItT OX LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. TaUDIOHUM.—Remarks on Dr. Skinner's Case. Brit. Med. Journ Feb 18th. ' Skinner.—Rejpty to Dr. Thudichum'* Remarks. Ib., March iotli. Facie.—-Poisoning by an Ounce of Oxalic Acid. Lancet, Nov. 24th, p. cog. It. G—, set 31, a man of drunken habits, swallowed three-penny- worth of oxalic acid ; he instantly felt " a burning sensation in the mouth throat, and oesophagus, and intense pain in the stomach ;" he was shortly after brought to hospital in a state of collapse. After treatment by emetics, the stomach-pump, and subsequently chalk mixture at short in- tervals, reaction was established, and all immedintc danger seemed averted; but diarrhoea continued. On the fifth day all unfavorable symptoms had disappeared, he became restless, and died suddenly after getting out of bed. At the autopsy the only morbid appearances were congestion of the mucous membrane of the stomach and "extreme fatty degeneration" of the walls of the heart. Ikin.— Poisoning by Oxalic Acid. Lancet, Dec. 15th, p. 592. A private in the Lancers, set. 26, swallowed an ounce of oxalic acid; vomiting and purging came on almost immediately, and in twenty-five minutes he was dead. No food had been taken for several hours. 4. Phosjihorus. Hoffmann.— On Poisoning by Phosphorus. Med. Centr. Ztg., 68, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 296. The author proposes the following modification of Mitscherlich's appa- ratus. A small flask is to be connected with a small receiver by means of a bent tube, the longer limb of which passes into the latter. The receiver is plunged into a glass cylinder containing cold water. The object of this arrangement is to increase the space occupied by the phosphorescence. In the course of the operation the phosphorescence appears first in and on the surface of the liquor operated on ; as the temperature rises it fills the whole flask, then passes into the conducting tube, and finally becomes visible either as a column or ring in the tube, or as a luminous cloud in the receiver, its appearance varying according to the rapidity with which the distillation is carried on. The author has made numerous researches, showing that none of the tissues or albuminous compounds yield any indications of phosphorus when treated by Mitscherlich's method. SciiEREH.—On the Detection and Determination of Phosphorus and Phosphorous Acid in Poisoning. Ann. d. Chem. U. Pharm., vol. cxii, p. 214, Nov., 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 295. Scheicr had the opportunity in his official position of observing numerous cases of poisoning by phosphorus in domestic animals, and some in man, two of which were fatal. lie employs for detection the process of Mitscherlich, with this important modification, that he intro- duces into the flask containing the suspected liquids before heating it sulphuric acid, and a little bit of carbonate of lime, and further causes the distillation-tube to open under distilled water contained in a second flask. The result is, of course, that the whole apparatus is full of carbonic