81 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. modified) conducted by the unbroken column of air to the ultimate bron- chial twi^s. 5th. That the restriction of the sound to inspiration (excess of inspiratory over expiratory sound) depends mainly on convection, but probably also in part on the great amount of air-and-wall friction pro- duced by the impact of the air at the points where the tubes divaricate. H. C. L. Barkow.—On Congenital Hyperoxidation of the Blood. In den Beitr'agen zur pathol. Entwicklungsgeschiehte, Abtheil. iii, Breslaw, 1859, fol. 5, p. 46. Canst., vol. i, p. 39. In a man about forty or fifty years of age, the author observed the left innmninate vein, after receiving the large superior left pulmonary vein, divide into the left internal jugular and subclavian. The right pulmo- nary veins opened normally into the left auricle, as did also the left in- ferior pulmonary vein. In this case oxygenated blood mingled with the dark blood from the right side of the heart, yet, as the greater portion of the blood held a normal course, life was not imperilled by the ab- normal arrangement. In the case of a new-born child, the left auricle received no pulmonary veins, the left common pulmonary vein joining the left innominate, and the right one coursing outside the pericardium to join a left pulmonary, and finally be lost in the common pulmonary vein. Here the overloading of the right heart with blood caused dilatation of the foramen ovale and ductus Botalli. But as a great deal of the arterial blood reached the vena cava, and so regained the respiratory apparatus, the " hyperoxidised" blood, according to the author, soon became incapa- ble of sustaining life. Aem. Knaut.—On the so-called Vital Contractility of the Lungs after Irritation of the Vagi. Dorpat, 1859, Svo. Canst., vol. i, p. 104. Experiments on a pup, and on cats and rabbits, proved the contrac- tility of the pulmonary tissue, and its dependence on the vagi. The assumption that electric irritation of the vagi relaxes the muscular fibres of the lung is refuted by the author. Irritability of the pulmonary tissue disappears very soon after death, so that frequently no positive results are to be obtained with a manometer in the larynx, unless the operation be immediately performed. The elastic pressure seems, on an average, to bear the relation of 3 : 2 to the contractile pressure. (Budge.— On the Influence of Irritation of the Vagus Nerve on Respi- ration. Virchow's Arch., vol. xvi, p. 433. Canst., vol. i, p. 104. The experiments were performed in order to ascertain whether the •pause in the respiration which occurs when the vagi are galvanized hap- 8pens during inspiration or during expiration. 1. Weak or strong I excitation of the central portion of a vagus nerve always leads to :ian expiratory movement, though in many instances this is preceded by 'inspiration. The latter is less than natural, whilst the former is greater. 12. The degree of irritation determines whether respiration shall cease ior continue. If it continues, the inspirations always diminish in depth. 'Budge assumes that there are two centres of respiration in the medulla 1 oblongata—one governing the inspiratory nerves, the other, which might ibe called centrum nervorum vagorum, presiding over expiration. They ^levelop opposite forces. 3. If the pueumogastric-centre, or the central G