454 REPOET ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. the ethereal solution on evaporation, yielded a yellowish residue whik Mas treated with a drop of concentrated sulphuric acid, and allowed t! and »„ a warm place for three days. TheWkeled wSTlSS dissolved m water coining a trace of ammonia, and treated whl eK Motaboa of the residue obtained on evaporation W^.SS toa iS ^•T?' uben -he PrPle'blue col°"1- ™» obtained, which]*S ractenstic ot the action of nascent oxygen on strychnia 1n tl.J \,M ?£FiIrZ t[VM' DOt/aken »'coM • Zi.ion wereMo| tamed in the watery extract of a compound of zinc; and by submitting he residue, insoluble both in water and alcohol, to hvdrociI3?3dI 2 solution was obtained which gave traces of a mercurial salt. The ri'n^ afforded, by a similar method, very distinct indications of the presence of strychnia. It was elicited at the inquest that the deceased had bought! iSSSt f f • i 'I*™0-™**'' day before her death, which she ha probably taken with the intent to commit suicide. Kukzak. Tannin as an Antidote to Strychnia. Wien. Ztsch.,N.F vol iii part 2, i860. ' " From twelve experiments the author arrives at the following results • lann.n is a chemical antidote to strychnine. The precipitate obtained byi the addition of tannin to solutions of strychnine is insoluble in the juices ot the stomach. The experiments give reason for anticipating that if administered m cases of poisoning, tannin would prove protective even if no vomiting should occur. In order to be effectual the tannin must be given in the proportion of 20 or 25 to 1. Any substance containing tannin may be administered. Of the best Turkey galls, one drachm at Jeast, ought to be given in powder. Tea has a very inconsi- derable action on strychnine, but coffee is somewhat more effectual. Coffee contains from 3} to 5 per cent, of tannin, but the decoction contains a very inconsiderable quantity, and its action as an antidote is accordingly feeble. Oak bark, the barks of the horse-chestnut or willow, the green shells of the walnut, and acorns are suggested as containing much tannin and likely to be at hand. Jenkins.—On the Defection of Strychnine'and other Proximate Prin- ciples. Chem. News, Oct. 6th. OsBOUN. —Poisoning by Strychnia. Med. Gaz., July 14th. In this case, that of a girl who took strychnia for the purpose of sui- cide, the chloroform process of Rogers and Girdwood afforded satisfactory evidence of the presence of strychnia in the contents of the stomach and duodenum and in the liver. Dr. Osborn, however, found it more conve- nient and effectual to substitute acetic acid as a solvent, for hydrochloric or sulphuric, on account of the large quantity of colouring matter taken lip by these acids. Lbthebt,—On the Chemical Reactions of Strychnia. Chem. News, Juue 9th. A resume of former papers. Death of a Child from Strychnia. Pharm. Journ., July, i860. A child, set. 11, the daughter of a druggist, took from curiosity a poi- sonous dose of strychnia.