11EP0KT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Imbeut-Goukijkyue.— Memoir on Acute Hypertrophy of the Heart. Gaz. Med. de Paris, 50, 51—1858. Oansfc Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 232. Imbert-Gourbeyre states that acute hypertrophy of the heart is almost exclusively a result of the acute form of M. Br. FOBGET,—On Aneurism of the Left Heart consecutive to Aneurism of the liight Heart. L'Union Meu., No. 101, 1859. Forget observed 2 cases in which (there being no valvular defect) he believes that hypertrophy of the right side was induced by vis a forgo hypertrophy of the left. Nicolis.—Gazz. Med, Ital., Stati Sardi, No. 6, 1839. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 234. In a new-born child the heart was observed to be situated in the epigastrium, and through the thin skin the fissure between the ven- tricles, that between the auricles, and the systolic and diastolic move- ments of both ventricles and auricles were perceptible. Klob.—Thrombosis of the Duct of Botal. Zeitschr. d. k. k. Gescllchaft der Aerzte zu Wien, No. 1, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 236. Rauciifuss.—Thrombosis of Duct. Arter. Virch. Arcliiv., 17 Vol. 1859, p. 376—474. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 236. Klob and Rauciifuss both record autopsies of infants in whom, along with fibrinous plugs of the duct, there were found similar formations in various arteries, the mesenteric, renal, and pulmonary, or hemorrhagic infarctions of the lungs. Thungel.— 'Reports from the General Hospital at Hamburg. Virch. Archiv., 16 Vol. 1859, p. 356. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 236, 247. Thungel gives a case of (1) Plugging of the basilar artery with red softening of the cerebellum: (2) Plugging of the basilar artery, red softening of the right crus cerebri and pons varolii: (3) Repeated apoplectic attacks, plugging of the left axillary artery, and stenosis of the bicuspid orifice : (4) Old excrescence of the mitral valve, scarlatina, plugging of the left femoral artery: (5) Inflammation and laceration of the pulmonary valves, emboli in the puhnon. arteries: (6) Thrombosis of the gastro-epiploic artery. He also gives a case of rupture of the aorta ; and of the uniting branch of the art. of the corp. callos. Charcot and Ball.—On sudden Heath and speedy Death occurring as the result of obturation of the Pulmon. Artery by coagula of Blood, in Cases of Phlegmas. Alb. Hoi. and of obstructive Phlebitis in (jeneral. Gaz. Ilebdom. 49, 1858. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 237. ' The authors state that of 12 cases of obstruction of the principal divisions of the pulmon. artery consecutive on obstruction of some vein, death ensued suddenly in 2; some minutes after the supervention of the dyspnoea in 2; in 2 also after \ hour; in 4 after some hours, and in 2 oidy after some days. They record one case probably of the same kind where recovery took place.