110 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. and of a yellowish-brown colour. Ten pounds of lentil-meal yielded two pounds of legumin. The legumin, when mixed with chromnte of potash and sulphuric acid, and distilled, yielded hydrocyanic, formic, acetic, propionic, butyric, valerianic, caproic, and benzoic acids, &c. SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. E. Baudrimont.—Chemical Composition of Hair. Journ. des Connaiss. Med., No. 24, p. 328. A. BeghAMP.—Researches on the Products obtained from the Oxidation of Albuminous Substances with the Permanganate of Potash. Annal. de Chem. et de Phys., vol. lvii, p. 291. F. Pouchet.—Researches on the Substances introduced by the Air into the Respiratory Qryans of Animals. Compt. Rend., p. 1121, 18th June, i860. GlBB.—On the Laryngoscope: its Value in Healthy and Diseased Conditions of the Throat and Windpipe. Lancet, 29th September, p. 307. (This article consists of a description of Czermak's experiments.) Fonssagrives.—On the Artificial Illumination of the Cavities of the Body by means of Luminous Tubes. Compt. Rend., 23d January, i860, p. 185. For the examination of the fauces, of the uterus, of the nasal cavity, &c, Fonssagrives proposes the employment of the electric light in the empty tubes of Geissler. The advantages of this light consists in its brightness, and more especially its not giving off any heat. Dr. John Ogle.—On the Use of the Ophthalmoscope as a Help to the Diagnosis in Diseases of the Nervous System. Med. Times and Gaz., 9th June, p. 572. Ogle remarks that the condition of the deeply seated and delicate vessels of the eye-ball may be, to a certain extent, a criterion of the state of the cerebral vessels ; and that, therefore, the ophthalmoscope might prove of service in the diagnosis of brain disease. He cites several cases in which he found it useful; and concludes by saying, that in some cases its applica- tion might be instrumental in diagnosing between giddiness and other symptoms proceeding from actual organic change and the same symp- toms arising from disturbance in other distant parts, as in the digestive organs, and, therefore, strictly sympathetic in character. Again, it may prove useful when it is doubtful whether such and such symptoms are owing to repletion or to defective and even sinking powers, just as the state of the fontanelles is looked upon as being a useful guide in such doubtful instances. Bkown-Skquard.—Hereditary Transmission of an Epileptiform Affection accidentally produced. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 38, p. 297. For several years, Brown-Scquard has frequently observed that the young of a number of epileptic guinea-pigs, which he kept in his la- boratory, were at times attacked with epileptiform convulsions. For many months he had made observations on this subject, and had ascer- tained that six young guinea-pigs, which had frequent attacks of con-