AIR-PASSAGES. 299 3. Wounds. JOHNSON, H. C.—Case of Wound Penetrating the Larynx in an Attempt at Suicide, with Detachment of a Piece of the Thyroid Cartilage ; Recovery. Lancet, Feb. u, p. 139. Curling.—Case of Wound of the Thyroid Cartilage, Wounding the Epiglottis, Inflicted by a Table-knife. Lancet, Feb. II, p. 140. Hawkins, Cesar.—Case of Wound of the Neck, and Injury to the Thyroid Cartilage, in an Attempt at Suicide ; Death from Frac- tured Ribs. Lancet, Feb. 11, p. 139. Cavasse.—Essay on Fractures of the Cartilages of the Larynx. (Thesis.) Paris, i860. 4. Tracheotomy, (a) In Croup. Bryant, Thos.—On the Surgical Diseases and Injuries of the Nose, Larynx, Thorax and its Contents, and of the Organs of Circulation. Guy's Hospital Reports, p. 1. Trousseau, A.—Tracheotomy. Ciinique Medicale de l'Hotel-Dieu de Paris, vol. i, p. 414. Paris, Bailliere, i860. In some clinical remarks on tracheotomy in diphtheria, Trousseau strongly insists on the necessity of operating slowly, dividing the tissues layer by layer, holding aside the vessels and muscles -with blunt hooks, and thoroughly exposing the trachea before opening it. He had never seen an accident caused by too great slowness, but had often witnessed the difficulties and dangers of a hasty tracheotomy, even when performed by a skilful operator. He uses the double canula, and places a piece of waxed silk or caoutchouc between its shield and the skin. Immediately after the operation, and for the first four days afterwards, the wound should be thoroughly pencilled with lunar caustic (this practice is par- ticularly insisted on), to prevent the diphtheritic infection of the wound, the formation of stinking, false membranes, erysipelas, and gangrene. Evans, Dr. C.—On Tracheotomy in Croup. Edin. Monthly Jour., January and May, and Proceedings of the Roy. Med. and Chir. Soc, vol. iii, No. ii, p. 108. The author notices the frequency and fatality of croup as a disease of early life, and points out the slight success which has hitherto attended the usual modes of treating it. He considers the principal objections which have been urged against tracheotomy, and strongly insists upon the> propriety of having recourse to it early in the disease. Spence, Jas.—Cases of Tracheotomy in Croup, tvith Clinical Remarks. Edin. Med. Jour., Feb., p. 693. (b) For Cancroid Growths. Budd, Dr.— Warty Growths in the Larynx, threatening Suffocation, in a Pregnant Woman ; Tracheotomy ; Death in Fourteen Hours ; In- effectual Labour in the interval ; Post-mortem Caxariotomy, Lancet April 21, p. 393.