KKl'OliT ON THE INSTITI TKS OF MKMCINE. 11 twenty grains to the ounce of water). These solutions induced the same facial movements in the infant, and even in the premature infant of the seventh month, as in the adult. From this the author concludes that the sense of taste exists in a perfect state at the moment of birth ; but he, of course, at the same time allows that it afterwards becomes modified by experience. The feeling of nausea, which, according to Stich, is a mus- cular sensation, is also well developed in the infant. 2. Feeling. The lips are acutely sensitive, the slightest touch inducing sucking movements. The mucous membrane of the nose 1 and of the tongue is equally sensitive to external impressions. In the palm of the band and sole of the foot, and, indeed, in the external surface of the body in general, the sense of feeling is fully developed. New-born children are exceedingly sensible to the effects of beat and cold. 3. Smelling. From experiments made on sleeping children, the author is convinced that even those born at the eighth month possess this sense in an uncomfortably high degree. It soon, however, becomes blunted. 4. Seeing. Even within the first hour after birth the pupil is sensible to light. 5. Hearing. Of all the senses this is the least developed in the new- born child. Even for several days after birth, children pay little or no attention to noises. As regards the feeling of pain, Kussmaul remarks that, in all probability, the cries of the new-born child arise from the painful sensation of cold. Dazzling light, loud noises, disagreeable tastes, and bad smells do not cause it to cry. Hunger and thirst are felt, he says, by children a few hours after birth ; and the want of air is experienced as soon as their connection with the mother's circulation is severed. Has a new-born babe intelligence 1 This is a question that our author has tried to. solve, and the results of his experiments have led him to conclude, that not only at the time of birth, but even while still in the mother's womb, the child possesses a perfectly developed sensorium and a complete motory apparatus, the uses of which it has begun to learn before its expulsion from the uterus. Man, he thinks, is born with a know- ledge, although imperfect, of the external world, recognises space, localizes feeling, and regulates his movements accordingly. The perfecting of his intelligence, however, depends on his powers of seeing, hearing, tasting, smelling, and feeling, as well as on the circumstances and con- ditions with which he is in future surrounded. Budge.—On the Functions of the Cceliac and Mesenteric Plexuses. Nova Acta Acad. Ctcs. Leop.-Car. Nat. Cur., xix, p. 257, i860. In this communication the author details the results of bis experiments on the effects of extirpation of the ganglia iu rabbits. The animals usually died within twenty-four hours ; one or two, however, lived three days. The effects observed are softening of the fecal pellets; so much so, that none of the ordinary rounded masses are to be found in the rectum. The feces are perfectly pulpy; and, within a very hours after the operation, arc covered over with a slimy mucus. The secretion of mucus occurs, even in the absence of feces, to a very great extent. Budge thinks that the movements of the great intestine arc much 1 in the premature infant the mucous membrane of the nose is very slightly sensitive.