OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 19 the auditory meatus, the glenoid cavity, and the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. The external ear was small, misshapen, and placed considerably in advance of its normal position. The corresponding side of the lower half of the face was much flattened, and the chin receded so ns to give to the countenance somewhat of an idiotic expression. LARCHER.—On the Intermaxillary Bones of Man. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii, p. 46. , Rousseau having lately presented a paper to the Academy, in which he states that all animals, with the exception of man, have intermaxillary bones, Larcher, in the above communication, points out the error of making man an exception to the rule. If, he says, a human foetus be examined sufficiently early, the existence of these bones can be easily demonstrated ; it will also be found that they very soon become united to the maxillaries, and leave no trace of their ever having had an independent existence. Rousseau makes some remarks on this communication at page 176 of the same volume, while at page 260 will be found some further observations on the same subject by M. Larcher. J. W. Hulke.—On the Tissue which intervenes betioeen Articular Cartilage and Bone. Med. Times and Gaz., 21st July, p. 69. Hullce, in exhibiting several specimens and drawings to the Pathological Society, said that his observations confirmed those of Messrs. Tomes and De Morgan. The thickness of the articular lamella varies from 1-28U1 of an inch to i-43ooth. Its upper border joining the cartilage has a notched outline, the depressions corresponding to the alveoli which receive the columns of cartilage-cells, the projections representing the portions between neighbouring alveoli. Its deep-bounding line is very sinuous, and off-shoots of the lamella sink so deeply into the true bony tissue, that in vertical sections small portions are occasionally found completely insulated. The component elements of the lamella are a matrix, and certain black objects of considerable size, occurring singly or grouped, imbedded in it. The matrix is either glassy or granular, the granules are fine or coarse, and frequently crowded so as to form alternating strata of light and dark bands. The addition of dilute hydrochloric acid to a thin section causes effervescence, the granules disappear, the matrix becomes clear and regains the natural elasticity of articular cartilage; at the same time it becomes apparent that the large, black objects in the matrix are cartilage-corpuscles enclosing clusters of secondary cells. By soaking in ether these cells and their nuclei are rendered very conspicuous. Turpen- tine, glycerine, and some other highly refracting fluids, also bring the cells into view. From these, he says, it appears that the articular lamella is only a layer of cartilage retaining its anatomical characters, but hardened by impregnation with earthy matter, and it might be expected that before its petrifaction it would be liable to those changes which are common to the matrix of other hyaline cartilages. A. FniEDLEBEN.—Contributions to the Chemical Constitution of Carti- laginous Tissue. Siebold's u. Kolliker's Zeitschr. f. Wissensch. Zool., vol. x, p. 20. Canst., vol. i, p. 73. The author finds that the reaction of the extract obtained from the cartilage which precedes bone-formation, differs from that of true bone-