VASCULAR SYSTEM. 29 Won and intensity of the electric current. (3) Death readily occurs from electric excitement of the heart's substance. It is brought about by the diminished pressure and velocity of the blood. (4) Previous irritation of the vagus lessens the effects of direct excitement on the heart. (5) If both nerve and heart be simultaneously galvanized, the result lies midway between those of the separate irritations. (6) When the heart is excited after the vagi, the pulse is less accelerated, and the pressure of blood less diminished. (7) Tremor of the heart-substance remains after direct irritation, but can be arrested by galvanizing the vagus. (8) The con- ditions induced by direct irritation of the heart and excitement of the vagus respectively are perfectly opposed to each other in relation to cardiac movements. (9) With a continuous electric current, the pulse quickens, and the lateral pressure in the carotid increases with the inten- sification of the current. (10) At length it attains a maximum, from which it again diminishes as the intensity of the current increases, till at last the heart pauses in diastole, and death ensues. (11) Genuine teta- nus of the heart occiu-s neither with the continuous nor with the inter- rupted current. Einbrodt.— On the Influence of the Vagi on the Heart's Movements in Birds, lleichert's u. Du Bois's Arch., 1859. Canst., vol. i, p. 105. In birds, as in quadrupeds, the heart's action is stopped when galvanism is applied to the vagus. The pause lasts longer when both vagi are acted upon, and is in some measure proportional to the intensity of the electric current. The heart's pause generally lasts from five to ten seconds, very rarely half a minute. After the galvanized part of the nerve has become too much injured any longer to convey the stimulus, by shifting the poles of the battery a little lower down the effects on the heart are immediately renewed. On the renewal of the heart's action during the galvanism, the pul- sations are at first few and feeble, they then slowly increase in number and in strength, but never become so frequent as normal. Division of one or both vagi in birds increases the frequency of the pulse, but less so than in mammalia. Bernard.—Vaso-motor Influence of the Sympathetic Nerve. La Clin. Europ., 1859, No. 29, p. 282. When a manometer was inserted into the right coronary artery of the lip of a horse, and a second instrument put into the left vessel of the same animal, both instruments showed a pressure of 160 to 180 mm. The pressure of the blood increased 40 mm. on the left side after division of the corresponding cervical sympathetic. In the coronary veins of the lips the instruments showed a pressure of 30 to 40 mm., which increased to 50 or 60 after section of the sympathetic, while the pressure a°-ain fell 20 mm. when the nerve was galvanized. As other effects of the division of the nerve, were noticed pulsation of the veins and brighter colour of the venous blood. Mierswa.—On the Mechanism of the Semilunar Valves. Schmidt, vol. 104, p. 158. The author adopted the method of Eiidinger, and obtained similar results. His conclusions are—(1) That the semilunar valves are not applied against the walls of the sinuses of Valsalva during the systole.