355 OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. attempted without chloroform in forty-two. His practice and its results are detailed in the following words:—"My hand has entered the uterus in every instance. In a few cases I deemed it advisable not to make the effort to turn ; in three I failed, though I made the effort. The mothers all recovered ; one child died before I completed the delivery, I broke the arm of one, and slightly contused the arms of three." His practice is to defer the operation until the pains occur at intervals of eight minutes, and the os dilates to the diameter of a florin. Certain precautionary measures having been taken, and chloroform administered (the latter only when the patient interposes no objection), the right hand is introduced into the vagina, and then into the uterus between the posterior lip of the os and the membranes, the palmar surface of the hand at this time look- ing forwards. The head is now tilted upwards and forwards, and the feet sought for through the membranes. When the feet are both found, they are seized, and simultaneously the membranes ruptured. The feet and nates are forthwith extracted, the alteration of the presentation and the extraction of the lower extremities and nates being simultaneous. When the dorsum of the child is turned backwards, rotation is to be per- formed, if the patient be under chloroform. With regard to the latest period at which recourse can be had to version, it may be performed as long as the os uteri can be felt in its whole circumference by examina- tion with the index finger. With reference to the actual number of cases treated by the author on his system, he states that he has a memorandum of 317 cases, extend- ing over a period of twelve years, and that during the past year he has only lost one infant. Dr. Dill.—On Turning in Labour when the Pelvis is Contracted. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Feb. 1st, i860, p. 46. Fordyce Barker.—Malposition of the Foetus Detected by External Manipulation during Labour. Cephalic Version by the same means successful. Amer. Med. Times, June 2d, i860. Robekt Jones.— Turning as a Substitute for the Forceps, in cases of Narrow Pelvis. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 14th, i860, p. 30. Ccesarean Section. Prof. E. Martin.—On the Ccesarean Section. Mon. f. Geb., Jan. i860, p. 8. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 306. The statistics of the Cesarean section do not faithfully represent the mortality due simply to the operation itself. But for this, the statistics would, Martin believes, appear more favorable. _ As regards the management of the operation, the woman must be kept in good spirits; the operation must be performed when the uterine con- tractions are strong, in order to ensure effective contraction afterwards. The precise seat of the incision is less important than the securing the adapta- tion of the external to the internal wound. The incision must be sufficient not less than 5 inches long. It is irrational to give opium in all cases after the operation. Bleeding is often useful 5 the external use of ice is not always advantageous, internally it is very useful when there is vomiting • clysters for the bowels, and the catheter for the bladder, are necessary In the