321 SYPHILIS. Meade, It. H.—On Inflammation and Abscess of the Prostate Gland. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 20th, p. 372. Four cases of this affection are here described by Meade, who wishes to show the expediency of evacuating the matter by incising the prostate through the rectum. Oesterreiciier, Dr.— On Diseases of the Prostate, and their Treatment at Carlsbad. Wien. Ztschr., N. F. iii, 7, i860. Schmidt, No. 6, p. 323. • > From a retrospect of ninety cases of prostatic disease, Oesterreicber adopts the annexed five groups, with reference to tbeir most important symptoms. All begin with a constant, dull sensation of a foreign body in the situation of the prostate, which is increased by laborious defecation, long sitting, driving and riding, &c. This sensation finally becomes an acute pain, the evacuation of the bladder is attended with tenesmus, and swelling of the testis, spermatic cord, corp. cavern, and haemorrhoids. Group I. Chronic inflammation or swelling of the prostate, with more or less general affection of the urinary organs, and remains of former syphilis. Group II. The same state of the prostate, complicated with stone in the kidney and bladder. Group III. The same prostatic affection, associated with urethral catarrh, inflammation, and stricture. Group IV. Prostatic swelling coexistent with chronic irritation of the seminal organs. Group V, and chief group. Simple chronic inflammation or hypertrophy of the prostate. Oesterreicher's treatment consisted mainly in a copious use of the mineral spring. SYPHILIS. 1. Text-books, Manuals, Treatises, fyc. Hceser, H.—Manual of the History of Medicine, and of Epidemic Diseases. Vol. ii, part 1. Jena, F. Mancke, 1859, PP- 184—296. The history of syphilis in the middle ages. Acton, Wm.—A Practical Treatise on Diseases of the Urinary and Generative Organs of both Sexes, including Syphilis. 3d edit., 8vo. London, Churchill. Parker, Langston.—On Syphilitic Diseases. London, John Churchill i860. ' The fourth edition, entirely rewritten, with numerous additions. Dartnell, R. G.—On the Prevalence and Severity of Syphilis in the British Army, and its Prevention. Brit. Med. Journ., April 28th P-3I7- The establishment of lock hospitals in garrisons and camps is recom- mended. The inefficiency of the customary "health inspection" to the detection of chancre also is pointed out. V. ITiiBBENET, C—Observation and Experiment in Syphilis; Contri- butions to the Pathology of this Disease. With 5 plates. Leipzig H. Ilaessel, 1859. v °' 21