221 KESriRATORY SYSTEM. regular uncomplicated pleurisy, which always admits of cure, occupies the left side of the chest, and believes that in 95 cases out of 100 right- sided pleurisy indicates the existence of tubercle. Dkasciie.—On the relation and the prognostic import of Hopes in Pneumonia. Oester. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk., 1859, 50. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 314. In 100 patients Drasche observed a mortality among the one-sided pneumonias of 19 per cent, where there was no herpes, and 3-2 per cent, when herpes existed. In double pneumonias 25 per cent, died who had herpes, and 20 per cent, who had none. Lussana.—Angina pectoris; its relations and analogies with Thoracico- brachial Neuralgia, as well as its points of difference. Gaz. Lomb. 46-48, 1858 ; 9-13, 15-18, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 306. From the relation of a well-marked fatal case with autopsy F. proceeds to a detailed examination of his subject. He describes the anatomical disposition of the nerves which he considers to be primarily and secondarily concerned, and traces the production of the various sympathetic and consensual phenomena depending on them irritation. His conclusion is that angina pectoris may be dynamic or organic; in most cases it is organic, especially resulting from a mechanical mutation, caused by a calcareous degeneration of the coronary arteries of the heart, or some similar cause acting on the cardiac plexuses. He regards it, therefore, as essentially a neuralgia, and believes that it proves fatal by cramp-like contraction of the heart when death occurs during an attack, or by paralysis of the heart when death occurs in an interval after repeated attacks. The characters of dynamic Angina pectoris are that it occurs mostly in early life, affects equally males and females, and yields readily to narcotics ; in all these points it differs from organic. Millet.—On Kermcs and Digitalis in the treatment of Pneumonia, admin- istered in gradually increasing doses. Bullet, de Therap. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 55. Mulct gives to adults gr.| of each drug every hour for the first day, and increases the dose daily until on the 9th day the patient takes gr.f. Improvement generally is marked by the 6th or 8th day, when the circulation is evidently aiTected by the digitalis. The remedies are to be continued for some time, not to be abruptly omitted. If delirium and ataxic symptoms appear, he gives musk and camphor. This method has proved very successful with patients of all ages, both the very young and old. Among 87 cases of children there occurred but one death, although 53 were very grave, attended with marked delirium and adynamia. Millet almost entirely eschews bloodletting. Waters— Observations on the morbid anatomy, pathology, and determining cause of Emphysema of the Lungs. Brit. Med. J., Nov 24th Dec. 8th, 15th. ^ ' After a statement of Lacnnec and Gairdner's views, on the in- and