POISONS AND POISONING. 457 Chevallier.—Poisoning by Belladonna in Coffee containing Chicory. Journ. de Chem. Med., 1860, p. 239. Lopez.—Opium as an Antidote to Belladonna. Amcr. Med.-Clnr. Rev. vol. iv, p. 285. Magxe.— Poisoning by Solanum Nigrum. Journ. de Chem. April, p. 206. Lowenstjsin.—Poisoning by the Seeds of Datura Stramonium. Med. Ztg. Rnsslands, No. 9, i860. Beigel.—Poisoning by the Root of the Conium Maculatum. Recovery. Wien. Med. Wchnschr, No. 52. Fonsius.— On Poisoning by Nicotine. Helsingfors, 1859. Diss. Inaug. Pellarin.—Poisoning by Nux Vomica. Ann. d'Hyg. vol. xiv, p. 431. Walchner.—The Arrow Poison of the Indians. Ungar. Ztschr., vol. xi, pp. 49, 50. 10. Other Vegetable Poisons. Poisoning by Lobelia. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 13th. A herbalist was tried at Bedford in 1859 on a charge of manslaughter, for selling a vegetable infusion to a poor woman, who administered it for Beveral days to her child, set. 2. Dr. H. Barker proved that the bottle contained a brown liquid, of which the sediment was found to consist, on microscopical examination, of the seeds of lobelia inflata. The child died, and, on post-mortem examination, the body was found to be healthy, with the exception of impletion of the cerebral vessels, redness, injection, and corrugations of the stomach and duodenum, general fluidity of the blood, irritation of the urinary passages, all of which appearances accorded with the inference that death was attributable to a narcotico-irritant poison. The herbalist was acquitted. Schroff.—On the Poisonous Action* of Taxus Baccata. Wien. Ztsch., N. F., vol. ii, No. 31. Canst., vol. v, p. 94. Schroff's experiments relate to the alcoholic extract of the berries, and the alcoholic, ethereal, and watery extract of the leaves, and their several actions on man and animals (rabbits). His results are as follows :—The berries have no poisonous action. The leaves contain an acrid and a nar- cotic principle. Both of these are taken up much more readily by ether and alcohol than by water. To the irritant action of the drug are refer- able gastro-enteritis, and acceleration of the action of the heart and of the respiration. Its narcotic action manifests itself, in small doses, by heaviness of the head, giddiness, and incapability of mental occupation ; after large doses, by restlessness, sleeplessness or drowsiness, dizziness', vertigo, dilatation of the pupil, and, in the later stage, retardation of the heart-beat and respiration. In fatal cases in the human subject, death occurs, although suddenly and unexpectedly, in a tranquil manner, by way of collapse; but, in rabbits, is sometimes preceded by violent convul- sions. One gramme of the ethereal extract was fatal to a rabbit in \\ hour, but 2—4 grammes of the alcoholic extract were not fatal till several hours. Kurzak.—The Poisonous Actions of Oleander. Wien. Zeitsch. N F vol. ii, Nos. 44, 50, 51. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 38.