VASCULAR SYSTEM. 31 it follows that the minimum period required for the blood's circuit in mammals is only three and three quarter seconds. The result of these inquiries proves that one common plan presides over the circulation in the mammalia. The proportion of blood, and the rela- tive quantity thrown out of the heart at each ventricular systole, arc everywhere'the same, so that the frequency of the heart's action deter- mines the period required for the circulation of the blood through the system. H. Meyer.—On the Influence of the Nerves upon the Colour of the Venous Blood. Reichert's u. Du Bois's Arch., 1859, P- 2o6> Cansfc-> vol. i, p. 107. In the cutaneous veins of the hind legs of two rabbits the blood, some time after division of the sciatic nerves, became bright red, and continued so five or seven days. In three rabbits the blood of the carotid became darker, or contained streaks of dark blood, after division of both vagi. Meyer's view is, that the paralytic dilatation of the vessels gives passage to so much blood that it cannot be all properly changed in the capil- laries. Schelske.—The Action of Heat upon the Heart. Verh. d. naturh. med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, vol. ii, p. 26, i860. I. At a temperature of from 280 to 350 C, the pulsations of a healthy frog's heart are at first increased, and then arrested. 2. The action of the ventricles ceases before that of the auricles. 3. At a temperature of 10° or 15° C, the pulsations are normal. 4. If the heart be exposed to a temperature of o° C, its action is quickened, but only for a short time. 5. Cold stops its action much sooner than heat. If, after the action of the heart has ceased from the effects of heat, the vagi be stimulated by galvanism, muscular contraction is induced ; and if an induction-current be kept up, the heart is thrown into a kind of tetanic spasm. E. Wagner.—On a Case of True or Primary Softe?iitiff of the Heart. Archiv d. Heilk., i860, p. 185. On making the post-mortem examination of a child sixteen days old, whose mother died of puerperal fever, Wagner found the heart in a very peculiar condition. The pericardium was normal. The heart was flabby"; botli ventricles were of about the same thickness, and contained a small quantity of coagulated blood. The left ventricle wa3 so soft that, on attempting to open it, it broke in pieces, aud became a pulpy mass. The right ventricle was in a similar, or even softer, condition, but the auricle was normal. On putting some of the muscular tissue of the left ventricle under the microscope, it fell to pieces so readily that it did not require to be teased out; fragments of muscular fibres were seen, resembling the smooth, spindle-shaped cells of involuntary muscle. They possessed no strife, and were, for the most part, nucleated. Free cells and granule's were also observed, but no fat-globules. The sarcolemma was, in some parts, thickened and (Edematous. The substance of the right ven- tricle had a somewhat similar appearance to that fouud in the left. No striated fihres were anywhere to be seen. The upper part of the right lung was emphysematous, and the left pleural cavity contained a quan- tity of bloody, purulent fluid, compressing the lung. Wagner remarks