DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 87 by the body in any given time, an immediate diminution in weight is the result. Consequently, if we desire to increase the strength of a man, or augment the bulk of any other animal, it is not sufficient merely to increase once for all the daily quantity of food taken ; for no sooner does the volume of the body increase, than it requires a proportional and pro- gressive augmentation of nutritive material, in order to keep it increasing. At first, the increase in weight is rapid, but gradually, as the animal approaches its maximum of size, the daily amount becomes proportionally less, even in spite of a progressive augmentation of food. This arises from the animal being unable to assimilate the immense quantity of food that has become necessary to produce the increase. The degree of the transformation of azotized tissues does not solely depend on the relative quantity of such matters in the body, for it is, to some extent, regulated by the amount of fat. When, for example, an animal poor in fat, but rich in muscle, is starved, the oxygen inspired acts chiefly upon the azotized tissues. Whereas, if the animal be poor in muscle, but rich in fat, the oxygen combines freely with the latter, causing scarcely any transformation to take place in the former. It is a well-known fact that fat men and other animals, when not required to make any violent muscular exertion, support fasting very much better than lean individuals. It is their fat, the author says, which hinders the unnecessary transformation of the azotized constituents of the frame. The same changes that occur in starved animals also take place in those that are insufficiently nourished. A fat animal requires less food than a lean one, in order to exert a given amount of power. In the former the fat prevents the decomposition of the muscles, whereas in the latter the decomposition is very considerable, and consequently a greater amount of azotized materials is required for its repair. At the same time it must be admitted that the fat animal loses some of its adipose tissue. See also Bischoff's work on the 'Laws of Nutrition in Carnivorous Animals.' Leipsic, i860. LIVEE. Prof. E. Wagner.— Contribution to the Normal Structure of the Liver, Archiv d. Heilk., vol. 1, part 3, p. aji, i860. For information on the course of the bile-ducts, see a paper by Prof. Jul. Budge, in the Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., 1859, p. 642. Dr. R. M'Donnell.—On the Formation of Sugar and Amyloid Sub- stance in the Animal Economy. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., May 15th, p. 14c I he author puts the question—Is the liver endowed with the power of converting amyloid substance into sugar during life, and health? In order to elucidate this question, he withdrew, by means of a catheter blood from the right side of the heart in the living animal, and the results were— 1st. In twelve experiments made on dogs, for some weeks before fed exclusively on meat, traces of sugar were found in the blood in five ; there was no sugar found in the blood of the remaining seven. 2d. In four rabbits, fed on boiled eggs, meat, and butter, for some davs no sugar was detected in the blood drawn from the right side of the 3d. In three dogs, fed on mixed diet, and three rabbits, fed on carrots,