125 SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. following out these experiments, the author did not consider that any substance was incapable of being acted upon by ozone until the experi- ment had been continued during many hours with negative results. (1) Urea: ozone acts as little upon it as any other oxidizing agent. (2) Uric acid is rapidly acted upon hy ozone, and becomes soluble in water. On the water being carefully evaporated, yellow prismatic crystals are obtained, resembling allautoin. They are more soluble in hot than in cold water, and with their solution nitrate of silver gives a precipitate which, when examined under the microscope, is seen to consist of little halls. By decomposing the silver compound with sulphuric acid, and recrystallising it from hot alcohol, pure white crystals are obtained. By evaporating the fluid from which the crystals of allantoin separated, a considerable quantity of urea is likewise obtained. (3) Allantoin is not acted upon by ozoue, neither (4) is alloxan (5) nor creatin. Ozone acts, however, on (6) creatinin. The solution loses its alkaline reaction, becomes acid, and contains creatin. (7) Leucin is not acted upon, or at least but very slightly. (8) A clear solution of albumen, when exposed to a current of ozone, becomes muddy, and appears reddish by direct, greenish yellow by trans- mitted light. At the same time, flocculi appear in the solution, which have a strong resemblance to fibrin, although they are not soluble in nitric acid. The formation of these coagula ceases after a time, and shortly afterwards even those formed begin to redissolve, the fluid becoming gradually clearer, and the absorption of ozone by degrees ceasing. At last the liquid, containing only a few light flocculi, which gradually subside to the bottom of the vessel, possesses a slightly acid reaction. Neither heat, mineral or organic acids, nor metallic salts, with the exception of acetate ', of lead, has now the power of precipitating or coagulating this solution, j There is, therefore, no longer any albumen present. Alcohol renders the liquid turbid. On standing there are no crystals formed; but if slowly 1 evaporated, there remains behind a brownish-coloured substance, partly l soluble in alcohol. From this aleoholic solution long prismatic crystals, - in star-shaped groups, are obtained. It is possible that they are benzoic ti acid. No urea can be detected. The change which ozone causes albu- I men to undergo is in many respects similar to that caused by pepsin— I peptone. (9) Ozone acts equally energetically on casein. At first the fluid in 5 which the casein is dissolved becomes turbid; it then gradually clears, j and at length looks exactly like the solution of albumen. Acetic acid i no longer precipitates the casein, but on the addition of heat coagulation 4 occurs. So, at this stage of the process, the casein appears to have been a transformed into a substance resembling albumen. If the action of ozone, 1 however, be prolonged, a result is obtained exactly similar to that - described as occurring with albumen. (10) When milk is treated with ozonized air, after a few days its casein I entirely disappears, while the fat of the milk remains unchanged for t several weeks. If the milk be evaporated after being so treated, a large I quantity of milk-sugar is obtained. Casein appears, therefore, to be I much more readily affected by ozone than milk-sugar. (11) Fibrin is not acted on by ozone; neither is (12) bone-gelatin, nor (13) inosite.