REPORT OS MIDM'IFETtYj ETC. 854 difficulty, the oxtrnction was effected, the child being dend. Case 4 was a second labour; the labour had lasted twenty hours; the conjugate diameter 3.25", brim kidney-shaped, no foetal pulsation on auscultation, meconium escaping. Turning was performed, and the child, which at first did not breathe, finally recovered. The long forceps could only have been applied in such a direction as to increase the bi-parietal diameter, and increase the disproportion and difficulty. Dr. B EAXTON Ulcus.— On a Arew Jlfethod of Version in Abnormal Labour. Lancet, July 14th and 21st, i860, pp. 28, 55. Dr. Braxton I licks calls attention to a new method of turning in abnormal labour. It is a combination of "external turning,"—a method lately discussed and enlarged upon by Esterle and Martin, and internal manipulation. The internal manipulation is confined to the intro- duction of one finger through the cervix uteri. Then, in the first cephalic position, one finger of the left hand is made to touch the head, and pressure upwards and to the left exerted, while at the same time, by the right hand placed over the fundus uteri, the other extremity of the child is moved downwards and to the right side. The position is thus changed into a transverse one, the knees downwards. The remainder of the operation is then readily completed by hooking the finger round the knee. The advantages of this plan over the old method are avoidance of uterine irritation, of entry of air into the cavity, of liability to rupture of uterus, of much of the distress and pain felt in ordinary plan, of ne- cessity for removing the coat, &c, and-of fatigue and pain to the operator. The membranes, too, need never be ruptured. Six cases are related in which the method of turning above described was adopted, and the manipulations were perfectly successful. Leopold.—J Plan for Facilitating Turning. Mon. f. Geb., vol. xiv, p. 60. Med. Times and Gaz., April 21st, i860, p. 402. Dr. Figg.— On Turning in all Cases of Labour. Med. Times and Gaz. i860, Sept. 8th, 15th, and Oct. 13th and 20th, pp. 23,3, 256, 353, 315- , , . t Dr. Figg starts with the proposition that, in abnormal cases, version possesses advantages over other methods of delivery. He then proceeds to advocate general delivery by turning, and hopes to prove its rationality in its salutary results. His argument, is as follows:—The process of labour, as it occurs in civilised communities, cannot be said to be natural, as is shown by a com- parison of the easy and safe labours in uncivilised communities with the often difficult and dangerous labours of civilised life. If it be granted " that the artificial existence evident around us, superseding the conditions of nature generally, has assumed a special and direct influence over the parturient organs "of the human female, modifying their structure, we must also confess the necessity of artificial measures adapted to the artificial state." Formerly, the author stales, he was in the habit of employing chloro- form during version, believing it essential. Of late the chloroform was more frequently omitted. Of fifty-eight recent cases, the operation was