REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 358 Enlargement of Maternal Passages. Foucault.—Case of Symphysiotomy. Arch. Gen., Nov., i860. The patient wns rachitic, a priniipara \ labour had set in, and the pre- sentation was pelvic. The pelvis was considerably constricted. The lower extremities and body of the child were extracted, but the head could not be made to follow. The symphysis was cut through, and the child extracted stillborn. Recovery of mother. Forceps. Helly.—On the Use of the Forceps in Facial Presentations. Prag. Viert., 1859, vol. lxiii, p. 63. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 194. The greater duration of the labour, in cases of face presentations, depends on the defective relations of the diameters of the head and pelvis. Whereas, after ordinary deliveries, the fronto-occipital measurement of the head is less than the occipito-mental by about 1", after delivery in face presentations, the fronto-occipital diameter was longer than the other in two cases ; equal to it in twelve ; about-}" shorter in thirteen cases; about y shorter in three; and about 1" shorter than the occipito-mental in two cases. Total, thirty-two. The author contends that when the head is situated high in face presentations, the use of the forceps is objectionable, the shape of the instrument is not adapted to the surfaces with which it is necessarily brought into contact, and fatal results to the mother are liable to occur. This objection diminishes as the head is lower in the pelvis. There was no instance of face presentation in the third and fourth positions out of 12,000 cases. Reymann.— Forceps Operation Fatal to the Child. Preuss. Ver. Ztg., 17, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 471. Prof. E. Martin.—On Forceps Operations. Mou. f. Geb., Aug., 1839, p. 81. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 194. Martin states that, in the use of the forceps, traction is the principal thing; pressure is to be regarded as subordinate. The advantages derived from rotation of the head by means of the forceps are dubious. Guenther.—On Rectification of the Position of the Head before Apply- ing the Forcepis. Varges' Ztsch., xiv, p. 2. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 46. Doig.—The Forceps and Perforator Compared. Med. Times and Gaz., July 28th, p. 74. LlZE.—The Choice to be made between the Forceps alone and the Simultaneous Use of the Forceps and Ergot, tvhen the Head of the Foetus is Arrested at the Inferior Strait by the Resistance of the Perinaeum in Primiparee. Gaz. Hop., March 6th, 8th, i860. Briuvjf.lot.—Dystocia; Application of the Forceps; Death of Mother and Child; Consecutive Ccesarean Operation. Gaz. H6p., June 19, i860. Feeds. Bodhaert : Beydlf.r.—On the Vectis. Ann. de la Soc. tie Med. de Gand, Jan., Sept., and Oct., ,4.859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 47.3.