EEPORT OX PRACTICAL MKDICINK. :!1 t Fridham specially considers tlio mode of management of dyspeptic asthma, which ho treats hy sedatives and strict diet. He relates a case of extreme emaciation with bronchitis and emphysema occurring in a clergyman, above 70 years of age, who had always been desired to live generously to make up for the copious expectoration of the disease. This man was placed on a greatly restricted diet with Extr. Ilyoscy. gr. iij. quater die, afterwards changed for conium, and entirely lost his asthma, which previously had been constant, preventing him for years from lying down in bed at night, lie remarks on the greater liability of men to asthma than women, in the proportion of 80 per cent., according to his own experience. " Secondly, women who are liable to asthma have gout prevailing in their families in a larger proportion than men." Thirdly he observes that asthmatic people are for the most part, gifted with extraordinary energy and talents. Several cases are related which illustrate forcibly the advantage of strict and careful dieting, where the asthma has its origin in disorder of the digestive organs. In conclusion he illustrates the effect of atmospheric influence as an exciting cause, and notices some palliative remedies. Fuller.—On the successful Treatment of Whooping Cough hy increasing doses of Sulphate of Zinc and Belladonna. Lancet, July 28th. Fuller administers to children under three years of age, Extr. Bellad. gr. £ c, Zinci Sulph. gr. ^, quater die, and to children above that age, Extr. Bellad. gr. ^ c, Zinci Sulph. gr. i. The amoimt taken is increased by one dose every day, or every other day. The whoop ceases under this medication in 10-21 days. Dilatation of the.pupil does not require discontinuance of the remedy. Sharkey. —On the distinctive marks between Diphtheria and Croup. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Aug. 4th. Sharkey argues for the great difference between croup and diphtheria, (1) from the earlier period of life at which croup mostly occurs; (2) from the absence of any gangrenous tendency in croup; (3) from the non-occurrence of swelling of the cervical lymphatic glands in croup; (4) from the non-contagiousness of croup; (5) from the fauces in diph- theria being covered with false membrane. Lawford.—On the proper use of Stramonium in Hay Asthma.—Brit. Med. J., Aug. 18th. Lawford recommends inhalation of concentrated stramonium fumes in hay-asthma. The herb is to be washed, the smoke puffed into an inverted ale glass, and when this is full it is to be placed over the mouth, and a dec]) full inspiration taken. The result is a momentary sense of suffocation, then copious expectoration of ropy mucus and immediate relief. Skoda.—On the Besorpiion of Pleuritic Exudations. Allgem. Wiener Med. Zeitung., No. 4-7, 1859. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Aug. Skoda° is not favorable to thoracentesis, or subsequent iodine injec-