GENERAL SYSTEM. H7 Gexpron'.—On the treatment of Diphtheria, L'Union Med., March 8th, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July. Gendron considers that local applications are the most important means in the treatment of diphtheria, and prefers the perchloride of iron to nitrate of silver or H. CI. He advises that the applications be frequently- renewed, and made, as far as possible, to surfaces deprived of their 2)lastic covering. Sigmujjd.—On the Use of Sarsaparilla in Syphilitic Diseases. Zeitschr. d. Gesellch. d. Aerzte zu Wien, Jan. 2nd, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, i860. Sigmund, after a careful trial of the best sarsaparilla, has come to the conclusion that it does not exercise the slightest perceptible influence on the course and termination of syphilitic diseases. MouTiUiD-MARTiN.—On the Value of Sulphate of Cinchonine in the Treatment of Ague. L'Union Med., March 29th, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July. Moutard-Martin treated nineteen cases of ague with cinchonine. Thirteen were completely cured, two improved, and four altogether unaffected. Elliotson.—Reasons for regarding as simply Urethral Rheumatism and Ophthalmia what are generally termed Gonorrhceal Rheumatism and Ophthalmia, zvith Suggestions for their Cure and Prevention. Med. T. and Gaz., June 30th. Elliotson has met with cases of so-called gonorrhoeal rheumatism, in Which it was impossible that the urethral discharge could be the result of infection, lie lays stress on the inflammatory nature of the rheumatic affection, and advocates strongly patient abstinence for a lengthened period from fermented and distilled liquids, and flesh food. The ophthalmia is less obstinate, but is to be treated similarly. Arxott.—On the Treatment of Rheumatic A fections. Med. T. and Gaz., July 14th. Arnott strongly recommends congelation as a remedy in rheumatic affections, stating that a large experience has shewn that, in the great majority of instances, it is capable of immediately and permanently relieving the pain, and subduing the inflammatory condition of the part to which it is applied. A quantity of small pounded ice mixed with half its weight of common salt, is to be placed in a piece of gauze, and applied to the skin for about six minutes. Cutler.— Variola and Vaccinia. Boston Med. and Surg. J., March 15th, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, i860. Cutler was unsuccessful in obtaining the normal pustule when vario- lous matter was inoculated into young cows. With vaccine matter (such as he used for human beings) he succeeded. Llndwurm.—On Syphilisation and the Treatment of Syphilis with Tartar