4 REPORT ON '1 11K INSTITl'TKS OS MEDICINE, the circumstance that in embryos, notwithstanding that tliere is one uni- form formative material for all the cells, some absorb one, some another, material. The reason of this phenomenon may be thus stated in general terms—that cell-walls do not act like simple filters, but allow one sub- stance or another to permeate them, according to their chemical com- position, the nature of the surrounding fluid, their condition of aggrega- tion, and their thickness. (6) The vegetative functions of animal cells are not limited to the taking up and transforming of matters, but extend to the excreting of materials. Cells may either excrete the mate- rials they absorb in an unaltered form, or give off substances which they themselves have prepared. The separated materials frequently present no relations to the cells whence they come, and are either subservient to special purposes in the animal economy or are entirely removed from the body, (c) Regarding the animal functions of cells, it is extremely difficult to say whether certain movements which appear in cells concern only the contents or the cell-wall also. In some of the lowest animals which have the signification of simple cells—Rhizopoda, &c.—the outer envelope appears to be contractile, either in its totality or in its external processes; yet it is also conceivable that all the movements we observe depend only upon the contents, and that the envelope simply follows them as an elastic body. 4th. Metamorphoses of cells.—The destination of the cells which are deve- loped at earlier or later periods in the organism is very various, (a) Many cells never go through any metamorphoses, but remain as simple cells, till sooner or later they perish—epithelium-cells, cells of glandular parenchymas, &c. (6) A considerable number of cells become altered in form and change more or less their original nature, such as the horny plates of the epidermis and nails, (c) Other cells remain only for a short period in their primitive state ; they become modified, and unite with others for the formation of the higher elementary parts—muscular fibres, &c. John Marshall (Univ. Coll.)—A Description of the Human Body, its Structure and Functions. 4to, pp. 240, and an Atlas of 193 coloured illustrations, i860. This work, the author states, is designed for the use of teachers in schools and young men destined for the medical profession, and for popular instruction generally. It occupies a position midway between the strictly medical and the general educational treatises. Dr. T. Spencer Cobbold.—Mammalian Division of the Museum of Natural History, i860. This work, though devoted to the zoological characters and habits of animals, contains a succinct account of the anatomy of each order. The division is illustrated with 34 plates and 93 wood-engravings. Dr. J. L. Teed.—Animal Chemistry, and its Relations to Therapeutics. Amer. Journ. Med. Science, July, i860, p. 63. In a long review article, Teed gives a rfaumi of many of the recent dis- coveries in animal chemistry, and concludes by saying that, in framing a dietary, especially in convalescence and in health, 110 difficulty will be found if physiological principles are borne in mind. The albuminous foods most readily convertible into albuminose, combined with such proportions