EEPOKT ON PRA.OTI0AL MEWCrNE. 232 Sappey denies that the umhilical vein takes any part in forming a communication between the portal vein and those of the abdominal walls in cirrhosis of the liver. What authors have described as the umbilical vein in such cases is probably an enlarged vein belonging to the accessory portal discovered by Sappey. These run from the abdo- minal wall and the diaphragm through the teres and suspensory liga- ments to the portal vein branches. Another group reaches the liver by the longitudinal fissure passing along the umbilical cord. One of these veins opens constantly into the left branch of the portal vein at the same level as the point of junction of the obliterated umbilical vein. This vein was in two cases as large as the radial artery. Sappey enumerates numerous anastomoses between the portal and the general venous system at points more or less distant from the liver, as well as between certain veins of the intestines and branches of the inferior cava. \5ouley.—Report on a Memoir by M. Labourdette, entitled, " On the Intro- duction of Medicines into the Milk by Digestive Assimilation." Read and discussed before the Acad, of Medic, April 19th and 26th, 1859. Bullet, de l'Acad. xxiv, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 123. Labourdette found it a matter of some difficulty to keep the cows and goats in health and milk while they were being dosed with various drugs. He succeeded however pretty well, by keeping them in the open air and feeding them well on vegetables and fresh roots. In some instances he was able to give as much as Pot. Iod. 20 grammes, Calomel 3 gram., Hydr. Bichl. 1 gram., Liq. Pot. Arsen. 5—10 gram, daily. The various ingredients were more difficult of detection chemi- cally than when merely mixed with the milk. Trousseau.—On the simple Ulcer of the Stomach and Hcematemesis. Clinique Europeenne, 1859, No. 1. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 183. Trousseau, apropos of a case, maintains the probability of idiopathic haemorrhage from the gastric mucous membrane. Mn>DELDORPF.—On External Gastric Fistula; and their Cure by Surgical Means, ivith an Account of a successful Case. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 187. . . Middeldorpf details in a condensed manner the vanous pomts relating to his subject. He mentions the situation of the external orifice in 27, and of the internal in 14 cases. The causes of the fistula may be external or internal. FbRSTER.—On Peritonitis in consequence of Puriform Ltf animation of the Fallopian Tubes. Wiener Med. Wochenschrift, No. 44, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 198. . . . Forster distinguishes 3 forms of this disease; one in which the inflammation spreads directly from the abdominal opening of the tube to the surrounding peritoneum; a second m winch the inflamed tube is perforated by ulceration and pus escapes into the peritoneum, and a third in which pus or sanious matter flows from the open end of the