REPORT ON SUItOEHY. 308 dark-blue, tense, globular piece of bowel, that could not be returned until after division of this neck of the sac. The patient died from exhaustion. The dissection showed that a large part of the caecum had lain in the sac, and that the vermiform appendix had descended outside the sac, to the neck of which it had become adherent. Kuhn.— Operation for an Inguinal Hernia in a Woman in Childbed. Gaz. de Paris, 51, 1859. iSchmidt, No. 8, p. 221;, vol. 107. In this case there was a double sac. HdNISH.—Radical Cure after Herniotomy. Allg. Wicn. Med. Ztg., 47, 1858. Schmidt, No. 8, p. 227, vol. 107. Danzel.—A Case of Inguinal Hernia, which contained a very small Piece of Gut, and seemed to be Partially Reducible ; Operation. \Vien. Ztschr., N. F. ii, 38, 1859. Schmidt, No. 8, vol. 107, p. 229. A locksmith's apprentice, set. 26, who for several years had had an inguinal hernia on the left side, which was imperfectly kept up by a truss, was seen by Danzel on the seventh day after the commencement of symptoms of strangulation. Purgatives and injections had been already tried, and three days previously an evacuation had occurred. The patient had terrible pain in the pit of the stomach; the vomiting had abated. A reducible hernia was detected on the right side, and on the left a soft, painless, compressible, but irreducible, swelling, which descended out of the inguinal canal into the upper part of the scrotum. The contents of this rupture could be pushed slighly up into the canal, and the skin could also be pushed by the rupture on the point of the finger into the canal. The left inguinal canal felt harder and more resisting than the right. An operation was performed, and a piece of gut, of the size of a cherry, was found in the upper part of the canal, constricted by a fibrous thread. Thompson, Hy.—Three Cases of Strangulated Femoral and Inguinal Hernia ; Herniotomy. Lancet, June 9, p. 572. Patri.—Strangulation of a Hernia and Obstruction of the Bowel by an Intestinal Concretion ; Fatal Peritonitis. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., 8, 1859. Schmidt, No. 3, vol. 105, p. 331. A case of strangulated hernia, where the symptoms continued not- withstanding its reduction. Three weeks after the commencement of her illness, the patient, a woman, aged 40, was admitted into the Gratz Hospital with symptoms of acute peritonitis, of which she died. Just below Poupart's'ligament, on the right side, there was an oval, not tense, fluctuating swelling, of the size of a nut; it gave a hollow sound on percussion; its neck could not be traced into the abdominal cavity, it could not be lessened by pressure ; and was not painful when handled. Sect, cadav.—Congestion and oedema of the lungs. Signs of acute peri- tonitis. A loop of ileum, one inch from the csecum, of a dark-red colour, was sharply limited by lines of demarcation. This loop of bowel contained only a little mucus ; its mucous membrane was congested, and the submucous tissue was (Edematous. At the line of demarcation the canal of the bowel was closed. At the ccecal end of the loop the