KUPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OE MEDICINE. DO title presented by the author in i8f,8, with some additional matter. Ue says that, although blood collected from the right side of the heart alter death contains abundance of sugar, yet when the blood is removed from the same part during life, it contains only a trace of sugar. As regards the liver, the author says, if it contains any sugar at the moment of death, it is only to the extent of the merest trace. The glucogene which is formed in the liver, although most susceptible of undergoing transformation into sugar when in contact with a ferment, resists, he thinks, this kind of trans- formation under natural circumstances during life. Tn the transformation of glucogene into sugar in the liver after death, the average of four analyses gave a loss of one part and a half of that substance for the production of one part of sugar. See also the author's Lettsomian Lectures in the 'Lancet.' November and December, pp. 503, 529, 555, 579, 607, and 629. C. Schmidt (Dorpat).—On the presence of Sugar in the Blood of the Portal Vein, and in that of the Sub-hepatic Veins. Coaipt. Rend., vol. xlix, p. 63. Schmidt examined the blood of the portal vein in two dogs during the digestion of flesh, and in one which had been kept fasting during two days, and in no case did he find it contain sugar. On the other hand, in the blood of the sub-hepatic veins of the same animals he fouud nearly 1 per cent, of sugar in the dogs fed on flesh, and \ per cent, in the fasting animal. The exact figures were— Quantity of Sugar. Portal Vein. Hepatic Vein. 0 0.93 0 O.99 Dog kept fasting during two days 0 0.3I From these experiments it is concluded that the liver is the seat of the saccharine formation. Dr. J. L. W. Thudichum.—Experimental Epicrisis of some late Re- searches on Liver-Sugar. Brit. Med. Jouru., 17th March, p. 206. Thudichum begins by statiug that the results of some experiments he made in 18 $9 are adverse to the opinion of Pavy, and in accordance with that of llarley. Moreover, they afforded him the opportunity of ascer- taining the sources of fallacy in at least two of the modes of proceeding adopted by the former observer. Thudichum relates some experiments, and then adds— The first experiment showed that, when a liver containing sugar is treated with caustic potassa under circumstances preventing any rise of the temperature of the mixture, the sugar, under the influence of the caustic potassa and the oxygen of the air and water, is rapidly destroyed. The second experiment showed that the destruction of sugar, under cir-