474. REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. Thomas Hopley, a schoolmaster, and a man of "high attainments," was tried at the Lewis assizes for the manslaughter of Reginald C. Cancellor, ahoy, ret. 15. The lad exhibited no aptitude for learning, and was looked upon as hcing unusually obstinate by his master, who stated, when examined, " that the deceased was a very peculiar boy, and was not only very obstinate, but was also actuated by a determination not to learn anything;" "that he did not know the difference, or pretended not to know it, between a shilling and a sixpence." It was proved that, for a period of nearly two hours, the prisoner beat Cancellor with a skipping- rope and a stick, and that the boy either died under the punishment or very quickly after. The legs and arms exhibited, at the subsequent examination, very extensive contusions and subcutaneous lacerations, and two wounds as if by a pointed stick. The brain exhibited evidence of chronic hydrocephalus. Verdict of guilty. Sentence—four years' penal servitude. The author infers, from the preceding cases, the extraordinary ignorance which prevails among all classes of society concerning the significance of some marked forms of brain disease. Had a degree of perversion cor- responding to that witnessed in the functions of the brain, been manifested in the different cases in the functions of the heart, the intestines, or the muscular system, the need of the physician would have been at once felt and his aid sought. The author concludes in the words of Lelut:—" From complete or philosophical reason to delirium truly maniacal there are innumerable degrees, of which it would be advantageous that every man should have a general knowledge." The remainder of the article relates to the recent occurrence of cases of attempted suicide, which, from the comparative triviality of the causes inducing the act, "indicate the existence of a most unhealthy tone of thought on the suhject among certain of the metropolitan classes." The author refers not so much to suicides prompted by despair, and referable in general to mental disease, as to those "make-believes at felo de se" which are prompted by drunkenness or imposture, and generally take place within sight or call of timely assistance. Homicidal Maniacs at large. Journ. of Psych. Med., vol. xiii, p. xii. In commenting on the case of Pownall, a gentleman, who, having been recently liberated from an asylum, got up one morning and, without pro- vocation, cut the throat of a maid-servant, in August, 1859, anc* 011 t,iat of Moore, a mechanic, who murdered his wife at Finsbury under similar circumstances on the 28th November following, the editor remarks that the improper dismissal of these and other homicidal lunatics was fairly attributable to the popular outcry against the supposed unjust detention of individuals in private asylums, to the influence which this clamour has lately exercised on the bar and the bench, and the expression of such opinions by persons in high position, as that of Lord Shaftesbury, "that the opinion of a man of ordinary observation is better than that of a medical man in determining the question of insanity." Arnold VON Franqoe.—On Delirium Tremens. (An Essay submitted to the Medical Faculty of Munich, pro tenia legendi.) Munich, 1859. From statistical inquiries Franque concludes that there is a remarkable