380 ltEPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. ledge in all that relates to the signs and diseases of pregnancy. The author considers successively ; —physiological and other questions relating to pregnancy ; the signs and symptoms of pregnancy ; the diseases which simulate pregnancy; the duration of pregnancy; the premature expulsion of the foetus; the examination of substances expelled from the uterus; extra-uterine gestation; supcrfcetation ; diseases which may coexist with pregnancy, and their reciprocal influence ; sympathetic disorders of pregnancy; diseases of the urinary and generative organs during pregnancy ; and displacements of the gravid uterus. The work contains details of numerous cases observed by the author, illustrative of the several questions discussed. Guillot.—Hypertrophy of the Thyroid Gland in Pregnant Women. Arch. Gen., Nov., i860. The author relates two cases in which the thyroid gland attained a very large size during pregnancy, and in both cases the patients succumbed. He has observed an enlargement similar in kind, but not so great in degree, in other women, and thinks it highly probable that the connection between such hypertrophy and the presence of pregnancy will be established. In both the cases recorded there was no other cause to assign for the enlargement. Paul.—On the Influence of Lead-poisoning on Conception. Archiv. Gen., May, i860. Paul shows, by a series of observations (on eighty-one cases), that lead- poisoning has an important influence in promoting a tendency to abortion. The effects were menorrhagia after the menses have become suppressed in cases where there was reason to believe pregnancy was present; abortions or miscarriages from the third to the sixth month ; premature deliveries, children being born dead or dying; high mortality in children during the first three years of life. Thus four women, subjects of lead-poisoning (printing-type polishers), had collectively fifteen pregnancies, out of which there M ere ten abortions, two premature deliveries, one stillbirth, one child dead in twenty-four hours, only one living. Other series of observations show the alteration from unfavorable to favorable pregnancies on the abandonment of the employment. From a series of seven observations, it appears that a similar deleterious influence may proceed from the father when the latter is a worker in lead. SPECIAL. Obstinate Vomiting in Pregnancy, §-c. Pjstrequin.—On Obstinate Vomiting in Pregnancy. Gaz. Hop., April 3d, i860. A case is related by Petrequin in which the mineral waters of Con- dillac were successful in restraining the vomiting, after other measures had been ineffectually used. Caiiadec and G. Richelot, L'Union, 40 ; Baudot and Dufor, L'Union, 46, i860. — On Obstinate Vomiting in Pregnancy. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 311.