KKPOirr ON 1MIACTICAE MEDICINE. 230 IIOWITZ.—Case of escape of Air into the Peritoneal Cavity after perforation of the Wall of the. Stomach hi/ an Ulcer. IIosp. Tidcnde, No. 16, 1H59. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 43. After tin; details of his case, Itowit/. proceeds to point out the points of diagnosis bet ween accumulation of air in tlie intestines, and disten- sion of the peritoneal cavity by it. In the latter case, the abdomen is more uniformly distended, the hand applied to the surface experiences a peculiar elastio sensation, and the normal hepatic dulness may be entirely ahsent, and replaced by a tympanitic sound, continuous with the pulmonary resonance. In the former case, besides the absence of the symptoms that have been mentioned, some distended intestinal convolutions can manifestly be made out through the abdominal parietes. Isid. Buys.—On a Cause of Death in aged or very weakly Persons apt to escape Notice. Journ. dc Bruxelles, No. 28, p. 359, April, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 93. Isid. Buys draws attention to the danger of aged or feeble persons, or those whose mental faculties are in any way impaired, being suffo- cated by morsels of food, &c, in the act of swallowing. Schottin.—On Fermentation in the Stomach. Arch. d. Heilk. i, p. 109, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 177. In 5 patients affected with chronic gastric catarrh, Schottin found the matters vomited when the stomach was empty, or nearly so, to contain always butyric acid, and once in a drunkard, acetic. Muriatic and lactic acids were always absent. He regards the two first mentioned acids as products of fermentative chauge affecting the gastric mucus and epithelium, and recommends alcohol, muriatic, and sulphuric acids, as means of arresting this process, and improving digestion. Kennedy.—On the Condition of the Intestine in Typhoid Fever. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Juue 1st. Kennedy's case presented all the signs of typhoid fever, and sank on the 21st day; but there was found no intestinal ulceration, though Peycr's patches were developed to some extent. Smith.—Brandy Injections in Cholera. Med. T. & Gaz., June 23rd, i860. Smith recommends encmata of brandy and strong green tea after each intestinal evacuation in cholera. It controls the diarrhoea, and induces rapid reaction. He also gives calomel, quinine, and camphor in a pill every half-hour. Munciimeyer.—On Typhlitis and Perityphlitis and their Sequela: Deutsche Klinik. 5—10, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 30. Munchmcyer advises, in the treatment of typhlitis and perityphlitis, evaeuant remedies, as 01. Ricin. and Calomel to be continued as long as the painful tumour exists. In cases of great dilatation with msuperablo obstruction an artificial anus is to be made, which, though below the