AVOUNDS AND INJU1UKS. 429 Hoffmann.—Practice of Legal Medicine. Deut. Zeitscli., vol. xiv, part 2. Case i. Penetrating wound of the skull; injury of the meningeal artery; effusion of blood into the cranial cavity ; injury of the bruin and its membranes. Case 2. Ill-treatment, consisting in pressure on the windpipe and a blow on the stomach; convulsions; gastric disorder and dysphagia attributed to fracture of a laryngeal cartilage; improbability of this form of injury; incapacity for work lasting two and a half months. Case 4. Fracture of skull by a sling ; inflammation of the brain with sup- puration ; death. Jothnek.—Two Cases of fatal Somatic Injuries. Deut. Zeitsch. Neue Folge, vol. xiv, part 2. Two cases of fracture of the skull complicated with extravasation, inflammation of the brain and its membranes, and suppuration. Kaliscii (loc. cit.)—Case 5. Injury of the Head, with Extravasation into the Cranial Cavity. Case 11. Severe Injury of (he Brain; Trephining; two Splinters of Bone left in the substance of the Bruin. Question of Mala Praxis. Adler.—Injuries of the Blood-vessels. Friedreich, vol. x, part 1. Canst., vol. vii, p. 8. An inaugural dissertation, in which the injuries of blood-vessels arc studied in a medico-legal point of view. The author has minutely analysed the possible sources of danger in forty-one varieties of injury. Weule.—On the Medico-Legal Discrimination of Injuries. Ungar. Zeitsch., vol. x, p. 43. Toulmouciie.—Penetrating Wounds of the Chest, in their Clinical and Medico-Legal Aspects. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xi, p. 456. Masciika.—Abortion consequent on a Blow on the Belly. Peritonitis terminating fatally in the absence of medical a&sistance. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, p. 20. Thomas.—Medico-Legal Criticism of Injuries of the Liver. Friedreich, vol. x, part 3. Hofmann.—Accusation of Burglary and Theft, $-c. Ilenke, vol. xxxix, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 7. B'ucii?)EK.—Permanent or Transitory Incapacity for Work? Super- arbitrium in a case of Injury to the Spinal Marrow. Deut. Zeitsch., vol. xiv, 2, p. 356. KituGKLSTEiN.— Cruel Treatment of an Old Man by Exposure and Starvation. Ilenke, vol. xl, p. 147. Klob.— Frequency of Hypostatic Pneumo)iia in Elderly Persons, and the Influence of the same on the Medico-Legal Discrimination of slight Injuries ivhich confine the patient to bed. Wieu. Ztsch. N. P. vol. iii, p. 21. Langendouf.—Medico-Legal Discrimination of the Consequences of Immoderate Punishments inflicted on Children by Parents and Guar- dians. Deut. Ztsch. N. P., vol. xv. p.'3. Takdieu.- Observations and Experiments on the Effects of the Discharge of a Cannon loaded with Powder, Sfc. Ann. d'llye:., vol. xi, p. 410 An investigation arising out of a case of fracture of the forearm with extravasation, alleged to have been produced by wadding