CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 251 tion is almost invariably accelerated to an extent which is inconvenient ami unfavorable to a healthy state of body, and an undisturbed condition of the mental faculties during the time that the bather is exposed to an heat of 1300 (never under that temperature) m the principal bath department; that where there is a tendency to disease of tlie heart, peritoneal or organic, to congestion of that organ, or the brain, or the lungs, or the liver, the acceleration of the pulse and excitement of the whole nervous system, are not limited to the period of remaining in the bath, but extend to periods of several hours, varying from 3 to 5 and even 7 or 8 hours subsequently to the use of the bath; and lastly, that the feeling of composure and exhilaration, which are so characteristic of the effects of the Turkish Hammaam of heated humid air, are not to be expected in any commensurate degree as results or accompaniments of the use of the baths recently esta- blished in this country, wherein parched dry ah, contaminated with the , effluvia of coke in a state of combustion, is substituted for pure air, hot and humid, which is peculiarly adapted to cause extensive and uniform perspiration." Moore.—Cases of Squamous Disease. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Jan. 16th. Moore records several cases of Psoriasis and Pityriasis successfully treated by Extr. laricis internally and externally with bran baths, conjoined in 2 cases with biniodide of mercury, or iodide of arsenic. Stokes.—On Prevention of Pitting in Small-Pox. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb., i860. Stokes, in his paper, arrives at the following practical conclusions: (1) That the chances of marking are much greater in the sthenic or Inflammatory than in the asthenic or typhoid confluent small pox. (2) That, considering the change in the character of disease, both essential and local, observed during late years, we may explain the greater frequency of marking in former times. (3) That in the typhoid forms of the disease the treatment of the surface by an artificial covering, such as gutta-percha, or by glycerine, will often prove satisfactory. (4) That in the more active or non-typhoid forms the use of constant poulticing, and of every other method that will lessen local inflammation, seems to be the best mode of preventing the dis- figurement of the face. He records one striking instance of the effect of local depletion in preventing the development of eruption. A healthy young woman was freely leeched on the forehead for intense headache occurring with active febrile symptoms. Much blood was drawn and much relief obtained, but soon after small pox eruption appeared, and assumed the form of most severe confluent pock on the trunk and limbs, while on the face not more than three aborted pustules made their appearance. He does not think puncturing suc- cessful unless the disease be mild, and the pustules appear and advance together without much cutaneous inflammation. White.—On the Use of Potash in some Cutaneous Diseases. Med. T. and Gaz., March 3rd, i860. White details the application made in Germany of schmier-seife to