135 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. observations, he shows that both the naked eye and microscopic appearances are insufficient for the diagnosis of tubercle. Even the small granular corpuscle which has been considered distinctive is found in cancer, and in inflammatory products, and is probably only a shrivelled cell or free nucleus. The only common property observable in formations resembling tubercle is, that they show the most un- doubted signs of degeneration. He replies, therefore, to the above questions, that tubercle " is not a specific exudation. It does not exist, as such, in the blood. The yellow variety is always the result of metamorphosis—of degeneration. It is altogether probable that it is owing to a degraded condition of the nutritive material, which differs from that furnished under ordinary circumstances, not in kind, but in degree of vitality or capacity for organization." He discusses at some length the relation between the gray variety of tubercle and inflammation, and quotes the observations of Bernhardt and Virchow. His essay closes with a summary of the views of the latter, which he adopts, and which are as follows:—(i) " Tuberculization, the undoubt- edly local process by which is formed the product known as tubercle, does not consist in a peculiar specific exudation, but in a peculiar transformation of the element of tissues, which in 1847, I described in cancer under the name of tuberculoid metamorphosis. (2) The tuber- culoid metamorphosis is co-ordinate with the fatty, waxy, cretaceous, and atheromatous change, but not at all with inflammation, dropsy, suppuration, or the formation of cancer. (3) The tuberculoid meta- morphosis is met with in newly formed pathological tissues, in the old on physiological, and lastly, in both at the same time, which is the common and characteristic occurrence. It affects the transitory ele- ments composed of cells, or the permanent fibrous parts. (4) It con- . sists in a cessation of the nutrient and formative processes, or a mortification, necrosis of the elements of tissues, with subsequent peripheric absorption of the fluid parts, and the drying of those which are no longer nourished. This necrosis is caused by the accumulation of cell elements, which compress the vessels of the part. (5) These cells may be either newly formed, or result from an increased formation of the normal elements (epithelium, &c), or may have an endogenous origin. The processes by which they arise have the characters belonging to simple hypertrophy, suppuration, cancerous or sarcomatous formations, or to the infiltrated products of typhoid fever and glanders. (6) All these processes show a marked local derangement of nutrition, especially altered exudation, and point back accordingly' either to iiiflammation itself or analogous disorders, whether they originate in the irritation caused by local trouble, or are consecutive to constitu- tional causes, primary alterations of the blood, &c. (7) We have therefore, an inflammatory, cancerous, typhoid, glanderous, and sar- comatous tuberculization, which are the same as far as the character of the local process is concerned—that is, the metamorphosis of tissue • but differ more or less in the character of the whole process, whether the latter be regarded as attributable to local or general constitutional causes. (8) Tuberculosis is the entire morbid process, which includes the conditions of the local derangement of nutrition, with the changes in the exudation belonging thereto, as well as in the formation and