CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 257 F. HakTMANN. On Encysted Tumours; Atheromas. Virchow's Archiv. xii, p. 430—454. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 323. Hartmann insists that these tumours are solid from the first, and are not distended follicles. Softening of their contents with fatty change and calcareous deposition is a subsequent occurrence, while distended follicles arc soft from the first. Porta.—Oft Sebacco-follicular Tumours. Ann. Univers., 1859, May. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 329. Porta distinguishes 3 lands of these tumours; (1) isolated and m small number; (2) multitudinous, scattered like an exanthem over the whole surface; (3) massy formations of greatly enlarged glands often degenerating into ill-looking ulcers, and requiring extirpation. Hebra.—On Acne Rosacea and Sycosis. Wiener Spitalzeitung, 1859, 18. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 330, 331. Hebra states that excess in drinking is not the only cause of Acne ros.; it may be produced by all hypereerniating influences affecting the head. Potash soap is to be applied twice a day, and sulphur made into a paste with diluted spirit at night. He agrees with Chaussit, that sycosis is not essentially a parasitic disease, and treats it by removal of the diseased hairs, and application of the above-mentioned sulphur paste followed the succeeding day by potash soap. Chaussit.—Sycosis or Mentacjra. Paris, Leclerc, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 331. Chaussit believes sycosis to consist essentially in inflammation of the hair follicles, and only admits the presence of fungi as an accidental occurrence. It occurs especially in persons of fine and sensitive skin and strong beard, and in those who are exposed to heat and cold. Chaussit makes two principal divisions of sycosis—the superficial, or pustulous, and the subdermic, comprising the tuberculous and phlegmo- nous varieties. The first is hard to cure, lasts long, often relapses, but does not produce alopecia. The latter is always attended with alopecia, though mostly temporary, occurs at all ages, and in all con- stitutions, has an acute, regular, and generally short course, and no marked tendency to relapse. In the way of treatment, he counsels first to subdue all trace of inflammation, and then to apply mercurial or iodine ointments alternating with an alkaline wash. Vapour douches, alkaline baths, aloetic ointment, are useful in certain cases, as also 01. Morrh. and Arsenic internally. Bamberger.—On Pemphigus. Wurzb. med. Ztschr. i, x, p. 1 flg., i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 319. Bamberger examined the urine, blood, and the bullse-fluid of a csae under his care. The urine was scanty, strongly acid, of high specific gravity, relatively rich in urea, uric acid, chlorine and earthy phos- phates, poor in phosphoric and sulphuric acids, but contained an actual deficiency of all its ingredients. The presence of ammonia was its most remarkable peculiarity. No albumen or sugar. The blood was poor in solids, especially in albumen, and contained ammonia. The 17