303 BELLY. The patient at the same time had a femoral hernia, to which the symptoms were apparently attributable. An operation being performed, the sac was found to contain only a little dark serum ; the crural canal was free, the finger could be passed through it, and the foreign body was felt in the iliac fossa. The true nature of the case became apparent only at the post- mortem examination. Holt.—Injury to the Jejunum from a Contusion ; Subsequent Rupture and Fatal Peritonitis on the fifth day. Lancet, Dec. 22d, p. 609. Like.—Rupture of the Jejunum from a Kick on a Hernial Sac; Death from Peritonitis in thirty hours. Ib., p. 610. A man who for many years had had a large scrotal hernia, and had never worn a truss, received a kick in the groin. It gave him great pain at the time, and was followed by very severe and continuous suffering. Nine hours afterwards he was admitted into the London Hospital, where the house-surgeon made patient attempts with the taxis, which lessened the size of the rupture, from pressure of fluid out of the sac, but did not effect its complete reduction. Sixteen hours after the injury acute perito- nitis was well marked. An exploratory operation was performed at this time by Luke. There was no stricture in the inguinal canal, and the sac contained no bowel, but a large mass of adherent omentum, amongst the folds of which portions of food were found. Death ensued in fourteen hours. At the post-mortem examination a large laceration was found in the lesser bowel, through which its contents had passed into the abdo- minal cavity and excited general peritonitis. IV.—Internal Obstruction of the Intestines. Manec.—Internal Strangulation coincident with an Oblique, External, Inguinal Hernia; Death; Autopsy. Gaz. des Hop. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 22. Roux.—Internal Intestinal Obstruction co-existent ivith (Reducible) In- guinal Hernia. Gaz. des H6p., ,32, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, No. 3, P- 33°- Bunzel.— Case of Internal Obstruction from Twisting of the Bowel on its Axis. Oesterr. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk., v. 31, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, No. 3, p. 333. Kxavss.—Case of Intussusception of the Boivel in consequence of a Tumour of the Intestinal Canal. Wiirtemb. Corr.-JBl., 28, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, No. 3, p. 334. Voss.—Passage of a Piece of Gangrenous Intestine. Norsk Magazin 7, 18.58. Pr. Ver. Ztg., N. F. ii, 38, 1859. Schmidt, vol io<, No- 3, P- 335- Durr. Ileus in consequence of an Acute Bend of the Bowel, caused by Old Adhesions. Wiirtemb. Corr.-Bl., 35, 1859. Schmidt, vol. I0?, P-333- The patient survived six days. The treatment consisted in purgatives which were vomited ; clysters of castor oil, croton oil, tobacco and" bella- donna, which were soon returned, unaccompanied bv fecal matter- and one pound of metallic mercury, given in two doses, which caused Vomit-