287 BONES. is to be directly wrapped in a layer of wadding, one avid a half to two inches thick, and then pretty firmly bandaged. Over this splints are to be applied and the limb fixed in a comfortable position with cushions, &c. Bleeding unless from a large vessel, is no hindrance to the application of the wadding. The pain is said to abate, and no fever occurs, merely a moderate reaction. The apparatus requires changing about the fifth day. Amputations and resections may be treated in this manner. He reports several cases of fractures. III.—Diseases of Joints. Weber, W.—On the Changes of Cartilage in Diseases of the Joints. Virchow's Archiv, xiii, i, pp. 74—92> l858- Schmidt, No. 4, p. 66, vol. 106. Weber's observations refer especially to the intra-cellular origin of pus, and to the formation of vessels, the presence of which in inflamed cartilage is as undeniable as it is in the inflamed cornea. Barwele.—On the Pathology and Treatment of Scrofulous Diseases of the Synovial Membrane of Joints. Lancet, June 16th, 23, 30. Barwell considers that scrofulous synovitis is at first not essentially distinct from other inflammations of the synovial membrane, and that the difference lies in the inaptitude of the inflammatory products to undergo further development. In consequence of this they remain in the form of a spongy granulation-tissue, constituting the condition termed gelatinous degeneration. He recognises three stages : 1st. That in which the synovial and subsynovial tissues are alone involved. 2d. That in whicli the cartilage and bone become involved. 3d. That in which the new tissue either begins to consolidate into fibrous membrane, or to degenerate. He expresses an unfavorable opinion of issues and poultices, but speaks warmly of the advantages of the actual cautery and pressure. Chassaignac.—Intra-articidar Suppurations of the Knee-joint. Union M£d. de ia Gironde. Ann. par Jamaiu et Wahu, p. 176. This surgeon distinguishes two kinds—1. An acute suppuration, involving the whole joint, almost constantly fatal. 2. A chronic, and often circumscribed, suppuration, from which the patient may recover with or without anchylosis. " This favorable termination," he adds, " is quite exceptional." The use of drainage-tubes in both kinds of abscess is advocated, and numerous cases in which they were advantageously em- ployed are reported. Hein, Dr. Beinhold.— On Chronic Inflammation of Joints. Virchow's Archiv, xiii, 1, pp. 16—28, 1858. Schmidt, No. 4, p. 68, vol. 106. Hein describes some specimens of chronic inflammations of joints (chronic rheumatic arthritis). He found Haversian canals in thin slices from the eburnated surfaces of the bones, a fact opposed to Gurlt's state- ment that the polished portions contain none. Respecting the orisjin of "loose-cartilages," he found nothing to support Gurlt's views '(after Laennec, Gurlt maintained that in most instances they were formed by