244 mcronx ox practical mf.dk ink. removed. In these cases he also injects Tr. Iodinii, wliicli he leaves 8—10 minutes in the sac.—Leudet recommends Keeamier's mode of previously applying caustic. Boinet has operated successfully 14 times. Wagner.— Contribution to the Palholog. Anatomy of the Liver in Abdominal Typhus. Arch, de ITcilk., i. i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, Wagner finds in the interlobular areolar tissue of the liver, in cases of typhoid fever, agglomerations of numerous glistening nuclei, which he believes to cause, by pressure, destruction of the adjacent hepatic cells. Jacksch,—On Uremia. Prag. Vierteljahrschr, No. 66, p. 143. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 36. Jacksch, admitting the existence of an ammoniacal state of blood in M. Brightii, at least in certain cases, distinguishes it from the true ammoniaemia depending on the resorption of decomposing urine from the urinary passages by the following circumstances:—(1.) In true amm., the urine in the bladder is pungently ammoniacal, which is never the case in the highest degrees of uraemia from M. Brightii. (2.) In true amm. there is no dropsy. (3.) In severe amm. there is an evident dry state of the mucous membrane of the mouth, throat, nose, larynx, and conjunctiva, which is absent in uraemia. (4.) In chronic amm. there are evident ammoniacal exhalations from the iungs and skin ; in uraemia, even when the secretion of urine is arrested and sopor exists, they are but scanty. (5.) In amm., with signs of gastric disorder, there is always a continual nausea and loathing of animal food, which is rare in uraemia. (6.) In amm. violent intermitting rigors occur, which are absent in uraemia. (7.) In amm. there are no epileptoid attacks, or croupous exudations on the mucous surfaces of the mouth, throat, air-passages, serous membranes, and skin. (8.) Neither are there in amm. the retinal exudations of uraemia. (9.) Chronic amm. constantly induces an earthy pallor of the skin, and a progressive emaciation, especially of the fat and muscles. (10.) In acute and severe amm. there is constantly vomiting with diarrhoea, which is often absent in chronic, or of brief duration. (11.) In amm., whether acute or chronic, death ensues on coma lasting for several hours or days. Jacksch has observed amm. in cases of torpor and paralysis of the bladder, of dilatation of the renal pelves when the ureters have been blocked up, of renal abscesses, tubercles, and sacculated kidneys. He dissents from Treitz's view of cholera typhoid, and adopts rather that of Bidd, that the retention of the urea, &c, does not depend chiefly on the state of the kidneys, but on the loss of water and chloride of sodium, which interferes with its removal from the tissues where it is formed. Eulenberg.—Patholog. Researches regarding the Thyroid Gland. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Kev., Oct. i860. Eulenberg distinguishes three chief forms of goitre. (1) Struma glandulosa ; (2) struma vasculosa ; (3) struma fibrosa. Of the first there are the following varieties :—(a) Str. gland, hypertroph ; (ft) str.