BLOOD-VESSELS. 275 duration. Pressure at Poupart's ligament was, on two occasions, main- tained for ten days, when suppuration of the sac threatened. Extreme flexion of the leg on the thigh was then employed successfully. Smith, H.—A Case of Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery ; Trial of Com- pression ; Ligature of the Superficial Femoral Artery; Subsequent Suppuration and Bursting of the Aneurismal Sac; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., June 30, p. 644. Poland.—Rupture of the Popliteal Artery; Ligature at the Injured Spot; Gangrene; Amputation; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., February 18, p. 163. On Rupture of the Popliteal Artery and Popliteal Aneurism. Guy's Hosp. Reports, p. 281. 3. Embolia of Arteries. Nelaton.—New Case of Spontaneous Gangrene, showing the Existence of Emboli. Journal de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratique. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 164. December 9th.—Amiddle-aged female, a domestic servant, felt indisposed; she had a dry cough, and shortness of breath on going up stairs. 14th.— In the evening she was suddenly seized with excruciating pain in the cardiac region, extreme dyspnoea, and apprehension of death. Nelaton diagnosed endocarditis, and ordered fifteen leeches to be put over the heart. There was great relief and improvement on the following morning, when her chest was examined by Dr. Bean, who found nothing wrong with the heart or lungs, and thought she had probably had a fit of asthma. At five o'clock p.m. she was taken with sharp pain, cramp in the right leg. Next day this limb was cold, blanched, and insensible ; the arteries of the foot, leg, and thigh, did not pulsate, and no pulsation could be felt above the groin. Dry gangrene ensued, the intolerable pain was not relieved by opium, and, as the patient's health was failing, Nelaton ampu- tated at the place of election. Notwithstanding this, the pain continued, and death took place eight days afterwards. Sect, cadav.—An ossification connected with the mitral valve. In the auricle, a red clot, with small, depressed, white spots on it, slightly- adhering to the inner surface of the auricular appendix. It contained in its centre a white, puriform fluid, which was softened fibrine. The right common and the external iliac artery were plugged with a soft, brownish clot. Charcot.—Intermittent Limping in a Case of Complete Obliteration of the Art. Iliaca Communis. Gaz. de Par., xix, 1859. Schmidt, No. 7, p. 71, vol. 107. (b) veins. Langenbeck.—Contributions to the Surgical Pathology of Veins. Archiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. i, part 1, p. 1. Giedwood.—On Three Cases of Phlebitis occurring in Patients affected with the Syphilitic Poison, Lancet, June 23, p. 619.