210 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. the symptoms in every case were improved,—the lungs were the first organs relieved, the brain next, and the larynx last of all. In one ease 56 grains of calomel wero taken. No had effect resulted from the mercury in any of the cases. From tracheotomy Dr. Hovan does not think much is to be hoped. Spence.—Cases of Tracheotomy in Croup. Edin. Med. J., Feb. i860. Spence records 8 cases of croup in which tracheotomy was performed when the patients were in extremis. Of these 3 recovered, and in all life seems to have been prolonged. He does not sanction early per- formance of the operation, but would not have it delayed after other means have had a fair trial without avail. In the after-treatment he advocates ipecacuan emetics to the exclusion of antimony to oppose bronchial effusion, with blisters occasionally to the chest. In many it is necessary to give beef-tea and wine from the first. Parkes.—Case of Acute Sthenic Pneumonia left without treatment; observations on the Temperature of the Body, and on the Urinary Excretion. Med. T. and Gaz., Feb. 25, i860. Parkes records a case of acute sthenic pneumonia left without treat- ment, except the application of a few leeches. A table is given of the temperature, pulse, and respirations taken hourly during 6 days till the termination of the pyrexia, and of the amount of urine, its urea aud chloride of sodium contents during the period of defervescence, and during complete convalescence. It appeared clearly that there was some connexion between the variations of the pidse and tempera- ture. The urea excretion was more than doubled during resolution of the lung. Two drachms of chloride of sodium, given as an experiment, did not appear in the urine for more than 48 horns. Dr. Parkes dis- cusses finally the two principal views which are held relative to the local inflammation and the general pyrexia, and the cause of the sudden subsidence of the latter, at a period when the lung disease is at its height. The first of these regards the basis-malady as a blood disease, consisting partly at least in increase of fibrine, and considers that by transudation of the morbid material into the air-cells the blood is puri- fied. In the second the lung disease is the primary affection, and the hyperinosis of the blood a secondary. From the fact that the liver is oi'ten affected in pneumonia, Dr. Parkes suggests that some morbid condition of that organ may supply some irritant to the blood. Richardson.—On an Auscultatory Sound produced by the Action of the Heart on a portion of Lung. ' Med. T. and Gaz., Feb. 2 c, i860. Richardson says the character of the sound is superficial: a coarse crackling, heard especially at the acme of inspiration, and towards the close of expiration feeble or lost altogether. In two autopsies of patients who had presented this sound, he found a portion of inflated htag overlapping the surface of the heart, and fixed by adhesions to the°pcricardiuin or to it and the sternum also. He believes the sound to be produced by the impulse of the heart upon this fixed portion of lung.