SE0RETOIU' SYSTEM. 245 gland, parenchym; (c) str. cystica. Of the second there is the con- gestive variety, the same with varicose and ancurismatic vessels, and the inflammatory. To these may be added the ancurismatic form. Eade.—Case of Diabetes Insipidus with Analysis of the Urine. Beale's Archives of Med., No. 5. In Eade's case the quantity of urine passed exceeded by about 1 pint that of the fluid drank. It varied in sp. gr. from 1005 to 1018, and contained 5-5 to 20-1 parts of urea per 1000. He was much benefited by a prolonged course of steel. Diarrhoea was a marked symptom, as well as thirst. A short account is given of another case with a p.m., in which the chief morbid 'find' was dilatation of the ureters and renal calyces with a columnated state of the bladder, no apparent cause of obstruction being present In man.—The Action of Mercury on the Liver. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 20th. Inman questions the power of calomel, &c, to produce an increased flow of bile. Beer.—The Connective Tissue of the Human Kidney. Berlin, 1859. Canst. Jahbr., Vol. ii, p. 38. Beer gives a veiy detailed account of the morbid changes taking place in the ' matrix' of the kidney, the limitary membrane of the tubes, and the malpighian capillaries. He describes simple, and cellular, interstitial hypertrophy of the matrix, one kind of the former being peculiar to variola. The latter, he says, is a completely regressive metamorphosis, consisting- essentially in the development of cells in the interior of the connective tissue corpuscles. In both forms fatty degeneration may ensue as a subsequent change. The limitary mem- branes of the tubes may be simply hypertrophied, or thickened by change into a gelatin oid, soft substance, or converted into streaky connective tissue. Calcareous and amyloid degeneration may also affect it. The malpighian capillaries are liable to have their channel obstructed by increase of then nuclei and thickening of their walls. Roberts.—Notes on the Treatment of Diabetes. Brit. Med. J., Nov. 10th and 17 th. Roberts records 4 cases of diabetes, in which the great value of a diet as free as possible from saccharine and starchy food was exceed- ingly marked. In case 1 opium was of gTcat use, not as diminishing the excretion of sugar, but sustaining the general power. In all the cases bran cakes or gluten bread were of great advantage. Pepsine (rennet) was given in the 4th case, but without any special advantage. Roberts, from a review of the saccharine treatment, is by no means disposed to recommend it, yet suggests that cane-sugar may prove in certain proportions not only not injurious, but positively advantageous as a substitute for starch. Becquerel, A.—Clinical Researches on Albuminuria. Clinique Europ., 6, 7, 11, 14, 15, 19, 27. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 202. Becquerel lays it down as a law that whenever albumen is present in