69 ON THE ORGANS OF SENSE. temporarily transferred to the solid organs or eliminated by the various excretions; while the fact that, conversely, they might find their way from the blood, when it is the seat of poisoning, into the stomach and intestines has, as yet, been only doubtfully accepted. Our author has re-examined this point experimentally, and, from the results obtained, he says, that arsenic as well as antimony may find its way into the sto- mach and bowels, although not taken by the mouth or injected into the rectum ; facts of some importance, in cases where reliance is placed on the presence of mere traces of either of these poisons in the stomach or intestines, as furnishing evidence of recent administration by the ordinary channels. When arsenic and antimony are found in more than traces in the digestive canal, i. e. in powder or in solution in large quantity, no objec- tion can be offered to the medical inference that they have been taken by the mouth. Taylor further states that it is impossible to admit that the solid sulphides of arsenic or antimony found in the coats of the stomach or intestines of a body, in a case of exhumation, can have been derived from the metal eliminated from other parts by the mucous glands. THE FIVE SENSES—SEEING, HEARING, TASTING, SMELLING, AND FEELING. SEEING. Dr. Henry Dor.—On the Individual Differences of Refraction of the Eye. Journ. delaPhys., July, i860, p. 477. Dr. Charles Kooget.—Note on the Movements of the Iris, on its Con- vexity, and on the Non-existence of a Posterior Chamber in the Eye. Journ. de la Phys., Jul}', 1860, p. 568. Prof. H. MiiLLER.—On Smooth Muscles connected toith the Eyelids of Man and the Mammalia. Verb. d. Wurzb. Phys.-med. Ges., vol. ix, p. 259. Canst., vol. i, p. 81. M. Wundt.—Contributions to the History of the Theory of Vision. Henle's u. Pfeufer's Zeitschr., 3d series, vol. vii, p. 279. (Historical notices of ancient and modern opinions on the subject.) Ueberweg.—Coiitributions to the Theory of the Adjustment of the Sight. Henle'su. Pfeufer's Zeitschr., 3d series, vol. v, p. 268. Giraud-Teulon.—Theory of the Ophthalmoscope, with the Inferences thence derived, indispensable to an understanding of its Mechanism. Gaz. M6d., 1859, No- 7> P- I2o- A. E. Prevost.—Note on Binocular Vision. Bibl. Univ. de Geneve, Nouv. per., vol. iv, p. 105. E. Brown-S^quard.—Experimental Researches on the Influence of Light, Cold, and Heat, on the Iris, in the five classes of Vertebrata. Journ! dePhys., vol. ii, 1859, pp. 281,451. J. Uegnauld.—Analysis and Conclusions of a Work on Fluorescence of the Media of the Eye. Journ. de la Phys., vol. ii, 1859, p. 343. Gaz Med., 1859, No. 2, p. 37. J. Zaciiariah Laurence.—The Variation in Size of Complementary Optical Spectra. Brit. Med. Journ., nth Aug., p. 618. In a letter containing observations on Mr. Laurence's paper John Gorham, Esq., of Tunbridge, says that Darwin had already noticed the