REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 494- tion of houses, or with uiiclennliness of dwelling, imperfect drainage, or any other cause of offensive effluvia. He refers to, and confirms, the frequent experience of practitioners, that the worst cases have occurred among their most wealthy patients. He regards dampness as an auxiliary, but not as a principal cause of diphtheria. As regards its communica- bility Dr. Greenhow has seen no facts which indicate that it is contagious by actual contact. He admits that the disease is communicable by direct transmission from the sick to the healthy, but not by fomites. GaEEN&oy.--Diphtheija in Essex, Suffolk, Derbyshire, Gloucestershire, Hampshire, Lincolnshire, Warwickshire, Worcestershire, Stafford- shire, Cheshire, and Norfolk. Report of the Medical Officer of Health to the Privy Council, for 1859, p. 167. This report is the result of journeys, undertaken by order of the Privy Council, to various parts of England in which diphtheria has been epi- demic, for the purpose of making inquiry regarding the symptoms, causes, and mode of diffusion of the disease. The paper deals entirely in facts and observations, and gives no general conclusions. Sanderson.—Diphtheria in Lincolnshire, Staffordshire, Northampton- shire, Kent, Devonshire, and Cornwall. Ibid., p. 237. A report of the same nature as the above. As regards the causes and mode of diffusion of diphtheria, the author arrives at the following con- clusions:—That it exhibits no preference for low-lying or damp dis- tricts as compared with those which are dry and airy, and that in the counties of Lincolnshire and Kent those villages which are situated on the marshes were remarkably exempt from its invasion ; that there is no reason to suppose that diphtheria is more prevalent in localities where the atmosphere is contaminated by putrid emanations, than in those which are free from this condition ; that poverty appears to exercise no predisposing influence to diphtheria; that the liability to diphtheria is greater in children above one year than in infancy or adult life ; that when diphtheria and scarlatina prevailed in the same district, it very fre- quently happened that those who had previously had scarlatina were attacked by diphtheria, and vice versa; that the one disease did not pre- dispose to the other, or the contrary, but that in children suffering from scarlatina the local affection often assumed during its progress the diph- theritic character; that in many districts diphtheria prevailed fatally in the absence of scarlatina; that as regards personal communication, when an individual suffering from diphtheria was introduced into a locality in which no cases had before occurred, the disease frequently extended to those residing under the same roof, but rarely to neighbouring households, but that there was no instance in which it could be concluded that the disease was directly transmitted from the sick to those in health, indepen- dently of its epidemic prevalence in the locality; that the circumstances of the first appearance of diphtheria in a new locality were often such as to preclude even the possibility of personal communication. Gull.—Diphtheria in the Metropolis. Ibid., p. 297. With reference to the origin of outbreaks of diphtheria in localities in which it did not before exist, Dr. Gull did not meet with any instance in which it was attributable to personal communication, but when