THE EYE AND TTS APPENDAGES. 329 6 Mercurial treatment is most signally efficacious in curing the disease, and,' if recent, in procuring the complete absorption ot the effused ly™PMercurial-treatment previously adopted does not prevent the occur- rence of this form of iritis. 8. The subjects of infantile iritis, though often puny and cachectic, are also often apparently in good health. y. That infants suffering from iritis almost always show one or other ot the well-recognised symptoms of hereditary (aint. io Most of those who suffer from syphilitic iritis are infants born within a short period of the date of the primary disease in then- parents. . North, S. W.—Infantile Iritis from Congenital Syphilis. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 3, p. 435. This child's mother had been a prostitute, and on two occasions had suffered from venereal affections. The patient, the only living one of five children, had a syphilitic rash, and a muddy and irregular pupil. 11. Iridectomy, Section of the Ciliary Muscle, and Glaucoma. Wilde.—Oft Iridectomy and Glaucoma. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., p. 262, Sept. 1. A letter commenting on Hildige's reply, and giving extracts from cor- respondence with Lawrence, Dixon, Haynes, Walton, White, Cooper, and Fiance, setting forth the opinions of these surgeons respecting the value of this mode of treatment. HiLDlGE.—Case ofChorio-iritisofRightEye, with Sympathetic Affection of Left; Treatment by Iridectomy. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., p. 346, Nov. 15. Hancock.—On the Division of the Ciliary Muscle in Glaucoma. Lancet, Feb. nth, p. 133, and 25th, p. 185. Hancock.—Cases of Acute Glaucoma, showing the Value of HancocJcs Operation of Division of the Ciliary Muscle. Lancet, July 7th, p. 7. Hancock supposes that spasm of the ciliary muscle constitutes an important element of glaucoma, and divides it in this disease. He pro- poses this as a substitute for iridectomy, and publishes cases treated in this way. Other two cases are reported in the "Mirror" of the 'Lancet.' Hulke.— Glaucoma, and its Surgical Treatment. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 67 ; and Lancet, p. 61, July 21st. An abstract of a paper read before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, in which the author gave an outline of the symptoms, ophthal- moscopic signs, and morbid anatomy of glaucoma, and urged the great value of iridectomy, showing the groundlessness of the objections which have been taken to it. Glaucoma and Iridectomy. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 206, Sept. 1st. Two cases of acute and subacute glaucoma successfully treated