REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Herman. — Epidemic* of Puerperal Fever observed at the Lyina-in- llospital at Berne. Schweiz. Mon. Boh., 1859. Schmidt, vol 107 P- 195- These observations refer to three epidemics in the years 1839, l84Q and 1858. The disease was prevalent in the town and neiglibo'urhood during the time of the first epidemic. Several circumstances proved that 111 all three epidemics a specific miasma was generated in the hospital. Martin en q.— On Puerperal Fever. 8vo, Paris, i8<5o. A summary is here given of the views of each of the speakers in the great puerperal fever discussion at the Academy of Medicine in Paris iu 1858. Dr. Ed. Copeman. — Illustrations of Puerperal Fever. Loud., i860, Churchill, pp. 137. The author's experience of puerperal fever leads him to consider turpen- tine as the "sheet-anchor" in the treatment of the disease ; and he states that his practice, in which turpentine was employed, has been more suc- cessful than any that has yet appeared before the profession. Dr. GiBB.—Pelvic Cellulitis after a First Pregnancy, followed by Sup- puration of the Back and Front Parts of the Vagina ; Recovery. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 324. Puerperal Convidsions. Krassnig.— On Eclampsia during Pregnancy, Labour, and Childbed. Spitals Ztg., 1859, 17-24. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 312. The author relates the particulars of nineteen cases of eclampsia which occurred in 1857 and 1858, in the Clinic of Brant], at Vienna. Tlie paroxysms began in ten cases during the dilatation period, in one during turning, in five during childbed. Of the latter, three occurred during the first, one in the second, and one in the eighth week. The number of pai'oxysms varied from one to eighty-one; they were most numerous in the cases of convulsions during childbed. The duration of each paroxysm was from one to three minutes ; only one lasted ten minutes. In six there were premonitory symptoms—intellectual aberrations, rest- lessness, vomiting, disturbances of the senses, pains in the loins. In all cases save one there was reason for believing that Bright's disease was present. In three cases—respectively four weeks, four days, and one hour before the convulsions occurred—this diagnosis was made out. In ten cases there was oedema, mostly of the lower extremities and the face. In the case where eighty-one attacks were observed, there Was no oedema; in another case, with sixty paroxysms, no albumen was found to be present in the urine. The results w'ere, that seven out of sixteen women recovered, nine died ; of the seven who recovered four were attacked during labour, and three afterwards. Convalescence was rapid in these cases ; after an interval of from four to fourteen days the albumen and casts were no longer present. In the fatal cases death took place during the convulsions in two, in a