SPECIAL DISEASES. 365 Abt.— Atresia of the Uterus. Wurt. Corr. CI., 28, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 312. Dr. Meadows.—Three Cases of Hysterotomy, with Successful Results. Med. Times and Gnz., March 17th, i860, p. 289. Meadows records three cases in which there was dysmenorrhea, con- nected with constriction of the internal os uteri. The strictured part was divided by the hysterotome, and a successful result obtained. Lefebvre. — On Inflammation in Connection with Considerable Elon- gation of the Cervix Uteri. Gaz. Heb., 1859, 11. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 184. Certet.—On the Hypertrophic Elongation of the Cervix Uteri. L'Union Med., 1859, 37. Depaul.—Hypertrophy of the Anterior Lip of the Cervix Uteri ; Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus ; Ecrasement. Gaz. Hop., Feb. 14, i860. J. Martin.—Hypertrophy of the Follicles of the Uterine Cervix. Bull, de Ther., vol. lvi, p. 313. Hard tumours in the parenchyma of the lips of the os uteri, and caused by hypertrophy of the mucous follicles, are, it is stated, more common than is usually supposed. The tumours are round, smooth, non-pediculated ; their surface is somewhat paler than that of the adjacent parts. For the removal of these tumours, Filhos' caustic is recommended. Huguier.—On the Hypertrophic Elongation of the Neck of the Uterus. Mem. de l'Acad. de Med., 1859, p. 279. Schmidt, vol. 106, This important memoir, a short notice of which appeared in the 'Year Book' for 1859, is here printed in extenso, illustrated with numerous well-executed lithographs. Prof. Scakzoni.—On Removal of the Vaginal Rortion for the Cure of Prolapsus Uteri. Scanz. Beitr., vol. iv, p. 329. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 185. Scanzoni has operated in sixteen cases. In nine cases the curved scissors of Siebold were used; in three, the galvano-caustic apparatus; in two, the ecraseur was employed, but the operation could not be com- pleted with it; in two cases, a tonsillotome was used. The ecraseur is in many cases objectionable, owing to the difficulty of controlling the course taken by the chain, and the possibility of implicating the peritoneum. Maissoneuve's " constricteur" is open to the objection that the wire is liable to break. The author thinks highly of the tonsillotome ; each case must, however, be considered by itself, and requires an appropriate treat- ment. Prof. Braun.—On Removal of the Vaginal Portion for the Cure of Pro- lapsus Uteri. Wien. Wohnschr., 1859, 3° and 3l< Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 185. Braun states that in about one out of every ten cases of prolapsus uteri it has been proved that the cervix is abnormally elongated. As a method of removal, Braun prefers the galvano-caustic apparatus.