SUDDEN AND VIOLENT DEATHS, ETC. superficial air-vesicles, with emphysema of various extent; apoplectic clots in the substance of the lungs, but no sub-pleural ecchymosis In con- clusion, the author points out the application of these facts to the solution of the various medico-legal questions which arise in cases of death by suffocation. Acke R.MANN.—Researches on the Influence of Suffocation on the Quantity of Blood in the Brain and Lunys, tyc. Virch. Arch., vol. xv, parts 5, 6. Canst, vol. vii, p. 10. From experiments conducted according to Professor Donders' improved method of rendering visible the condition of the circulation of the brain in the living animal, the author concludes that death by suffocation is always connected with anaemia of the brain, the appearances of hypereemia often observed after death being the mere result of a post- mortem mechanical sinking of the blood. The appearances of anaemia of the brain are most observable if the animal is strangled in such a position that the head lies higher than the body, and are even dis- tinguishable if the head is somewhat lower. In other organs the author recognises the ordinary appearances of death by suffocation, viz., dark-red injection of the trachea, dark marbled appearance of the lungs, which in their posterior and internal parts are of a dirty blue or blackish-red colour; ecchymosis of the pleura, and often of the anterior wall of the ascending aorta ; some emphysema of the margins of the lungs ; impletion of the pulmonary artery and right side of the heart with dark blood ; variable quantity and colour of the contents of the left side of the heart; and venous engorgement of the veins of the abdominal cavity. The proximate cause of the anaemia of the brain is to be sought for in com- pensatory changes of the quantity of the cerebro-spinal fluid; the other causes are the gravity of the blood, the contractility of the vessels of the encephalon, and the action of the heart. In reference to the hypersemia of the lungs of persons suffocated, it is maintained that it is consequent on the difference of atmospheric pressure which is exerted on the outer and inner wall of the thoracic cavity, by means of which is also explained the unequal fulness of the two sides of the heart; and further, that the inconstancy of the cyanosis of the veins of the face, neck, and head, dependent upon the retardation of the stream of blood in the thoracic cavity, may be accounted for according to the nature of the compression of the neck and chest, and the mode in which the air-passages are closed. As, therefore, the quantity of blood in the thoracic organs is merely an expression of the duration and mode of obstruction to respiration, and as, further, cerebral anaemia is a regular accompaniment of death by suffoca- tiou, we are justified in having recourse to apoplexia nervosa, or neural paralysis, as an explanation of those cases of suffocation in which paleness of the brain or lungs is observed. The circumstance that the proximate causes of death by suffocation—the retention of carbonic acid in the blood, and the exclusion therefrom of oxygen—leave behind them no changes that are capable of anatomical demonstration, justify the conclusion that there exist no characteristic signs of death by suffocation. Ciiamhert.—Medico-leyal Researches on the Differences of Burns during Life and after Death. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xi, p. 34a. 28