KBPOUT ON THE INSTITUTES Of MEDICINE, SOHELSKa (mid Wundt).—On the Chemical Irritants of Muscle. Cunst., vol. i, p. 72. W. Wundt.— On the Course of " Idiomuscular" Contraction. Anitl. 13er. d. deutschen Nnturf. u. Aerztc. Carlsruhe, 1859, p. 200. Kiihne's researches induced these authors to go over a great part of the same ground. They combat the assertion that there are chemical irritants to which the muscle, and others to which the nerve, alone replies. All chemical excitants, they say, have always essentially the same action upon muscle and nerve, the only exceptions to this rule being corrosive sublimate, and occasionally creasote ; and even these exceptions are explicable with- out the assumption of independent irritability of muscular substance— an hypothesis which is contradicted, according to these authors, by the circumstance that the twitching occasioned by directly exciting the mus- cular substance is invariably more marked the nearer the point acted upon is to the entry of the nerve. Kolliker.—On Idiomuscular Contractions. Amtl. Ber. d. deutschen Naturf. u. Aerzte. Carlsruhe, 1859, P- 2°2- Canst., vol. i, p. 76. Kolliker found that the muscles of frogs poisoned with woorara con- tract when common salt is sprinkled upon them, just as sound muscles do. This is likewise the case when the animals are poisoned with small doses of conia, whereas when large doses are employed, and paralysis and rigidity of the muscles and of the heart supervene, the chloride may prove inactive, whilst the electric current still continues to act, though feebly. E. Eaivre.—Experiments on the Abolition, after Death, of the Properties of the Nerves and Muscles of Frogs. Biblioth. Univers. de Geneve. Nouv. Per., vol. iv, p. 284. Canst., vol. i, p. 77. The author finds that the irritability of frogs' nerves is lessened, or absolutely gone, in from seven to twenty hours after death, whereas the muscular contractility has vastly increased ; and when the latter reaches its maximum, the nerve is no longer impressionable. The geutlest irritation, which was hitherto inoperative, now induces the liveliest contractions; and this state lasts several hours, when sensibility again gradually diminishes, and at length disappears as rigor mortis sets in. The maximum of muscular contractility occurs sooner when the motor nerve has been divided during life. Everything that weakens the nervous influence seems to enhance the muscular power. W. Turner, M.B.—Remarks on the Musculus Kerato-Cricoideus, a Muscle of the Larynx (Mer/cel's Muscle). Ed. Med. Jour., Feb., i860, p. 744. Merkel (in 1857) described a muscular slip occasionally extending be- tween the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage and the posterior margin of the inferior cornu of the thyroid, and thus forming one of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx. Turner searched for this muscle in thirty two cases, and his dissections revealed it in seven, being in the ratio of 218 per cent. In four of these it was on the right side only, in two on the left, and in one on both sides. The statement of Merkel, that the muscle exists only on one side, is therefore not absolutely correct. The muscle is not confined to the larynx of one sex; Turner found it in females as well as in males, but more frequently in the latter. It exhibits