112 RKPORT ON T1IK INSTl'l LTKS or MEDICINE. Milne Edwards. — Remarks on the Value of the Facta which are con- sidered by some Naturalists as sufficient to prove the Existence of Spontaneous Generation in Animals. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii, p. 23. L. PASTKUR.—Experiments on the so-called Spontaneous Generation. Compt. Rend., 6th February, i860, p. ,30,3. Flourens.—On the Coloration of the Bones of the Foetus by the Action of Madder, mixed with the Food of the Mother. Compt. Rend., p. 1010, 4U1 June, i860. Flourens laid before the Academy a fcetus, the bones and teeth of which were of a beautiful red colour. The mother (a pig) had madder added to her food during the last forty-five days of gestation. Neither the perios- teum, the cartilages, the tendons, the muscles, nor indeed any other part of the body, were at all coloured. The author remarked that the fact was exceedingly curious, seeiug that the mother communicates only indirectly by means of her blood with the foetus. The question as to whether or not there is a direct communication between the foetal and maternal blood, Flourens thinks is now answered in the affirmative by the specimens alluded to. Coste.—Observations relative to Hereditary Transmission. Compt. Rend., p. 1011, 4th June, i860. After Flourens had made the above remarks, Coste begged leave to direct the attention of the Academy to the interesting fact that the mother could not only transmit certain colours to the already formed fcetus, but even to the egg itself, and to the germ before it had undergone any of the transformations which it is necessary for it to pass through in order to develop the first lineaments of the embryo. The fact to which he alluded is, that in certain members of the salmon tribe, the females of which have the flesh deeply coloured, the eggs themselves are impregnated with the maternal colouring matter. If, for example, the females live under certain conditions, which cause their flesh to lose its rosy tint, the ova are also colourless, and the flesh of the fish developed from them is devoid of colouring matter. On placing these fish, however, in a favorable medium, their flesh acquires the natural tint of the healthy parent. Coste thinks, if colouring matters can be thus transmitted to the ova, we can readily understand how cancer, tubercle, and other such diseases, can be handed down from parent to offspring. At the same time it points out the still more important fact, that hereditary transmissions are not irreparable if we can but place the subjects of them under conditions contrary to those in which the taint was acquired. Joly and Musset.—New Experiments on Heterogeneity. Compt. Rend., p. 934, 21st May, i860. On a previous occasion,1 the authors called attention to the fact that snow, in falling to the earth, brings with it a small number of germs, but whether or not these germs are in time transformed into living organisms they did not state. At present they point out how organic matter, such as milk, urine, yeast, flesh, &c, when left to itself during a certain length of time, quickly becomes inhabited by low forms of life, which gradually disappear and are succeeded by higher organisms. 1 " Microscopical Studies on the Air," 1 Compt. Rend.,' 26th March, i860, p. 648.