491 FOOD. Keller.—On the Diseases prevailing in the Mirror Factories of Bohemia. Wien. Med. Wchnschr., No. 38. Paasch.—The Berlin Tailors' Workshops, and the great Mortality among them by Consumption. Pr. Ver. Ztg., N. F., vol. iii, p. 20. V1T. IMPRISONMENT. Van den Busch.—On the Physical and Psychical Influence of the Cellular System on the Prisoners at Christiania. Henke, part 1. From the experience of the prison at Christiania, the conclusion was unavoidable that the system of seclusion could not be continued -without exercising the most prejudicial influence on the corporal and mental con- dition of the prisoners. Unnatural perversion of the temper and dis- position, often accompanied with an excitement of the emotions and passions, sometimes with marked depression, were constantly observed, and suicidal attempts were frequent. The author concludes that isolation is a most valuable and necessary element of prison discipline whenever the period of detention is short, but, in the opposite case, is inapplicable. Erlenmeyer.—Does Imprisonment exercise a distinctly Injurious In- fluence on the Mind, and is this influence attributable to isolation ? Corr. blatt d. d. Ges. f. Psychiatrie, No. 3. Erlenmeyer maintains that, in most cases prisoners who become insane during their detention had exhibited more or less distinct indications of mental disturbance during their previous life. His conclusions, however, are equally decided as regards the unfavorable influence of solitary con- finement in rapidly developing, if not in originating, mental disease. Till. EDUCATION. Schraube.—Attention to Health in Schools; School-education from the Forum of Hygiene and Sanitary Police. Henke, vol. Ixxix, p. 244. Schreber.— On Children's Games, in their physical and mental aspect, and the necessity of regarding them in the light of Education. Jahrbuch f. Kinderheilk., vol. iii, p. 247. IX. FOOD. Dauglish.—On a new system of Bread Manufacture. Chemical News, May 5th, i860. Dr. Dauglish's process essentially consists in preparing dough in an atmosphere of carbonic-acid gas, the tension of which is equal to several times that of the external air, in such a manner as to yield, independently of fermentation, a bulky, elastic mass, capable of being baked into light, spongy bread. The advantages which the author claims are the following • it reduces the time necessary for the production of the dough from eight or twelve hours to less than thirty minutes, thus doing away with much of the unwholesome character of the bakers' occupation ; and secondly, it renders possible the production of palatable bread, from inferior or de- teriorated flour without the use of alum.