318 BBPOET ON BUEGBEY. Excision of Testis. —Report of Seven Cases. Med. Times and Gaz., May lath, p. 471. Two of these are eases of carcinoma, in which llic disease speedily re- turned; four of scrofulous disease, and one of cystic sarcoma. All the patients recovered from the operation. (d) Varicocele. LBB, H.—On the Radical Cure of Varicocele by Subcutaneous Incision. (Tract.) London, John Churchill. A paper read before the Medical Society of London, in which Lee re- commends the subcutaneous section of the dilated spermatic veins, after compressing them with a twisted suture above and below the point to be divided. Jobeut de Lamballe.—The Treatment of Varicocele. Gaz. des Hop., 101, 1859. Schmidt, No. 6, vol. 106, p. 325. .Tobert compresses and cuts through the vessels and their coverings with a loop of wire, the ends of which run through two holes in a heart- shaped piece of metal, and are secured to two small knobs. Erichsen.— Varicocele on both Sides; VidaVs Operation; Removal of Skin of Scrotum. Med. Times and Gaz., March 17th, p. 263. Case of Death from Rupture of a Varicocele. Lancet, March 24th, p. 295. In a case of double varicocele, after the veins had been obliterated by the twisted suture, Erichsen removed a large quantity of the loose skin of the scrotum. A man, the subject of varicocele, received a blow upon the scrotum, which became livid and enormously swollen. Much clotted blood was evacuated by free incisions, but fatal bleeding continued. The body having been injected with red size, one of the dilated spermatic veins was found burst. Treatment of Varicose Veins of the Legs, and of Varicocele. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 25th, p. 141. The obliteration of varicose veins in the legs is effected by Erichsen by compressing them between a harelip pin, which is passed beneath them, and a piece of bougie, which is placed superficially above the needle, the extremities of the needle and bougie being tied together. Care should be- taken not to transfix the vein. Injections of perchloride of iron are dangerous. He obliterates the spermatic veins with a silver thread, which is cast round them, and tightened so as to cut its way out by ulceration. IV.—Urethra. (a) Stricture and Rupture of the Urethra, and their Consequences. Wade.—Stricture of the Urethra; its Complications and Effects. A Practical Treatise on the Nature and Treatment of those Affections. London, Churchill, i860. The tenth edition, much enlarged, with engravings. Le Guos Clark.—Some Consequences of Stricture, and their Treatment. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. ij, p. 575. A clinical lecture, in which Le Gros Clark, in cases of impassable stric-