DISEASES OE CHILDREN. 421 Convulsions in Children.—Hardee employs the ethereal tincture of valerian, in closes of four to six drops every fifteen to thirty minutes, and has found it highly heneficinl in several cases. Atlanta Med. and Surg. Journ., Sept., i860. Dentition Syrup.—Delabaree's syrup is composed of fresh tamarind syrup, honey, and saffron. It is ruhbed on the gums of the infant. Ann. de Thcr., i860, p. 176. Erysipelas around the Umbilicus of Infants.—Legroux smears the affected part with glycerine; it is then powdered over with a mixture of equal parts of calomel, starch, and tan, to be renewed two or three times a day. Gaz. Hop., May 12, i860. Incontinence of Urine.—The extract of rhus radicans was successfully employed by Descotes in a case of incontinence of urine, combined with general atony, in a girl aged twelve. The medicine was given for eight days in form of pills, 5 centigrammes per diem. It was necessary to leave it off occasionally on account of its producing giddiness ; but the disease was after a time cured by its means. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 58. Debolt uses with advantage gum mastic, 8 drachms, mixed with a sufficient quantity of syrup, and divided into 64 or 128 pills. The whole to be taken within four days, i. e. 1 drachm morning and evening, two hours before or after a meal. In more than two thirds of the cases a cure is effected. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 97. Ncevus.—Bujalsky effected the removal of a naevus from the temple of a new-born child, by pencilling the growth twice a day for three months with creasote. Med. Zeit. Russl., p. 38. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 7U1, i860, p. 20. Ophthalmia Neonatorum.—Foucher employs a collyrium composed of glycerine, 30 grammes, and nitrate of silver, 10 to 20 centigrammes ; a drop of the collyrium to be applied by means of a camel's-hair brush, after v ashing the eye with a weak solution of chloride of soda (of the codex). Ann. de Thcr., i860, p. 252. Hooping-cough.—Hochsteker regards the oxide of zinc as a specific. To infants, two to four months old, 1 or 2 grains are to be given daily ; at a later age, 3 to 10 grains. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 258. Fleiiinger uses chloroform in combination with olive oil (equal parts) in a liniment, which is to be rubbed on the breast, sides, and back. If bronchitis is present, inhalation short of producing anEesthesia is recom- mended ; 15 to 20 drops on cotton, every two hours. Memorab. aus der Praxis, p. 30, 1859. Am. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., i860, p. 159. Ascherley gives to infants, six months old, nitric acid, diluted with tincture of canella, syrup and water, in increasing doses, 5 to 15 drops every three hours. Frictions of the chest by means of a stimulating embrocation. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 170. Affections of the Respiratory Organs in Children.—Jacobi finds sul- phuret of antimony of great service after the acute stage of pertussis, pneumonia, and bronchitis in children; 1 grain every two hours in