378 uepout O.N midwifery, ETC. Hall.—// Jfcftftd 0/ i.'tHe flair*, Two Inches Long, growing from the walls of the Female Bladder, and covered with crystals of triple phosphate ; Successful Removal by Mr. Hall, by Dilatation of the Urethra. Lancet (Reports), Nov. 10th, i860, p. 461. John Hunter.—On a case of numerous Calculi in the Bladder of a Female. Lancet, July 21st, i860, p. 57. Ed. Atkinson.—Case of Lithotomy in a Female, removal of Large Stone ;~Rapid [recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., August 25th, i860, p. 181. Baudy.—Lithotomy in the Female; Spontaneous Fracture of a Vesical Calculus. Brit. Amer. Journ., Jan., i860, p. 13, Breast. Electricity as a means of Reproducing the Lacteal Secretion. Bull, de Ther., 1859, T°l« *> P- 432- In two cases the application of slight currents of electricity, by means of the electro-magnetic machine, was successful. Rich. Marley.—On the Jetton of Belladonna on the Secreting Mammary Gland. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 29. Marley confirms Goolden's views as to the utility of belladonna inunctions for the purpose of arresting the lacteal secretion. Thos. W. Nunn.—Acute Inflammation and Abscess of the Breast. Med. Times and Gaz., May 12th, i860, p. 470. Nunn gives the results of his observations on nineteen cases of mammary abscess. In fifteen the suppuration occurred during lactation ; nine of these belonged to the first and second months of lactation, three occurred during pregnancy, and one was unconnected with pregnancy or lactation. The lower lobes contained the purulent collection in eleven cases, the upper in five. The author disapproves of all debilitating measures, particularly continuous poulticing. He insists on the im- portance of the recumbent position, and on the propriety of the early use of the bistoury. Dr. M'Clintock.—Some Remarks on Mammary Inflammation and Mam- mary Abscess. Dub. Med. Press, May 2d, i860, p. 339. In a very large proportion of fifty-four cases here related, some form of sore nipple preceded the inflammation. Hardness and tenderness of the base of the nipple show that mammary inflammation is imminent. Poulticing and rest are then the best means to be adopted. The author believes that inflammation and abscess very rarely result from distension of the breast alone. "Drawing the breasts," when the nipple is sore and inflamed, is to be reprobated. Rubbing or suction is only admissible to relieve or prevent over-distension, the nipple not being sore. The author does not think highly of belladonna as a local application to check the secretion of milk. Cold lotions are to be preferred to warm fomenta- tions and other local applications. In regard to the time for opening the abscess, late puncture has proved most satisfactory. The utility of the "compression" treatment is great, but after the evacuation of the abscess,