470 ItEPOltT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. lioxHAMEL. Analysis of spots of Meconium, Vernix Caseosa, and Milk, made for the investigation of a case of concealment of birth and charge of child-murder, Henkc, vol. xxxix, part i. In these analyses meconium was indicated by the presence of fat, cholestcrine, mucus, a fatty colouring matter, and the absence of biliary colouring matter and of the bile-acids. Vernix caseosa was inferred by the presence of fat, mucus, and carbonate of lime; the milk-stains exhibited the characters of the secretion of the mammary glands immediately after delivery, fat, sugar of milk, caseine, potash, lime, magnesia, hydrochloric, sulphuric and phosphoric acids, being detected. Hofmann.—Cases of Child-murder. Deut. Ztsch., vol. xv, p. 100. Schindlee.—The Remains of a Child found in Water. Casper, vol. xvii, p. 247. Erpenbeck.—On the question of the Life of the New-born Child. Casper, vol. xviii, p. 364. Fkickhofeh. — Medico-legal Opinion on a Case of Child-murder. Nass. Corr. Bltt,, vol. i, part 2. Hofmann.—Researches on Child-murder; Investigation in a case of Exposure of a Child. Henke, vol. lxxx, p. 191. Lisiann.—On some cases illustrative of the Lung-test, observed in legal obductions. (Cases of Death brf Browning in the Newly-born.) Monschft. f. Geburtsk., vol. xvi, No. 26. IJIMOKAL ASSAULTS. Penaud.—On the Intervention of the Medico-Legist in questions of Immoral Assaults (Attendats aux Mceurs). Paris, 1860, pp. 140. The purpose of M. Penard's paper is to establish an identity and Uniformity between the bar, the bench, and (he medical expert, in the use of terms, with a view to the definition of the offence. He proposes to divide immoral offences into those in which public or private decency is merely outraged (l'outrage a la pudeur), those in which an immoral assault is committed without rupture of the hymen (1'attentat a la pudeur), those in which the hymen is ruptured, but not to such an extent as to admit of complete penetration (tentative de viol), and lastly, those in which the rupture is so complete (viol). The work contains numerous records of cases, and the author discusses in detail every point of medical evidence which is likely to present itself. Haschek.— Violation of a Child Eight Months old. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. xxxii, No. 33. The offence was committed by a lad of eighteen. There were redness, swelling, and great tenderness of the labia minora and of the parts adjoining the orifice of the urethra, rupture of the hymen, framuliim labiorum, and of the perinoeum throughout, and laceration of the posterior wall of the vagina. Schuemacher.— The Crime of Rape. Siqiposed Violation of A. M— when in a helpless condition (Somnambulism). Oest. Zeitsch. vol. v, Nos. 67-9.