ItEPOET ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 398 reaction returning on the disappearance of the disease. His results as to the normal condition of the mouth-secretion agree with those of Seux, but differ from those of Gublcr and Guillot, who, as a rule, found the secretion in perfectly healthy children to be neutral. Jacobi (New York).—Course of Lectures on Dentition and its Derange- ments. Amer. Med. Times, Dec. 8th, ijtb, i860. The object of the author is to remove, what he conceives to be a popular prejudice, as to the fatal effects of teething. Betz.—On the Green Stools of Children. Mem. a. d. Prax., 7. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 202. The author rejects the opinion of Golding Bird and of Bednar, as to the cause of the green colour of the stools in infants. He states that the foeces may come from the rectum coloured green ; that when the faeces are acid, they very rapidly change their colour, and become green, after leaving the rectum; and that this change takes place more rapidly when the faeces are in contact with linen fabric (napkins) than when they are spread out on a glass plate, the contact with the atmosphere being more complete in the former than in the latter case. The clinical signification of the green stools of children is the presence of gastro-intestinal catarrh. Stoltz.—On Polypi of the Rectum in Children. Gaz. de Strasb., 1859. Journ. f. Kind., 5 and 6, i860. To this affection the author first directed attention in the year 1841. Since 1842 he has observed four cases in children, aged respectively 11, 4, 5, and 8 years. Thedor Clemens.—On the Membranous Inflammation of the Intestines (Entente Couenneuse) of Cows, and its relations to Intestinal Croup in Children; together ivith some Remarks on the physiological meaning of the Croupous Diathesis and its Prophylactic 1'reatment. Journ. f. Kind., 3 and 4, i860, p. 180. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 61. Theodor Clemens.—On the Intestinal Croup of Children. Journ. f. Kind., Jan. and Feb., i860, p. 30. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 312. The author has observed four interesting cases of intestinal croup, a disease not as yet accurately described. It does not accompany croup of the respiratory organs; it is quite a local affection, and not dangerous, except when large tracts of mucous membrane are affected. The fibrinous exudation may arrest the passage of the faices. When situated in the small intestine—the common event—there are diarrhoea, passage of half- digested matters, and frequently vomiting. Intestinal catarrh frequently precedes it.' During the height of the attack there are feverish exacer- bations ; when the disease persists a long time, emaciation and debility result. After the evacuation of the fibrinous exudation the cure rapidly follows. During the passage of these the patient is lively, and desirous of food, a circumstance distinguishing it from dysentery. It is more frequent in the country than in town populations. The author remarks on the fact that in the domestic animals, pigs, cows, &c, the intestinal and respiratory tracts are frequently the seat of plastic exudations ; and cases are cited to show how the intestinal croup of children is related to the