119 DISEASES OF WOMEN. was given in doses of a " granule" of digitnline ( = i milligramme, — 5i-T grain), every four, five, or six hours. The diet must at the same time be of a supporting nature. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 120. Temoin records the results of the employment of digitaline at the Maternite at Paris, under Delpech. It was given in doses of two to three or four " granules" per diem. The effect is not witnessed at once, but on the next day, or the day after that, when the frequency of the pulse becomes notably diminished. Of eight cases thus treated three were cured. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 124. Inertia of the Uterus.—In cases where, from a variety of circumstances, ergot cannot he employed, when the volume of the organ is augmented, and clots, &c, are retained, Delpech finds the special action of digitalis on the uterus very useful. It is to be employed in doses of fifteen to twenty drops of the alcoholic tincture. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 128. Freckles of Pregnancy.—When these persist after delivery, Hardy uses the following lotion :—Dist. water, 125 parts ; corros. sub., ^ part; spir. wine, 9 parts, to dissolve it; sulph. zinc, acetate of lead, of each 2 parts. If this fail, Bareges or Luchon water. Bull, de Therap., i860, April, 392. Med. Time3 and Gaz., June 9, i860, p. 583. Chronic Affections of the Ute7'iis.—The " Tintenquelle" of Medersdorf, a watering place near Wittenberg, Prussia, is stated by an anonymous writer in the ' Med. Times and Gaz.' (April 21, i860, p. 414) to be of great efficacy for the relief of chronic inflammation of the uterus. The water is a sulfo-aluminous chalybeate. Amenorrhea.—Riget recommends that iodine should be rubbed in over the abdomen in cases of menstrual suppression. Moniteur des Sciences, No. i3o. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 1, i860, p. 540. Leucorrhoza.—Pockels successfully employs secale cornutum and catechu, as much of each as will lie on the point of a knife, three times a day, in leucorrhoea from chronic diseases of the uterus. Varges' Ztst., 14, 7. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. ijth, i860, p. 270. Stomatitis Materna.—Bkandon, of Georgia, recommends turpentine, in doses of twelve drops, three times a day, for the cure of this affection ; castor oil or laudanum is combined, according to the state of the bowels. Am. Jour, of Med. Sc., April, i860, p. 576. This disease, " the result of a peculiar impoverishment of the blood, resulting from the tax upon its substance by the development of the foetus and subsequent lactation." Fountain has treated successfully by the "syrup of the phosphates." Am. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. i860, p. 89. Tannin Cylinders in Uterine Disease.—As employed by Becqueiiel, these are composed of—tannin 4 parts, tragacanth 1 part, and crumbs of bread ; they are made 5 millimetres in diameter, and 3 centimetres long. The cylin- der is introduced through the speculum into the uterus, by the aid of the long forceps, and retained in its place by charpie steeped in concentrated solution of tannin. In twelve hours the charpie is withdrawn, the cylin-