RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 219 mortality of pneumonic cases according to the treatment; period of disease when treatment was commenced; age, season of the year, medical constitution, type of disease, complications, sex, in the pregnant compared with the uniinpregnated state, and according to the previous condition of health, and the constitution of the patients. The paper, though not embracing nearly all the available data, may be referred to with advantage, but it is impossible to give its results in an abstract. Galassi.—On Fibrinous Broncho-pneumonia. Annali univers. di Medic, Milan, Dec. 1858. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 273. Towards the end of an epidemic of croupous bronchitis attending influenza, Galassi was led to employ cupping to the chest in the asphyxial stage, and with surprisingly good effects. OrroLZER.—On the Causes and Treatment of Dyspn&a in Pneumonia. Spitals-Zeitung, No. 8, 1859. Canst Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 273. Oppolzer recognises various causes for the dyspnoea. Where it depends on great congestion, or the rapid occurrence of exudation, is attended with very copious and bloody sputa, and with notable lividity V. S. is inchoated. V. S. cannot it is true diminish the total amount of exudation, but it causes it to take place much more slowly, and thus lessens the dyspnoea. Another cause of dyspnoea is attendant pleuritis for which leeches, warm fomentations, and opiates are serviceable. If suffocation threaten during the period of defervescence an emetic of antimony and ipecacuan must be given without delay, except in special cases, where an emetic would be dangerous. Owing to the greater amount of blood thrown on the remaining healthy lung an acute serous oedema is apt to occur, which is to be met in robust individuals by a free V. S. This is, however, to be foreborne if the pulse be irregular, and the respiration intermitting. The V. S. is to be followed by deri- vation to the bowels, skin, and kidneys; Oppolzer prefers the former Where the dyspnoea is more febrile than dependent upon local changes Oppolzer gives small doses of digitalis and ipecacuan., and directs ablutions with cold acidulated water. Traube.—Pneumonia treated with digitalis. Deutsche Klinik, No. 47, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 273. Traube remarks that digit, acts with very various rapidity in different cases. Generally, if given to a strong person, and wlhle the disease is at its height, it takes a much longer time to act than in chronic cases, or where an acute disease is near its close. Bkaxdes.—On the treatment of pneumonia. Virch. Archiv., 15 Vol., 1858 p. 210. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 273. Brandos is little inclined to confide in statistics of various modes of treatment in pneumonia from having found that in the same wards and under the same treatment the mortality which in 1856 had been 5-4 per cent., amounted, in 1857, to 31 per cent. V. S. is useful, but only in appropriate cases. In asthenic pneumonia and in infantile Pliunb. Acct. is a remedy of great value.