POISONS AND POISONING. 447 On analysing the green paint, it was found to consist of arseniate and acetate of copper. The patient was treated with iodide of potassium, about 2+ grains three times a day, during which treatment arsenic was contained in the urine in such quantity that its presence could be easily made evident by Marsh's test. A female, aged seventeen, inhabiting a small room coloured with Scheele's green, was attacked with languor, anorexia, headache, loss of flesh, attributed to amenorrhcea, and had been unsuccessfully treated by steel and a tonic regimen. Languor increased ; she became weaker, paler, and thinner, and finally lost her sleep, and became affected with nausea and vomiting. She was removed from her room, and put on iodide of potas- sium ; after which she recovered rapidly. A female, aged forty-five, contracted typhoid fever ; in five weeks she was convalescent, but did not recover strength. She had extreme anorexia, sleeplessness, excessive muscular weakness, with a clean tongue and natural pulse. This continued more than a month, and became aggravated by tremors of the hands, and racking pains in the feet. She rapidly got better on removing from her room. Arsenic was discovered in the urine. A female, aged twenty-four, was similarly attacked with typhoid fever ; after which, she fell into a state of debility, which lasted for two years and a half. The catamenia became irregular ; she lost appetite, became sleepless, and complained constantly of drumming in the ears. Neither quina nor iron did good; but she recovered immediately on leaving Vienna. On subsequently returning, the old symptoms re-appeared, accompanied with gastralgia, itching of the skin, with occasional nausea and vomiting. Arsenic -was discovered in her urine. The green colour was removed from the walls of her room ; she rapidly recovered. The author concludes, from his experience, that the arseniate of copper enters the organism by the lungs in the form of dust. " The better the colour is prepared, and the less the walls are swept, the less powder is detached. If, on the contrary, the colour contains little glue, or is old and deteriorated, a larger quantity of dust is detached." The author does not pretend to determine what are the characteristic symptoms of this kind of poisoning. He calls attention, however, to the dyspepsia, epigastric pain, the peculiar perversions of cutaneous sensibility,' and the headache, as being most distinctive. Brett.—On Arsenical Fly-papers. Pharmac, p. 404, Brett finds that two kinds of paper are commonly sold in this country —the papier moure, containing arsenate of potash, and another variety, in which the metal exists entirely as arsenious acid not combined with a base. The average per-centage of arsenic, estimated as arsenious acid, in the papers examined, including both varieties, amounts to 7.69, or 5.3 grains of arsenious acid in each paper. Metcalfe.—Medical Report of a Case of Poisoning by Arsenical Paper- hangings. Lancet, Nov. 17th, p. 494, and Dec. 1st, p. 535. On the 9th November, an inquest was held at Highbury, on the body of a child, aged three and a half years, whose death was preceded by symp- toms attributed to arsenical poison, viz., frequently recurring paroxysms