173 XEItVOUS SYSTEM. Kohtjer. Six Cases of Disease of the Spinal Cord, with Autopsies. Deutsche Klinik., 'No. 9—16. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 17. Kohler argues against Rokitansky's view of the pathology of tabes dorsalis, which is similar to Oppolzer's, and maintains, with Sachtlebcn and Frank, that it is the result of a slow inflammation. He has seen yellow softening in 2 out of 10 cases in the cervical part of the cord, which he regards as an exacerbation of the more chronic morbid action. Traces of inflammation of the membranes are constant. "Venous plethora of the abdominal and thoracic viscera is a predisposing cause. Weissiaxx.—On New Formation of Nerves in a Neuroma. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 18. The most important circumstance observed by Weismann was, that the tumour was made up of new nerve fibres, not springing from the old ones by subdivision, but developing themselves out of fusiform nuclei arranged in rows. Only a few of these new nerve fibres could have had any communication with the brain. L. Turck:.—On Degeneration of separate Columns of the Spinal Cord, developing itself without Primary Disease of the Brain or Cord. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 19. Turck's cases were 12—8 males and 4 females. The disease ap- peared first from the age of 22 to 58, and its duration varied from 1 to 8 years. The affected part was of fusiform shape, tapering above and below. The site of the chief amount of morbid change was about the lower dorsal or upper lumbar vertebrae. Superiorly, the disease extended sometimes even to the pons varolii and crura cerebri. In most of the cases there was no notable wasting of the cord as viewed externally. Microscopic examination, however, revealed more or less destruction of the nerve fibres, and numerous glomeruli. The nerve cells were not destroyed. The degeneration was always symmetrical, even when the lateral columns were affected. In 6 cases the roots of the nerves were carefully examined, and the result was, that they were generally affected, together with the corresponding-, column; though neither the age nor the intensity of the degeneration of the cord, nor the existence, nor absence, nor special seat of a previous meningitis seemed to have any constant influence in producing change in them. The symptoms of paralysis, pains, formication, anaesthesia, &c, were by no means completely accounted for by the morbid changes. Turck is inclined to think that there must have been other alterations in the minute structure besides those discovered. Turck lays down the following points of distinction between primary and secondary degeneration. (1) The latter commences from a more extensive focus of disease in the brain or cord. (2) The latter spreads upwards in the posterior columns, downwards in the anterior; the former spreads both ways in both columns. (3) Induration and gelatinous softening is absent or rare in the latter. (4) In secondary degeneration the process is limited to the affected columns, and (5) is rarely combined with exudation from the pia mater; the reverse holds true of primary in