REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. III) Death took place on the sixth day. There were at first vomiting and purging, which were succeeded at the last hy icterus, deep somnolence, with a rapid, weak pulse. At the autopsy no trace of gastritis was dis- covered, the brain and its membranes contained little blood, and the liver was large and lardaceous. Otberorgans healthy. Bloodwholly uncoagulated. BncKER.—Attempted Poisoning by Phosphorus Matches. Henke, vol. xxxix, p. 268. Canst., vol. v, p. 85. The heads of two phosphorus matches were surreptitiously administered by a maid-servant to a child set. 2, in eau sucrec. This liquid was found, on analysis, to contain no phosphorus in substance, although it was said to have at first smelt of it. At the trial, the court refused to entertain the possibility that the phosphorus had been converted into phosphoric acid, and acquitted the prisoner. The author, however, undertook on his own account further investigations as to the possibility of oxidation under the circumstances given. He found that a solution of sugar containing phos- phorus lost its smell in ten days, after which period no indications could be obtained by Mitscherlich's method, while the presence of phosphoric acid was indicated by nitrate of silver and molybdate of ammonia, and in much larger quantity when nitric acid had been previously added. Schaller.—Poisoning by Phosphorus. Gaz. de Strasbourg, No. 11, A man, set. 45, insane, took about 200 grains of phosphorus paste, fol- lowed by five or six grains of corrosive sublimate. He was seen immediately after by Schaller, who found his condition as follows:—Face red, eyes injected, gait unsteady, limbs trembling, rigors, voice altered, sensation of pharyngeal constriction, great thirst, breath impregnated with phos- phorus vapour, which was also disengaged from the dirty-gray coloured stools and from the urine. An emetic was at once administered, followed by Seidlitz water and mucilage. He was convalescent in five days. Kopf.—Case of Poisoning by Phosphorus. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., No. 47, 1849. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 296. In this case, in which a young woman, set. 24, swallowed the heads of six packets of lucifers, with suicidal intentions, death took place on the fourth day. The symptoms and post-mortem appearances are described in detail; they agree with those observed in former cases, witli the exception that there was no diarrhoea, the bowels being, on the contrary, confined, and after death no gangrenous destruction was found of the mucous mem- brane of the stomach, which exhibited only the redness of inflammation. ScnucHARDT.—Poisoning by Phosphorus. H. and Pf. Ztsch., N. F. vol. vii, part 3. Harting. —Poisoning by Phosphorus. Pr. Ver. Zg., N. F. vol. i, 52. Hauff.—On Fatal Poisoning by Phosphorus Paste. Wiirtem. Corr. Blatt., No. 34. Zkidler.— Case of Acute Poisoning by Phosphorus. Ann. d. Berliner Cliarite, vol. ix, p. 1. MULDER.— On the Discovery of Phosphorus in Poisoning. Archiv f. d. holl. lieitr., vol. ii, p. 358.