REPORT OX THE INSTITUTES OJ MEDICINE. 128 Dr. Messer.—Zfcyw/ o» the Condition of the Prostate in Old Aye. Trans. Med. Chir. Soc:, p. 145. Med. Times and Gazette, 19th Mav, 1860. The report is founded on the dissection of 100 specimens taken from persons over sixty years of age; The author arranged them as follows : First, those under four drachms' weight; second, those between four drachms' and six drachms' weight; third, those over six drachms' weight. By so doing, a broad division is at once made between those that are comparatively healthy—namely, the first and second classes— and those that are so altered as to be likely to affect the health of the patient, comprised in the third class. In the first class there are twenty cases, giving— Minimum. Maximum. Medium. Age 67 ... 87 ... 75.9 Weight .... 2 drs. 5 grs. 3 drs. 50 grs. . 3 drs. 10 grs. These cases, for the most part, differed from the normal state only in point of size, and offered no obstruction to the flow of urine. The presence of small black concretions was very general in these as well as in all the other cases. In four cases there were slight appearances of the formation of circumscribed tumours. In one case abscess was found associated with stricture of the urethra. In one the posterior lobe showed a tendency to enlargement; but it was difficult to say whether the enlargement was more intimately connected with the prostate or with a fasciculus of the muscular coat of the bladder. In the second class are forty-five cases, which may be considered normal in condition, and which give— Minimum. Maximum. Medium. Age 60 . . . 94 . . . 76.2 Weight 4 drs. ... 6 drs. . . 4 drs. 57 grs. None of these cases suffered from urinary obstruction connected with the prostate during life, although the bladder was often found fasciculated. In twelve of these circumscribed tumours were observed, for the most part only slightly developed ; in three, the posterior lobe was slightly en- larged ; in one, abscess was present, the consequence of general paralysis. In the third class are thirty-five cases, which give— Minimum. Maximum. Medium. Age 60 . . . 87 . . . 75.2 Weight . . . 6 drs. 15 grs. . . 48 drs. . 15 drs. 2 grs. In seventeen of these, the enlargement affected both lateral and posterior lobes; in fourteen, the enlargement existed chiefly in both lateral lobes ; in 1 one, the enlargement affected only the left lateral and posterior lobes ; in I one, enlargement preponderated in the left lateral and posterior lobes; in 1 one, enlargement preponderated in the left lateral lobe ; in one, enlarge- ment preponderated in the posterior lobe. Thus it appears that 35 per I cent, of all prostates after the age of sixty are abnormally large, 20 per I cent, are abnormally small, and 45 per cent, are within the limits of the I normal weight. This enlargement is principally caused by increase of the J fibrous element of the body; the glandular also being increased in amount, but not to the same degree. This new fibrous tissue is deposited in con- 1 centric layers, and 30 forms circumscribed tumours. The frequency of this fibrous deposit is shown by the fact that it was present in thirty-four out of thirty-five cases of enlargement, in twenty-seven of which it was