1G3 NERVOUS SYSTEM. when deposited in a wound, remains for an indefinite period oT time, locked up at the seat of injury, harmless and inert, until some exciting- cause occasions it to be absorbed into the circulation, whence it is carried to the brain and spinal cord to initiate its work of suffering and death. 3rd. The primary effect of the poison on the cercbro-spinal system is to depress its action. This is succeeded by great exaltation of the sensibility and irritability of the nervous system, which progressively increases until there is a total exhaustion of the vital forces, and death results from asthenia. 4th, 5th. The increased flow of saliva appears to be a conservative effort of the vis medicatrix to eliminate the poison from the system through the glands engaged in its secretion. Ligget gives, therefore, mercury both to eliminate the poison, and to reduce the extreme excitability of the nervous system. The case really appears to have been one of hydrophobia. Four and a half drachms of calomel were given in three days producing ptyalism, V. S. ad. Sxxxvi, having been premised. Recovery was complete by the twelfth day. Marce.—(Edema of tlie Brain. Bullet, of the Anat. Soc. Gaz. hebd., October 21st. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 11. Marce shows by experiment that the brain is capable of absorbing water to the amount of half the weight of the portion experimented with. He has constantly found also that in brain's whose membranes were infiltrated with serosity, the grey matter contained a larger pro- portion of water than in the normal state e. g. 85-90 per cent, in place of 80 per cent. Bond.—On the Pathology of Chorea. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev. July, i860. Bond contends that the defect in chorea does not consist in a perver- sion of the will, but in a diminution or abolition of it. He regards the movements as of a reflex nature, and therefore not attended with Fatigue. After reviewing the various phenomena he comes to the con- clusion, that " the peculiarity of the constitution of choreic patients consists in a tendency to generate a constant excess of nerve force, which in their ordinary state of health, when the will is strong enough to restrain unusual muscular movements, finds a vent in emotional manifestations, in activity of body, or more rarely in intellectual efforts." Tie remarks that such a constitution as this is radically a weak one, in a state of chronic irritability, aud quickly exhausted. Among the various causes he notices the effects of fright, the toxemic action of rheumatism, and in the young, and overfed, an excess of spontaneous muscular activity. Under the head of treatment he strongly recom- mends a well-arranged course of gymnastic exercises. These will enable the patient to get rid of his diseased consciousness, to break the incessant chain of nervous impulses transmitted through the cere- brospinal axis, and to restore to the enfeebled will its healthy control over all the other nervous functions. Luys.—Progressive Muscular Atrophy, with disease of the grey matter of the Spinal Cord. Gaz. Med. de Paris. Edin. Med. J., Sept. i860.