NERVOUS SYSTEM. 53 the effects of continuous currents on nerves, and of his inquiries in other kindred subjects. Electric irritation acts with an energy proportional to the distance from the muscle at which the nerve is excited. This law holds good with regard to chemical irritants also. A solution of common salt, which has no effect when applied low down on the nerve, induces tetanic spasms in the muscles when applied higher up. It frequently happens that the portions of the sacral plexus which are nearer the sections are less susceptible than those which are more remote from them. This phenomenon is connected, Pfliiger thinks, with the known course in which the nerve loses vitality, i.e. from the centre towards the cirumference. If a direct continuous current he transmitted through a certain extent of nerve, it may he demonstrated that the irritability of that portion of the nerve which lies in front of the portion through which the current passes is considerably increased ; such an increase occurs even when the electric current falls vertically on the nerve. As the excitability of a nerve is differently modified on the two sides of the spot at which the continuous current is applied, the author desig- nates the condition which exists at the negative electrode " catelectrotone," and that which appears at the positive electrode " anelectrotone." If the electrotonic alteration be propagated downwards from the part traversed by the current towards the muscle, it is called descending, and when in the opposite direction, ascending. The author names that condition which is found between the poles of the continuous current intra-polar electrotone, and that which is met with beyond these limits extra-polar electrotone. The muscular contractions following upon the stimulation of the portion of the nerve which is catelectrotonized in an ascending direction, are the more intense the nearer the part of the nerve stimulated is to the. intra-polar region. The exaltation of susceptibility rapidly diminishes as we recede from the negative electrode, and it at last entirely disappears. If the intensity of the polarizing ascending current be more and more increased, the contractions determined by the irritation of the extra-polar catelectrotonized spot rise to a certain maximum, but by a still further intensification of the current the contractions begin to diminish. This peculiar effect of very strong currents probably depends on incapacity of the intra-polar tract any longer to transmit the stimulus to the muscles. E. Pfluger. — On the Cause of Tetanus produced by Interruption of the Electric Current. A Contribution to our knowledge of the Law of Muscidar Contraction. Reichert's u. Du Bois's Ai-chiv, 1859, p. 133. Canst., vol. i, p. 100. If a descending electric current of moderate intensity be transmitted through a nerve for a short time and then suddenly interrupted, the ensuing tetanic spasm is engendered by the changes occurring in that part of the nerve which had previously been anelectrotonized. The " point of indifference " being situated about the middle of the nerve, sec- tion at that spot, the author inferred, would remove the tetanus. On the other hand, if an ascending instead of a descending electric current had been employed, the division of the nerve at the point alluded to would fail to remove the tetanus. Experiment confirmed the supposition.