50 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. The nervous excitation -which causes muscular contraction, the author adds, develops heat, generates mechanical force, and consumes chemical affinity; nnd as the electro-motive apparatus of the muscle operates through means of that affinity, it must get weakened, like a pile in which the acid has hecome weaker. In the torpedo, on the other hand, there is neither heat nor mechanical force produced, and the electro-motive appa- ratus is set up again, as it were, through the influence of the nerves, after the manner of a secondary pile. Matteucci.—On the Electro-motive Power of the Electric Organ of the Torpedo. Compt. Rend., vol. 1, p. 918, 21st May, i860. New Experiments on the same. Compt. Rend., August, vol. li, p. 193. In the first communication with the above title Matteucci establishes the three following propositions: 1. The electro-motive power of the organ of the torpedo, such as it has been defined, exists independently of the immediate action of the nervous system. He adds, that the electro-motive power of the organ is as great in animals killed with woorara as in those that have died without poison. 2. The electro-motive power of the oi-gan is notably increased, and this increase persists for a certain period when the nerves of the organ have been excited several times in succession, so as to obtain a certain number of successive discharges. 3. The electro-motive power of the organ is independent of the nature of the gas in which it has been left during twenty or thirty hours. In the second communication, Matteucci says that he has repeated his experiments relative to the second proposition, and that few electrical experiments can be more readily made with such uniform results. He adds that the nerves act in two different ways on the electric organ— (1) there is a nervous action which induces the secretion of the matters which form the electrical apparatus, and keeps it constantly charged; (2) there are nerves which exert their influence in producing the instan- taneous discharge of the electricity. Rumak.—Centripetal Action of the Constant Galvanic Current on the Nerves of Man. Compt. Rend., August, i860, p. 327. In applying a constant galvanic current to one of the lower limbs, in cases of hemiplegia, paraplegia, catalepsy, and other affections of the nerve-centres, Remak obtained visible effects in the opposite limb. As some may doubt that the movements in the opposite limb were due to the centripetal action of the galvanism on the nerve-centre, and may suppose that the electrical current had passed directly through the tissues from one limb to another, the author cites the following experiments. In 1858, a strong galvanic current was applied to the sciatic nerve of a man, aged 45, who during twelve years had suffered from incomplete paraplegia of the lower extremities, arising apparently from progressive atrophy of the spinal cord; little or no contraction was obtained in the limb whose nerve was being acted upon, whereas instantaneous and violent contractions in the opposite limb were observed. In 1859, the author made a similar experiment on a woman, aged 48, who, ten years before, was struck with complete paraplegia of the lower extremities, and incomplete paraplegia of the back and upper limbs.