NERVOUS SYSTEM. 1G7 occasionally present, or even delirium. The type is usually more or less markedly intermittent. rThe differential diagnosis is stated between essential brachial neuralgia and neuritis, rheumatic contraction, articular and muscular rheumatism, neuroma, organic neuralgia (from injuries), angina pectoris, and neuralgias, occurring symptomatically with diseases of the heart and large vessels, disease of the cord and vertebral column, disease of the liver, with syphilis and lead poisoning. In the matter of treatment he notices bloodletting, purgatives, baths, and poultices, anti-rheumatics, quinine and arsenic, narcotics, potass, iod., revulsives, flannel, acu- and electro-puncture, and section of the nerve. Quinine, he says, was almost always ineffectual. He seems to rely most on belladonna, used locally either by gentle inunction, endermically, or sub-cutaneously, and also internally in obstinate cases. Demme.—Contributions to the Pathological Anatomy of Tetanus. Leipsig, Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 25, Vol. hi, p. 23. Demme found in four cases of tetanus the white substance of the spinal cord protuberant on section, and the vessels in a state of hypersemia and distension. The connective tissue in the white substance was increased, and the grey matter compressed. Demme supports Rokitansky's views as to the concernment of undue growth of the connective tissue in various morbid states. Thus, in the spinal cord it may induce general paralysis, tabes dorsahs, and progressive muscular atrophy ; in the cortical matter of the brain it produces paralytic idiocy; in the medullary matter it causes hypertrophy, or when great retraction takes place, senile or one-sided atrophy; in the medulla oblongata it produces disorders of articulation, and of deglutition, or epilepsy; it also appears to be con- cerned in the changes occurring in Spedalsked and Pellagra in the cord, and in those which affect the retina in M. Brighth. The morbid growth is at first a soft, finely fluid gTanulous mass, beset with nuclei; subse- quently it becomes more solid, and assumes the character of a dense fibrous felt. Demme thinks that the pot. iod. is more likely to be useful in tetanus than any other remedy. Hackee.—On the Pathological Anatomy of the Choroid Plexus. Vir- chow's Archiv. xvi, 3 and 4. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 16. Hiickel describes the morbid changes occurring in the vessels, connec- tive tissue, and epithelium of the choroid plexus. The connective tissue may undergo (I.) Regressive metamorphosis, as fatty, pigmentary, cal- careous, or amyloid degeneration, softening and induration;—(II.) Pro- gressive metamorphosis, as hypertrophy, fat-development, and proliferous cystoid growth. Hypertrophy may show itself in the form of little hard granulations like the pacchionian, or of soft, translucent or reddish masses of varying size, resembling the structure of Collonema-colloid. Stein.—On the Pigment in the Cerebral Vessels. Virchow's Archiv., Vol. xvi, p. 564. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 25. Stein from his examinations of sixty-two cases is led to connect deposition of yellow pigment in the coats of the cerebral vessels, with a tendency to vascular rupture and extravasation of blood.