5 .MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. of tat, sugar, and starch, as the condition of the assimilating organs can appropriate without subsequent ill effects, and in such quantities of each that the excess, if any, be slightly on the nitrogenous side of the scale, will be generally the most advantageous, only remembering that the fat cannot be too free from rancidity or the sugar too pure; and especially should this be borne in mind in the feeding of children, while in all the use of gelatinous food should be but sparing. The use of fresh, lean meat, the author says, cannot be too strongly inculcated, but an abundance of pure, fresh air is of no less importance, for out-of-door exercise imparts an energy to the system often unknown before, and unattainable by any other means. The more rapid the tissue-change, provided its replacement correspond, the less effete matter will be in the system, the more vigorous will be the frame, and the better able to withstand the inroads of disease. Kirchhoff and Bunsen.— On Chemical Analysis by Spectrum-observations. Quart. Chemical Journ., Oct., i860, p. 270. Kirchhoff and Bunsen have availed themselves of the well-known power which many substances possess of developing peculiar bright lines 111 the spectrum of a flame, to found a new method of qualitative analysis of a delicacy hitherto unknown. The flame that has the highest tem- perature and the least illuminating power is the best for this purpose. As the result of their experiments, they state that neither the alteration of the bodies with which the metals may be combined, nor the variety of the chemical processes occurring in the several flames, nor the wide differ- ences of temperature which these flames exhibit, produce any effect upon the position of the bright lines in the spectrum which are characteristic of each metal, but that in the same flame the brightest spectra are given by the most volatile compounds of a metal. The higher the temperature of the flame, the more intense is the spectrum. The delicacy of this method of analysis is such that chloride of sodium can be detected by it in com- mon atmospheric air, and the authors imagine that the minute particles of salt floating about may serve to supply the wants of the smaller organized beings. Moreover, they think that there is another point of view, in which the presence of this chloride in the air is of interest, namely, if the spread of contagious diseases is to be sought for in some peculiar contact-action, it is possible that the presence of an antiseptic substance like chloride of sodium, even in almost infinitely small quantities, in the atmosphere, may not be without influence upon such occurrences. By continued observations one might be able to discover if the presence of salt in the air had any con- nection with the appearance and direction of the march of an epidemic disease. Kirchhoff and Bunsen have found lithium in the ashes of tobacco, of vine leaves, of the wood of the vine, and of grapes, as well as in the milk of animals. And Dr. Folwarczny has, by the same method of analysis, detected lithium in the ashes of human blood and muscular fibre. Our authors say, too, that it is only necessary to hold the end of a burnt cigar in the flame in order at once to see that it contains sodium, potas- sium, and lithium. In the waters of many mineral spi-ings, such as Dlirk- heim and Kreuznach, they have detected sodium, potassium, lithium, calcium, and strontium. The method of spectrum-analysis not only offers a mode of detecting with the greatest simplicity the presence of the smallest traces of certain elements in terrestrial matter, but also, its