293 HEAD. UK AD. I. INJURIES AFFECTING THE BEAJN. Bauciiet.— Wounds of the Encephalon. Paris, i860. (Tract.) Fractures of the Skull.—A Report of Ninety-four Cases of Fractures of the Skull. Med. Times and Gaz., May 26th, June 2d, gib, 16th, 30th. Craven, R. M.; Lunn, W. J.; King, K.-Fire Cases of Injury to the Head. Brit. Med. Jour., April 14, p. 284. Holtiiouse, C.—Case of Extensive Fracture of the Skull, with large Effusion of Blood between the Dura Mater and Bone over the Bight Cerebral Hemisphere. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 7, p. 4. Erichsen.— Case of Injury to the Head by a Fall Down Stairs ; Apparent Recovery ; Supervention of Acute Symptoms six months afterwards ; Death; Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., June 30th, p. 645. Luke.—Case of Recovery after Symptoms of Fracture of the Base of the Skull. Med. Times and Gaz., July 7, p. 5. Birkett.—A similar Case to the above. Med. Times and Gaz., July 7, P- 6. Adams. — Compound Comminuted Fracture of Skull; Trephining; Ery- sipelas; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 13th, p. 357- A boy, ret. 11, was kicked by a horse on the right side of his head. The skull was broken, and a large fragment was so firmly wedged beneath a sharp, projecting ledge of bone, that it could not be raised until the trephine had been twice applied. Wakley, Thomas.—Case of Extensive Fracture through the Base of the Skull, followed by Oozing of Serous Fluid from the Ear and Symptoms of Compression; Fatal Result. Lancet, May 19th, p. 492. Clarke, W. M.—Case of Severe Injury of the Head, causing Rupture of the Membrana Tympani and Copious Discharge of Serous Fluid from the Ear. Brit. Med. Jour., July 7th, p. 10. Ody, J.—Supposed Fracture at the Base of the Skull; Serous Exudation from the Ear ; Recovery. Brit. Med. Jour., July 14th, p. 543. Savory.—Fatal Encephalitis following a Slight Scalp Wound. Lancet, May 19th, p. 492. A bricklayer's labourer was struck on the vertex of the head by a brick, which made a wound one and a half inch long, cutting through the pericranium, and exposing, but not fracturing, the bone. The man was not stunned; he got up and walked to the hospital. On the eleventh day after the accident brain symptoms were ushered in with a severe rigor, and death took place on the seventeenth. The arachnoid sac, and subarachnoid spaces, and the meshes of the pia mater, on the right side, were filled with pus. Paget.—Scalp Wound; Supervention of Head Symptoms ; Trephining; Death from Abscess in the Brain. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 8th, p. 558. A case of laceration of the scalp and temporal muscle, exposing the