RBPOET ON PUBLIC HEALTH. IM Tlie author concludes, from his experience as physician to the Dread- nought Hospital, and as officer of health, that the theory that the Thames emanations form the source of disease is without foundation. He refers particularly to the fact that, during the hot weather of 1859, tMe public health was improving ; and that, although cholera was three several times imported in a virulent form from Hamburgh, and the persons affected admitted into the Dreadnought during the heat of July, when the river was extremely offensive, it spread no further. He insists, in emphatic language, on the injurious use which has been made of this fallacy, as a justification for the enormous cost and inconvenience of the main drainage scheme. Thomson.—Fourth Annual Report on the Health of the Parish of St. Marylebone, for 1859. In this report the same views as regards the absence of danger to the public health arising from the contamination of the Thames by sewage. Chevallier.—On the possibility of Collecting Fcecal Matters, the Drain- age therefrom {eaux vannes), and the Urine of Paris. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xiv, p. 97. M. Chevallier, in this paper, describes a method invented by Lesage Gotz, of Mulhouse. It consists in introducing and plunging into the cesspool a flexible hose, which is connected with a suction-pump worked by two men. By this means the contents of the cesspool are transferred into a butt containing about five hundred gallons. The gases which are disengaged in the operation are conducted by means of a tube furnished with diaphragms of wire gauze, for the purpose of preventing their explo- sion in the interior of the apparatus, into a small furnace of cast iron, where they are completely burnt by passing over burning charcoal. By this means a cesspool containing five hundred gallons can be emptied in twenty minutes, without the slightest annoyance either to the workmen or to the inhabitants. This method is now in successful operation in the towns of Cambrai, Lille, Mulhouse, St. Quentin, Valenciennes, and others. From the butt the faecal liquids are transferred into close canal boats con- structed for the purpose, which are minutely described by the author, in which they are conveyed to different parts of the country. The price actually realised is from two to three francs a cubic metre. Report of MM. Michat, Dubois, and Boudet, to the Conseil de Salubrite du Dep. de la Seine, on the Transformation of Fcecal Matters into Manure. In the vast depositories of fsecal matter at Paris, called " voiries," consist partly of solid matters, partly of "eaux vannes," the former constituting about 16 per cent, of the whole. It is proposed, after first disinfecting it with pyrolignite of iron, to mix the solid matter with plaster, in such quantity as to give it sufficient solidity to render it possible to dry it rapidly. This is again mixed with additional quantities of foecal matter, and the process repeated four times. The final dried product contains, according to analysis, 2*05 percent, of nitrogen. The "eaux vannes" are to be mixed with an equal volume of lime-water and allowed to stand. A deposit soon forms, which contains 177 per cent, of nitrogen and y+S of phosphoric acid.