REPOltT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 238 throughout the body, with peculiar deposits in the liver and spleen, and peculiar cell-furinations in the blood. The spleen weighed 4 lbs., was of a dark bluish brown colour. The liver was also much enlarged. The kidneys were granular. The deposits in the liver and spleen presented exactly the same elements as were found in the enlarged lymph glands. Dh Ogle records also a case of enormous enlargement of the various lymph glands throughout the body. Basiiam.—Clinical Lecture on Renal Abscess. Lancet, Jan. 14th. Basham in a clinical lecture on renal abscess, relates a case at length in which the symptoms pointed very plainly to the existence of a calculus in one kidney, there causing inflammation and purulent accu- mulation. The urine, which usually contained pus in notable quantity, now and then for several days together became quite clear, during which time the patient suffered from a sense of tightness, distress, and tenderness in the left lumbar region, with sympathetic pains in the groin and lower abdomen. These symptoms were immediately relieved by the re-appearance of pus in the urine. During the period when the ureter of the diseased kidney was obstructed, and the pus accumulated in the pelvis, the left lumbar region became sensibly fuller, the left iliac space filled up, the abdomen became larger to the left side and unsymmetrical. A distinct sense of fluctuation could be detected, and the most acute suffering was induced by making pressure on the left side, the pain always darting pungently to the pubes in the direction of the neck of the bladder. Hake.—On Moveable Kidneys. Med. T. and G., Jan. 14th. Hare publishes some additional observations on moveable kidneys. Referring to his former paper on the subject, and to that of M. Fritz, he states that these give altogether a total of 40 cases more or less perfectly recorded of persons affected with mobility of the kidney. Of these 3 5 were females, and 5 males. It appears that the right kidney is much more liable to be moveable than the left, and it is unusual for both kidneys to be moveable. This was observed in only 8 out of 3 5 cases, but Dr. Hare is inclined to think that in some instances the mobility of one of the kidneys may have been overlooked. Testelin.—On Syphilitic Affection of the Liver. Journ. de Brux., May, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 50. Testelin comes to the following conclusions respecting syphilitic affection of the liver. (1) In the majority of cases the high mortality of suckling children, affected with hereditary syphilis, depends on Specific disease of the liver. (2) This morbid alteration, characterised in the dead body by the presence of fibro-plastic elements in the parenchyma, reveals itself during life by disturbance of the digestive canal co-existing with the ordinary signs of hereditary syphilis, and by a considerable enlargement of the liver demonstrable by palpation or percussion. (3) In most cases of syphilitic liver-affection death is caused by a suddenly supervening peritonitis. (4) I" rare cases death can also be caused by passive ha?inorrhagCB, which may depend partly on the crasis of the blood, partly on the disturbance of the circulation occa- sioned by the liver affection.