369 SPECIAL DISEASES. Uluich.—Fibrous Polypus of the Uterus; Excision of the same; Death. Perforation of a Fallopian Dropsy. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., i860, p 8~ Golds'chmidt.—On Fungosities of the Cavity of the Uterus. Stras- bourg, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 420. Tuudeau.—On Granulations of the Lining Membrane of the Uterus. N. 0. Med. and Surg. Journ., Jan., i860. Am. Med.-Cbir. Kev., March, 1860, p. 329. The author describes two varieties—1, small tumours with wide base, soft, easily detached, growing near the Fallopian tubes—cellulo-vascular vege- tations ; 2, pediculated vegetations, of greater density, elastic, smooth, smaller than the first, generally found in the neck and inferior segment of the uterus—cellulo-fibrous vegetations. Peri-uterine Diseases. Dr. M'Clintock.—Case of Peri-uterine Hcematocele. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., June 15th, i860, p. 179. Prof. Braun.—On Peri-uterine Hcematocele and its Treatment. Wien. Aerzt. Zeit., 1 and 4. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 57. The source of the haemorrhage is various—the ovaries, the tubes, the broad ligaments, extra-uterine pregnancy, hsematometra, and reflux of blood through the tubes. The causes of the haemorrhage also various—excess in coitus, bodily movements during menstruation, &c. The blood coagu- lates partly or entirely, and becomes enclosed in a kind of cyst. Quantity varies from a few drachms to several pounds. As regards the diagnosis, it is of assistance to know that it generally occurs during menstruation or after suppression. As regards treatment, puncture from the vagina is considered a judicious method of treatment when the haematocele is recent and not intra-peritoneal. Local applications of cold, leeches, &c, are advisable; purgatives, quinine, iron, &c, internally. Voisin.—Retro-uterine Hcematocele and Non-encysted Effusions of Blood into the Peritoneal Cavity of the Pelvis considered as Accidents of Menstruation. 8vo, Paris, Bailliere et Fils, i860, pp. 368. Voisin recognises only one form of retro-uterine hsematocele—that in which the blood is effused into the peritoneal cavity, there becoming enclosed in a sac. The blood so effused originates, he believes, in an accident of menstruation. The causes of the haemorrhage are—congestion of the Graafian vesicles during menstruation, reflux of blood from the uterus into the tubes, or tubal haemorrhage. The physiological state is favorable to the occurrence of haemorrhage; but the pathological ones render it more liable to occur, such as venous congestion of the ovary, undue sexual excitement, or altered condition of the blood itself. The course, symptoms, and diagnosis of the affection are successively considered, and the histories of thirty-five cases are appended. The work contains all the most recent information on the subject. Gallahd.—Memoir on Spontaneous Peri-uterine Hcematocele. Arch. Gen., Oct., Nov., and Dec, i860. The author offers the results of his researches on the origin, mode of 24