NERVOUS SYSTEM. 43 the posterior columns of the spinal cord were divided, and then a hind limb cut away, except that the nerves were left entire. In the other series the spinal cord was divided after the limb was amputated. In both series the sensibility lasted longer than in animals in which the posterior columns were not divided. For instance, in rabbits, instead of twenty or twenty- two minutes, the sensibility lasted thirty or thirty-five. In a rabbit in which the spinal cord was in a normal condition, and in which the toes, after the partial amputation of the limb, were losing the last appear- ance of sensibility, he observed a notable return of this vital property take place on dividing the posterior columns of the spinal cord in the dorsal region. This shows that when sensibility seems to be lost in a part de- prived of circulation, it is not completely so. Arthur E. Durham.—The Physiology of Sleep. Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. vi, p. 149. From an experimental inquiry into the physiology of sleep, the author deduces the following conclusions : 1. Pressure of distended veins upon the brain is not the cause of sleep, for during sleep the veins are not distended; and when they are, symp- toms and appearances arise which differ from those which characterise sleep. 2. During sleep the brain is in a comparatively bloodless condition; and the blood in the encephalic vessels is not only diminished in quan- tity, but moves with diminished rapidity. 3. The condition of the cerebral circulation during sleep is, from phy- sical causes, that which is the most favorable to the nutrition of the brain tissue; and, on the other hand, the condition which prevails during waking is associated with mental activity, because it is that which is most favorable to oxidation of the brain substance, and to various changes in its chemical constitution. 4. The blood which is derived from the brain during sleep is distri- buted to the alimentary and excretory organs. 5. Whatever increases the activity of the cerebral circulation tends to preserve wakefulness; and whatever decreases the activity of the cerebral circulation, and at the same time is not inconsistent with the general health of the body, tends to induce and favour sleep. Such circumstances may act primarily through the nervous or through the vascular system. Among those which act through the nervous system may be instanced the pre- sence or absence of impressions upon the senses, and the presence or absence of exciting ideas. Among those which act through the vascular system, may be mentioned unnaturally or naturally increased or decreased force or frequency of the heart's action. 6. A probable explanation of the reason why quiescence of the brain normally follows its activity is suggested by the recognised analogical fact, that the products of chemical action interfere with the continuance of the action by which they are produced. Prof. A. Kussmaul.—Researches on the Mental Condition of the New- born Child. pp.40. Heidelberg, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 278. Kussmaul made a series of experiments with the view of ascertaining the effect of external impressions on the new-born infant. They were— 1. On the sense of taste, and feeling of nausea. The experiments were made by means of solutions of sugar and quinine (of the latter