392 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Stelmvag von Carion.*— On the Treatment of Ophthalmia Neonatorum, $'c. Jahrb. t. Kind., vol. i, 18159. Canst, vol. iv, p. 384. In cases attended with much swelling and inflammation, a compress carefully applied over the eye is recommended. A lotion containing nitrate of silver (live to ten grains to the ounce) is at the same time used. ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. Breiski'.—Observations on Stillborn Children. Prag. Viertel., 1859, 175. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 193. Five cases are here related. In Case 1 the cord was prolapsed and pulseless, and the inner part of the trachea, the hronchi and their ramifi- cations, were filled with a thinnish, yellow-brown fluid, which under the microscope showed particles of meconium, with numerous epithelial cells and cholesterine. The liquor amnii had been aspired. In Case 2 meconium m was found in the air-passages. In Case 3 meconium was also found in the air-passages, and there were dropsical effusions into the serous cavities, inter- meningeal extravasation, and slight laceration of the left tentorium cerebelli. In Case 4 the pelvis of the mother was contracted ; delivery natural, after thirteen hours' labour; laceration of the left tentorium cerebelli and transverse sinus ; inter-meningeal haemorrhage ; meconium in the air-pas- sages. On these four cases the author remarks that the first two were cases of what Schwartz designates as " asphyktische intoxikation," whilst in the other two, besides the injuries described, and which in them- selves were perhaps fatal, there was probably also a simultaneous asphyxial condition present. In a fifth case the child died a quarter of an hour after birth, after a few imperfect respiratory efforts: the diaphragm on the left side was imperfectly formed, there being a large opening through which the pleural and abdominal cavities freely communicated. Hecker.—On Intra-uterine Emphysema of the Lungs. Virchow's Arch., 1859, 535. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 319. A very interesting and remarkable case of intra-uterine respiration. T. Gaillard Thomas.—Lecture on Suspended Foetal Animation. N. Y. Jour. Med., May, i860, p. 355. The causes of suspended fcetal animation ai-e—1. Asphyxia. 2. Syncope. 3. Cerebral congestion. 4. Apoplexy. When asphyxia is present, the Marshall-Hall method of treatment is strongly recommended; and a case is cited in which a stillborn child was recovered after an interval of up- wards of fifteen minutes. If the heart, after fifteen to thirty minutes, does not act, there are no reasonable grounds for hope of recovery; but should the heart act ever so feebly, this limitation of time does not hold good. In asphyxia, the face is dusky, the lips purple and pouting, the eyes glassy, the limbs not flaccid. In syncope, there are paleness, flaccidity of the limbs, and a sunken, cadaverous hue of the face. In this case, also, respiration is to be induced, the cord not to be separated, and the blood to be pressed into the child's body from it. In cerebral congestion, the face is blackened and congested, the head swollen. The treatment is to let blood flow from the severed cord, to establish respiration, and, as in asphyxia, to avoid the warm bath. Cases of apoplexy are rare.