EBPOBT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 21G that coffee, milk, fat, alcohol, beer, and wine are the foods which lessen the action of tho skin, while tea and vegetable food increase it. Further, if the perspiration have a marked acid odour, he gives alkalies or their salts, and regulates the amount of starchy food; if this is not the case he linds acids most useful. J. E. Morgan.—On the non-prevalence of Pulmonary Consumption in the Hebrides, and along the N. W. of Scotland. JJrit. and For. Med.- Ch. Rev., Oct. i860. Morgan draws attention to the rarity of phthisis along the N.W. coast of Scotland, as established by his own observations and the ex- perience of others. He shows that this exemption is the more striking as, according to Dr. Greenhow's researches, the mortality from phthisis is rather greater in the healthiest rural, than in the most unhealthy town districts. The possible causes are alluded to as (1) a mild and moist climate, (2) the exposure of the natives to the weather, (3) their clothing and diet, (4) the amount of ozone in the air, (5) some peculiarity of race, (6) the construction of the Highland cabins, and the manner in which they are heated. He inclines to believe that the latter cause is the most efficient, and gives reasons for the opinion that the inhalation of peat-smoke has much to do in preventing or checking the develop- ment of pulmonary tuberculosis. In Oban where coal is chiefly used as a fuel, phthisis is by no means uncommon. FoNSSAGRrvES.—On the Treatment of Phthisis in its febrile stages by the administration of Tartar Emetic. Lond. Med. Rev., Sept. Fonssagrives states that tartar emetic employed for a considerable period checks the local congestions or inflammations which are deve- loped around the crude tubercles, and prevents the tubercles from passing on to softening and suppuration. Opportunity is thus given i'< >r the use of cod oil and tonics. The appetite, digestion, and nutrition improve notably under the use of the tartar emetic. Wagner.—Numerous Bones in the Lungs. Archiv. f. Phys. Heilk., iii, 3, p. 411. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 33. Wagner found about 50 small bones, having true compact bone structure, scattered through both lungs of a male, »t. 26, dying of chronic endocarditis. They varied from the size of a millet seed to that of a pea, were of irregular, roundish form, not specially connected with bronchi, or vessels, nor did they lie exclusively in the interlobular tissue. Freund.— The Connection of certain Pulmonary Diseases with primary anomalies of the Costal Cartilages. Erlangen, 1859. Canst . Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 33. , . . . , Freund endeavours to show (1) that tuberculosis of the apices of the lungs may arise from primary early ossification of the first costal cartilage, which produces stenosis of the thorax and immobility of the ribs; and (2) that by primary elongation of the costal cartilages and the enlargement of the thorax thence resulting, vesicular emphysema may be produced.