92 ltKPORT ON Til E INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Dr. Folwakczny.—Chemical Contribution to the Theory of Icterus. Zeitschr. d. Wien. Aerztc, No. 15. Do., Communications from the Path. Ghent, Laboratory, No. 6. Canst., vol. ii, p. 77. 1. In three cases of icterus, Fohvarczny tested the urine for biliary acids, without being able to detect a single trace. The same negative re- sult followed his examination, in six cases, of normal urine. A similar result was previously obtained by Scherer. 2. In the cases of icterus, ten-grain doses of benzoic acid were given, and it reappeared in the urine in the form of hippuric acid. This and the former experiment, he thinks, prove that the now generally received opinions regarding the nature of icterus are erroneous, more especially as regards the presence of the biliary acids in the urine in cases of jaundice. 3. The urine and fseces in five cases of colica pictonum were analysed, and in the urine of one lead was detected. The patient who voided this specimen of urine was then treated with iodide of potassium, and the lead soon disappeared from the urinary secretion. 4. Some experiments were made on the absence of chlorides from the urine in certain diseases. The following case is one of special interest. The urine of a patient labouring under an attack of acute articular rheu- matism was acid, of a specific gravity of 1030, contained an excess of urea, uric acid, and phosphates, and an average amount of chlorides. One day the chlorides suddenly disappeared from this urine, and at the same time a small quantity of albumen was detectable, and on the same day an attack of pericarditis came on. Hoppe says that the absence of chlorides in certain cases of disease arises from there being none given with the food. Our author's experiments, however, show that such is not the case ; for in the urine of a patient who was taking abundance of salt with his food (salted soup, salted meat, and salted water) no chlorides could be detected. MILK. F. A. Fluckigeu.—On the Estimation of the Quantity of Fat in Milk. Schweiz. Zeitsch. f. Pharm., No. 5, p. 103. Boudet and Boussingault.—On the Estimation of Milk-sugar in Milk. Journ. de Pharm. et de Chem., vol. xxxiii, p. 416. M. A. Baines.—The Comparative Properties of Human and Animal Milks; a new Theory as to " Essences,'' and a new Interpretation of some Physiological Fads. Churchill, i860. Pamphlet, pp. 31. F. Hoppe.—Researches on the Constituents of Milk, and on their Proxi- mate Decomposition. "Virch. Archiv, vol. xvii, part 5 and 6, p. 417. Canst., vol. i, p. 209. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 3. Hoppe informs us (1) that it not unfrequently happens that perfectly fresh cow's milk has an acid reaction, and that this does not arise from the presence of carbonic acid; (2) that the normal milk of the cow con- tains a certain quantity of albumen as well as casein ; (3) that the sugar in milk ferments even when the oxygen of the air is prevented from coming in contact with it; (4) that, in fermenting, the sugar passes di- rectly into lactic acid, without undergoing a previous metamorphosis}