EBPOET ON BVEGBEY. SURGERY OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. t. General Manuals, Treatises, Reports, Lectures, §-c. Bell, B.; Watson, H.—Quarterly Report of Cases Occurring at the Edinburgh Eye Infirmary, Jan. ist to March ist, i860. Ediub. Monthly Journ., July. KUciiler.— Twentieth Report of the Ophthalmic Institution and Opera- tive Clinic connected with it, together with Remarks on my Prin- ciples of Action. Deutsche Klinik, Oct. 6, p. 391. In his observations on strabismus, Kiichler protests against the extreme refinement which the details of operations for the relief of this deformity have undergone. Chloroform is usually not merely superfluous, but even injurious. The horizontal posture is not essential when the operator is ambidexter. The upper lid only requires a speculum. An assistant, with a kook, &c, to fix the eyeball, is not wanted. In most cases, Kiichler seems to think it necessary to operate on both eyes, and he rejects the partial division of the tendon, recommended by V. Graefe in certain cases. In the operation for advancing a tendon which has gone too far back (as in divergence following the division of the muse. rect. int. for converging strabismus), he brings the globe into the desired position by closing the conjunctival wound on its nasal side with sutures. Winthek.—Manual on Diseases of the Eye. 8vo, ist part. Giessen, 1859. This seems chiefly intended as a guide to those commencing the study of eye diseases. Siciiel, J.—Hippocrates on Vision. Paris, Bailliere et Fils, i860. Square, J.—Address on Ophthalmic Surgery. Read at the Annual Meet- ting of the Brit. Med. Ass. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 15, p. 715 ; 22d, p. 733 j 29th, p. 751. 2. Ophthalmoscope. Tayloh, B. A.—Cases Illustrative of the Use of the Ophthalmoscope. Brit. Med. Journ., March 10, p. 185. Walton, Haynes.—Lettsomian Lectures on the Oj)hthalmoscope and its Application. Delivered before the Med. Soc. of Loudon. Brit. Med. Journ., June 16, p. 451 ; Aug. 4, p. 597 ; 18th, p. 643. 3. Orbit. Demarquay.—On Foreign Bodies in the Orbit. L'Union, 121, 123, 1859. Schmidt, No. 4, vol. 106, p. 80. This contains a description of the various forms of penetrating wounds, and a large number of selected cases. Walton, H.—Blows on the Eyeball and about the Orbital Region. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 521, May 26. Treats of the theories' which from time to time have prevailed respect- ing those cases where partial or complete blindness has followed blows on the orbit or eye, accompanied very slight or no outward sigii3 of