100 BEPOllT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. solution of nitric ncid even although boiled, but insoluble in a mixture of acid of greater strength. Jones has also shown that albumen is not always precipitated from very acid urine upon the application of heat, and Beale thinks this depends upon the decomposition of the phosphates by the nitric acid, and the consequent development of free phosphoric acid, in which albumen is I'reely soluble. lie relates some experiments which led him to this conclusion. A weak solution of albumen was treated with a few drops of chloride of calcium, and afterwards with a little ammonia. After having stood for twenty-four hours, it was filtered. In this manner, any soluble phosphates present were removed. The solution was then tested as follows:—i. Albumen was precipitated by the application of heat, or by the addition of nitric acid, as usually occurs. 2. A very small quantity of dilute nitric acid did not prevent the coagulation of the al- bumen by heat. 3. After the addition of a few drops of phosphoric acid, the fluid no longer coagulated on being boiled. In this last case, it is evident that the presence of the phosphoric acid was the cause of the heat failing to precipitate the albumen. At the same time, Beale adds, that it must be admitted that there are several facts connected with the behaviour of weak solutions of albumen with acid, and under the in- fluence of heat, which are not satisfactorily explained, and forms of al- bumen having different reactions are from time to time met with ; so that the whole subject requires further investigation. When speaking of saccharine urine, Beale says, that if a few drops of urine of s. g. 1050 be allowed to evaporate spontaneously on a glass slide, fine crystals of grape sugar may be obtained. These crystals are beautiful objects when examined by polarized light. From experiments made by the author with reference to the practical application of Trommer's test, and Fehling and Barreswil's solutions, he drew the following conclusions : 1st. That if urine contain chloride of ammonium, urate of ammonia, or other ammoniacal salts, the sub-oxide of copper would not be precipitated if only a small quantity of sugar were present. 2d. That unless there be a considerable quantity of one of the above salts present (in which case the blue colour will remain), the mixture will change to a brownish hue upon boiling, but no opalescence or precipitate of sub-oxide of copper will occur. When only a moderate amount of sugar is present, he has been unable to obtain a precipitate, under these circumstances, by the addition of potash and prolonged boiling. 3d. In many cases where the precipitation of the sub-oxide of copper is prevented by the presence of ammoniacal salts, the addition of potash to the solution, and subsequent boiling, causes the production of a pre- cipitate with the evolution of ammoniacal fumes. Hence care should always be taken that a considerable excess of free alkali is present. 4th and lastly. When only small quantities of sugar are present in the urine, and the precipitate is "not decided, the fermentation test should be resorted to. Lecture vi, is devoted to the anatomy of the kidney ; and from his re- searches on the basement membrane of the tubes and of the matrix, Beale has come to the following conclusions:—1st. In the cortical portion of the kidney, there is no evidence of the existence of a "fbro-cellular ma- trix," as was previously pointed out.—* Quain's Anat.,' vol. iii, p. 327. 2d. The fibrous appearance observed in thin sections of the kidney which