463 POISONS AND POISONING. Bucfjner.—Case of Death by Chloroform. Virchow, vol. xvi, pp. 5, 6. Canst., vol. v, p. 3. A photographer, set. 40, had suffered for six or seven years from gall- stones, on account of which he had taken gradually increasing doses of morphia, to the extent of twelve grains daily, but had subsequently dimi- nished his dose to a grain and a half. From this time, whenever the pain increased, he was in the habit of inhaling in the course of a few days four to five pints of ether, and from eight to thirty ounces of chloro- form, which afforded him relief, but subsequently produced crapular pains, which drove him again to the laudanum. He had, in the mean time, several attacks of mania, but showed himself to be a capable work- man during the intervals. One morning Dr. liuchner found him in bed in the condition produced by long inhalation of chloroform, and breath- ing tranquilly ; an hour afterwards he died. Subsequently all the organs were found unaltered, except that the gall-bladder contained seventy-two small gall-stones, and one as large as a bullet was found in the gall- duct. Friedberg.—Means of Becovery in danger of Death from Chloroform. Virchow, vol. xvi, parts 5, 6. Canst., vol. v, p. 113. The author had the opportunity, in the case of a child, set. 4, to whom chloroform was administered for the extirpation of an encysted tumour of the eyelid, of testing the utility of various means of resuscitation. Irritation of the skin had no effect, inflation by the mouth was not tried, the methodical compression of the belly had no result. Recourse was then had to Faradization of the diaphragm. One of the excitors of Dubois-Reymond's induction apparatus was applied to the phrenic nerve at the point at which the omo-hyoid muscle crosses the outer margin of the sterno-cleido-mastoid, and the other excitor on the lateral wall of the thorax in the seventh intercostal space, and pressed as deeply as possible against the diaphragm. The Faradization was employed sometimes on the right side, sometimes on the left, and each time "the circuit was kept closed for a time corresponding to a deep inspiration. The current was ten times interrupted, when an archina; of the belly,' produced by the contraction of the diaphragm, and a short hiccough, took place. When the current was interrupted, by way of experiment, a weak, spontaneous inspiration took place, which was followed by several others! After the third the countenance suddenly reddened, and the radial pulse became perceptible. The induction-stream was then discontinued, and although the breathing and pulse became weaker in consequence, they could be kept up by methodical compression of the belly, accompanied by friction, cold aspersions, and application of ammonia to the nostrils. Both functions were completely restored in twenty minutes after the commencement of asphyxia. » Kidd. On the nature of Death by Chloroform. Med. Gaz., May iath. Dr. Kidd shows that, while no deaths have occurred in consequence of large amputations, resections, ovariotomy, or ligatures of large arteries and but few in the practice of midwifery, two thirds of the whole number recorded have been cases of minor operations on sphincters or tendinous sheaths, of the extraction of teeth, or the operation for squint. He is of