297 HEAD. been pulled off, which may happen if the patient chews or talks much during the first few days. In most of the published cases of total exarti- culation of the lower jaw, this was not done by a single operation, but an interval even of several months intervened between the removal of the first and second halves of the bone. The first opportunity of removing the entire bone at one sitting occurred to Heyfelder, in 1853 ; the second to Maisoneuve, in 1856 ; and the third to Heyfelder, in 1858. Hutton.—Case of Cystic Growth of the Lower Jaw, in which a large portion of the Bone was removed. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., June 1, p. 161. This tumour reached from the angle of the left half of the jaw to an inch beyond the right side of the symphysis, and projected into the fauces. Chloroform was not administered, as Hutton feared suffocation from haemorrhage. He cut through the jaw with a common dovetail saw, a chain saw having been broken in the attempt. Colles.'—Resection of the Right Lower Jaw, and Exarliculation under Chloroform, with Remarks on the Operation. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Aug. 15th, p. 241. This was a case of fibro-cystic disease of the right half of the lower jaw, which was enlarged to the size of a goose's egg. Colles cut through the body of the jaw near the symphysis with a narrow saw, that had a sliding, moveable back; he next divided the ramus with a forceps as high as pos- sible, after which the mass of the tumour was readily removed. He then wrenched out the remaining neck of the bone with a strong forceps, and severed its attachments with a blunt bistoury. The patient recovered, with a salivary fistula. Colles recommends the use of chloroform in operations of this kind, and the recumbent instead of the sitting posture. Annandale, T., Jun.—Case of Chronic Internal Abscess of the Lower Jaw. Ed. Med. Journ., Dec, p. 519. Paget.—Cystic Disease of the Lower Jaw. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 1st, p. 211. The disease in this case implicated the right half of the body and ascending ramus of the jaw. Portions of bony cysts had already, on two previous occasions, been removed by Mr. Paget. 111. tongue. Three Cases of Excision of the Tongue for Cancer are reported. Med. Times and Gaz., May 12, p. 472. Bruxs.—The Surgical Pathology and Treatment of the Organs of Masti- cation and Taste. Vol. i, the External Soft Parts. Tubingen, 18<o. Laupp, Canst., vol. v, p. 205. IV. TONSIL. Byant.—Calculus from the Tonsil, of the Size of a Small Nut, Spon- taneously Ejected. Lancet, Nov. 17, p. 487. The calculus was expelled whilst coughing ; it was hard and ragged and apparently consisted of phosphatic salts. '