252 BBPOBT ON 1'UACTICAL MKimiNi:. various skin diseases, as mollusc, contagion., acne, eczema, scabies, prurigo, psoriasis, and pityriasis versicolor. The schinier-seife is formed by boiling- fish or other animal oils with an excess of ley, composed of caustic potash and the crude carbonate. The best specimens are of a bright amber or green colour.and uniformly soft consistence. IIakdy.—On the Treatment of Prurigo. Rev. de Ther. Med.-Chir., Feb., i860. Edin. Med. J., April, i860. Hardy distinguishes Prurigo into 4 kinds, one depending upon hypeiu'sthesia of the skin, a second on pediculi, a third on irritant principles introduced into the blood, and a fourth symptomatic of other skin affections, as itch. In the first, he advises antispasmodic and antineuralgic remedies, with starch or gelatine baths, sometimes mildly alkaline. In partial (especially vulvar) prurigo, the most useful application is a very hot solution of hydr. bichl. (gr. ij in aq. Oi). Eisenmann.—On Chlorine Lotions in Variola. Bull, de Therap., tome 56, p. 232. Med. T. and Gaz., Feb. nth. Eisenmann believes that chlorine lotions to the skin, employed at the period of eruption, present the following advantages: (1) They favour the development of the eruption and thus mitigate febrile action. (2) The pustules are not too abundant and do not become confluent. (3) There is no subsidence or repercussion of the pustules observed, nor any variolous affection of the mucous membrane, or of an internal organ. (4) The patients suffer little during the height of the ex- anthem, preserve their appetite, and sleep well. (5) The course of the exanthem is very rapid; and there is neither suppuration with its consecutive fever, or tumefaction, salivation, &c. (6) Scabs do not arise, only thin pellicles forming, which soon fall without leaving any mark or cicatrix. (7) No consecutive affections are observed. When resorted to only after the eruption has taken place, the lotions produce the following effects: (1) They diminish or disperse the inflammatory condition, and accelerate the course of the exanthem. (2) They prevent its repercussion and the propagation of the variolous affection to the mucous membranes and internal organs. (3) In cases in which the mucous membranes have already become affected the lotions exert a derivative action; and if, together with them, gargarisms, chlorine inhalations, and chlorined water internally are had recourse to, the intensity of these complications is much diminished, so that recovery takes place in cases in which life seemed to have been in great danger. (4) Employed hi good time, the lotions, even when the eruption has become developed, may yet prevent suppuration. If, however, this has taken place, it may still be moderated; and we find neither irritation of the skin, nor intoxication of the blood from absorption of pus, and consequently no general reaction. (5) Thin scabs only are formed, which fall off soon, only leaving temporary red marks. (6) No consecutive diseases arise. Veiel.— Use of Chloride of Zinc in Skin Diseases. Wien. Ztschr., N. F., iii, 8, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 164. Veiel uses chloride of zinc as a solid, or as a spirituous solution