POISONS AND POISONING. 465 peculiarity, this last with reference to the great differences which exist between different individuals in their liability to be affected by an atmo- sphere impregnated with it. Bolley.—An Antidote against Inspired Chlorine. Oesterlen's Zeitsch., vol. i, p. i. Dr. Bolley proposes to use a weak acid solution of aniline in water, to be applied to the nostrils on a handkerchief. The aniline is at once acted on by the chlorine, and converted into aniline mauve. 15. Other Poisons. Rose.—Poisoning by Alcohol. Med. Gaz., Sept. 8. A child, set. 3, took at 11 a.m., May 28th, a quartern of raw rum and two ounces of gin. He at once fell insensible. When seen imme- diately after, he was comatose, the skin was warm, the pupil contracted to a pin point, the pulse was full and slow, and the face was flushed. Free vomiting was induced by sulphate of zinc and tickling the fauces. An hour after, the patient remained insensible, but could be roused by gentle flagellation ; the pupils were largely dilated. Two hours after, no further progress having been made, a convulsive paroxysm occurred, followed immediately by death. On post-mortem examination eighteen hours after, the mucous membrane of the stomach was found to be injected at the cardiac extremity, but no other morbid appearance presented itself. Casper.—A new Poison. Casper, vol. xvi, part 1. Canst., vol. vii, p. 16. In this paper, nitrobenzid or nitrobenzin is treated of, as a poison easy to be obtained, on account of its cheapness as well as its use in the manufacture of perfumery. This liquid—first obtained by Mitscherlich, by the introduction of a small portion of benzin into warm fuming nitric acid, and washing the product with water—crystallizes in needles at ;7 4° Fahr., has a sp. gr. of 1209 at 590, boils at 4150. The density of its vapour is 4-4; its constitution is Cl2H5N04, according to which formula, and the mode in which it is obtained, it is regarded as a body derived from benzin, by the substitution for one of its atoms of hydrogen, of an atom of N04. It is only slightly soluble in water, but dissolves easily in alcohol, ether, and oils, the alcoholic solution being decomposed by zinc and hydrochloric acid, with the formation of water and aniline. In respect of its poisonous action, it is to be noted that it possesses a characteristic and powerful odour, indistinguishable from that of bitter almonds, so that this smell can no longer be exclusively relied on as an indication of the presence of prussic acid. PlNCUS.—Method of Detecting the -presence of small quantities of Essen- tial Oil of Mustard. Journ. f. prakt. Chem., vol. Ixviii, p. 113. In a medico-legal investigation, the author availed himself of the reac- tion of the nitroprusside of sodium on sulphides as a means of detect- ing essence of mustard, by heating which with potash, sulphuret of potassium is obtained among other products. 30