REPOKT Of LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. 426 sive superficinl effusion of blood, consequent on blows inflicted on tliree individuals with tbc snme weapon—an iron bnr. Obs. xiv. Similar injury and mode of death ; superficial and iutra-ventriculnr sanguineous effusion. Obs. xvi. Similar injury ; primary laceration of brain and very exten- sive haemorrhage external to dura mater ; consecutive cephalitis and arach- nitis; extent of lesions immediately consequent on injury sucb ns to imply immediate death ; this inference contradicted by existence of se- condary lesions; actual duration of case, four days. Obs. xvn. Blow from a flint; fracture of frontal bone, effusion of blood and " puril'orm albumen" external to dura mater. Tbe patient, a female, aet. 24, was able to follow her occupation until twelve days after the injury, when symptoms of compression appeared suddenly, followed by death in five hours ; inference, that the injury was not essentially mortal. Obs. xvni. Blow from a sharp stone; abscess of anterior lobe of left hemisphere; arachnitis of right side. Obs. xix. Ecchymosis of the eyelids, fracture of the bones of tbe nose; immediate loss of consciousness; recovery. Obs. xx. Contu- sions of face and head, no fracture; slight effusion of blood on the surface of brain and in tbe left internal temporal fossa ; inference, sudden cerebral congestion occasioned by a fall down a stone staircase, followed immediately by concussion and sligbt haemorrhage. Obs. xxi. Fall and blows on the right side of head ; extensive superficial sanguineous effusion ; absence of lesion of integuments or fracture; pre-existing softening of right optic thalamus : inference, that lesions were dependent secondarily on previous disease. Obs. xxn. During life, fracture of inferior maxillary bone; haemorrhage from the nose and ears: inference, fracture of base. Obs. xxili. Fracture of base and of right parietal, frontal, and temporal bones ; double effusion of blood; 1, superficial, subjacent to fracture; 2, in the left internal temporal fossa: inference, that the injury was consequent on a fall. Obs. xxiv (during life). Case of fracture of the base, consequent on a fall during a quarrel. Obs. XXV. Extensive sanguineous effusion both internal and external to dura mater; depressed fracture of frontal, of right and left parietal and temporal bones ; absence of external wound ; inference, that the injury was occasioned instantaneously by a very violent blow with an instrument of great breadth. The third section is devoted to "diseases of the brain and its membranes which have given rise, in consequence of ill-founded charges, to judicial autopsies without result," viz., "cerebral congestion, meningitis, acute hydrocephalics, apoplexy, and eclampsia." Obs. xxvi. Cerebral conges- tion aud pulmonary apoplexy; absence of indications of violence ; sudden death during the act of digestion. Obs. XXVII. Suspicion of poisoning; arachnitis; absence of all indications of toxical action; analysis with negative result. Obs. XXVIII. Suspicion of violence; arachnitis with central softening. Obs. xxix. Suspicion of violence; serous effusion not only in the ventricles, but also at the surface of the brain ; abscess of the spleen, purulent absorption. Obs. xxx. Suspicion of violence; enormous effusion of blood in the ventricular cavity. Obs. xxxi. Serous effusion in the cavity of the arachnoid, and in the ventricles of the brain; violent blows on other parts of the body, inflicted twelve days previously. Obs. xxxii. A child, aet. 12 ; convulsions occasioned by bundles of lumbrici in the small intestine ; cerebral congestion: improper adminis- tration of brandy and pepper.