REPORT OX THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 111. largest) nnd were a great source of annoyance to him, as, when he went to hathe, the other children used to get about him, and keep pulling at " these things;" the pigmentary deposits were also much larger when he was younger than they arc now. There is no unusual enlargement of the mammary organ. VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY. E. J. Lowe.—On the Temperature of the Flowers and Leaves of Plants. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 40, p. 534. Lowe found that great differences occur from time to time in the tem- perature of plants, and much depends on the meteorology of the day, the differences being usually greater with a cloudless sky than with one loaded with cloud. The time of the day seems also to operate on some plants to a great degree; as an instance, the Erica herbacea, which between one nnd two p.m. had shown a warmth of <J° above that of the grass, by three o'clock was only i° warmer, and by four o'clock was colder than the grass. In the majority of cases, grass is colder than flowers. P. Duciiartre.—Is Water directly absorbed by the External Organs of Plants? Experimental Researches. Compt. Rend., 13th February, i860, p. 359. Contrary to the usually received opinions, Duchartre tells us that neither the stem3 nor the leaves of plants, young or old, absorb any of the rain that falls upon them. Lawes, Gilbert, and Pugh.—On the Sources of the Nitrogen of Vege- tation ; with special reference to the question whether Plants as- similate free or uncombined Nitrogen. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 40, P- 544- . . ' From a very extended series of experiments the authors have arrived at the following conclusions: 1. The yield of nitrogen in vegetation on a given area, within a given time, especially in the case of leguminous crops, is not satisfactorily ex- plained by reference to the hitherto quantitatively determined supplies of combined nitrogen. 2. In experiments with graminaceous plants, there is no evidence of an assimilation of free nitrogen ; and in those with leguminous plauts, the results, as far as they go, in like manner fail to indicate any such powers of assimilation. Dr. C. A. Cameron.—On the Sources of the Nitrogen of Plants. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., 1st September, p. 266. Cameron satisfied himself by experiment, that neither the free nitrogen of the atmosphere nor the combined nitrogen of humus can be assimilated by plants, and that the nutriment of plants can only be supplied by substances of a purely inorganic nature, under which designation he, however, includes ammonia and urea. Urea and the cyanurates of potash and soda are among the substances from which plants receive their ni- trogen. To these he adds nitrate of potash and ferrocyanide of po- tassium.