BLOOD-VESSELS. 273 blood-vessels, (a) arteries, i . Wounds. Skey.—Puncture of the Ascending Aorta by a Needle ; Death; Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., January 14, p, 34. A healthy young woman received a pusli on the chest in a scuffle. She walked into the surgery at St. Bartholomew's Hospital about fifteen minutes afterwards, complaining of fulness in the tliroat and pain in the right shoulder. Her pulse was 120. On the right side of the sternum, between the cartilages of the second and third ribs, the skin was pro- jected about J/' by a foreign body, which proved, on extraction, to be part of a needle, i|" long. She sank, and died about one hour after her admission. Two small punctures were found in the pericardium, which was distended with blood, and there were several punctures through the coats of the aorta, about one half above its valves. Lloyd.—Wound of the Carotid in a Child; Obliteration of the Trunk; Death from Abscess in the Brain. Med. Times and Gaz., Sep- tember 8, p. 239. A little boy, set. 4, April 14th, fell on the point of a stick which he had in his hand. He was taken into St. Bartholomew's Hospital in a state of syncope, from profuse bleeding from a wound, of the size of a large pea, in the right side of the neck, situated one inch below and in front of the angle of the jaws. April 16th, — Haemorrhage to the extent of an ounce, of a dark, venous colour, and in a continuous stream, easily stopped by a compress. 21st,—Restless. Wound discharging healthy pus. 22d,— Haemorrhage of the same character and of same extent as on 16th. 29th,— Haemorrhage at mid-day. In the night a fit, and hemiplegia. May 9th,— Death. The wound had passed between the external carotid artery and internal jugular vein, and ended in a lymphatic gland lying upon the muscl. rect. capitis ant. maj. The internal carotid, implicated in the back of the wound, was quite impervious. The right cerebral hemisphere was softened, and contained three abscesses. Le Gros Clark. — Deligation of the Common Carotid Artery for Wound of the External Carotid; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., February 25, p. 190. Stanley.—Ligature of the Carotid for Hcemorrhage from the Tonsil; Recovery. Subsequent softening of the Brain; Death; Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., January 28, p. 88. Stewart, Dr.—si Case of Phlebitis of the Femoral Vein, and Rupture of the Internal and Middle Coats of the Femoral Artery, resulting from a Blow ivith a Stick on the Groin whilst the Ley was extended. Lancet, July 21, p. 62. Hilton.—Case of Severe Gunshot Injury to the Femoral Vessels. Med. Times and Gaz., March 3, p. 216. The upper part of the thigh was struck by a charge of small shot, which divided the superficial femoral artery. The patient died of tetanus. 18