REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 18 example of the complete reproduction of bone:—In the month of April, 1858, the Author was called upon to reduce a fracture of the leg in a man aged about thirty-two years. The man, endowed with an excellent con- stitution, had the limb fractured nearly twenty-four hours before he was seen by Mr. Mottet, who, on his arrival, found a compound comminuted fracture of the tibia. The muscles were torn across, and the ends of the bone, denuded of their periosteum, projected through the wound. There was great contusion and swelling of the limb, but with care the fracture was reduced. The soft parts, to some extent, in a short time sloughed away, and left the ends and fragments of the hone exposed. Several portions of bone afterwards came away, but, in spite of these untoward results, the fractured extremities gradually united, and by the end of fifteen months, not only had the wound in the soft parts healed, but even the place of the detached fragments of bone, some of which in- cluded the whole thickness of the shaft, had become supplied by a true osseous deposit, which, day by day, increased in solidity. From this observation, Mottet concludes that, if a proper amount of patience be exercised, many limbs may be preserved of the normal length, by a perfect reproduction of bone taking place as in the above case. E. Magttot.—Memoir on the Development, and Structure of the Dental Follicles in Man and other Mammalia. Compt. Rend., 37th Feb., i860, p. 424. Magttot describes the follicles as originating, during intra-uterine life, in the submucous tissue of the gum. The structure of this tissue is not different from that of submucous tissues in general. In the human foetus, the order in which the follicles of the temporary teeth appear is the following: 1. The follicle of the middle incisor of the lower jaw appears towards the sixtieth day after conception. 2. The follicle of the middle incisor of the upper jaw appears about the sixty-fifth day after conception. And, in intervals of a few days— 3. The lateral inferior incisor. 7. The inferior canine. 4. The lateral superior incisor. 8. The superior canine. 5. The first inferior molar. 9. The second inferior molar. 6. The first superior molar. 10. The second superior molar. In general, the follicles have all made their appearance by the eightieth day after conception. From the above, it seem3 that the follicles appear in the upper jaw somewhat later than in the lower—an opinion that has not hitherto been generally accepted. See also papers on the same subject by Robin and Magitot,' published in the 'Journ. de la Phys.,' Nos. for January and April, i860. Mr. Canton.—Arrest of Development in the Inferior Maxillary Bone. Lancet, Dec. 29th, p. 635. At a meeting of the Fatiiological Society, Mr. Canton related the clinical history of a girl (act. 16), in whom the development of the inferior maxillary bone had ceased at the inferior dental foramen ; the npper half of the perpendicular ramus was consequently wanting. Associated with this deformity was an absence of the bony portion of