ItEPOItT ON THE INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINE. 110 Authority. Owen Wood Farre Curling .... ii • • • ♦ Gairdner .... Millar Luschka .... llainey and Bristowe llenle Zenker .... Turner .... Sex. M. F. M. M. M.' M. M. M. F. F. M. M. F. M. F. M. F. F. F. Age. 5° Aged. 22 Middle age 58 60 60 49 80 S6 60 20 60 79 66 49 60 37 DiBease. Tubercles and Bright's disease. Sloughing ulcer, and diarrhoea. Not stated. Acute rheumatism. Tubercles. Fractured bkull. Fractured ribs. Purulent infection of blood. Tumour of tongue, probably cancerous. Old syphilitic disease. Pulmonary and cardiac disease. Not stated. Pyrexia, tympanitis, abdominal and muscular pains. Paralysis following apoplexy. Old age and debility. Cancer of pylorus. Unknown. Asthma and general debility. Meningitis. In Zenker's case, the emigration of the worms from the intestine to the muscles, and their presence in the latter, produced well-marked symptoms. In Curling's two cases, on the other hand, the encysted worms did not apparently in any way impede the active exercise of the muscles, or impair the bodily health of the individual. With regard to the comparative frequency of the trichina in man, Turner thinks that it occurs much oftener than is supposed, for between one and two per cent, of the dead bodies received into the dissecting rooms of the University of Edinburgh during the last five years have been so affected. Prof. Welcker (Halle).—On Sarcina, especially on its Occurrence in Human Urine. Henle and Pfeuf.'s Zeitschr., vol. v, p. 199. Several cases have been reported in which sarcina has been found in the urine. The one related by Welcker is specially interesting, in conse- quence of the patient being a member of the medical profession, and his symptoms having been carefully watched. The gentleman, set. 47, had been ailing for some time, lost strength, and become emaciated. He suffered much from nervous depression, in consequence of his imagining that he laboured under renal disease. Welcker first examined the urine in July, 1857 ; it was strongly acid, and on standing became clouded. On microscopical examination the cloudi- ness was found to be partly due to the presence of sarcina. On examining the urine even immediately after it was passed, sarcina, crystals of oxalate of lime, a few pus- or mucus-corpuscles, and epithelium-cells, were detected in it. The majority of the sarcina-masses were composed of eight, or of sixty-four cells. Welcker states that he has on several occasions examined sarcina from the stomach, and it appears to him that the masses from that organ are larger than those from the urinary bladder. In tlic following table he gives the average size of those from the stomach and those from the urine :