ltEl'ORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. s gorged with chyle ; nntl when opened, their bodies offer no trace of patho- logical alterations. The latent cause of tliis is that nutrition is nothing more than a peculiar mode of evolution, and when it ceases life is inevi- tably brought to a close. Lecture X is on the rational principles of therapeutics. When speak- ing of the"power nature enjoys of restoring health to the body without foreign assistance, Bernard says that, just as we see foreign bodies, when they have been accidentally lodged in the tissues, expelled by the natural process in inflammation and suppuration, it appears rational to suppose that, in internal diseases, the noxious principle is expelled with the per- spiration or some other similar excretion. When viewed in this light, the symptoms of disease invariably exhibit a curative tendency, more or less connected with the final end. Every change that occurs in the patient's state marks a new step in the contest; and when death super- venes, it must be supposed that the powers of nature have been overcome by the intensity of the morbid influence. Gaspard injected a decoction of putrid matter into the veins of animals, and succeeded in inducing intense febrile symptoms, with shivering, prostration, and abundant alvine dejections; and after a certain space of time, the animals recovered without undergoing any medical treatment. In other cases, the animals having perished, it was supposed, of course, that the vis medicatrix had been insufficient to conquer the foe. The views of the opposite party are, that nature is frequently blind, and requires to be directed in her opera- tions. In fractures, although she supplies the materials requisite for consolidating the broken shaft, if the limb be abandoned to her, the bones unite in an improper direction, and the patient is lamed for life. Inflam- mation of the natural ducts generally brings on stricture (urethra, oesophagus). It is therefore clear that nature may be praised or blamed for what she does, according to the light in which her operations are viewed. In some cases nature may be left to herself, but in others medi- cal interference is desirable. Dr. Samuel Wiuks (Guy's).—Some Observations with respect to a Philo- sophical Arrangement of Tumours and New Growths. Lond. Med. Rev., July, p. 4; Sept., p. 111 ; Dec, p. 260. 1st. What is meant by a new growth ? Wilts says, we make use of the term growth to express that constant reproduction of the tissues which we suppose is always in progress throughout the body; that as the various structures are in a state of perpetual decay, so are they as con- stantly being renewed, either from a plasma supplied by their blood- vessels, or by some more subtle method of growth from their own elements. This process is physiological; if, however, the plasma or exudation is in excess, & pathological process is in operation, and a tumour is the result. The difference in the two cases is this—in the former every structure produces its like; in the latter, the affinity is in a great measure lost be- tween the exudative material and the tissue from which it springs (e. g. brain, luug, liver, &c), and consequently development is impossible, except into structures of a simpler kind. If, however, the structure from which the exudation comes be itself of a simple kind, a developmental process may occur in it, and thus, for example, a tumour growing from bone may become osseous, from the medullary substance myeloid, from the uterus muscular, from the skin epithelial, and so on.