47 NERVOUS SYSTEM. or pons is affected. The central portion of the pons seems especially to conduct sensations, and the anterior the mandates of the will. Brown-S£quart>.—On the Velocity of the Nervous Current. Journ. du Progres, 1859, p. 323. The author assumes that conduction takes place more slowly in the spinal cord than in the nerves, because electric irritation applied to the extremity of the foot is proportionally longer in being perceived by the person experimented upon than when applied to the skin of the arms or neck. H. Friedberg.—On the Innervation of the Nose formed by Transplanta- tion. Virchow's Arch., vol. xvi, p. 1. Canst., vol. i, p. in. 1. In the three cases examined, impressions made upon the new organ were referred to the forehead. 2. The lower part of the nose was insensible, or nearly so, in all cases. 3. In a week or two impressions were referred to the right spot. 4. The frontal cicatrix was the last part that became sensible. 5. The author does not regard the reference of sensation to the forehead as the mere result of custom. 6. When the raw surfaces unite com- pletely, nerves may grow from the neighbouring parts into the new nose. 7. At the bridge the old and new nerves will meet together, and hence impressions made in that locality will sometimes be referred to the fore- head, and at other times to the nose. Dumexil.—Atrophy of the Hypoglossal, Facial, and Spinal Nerves. Gaz. Hebd., 1859, 25> P- 39°* In a man of fifty-three, suffering from incomplete motor paralysis of the left arm, there co-existed complete paralysis of the tongue, attended with inability to swallow solid food, and imperfect paralysis of the muscles of the face. The patient having been accidentally killed, both hypoglossi were examined, and found to be highly atrophied and gray in colour. The terminal branches in the muscles of the tongue contrasted strikingly with the ramifications of the trifacial and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. There was a somewhat similar condition of the peripheric branches of the facial nerve and the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, especially on the left side. The muscles supplied by the latter were very pale, and far advanced in fatty degeneration. This was not the case with the muscles of the tongue and face. J. Rosenthal.—On the Influence of High Degrees of Temperature on Motor Nerves. Reprint. Canst., vol. i, p. 97. This inquirer finds that the motor nerves of the frog become insensible at about 1580 Fah. (700 C.) At 1400 Fah. (6o° C.) excitability continues four or five seconds, at 1220 Fah. (500 C.) sixteen seconds, and at 1040 Fah. (400 C.) more than ten minutes. A nerve heated to 1040— 1130 Fah. (400—450 C.) produces tetanus of twenty seconds' duration. This does not occur between 113° and 1580 Fah. (450—70°C). A nerve paralyzed by a heat of 1130—1220 Fah. may regain its powers at a lower temperature, and this process may be repeated more than fifteen times. E. Earless.—Muscular Spasms occurring during the Desiccation of Nerves. Ilenle's u. Pfeufer's Zeitschr., vol. vii, 1859, p. 219. Canst., vol. i, p. 94. The author s observations extended to the effects of air (calm and in