58 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. the blood that the secondary phenomena of insensibility are produced. These substances, therefore, the authors say, are only pseudo-ansesthetics. Demeaux.— Unfortunate Influence exercised on the Child Ly Conception occurring during the Intoxication of the Father. Gaz. Med. de Paris, Oct., i860, p. 657. The author observes that, among thirty-six epileptics that he lias had occasion to examine during the course of twelve years, and whose history is well known to him, five were conceived while the father was intoxicated. He has further observed two children affected with congenital paraplegia in the same family, when, from the distinct statement of the mother, con- ception took place during drunkenness. Lastly, in the case of a young male lunatic, aged seventeen, and an idiot, aged five years, the author states that he has been able to discover the same cause. Beknard.—On the General Effects of Medicinal Substances. Lect. XIV. Medical Times and Gazette, May 26th, p. 515. Bernard thinks that medicines, as well as poisons, exert their power exclusively upon certain histological elements, even in those cases where they appear to prodnce a general perturbation of the whole system. Thus, for instance, he says that strychnia localizes its action entirely upon the sensitive nerves ; and that wherever the torrent of the circulation conveys it, all the properties of the recurrent nervous fibres are destroyed ; so that even before reaching the spinal cord it has already paralysed the extre- mities of the nerves which revert towards their central axis. On the other hand, woorara concentrates upon the motor nerves alone its noxious influ- ence, and, wherever it meets them, paralyses at once their properties; and in this manner, without doing the slightest injury to glands, muscles, vessels, or other tissues, it arrests at one blow the most indispensable functions of life. But the action of poisons introduced into the blood is not invariably directed towards the nervous system. All the other tissues, and even the blood itself, have their own peculiar poisons, capable of modifying their vital properties. Both digitalis and the juice of the upas antiar enjoy the power of destroying muscular contractility throughout the entire system. Bernard then adds that there is, however, a difference in the in- tensity with which these poisons act on the various orders of mus- cles, a difference with which the stimulating properties of electricity, which act so powerfully upon certain systems of muscles, and are comparatively so feeble as regards others, has already rendered us familiar. But the uervous system, after the introduction of these poisons into the economy, remains wholly unimpaired; and through the suspended action of the heart alone is it in their power to produce death. A substance of a very different kind, the oxide of carbon, neither attacks the muscles nor the nerves. It acts exclusively on the blood- globules, which ought to be viewed in the light of a living tissue, as well as other histological elements. Introduced into the lungs, the oxide of carbon fixes upon the globules which circulate in the pulmonary vessels; and such is its affinity for the blood-cells, that a perfectly stable chemical compound appears to be produced, which the presence of oxygen is no longer able to destroy. In this manner the function which devolves upon the blood-corpuscles is at once destroyed.