RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 211 W. T. Gairdner.—Five Tears' Hospital Experience of Pneumonia. Edin. Med. J., March, i860. Gairdner gives details of 11 fatal cases of pneumonia, of which 1 only was uncomplicated, and even this occurred in a man of excessively- intemperate habits, and the disease had advanced to destructive sup- puration before treatment was commenced. These fatal cases corre- spond to from 60 to 100 cases of pneumonia, or disease verging upon it, which Gairdner has had under his care in 5 years. He has employed no special treatment, but carefully adapted his remedies to the require- ments of each case. He states his opinion that, during the last 12 or 13 years, " a very great diminution has taken place in the intensity as well as the frequency of inflammations g-enerally, and believes that sanitary reform has great power in preventing the acute inflammations, as well as the epidemic fevers." Quatn, R.—On the Use of the Hypophosphites of Soda and Lime in the Treatment of Phthisis. Lancet, March 17. Quain has given a full trial to the hypophosphites of lime and soda recommended by Churchill, but finds them quite inefficacious. Of 22 individuals labouring under phthisis in various stages, 16 derived no benefit whatever from the hypophosphite treatment; in 3 the benefit was very slight and temporary ; in 2 the improvement, though marked, was temporary; and in 1 it has been satisfactory and permanent. Quain thinks that any improvement effected was owing to the rest, good food and nursing of the hospital, and to this only. Of 22 cases treated in the ordinary way, 16 were, more or less, permanently or materially benefited. Bloodgood.—Observations on Bronchial Respiration. Arner. J. of Med. Sc., Jan. i860. Bloodgood dissents from the opinions usually held as to the produc- tion of bronchial respiration ; because he thinks that, if the sound were merely that generated by the passage of the air to and fro in the bronchi conducted to the ear by the solid lung, it could not be obscured by the normal vesicular respiration of health. His own view is as follows:—" When a portion of lung becomes hepatized, the bronchus that supplied it no longer transmits air to the vesicles below, and can therefore no longer produce the sound of transmission, great or small; but as the tube itself remains open by reason of the elasticity of its walls, the air coming from above having 710 room to enter except by expelling an equal quantity from it, plays around its month in passing doivnivards, and causes the air within to vibrate like the instrument known as the Pandean pipe, and thus produces the tubular sound which will be ln>h or low loud or weak, according to the calibre and depth of the pervious portion of the tube, and the force of the respiratory act, which latter will be greater when the upper and middle lobes are affected than when the disease is confined to the lower portions, on account of the greater velocity of the air in those parts. When the tube itself becomes filled with solid or liquid matter, or closed by external pressure, this sound will cease."