OBSTETRICAL 0PERATION3. 357 dream, to suppose that craniotomy in every form can be for ever deleted from the list of obstetrical operations, at the same time admitting that Tyler Smith, in contending for the abolition of craniotomy, has done a great service to humanity, in pointing out its dangers, and in reminding us by what other means we may effect a safe delivery instead. The con- ditions justifying operative diminution of the head are:—i. When the child is dead. 3. When the long forceps have been tried, and have failed. 3. When turning is impossible. 4. When there has been no opportunity of inducing premature labour. The operations of craniotomy, cephalotripsy, and cranioclasm, are then described and com- pared. In the latter operation two instruments are necessary—a perfo- rator, to open the head, and the cranioclast, a thick forceps with handles like the bone forceps, and blades thick, firm, blunt, and strong, and by means of which the base of the foetal skull is broken up, and its passage through the contracted pelvis facilitated. One blade is introduced within, the other without, the skull; the two are then locked, aud the bone is then easily broken across. The instrument may be reapplied once or more, until the necessary degree of mobility of the base of the skull is produced. Hcnxig.—On Perforation and Cephalotripsy. Moil. f. Geb., Jan., 1859. Schmidt, vol. cv, p. 196. Spondli (Zurich).—On Perforation and Cephalotripsy. Mon. f. Geb., May, i860, p. 321. Didot.—Critical Examination of the Clinical Results of the " Forceps- Scie." Gaz. Hebd., March 16th, 23d, and April 27th, 1S60. Didot states that the embryotomy instrument of Van Huevel, of Brussels, named the "forceps-scie," has been employed in fifty-one cases, the mother recovering in forty. The principle on which the instrument is constructed is, Didot states, admirable; he himself has introduced some modifications, and, as he believes, much improved the instrument. The limit of pelvic contraction within which, as Van Huevel stated, embry- otomy was possible by the aid of his instrument, is six centimetres. Didot's instrument can he used when the space is less than this. Many of the objections existing in Van Iluevel's forceps-scie are removed, and the price of the instrument is considerably lowered. T. Gaillahd Thomas.—New Instrument for Performing Craniotomy. Amer. Med. Times, Dec. 22d, i860. The instrument is a steel tube, ten inches, with the handle, thirteen inches, long, ending in a screw, and hiding within it a cutting blade, which is thrown out by the hand of the operator. The inventor states that it possesses many advantages over the perforating scissors generally in use. Tommasi.—On Craniotomy, §-c. Lo Sper. Firenz., iv, 97. Canst., vol. iv, P- 47<>- Prof. Scanzoxi.—On Decapitation and Decapitation Instruments. Wiirz. Med. Ztschr., i, p. 105. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 47. In order to facilitate the performance of decapitation, which Scanzoni prefers to embryulcia, he recommends a nev^form of instrument.