RRPOBT ON I'liACTIOAL MEDICINK. 172 symptoms in lead colic arc referable to cramp of the external abdominal muscles, and not to any affection of the intestines. lie explains the constipation of the disease by the contraction of the sphincter ani, and the inability of the diaphragm to descend and induce, pressure on the rectum in consequence of the firm contraction of the abdominal parietes. Fronmui.ler.—Indian Hemp, its Sojiorific Properly. Prag. Viertel- jahrschr. Lxv, p. 102, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 160. Fronmuller, as the result of prolonged experience, recommends Indian hemp as the best narcotic we possess for procuring natural sleep. The lowest dose is 8 grains. (?) It has no prejudicial after- effects. Collongues.—Of Dynamoscopy in Cerebral Hcemorrhage. Gaz. des H6pit.j Nos. 34, 37, 40, 117. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 10. Collongues affirms that in the healthy condition certain murmurs, humroings, and cracklings are heard on the surface of the body, and especially in the tips of the fingers, which undergo variations in different diseases. In apoplectic cases the murmurs in the ringers diminish, intermit, and vanish in accordance with the violence of the attack, Avhile on the cranium they become stronger, and are variously altered on the rest of the' surface of the body. Collongues believes that observation of these murmurs will assist in diagnosis and prog- nosis. Teissier.—On the slow Form of Cerebral Ramollissement, and its Treat- ment by Tonic Measures. Gaz. Med. de Lyons, Jan. 16th. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 13. Teissier g'ives a very full and valuable account of this disease, in- cluding the symptoms, morbid anatomy, causes, pathology, diagnosis, and treatment. The causes he enumerates are vexation on account of disappointed ambition, or losses at play, political agitation, abuse of the enjoyments of life, venereal excesses, inveterate syphilis, specific cures too long carried on, fatiguing intellectual tasks, abuse of certain alcoholic beverages, especially of absynth-brandy, and excessive tobacco-smoking. Wounded vanity seems to be one of the most potent injurious influences. Under the head of pathology, Teissier rejects entirely sthenic inflammation as the essence of the disease, winch he believes to consist in weakened vitality of the brain tissue, and consequent defective nutrition and decay. A specific dyscrasia as syphilis may conditionate the malnutrition. Hyperaemia and extrava- sation may occur as a complication, or secondary change. The treat- ment must be mainly tonic; occasional attacks of congestion may, however, be met by some leeches to the anus and purgatives. Oppolzer.—The Diseases of the Spinal Cord and of its Envelopes. Spital. Ztg. No. 21. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 17. Oppolzer states that tabes dors.' is caused by a growth of gelatinoid connective tissue which compresses and atrophies the ncrve-cclls and fibres.