PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF TOOD, ETC. 67 from the fish ; whereas the same experiment made with a torpedo not poisoned with woorara always induces muscular movements, as well as electrical discharges. The same remark may be made regarding the appli- cation of galvanism, under similar conditions, to the pneumogastric nerves. These experiments prove that woorara first acts on the motor nerves, and that the electric nerves, like the sensory and nerve-centres, retain their physiological properties for a much longer period. A. v. Bezold.—On the Action of Woorara on the Motor Nerves. Monatsber. d. Berl. Akad., 14th Nov., 1859. Canst., vol. 1, p. 111. Experiments with the myographion show that woorara diminishes the velocity with which a stimulus is transmitted through the sciatic nerve, at 590 Fah. (150 C), from twenty-six to five metres and a half in a second. The change occurs much sooner in the intra-muscular nerves than in the trunks, and in the latter only with increased doses of the poison. Martix-Magron and Buisson.—The Comparative Action of the Extracts of Nitx Vomica and Woorara on the Animal Economy. Journ. de la Phys., April, p. 323, and July, p. 522, i860. These authors have arrived at the conclusion that strychnine acts upon the sensitive nerves in precisely the same way as woorara, and conse- quently imagine that the one cannot counteract the effects of the other. L. Vella.—The Antagonism which exists between Strychnine and Woorara, or the Neutralizing the Tetanic Effects of Strychnine by Woorara, Compt. Kend., Sept., i860, p. 353. In this communication Vella relates several experiments, the results of which prove that woorara, as was stated by an English observer in 1856, has the power of neutralizing the effects of a poisonous dose of strych- nine. Vella concludes by saying that woorara is the true physiological antidote for strychnine. Wundt and SchelsiCe.—The Influence of Woorara Poison on Nerves and Muscles.—Verb. d. naturh.-med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, p. 12, i860. (1) The state of the motory and sensory nerves, when under the influence of this poison, is not'identical with that of death ; the sensi- bility to stimuli always, after a longer or shorter period, returns. (2) In. poisoning with woorara there is, the authors say, a period of increased sensibility, at least in so far as reflex action is concerned. (3) The pulsations of the heart, for a time, increase in number after the animal has become unconscious from the action of woorara. (4) The influence of the vagus is not destroyed (as has been supposed) by woorara, but, on the contrary, increased; hence the quickening of the heart's action. 'The authors, moreover, consider that the idea of the extremities of the nerves being dead in poisoning by woorara is false, and, therefore, that the opinions that have been formed regarding muscular irritability, from the results of experiments made upon animals poisoned with woorara, are of no importance. Prof. Wm. A. Hammond.—Experimental Researches relative to a supposed Mew Species of Upas. Amer. Journ., Oct., i860, p. 363 This specimen of upas poison was obtained at Singapore in 1848 by