PREGNANCY. 348 cavity of the uterus. There was no suspicion of pregnancy, as the cata- meuia were present. H. Grace.—Case of Fallopian Pregnancy. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 48. Kbatjs.—Case of Tubal Pregnancy. Allg. Wien. Med. Zt., 28, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 197. Timothy Holmes.—Account of a Fresh Dissection of a Preparation of Tubal Gestation, described by the late Dr. John Clarke (with plate). Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliii, p. 373. Mr. Holmes finds that, in addition to the amnion and chorion already described, there is a third membrane surrounding the ovum in the tube. This third membrane is separable into two layers, and does not form part of the wall of the tube. Prof. Virchow.—Pregnancy in a Rudimentary Cornu. Mon. f. Geb., March and April, i860, p. 176. The woman, set. 27, died suddenly, with symptoms of rupture. Willigk.—On Ovarian Pregnancy. Prag. Viertel. 63, p. 79. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 198. The author discusses the contested question as to the possibility of ovarian pregnancy. Many cases have been described erroneously as cases of ovarian pregnancy, their microscopic examination having been omitted. Thus, three cases described as such in the Museum at Olmiitz were found by him to belong to this category. What were supposed to be chorion villi were shown, by microscopic examination, to be nothing of the kind. Some of the most interesting cases on record are then passed in review, the general conclusion drawn from their critical examination being, that they are not perfectly reliable as cases of ovarian pregnancy. Lastly, the author describes a preparation in the Olmiitz Museum in which the diagnosis of ovarian pregnancy appears to be supported by all necessary exactness. A fcetal cyst, seven centimetres long, is situated in the left broad ligament, containing a fcetus of about three months. There was a rent in its anterior part. The ovary on this side, five centimetres long, was intimately adherent to the sac, and the stroma of the ovary was clearly traceable from the one to the other. Rob. Hardey.—Case of Abnormal Gestation. Obst.Trans., vol. ii, p. 79. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PELVIS. Simon Thomas (Leyden).—The Origin of the Obliquely Distorted Pelvis in Anchylosis of one Sacro-iliac Synchondrosis. Neder. Tijdsch., 1859, p. 277. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 60. The author examines the validity of Naegele's opinion that the obliquely distorted pelvis originates in a " vitium primse conformationis." Having examined the recorded cases, he finds that in by far the greater number there were evident traces of former disease of the bones; or, at all events, it was known that an affection of the pelvic bones had been present. The imperfect development of the affected half of the sacrum, Thomas