84 UKl'OUT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Dr. IIakley.—Contribution to our Knowledge of Digestion. Brit, and For. Quart., No. 49, Jan., i860, p. 206. The author found that, on an average, a healthy man secretes from one to two pounds of saliva in twenty-four hours, of a specific gravity of from 1.0039 t° 1-0050, and of the following composition : Water ..... 99.331 Solids ..... 0.669 : Ferment Albumen Casein Mucus J Chloride of Sodium Sulphate of Potash Sulphocyanide of Potassium Phosphate of Lime ,, of Magnesia and Iron J Organic .... 0.391 Inorganic . . 0.278 The salivary glands excrete some foreign substances from the blood as rapidly as the kidneys. Iodide of potassium, for example, was detected in the saliva and urine ten minutes after five grains in a state of solution had been swallowed. The following is the result of an analysis of pure gastric juice obtained from a dog through a fistula in the stomach. Water ...... 97.288 Solids . . . . 2.712 : Organic matter, chiefly Pepsin . . . 2.247 Chloride of Sodium „ Potassium Phosphate of Lime y Inorganic . . 0.465 „ Magnesia and I Iron J 100.000 The author believes the quantity daily secreted by a healthy individual is equal to one fifteenth of his weight. To the question—why is the I stomach not digested? the author replies, because the mucus covering the walls of the stomach prevents the gastric juice getting at them. The pancreatic secretion has not only the power of transforming starch into sugar, aud emulsifying fats, but also of digesting protein substances, as first stated by Pappenheim and Purkinje. This latter fact was mores especially corroborated by putting hard-boiled white of egg into the! empty duodenum of a cat, placing a ligature above and below, and after] twenty hours sacrificing the animal. On examination, the portion of intestine included between the ligatures was found distended with fluid of] a slightly acid reaction, having much the appearance of chyme without 1 the intermixture of bile. No fragments of egg remained. Dr. Corvisaht (Paris).—Remarks on a Critique of Dr. Brinton's on my Memoir on a little-known Function of the Pancreas. Dub. Quart., vol. xxix, p. 66. The author states that, in preparing an infusion of the pancreas fori the purposes of study, it is necessary to avoid crushing the gland, agi-