tomy; Fatal Result in each Case. Lancet, April 21, p. 392. 2ys REPORT ON SURGERY. V. FAUCES. Turner, Wm,—Case of Extensive Adhesion of the Inferior Margin of the Soft Palate to the Posterior Wull of the Fauces, with a Description of the Parts seen on Dissection. Ediub. Med. Jour., January, p. 612. VI. OESOPHAGUS. Marshall.—Case of Cancerous Stricture of the (Esophagus ; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 496, May 19. air-passages. i. Laryngoscopy. Czermak.—"The Laryngoscope." Med. Times and Gaz., May 5, P- 453. A letter from the 'Med. Times' correspondent, describing Czermak's laryngoscope, and the mode of using it. It is a small, quadrilateral, metallic speculum, soldered to a thin, flexible stem, which admits of its being bent at any convenient angle. Having been warmed, in order to prevent the condensation of vapour upon its reflecting surface, it is to be intro- duced into the back of the mouth, and held in such a position that it illuminates the larynx, &c, and returns an image to the observer. Czermak substitutes a concave reflector and oil-lamp for solar illumination, which was employed by Liston, and after him by Garcia. Gerhardt, 0.—The Application of the Laryngoscope. Wiirtzb. Med. Ztschr., vol. i, p. 73. Merkel.—The more recent Contributions to Laryngoscopy and Phonetics. Schmidt, No. 10, pp. 81-103, vtu- io^- The author has collected all that has been recently written about the laryngoscope. His report embraces the history of the instrument, a description of its various forms, and the mode of using them, together with physiological observations, and numerous cases of laryngeal disease. 2. (Edema of the Glottis. Sloane, J.—On the Treatment of Scalds of the Glottis. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 14, p. 26. The author reports six cases of scalded glottis in little children, caused by drinking boiling water from the spout of a kettle. One, treated by tracheotomy, ended fatally; the others took calomel 1 gr. every hour, and tartar emetic gr. -^th to Jgth, in a saline mixture, every two hours, and recovered. Farre, Dr.—(Edema of the Glottis suddenly Supervening in the Hospital' in a Case of Jaundice from Obstruction of the Hepatic Duct. Lancet, April 21, p. 393. Pitman and Page, Drs.—Two Cases of (Edema of the Glottts; Tracheo-