NEKVOUS SYSTEM. 1G9 authors, proving* that paraplegia may be produced by uterine disease, urethral l>v vesical inflammation, prostatic disease, nephritis* enteritis, cutaneous irritation, disease of the knee, diphtheria, &c. In some cases the paraplegia appeared and disappeared altogether twice or many more times, in accordance with the production or cessation of the out- side irritation. Brown-Sequard considers the various objections which may be made against his view; as, that in some cases the paraplegia may depend on pressure exercised by an enlarged uterus ; that absorp- tion of altered urinary constituents may cause paralysis; that in cases of teething, enteritis, diphtheria, &c, the cause of the palsy may be a blood disease set up by the disturbance of digestion or respiration, or that the affection may be rheumatic if cold and wet appears to have been the exciting- cause. He allows that in a few cases the above objections may be just, but maintains that they are quite invalid for the great majority. He next shows how an external or distant irritation may produce paraplegia (i) by reflex contraction of blood-vessels; (2) by a morbid reflex influence upon nutrition. He lays stress on the importance of distinguishing reflex paraplegia in which the spinal cord is in a state of anaemia from paraplegia depending on congestion or inflammatory action. The remedies which are appropriate to the former as increasing the quantity of blood in the cord (strychnine and brucine) would be injurious, of course, in the latter, and vice versa. After remarking upon Dr. Gull's views, who holds that a myelitis exists in most, if not all, cases of urinary paraplegia, Brown-Sequard states that usually in reflex paraplegia muscles do not become atrophied, or lose their irritability. When exceptions are found, he believes that the wasting is dependent on a morbid action of the nervous system, not on mere withdrawal of nervous influence. He then gives the diagnostic signs between reflex paraplegia and that depending on myelitis, menin- gitis, the pressure of tumours in or adjoining the cord, seminal losses, hysteria, haemorrhage in the spinal canal or in the cord itself, congestion of the cord, disease of its vessels, serous effusion in the spinal canal, &c. In the matter of treatment he recommends narcotics to diminish the morbid influence of the nerve whence the irritation proceeds upon the spinal cord; revulsives to produce by a secondary exhaustion dilatation of the blood-vessels of the cord, a dependent position of the spine, special stimulants to the spinal centre, and nourishing food. The nar- cotics he prefers arc belladonna combined with opium, e. g., Extr. Bellad., gr. i; Tr. Opii, m. xx, as an injection in urethral or prostatic paraplegia. This injection is to be retained half an horn- or one hour, and its remains then washed away. It is to be repeated every two or three days. Strychnine is the only remedy which has the property of increas- ing the vital power of the spinal cord; it does this partly by a direct action, partly by increasing the supply of blood to it. When used with opium the dose is to be ^th or ^th grain ; when alone JLth ; when given with belladonna the dose is to be larger. Baths of sulphuret of potassium are also useful. Alternate applications of cold and heat to the spine are also to be employed with the view of improving its nutrition. In Lecture III, Brown-Sequard describes the symptoms and treatment of myelitis, spinal meningitis, and congestion of the spinal meninges, conditions which are the reverse of reflex paraplegia in