REPORT OX THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. CG the pliysicnl and chemical phenomena continue. They are mutually independent ; for example, when a rabbit is killed by simple sec- tion of the medulla, both nervous excitability, muscular irritability, and the electric muscular current, disappear by degrees, and in a few hours are totally extinct; but if it be poisoned with upas antiar, a different result is obtained. In twenty-five or thirty seconds the normal irritability of the muscles disappears, but the electric current persists during four or five hours. In like manner, the alkaline reaction of the muscles is not' inseparably connected with their contractile power, nor the electro-tonic state of the nerves with the property of transmitting the impulse of the will. Bernard.—Lect. XXVI. On the Effects of Woorara. Med. Times and Gazette, 15th Sept., i860. Bernard states that there are some poisons which exert no influence on the adult, and are nevertheless fatal to the young; while, on the other hand, there are poisons which act powerfully on animals that have attained their full development, without being able to produce any direct effect upon the foetus. Woorara belongs to the latter class ; if, for example, a solution of it be injected into the veins of a pregnant female, the mother is destroyed, while the foetus survives, and only dies after a time in conse- quence of the total cessation of the parental circulation. This arises from the fact that the destructive powers of woorara are in proportion to the physiological activity of the respiratory functions. Hence it is that birds experience most rapidly its fatal effects, and the embryo, which closely resembles in many respects animals low in the scale of development, scarcely, if at all, suffers from them. There is yet another point to be taken into consideration, namely, that the action of woorara is entirely through the agency of the nervous system, and, consequently, the morei highly it is developed the more fatal will be the effects of the poison. In polypi, the action of this substance altogether disappears, in consequence of their possessing no nervous system for the poison to work upon. A. Moreau.—Action of Woorara on the Electric Torpedo. Gaz. Med. dfl Paris, 20th Oct., i860, p. 657. Moreau injected a solution of woorara into the dorsal vein of a torpedo, and immediately replaced it in water. xVfter a few seconds it ceased tol swim about, and very soon afterwards it even ceased to breathe. On no\^ placing a frog, with the medulla oblongata cut in order to prevent the occurrence of any voluntary movements, on the back of the torpedo, and] pinching the latter, the fish remained motionless, but at the same moment the frog made a bound in a vertical direction. Thus it appears that an impression made by the forceps is transmitted to the nerve-centres, and returned by the nerves which excite the elecl trical organ to discharge its electricity, without, at the same time, pro! during the slightest reflex movement in any portion of the body. This experiment the author repeated a great number of times, and always with the same result. On removing the torpedo from the water, openings the abdomen, and exposing the nerves situated on the lower surface of thffl cartilage forming the upper boundary of the abdominal cavity, Moreaffl found that the application of galvanism to the motor as well as to thffl sensory branches produces no movement, but only an electrical discharge