307 BELLY. Gigvac—Shaking the Body, as an Auxiliary to the Taxis. Rev. de Ther., Med.-Chir., 16, 1858. Schmidt, No. 8, p. 219, vol. 107. A woman, cet. 55, had a large, strangulated, crural hernia. The taxis foiling, Gfignao lirid her raised by her legs and well shaken several times, after which he succeeded in reducing the rupture. (Preiss, who originated this proceeding, had his patient wheeled over a roughly paved way in a barrow, with his head downwards.) Danzel, A. F.—Practical Contributions to the Study of Strangulated Hernia. Wien. Ztschr., N. F. ii, 14, 1859. A critique of Richter's theory of strangulation. Jessop, Wm.—On a New Method for the Reduction of Strangulated Hernia. Lancet, Oct. 20th, p. 384. _ Having inverted a patient on his head and shoulders, by hoisting his legs upon the shoulders of an assistant, Jessop reduced a strangulated hernia by manipulating the abdominal walls in such a manner as to draw the bowels away from the rupture. Ulkich.—Six Remarkable Cases of Hernia. Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk.j v, 34, 35, 1859. Schmidt, No. 8, vol. 107, p. 224. In the third of these cases the neck of the sac, which formed the con- striction, had been pushed up above the internal ring; it was drawn down and divided. In the fifth, the anterior wall of the sac consisted of several protuberant cysts, with intervening depressions. Hakes.—Inguinal Hernia; Operation ; Thrombus in the Mesentery. Med. Times and Gaz., March 24, p. 293. In operating on a large scrotal hernia, Hakes found a dark-coloured, elastic swelling in the mesentery, which prevented the replacement of the bowel until the internal ring had been divided. He supposed it to be a thrombus, caused by a too energetic use of the taxis. Coulson.—Case of Strangulated, Oblique, Inguinal Hernia ; Mortifi- cation of the Bowel; Operation ; Artificial Anus ; Recovery. Lancet, June 9, p. 571. Hewett, Prescott.—The Entire Great Omentum and Portion of Large Intestine Incarcerated in an Inguinal Hernia ; Recovery after Operation. Lancet, June 9, p. 571. Adams.—Death from Rupture of a Large Hernial Sac in a Fall. Med. Times and Gaz., June 2, p. 349. Luke.—Case of Operation for Strangulated Hernia in a Young Infant. Med. Times and Gaz., July 14, p. 34. Manec.—Hernia of Ccccum and Appendix. Gaz. des Hop., 116, 18 56. Schmidt, No. 8, vol. 107, p. 228. A young, weakly man, who had never worn a truss, was operated on by Manec for a scrotal hernia, on the right side, that had been strangu- lated several days. The inguinal canal was shortened and tense, and the rupture formed an elastic swelling, of the size of a pigeon's egg, in the scrotum. The tissues immediately beneath the skin were infil- trated with pus, in which was found a crooked process, of the thickness of a quill, two seconds long. Behind this there was a sac containing a