REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. ICO anaesthesia. The causes are often obscure. Duchenne mentions as ])robable, masturbation, cold, and syphilis. Females are seldom affected. The ages of Duchenne's patients varied from 18 to 42 years. The seat of the disorder Duchenne locates in tbe cerebellum, corpora quadri- gemina, and the intervening commissure. Treatment is not hopeless, but the subject is reserved for a future work. Albers.—On Syphilis of the Brain, and the Nervous and Physical Disorders resxdting from it. AUg. Ztschr. f. Psychiatr., xvi, 3, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 10c, p. 49. Albers describes the effects of syphilis affecting the brain, and the nerves connected with it. The cranial bones are affected either in their outer or inner table, and sometimes in both at once. The necrosis is not limited by the sutures, as they become obliterated. The bones also become sclerosed, even the diploe being replaced by firm bony matter. Both necrosis and sclerosis are probably preceded by periostitis. When the head is equally affected in every part, and tho pain is general; when after deep previous melancholia, or delirium, loss of consciousness comes on with sopor, the visceral layer of the arachnoid, and the pia mater, arc found covered with vessels full of blood. The exudation is however scanty, amounting scarcely to more than a milky opacity of the membranes. Giddiness and melancholia, often of years' duration, occurring in syphilitic patients advanced in age and of robust make, followed by sudden paralytic seizure, are symptoms which are observed in cases where the cerebral arteries, both smaller and larger, arc found ossified, or more properly in a state of atheromatous degeneration. Hemorrhage or atrophic softening may result from this condition of the arteries in various parts of the brain. SedGewick.—Case of Tetanus treated with Aconite. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 28th, i860. Sedgewick details a successful case of traumatic tetanus treated by aconite. The symptoms were very severe, and though chlorodyne and sumbul were also given, yet it was only when the effects of aconite appeared that they subsided. Twice, when the aconite was suspended, once to try the effect, once because the tingling and giddiness were becoming extreme, did the spasms return, to abate again on the resump- tion of the drug. The treatment was commenced on the twelfth day after the accident, and the third day of the disease, it was continued twenty-seven days. The patient was a strong, healthy man, ret. 30. 0. Donovan.—On Delirium Tremens. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb., i860. . ... Donovan relates twelve cases of delirium tremens. His conviction is, that the disease is one of debility, that all the organs in the body arc impaired in their functions, and that the symptoms are not the results of inflammatory action. He notices particularly the aggravation of the symptoms during the night, and their remission during the day. an alternation which is more marked in bad cases. It is during the period of remission, that the best, perhaps the only opportunity is afforded of successfully combating the disease. Purgatives and emetics followed