ltKI'OUT ON LEGAIi MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. 400 Schauenste'm shows that cyanide of potassium is well adapted for the purposes of crime, as exerting its action in small quantity, as being certain, speedy, and difficult to recognise, whether during life or alter death. W.AGNER.—Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium. Archiv. der Phys. Ileilk., N. F. iii, p. 417. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 176. A beltmaker, set. 22, took on the 12th of April, 1859, a large quantity of a solution of cyanide of potassium. Some time after he was seized with abdominal pain, became convulsed, and died in a few minutes. The post- mortem appearances were as follows:—The lips and general surface were livid, the rigor mortis strong. On removing the dura mater the bitter- almond smell was distinct. The larger venous trunks of the pia mater only were full of blocd ; the brain-substance was bloodless, the ventricles normal. A little dark, fluid blood was contained in the left ventricle of the heart ; none in the other cavities. There was intense congestion of the mucous membrane of the larynx, trachea, and bronchi. On opening the stomach the bitter-almond smell was very strong ; the organ was found to contain the remains of food, in which Prof. Funke determined the presence of cyanogen. The mucous membrane of the cardia and the fundus was covered with tenacious mucus, dotted with red, and somewhat swollen. That of the rest of the organ was strongly injected on the ridges of the folds, and here and there ecchymosed. The ileum contained a yellowish fluid, the solitary follicles and Peyer's patches numerous, slightly enlarged ; the mesenteric glands were injected. Ebersbekgeu.—Case of Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium. Bayer, arztl Intell. Blatt, No. 44. The daughter of a photographer, set. 3, swallowed six grains of cyanide of potassium, dissolved in half an ounce of distilled water, and fell insensible. The author saw her almost immediately ; the eyes were closed, the lips white, the cheeks deadly pale, the extremities ice-cold, the pulse insensible, the heart-beat scarcely perceptible, the epigastrium prominent, and the sphincters rigidly contracted. The head and back were immediately sluiced with solution of nitrate of potass, mixed with ice. In ten minutes there was some relaxation of the rigid muscles, and it became possible to inject per anum a clyster containing sulphate of magnesia, and to intro- duce into the mouth solution of ammonia in gum-water. Soon the heart- beat became distinct, the colour of the lips and the warmth of the extremities returned. Complete recovery took place in thirty-six hours. Suicide by Cyanide of Potassium. Pharmac, p. 390. Poisoning by Essential Oil of Almonds. Pharmac, p. 389. ' A chemist's shop-bov mixed essential oil of almonds instead of oil of sweet almonds in a draught for a child aged nine months, who died in con- sequence. Verdict, accidental death ! Death from Overdose of Prussic Acid. Pharmac. Journal, Sept., i860. , ... . , , Avoun- man, practising medicine without qualification, was char-eel with causing the death of his mother through the negligent administration of Scheele's prussic acid. As there was no evidence either ot the cause of