ItEPOltT ON I.EdAI, M EDK'INE AND Pl'M,TC 11YG1KN E. relating to marriage, inheritance, viability of the foetus, birth, and preg- nancy. The third part treats of all those cases in which scientific research is called for in relation to crime. DaMBRE.—A Treatise on Legal Medicine and the Jurisprudence of Medi- cine, ist vol., Ghent, 1859. Canst,, vol. vii, p. 1. This bonk is intended to afford to the Belgian practitioner a complete practical guide in all his duties in relation to the administration of public justice. The first part, on the jurisprudence of medicine, is entirely prac- tical. It treats of the rights and obligations of the medical or scientific witness, medical fees and charges, the responsibilities of the medical practitioner, and all matters commonly included under the term medi- cal ethics. The second part is devoted to legal medicine strictly so called, which is understood by the authors to be the expression of all the rela- tions which exist between law and legislation and the medical and natural sciences. Beck; Gieman.—Elements of'Medical-Jurisprudence. Philadelphia, i860. This edition contains new contributions by well-known American authors, by which the treatise is advanced to the present state of the science. It is edited by Dr. Gilman, of New York, who is the author of much of the additional matter. Wundebbar.—Biblico-tahnudical Medicine. New series, part 2, State Medicine and Med. Jur. of the Ancient Israelites. Canst., vol. vii, P- I. Kaliscii.—Medico-legal Opinions of the Royal Prussian Scientific Com- mission for Medical Affairs, 1840-50. Leipsic, 1859. Canst., vol. vii, p. 1. Guekdan.—The Absolute Necessity of the Study of the Genettco-histo- rical Methods of Diseases, from the point of view of State Medi- cine, §'c. Deut. Zeitsch., vol. xiv, p. 197. Casper.—Tract. Handbook of Forensic Medicine, elaborated from origi- nal Experience. In 2 vols., with an atlas and 10 coloured plates. 3d edition, enlarged and revised, r. Biological part, pp. 680. 2. Thanatological part, pp. 913. Berlin, i860. BODILY INJURIES AIvD WOUNDS. Santlus.-— The Medico-legal and Judicial Principle of Punishment in respect of Corporeal Injuries. Henke, vol. xl, part i, pp. 95-146. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 82. The author disapproves of the usually accepted principle that the degree of punishment should be determined by the consequences of the act that is, by the disability consequent upon it; it should rather depend on'the decree of the lesion, that is to say, on the nature and quality of the injury itself. He is of opinion that this must be estimated in relation to—(1) the antecedent instrumentality of the act, (2) the organ which is . aflected, and (3) the disturbance of function induced thereby. He pro- poses to found a classification of injuries in relation to punishment, in the first place, on disturbance of function, with regard to which he distin-