487 OCCUPATION. M. Velpeau, in his report to the Academy of Sciences on the disin- fecting powder of MM. Corne and Demeaux, which consists of 100 parts of gypsum and three parts of coal-tar, pronounces favorably as regards its employment as a deodorant, and as a means of preventing the attacks of insects in dissecting-rooms, its principal inconvenience being its bitumi- nous smell. M. Velpeau's report refers principally to the employment of the powder in surgical practice, in which its advantages are represented to be counterbalanced by its drawbacks. Renault.—Bull, de l'Acad., xxiv, No. 20, p. 1132. M. Renault's conclusions from experiments on putrid animal matters at Alfort are as follows:—Coal-tar, oil of turpentine, creasote, and or- dinary tar, are all more or less disinfectant. Their power is increased by mixing them with gypsum. The mixture of common tar with gypsum is superior to that of coal-tar. Vigla.—Coal-tar employed as a Disinfectant. Jour, de Pharrn., Oct., 1859, and Jan., i860. This paper relates to the surgical use of coal-tar as a disinfectant almost exclusively. The author's conclusions are unfavorable to the claims of MM. Corne and Demeaux. Kuchenmeister.—On Disinfectants. Spirol, and its Therapeutic Appli- cations. Deut. Klin., No. xiii. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 287. Under the name of spirol, Kuchenmeister describes phenic or carbolic acid as a colourless, crystalline body, which fuses at 340 Cent., and boils at 187°, and is obtained from oil of coal-tar as well as by the distil- lation of salicine (salicylic acid ? Ed.) with lime. Kuchenmeister has applied the carbolic acid with the most satisfactory results, both in medi- cal and surgical practice and as a means of arresting putrefaction and preventing the development of fungi. VoiGT.—On the emptying of Latrines in large Towns from the point of view of Sanitary Police and Economics. Henke, vol. xli, p. 70. Abegg.—On the Purification of the Air in Hospitals. Casper, vol. xvii, p. 282. Finkelnburg.—On the New Method of removing the Refuse Materials of great Towns, with special reference to the Hydropneumatic Method of emptying employed in Turin and Milan. Casper, vol. xviii, p. 107. Pierre.— On the presence of Butyric Acid in certain Ciders and in Marsh Water, and on the inconvenience and dangers which may result therefrom. On the presence of this Acid in Earth, in the Soak- age of Dunghills, and in rotten Beetroot. Caen, 8vo, pp. 16. Lamont; Pettenkofer.—Observations on the Fluctuates of Surface- water, and the Infection of the Air arising therefrom. Bayer. Arztl. Intell. Bltt., i860, Nos. 9, 14, 15. VI. OCCUPATION. Heise.—Diseases of Workmen employed in Brickfields. Casper, vol. xvii, part 2. The author analyses minutely the injurious effects exerted on the work-