79 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. inches' increase of expansion of the chest is obtained by every freshman in three months after his arrival at Oxford. E. L. Bowles.—Observations on Stertor, and on the Varying Conditions upon ivhich it is dependent, with the Treatment necessary to its Belief. Trans. Roy. Med. andChir. Soc, i860, p. 41. Bowles finds from experiment that, in the majority of instances, stertor arises from one of three conditions:—1st. Paralysis of the velum palati. 2d. From the paralysed tongue falling back in the throat. 3d. From the presence of mucus in the pharynx and air-passages. The position of the body invariably influences the relations of the tongue; in the prone position the tongue falls forwards and away from the pharynx, whereas when the body is supine it falls back towards the pharynx, and forms a serious obstacle to the passage of air into or out of the trachea. In the supine position it is also observed that mucus or fluid ejected from the stomach remains in the back of the pharynx, while in the prone position it drains away by the mouth. From cases of disease which the author has witnessed he is led to believe—1st, that the paralysed tongue may, under certain circumstances, cause death by suffocation ; 2d, that stertor arises from the tongue falling back in the supine position of the body, and offering a serious impediment to the respiration ; 3d, that mucus (another respiratory impediment) drains away when the patient is placed on the side; and 4th, that great improvement in the symptoms follows the establishment of easy breathing in the lateral position. From an examination of the anatomy of the pharynx, the author con- cludes that, when the mouth is closed, the tongue cannot, in the majority of cases, reach the back of the pharynx ; but when the jaw drops, the angle of the jaw describes the arc of a circle, and approaches verv nearly to the spine, thus allowing the tongue to come in contact with the posterior wall of the pharynx. If the chin be bent upon the sternum by raising the head with pillows, the tongue will lie in dangerous proximity to the pharynx, even if the mouth be closed. Stertor is divided by the author into three varieties : 1st. Palatine stertor.—In this, if the mouth be closed, the soft palate is pushed upwards and backwards by the base of the tongue, and thus narrows the opening between the palate and posterior wall of the pharynx. If the mouth be partially open, sometimes the velum palati drops upon the tongue, and vibrates as the air rushes between it and the tongue. 2d. Pharyngeal stertor, which is the most frequent in apoplexy, and by far the most dangerous. This variety depends upon the base of the tongue dropping back into the pharynx, and acting as a serious impedi- ment to the passage of air ; it occurs when the mouth is wide open, and is a harsher and sharper noise than either of the other varieties. 3d. Mucous stertor, which depends upon the presence of mucus in the bronchial tubes ; it may exist alone, or in combination with either of the preceding varieties. J. II. S. Beau.—Experiments on Death by Submersion. Compt. Eend p. 1019, 4th June, i860. ' Hhefrst series of experiments was made with the view of ascertaining the principal phenomena which characterise this mode of death. A small