POTSONS AND POISONING. 455 Dr. Lange.—Case of Poisoning by Atropine. Deut. Klin., No. 19, i860. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 29. § A young woman, set. 20, subject to epileptic seizures, took, in a pet, a solution of about one third of a grain of sulphate of atropine in water. Her condition shortly afterwards was as follows • -Countenance purple red, or livid and bloated, the eyes tumid and glistening, pupils so mucff widened that the rim of the iris had become almost indistinguishable, pulse full and hard (120). No dysphagia, nor increase of the salivary secretion. Discharge of fasces and urine never involuntary. Poisoning by Extract of Belladonna. Pharm., p. 389, Jan. Three juvenile thieves had stolen some belladonna from a herbalist in Covent Garden. They made an infusion of it, which they retailed as liquorice-water to several other boys, who all suffered from the symptoms of poisoning by this drug. Lipowitz.—Poisoning by Coniine. Annalen der Phys. u. Ch., vol. cviii, p. 623. The author describes the method successfully employed by him for the detection of this alcaloid. Mitscherlich and Casper.—Asserted Poisoning by Coniine. Explana- tion of the case. Casper, vol. xv, part 2. Brown.—Poisoning by Aconite. Lancet, Oct. 6, p. 344. About a pound of aconite-root was added to a gallon of pickles, in mis- take for horseradish. Four persons who partook of these pickles were attacked, within an hour after taking them, with symptoms of poisoning— viz., "pricking sensations," " opisthotonos, trismus," "partial loss of sight," "imperceptible pulse," and coldness of surface. These symptoms continued several hours in each case. Hoppe.— Toxicology of Coffein. Gunsb. Ztsch. N. F., vol. i, p. 112. Canst., vol. v, p. 97. Hoppe's experiments were made on animals (frogs) in which the ex- tremities were severed, with the exception of the nerves snpplying^hem ; or the nerves were severed, the other connexions remaining entire. The poison was introduced either by the mouth, by application to the unbroken surface, or by subcutaneous injection. The results were as follows:— Paralysis, both of motion and sensation, the latter occurring be- fore the former. At first increased functional activity of the muscles to which the alkaloid was applied, and contraction of those on which it acts through the circulation; subsequently muscular paralysis; reddening of the tissues to which the substance was applied, and enlargement of the vessels; respiration, at first excited, subsequently diminished and impaired ; the heart's action at first excited, subsequently depressed, and finally paralysed ; the pupils invariably dilated, sometimes after previous contraction, this dilatation being due partly to exudative swelling of the eye, partly to weakening of the sphincter. The arms were more paralysed than the legs. Coffein induces a hypersemic condi- tion of the vessels, manifesting itself in injection of the stomach, lungs, eyes, and cutis, but not in the muscles or nervous centres. This hypertonia is capillary; the author connects with it the action of coffee