POISONS AND POISONING. 449 See, also, on the same subject, Erdmann, Journ. f. prakt. Chem., vol. lxxix, p. 121 (Abstr. in Journ. de Phnrra., January i860) ; and Ziurek, Polytechn. Journ., vol. civ, p. 465 (Abstr. in the same). 6. Antimony. Case of Alleged Poisoning by Antimony. Med. Gaz., July 7th and Sept. 1st. Pliarm. Journ., Sept., i860. Mrs. J., set. 42, a lodging-house keeper at Liverpool, was attacked on several occasions, viz., in February, on the 29th of March, and on the 8th and 29th of May, with vomiting and purging, for which she was throughout at- tended by Dr. Cameron. No suspicion of irritant poisoning was excited uutil May 29th ; Dr. Cameron having on the first occasion discovered that she was suffering from a tumour in the epigastrium, which he believed to be malignant. In consequence of the recurrence of the first symptoms, the urine, and subsequently the vomited matters and dejections, were examined. Antimony having been discovered, the patient was removed to a hospital, after which she gradually improved until J une 22d, on which day symptoms of perforation presented themselves, and she died on the 24th. At the post- mortem examination a large cancerous tumour of the caecum was found, which presented at its upper part several small openings, by which the con- tents of the bowel had passed into the peritoneal cavity: two small ulcers of the stomach were also discovered; but no appearances exclusively referable to antimony, evidence of the presence of which metal wTas however obtained, by chemical analysis, in all the organs. Dr. Cameron, physician to the Southern Hospital, expressed his opinion that, although all the symptoms observed during the period of her stay in the hospital might be attributed to natural disease, death was accelerated by the administration of antimony. The jury returned a verdict of not guilty. Two other members of the family had previously died under circumstances which gave ground for suspicion that they had been poisoned by antimony. No inquiry was instituted. (For chemical evidence, see • Chemical News,' Aug. 25th). Antimonial Poisoning at Yeovil. Lancet, Aug. 4th, p. 119. In July an inquest was held at Yeovil on the body of Mrs. P., set. 28, who died after suffering for many months from intractable gastro-enteritis. The cause having been suspected during life, the urine and alvine dis- charges were examined, and found to contain antimony, but not in time to save the patient's life. After death no antimony could be discovered in the organs. In the absence of collateral evidence of crime, the inquiry led to no result. 7. Mercurial Poisons. Shout.—// case of suspected Poisoning by White Precipitate. Med. Times, May 5th. A. J M., aged three months, the illegitimate child of II. M., an inmate of Fetworth Workhouse, had been suffering from trifling disorder of digestion, and subsequently diarrhoea, which was relieved by the hydrargy- rum c. creta, with rhubarb. 1 JulJue>y Early in the morning of December 21st, the patient was attacked with 20