SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 121 .thoroughly beat up, diluted with five volumes of water, four of acetic acid, and filtered. In order to ascertain if the solution of albumen is sufficiently diluted, Bodecker mixes a small quantity with half its volume of the standard solution, filters, and divides it into two portions; one of which he tests with albumen, the other with ferrocyanide of potassium. If the first becomes muddy or yields a precipitate, while the latter remains clear, the solution is sufficiently diluted. From a number of analyses which the author made of the albumen in the fluid of hydrocele, of the egg, in urine, &c, he has been led to believe that the method by volume is much more rapid, and as trustworthy as the old method by weighing. Dr. F. Harris.—On the Nature of the Substance found in the Amyloid Degeneration of various Organs of the Human Body. A Thesis for a Medical Act in the University of Cambridge. Westminster, i860, pp. 23, with a plate. In order to show that any substance found in the animal kingdom is strictly analogous to the amylaceous group in the vegetable kingdom, Harris says, it is necessary not only to show that it forms with iodine colours more or less resembling those produced by starch, but also that it is a non-nitrogenous substance ; nor are these characters even sufficient, as cholestearin (a non-nitrogenous body) gives with iodine and sulphuric acid a blue colour, much resembling that which cellulose shows under the same circumstances; so that, in order to prove the amylaceous nature of any animal substance, it is also necessary that it should, in addition to those properties, be convertible into sugar. From his observations, he has been led to make the following statement:—The pale-blue colour given with iodine by the amylaceous bodies found in the brain differs con- siderably from the colour given by starch. And although sometimes the phenomena the cerebral amylaceous corpuscles exhibit with polarized light much resemble those exhibited by starch, yet, until the former bodies have been shown to be convertible into sugar, Harris thinks we must answer this question in the negative. The next question discussed is— Is the substance found in the amyloid degenerations of the different organs of the body cellulose? It differs, the author says, from cellulose in producing a red-brown colour with iodine alone, and in its slight resistance to the action of alkalies. All attempts, too, to convert it into sugar have, up to the present time, been unsuccessful. So we are justified in concluding that the reactions of these amyloid substances with iodine and sulphuric acid indicate their analogy, not their perfect identity, with the substances of the amylaceous group. Eklexmeyer and Sciioffer.—On the Products of Decomposition of Albuminous Substances. Verh. d. natur.-med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, ii, p. 9, i860. Erlenmeyer and Schoffer found—(a) in ligamentum nuchse, leucin and tyrosin ; (i) in blood-fibrin, 14 per cent, of leucin and 2 per cent, of tyrosin ; (c) in muscle-fibrin, 18 per cent, leucin and 1 percent, tyrosin ; (d) in the white of hen's egg, jo per cent, leucin and about 1 per cent.