REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 5-A A. v. BbZOUD nnd J. Rosenthal.—On the Law of Muscular Contractions. Reichcrt's u. Du Bois's Arch., 1859, P- l3l- Canst., vol. i, p. 95. The authors confirm the fact that feeble ascending or descending electric currents conducted through the fresh nerve induce contractions only with their closure. This law gives place to another as the nerve gradually loses vitality, for a period then arrives during which both currents, at their opening as well as at their closure, are attended by contractions. Next ensues a stage when the ascending current produces only an opening, and the descending only a closing, contraction. E. Harless.—On Vital Irritation of the Nerves. (Reprint.) Canst., vol. i, p. 95. This observer also finds that, in the living nerve, muscular contractions occur only with the closure of the current, whether it be ascending or descending. In the divided nerve, and especially in the neighbourhood of the section, the double effect occurs first, then the contraction, with the interruption of the ascending and with the commencement of the descending current, takes place. This change in the properties of the nerve is no sign, the author thinks, of failing vitality; nor does it even indicate any profound alteration in the irritability, for the irritability of the nerve is augmented by desiccation, and lessened by its exposure to a moist warmth of 300 R. In either case, nevertheless, the change of law does take place. The author states, however, that in all cases the current in the reposing nerve is reversed. E. Harless.—On the Influence of the Length of an Irritated Portion of Nerve on Muscular Contraction. Munchn. gel. Anz., 1859, No. 25, p. 201; No. 26, p. 209 ; No. 27, p. 217. Canst., vol. i, p. 95. The author sought to trace the manner in which muscular contraction is affected by submitting different lengths of the nerve to the electric current. The great sciatic between the sacral plexus aud the gastrocne- mius was selected for experiment. The results of his researches show that those portions of the nerve which are nearest the cord are the most susceptible of irritation; yet, that the irritability does not diminish at a uniform rate as we approach the periphery, for there are points in the nerve at which it is strikingly less than in the adjoining portions. Prof. Budge.—Some Observations on Electric Phenomena presented by open Induction-circuits. PoggendorfF's Annalen, 1859, p. 482. Canst., vol. 1, p. 24. Budge has found that, unlike the bipolar, the unipolar current is more painfully felt on the dry than on the moist skin. A current that is imperceptible when applied to the moist tongue occasions on the dry brow a smart prickling sensation, which disappears, however, when the spot is moistened. The unipolar current excites a half-dried nerve better than the bipolar current. It acts, too, with greatest energy when the electrode and the skin are not quite in contact. Points and angles are more favorable to its action than smooth surfaces ; and even with perfect isolation, this current still produces twitchings.