20 It F.POKT ON THE IXSTITUTKS OK MKDXCINK. cartilage solely because its mode of preparation is different. If tlie former cartilage be, as usual, boiled in distilled water, the solution yields the reaction of cbondrin, whereas the reaction of glutin is obtained from an aqueous solution of the extract separated from bone-cartilage by dilute muriatic acid. But if, on the other hand, hyaline cartilage be left for some days in weak muriatic acid, its extract yields no longer chondrin. but glutin. An ossified costal cartilage, treated in a similar manner with muriatic acid, likewise yields glutin. G. Varnell, M.R.C.V.S.—A Peculiar and Unusual Disease of the Osseous Tissue in the Horse; resembling, in many of its charac- teristics, Mollities Ostium, Rhachitis, Osteoporosis, atid Fatty Dege- neration of Bone. pp.24. Reprinted from the Veterinarian, i860. Dr. IIahley.—On the same Peculiar Disease. Trans. Path. Soc, p. 308. MUSCULAB, SYSTEM. Matteucci. — On the Electrical Phenomena which accompany Muscular Contraction. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 39, p. 344. Dr. Radcliffe.—An Inquiry into the Muscular Movements resulting from the Action of a Galvanic Current upon Nerve. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 39, p. 347. Matteucci says that, during the contraction of a frog's muscle, there is an instantaneous electrical discbarge, which takes a contrary direction to that of the relaxed gastrocnemius, and in general to that of the current, which is found on applying the extremities of the galvanometer to the extremities of the limbs of a frog. By keeping the muscle in a state of tetanic contraction, it is found that the electrical phenomenon accom- panying contraction becomes gradually less intense as the contractions are more and more feeble. Matteucci relates some experiments, and then adds—In all of them, the moment that the thigh begins to contract, the needle moves in a constant direction, the deviation being greater or less according to the force of the contraction, and indicates a descending discharge, which traverses the thigh in the direction of the ramification of the nerves, and in a contrary direction to the current of the gas- trocnemius. As the abstract of Radcliffe's paper on the muscular movements resulting from the action of the galvanic current upon nerve occupies no less than twelve pages of the 'Proceedings,' we can only quote a few remarks from the latter portion of it. If, says the author, contraction attends upon the beginning of the direct current, because this current is found to favour contraction, it is not difficult to find a reason which will explain in some degree, not only why, in the period of double contraction, the strongest contraction is at the beginning of the direct current, but also why, in the first part of the period—that of single contraction— con- traction should continue to attend upon the direct current after it has ceased to attend upon the inverse current. Nor are the apparent irregu- larities in contraction, he thinks, entirely inexplicable ; for it may be that these seeming irregularities are nothing more than the natural consequence of the changes which at this time have taken place, and are taking place, in the direction of the nerve-current.