REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 888 doing so felt the respiratory movements of the nose and mouth. Apply- ing the stethoscope he heard at the same time with each respiration of the child a loud, gurgling noise at the mother's left side, where lay the thorax of tlie foetus. Bkeslau; C. Hennig; Haake.— On the Diagnosis of the Sex of the Foetus by the Frequency of the Cardiac Pulsations. Mon. f. Geb., June, i860, p. 437 etseq. In order to test the truth of Frnnkeiihiinser's assertion, that the sex of the fcetus can be predicted by simply counting the heart's beats, the average frequency of these pulsations being stated to be in the male 124, in the female 144, observations on a large scale have been made, quite independently of each other, by Breslau, Henilig, and Haake. The results obtained are embodied in three essays. Breslau examined fifty pregnant women, and found that a prediction based on Frankenhauser's statements proved false in twenty-five cases and correct in nineteen; six were doubtful cases. The frequency of the pulse after birth was noted by Breslau. The average of thirty-nine observations of males was 124 beats per minute ; the average of twenty-eight observations of females was 120. Hennig examined twelve cases. The average of the pulsations in males before birth was 143, in females 150. He also examined the relative frequency of the pulsations during the first three weeks of extra-uterine life in 120 cases. On an average there was found to be only a trifling difference in the two sexes. Haake's observations refer to fifty pregnant women. In the first place he found that the frequency of the foetal pulsations does not progressively diminish with the advance of pregnancy, but that there are considerable variations at different times, irregular in character, and for the most part iinexplainable, and this alone would interfere with the efficiency of Frankenhauser's test. The average of the foetal pulsation was in males 145, in females 143. He also found that there was no essential difference after birth. FrankenhaUSEE.—On the Funic Souffle, Compression of the Funis, and Compression of the Brain. Mon. f. Geb., May, i860. The funic souffle is produced, as Frankenhiiuser believes, by com- pression of the cord. It is to be heard chiefly in the last two months of pregnancy, and was detected by himself in about eight per cent, of the cases. It is mostly heard when the breech presents, or when the cord is much twisted. Dr. Francis Adams.—Foetal Auscultation. Med. Times and Gaz., July 2i8t, i860, p. 65. Dr. Adams maintains that the present system of foetal auscultation is founded in error; the principal ground for this statement being the various descriptions given by authorities as to the nature of the sounds hoard. He believes that the double beats occasionally heard may be caused by a couple of uterine arteries lying close together, or even by a single artery possessed of a pulsus dicrolos passing over some solid part of the child's body,