REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKUICINT.. 2(50 V. Liciitenfels, FbtepkeiOH, ThOBBURN, Scott Alison.—On Percus- sion and Auscultation. Wien. Ztschr. N. P. ii, 34, 1859. Verli. d. Phys. Med. Ges. zu Wurzburg, Vol. vii. Schmidt s Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 236. Jaffe.—Hypnotism or Braidism in its relations to Medicine, Surgery, Phy- siology, and Mesmerism. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 238. Schildracii.—Report on recent Contributions to the Literature of Sea- bathing. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 241 Medical Constitution of the Spring and Summer of i860, in France. Edin. Med. J., Nov., 486. Spratly.—A new form of Instrument for Vaccinating. Lancet, Xov. 3rd. P. Seitz.—Report respecting Medical Geography. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 125—175. Falck, v. Hasselt, Rienoeriioff.—On the action of Santonin. Deutsche Klin. 27, 28, i860. Arch. f. boll. Beitr. ii, 3, i860. Bull, do Therap. lviii, June i860. Lefort.—Citrate of Magnesia Lemonade. Jour, dc Phannacie. Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 152. Devf.rgie.—Report on the Chem. Composition and Medical employment of the Oils from the liver of the Cod, the Skate, and the Dog Fish. Bull. Gen. de Therap., May 15th, 1859. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan. i860. Devergie reports on a memoir of M. Delattre to the following effect: The oils were obtained quite pure from oleic, sulphuric and phosphoric acids, by preparing- them excluded from the air. All the oils contain a very large proportion of oleine, with some margarine, and some very small quantities of chlorine, iodine, bromine, sulphur, and phosphorus, whicb exist in a free, uncombined state. The proportions of iodine, bromine, and phosphorus, differ very slightly in the three kinds of oil. With regard to the medical properties of these oils, M. Delattre arrives at the following conclusions :—(1.) That the physiological action of the fisb-liver oils is the same, whatever be the kind employed. (2.) These oils may be considered as succedaneous to one another, and may all be employed in the treatment of scrofulous, cutaneous, and rheumatic affec- tions. (3.) The cod-liver oil is more efficacious in scrofulous phthisis than the skate or dog-fish oil. The skate oil effects more rapidly the cure of serous diarrhoea, and of mesenteric engorgement in children during dentition; it is also more efficacious in the treatment of cutaneous diseases, and of clu'onic rheumatism. (4.) The dog-fish oil appears to exercise a special action upon alterations of the bones, and in all cases it may be advantageously substituted for cod-liver oil. M. Devergie found, that of 20 patients, 18 preferred the dog-fish to the cod oil, and some who coidd not take the latter, tolerated the former. The ques- tion as to the relative value of the 3 oils, was left undecided from the absence of sufficient evidence. Davaine.—Researches into the development and propagation of the Trico- cephahis and Ascaris Lumbricoides. J.dc la Physiol.,No. vi, April, 1S59. Dr. Davaine has satisfied himself that the ova of the tricoccphalus dispar, and ascaris lumbricoides, are not hatched in the intestine, but