149 GENERAL SYSTEM. HUGHES. On Periodicity as a Character of Disease. Lancet, Aug-. 4. Hughes argues, that ague is an affection of the sympathetic system, and thai its periodical character is dependent upon a periodicity impressed upon the sympathetic system, and manifested in all the phenomena, mor- bid and natural, over which it presides. The beneficial action of quinine and arsenic depends upon then influence as toners of the sympathetic. Kennedy.— Observations on Typhus and Typhoid Fevers as seen in Dublin. Edin. Med. J., Sept. Kennedy supports the view that typhus and typhoid fevers are the result of a common poison. He sums up his arguments in the following propositions:—(1) That typhus and typhoid fevers exist in Paris, London, Sweden, parts of America, and Dublin ; and relapsing fever in Great Britain and Ireland. (2) That in Dublin other types of fever exist, equally distinct from any of these; of which gastric, remark- able for its great duration, the congestive typhus of Armstrong, the febris nervosa of Huxham, and in summer the inflammatory fever, may be adduced as examples. (3) That these may exist in the same family, and at the same time. (4) That when a whole family is attacked at once, some may exhibit spots, and others not. (5) That two crops of eruption, as observed long since by Grant, are not uncom- mon, in the typhus of Dublin, and either may precede the other. (6) That one of these may be a bright red, and the other of a much darker hue, and that, they often co-exist. (7) That petechia? may exist with typhoid fever, and bright lenticular spots without this fever. (8) That bright lenticular spots may be followed by petechia?. (9) That it would seem as if typhus and typhoid fever could exist in the same patient and at the same time. (10) That whilst in London intestinal haemorrhage is common in typhoid fever, it is much rarer in Paris and Dublin. (11) That in Dublin the same haemorrhage is not uncommon in typhus. (12) That cerebral complication is more com- mon to typhoid fever than is usually taught. He argues also that as in scarlatina we have the greatest amount of variety of symptoms without a corresponding multiphcation of poisons, the same may be the case also with regard to typhus and typhoid. He indicates tempe- rament, habits, constitution, and amount of poison, as modifying causes, capable of explaining, in great part, the differences of these fevers. Levy.—On the Sulphate of Cinchonine in the treatment of Intermittent Fevers in the French Army. Bull. Gen. de Therap., May, i860, Edin. Med. J., Oct. Levy states that sulphate of cinchonine is sufficient for the treat- ment of most fevers which occur in spring and up to the beginning of June, and even in a certain number of cases in summer and autumn. In winter, when there are only relapses without any tendency to the malignant type, the same treatment will do, preceded or not by a dose of the sulphate of quinine. In malignant fevers cinchonine should not be tried. Both cinchonine and quinine are useless in cases of splenic tumour of long standing. W AJLLEB.—Further Contributions io the Solution of some debated Questions