407 DISEASES OF THE FCETUS, ETC. Ed. C. HtJIMB.—Congenital (?) Malignant Disease of the Right Eyeball. Med. Times and Gaz., July 14th, i860, p. 29. In Hulme's case there was extensive malignant disease of the eyeballs and base of the brain in a child who died a*. 2$ years. Shortly after birth a peculiar look was noticed in the right, and afterwards in the left, eye, and the eyeballs became too prominent. The author believes the disease to have been congenital. Birnbaum.—Anatomico-pathological Examination of a Congenital Luxa- tion of the Hip on the left side. Wien. Wohnschr., 3 and 4. Caust., vol. iv, p. 16. Holmes Coote.—On Congenital Dislocations of the Rip. Lancet, Dec. aad, i860, p. 609. t Holmes Coote gives a short risumS of the anatomical conditions present in cases of congenital dislocation of the hip. Many cases are, he believes, included under this head which have no right to be so denominated. He has not met with a case in which the deformity could be rectified, although the patients may gain power of walking freely, and the spinal curvature be lessened by proper apparatus. Dr. Alex. R. Simpson.—Case of Intra-uterine Smallpox. Edinb. Med. Journ., Nov., i860, p. 448. Dr. Bruce.—Case of lntra-uterine Smallpox. Edinb. Med. Journ., Nov., i860, p. 479. J. Jardine Murray.—Contributions to Teratology; undescribed Mal- formations of the Lower Lip occurring in Four Members of One Family. Brit, and For. Quart. Rev., Oct., i860, p. 50a. DEFECTS, ATRESI-E. Claudius.—On the Development of Acardiac Monsters. Kiel, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 7. The work of Claudius is the result of an inquiry into the particulars of 112 cases of acardiac monsters. He finds that they are always one of twins; that they are always of the same sex as the normal foetus ; that there is always a fissure of the sternum present; that the whole body is never developed, either the upper or the lower half being more deve- loped than the remainder. There are two groups—1, the "acormi," without trunk; 2, the " acephali," without head. In a third of the cases there were no sexual organs. In the males the testicles were always found at the entrance of the inguinal canal. The kidneys were present in more than two thirds of the cases, with their ureters, bladder, and urachus. The lungs are almost always wanting, also the cceliac artery. The aorta divides into two branches. Near the aorta lie one or two venous canals, which are not the venae cavse, but the vessels from which the v. azygos and hemi-azygos are developed. Sometimes con- siderable cavernous enlargements of the venous system are met with. The whole capillary system of the placenta belongs to one (the sound) foetus ; and two large vessels, an artery and a vein, pass from the umbili- cal cord of the normal through the placenta to the place of insertion of the umbilical cord of the monstrosity. The blood, therefore, runs in the