315 GENITOURINARY ORGANS. Stiuctcre.—Report on Three Cases treated by External Incision. Med. Times and Gaz., May 12, p. 472. Two of tht'se were cases of extravasation of urine, which in one reached nearly as high as the umbilicus. In the third case the orifice of the urethra was °so contracted that it would hardly admit a small probe, and three or four fistulous openings existed just behind the glans penis, through which nearly all the urine escaped. The strictured part was freely divided. Subsequently the fistulce were closed by transplanting a flap from the prepuce, and the urine was diverted through the perinseum by a canula fixed in the urethra, which Dr. Humphrey had opened in this situation. BlBIGEH.—Dangerous Bleedings in the Treatment of Old Strictures of the Urethra. Wurztb, Med. Ztschr., vol. i, p. 55. (b) Abscesses. Venot.—On Abscesses in the Neighbourhood of the Urethra. Journ. de Bord., 2 ser., v, p. 113 sqq., Mars. Abscesses which occasionally are associated with blennorrhcea are of two sorts—those which concern the cellular tissue round the urethra, and those originating in the follicles of the urethral mucous membrane. The former are phlegmonous swellings, generally on the under surface of the penis, very commonly in the angle between the penis and scrotum, and end by healthy suppuration and cicatrization ; they do not obstruct the flow of urine. The latter begin as small, inconspicuous, deeply seated tumours, which are hard, and may remain long stationary; they some- times become painful, enlarge, and assume the characters of abscesses, which may burst internally or externally, or in both directions. They give rise to strictures and urinary fistulae. Venct recommends early evacuation when they enlarge aud become painful. (c) Painful Condition of the Urethra. Cosxes.— Urethralgia. Journ. de Me'd. de Bord. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 232. V.—Urinary Bladder. I. INJURY. SPBNOE.—Case of Rupture of the Urinary Bladder. Edin. Med. Journ., May, p. 981. 2. displacement. Johnston, Henry.—Singular Case of Inversion of the Urinary Bladder during Pregnancy. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April 16th, p. 126. A young woman, set. 20, about four months pregnant, after lifting a box, felt great uneasiness in her back, accompanied by a frequent and urgent desire to pass water, together with vomiting and great tenesmus. The bladder protruded through the meatus urinarius in the form of a soft, fluctuating, pyriform tumour, and was at first mistaken for the mem- branes, a miscarriage being supposed. On gently compressing it the protruding bladder receded, and the symptoms were at °once relieved.