NERVOUS SYSTEM. 41 Dr. Wiliielm Manz.—The Ganglions, and Nerves of the Intestines. Ber. d. naturf. Ges. zu Freiburg, Br. ii, I, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 158. The researches were chiefly made on pig's intestine. 1. The ganglions are tolerably numerous; but irregularly distributed in the nervous layer. 2. They have each an enclosing membrane, and consist'of packets of from two to six cells. 3. The membrane appears to be, however, merely a prolongation of the neurilemma of the nerve to which the ganglion is attached; this may, perhaps, be better understood if we describe the ganglion as being simply a collection of cells within the nerve-sheath. 4. The size of the ganglion depends more on the size of the nerve on which it is situated than upon theactual number of cells of which it is composed, for the number of the cells varies but little. 5. The size, too, of the cells is nearly the same in all the ganglions of the same intestine. 6. The largest cells are generally those in the centre of the little heap. 7. Each cell is circular in shape, and possesses fine, granular contents, and a well-defined nucleus, with a nucleolus in its interior. 8. In the intestine of the ox, the ganglia are, in general, smaller than in that of the pig. 9. The individual cells composing them, on the other hand, are larger. 10. In the sheep, the ganglia, as well as the cells, are similar in size to those found in the pig. 11. The intestine of the rabbit has very large ganglia, but very small cells. 12. In man, the ganglia are exceedingly small; they seldom consist of more than ten or twelve cells ; have distinct nuclei, but scarcely any nucleoli. 13. In the intestine of the child, ganglia are also to be found, but neither nuclei nor ganglion-cells, with distinct cell-walls, are to be detected in them. They seem to be composed merely of fine, dark granules, collected together in little groups, which are of about half the size of the ganglion-cells met with in the human adult. A. Gubler.*— On the Dark Coloration of the Nerve-centres in the White Races of Mankind. Journ. dela Phys., No. 9, p. 157, January, i860. In 1848, Rayer called attention to the fact that the brains of negroes are darker than those of whites. Gubler now calls attention to a some- what analogous fact, namely, that individuals among the white races, with dark eyes, black hair, and swarthy complexions, have a considerable amount of pigment deposited in their nerve-centres, while in fair people little or none is to be detected. In fact, that the deposit of colouring matter in the nerve-substance is in direct proportion to the amouut of pigment distributed in other parts of the body. Prof. 0. Funke.—On the Chemical Reaction of Nerve-substance. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., 1859, p. 835. (1) The fresh spinal cord of animals (frogs and rabbits) poisoned with woorara has a neutral reaction. (2) The reaction of the gray nerve-sub- stance appears to be the same as that of the white. (3) Some hours after death in the rabbit—from eighteen to twenty—the nerve-substance has an acid reaction,which continues until putrefaction setsin, when it gradually becomesagainneutral.andatlastalkaline. (4) If fresh nerve-substance (spinal cord of a rabbit) be kept in water at a temperature of 45°—500 C. during five or ten minutes, it becomes at once acid ; this change is even more observable if the water be at a boiling temperature. Funke concludes