345 PREGNANCY. cions on one side than the other, and the thickest part of the skull pre- senting in the narrowest part of the pelvis. It is this which accounts for the curious fact that a woman with deformed pelvis may at one time be delivered easily, and at another time with serious difficulty. In the equally contracted pelvis, in the transversely contracted pelvis, or in cases where the contraction affects the conjugate diameter alone, turning is of no assistance. When urning on the feet is contemplated, a perfect diagno- sis of the diameters of the pelvis must bs made out; and the position of the child, and the fact of its being still alive or the reverse, carefully ascer- tained. The operation is contra-indicated when the uterus has been long contracted closely on the child, the waters having some time escaped ; and when the head has been long impacted low down in the narrow pelvis. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE UTERUS. Chas. D. Arnott.—On what is commonly called " Rigidity of the Os Uteri." Lancet, Dec. 17, i860, p. 484. Mutcalfe.—Occlusion of the Os Uteri during Labour. Louisville Med. Journ., March. Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, i860, p. 719. Prof. v. Siebqld.—Closure of the Os Uteri as an Impediment to Delivery. Mon. f. Geb., 1859, vol. xiv, p. 96. A case of labour is related, that of a primipara, in whom the os uteri was for a time impervious, and the uterus enclosing the head mistaken for the bladder of membranes. The finger was at last introduced into the os uteri, and the labour soon after concluded. Abeille.—Some Reflections on Rigidity of the Os Uteri during Parturi- tion, and the Means of Remedying the same. Gaz. Hop., July io, i860. TUMOURS EXTERNAL TO UTERUS, IMPEDING DELIVERY. Noeggeratii.—Dystocia caused by an Incarcerated Ovarian Tumour. With Remarks. N. Y. Journ. Med., March, i860, p. 200. TOO GREAT RAPIDITY OF LABOUR. Dr. P00LE.—Rapid Labour. Lancet, Dec. 22, i860, p. 616. Olsiiausen.— Cases of Sudden Birth, with Dropping of the Child. Mon. f. Geb., July 1860, p. 33. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 1, i860, p. 219. Four cases are related in which birth took place suddenly, and the child fell, the funis being torn through in all the cases. In'two cases the cranium was fissured in consequence of the injury received. In one case only was there any considerable hemorrhage Irom the funis. In all, the children were smaller than usual. UNUSUAL CONDITIONS ON THE PART OF THE CHILD. Plural Births. Dessauer.—Statistics of Plural Births. Mon. Bl. f. Med. Stat., i8?q Jul. Sclimidt, vol. 107, p. 49. '* y>