REPORT ON l'KACTICAL MEDICINE. transformation of colls. It finds its constant regular expression in tuberculization. All tuberculization (tuberculoid metamorphosis) does not originate in tuberculosis. The latter may, in its earlier stage (that of exudation, cell-formation), bo present, even if there be no tubercle. Tuberculosis, wo consider, that morbid process which, when it pursues its usual course, always leads to tuberculization ; while we ascribe cancer and sarcoma, which accidentally tuberculize, to an entirely different process, and should never give the name of tubercle to thickened caseous pus. (9) Inasmuch as tubercle arises from the accumulation in the tissues of a great variety of cells, which in the majority of cases are destroyed, it is entirely without proper character- istic elements. Of the remains of the cells, the shrivelled nuclei present the most constant external characters; we may, therefore, retain for these the name tubercle-corpuscle." Buhl, Rindfleiscii, Beer, Wedl.—On the Formation of Pus. Vir- chow's Archiv., xvi, xvii. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 19. Buhl finds, in inflamed lungs, cells containing pus cells and a nucleus. The pns corpuscles are formed, he thinks, by endogenous growth. Kindfleisch states that the corneal corpuscles of the frog become large tubes (during inflammation) filled with numerous nuclei. The tubes divide, and become subsequently separate cells. Beer finds in inflamed kidneys that pus formation always proceeds from the connective tissue corpuscles. Wedl has observed the nuclei of the walls of small vessels to take an active part in the development of the cells of adjacent new growths, as abscesses, tubercles, cancer, &c. Wagner describes the formation of new lymphatic elements out of connective tissue corpuscles. Fuhrer denies the universal application of Virchow's doctrine of cell-pathology. Henle denies the existence of Virchow's connective tissue corpuscles, but admits that there are certain nuclear or celloid bodies, which seem to be the same as the nuclei of Virchow's corpuscles. Weismann traces the origin of a small neuroma from the nuclei of the neurilemma of an injured nerve. Lotzbeck found a tumour from the cheek to consist of sweat glands hypertrophied by unusual growth. Weber describes pus corpuscles, and the cells of lipomatous, sarcomatous, and cancerous growths, as originating from the connective tissue corpuscles by partition and endogenous j)roduction. Forster describes and figures a series of new formations of very various kinds, proceeding from connective tissue cells. Klob has observed the transition of a gelatinous sarcoma into fat. The result of Forster's and Klob's examination of amyloid sub- stance from the spleen was, that it belonged certainly to the group of albuminoid substances, and also contained a body similar in chemical respect to starch or cellulose. The composition of the albuminoid matter was 0=53-58 11=7 N= 15-04 percent. On applying iodine and S03, the blue reaction was perfectly exhibited. Schmidt, from examination of a spleen, concludes that animal amyloid matter is a nitrogenous albuminoid. Paulitzky has converted C. amylcaca from the prostate into sugar, by mingling them with saliva. He finds these bodies to result from amyloid degeneration of the parenchymatous cells of the gland. Luys finds constantly amyloid corpuscles in the