332 Hlii'OKT ON SUKCWtY. 14. Amaurosis. IIildtge.—On Hysterical Amaurosis. Dub. IIosj). Gaz., January J 6, P- 25- . Siiaukky.—Case of Hysterical Amaurosis. Dub. IIosp. Gaz., March j c, p.85. llildige reports two cases of amaurosis associated with suspended men- struation occurring in young women. No organic lesion was detected with the ophthalmoscope. Both recovered under a tonic treatment. Sharkey's patient, a delicate, nervous lady, vet! 19, became convulsed, delirious, and perfectly blind four days after her first confinement. Hildige.—On Amaurosis in Pregnancy. Dub. IIosp. Gaz., April 2, P-99- , ... Hildige remarks that the occurrence of amaurosis immediately after delivery is comparatively rare. It more generally commences in the first months of pregnancy, and disappears after delivery. Hildige found decided congestion of the optic papillae in all the cases of amblyopia arising from pregnancy that he had examined. He attributes the blindness in Sharkey's case to congestion of the retina and optic nerve. 1 Cancer of Eyeball. Hulme.— Case of Conyenital (?) Malignant Disease of the liiyht Eyeball. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 29, July 14. A case of medullary carcinoma of both eyes, first noticed in the left shortly after birth, and ending fatally by extension backwards to the brain. 16. Accommodation. Lawrence, Z.—The Utrecht School of Ophthalmic Surgery. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 10, p. 449; Dec. 15, p. 579; Dec. 29th, p. 634. A resume of Donder's investigations in the disorders of accommodation, together with an account of some improved methods in the ophthalmoscopic investigation of the eye, and of some miscellaneous points of interest in the pathology and therapeutics of ocular disease. Solomon, Y.J.— The Surgical Treatment of Short-sight by Division of the Ciliary Muscle. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 548, June 2. Solomon finds that by dividing " the muscle of the lens" in a direction transverse to its fibres, its power to draw the lens forward is so far lessened that the focal range becomes doubled, both for distant and near objects. OimiOP.'EDIC SUllGEEY. Jordan, Fauneaux — The Anatomy and Surgery of Talipes Equino-varus. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 7, p. 8. n 1 e A paper read before the Birmingham and Midland Counties Branch ot the British Medical Association.