150 JtKl'OKT UN ntACTIOAL MEDICINE. in Syphilis. Trag. Vierteljahrschr. lxvi, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb. Vol. 108, p. 42. Waller relates three cases of syphilis in which the urine was examined to detect the presence of mercury, after it had beep adminis- tered. With regard to its spontaneous excretion, it appears that in ono case no traco could be found after three years had elapsed; in a second, no trace was found at the end of five months; in a third, none was found after an interval of six weeks, but some doubtful indications were observed at the end of five months. In two of the cases, iodide of potassium failed to produce any elimination of mercury. Two of the cases afford proof of the existence of syphilis, independent of any mercury. The general result of the cases is quite contradictory of Lorinser's views as to the pernicious effects of mercury, and the therapeutic effects of Pot. Iod. in procuring its elimination. Overbeck.—On Ilydrargyrosis. Wicn. Med. Wochcnschr., 13, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 44. Overbeck produced a state of mercurial cachexia in dogs by inunction. He found metallic quicksilver in the form of microscopic particles in the kidneys, liver, salivary glands, intestinal canal, and blood. It was not constantly present, even in the gravest cachexia. In the bones and lymphatic glands not even microscopic traces could be found, and only occasionally in the bones were there slight chemical traces. The diges- tive mucous membranes and the skin were inflamed and ulcerated, the ulcers presenting a gangrenous character. The bones were never diseased in any way. No bacony deposits in the spleen or liver, no iritis, giunmata, or sarcocele were ever produced. The blood was always dark and thick; in the worst cases it contained enormous fibrinous coagula; sometimes there was extreme anasmia. Renouard.—A Memoir on Medical Doctrines laid before the Parisian Academy of Medicine at the Meeting held May 24th, 1859. Eeport on this Memoir by Gibert at the Meeting held July z6lh. Discussion at the Meetings of August gth and 16th. Mem. ct Bullet, de l'Acad. de Med., 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 114. Renouard endeavours to enforce as a general principle in therapeutics the old axiom, " A juvantibus et lcedentibus fit indicatio." He contends that we shall never find the key to successful treatment in theories founded on even recondite analysis of the human organism, but solely in observation and experience. Bouillaud maintains, on the contrary, that indications of treatment must proceed from our knowledge of the nature of a disease, and that it belongs to the genius of discovery to find out the right means to counteract the disorder. Gibert, the reporter, sup- ports Renouard, and remarks that experiment in therapy rules everything. Ward ell on Enteric Fever. Lancet, Nov. 17th. Wardell's patients resided hi a row of houses whose sanitary arrange- ments appear to have been good, except in the important particular that the drain from the privies ran within a few feet of the pump-well. The well waters had long been complained of, and after heavy rains it was said to have a bad taste.