DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 89 In the class mammalia, the proportion of glucogcne in the liver is greater in small than in large animals. From the livers of birds it rapidly dis- appears after death, while it remains for a long time in the livers of cold- blooded animals, such, for example, as frogs and fish ; this is specially- remarkable in the liver of the ray, which may be permitted to putrefy without the glucogene disappearing. The liver of the ray is alkaline, and evolves ammonia, and it is the alkali most probably which hinders the glucogene from passing into sugar. The livers of birds, in which the transformation of glucogene takes place very rapidly, are frequently acid. Glucogene has been discovered by Bernard in the oyster and in insects, and he thinks it may likewise be found in the Crustacea. Glucogene behaves exactly like vegetable starch, having nearly the same reactions and composition. It is transformed into sugar by means of vegetable and animal ferments, by sulphuric and hydrochloric acids. Nitric acid changes it into a kind of gum and mucic acid. Glucogene does not reduce the oxide of copper. Iodine immediately gives with it a red colour, not first a blue, then violet, and lastly red, in which respect it dilfers from vegetable starch. Bernard thinks, however, this difference in the reaction of these two substances is entirely due to a slight change the glucogene has undergone during the process of extraction from the liver. With respect to the origin of glucogene, Bernard remarks that it is im- possible for us any longer to say that it is the product of the vegetable starch taken as food, for the livers of animals that have been for months strictly confined to a diet of boiled flesh contain it, and it is well known that boiled muscle contains neither starch nor sugar. The following experiments were instituted with the view of discovering the source of hepatic glucogene. Two dogs, of about the same size, were tkept during eight days without food or drink of any kind. At the end of this period, one received every two days about an ounce of fat and Iftbout ten ounces of water; the other, the same weight of gelatin, and a I similar quantity of water. Neither the fat nor the gelatin contained any isugar. In eight days, two hours after being fed, the animals were killed |by section of the medulla oblongata. The lacteals of the dog fed with fat contained a milky fluid, while in those of the other dog the fluid was i dear and transparent. In the liver of the animal fed on gelatin abundance !of glucogene was found, while in that of the one fed on fat neither gluco- gene nor sugar could be detected. Hence it appears that the animal organism can prepare glucogene from gelatin, but not from fat. In a second series of experiments on two other dogs, which had in a I similar manner fasted during eigbt days, Bernard administered to one of ii;hem from about seven to ten ounces of well-washed ox-fibrin (blood ?), 1 ind to the other an equal quantity of vegetable starch. At the end of i :ight days, when the animals were killed, plenty of glucogene was found tin the liver of the dog fed on fibrin, and none in that of the animal fed on • -tarch. So it would appear that the source of the glucogene in the animal economy is not to be looked for in the starch of the vegetable kingdom. Dr. Pavy. — On the Alleged Sugar-forming Function of the Liver. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 40, p. $28. This communication is an abridgment of a paper hearing the same