MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 21 J. BliCLAKP.—On the Heat produced during Muscular Contraction. Compt. Rend., 5th March, i860, p. 471. It is generally admitted that a certain amount of heat is generated in the substance of the muscles at the moment of their contraction. Be'clard now adds, that there are two different kinds of muscular action, and that they develop different quantities of heat. 1. When the muscular contraction is merely sufficient to maintain in equilibrium a resistance which it does not overcome. This the author names "contraction statique." 2. When the muscular action is so powerful as to overcome the resistance, and give rise to visible results, as, for example, when the mus- cles of the arm move a weight. This the author names "contraction dynamique." From the results of a great number of experiments made upon himself, he concludes that the " contraction statique" develops a much greater amount of heat than the " contraction dynamique." Dr. M. Foster.—On the Effects produced by Freezing on the Physiolo- gical Properties of Muscles. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 40, p. 523. Tbe conclusions Foster came to were : 1. Completely frozen muscles are not irritable to the strongest galvanic stimulus we possess. 2. Muscles which have been frozen for a short time only (five or ten minutes at the longest) may regain their irritability on being thawed. 3. Muscles which have been frozen for more than ten minutes never regain their irritability. 4. The loss of irritability seems to be due more to the occurrence of freezing than to any mere fall of temperature. For, the author says, although the irritability diminishes with the fall of temperature, yet the great loss and final extinction takes place only when the tissue itself is frozen. 5. A muscle may be in great part frozen, and yet capable of producing a movement when stimulated by the contraction of the unfrozen part. 6. The passage into the frozen condition is accompanied by no contraction. 7. Frogs' limbs freeze exactly in the same position as they were pre- viously maintaining. 8. The reaction of frozen muscle, as indicated by litmus paper, is neutral or faintly alkaline, thus, the author says, differing from recently dead muscles. 9. There is no exact relation between the duration of the frozen state and the duration and amount of the revived irritability. A muscle frozen three minutes does not regain twice as much irritability, or remain twice as long irritable, as one frozen six minutes. 10. Muscles once frozen, however "kindly" treated, eventually die sooner than those left untouched. 11. In muscles which never regain their irritability, the act of thawing is accompanied by the onset of a peculiar rigor, differing from " rigor mortis," and resembling "rigor caloris " in being an active contraction, i.e. in producing a movement. This contraction is never seen in muscles destined to regain their irritability.