SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 127 Boou in the bottle to which filtered air was admitted, as in the one freely exposed to the atmosphere. If, however, the yolk was mixed with water and well boiled, by being kept at a temperature of 1600 C. during a con- siderable time, it was then possible to preserve it fresh by means of the cotton wool. Sometimes, however, even this experiment did not succeed. Milk behaved like the yolk of the hen's egg, sometimes yielding one, some- times another, result. In order to discover the cause of this, Schroder made several experiments with the different constituents of milk, and the conclusion he came to is that casein, whey, and milk-sugar, when kept separate under filtered air, remain perfectly unchanged ; but when united in the form of milk, from some as yet unknown cause, are prone to putrefy. Fatty casein, coagulated by means of acetic acid, may be kept along with a solution of cane-sugar, under filtered air, for at least two months, with- out fermenting ; whereas when the same substances are exposed to ordinary air, fermentation soon sets in, and the cane is transformed into grape sugar, which in its turn passes into lactic acid. Coagulated hen's blood, after being kept in contact with filtered air during"forty-one clays, was found still unchanged ; while another portion of tbe same' blood in contact with non-filtered air became putrid in eleven days. Boiled urine remained fresh for a year and a half, in contact with filtered air. These and other experiments show, that nearly all organic substances such as blood, fibrin, albumen, casein, whey, milk-sugar, cane-sugar, grape-sugar, boiled starch, urine, &c, put into a glass vessel, brought to the boiling point, and while still hot closed up with cotton wool, may remain during months and years unchanged, although filtered air has free access to them. Only muscle, yolk of egg, and milk, in the generality of cases, it appears, cannot be so preserved. The substances never become mouldy, and even the fermentation of muscle differs from the ordinary putrefactive process in open air. Whether the fermentation and putrefaction of organic substances be induced through the contact of minute organized germs floating in the air, or of an unknown chemical substance which cotton wool has the power of attracting.it is impossible to say; but the above-mentioned experiments, at least show that mould can only be developed from spores or germs carried by the air, and that cotton wool possesses the power of arresting them. Why muscle, yolk of hen's egg, and milk should occasionally putrefy in spite of filtered air alone being permitted to come in contact with them, is a point most difficult to explain, and one which Schroder admits is not perfectly in accord with the before-men- tioned theory. Van den Brock (Compt. Rend., p. 773, 23d April, i860) calls the atten- tion of the Academy to two papers, one on the fermentation of the juice of the grape, the other on the putrefaction of uncooked animal substances, which he published in 1858 and 1859. The conclusions he arrived at are—1, oxygen has no influence either on the fermentation of the juice of the grape, or on the putrefaction of animal matters ; and 2, it is an organic ferment which produces putrefaction, without the aid of the atmosphere, except in so far as it is the vehicle of the ferment.