439 POISONS AND POISONING. acid, there is no luminous vapour in the distillation-tuhe, as in the ordi- nary process, and the whole of the phosphorus, of which very little is converted into phosphorous acid, is contained in the distilled water. It exists in the form either of minute globules of phosphorus or, if in very small quantities, suspended in the water, which appears luminous if agi- tated in a dark room. As a preliminary tentative method, the following is recommended. It is well known that phosphorus volatilizes at ordi- nary temperatures and even under liquids, which become thereby impreg- nated with phosphorus vapour. In contact with atmospheric air, it becomes diffused in it to a degree varying according to the temperature and mode of contact. If paper moistened with solution of nitrate of silver is exposed to a liquid in this state, the silver is reduced and the paper blackened, and in this way the most minute trace of diffused phos- phorus can be detected. The end of a single lucifer, which contains about Tiff of a grain of phosphorus, diffused in half an ounce of water or milk and introduced into a flask, still yielded, after three or four days, an abundant and distinct reaction. In the case of the contents of the stomach, &c, the plan recommended is to dilute the liquids with water, to add thereto a little sulphuric acid in a flask, in which a strip of paper is to be suspended, moistened with solution of sugar of lead. If this affords no indication of the presence of hydrosulphuric acid, the paper moistened with nitrate of silver may be substituted. Au intense black- ening of the paper, especially on warming the flask, clearly indicates the presence of phosphorus; if necessary, several such strips of paper may be prepared, and treated with aqua regia; the solution thus obtained will yield to the ordinary tests proof of the presence of phosphoric acid. In order to determine the phosphorus quantitatively, Scherer adds to Mitscherlich's apparatus a couple of glass flasks, connected with each other by a glass tube. Into the first, containing distilled water, the distillation- tube passes; the second contains a neutral or slightly ammoniacal solu- tion of nitrate of silver, and is intended to fix whatever traces of phos- phorus may not be absorbed by the water. The globules of phosphorus, if any, contained in the water are united by gently warming it, and the liquids in the two flasks are united, gently heated, and the whole solu- tion treated with aqua regia and filtered. In the filtrate phosphoric acid is to be sought for. In cases in which the matters supposed to contain phosphorus have been so much exposed to the air as to convert it into phosphorous acid, Scherer recommends that Mitscherlich's apparatus should be charged with sulphuric acid and pure zinc, and heated so long as the hydrogen developed carries with it phosphuretted hydrogen. The product may be passed through a solution of nitrate of silver, in order to fix the phosphorus, which will be determined as phosphoric acid. Filhol.—On the Processes employed by Chemists for the detection of Phosphorus, Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxvii, p. 167. This paper is devoted to a criticism of the chemical proof of poisoning by phosphorus, in cases in which it has altogether undergone transformation into phosphorous acid. This kind of poisoning is now more frequent in France than poisoning by arsenic. Lewinsky.—Poisoning by Phosphorus. Wien. Ztsch., N. F. i. p. n2, Canst, vol. v, p. 85.