231 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. constricted part, is not irrational, because after the coecum is emptied its position is changed, and the ilio-ccecal valve is no longer closed. Peri- tonitis is to be met by local and general bleeding, and cold or warm applications, the purgatives being omitted. When nlcers have formed, he advises entire rest, and strict diet,;with calomel gr.^—| bis vel ter. die, and blisters to the ccccal region. If signs of perforation appear, opium is to be given in full doses gr. \—i. o. seinihora until the pains greatly diminish, and then at longer intervals. Trousseau.—On Epidemic Dysentery. Gaz. des Ilopit. 10, 14. Med. T. & Gaz., Aug. 4th. Trousseau considers epidemic dysentery as the most murderous of all diseases of the kind, and states that its causes may be quito inappre- ciable. In the matter of treatment, be strongly disfavours tbe rapid arrest of the flux by opium, whicb occasions the appearance of typhoid symptoms. Bretouneau's treatment by sulphate of soda, and the English mode by calomel, have both proved successful. Ipecacuanha he seems to discard. The administration of sufficient nourishment in the form of soups, barley and rice water, he deems of vital importance.' De Ricci.—On Alum and Ice in Hcematemesis. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Aug. i860. In De Ricci's case profuse hemorrhage, apparently from a gastric ulcer, had nearly proved fatal, but was at last arrested by full doses of a bun repeated every 3 hours with ice, and a bladder of ice to the epigastrium, while stimulants and food were administered solely by the rectum. A relapse occurred after a pause of 95 hours, and it was not until no food bad been administered by the mouth for 140 hours that the patient arrived at a state of safety. He recovered perfectly. Carter.—Some Suggestions for the Improvement of Paracentesis Abdom. m Cases of Ascites. Med. T. & Gaz., Sept. 15th. Carter recommends the use of a fine trocar introduced obliquely up- wards, the removal of only a small quantity of fluid sufficient to rebeve distension, and the earlier employment of paracentesis. He objects against the present method the danger of peritonitis, the shock to the system produced by tbe evacuation of so large an amount of fluid, the frequent oozing of serum through the wound, and the tendency to congestion and re-effusion in consequence of the blood-vessels having lost then- support. Klchenmeister.—On the Conversion of Cysticercus Cellulosa: into Tamia Solium. Deutsche Klinik., No. 20. Med. T. and Gaz., Oct. 27th. Kuchenmcister administered to a criminal measly pork on Nov. 24th 1859, and January 18th, i860, and made the autopsy March 31st Almost 50 per cent, of the cysticerci were found in the condition of tapeworms. The prisoner was in good health, his muscles contained no cysticerci. Sappey and RoBm.—On Vascular Anastomoses in Cirrhosis of the Liver Bullet, de 1'Academic do Med. T. xxiv, p. 943. Canst. Jahrb' Vol. 11, p. 36