171 NEKV0US SYSTEM. fits occur. In Lecture IV a table is given showing the much greater prevalence of paraplegia from various causes in men than in women, hi the ratio of 107 : 37. Myelitis, non-inflammatory softening, or reflex paralysis are in the named order the most frequent causative conditions. As to age, reflex paraplegia is most frequent in children, myelitis in adults, and aon-inflainmatory softening hi the aged. The author then goes seriatim through the various symptoms observed in paraplegia, and shows to what form of paralysis each is attached specially, and what is its cause. The lecture concludes with a review of the principal remedies, and the states to which they are appropriate. Reynolds.—On Diphtheritic Paralysis. Brit. Med. J., Aug. 18th. Reynolds says, " there is a certain general course through which the paralysis rims, from that but shghtly marked up to that which results hi death. It always begins in the soft palate, either by numbness, loss of power of one-half or of the whole em'tain; next amaurosis or stra- bismus, if the eyes are at all affected, always follows after paralysis of the palate, and before the extremities become involved. Deafness may follow amaurosis, then the lower limbs become affected, next the upper extremities, then the muscles of the alimentary canal and bladder, the respiratory muscles, and, in some very rare cases, the muscles of the heart." Sometimes there is only paralysis of sensation, or this pre- dominates. The prognosis is favorable,—9 deaths occurred among 77 cases. Of these, 2 were caused by food entering the larynx, 1 from convulsions, 1 from renal disease, 1 from starvation, 4 from nervous asthenia and syncope. Treatment is to be invigorating: sulphur baths, galvanism, frictions to the spine, and strychnine have all been found usefid. Leviseur.—Peculiar Disorder of the Faculty of Speaking and Writing. Pr. Ver. Ztg. N. P. ii, 3, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, P- 39- Leviseur records 3 cases in which the faculty of pronouncing and writing words correctly was temporarily lost. He regards it as a neurosis of motion, a " vertigo literalis," in which letters, syllables, and words are confused, and become perplexed, like objects in ordinary giddiness. Russell.—Opium, its Use and Abuse. Brit. Med. J., April 28, May 5. Russell illustrates the beneficial effects of opium, and adverts also to the cases where it fails to procure sleep, or is actually injurious. He specially mentions its sedative action upon the heart, which has some- 1 ink's, even when the dose was moderate, produced death. In delirium tremens, and in cases of great debility and cardiac degeneration, opium sometimes entirely fails to calm, and may prove injurious. In the earlier period of fever there may be considerable resistance to the soporific effect of opium; while in the later, even a small dose may produce dangerous narcotism. . Wade.—On the Pathology of Lead Colic. Brit. Med. J., May 19. Wade adopts and argues in favour of Briquet's view, viz., that the