OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 359 Bodduert gives the preference to the vectis over the forceps in high positions of the head. Beydler uses the vectis almost exclusively. Extraction of Placenta. hizi.—On the Available Means of Aiding the often very difficult Ex- traction of the Placenta in Abortion at the Third and Fourth Months. Gaz. Hop., Oct. 4th and nth, i860. In order to hasten the detachment of the placenta in such cases, the author recommends the dilatation of the cervix with the finger, and the use of ergot; hut the finger is to be introduced prior to the use of the ergot. Aids in Labour. Robt. Hardey.—On Special Position and the Obstetric Binder as Aids in the Treatment of Impeded Parturition. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, P- 19- . Hardey insists on the great efficacy, in cases of impeded or tardy par- turition, of the sedentary position, combined with the use of the obstetric binder. The patieut is placed sitting on and between two chairs, and is only removed to the bed when the head is on the perinseum. Before adopting this position the bend should be engaged in the pelvis, and the os half dilated. The practice advocated had been followed by the author for many years and with entire success. Braxdeis.—Posture in Presentation of the Funis. Bost. Journ., 62, 379. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 1st, i860, p. 220. Three cases are related to show the advantage of elevating the pelvis by placing the patient on her knees and elbows while reposition of the funis is performed ; the patient to be kept in this position until strong pains come on. Dornseif.—On the Value of the Knee-and-Elbow Position in the Practice of Midwifery. Inaug. Diss. Giessen, i860, pp. 71. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 305. Anesthesia in Midwifery. Prof. Faye (Christiania).—Death rapidly following after a nearly Normal Labour, and Employment of Chloroform. Norsk. Ma"-, for Laeger. Edinb. Med. Jour., Nov., i860, p. 474. Jea UCOURT.—On the Employment of Chloroform in Midwifery. Gaz. Hop., Oct. 30th, i860. Dr. Kidd.—On the Value of Anaesthetic Aid in Midwifery. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 340. Chloroform is peculiarly useful in tedious labours, where the patient requires an interval of rest to renew reflex action and remove the effect of exhaustion. In cases of version, especially where the waters have come away and there is great sensibility of the parts, in forceps cases, and in operative midwifery, the benefits of anaesthesia by chloroform are pointed out. In puerperal convulsions of apoplectic character, or con- nected with albuminuria, its use is secondary. In the hysteric form of