SPECIAL DISEASES. 871 Ovaries. John Clay.— Chapters on Diseases of the Ovaries. Translated by per- mission from Khvisch's Clinical Lectures on the Special Pathology and Treatment of the Diseases of Women ; with Notes, and an Appendix on the Operation of Ovariotomy. Svo, Lond., Churchill, i860, pp. 430. The first part of this work is a translation of the portion of Kiwisch's " Klinisclie Vortrage" relating to diseases of the ovaries, from the latest edition by Scanzoni. The translation contains notes by Kiwisch, Scanzoni, and Clay. The appendix on ovariotomy by Clay contains an account of all opera- tions of ovariotomy, of which accounts could be obtained up to February, 1S60. The particulars relating to the cases are all systematically and elaborately tabulated. The number of completed or attempted operations thus collected is 537. In 212 of these a favorable result followed the removal of one or both ovaries. In 183 cases the patients died after removal of one or both ovaries. In twenty-four cases partial excision was performed, with a result of ten recoveries and fourteen deaths. In thirteen cases the tumour was found not to be ovarian. In eighty-two cases the operation was commenced but not proceeded with, owing to the presence of adhesions. In all, thirty-six cases are collected where the operation was commenced on an erroneous diagnosis. Many other interesting statistical details are given. Simon Thomas. — On Simple Ovarian Cysts and their Treatment. Donders' Archiv., vol. ii, part 2. Canst., vol. iv, p. 427. Simon Thomas calls attention anew to an operation for the cure of simple ovarian cysts which has of late fallen into disuse, viz., the punc- ture of the cyst from the vagina, and the maintaining of the aperture thus made patent. Three cases are related in which this method of treat- ment was successfully employed. Disse.—An unusual case of Hydrops Ovarii. Mon. f. Geb., March and April, i860, p. 185. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 307. Dr. Battye.—A Case of Ovarian Tumour, weighing seventy-six and a half ounces, in a Girl aged twelve and a half years, terminating life suddenly by Asphyxia. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 280. Dr. Biustowe.—Cancer of Cystic Ovaries; Cancer of Stomach, Liver, Peritoneum, fyc. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 176. Otto Spiegelberg.—On the Anatomy and Pathology of Ovarian Cysts. Mon. f. Geb., Aug., Sept., 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 426. • Dr. Robert Lee.—On the nature of Ovarian Cysts which contain Teeth, Hair, and Fatty Matter. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliii, r> 03 (with plate). P* V6 Robert Lee, after considering historically the pathology of ovarian cysts containing teeth, hair, &c, relates four cases, in two of which the cyst was in a natural condition, while in the other two it was more or less disorganized by dropsy, cancer, &c. ~