UKl-OUT ON 1-KACTICAL MEDICINE. I6fi during- tho night. There was no fever nor splenic enlargement. The cause was believed to be the use as food of the herb " lathyrus sativug." Cootk.—Observations on a Case of perforating Tumours of the Dura Mater. Load. Med. Rev., Jnly, Aug. Cootc states that fibroplastic tumours of the dura mater perforate the skull in a wholly different manner from that observed hi cases of medullary cancer. The former cause absorption of the bone by con- tinued pressure alone; the margin of the perforation is smooth, and hardened by a deposit of new bone, and the dura mater from which the tumours grow hi some spots becomes absorbed. In the latter, the absorption of the bone is effected, not by pressure but by substitution of the cancerous elements for those of bone; the bone surrounding the perforation is not condensed, but softened, broken down, and some- times in a stato of ulceration and suppuration, and the ring of bone surrounding the aperture is not smooth, but rough and uneven through the presence of bony spicule, which lie in and around the protruding tumour. Hill.— Cases of Tubercular Meningitis, ivith Remarks. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 27th. Hill records three cases of tubercular meningitis occurring in phthisical patients. He notices the uncertainty of the premonitory symptoms, and remarks that the only deduction that can be made is, that continued headache with some febrile symptoms in a phthisical patient, when it can be traced to no other known cause, is strong presumptive evidence of impending tubercular meningitis. Lussana. On Brachial Neuralgia. (Prize Essay, Milan.) Schmidt's Jahrb., Bd. 108, p. 168. Lussana recognises ten principal anatomical sites of brachial neural- gia, viz., in the ulnar, internal cutaneous, median, radial, chcumflex, and musculo-cutaneous nerves, in the trunk common to the ulnar and internal cutaneous, and in the three fasciculi of the brachial plexus. He does not, however, think that muscular nerves can be the seat of neuralgia, and consequently admits only eight varieties of brachial neuralgia. Under the head of symptoms, Lussana describes minutely the terminal painful points, the superficial, and the intermediate painful track (via dolorosa). The superficial painful points are the giving off of a nerve from its trunk, where it perforates a muscle or turns round a cylindrical bone, and where it is sub-cutaneous. Of the latter he mentions an axillary, a median-brachial, a supra-cubital, an epitrochlear, a styloid, and a coronoid. In its direction the pain may be centripetal or centrifugal; in the latter case it is continuous, and without any elevation of tem- perature. The pain is, as a rule, increased by pressure, and, except in the case of the internal cutan. N., by motion. With regard to the tempe- rature of the affected parts, Lussana finds it objectively or subjective y increased in neuralgias of cutaneous and sensitive nerves; objectively or subjectively lowered in neuralgia} of nerves that are chiefly motor. More or less muscular affections arc present in all cases, except that of the internal cutan. N. The muscles may be contracted, convulsed, or even paralysed. Pyrexia is rare, nausea and gastric disorders are