KEt'OUT ON THE INSTITUTES (>!•' M EI>I( INE. that this was not a case of fatty softening of tlie heart, neither could it be one of simple putrefaction, ns the weather was cold, and the examina- tion made thirty-six hours after death. Sydney Ringer.—On the Alteration of the Pitch of Sound by Con- duction through different Media. Proc. Roy. Soc, Jan., p. 276. Sydney Ringer.—On the Alteration of Pitch of Cardiac Murmurs by Conduction through the various Media composing the Thoracic Organs and Walls. Ed. Med. Journ., Sept., p. 249. In the paper published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society,' Ringer endeavours to show that the pitch of sound is altered by conduc- tion, the nature of the alteration varying willi the conducting medium. The following is the summary of his conclusions: That porous substances, such as wood or bone, lower the pitch in pro- portion to their porosity. All other solids, such as iron and glass, raise the pitch. Fluids raise the pitch. Fluids in motion raise it more than fluids at rest. Solutions in water raise it more than pure water, and in proportion to the strength of the solution. Minute particles suspended in water raise it more than either pure water or solutions. Gases raise the pitch slightly. The heart's substance lowers the pitch. Cellular tissue raises it. All the above alter the pitch in proportion to the amount of the con- ducting medium listened through. Ringer believes that a murmur heard through the lung has its pitch raised in consequence of the presence of air. A full and retained inspi- ration therefore increases the sound. The following, he says, is the diagnostic application of the facts which he cites: When a murmur is very intense, it is audible over the entire heart-re- gion, often rendering it difficult to decide whether there is but one murmur audible at the other orifices merely by conduction, or whether two original murmurs exist. The point of greatest intensity will decide one; and, if percussion dulness excludes the possibility of fluid in the pericardium, and the pitch of the less intense murmur heard at the other orifices be higher than that of the most intense, this is indubitable proof of the existence of a second murmur. In cases where tumours simulate in their percussion dulness, fluid in the pericardium, should a murmur exist, the tumour being solid would probably lower the pitch; should it be, however, fluid, the pitch would be raised by conduction through it. Again, it is often difficult to decide whether a basic murmur be aortic or pulmonary, or both ; it being heard with equal intensity at both second cartilages. If aortic only, the pitch will be heightened at the second right cartilage, but lowered at the second left, and vice versd in the case of a pulmonary murmur; whilst, should both exist, the pitch will be heightened at both cartilages. Poiseuille.—On the Pressure of the Blood in the Arterial System. Compt. Rend., August, i860, p. 238. Some years ago, Poiseuille stated that if two hemodynamomcters of