7-Z Itlil'OltT OX THE 1XSTITUTJCS OK MKIJICINK. saw almost nothing with the left, eye (amaurosis). After taking ten grains of santonine daily for the space of a week, this man was able to read words written in large characters upon the wall. Guiipin adds the following remarks (' Compt. Rend.,' p. 794, i860) on the preceding communication :—Santonine becomes yellow when exposed to the light, as well as in the animal economy. The author administered the drug to upwards of seventy patients, and found that, (1) as a general rule, the urine becomes coloured, and the patients see objects yellow after the second dose. (2) In some patients the urine continues coloured even after the derangement of vision has passed away. (3) In those patients affected with atrophy of the arteries of the retina, as well as in those suf- fering from subacute choroiditis, with absorption of pigment, the yellow coloration of vision is not observed. (4) In certain of the latter caseB objects, on the contrary, appear whitish. (5) In almost all the cases of cured acute choroiditis, with the exudation more or less coloured, santonine improved the vision. (6) In these cases it generally caused headache. (7) In patients who have formerly suffered from iritis, simple or with choroiditis and exudation, santonine is usually bene- ficial ; the powers of vision increase, without, however, the exudation diminishing. (8) In some cases santonine causes slight inclination to vomit. (9) In certain diseases of the eye (not mentioned) santonine is hurtful. H. Aubeht.— On the After-images produced by the Electric Spark. Moleschott's Unters., vol. v, p. 279. Canst., vol. i, p. 86. The author investigated the ocular spectra which succeed the image of the electric spark. (1) These secondary or o/Ve/'-images (Nachbilder) vary as the spark is viewed in a light or in a dark room, and as its image falls in a direction more or less parallel to the optic axis. (2) In daylight the spark is of a sky-blue colour ; viewed an hour before sunset, it leaves a vivid, blueish-violet streak, narrower than the original image, becoming en-| circled with a yellow areola, and passing successively into pure violet, red, orange, yellow, white, and, finally, sap-green, till it and the halo vanish. (3) If the sight be fixed on black velvet, the after-image is first blue, like the spark, then changes to violet, red, black, and green, the yellow areola being larger than in the first case. (4) In a dark chamber the spark appears as a bright spot of a blueish- or yellowish-white, becoming sur- rounded with a reddish-green halo. (5) After its transit a blue nebula, en- vironed by one of a reddish-yellow hue, is seen, the latter extending rapidly inwards, whilst the central tract becomes clearer and more vivid. A red areola, changing to a reddish or greenish-yellow, is then produced. A black ring subsequently separates it from the central tract, which be- comes yellow and then white. (6) Side objects disappear during the greater part of the continuance of the after-image, showing that portions of the retina not impinged upon are sympathetically excited. (7) When the spark is seen through red glass, we have a positive complementary or bright- green after-image. (8) When the eyes are fixed on coloured objects, the after-images are positive ; with colourless objects they are negative. Alf. Guaefe.—Contribution to our Knowledge of the Influence which Excitement of Non-identical Spots of the Retina exercises upon the I Adjustment of the Visual Axes. Graefe's Arch. f. Ophth., vol. v,l p. 127. Canst., vol. i, p. 87. In a case where disease about thclimbus luteus abolished central vision I