RESrlRATORY SYSTEM. 209 Bullet. Gen. de Therap., June 30, 1859. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. i860. Durand-Fardel sanctions the use of mineral waters, especially the sulphurous, in the treatment of phthisis. They are, however, only to be employed when the disease is stationary. Monnerat.—Powder for Chronic Coryza. Bull. Gen. de Therap., Oct. 30, 1858. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. i860. Monnerat uses powdered subnitrate of bismuth with advantage in acute coryza as a local application. In chronic coryza, Dr. Sabrier adds Iodide of Sulphur. lie prescribes 10 or 12 pinches a day of the follow- ing formula:—Bismuth Subnitr. si., Pulv. Glycyrrhiz. 5ij., Sulph. Iodicl. gr. ivss. Sloane.—On the Treatment of Scalds of the Glottis. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 14th. Sloane records 6 cases of scalds of the glottis, on which he makes the following remarks:—It will be observed that the only one which ended fatally was that in which tracheotomy was performed, and the dyspnoea was never so ru-gent in this case as in Case II, which re- covered. According to Mr. Wright, of Nottingham, tracheotomy in scalds of the glottis almost invariably results in death, and the treat- ment by leeching, calomel, and antimony, is frequently successful. Adding to the record of 14 cases of this kind lately published in the Med. T. and Gaz., 2 others which have come under Dr. Sloane's notice, there is a total of 16 cases of scalds of the glottis in which trache- otomy was resorted to, and of these no fewer than 13 died. The calomel treatment is by 1 grain eveiy hour, with —grain of Ant. Pot. Tart. Mayne.—Case of Cirrhosis of One Lung. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., Feb. 1st, i860. Mayne relates a very interesting case of cirrhosis of the left lung consecutive to well-marked tubercular disease of the same. Death ensued from bronchitis about 6 years after he had appeared to be in a state of confirmed phthisis. At the autopsy the left lung was found excessively shrunken, dense, and tough; a large cavity was in its upper part, and throughout its texture there were here and there white, gritty, chalky masses. He appeared to have almost completely recovered from phthisis some months before his death. Bevan— On Scalds of the Larynx. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb i860. Dr. Bevan gives 4 cases of scalds of the larynx, in which death appeared to be imminent, but which terminated successfully without tracheotomy xinder the following treatment:—"An emetic, followed by a cathartic enema, with leeches to the upper margin of the sternum; the bleeding encouraged by warm poultices. The leeches to be repeated eveiy 3rd or 4th hour if the strength permits. In addition calomel is to be given in 2 grain doses eveiy half hour, or horn-, and mercurial frictions arc to be used." As soon as the mercury produced the green stools, 14