318 REPORT ON SURGERY. female) the stone was removed by dilatation. Five of the patients upon whom the median operation was performed were past fifty years of age; the youngest, which was the only fatal case, was eighteen months old. Simon.—Cystotomy for the Removal of a Piece of Bougie from the Bladder; Favorable Progress ; Apoplexy ; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., June 30th, p. 646. Wood, John.—Lithotomy ; Use of a New Form of Staff for Dilating the Prostatic Urethra. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 22d, p. 610. This staff (of which a figure is given) consists of two pnrts or blades, one of which slides in the other like the male blade of a lithotrite, and is also capable of rotation, by which the blades are laterally separated. The latter motion stretches the urethra from side to side, and allows the forefinger to pass between the separated blades into the bladder, after the tense urethra has been cut into. Mr. Wood uses a long, narrow knife, and makes a curved incision, which sweeps round the bulb. The urethra is to be opened in the median line. Ward, N.—On JUarton's Lithotomy Operation. Lancet, June 9th, p. <j6G. Ward expresses a favorable opinion of this operation ; its comparatively greater safety, simplicity, and facility of performance, appear to him to constitute its peculiar merits. He had formerly been accustomed to Dr Key's operation with the straight staff. Critchett.—Median Lithotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 7th, p. 11. Report of a case in which Critchett removed by the median operation two stones, coated with phosphates, from a boy, set. 3. The external wound was not more than £ of an inch long, and there was no arterial bleeding. Teale, T. P.—Median Lithotomy ; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., March 10th, p. 232. The patient was fifty-two years old. The stone, which was in the upper part of the bladder towards the pubes, was caught with difficulty. Death, from peritonitis, took place in the following night. KING, Dr.—Median Lithotomy ; Free Venous Haemorrhage ; Plugging of the Wound; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 4th, p. 116. A calculus, if inch long and {rths of an inch broad, weighing two drachms one scruple, was removed by median lithotomy from a boy, oat. 12, who had had symptoms of stone since he was three years old. Free venous bleeding took place during the operation, and recurred in the evening to a still greater extent. IIolt, Barnard.—On JUarton's Operation for Stone in the Bladder. Lancet, Sept. 18th. Holt warmly advocates this operation, and reports the successful case of a gentleman, set. 75, from whom he removed three calculi of con- siderable size by this proceeding. 3. Lithotrity. Thompson, 11.—On the Great Importance of Early Diagnosis and Treat- ment for Sto?ie in the Bladder. Lancet, Jan. 21st, p. 56. The ease and safety with which the destruction of a small calculus can