ItEPORT OX THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 78 of the lungs published by Hutchinson in 1846. Balfour gives the results of the measurements, by the spirometer, of the recruits, 1126" in number enlisted into the Grenadier Guards between October, 1848, and March' 1853, with the mortality and invaliding among them from the dates of their enlistment till the end of March, 1854. After certain corrections pointed out by the author as necessary to render a comparison accurate, the results of the measurements in the Guards arc almost identical with those made by Hutchinson, as will be seen by the following summary showing the average " vital capacity" of men of different heights : Height of Grenadier Guards. 6ft. 8in. 6ft. 9in. 6ft. lOin. 5ft. llin. 6ft. (■ Balfour ... Vital capacity < I Hutchinson 23I-S 23I-S- 239.8 240.5 245-6 245-5 25'-5 252.0 258.9 258.8 Balfour says that the identity of these results is very remarkable, and may fairly be accepted as evidence of their accuracy. He next examines the question whether a low vital capacity may be taken as an indication either of a tendency to pulmonary disease, or of a feeble constitution, rendering the individuals liable to a high rate of mortality. To test this, the men were divided into three classes, according to the extent of their vital capacity, and the mortality in each class traced. The results show a most remarkable coincidence in the mortality of the three classes, the: difference amounting only to 0.6 per 1000 in favour of men having a vital capacity above the average. But a different result was obtained in regard to the men discharged as invalids, the number who became non-effective being much greater amongst those having a vital capacity below the average than in the other two classes. The author next discusses the value of the spirometer in the selection of recruits, as indicating the men having a tendency to pulmonary disease, and points out the necessity, in such an investigation, of including the total loss arising from consumption, both by death and invaliding. The results showed that this loss is much greater among the men having a vital capacity equal to or above the average. Balfour concludes that a vital capacity below the average maybe considered rather as indicating a generally feeble organization, less capable of resisting the deteriorating influences to which a soldier is exposed, than as evidence that a definitive relation exists between the vitafl capacity and a tendency to pulmonary consumption. While pointing out some practical objections to the employment of the spirometer in testing recruits, the author admits that its indications, combined with a careful stethoscopic examination, would be of value to the inspecting officer. Lastly, he concurs with Hutchinson as to the practical value of the spiro- meter to medical referees of life assurance offices. McLaren.—On the Value of Exercise on the Expansion of the Chest. Meeting of Brit. Assoc.,'Oxford. Lancet,,7th July. McLaren states that, by systematised exercise in the gymnasium, two