GENITO-UltlNARY SYSTEM. 97 nature. The author has not entered into the chemical history, nor into the mode of determining the amounts of the urinary constituents, but merely enumerated the alterations they undergo under various circum- stances. The hook is divided into two great parts; in the first of which, the urine in health is considered; in the second, the urine of disease. Each part is preceded by an introduction, in which, in the one case, the normal constituents of healthy urine, and, in the other, the abnormal constituents of unhealthy urine, are enumerated. The present volume is intended only as the first of a series. In the second, Parkes proposes to consider the alterations in the excretions from the skin, the lungs, and the intestines; while the third will be devoted to the consideration of the nature of the tissue-changes which lead to alterations in the excretions. The work before us contains a summary of the various researches that have been made within the last few years in this important field of inquiry—the urine of man. In chapter i, the variations in the urine during health, from physio- logical conditions, are enumerated ; such, for example, as those arising from sex, age, race, food, exercise, climate, &c. In chapter 2, the variations in the urine caused by the use of medicinal agents, such as anaesthetics, medicated baths, mineral waters, vegetable and mineral acids, alkalies, and alkaloids. While chapter 3 is devoted to the consideration of the abnormal constituents and urinary sediments. The author says that, in determining the amount of the normal constitu- ents of the urine in sick persons, we must remember that we scarcely ever know beforehand what is the physiological amount proper to the indivi- dual, t. e. the amount he excreted daily in a state of health ; and yet, without such knowledge, how are we to tell whether he is passing a greater or less quantity of water, urea, uric acid, sulphuric acid, &c, than he did when in health? We cannot, of course, apply to the individual the average derived from the collective analyses in a number of persons, though this has been often done. For example, the mean excretion of urea in men between twenty and forty is 33 grammes (512 grains); but we should greatly err if, in investigating the urine of a particular patient, we con- cluded that, in health, he would pass 33 grammes of urea daily. A glauce at the table, which Parkes gives at page 7 of the Introduction, shows that he might pass either an average of 18 grammes or of 45 grammes daily, or any amount between these figures. How then can a conception of the patient's healthy excretion be formed? The author says, we must either continue our observations beyond the period of illness into that of complete convalescence and health (a plan always to be adopted, if possible), or we must form a provisional estimate of what amount the patient would pass in health. The formula for this estimate Parkes offers merely as an attempt at a solution. The ratio of excretion to body-weight is, on the whole, the most constant fact at present known, and forms the basis of the calculation. Empirical Formula for calculating the Urinary Excretion in a Sick Person, whose Normal Excretion is Unknown. 1. Ascertain the weight of the person in pounds avoirdupois. 2. Multiply the following figures by the weight; the result is the excretion in grains in twenty-four hours : 7