NERVOUS SYSTEM. 51 Two years previous to the onset of the paraplegia, this patient had shown symptoms of progressive atrophy of the spinal cord. When galvanism was applied to one of the sciatics of this woman, powerful contractions of the muscles supplied by the corresponding nerve in the opposite limb were obtained. Occasionally the muscles of the limb to which the galvanism was applied contracted, in which case, however, it was found that even here the contractions were not due to a direct, but to a reflex, nervous action. The most remarkable fact observed was that, after a time, the patient be°-an to have power over the muscles which contracted in consequence of the reflex stimulus. She so far, indeed, regained the partial use of her limbs that she was able to sit in a chair unsupported ; and, curiously enough, as the power of the will increased, the reflex action on the application of galvanism diminished. In No. 10, at p. 439, of the ' Journ. de la Phys.,' will be found a letter from Remalc, on the "Action of the Constant Galvanic Current," and at p. 440 some additional remarks by Chauveau on the same subject. Martin-Magron and Em. Fernet. —On the Influence which Polarization, in the action of Electricity, may exert on the Nervous System. Compt. Rend., p. 592, 19th March, i860. The above-named observers found: 1. That the effects of a galvanic current traversing a nerve during a certain period of time in the same direction, apparently become rapidly diminished in intensity. 2. That an electrical current made to pass through the same nerve in an opposite direction to the first current apparently gradually increases in intensity, especially at first. 3. The repeated passage of a current in an opposite direction appears to restore to the first current its power; but the passing of the electricity during a few minutes in the direction of the first current again causes a diminution in the intensity. From these results Magron and Fernet conclude—(1) that a current of electricity, even extremely feeble, is able to produce a resistance to the passage of a relatively stronger current, in traversing nerve-tissue; (2) that the feeble current induces a state of polarization in the tissue, which produces a current in an opposite direction to that proceeding from the battery. Hence the secondary current appears to diminish the action of the current from the battery on the galvanometer if the latter current be passed always in the same direction. While, on the other hand, the secondary current increases the intensity of that from the battery, when the direction of the latter is changed. It has frequently been observed that muscular contractions are always most violent at the moment the direction of the continued current through a nerve is changed, and it has been supposed that this arises from the nerve becoming fatigued, and consequently less impressionable to the current in one direction, while, on the other hand, it becomes more sensitive to the action of the current proceeding in the opposite direction. Martin- Ma gron and Fernet believe that these results are entirely due to the state of polarization above described.