0» REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. cases which had not come under their personal notice, but which they had been told of by trustworthy people, whose names they give ; others, again, report cases which they have themselves observed. White arsenic is well known in Styria by the name of " Hidrach," and Dr. Knappe, of Oberzehring, states that he saw a man, thirty years of age, in robust health, take, on the 22d February, i860, a piece of arsenious arid weighing four grains and a half, and on the 23d another piece weighing five grains and a half. The urine contained arsenic. On the 24th the man went away in his usual health. He Baid he was in the habit of taking a similar quantity three or four times each week. Dr. Holler, of Hartberg, states that he and other persons named in his report guarantee that they are together acquainted with forty persons who eat arsenic. Dr. Forcher, of Gr'atz, gives a list of eleven* people in his neighbourhood who indulge in the same substance. Roscoe concludes that the evidence brought forward decidedly proves that arsenic is widely distributed in Styria, and regularly eaten by many of the inhabitants. Dr. B. W. Richardson.—On the Physiological and Therapeutical Pro- perties of the Peroxide of Hydrogen. Lancet, Oct. 20th, p. 300. Richardson calls attention to tbe fact that blood freed from fibrin absorbs the oxygen from the peroxide, and if venous blood, becomes arterial, with a rise in tbe temperature ; while washed fibrin and cellular tissue in the fresh state evolve the oxygen. Albumen, urea, gelatin, fibrous membrane, and skin, produce no change. All kinds of sugar, when brought into contact with the peroxide, are decomposed, and evolve carbonic acid. Starch un- dergoes the same modification. All narcotics that are miscible in water pre- vent the peroxide from exerting its oxidizing power. The author further states that " a weak solution oxidizes blood; but this effect can be stopped by the action of alkaloids and of narcotics. The peroxide supports the life of fishes ; but the body of the animal causes rapid evolution of the gas. The solution injected into the left side of the heart of an animal restores the irritability, but appears to have au opposite effect on the right side. Injected into the arterial system immediately after death, it seems to re- store to the muscles the power of contracting on the application of an irritant. It suspends to a considerable extent post-mortem rigidity, and it reduces spasmodic action excited by such bodies as ammonia and hydrocyanic acid." J. Bernard.—On the Chemical Agents of Disease in the Living Body. Lecture VII, Med. Times and Gaz., Feb., p. 183. Bernard points out how animals, debilitated by want of proper nourish- ment, have the power of resisting the action of certain poisons better than animals in perfect health ; while, on the other hand, the healthy animals are less liable to the action of certain diseases. If, therefore, he says, an animal being given, it is our purpose to preserve it from the action of woorara, or similar poisons, we must lower its forces. If, on the contrary, we intend to preserve it from contagious diseases, we must increase them by nil possible means. When speaking of the mode of production of a physiological virus, and of a morbid poison, he says, that it is a singular fact that in so general a disease (hydrophobia), the virus, which alone is capable of transmitting the affection, should be exclusively localised within one single apparatus