ItKPOItT OP rnACTICAL MEDICINE. 192 dantly traversed by vessels. The wciglit of specimens of fibrine before and after drying- affords data for ascertaining- the amount of this sub- stance actually present. Some deposits contain as much as 30 per cent., some as little as 3. The former are of course the firmer and denser. The order of construction of a concretion is next traced, and it is shown how it commences first in some point favorable to the deposit of iibrine, as the auricula of the auricle, the sub-infundibular portion of the ventricle, and then enlarges by successive additions from the passing current of blood. Dr. Richardson next considers the question of the formation of concretions ante or />os£-mortem, and sums up his observations as follows :—" The proof of a post-mortem con- cretion is its position—on the ripper surface of a red coa^ulum. The proofs of an ante-mortem clot are (a) the fact of its filling a cavity; (b) the fact of its being grooved externally by a blood-current, or bored by a current through its centre ; (c) its being firmly adherent to the heart either by mechanical or organical tie; (d) its structure being laminated, or containing in its centre broken-up fibrine; (e) the fact of its being deeply indented by surrounding structures." Moreover a larger amount of fibrine is not uncommonly fouud in a cavity than the quantity of blood it could contain would possibly yield. And again large concretions have been removed from the hearts of animals while they were still acting. The demonstration, therefore, is complete, that fibrinous deposition may occur during life. In Section II, Dr. Richardson points out the conditions of disease in which deposition of fibrine occurs in the heart. One of these is present in cases of scurvy and purpura, a second in cases of great loss of watery fluid from the system, a third in cases where the blood-current has for a long time been very languid and sluggish, and a fourth in cases of hyperinosis, in wbich there is a marked increase of fibrine. This hyperinosis is most usually posterior to local manifestations of disease, but occasionally is anterior, and constitutes of itself a fatal malady. Of this, Dr. Richardson quotes some remarkable instances from ITuxham and Chisholm. In speaking of the symptoms of fibrinous concretions in the heart, Dr. Richardson remarks that, as a rule, they are laid down on the right side, and that consequently the circulation of blood through the lungs is more or less completely arrested. No proper supply of arterial blood can be sent from the left side of the heart, the body gradually becomes cold and of livid paleness, the mind wanders, the muscles twitch restlessly, while a peculiar dyspnoea continues to the last, even after the heart's pulsations have stopped. In this dyspnoea the respiratory acts are rapid and deep; the respiratoiy murmur is clear, the alas of the nose work while at the same time emphysema of the lungs, and in children dilatation of the chcstwall, is not unfrequent. The symptoms may come on with very varying degrees of rapidity. It sometimes happens that symptoms of very serious local inflammation are delusively relieved by fibrinous deposition taking place, but are replaced by the symptoms of concretion them- selves in all their dangerous significance. The relief to the local symptoms is produced by the fibrinous deposit obstructing the free flow of blood. The active local mischief and the general inflammatory fever arc thereby subdued. The signs of concretion may come with more or