469 DELIVERY, BIRTH; AND INFANTICIDE. Makklin.—On Life and Respiration in the New-born Child. Casper, vol. xvi, part i. Canst., vol. vii, p. 24. By the detection of foreign matters of various kinds, such as, in one case, black and white sand, in another the contents of a privy in the stomach and alimentary canal of two newly-horn children, it was concluded that as such suhstanccs must have been ingested by the child after separation from the body of the mother, and must have entered the stomach by the act of swallowing, blood had circulated and breathing must have taken place. ' Yezin.— On the question whether Incineration of the Body of a Newly- born Child, which was so complete that the remains of the bones only were left, was accomplished with an ordinary Fire in an ordinary Stove. Henke, vol. xxxix, part 1. Answer in the negative. Stadelmayer.—Accusation of Child-murder before the Jury of Lower Bavaria. Ib., vol. xxxix, part 2. Scuuemacher.—Proceedings against A. N—, accused of the crime of Child-murder, attempted Abortion, and the offence of Concealment 0 f Birth. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, Nos. 22, 29. Maschka.—Casper, loc. cit. Case fr Newly-born child, the body of which was found in a pond in a state of putrefaction, with a cord round its neck. Undecided opinion; probabilities in favour of still-birth. Born.—Drowning of a New-born Child in a Privy. Ib., vol. xvi, part 1. Brostus.—Doubtful mode of Death of a Newly-bom Child found in Ice. Deut. Zeit., vol. xiii, part 2. Niemann.—Medico-legal autopsies. Loc. cit. Part 10. Researches re- lating to the Vitality and mode of Death of New-born Children. 74. Extreme degree of putrefaction ; injuries of the skull. 75. Proof that respiration had taken place yielded by the lung-test, notwithstand- ing the destruction of several blood-vessels. 76. Fracture of the skull, produced, not by a fall on the ground, but by external violence. 77. Extreme degree of putrefaction ; mark of a cord; proof that the cord had been applied to the living childjunsatisfactory. 78. Effusion of blood in the head, with fissure of skull; question whether consequent on birth or external violeuce. 79. Death by suffocation of a child buried in the earth. 81. Sugillation of the head; probably death by external violence. 82. Extreme degree of putrefaction ; fissure of the skull. 83. Concealment of the body of a child. 84. Sugillations of the head, probably arising from external violence. 85. Sugillations of the head and softening of the brain. 86. Doubtful respiration. 87. Extreme degree of putrefaction ; collections of blood in the head, possibly arising from this cause. 88. Sugillations of the head in a child not completely born, not consequent on birth. M LSCHKA.—Indications of Apoplexy by Suffocation of a New-born Child, ivith simultaneous discharge of Blood from the forehead and nose ; Death by Violence, probably in consequence of Pressure exerted by the Mother. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, No. 48.