HEPOHT OX SU1K1ERY. 260 GiiNTHKR.—Study of the Moody Operations on the Human Body. Leipsic and Heidelberg. Part IV. The Operations on the Pelvis, Belly, and Chest. Canst., vol. v, p. 205. Webek, Otto.—Surgical Experiences and Investigations, with numerous Observations, from the Surgical Clinic and the Evangelical Hospital at Bonn. With 8 plates. Berlin, lleimer, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. v, p. 206. A commentary on the practice of Wutzer and Busch. In a section on death from the inhalation of chloroform, Weber remarks that apnoea, and the asphyxia attendant on it, are the more dangerous because the brain, being stupefied, cannot assist in restoring the functions of respiration and circulation. This is the whole secret of death from chloroform. He rejects the theory that chloroform kills, by directly paralysing the heart, or by causing the closure of the glottis, and finds the danger of anaesthesia in the facility with which fainting and suffocation occur, which, under the existing depression of the nervous system, may bring about death. Chloro- form ought to be exhibited with extreme caution to persons who are liable to faint, or whose respiration is embarrassed. He rejects special apparatus, and recommends the rhythmical injection of air through a wide silver tube, introduced into the larynx, alternately with methodical pressure on the belly. The Marshall Hall method may be tried at the same time. When fatal syncope threatened, Wutzer was accustomed to inject forcibly a stream of cold water into the nostril, and in this way powerfully to stimulate the trigeminal nerve. In a chapter on the pathology and treatment of tumours, he speaks disparagingly of the results of the medical treatment of heteroplastic for- mations, whilst in hyperplastic growths he regards iodide of potassium as a valuable remedy. ' He mentions the acetate of lead as a very useful application to the mucous membrane after removal of nasal polypi. Chloride of zinc he regards as a more powerful caustic than arsenious acid, and thinks the objection raised against caustic potash—that it leads to a bad suppuration—is unfounded. The application of potash is less painful than that of other caustics. In some remarks upon haemostatics, he mentions the Liquor Ferri Ses- quichloridi as undoubtedly the best styptic, but says that it slightly cauterizes the wound, and in this way retards the healing. He considers it unnecessary to tie superficial vessels when they are bleeding, as the temporal or facial, and thinks it better practice to pass a pin beneath them. He gives this as an old custom. WOUNDS. 1. Cicatrization. Demarquay and LECONTE.—The Cicatrization of Wounds under the Influence of Carbonic Acid. Ann. par Jamain et \R aim, p. 109. These experimenters found that oxygen sensibly retards the reparation of subcutaneous wounds, whilst carbouic acid promotes it in a very remarkable manner.