KKPOllT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. GS Dr. Ruschcnbergcr, U.S.N., who presented it to Prof. Hammond. The poison is semifluid, of a dirty-green colour, with a slightly yellowish tinge, and evolves a very decided odour of human faeces. It deposits, on standing, a'slight sediment, consisting of amorphous organic matter, with n few vegetable cells and other structures of similar character. When examined chemically, it is found to contnin 23 per cent, of an uncrystal- lizable substance, possessing an intensely bitter taste. With bichromate of potash and sulphuric acid it gives a blue colour, but not the strych- nine play of colours. On treating this bitter substance with distilled water, above a fourth part is dissolved, and the residue is, like strychnine, crystallizable, and with the bichromate of potash and sulphuric acid ex- hibits the same reaction. It also causes tetanus and death when admi- nistered to a frog even in very small quantity. The results of several experiments led Hammond to the conclusion, that the poison, although resembling strychnia in producing tetanic convulsions, yet differs from it in acting directly on the heart. In frogs its first effect is to arrest the action of this organ, and it is not till some minutes have elapsed that the tetanus supervenes. It is probable that the same is the case with mammals, but, owing to the rapidity with which the poison acts on warm-blooded ani- mals, it is difficult to arrive at any very definite conclusion on this point. It may, however, be concluded that this poison, like the upas antiar, carrowal, wao, and tanghin, acts primarily upon the heart, but, \inlike these agents, acts also upon the spinal cord, causing tetanic convulsions. The author remarks that, from some of thcexperiments he has performed, it would be easy to show the error into which Martin-Magron and Buisson have fallen regarding the action of woorara and strychnine, and then passes on to state that the poison referred to in this memoir allows the nerves in frogs to retain their irritability for about five hours, and the muscles for nearly an hour longer. " When taken into the stomach, the two principal actions of the poison are reversed in the order of occurrence. Tetanus first occurs, and it is not for some time afterwards that the heart stops beating." It is even possible to entirely prevent the paralysis of the heart by washing out the stomach a few minutes after the introduction of the poison. Introduced into the rectum, the effects ensue in the same sequence as when the poison is placed in the stomach, but with somewhat greater rapidity. It may, therefore, be concluded that the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal is a better " endosmometer" for the solution of strychnia than for that of the heart-paralysing agent. Placed upon the skin of frogs, the poison produces similar effects to those which follow its insertion under the skin, and with almost as much rapidity. The author concludes by saying that he thinks the poison is altogether differ- ent from any one species of poison hitherto described, and that, whilst in many respects it is similar in physiological effects to both the upas antiar and the upas tieute in their joint actions, there is much reason for hesi- tating to regard it as a compound of these substances. Dr. Alfred S. Taylok.—On the Transference of Poisons from the Blood to the Alimentary Canal. Guy's Hosp. Rep., vol. vi, p. 397. Physiologists have long recognised the fact that poisons received into the stomach find their way into the blood, and are from thence either