VASCULAR SYSTEM. 27 Prof Jvc. MoLT-scnoTl.—Micro-chemical Procedure for the Examination of Smooth Muscle. Wien. med. Wochenschr., 48, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 12. 1 j j Molescliott finds that smooth muscle is best prepared and preserved for microscopical purposes by leaving it for eight days in a solution composed of one part of strong acetic acid, one part of alcohol, and two parts of distilled water, and afterwards keeping it in a very feeble solution of acetic acid, namely, one part of acid to twenty-five of alcohol and fifty of water. If the object be not so much to show the nuclei as to separate the fibres, the author recommends a weak solution of potash to be used instead of the acid, for it appears that the cell-wall is least acted upon by the alkali, the nucleus by the acid. VASCULAR SYSTEM. Dr. Power.—Anatomy of the Arteries of the Human Body, Descriptive and Surgical; ivith the Anatomy of the Heart. Illustrated by B. W. Richardson, F.R.C.S.I. i2mo. pp. 374, i860. Dr. Suoojjet.—On the Circulation of the Blood in the Limbs and in the Head of Man. Pamphlet, pp. 55. Paris, i860. James Pettigrew.—On the Arrangement of the Muscular Fibres of the Ventncular Portion of the Heart of the Mammal. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 39, p. 433. ' Pettigrew believes the left ventricle to be the typical one; and by exercising a little care, he was able to unwind, as it were, the muscular substance, and so to separate its walls into several layers, each of which is characterised by a difference in direction. Seven layers, at least, can, he says, be shown by dissection ; but he thinks there are in reality nine, viz., four external, the fifth or central, and four internal, the internal being continuous with the external fibres at the apex, and the fibres constituting the several external layers being continuous with correspond- ing internal layers likewise at the base. As regards the direction of the fibres, the author remarks that there is a gradational sequence, the first layer being more vertical in direction than the second, the second than the third, the third than the fourth, and the fourth than the fifth ; the fibres constituting the latter layer, being- transverse, run at nearly right angles to those of the first layer. The order of things is reversed in the internal layers, viz., six, seven, eight, and nine gradually return to the vertical in an opposite direction and inverse order. Pettigrew compares the arrangement of the fibres i;i the layers to that of the double conical spiral, and points out how the continuity of the external and internal fibres at the apex can, in a similar manner, be explained. It seems, therefore, that the fibres do not form simple loops pointing towards the apex, as generally supposed, but twisted, continuous loops, pointing alike to apex and base. Pettigrew next remarks tbat the musculi papillares are formed from the external fibres which pass into the interior of the ventricle in two different bundles. When speaking of the right ventricle, he says that the easiest way to view it is in the light of a segment of the left one, which, as was before said, he looks upon as the " typical" ventricle. In corroboration of this opinion, the author refers to the shape of the right and left