181 rSVCHIATRIK. 12,838 patients (in America) the causes of whose insanity are stated, 22^ per cent, were connected with grief, disappointment, and other depressing emotions; 8*2 with excitements, anxieties, and depressions from religion, 6-9 with property, poverty, and business, and then- attendant anxieties, excitements, and losses; and 5-6 per cent, from excess of mental action. He points out at length, and with copious illustration, how all excessive labour of every land impairs and wastes the strength, and renders the system more prone to disorder. Who- ever allows in himself any excessive expenditure or misappropriation of mental force, or any indulgence in passion, caprice, oddity, impulse, or perversity, and takes but a single step from the path of discipline, propriety, or reason finds his downward progress progressively facili- tated, and the possibility of return more difficult. H. Tuke.—On General Paralysis. J. of Mental Sc., Jan., i860. In continuation of his paper on general paralysis Tuke remarks on the failure of articulation, which is one of the characteristic symptoms of the disease. He points out how to distinguish it from a similar affection recurring in lead poisoning, cerebral congestion, organic disease of the brain. Relative to the peculiar expression of the face, he says, " even in a very early stage there is a marked look of indifference, frequently accompanied with drooping of the upper, and infiltration of the lower eyelids." There is a heavy and sensuous expression about the mouth, a boyish appearance of face, the partially paralysed muscles no longer show the lines indicative of care, of sorrow, of ambition, or remorse. "At an early period after the accession of physical symptoms in paralytic insanity, a peculiar carriage of the head forms a veiy pro- minent feature. It is no longer unconsciously balanced upon the shoulders as in health; the patient seems to support it by a voluntary effort, and there is thus a rigidity of the neck induced, which is very characteristic of the disease." Calmeil.—The Relation of Alcoholism to Insanity. Gaz. des H6pit., 76, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 94. Calmeil states that out of 176 patients received into the hospital at Charenton in 1857, alchoholic excess was assigned as the principal cause of the insanity in 60. In 1858 there were 42 such cases out of 174. He distinguishes three phases of alcoholic poisoning. (1) An acute, in which the morbid influence is inseparable from the action of the cause, and therefore ceases along with it. Excitement and rage are the predominating mental affections. (2) A sub-acute which over- lasts the immediate action of the cause, and in which feelings of depression prevail. (3) A chronic which has already produced ana- tomical or functional disturbances in the central nervous system attended with the ordinary symptoms of the various forms of idiocy. Of the 102 cases above alluded to twelve suffered under a form of lypemania. In these hallucinations were the most frequent of the psychical symptoms, affecting the hearing twelve times, the sight eleven, the sense of feeling twice, that of taste once. They were always of a gloomy, melancholy kind. The physical symptoms consist in twitchings of the muscles of the face, tremblings of the hands and