208 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MF.DICLVK. Bartu.—Differential Diagnosis Of Pulmonary Phthisis and Dilatation of the Bronchi. I/Union Med. do la dironde, .July, 1H59. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 108. Birton.—On Latent Pleurisy. Brit. Med. J., Dec. 29th. Jacoui.—Indications and Contra-Indications of Kermes. Bullet, de Tln'rap. Ann. de Therap. i860, p. 142. Ebhner.—Tracheotomy in Croup, 4 cases. N. Araer. Med.-Chir. Rev., Sept. i860. Matthews.—Fumigation of the Lungs and Air Passages. Amcr. Med. T., Nov. 24th, i860. Flint.—Clin. Lecture onPulmon. Emphysema. Amer. Med. T., Dec 8th, and 29th. Meadows.—On the Admission of Air into Serous Cavities. Loud. Med. Rev., August; October. Voss.—A Historical and Critical Examination of the Operation of Tra- cheotomy in Croup, with a Report of 14 coses. N. Amer. Med.-C'li. Rev., May i860. Courty.—Treatment of Asthma by Hypodermic Injection. Gaz. Medic, Nov. 1859. Ediii. Med. J., Jan. i860. Courty records a case of asthma which was greatly benefited, indeed temporarily cured, by the injection of atropine in the vicinity of the left vagus nerve. This was done thrice, the quantity used being -Jj- grain. Much prior treatment had failed. Peacock.—On French Millstone Makers' Phthisis. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. i860. Peacock gives an account of disease of the lungs prevalent among1 the workmen engaged in preparing- French millstones. lie believes that it is produced by the gritty particles of silex which they inhale while at work. In two autopsies which he details the lungs were found markedly tuberculous with cavities, especially in the first. The symptoms are, in the main, those of chronic bronchitis, or phthisis. Of 23 men who had taken to the trade when they were not above the age of 20, the average age was 24-1 years; and the ages of the 5 oldest were 38, 29, 29, 28, and 28. In contrast with this the author places the report of workers in wire-weaving, &c, engaged in the same establishment. Of 13 who had joined the trade at or before 20 years of age, the mean age was 35*84 years, and 5 of them had attained the ages of 74, 43, 42, 40, and 40. Yet the sanitary circumstances of the latter were in most respects worse than those of the former. Dr. Peacock concludes with some suggestions for the prevention of the disease. He recommends that none who have not attained adult age should engage in the occupation; that the workmen should avoid cold, and all excess in stimulants; that the workshops should be room)-, and that inhalation of the dust should be avoided by respirators and other means. Dcrand-Fardel.—On the Treatment of Phthisis by Mineral Waters.