REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 118 specimens, there is a clear anastomosis between the cavities in the radii of adjacent stars. Virehow observed that these stellate bodies bear a striking resemblance to the lacunae and canidiculi of bone, and concluded that they were similarly arranged for what he called an " intermediate- juice-channel system." Our author fully details the various views winch have lately been advanced upon this point, and adds some important remarks of his own ; but as they extend over ten pages or more, and require the use of the figures to be properly understood, we must beg to refer our readers, who desire further information, to the original. Prof. C. O. Weber.—On the History of the Development of Pus. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xv, p. 465. That the corpuscles of connective tissue play an important, if not even the most important, part in the development of pii3, is a theory which is rapidly gaining ground among German physiologists. In the present communication Weber traces the formation of the pus-corpuscle in periosteum, in muscle, in nerve, &c. With regard to its origin in the first-named tissue, he states, that if a portion of periosteum be removed from the neighbourhood of a suppurating fracture, or a bone affected with caries, the connective-tissue corpuscles will he found very much enlarged, and their nuclei increasing in number by subdivision. The fine anastomosing branches proceeding from the cells also become enlarged aud filled with nuclei and fat-granules. Nearer to the seat of suppuration the same thing is observed in a more advanced stage ; the contents of the connective-tissue corpuscles being seen to be now filled with true pus-cells, and even their fine tubes in the same condition. In muscle the develop- ment of pus proceeds in precisely the same manner, the so-called muscle- corpuscles being the cradle out of which the pus-cells spring. In nerve there is nothing different observed, except that it is in the corpuscles of the neurilemma that the development of the pus-cells begins. As the suppuration proceeds onwards, the nerve-tubes themselves become affected, fat-granules appear in their interior, and they gradually de- generate. Bodeckkr.—A new Contribution to our Knowledge of Pits, and on the different Compositions of the Contents of tivo Ovarian Cysts. Henle u. Pfeuf. Zeits., vol. vii, pp. 145, 149. Canst., vol. ii, p. 84. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 147. The pus was obtained from an abscess, from an otherwise healthy man ; it had a pale-yellow colour, no smell, slightly alkaline reaction, and a sp. gr. of 1022. It contained leucin, but neither sugar nor urea, and on analysis yielded the following result: Water . . . .88.76 per cent. Solids .... 11-24 11 Organic matter . . . lo-n.i >■ Inorganic matter. . . t-i-5 » Albumen . • • 4-i?8 Mucus, Pus-corpuscles, Gliit'm, &c. . Cholestcarin and Neutral Fat . 1.09 Chloride of Sodium . . 0.59 Other Alkaline Salts . . 0.32 Earthy Phosphates and Iron 0.21