184 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKUICINK. Jsasse.—The Import of the state of the General Nutrition in judging of the Progress of Mental Disorders. Allg. Ztschra. f. Psych., xvi, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 341. Nasse states, that almost without exception, the weight of those who left the asylum recovered was greater than it had been on their admis- sion. The increase was generally rapid, especially in men, reaching its maximum in one to three months. After recovery is complete, no further increase of weight takes place, or there may be some loss. Males, on an average, increase in weight 15-8 per cent., females, 21-6 ; and the increase is more strongly marked in the less advanced than in the later period of life. The more marked the increase in weight is, the more decided and positive is the improvement in the mental state. In the patients who were dismissed improved only, it was also true that psychical improvement coincided with increase of weight; and the converse also holds good. Wood.—On the Progressive Paralysis of the Insane. Brit, and For. Med.- Ch. Eev., July, i860. Wood enumerates various objections which may be urged against the name " general paralysis," commonly given to the malady, and proposes to substitute progressive paralysis, as the disorder almost invariably progresses steadily from its insidious commencement to its fatal termination in general palsy. In describing the early symptoms of the disease, he insists strongly on the importance of its being recognised and treated early, and on the need there exists for pro- tecting the patient's family from the misery into which they may be plunged by his folly and delusions. With respect to forcible feeding, he enters into some detail, recommending a simple elastic bottle as the best apparatus. The diagnosis of progressive paralysis from dementia is to be made by the histoiy, by the remissions attended with temporary improvement, and by the possibility of rousing the attention by perse- vering efforts. As to pathology, Wood acknowledges that it is utterly obscure, all the various morbid alterations which are found in those who die of this disease being also met with in those who have never presented any of its symptoms. The treatment must be essentially supporting. Burnett.—On some of the Difficulties in the Diagnosis and Prognosis of Mental Diseases. Brit. Med. J., Aug. 4th. Burnett distinguishes between the delirium of acute arachnitis, and that of acute mania, and states that both may co-exist in the same patient. He directs attention to permanent rapidity of the pulse as a very unfavorable sign in cases of mania, while, if the pulse rises and falls together with the paroxysm, he believes there is seldom real danger. Remarking upon cases of sudden acute mania, he argues that somatic changes, predisposing to the event, must have been in progress for a long time before. He describes a class of cases in which there is great difficulty in detecting the existence of mental disease, though the person is unfit to have the control of property, owing to the rapid succession of imperfectly formed ideas.