195 CmCTTLATOHY SYSTEM. the arch of the aorta was most generally dilated and the coats thickened, atheromatous, or osseous. Below the seat of stricture the vessel generally quickly dilated. A communication was maintained between the upper and lower portion of the aorta by means of the following-anastomoses: (i) That of the posterior scapular branch of the transversalis colli, derived from the thyroid axis with the posterior branches of the aortic intercostal arteries. (2) That of the superior intercostal artery of the subclavian with the aortic intercostals. (3) Those of the branches of the internal mammary with the inter- costals, and the ascending epigastric. The heart in consequence of the backward pressure upon it, becomes dilated and hypertrophied. The valves and the endocardium were diseased in more than one fourth of the cases. The age of the patients varies from that of 22 days to 92 years, but the largest proportion of persons were middle-aged. Males are much more frequently affected than females, in the proportion of 737 per cent. Peacock divides the cases into 4 groups, with respect to their symptoms and history. 1st. Those in which the defect was only discovered or noticed after death. 2nd. Those in which the defect was detected accidentally, the patients being under treatment for some other disease. 3rd. Those in which, after a long period of good health and active exertion, symptoms of cardiac asthma and dropsy gradually appeared. 4th. Those in which the patients had been always delicate, with signs of feeble circulation. In 11 cases the patients died of diseases but little connected with the aortic defect. In 8 or 9 death occurred suddenly and was directly traceable to the condition of the aorta. In 16 out of 36 cases in which the cause of death is clearly stated, the patients sank with the ordinary symptoms of cardiac asthma and dropsy, complicated by pneumonia, pleurisy, &c. Peacock adopts the view of Regnaud, that the defect originates in the faulty development of the portions of the bronchial arches which form the continuation of the aorta from the origin of the left subclavian to beyond the insertion of the duct.-arterios. That the defect is one of faulty development is probable from its being frequently associated with other congenital defects. With respect to diagnosis, in cases presenting signs indicative of the special character of the defect, Peacock enumerates the following guides: 1st. The dilated condition of the anastomosing arteries that have been mentioned. 2nd. The presence of a harsh murmur following the impulse of the heart, heard in and around the precordial region. 'This is not constant. 3rd. The contrast between the feeble pulsation of the arteries of the lower and those of the upper parts of the body. 4th. The absence of any sign of pressure exercised by ancurismal or other tumours. Biiamwell.—Some RcmarJcs on a certain unusual form of Arterial Obstruction. Edin. Med. J., May, i860. Bramwel] records a well-marked case of embolism of both femoral arteries in succession, within one week. The symptoms were a sudden stroke of pain; cadaveric coldness of the foot, with diminished tem- perature up to the middle third of the thigh; the femoral artery pulsating strongly under Poupart's ligament; the pulse in the leg gone. Death occurred suddenly two days after the last attack.