SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 131 increased in calibre. The normal conditions returned in a few minutes; but ten or twenty seconds before death the brain gradually became pale, in consequence of the vessels partially emptying themselves. The pale condition did not attain its height until an hour or two after death. In animals destroyed by division of the carotid artery, the cerebral anaemia is not greater than in the above cases. This state of cerebral anaemia is equally observed to occur after death from compression of the chest, injection of water into the lungs, inhalation of chloroform, sulphuretted hydrogen, or carbonic acid gas, as well as from the injection of prussic or arsenious acid. On the other hand, in cases of poisoning by carbonic oxide or light carburetted hydrogen, there is marked cerebral hyperemia for a comparatively long period before death. Section of the right cervical sympathetic nerve was found to cause injection of the diploe and of the cerebrum on that side; and three hours afterwards, when the left nerve was divided, the injection of the corresponding cerebral hemisphere became equal to that of the right side. Even under these circumstances, however, strangulation induced distinct cerebral anaemia. E. "Bertultjs.—On the Determination of the Real or Positive Action of Heat, Cold, and Moisture upon the Organism, regard being had to the Vital Resistance. A Physiological Essay. Montpellier, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 20. Bernard. — On the Cause of Death in Animals subjected to a High Temperature. Gaz. Med., 1859, No. xxx. Canst., vol. i, p. 24. The cause of death in this case Bernard believes to be rigidity of the heart and muscles, inevitably supervening so soon as the animal's tempera- ture is artificially raised seven or nine degrees. Observations on rabbits, gradually destroyed by the effects of a highly heated atmosphere, confirm this opinion. Lieber.meister.—The Regulation of the Production of Warmth in Animals of a Constant Temperature. Deutsche Klinik, 1859, No. 40. Canst., vol. i, p. 24. The writer found that a shower-bath, with a fall of some fourteen feet, and a temperature of 63.50 to 69° (17.5° to 20.5° C.) produced a sensation of great cold, which he, however, bore seven minutes. A thermometer placed in the axilla did not indicate a diminished temperature; indeed, it commonly showed an increase. On the other hand, the thermometer fell, and even fell below the previous normal indication, when the feeling of a pleasant glow returned after the bath. Sea-bathing and air-currents of a temperature from 63.50 to 73.5° (17.50 to 23° C.) were similar in their effects. The animal warmth produced whilst lying in a bath of 68°to 70° (20 to 210 C.) vastly exceeds that observed when the water is as warm or warmer than the body. At 70° it is greater than at 850; at 850 greater than at ioo°. As the superficial warmth is withdrawn, the internal tissue- change is enhanced, and thereby a greater amount of heat produced. The 1 internal application of cold to the stomach has not this effect. , J. C. T. Pr.vvaz, jun. — On the Physiological Ejects and the Therapeutical Applications of Compressed Air. Paris and Lyons, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 22.