MANUALS; GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. 7 anatomical lesions of pleurisy and pericarditis. So, again, by exciting the solar plexus, we can bring on diarrhoea and dysentery, together with the anatomical lesions which habitually accompany them. It is, therefore, a fact, that the perverted state of the nervous system gives rise to a great variety of diseases, not only of a general, but also of a local, character; deprive a muscle or a bone of its nervous supply, and the consequence will be fatty degeneration in the one case, and rickets in the other; in fact, if the nerves which enter the nutritive foramina of a bone be tied, very soon the cells of the lamellar structure increase in size, the vessels become more numerous, and all the phenomena of rickets follow in rapid succession; these results can even be brought about on a portion of a bone, without interfering with the remainder. There are some diseases, however, that it has hitherto been found im- possible to produce through the agency of the nervous system ; these are eruptive fevers, smallpox, measles, scarlatina, &c. But this most pro- bably arises from there existing in them a special virus, which we have not yet been able to produce. One point, certainly, has been established, viz., that we can produce not only morbid symptoms in animals by arti- ficial means, but even actual diseases, with their complete chain of results. Lecture VIII is devoted to the consideration of diseases arising from the vitiated development of cells. In this lecture, Bernard endeavours to prove that physiology furnishes, in every possible condition of health and disease, a key to the interpretation of all vital phenomena. He first poiuts out the importance of cellular evolution, and shows how it occurs in the adult as well as in the embryo. For example, in certain animals particular organs exist, disappear, and are subsequently reproduced. Thus, as Hunter observed, the sparrow's testicle, after being reduced to the smallest possible bulk during the winter, promptly returns to its primi- tive size in spring. Also, that in the pigeon a peculiar organ, no vestige of which exists in the bird's previous state, is produced during the latter period of incubation. The mucous membrane of the gizzard (crop ?) becomes vascular, and secretes a new substance, which serves for the nourishment of tbe young birds when newly hatched. Some diseases result from a deficiency of the normal evolution at a given point. Thus, if, as happens in inflammation, the epithelium of the intestine disappears, and is not regenerated, no obstacle is opposed to serous exudation from the vessels, no protecting surface resists the intro- duction of various poisons, and, lastly, there no longer exists the regulating power of absorption. In this manner innumerable diseases may be traced back to the suspended activity of normal evolution, as their primary cause. Diseases, once accidentally induced, have sometimes a strong tendency to maintain themselves in the economy. Thus, when insufficient or un- wholesome food has reduced to a consumptive state an animal pre- viously enjoying good health, its offspring often inherits the morbid dis- position which, in the parent, was entirely accidental. Bernard, at another part, says that experience has taught us that patients often die without any anatomical change being detected in their organs, and dogs are often seen during the course of physiological ex- periments to arrive at the very last stage of emaciation with the appetite unimpaired. They sink from sheer exhaustion, while the lacteals are