GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. 113 F. PoucnET.— Genesis of the Proto-organisins found in Calcined Air, and in Putrescible Substances that have been heated to i$o°. Compt. Rend., p. 1014, 4th June, i860. Pouchet cites several experiments which he performed with the view of settling the question of spontaneous generation, and declares that he considers the results to he perfectly conclusive of the spontaneous origin of certain species of animal organisms. L. Pasteur.—On the Origin of Ferments. New Experiments on the so- called Spontaneous Generation. Compt. Rend., p. 849, 7th May, i860. Among others, Pasteur cites the following experiment. Upwards of three ounces of fresh urine were introduced into a bottle capable of holding about eight ounces ; it was then boiled for two or three minutes, and put aside to cool; but in such a way that, while cooling, the air, before entering the bottle, had to pass through a red-hot tube of platinum. AVhen the urine had become cold, the neck of the bottle was hermetically sealed, and the bottle, with contents, placed aside on a stove kept at a temperature of about 30° C. After a month or six weeks the urine was found perfectly unchanged in appearance. The bottle was now opened, and a little asbestos, containing the dust of the air, allowed to fall into it; the neck was again closed as before, and the bottle returned to the stove. In thirty-six hours the urine contained animalcules. On the following day crystals of triple phosphates made their appearance, the urine became ammoniacal, aud the urea disappeared. Here, Pasteur says, the ferment was an organized ferment, and, moreover, it came from the dust of the air. He relates several other experiments equally conclusive. See also the two following papers. L. Pasteur.—Neto Experiments relative to the so-called Spontaneous Generation. Compt. Rend., September, i860, p. 348. L. Pa steur.—Continuation of the Preceding Communication relative to the so-called Spontaneous Generation. Compt. Rend., November, i860, p. 675. J. G. Johnson (Long Island).—Supernumerary Fingers Hereditary for Five Generations. Amer. Med. Times, Oct. 20, i860, p. 275. The case examined by Mr. Johnson was the fourth child of its parents; all the other children have supernumerary fingers except the second. The mother of the children has one supernumerary finger on her right hand. The mother's mother has two supernumerary fingers, and the great grand- mother had also two supernumerary fingers. The grandmother's brother, as well as one of his nephews, has the same deformity. H. Momberger.—Researches on the Nipple, and on the Areolae round the Nipples. Thesis, Giessen, i860. R. E. Fitzgibbon.—Note of a Case in which a Man had Four Nipples. Dub. Quart., vol. xxix, p. 109. D. M'C, set. 24, a native of Lucca, in Jamaica, copper colour, enlisted in the British Zouaves in 1859, but was rejected. He has two supplementary nipples—one on each breast, about" an inch below the regular nipples ; there are also two pigmentary deposits, one on each breast, higher up. When a boy, the supplementary nipples were the 8