ItEPOltT ON THE INSTITUTES OE MKDICJNE. the excretory duct into the ultimate follicles of the gland, nnd afterwards rendering the preparations more transparent hy means of glycerine. The large excretory duct extends, he says, along the centre of the gland from head to tail, and is enclosed on all sides by large lobules. From it, at intervals, smaller ducts proceed, which enter the large lobules, and therein divide and subdivide into line branches, for the ultimate lobules. Some of the line branches arise at right angles, others at a more or less acute angle, and, after a very short course, they become connected with the ultimate gland-follicles of the lobule to which they belong. Each duct ns a general rule, preserves the same calibre from the point at which it commences, to that at which it either gives off a branch or terminates in an ultimate lobule* In some instances the ducts possess dilatations on their walls, either confined to one side or existing at corresponding points on both sides. The ducts do not always terminate in the &ame manner. In some instances they pass to the base of the lobule, and therwfrom it, as from a centre, the saccular dilatations of the ultimate follicles spring. In others, the duct runs for a short distance along the base of the lobule, giving origin in its course to the follicles, which are connected to its sides and extremity. In either case, the fine membrane forming the wall of the duct is continuous with the membrane constituting the wall of the follicles, so that the cavities of the follicles are continuous with that of the duct. The number of follicles present in an ultimate lobule varies considerably. There are also great differences in their shape and size. Some are spheroidal; others laterally elongated, so as to present a more or less oval form; others, again, are pyriform. When distended by injec- tion, they all present convex, smooth, and well-defined outlines. On account of the general shape of the follicles, and the mode in which they are grouped together in the lobule, they resemble in appearance a bunch of grapes, witb whicb they have frequently been compared. The secreting cells of the follicles form a closely packed layer, lining the inner surface of the membrane forming the wall of the follicle. They are spheroidal in shape, aud form a true glandular epithelium. Jul. Klob.—On Anomalies of the Pancreas. Wien. Ztschr. N. F. ii, 46, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 281. The irregularities of the pancreas described by Klob were observed in Rokitansky's 'Pathological Laboratory.' 1. In the case of a girl, aged twentv, who died of phthisis, a supernumerary pancreas was found attached to the great curvature of the stomach, lying between the mus- cular fibres and the serous covering. 2. In another case, the super- numerary organ was attached to the upper part of the jejunum. 3. In a third case, a small additional spleen was found imbedded in the end of the pancreas. BLOOD-GLANDS. Prof. H. His.—On the Anatomy of Shut Glands or Follicles. Ztschr. f. wiss. Zool., vol. x, p. 3.34, i860. Prof. Henle.—On t/te Anatomy of the Lenticular Follicles and the Lymphatic Glands. Henle u. Pf.'s Ztschr., vol. viii, p. 201, i860. Prof. EL His.—On the Thymus Gland. Ztschr. f. wiss. Zool., vol. x, p. 341, i860. Schmidt, vol. 108, pp. 18 and 20.