AlirtlTATION. 271 " Scarcely any cases," says Heyfelder, " can be produced in which patients have been saved, both of whose thighs have been amputated, coup sur coup, for gunshot injuries of both legs or both knee-joints.-" On this account, Boyer, Velpeau, and Vidal declare that the amputation of both hands or both feet is at the most permissible. If it has been shown that the prognosis of double amputations of the lower extremities for injuries, whether of the thigh or leg, is exceedingly unfavorable, Heyfelder thinks that the case assumes a different form when the double amputation is necessitated by an organic disease, instead of by an injury, and when an interval of five or six days elapses between the time of the first and the second operation. Thus, he twice performed suc- cessfully double amputation of both legs for frostbite, with an interval of five clays. He does not lay down definite rules for double amputations, when they should be performed, simultaneously or at intervals. But he objects to the proceeding instanced by Fergusson, in which, at the same moment, both limbs are removed by two surgeons. One operator would be in the way of the other, and the measure is only justifiable during and after great battles. Heyfelder now holds a similar opinion regarding all, in some measure, important operations. In squint and in cataract it is better not to operate at once on both eyes ; the same obtains in hydrocele, and the extirpation of several cystic tumours of the hairy scalp. In resection of the entire lower jaw, he advises that the removal of the second half should not be undertaken till the sublingual tissues on the first operated side have acquired new attachments. This is in order to prevent retraction of the tongue. In an article on the after-treatment of operation- wounds Heyfelder insists on the necessity of a spare diet, especially during the first five or six days, until the wound has either closed or is everywhere suppurating, when the inflammatory tension is replaced by relaxation, aud the spare diet may be changed for one more nourishing. He considers that the French and the southern races are naturally more moderate in their diet than the Germans, English, Dutch, and Russians, and that daily experience shows that erysipelas is often the consequence of an error in diet. This cause is also productive of pyaemia in patients who have been operated on at home, and who have not been exposed to hospital influences. The first dressing of a wound ought to be left on as long as possible, and this is only practicable when it is very simple and unproductive of irritation. Sutures are preferable to strips of plaster. Ligatures should be cut off short. The custom of leaving one end and fixing it in the lower angle of the wound is neither necessary nor useful, but altogether injurious and wholly unjustifiable. After putting in the stitches, the wound should only be covered with a fenestrated piece of linen, soaked in oil, and spread with a simple wax cerate to prevent its sticking to the wound. He deprecates stuffing or covering the wound with charpie. Symonds, F.—Observations on Certain Points connected with the Dress- ing of Stumps after Amputation. Med. Times and Gaz., Septembers, p. 230. Symonds prefers the wire to the thread suture, and the twisted to the knotted. He covers the wound with a single layer of wet lint, and dis- cards bandages, unless oedema or some other complication renders them