TUMOURS. 277 2. Non-malignant Tumours. Particulars of twenty-four cases are reported in Med. Times and Gaz., May 19, p. 497» i860. ' HYDATIDS.—Tabular Report of Thirty-three Cases of Hydatid Tumours. Med. Times and Gaz., April 7, p. 343. Ckitchett.—Large Tumour of the Thigh; Operation; Evacuation of Hydatids. Med. Times and Gaz., April 7, p. 343. Quain.—Case of Hydatid Cyst in the Pelvis; Puncture of the Rectum; Suppuration of the Sac ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., May 19, P- 495- C0CK.—Large Cystic Tumour in the Ischio-rectal Fossa. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 29, p. 637. This cyst, of twenty years' growth, formed a large tumour on the left side of the anus and buttock, and reached into the pelvis for several inches by the side of the rectum. It contained a large quantity of fetid, dirty, brown fluid, and did not communicate with the bowel. Paget.—Ganglion beneath the Annular Ligament; Free Incision; Re- covery. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 8, p. 558. The ganglion, which projected on either side of the annular ligament, and had been previously tapped aud injected with iodine, was laid freely open, after which the hand was bound to a flexible tin splint. Little suppuration took place, and the wound quickly granulated. Balassa.—On Extra-thyroideal Cystic Tumours in the Neck. Wien Med. Wochnschr., 46,47, 18^9. Schmidt, No. 8, p. 232, vol. 107. Mucous cysts in the thyro-hyoid region originate in one of the three mucous hursse in the neighbourhood of the hyoid bone, of which, accord- ing to Gurlt, the infra-hyoideal is most commonly affected. Three cases of this kind are reported, as well as one of congenital cystic hygroma in the axillary region of a six-months-old child. Cadge.—Cases of Myeloid Disease. Lancet, July 21, p. 59. Beschl.—On Skin-horns. Oesterr. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vol. iv, 1859. Schmidt, No. 4, p. 26, vol. 106. With Virchow, Heschl distinguishes three kinds of skin-horns—ist, the rarest have in their centre an elongated, dermal papilla, and are therefore colossal warts ; 2d, the commonest, especially on the hairy scalp, have their origin in ruptured cystic tumours; 3d, a circumscribed, excessive ichthyosis. lie relates a very remarkable case of the last kind, where a Jewish girl, set. ij, had sixteen horns; most of them were on her right leg, and they varied from the size of a common wart to two seconds in diameter and six seconds in length. Hilton.—Large Fibroblastic Tumour over the Spermatic Cord; Removal. Med. Times aud Gaz., Nov. 10, p. 453. The tumour, but loosely connected to the cord, was about the size of a large Spanish onion, and had existed as long as the patient, set. 26, could recollect.