11EP011T ON PItACTICAI. MEDICINE. with quiet and repose. In (2) he endeavours to procure sleep by 1G4 In Lays' case the spinal cord presented a well-marked atrophy of the anterior roots of five nerves, on a level with and above the brachial enlargement. The capillary vessels of the corresponding part of the cord were enormously developed and turgid with blood. The inter- vening grey matter had in some places completely disappeared, and was replaced by a large amount of amyloid bodies. Nerve cells could not be found in the anterior cornua of the grey matter, nor in the posterior. IIuGnES.—Cases illustrative of the influence of Belladonna. Brit. Med. J., Sept. 8th. Hughes regards belladonna as a stimulator of the sympathetic and a depressor of the cerebro-spinal nerves. He believes that we have in it an agent capable of producing through the nerves contraction of the capillaries of inflamed parts, and that as we come to have more experience of its effects we shall be able to control inflammation much better. For Physiological Action, sec Report on Institutes of Medicine, p. 60. Paget.—A case of Epilepsy, with some uncommon Symptoms, and a Commentary thereon. Brit. Med. J., Sept. 22nd. Paget's patient was a male, ast. 20, who had regular epileptic paroxysms, and besides frequent bursts of unmeaning laughter occurring day after day, and several times in the day, suddenly and without obvious cause. In connection with the epileptic seizures he had, on two occasions, severe tetanoid spasms, joined on the last with rotatory movements both when lying down and standing. At one time he was delirious and violent, and unconscious, since which Ins temper has become obstinate and self-willed. Latterly both laughing and regular fits have been preceded by an aiu-a proceeding upwards from the navel. Dunglison.—On ihe Rational Treatment of Delirium Tremens. Edin. Med. J., April i860. Dunglison in a letter to Dr. Laycock, states that he has treated delirium tremens for many years in a nearly similar manner to that recommended by Laycock, viz., hi an eclectic or expectant manner, without excitants, or opiates. Marston.—On Delirium Tremens. Edin. Med. J., Oct. i860. Marston distinguishes three separate forms of Delirium Tremens :— (1) Delirium e potu, or D. Ebrietatis, (2) D. Ebriosorum, (3) D. com- plicated with visceral disease. In (1) the disease follows a debauch within 24 or 48 hours; it is an acute alcoholic poisoning, with intervals of weeks or months of sobriety. In (2) the disease attacks men who have been in the habit of drinking for years, but not getting dead drunk. In (3) the symptoms vary according to the complication. He gives proof of the supervention of the disease after withdrawal of the habitual stimulus. In (1) form he advises only an emetic-purgative