ii8 REPORT on special XttEBJLPBUTXOfi. in support of ft further trial of curara. Tinct. Aconiii teems to have acted beneficially iu some cases. Varicocele.—Subcutaneous division of the dilated spermatic veins, after compressing them above und below the point of intended section with a pin and twisted thread, is advocated by H. Lee. EbicH&BM and Jobeut DB Lamballe encircle the veins with n silver wire, which is allowed to cut its way out. MIDWIFERY AND DISEASES OF WOMEN. [See also Report on Midwifery, p. 360.] ■ Uterine Hcemorrhage.—It. Beverley Cole employs a firm crystal of alum, rounded at the edges, and so large as to fill the vagina. This is to he introduced, carried to the os uteri, and there retained for a time vary- ing from thirty minutes to twenty-four hours. San Francisco Med. Press, Jan. Am. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, i860, p. 717. Amenorrhea and Dysmenorrhea.—Deloume states that Apiol is a powerful emmenagogue. The dose, twenty-five centigrammes twice a day. Gaz. Hop., Sept. 20, i860. Puerperal Eclampsia.—In a case related by Dcpau, the patient had heen delivered three hours, and was in a comatose state, when chloro- form was first used. Death appeared imminent from convulsions. After three inhalations improvement took place, and the following day she had quite recovered. Journ. de Med. de Toulouse, March, 1859. In a case of puerperal convulsions (primipara) Scanzoni employed subcutaneous injection of morphia. The convulsions became less violeut afterwards ; subsequently to the injection, the delivery was effected by the forceps. Med. Times and Gaz., April 14, i860. Hysterical Paroxysm.—Briquet, believing that the hysterical paroxysm, when left to itself, becomes a predisposer to future attacks, is always in the habit of arresting it by means of chloroform. A small quantity of the vapour is sufficient, there appearing to be a peculiar susceptibility to the action of the drug under these circumstances. Arch. Gen., xiii, 664. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 7U1, i860, p. 19. Treatment of Leucorrhwa in Young Girls by Clysters of Colocynth.— An infusion is prepared, one colocynth fruit being enough for three doses. First, a simple enema is given, followed immediately by the infusion. It produces a large number of stools, the latter ones being bloody. This treatment is said to have proved very successful. Claude (Verdun), Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 9 and 10. Puerperal Fever.—Hadden (New York) reports a case where favorable results followed the use of infusion of digitalis, occasionally alternated with Tinct. Verat. Virid., in a case of puerperal fever in a pri- mipara. Serkes (d'Alais) has found digitalis of great efiicacy in cases of puer- peral fever. In eight out of nine cases a cure followed its use. It