4)73 FOKliNslC PSYCHOLOGY. completely in the hands of physicians, and the desirableness of giving to the medical profession a position of greater influence than they now possess, both as regards legislation on matters concerning insanity and in the administration of criminal justice. Eulenmeyer.—Be Melancholia Transitoria. Corrcspdbltt. der d. Gesell. f. Psych., vol. v, Nos. 8—10. Acute melancholia may assume the form of successive, short, transitory attacks, recurring at shorter or longer intervals, or may come on in an isolated manner. A distracted temper of mind ofteu precedes the attack for some time, which, however, may only be distinguishable in the con- dition of cerebral excitement consequent upon emotion or excess in spirituous liquors. During this period the patient expresses appre- hensions either on his own account or on that of others, and even com- mits slight excesses, although he is in other things for the most part in an entirely normal condition. The attack may, however, come on with- out any warning; consciousness may be entire, so that the patient subsequently remembers all its details, or it maybe annulled and memory wanting. Its fundamental character is that of mental anguish and despair, which is communicated to the distressing delusions under which the patient labours. Under their influence he imagines himself in danger, and attempts to defend himself, to seize and injure his enemies, or to make attempts against his own property or person. Cases of neglected or unrecognised Brain Bisease and Nascent Lunacy. Psych. Quarterly Abstr. in Journ. of Psych. Med., vol. xiii, p. Ixiii. This paper is founded on the cases of Whitworth, a lunatic, not before known to be so, who murdered his wife and six children in the Isle of Wight, in June, i860, and on those of Kirkwood, Hinchcliffe, and Hopley. T. Kirkwood, set. 30, a soldier, was indicted for the wilful murder of E. A. Parker. The prisoner went to pass his furlough with his sister. While there he made acquaintance with the victim, a young widow residing in the neighbourhood. Shortly afterwards, in the course of a farewell embrace, he cut her throat with a razor. She died within a few hours after the injury, making a dying declaration that she knew of 110 motive for the act. The prisoner was habitually sober. Two of his com- rades swore that he was eccentric and moody, and was in the habit of getting up at night. Baron Wilde directed the jury that mere eccen- tricity was not sufficient to excuse a man from the crime of murder; that it might well be that such a man should understand the distinction between right and wrong ; but that they must acquit if they thought that his mind was so unsound that he did not know the character and quality of the acts he was committing. Verdict of acquittal, on the ground o'f insanity. Mr. G. H. II—, set. 33, a gentleman in good position, was married on August 3d, 1859, an(1 immediately after went to Clifton with his wife. At the close of the day, after telling his wife that they could not be happy together, he suddenly left her and went to lodge elsewhere, and during th third night committed suicide by throwing himself out of a window ° He had previously been nervous, but perfectly sane, and performed the duties of coroner for Staffordshire with credit.