280 EBPOUT on suiigery. Poland.—Fnchondroma of the Fibula and Tibia. Lnncel, July 28, p. 92. II.—Fractures and Luxations. 1. Manuals, Treatises, Lectures, and Reports. Ono Webeii.—Surgical Experiences and Investigations. Berlin, 1859. Canst., p. 160, vol. iv. The second part of this work contains some practical remarks on frac- tures, together with an analysis of 7,3.3 cases. In Weber's practice the plaster-of-Paris bandage has, since 1853, displaced almost all other modes of treatment. Pitua.— On the Treatment of Fractures. Wiener Spitalszeitung, 2 U. .31 literar. Beilage zum arztl. Intelligenzblatt, 1859. Canst., p. 16 •, vol. iv. Rejecting cold-water dressings as useless, or even injurious, in fractures, Pitha, as a rule, at once applies a permanent retentive apparatus. He generally employs Laugier's pasted-paper bandage (splint), which dries after a few lioui-s. Wagner, A.— On the Treatment of Fractures which have united with Deformity by Forcible Bending. Konigsberg, Medicin Jahrb., vol. i part .3, 1859. Hein, It.— On the Regeneration of Broken and Resected Bones. With three plates. Virchow's Archiv f. Patholog. Anat. u. Physiol., &c, vol. xv, parts 1 and 2. Canst., p. 163, vol. iv. Forty-eight resections and twenty fractures, experimentally made in animals, constitute the basis of this paper. PtABL, Dr. J.— On the Treatment of Fractures. Wien Ztschr., N. F. ii, 20, 1859. Schmidt, No. 4, p. 74, vol. 106. Gurlt.—Manual on Fractures of Bones. Frankfurt, i860. Meidinger, Sohn u. Co. This is a large and comprehensive work, to be completed in four parts, each consisting of from fifteen to eighteen sheets. Gosselin.— On Irredvcibility and Consecutive Deformity in Fractures of Long Bones. Gaz. Hebdom., v, 9 and 11, 1859. Schmidt, No. 10, p. 56, vol. 108. Even where there is no displacement, Gosselin says that deformity may, nevertheless, happen from an hypertrophy of the broken bone, which is sometimes the cause of chronic pain. Muscular atrophy is another second cause of consecutive deformity ; the muscles of the lower extremity are more liable to it than those of the upper, and the wasting lasts a long time, or never wholly disappears. He attributes it, in the first instance, mainly to the immobility in which the limb is kept during the consolida- tion of the broken bones", and explains its continuance by the supposition that the blood-current, which at first flows more strongly to the broken bone for its repair than to the musrles, remains subsequently diverted. The irreducibility of various forms of displacement is lastly treated ot.