319 GENITOURINARY ORGANS. generally be effected with the lithe-trite is contrasted with the gravity that attnches" to a stone of considerable size in adults. In children also an early diagnosis is most desirable. Where the stone has the size of an apple-pip, Thompson uses a lithotrite, the diameter of which is between a No. 5 and No. 6 catheter; where the stone is larger than a pea, he prefers lithotomy, on account of the difficulty which attends the expulsion of any but small fragments. Crichton.—On the Prevention of the Formation of Stone in the Bladder. Lancet, Sept. 15th, p. 260. Coulson.— Observations on Lithotrity. Lancet, Jan. 14th, p. 29. The author assumes the superiority of lithotrity over lithotomy in all cases to which the former is applicable, and says that where the stone is small and the genito-urinary organs are sound, a speedy cure may be con- fidently expected from it; but where the stone is hard and large, and the urinary organs are much diseased, it is unsuitable. He prefers a lithotrite to a sound where there is difficulty in detecting the stone, and where the prostate is enlarged considers a longer lithotrite than that usually employed to be indispensable. Paget.—Stone in the Bladder; Lithotrity; Symptoms of Rupture of Re7ial Abscess; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., March 31st, p. 315. ' W. P—, set. 42, had had symptoms of stone in the bladder for eis<ht months. The urine contained much pus and mucus, but the bladder was not irritable. Lithotrity was done four or five times, and much debris of the stone was voided. The urine then became fetid, and the bladder very irritable ; the belly tense and painful; the patient feverish and restless, and sank from exhaustion. The left kidney consisted of several cavities containing pus; in one of them there was an irregular oxalate-of-lime calculus. The right kidney was enlarged and beginning to suppurate. There were six or seven pieces of the calculus in the bladder. Sum—Calculus in the Bladder; Lithotrity ; the Stone Crushed in Five Sittinys, without Chloroform; Good Recovery. Lancet, Nov. 10th P- 459- This was a lithic-acid calculus, the size of a walnut. TnoMPSON, II. — Old Disease of the Bladder ; no Urine passed for Fears except by the Catheter; Calculus; Lithotrity Successful. Lancet Nov. 10th, p. 460. ' Owing to complete paralysis of the bladder, there was total inability to expel the fragments, which were all removed by washing out the viscus with tepid water. Thompson, 11.—Small Calculus in the Bladder of a Boy ; Lithotrity Successful at a Sinyle Sitting. Ib. Birkktt. Calculus in the Bladder for Two Tears; Lithotrity several times ; Successful Result. Ib. The stone was a large uric-acid one, and was crushed four times. Uhe.—Calculus in the Bladder treated by Lithyolysis, or Solution of the Stone by Injections of the Carbonate of Lithia, conjoined with Lithotrity. Lancet, Aug. 2 ^th, p. 185.