REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 894 asthma," here subjects three enses, reported ns cases of thymic asthma by Schottin (see ' Year Book' for 18^9, p. 400), to a critical analysis. In reference to the first case, Friedleben denies tbnt the thymus was enlarged, and admitting enlargement to have been present, he denies the possibility of its producing pressure on the neighbouring organs. Further, supposing such pressure possible, a "mechanical" irritation of the recurrent nerve could not bo thought of. The "laryngismus" which Schottin describes as having been present in his first case did not possess, Friedleben observes, the chief phenomenon of laryngismus, viz., "apneea." In the second case, recovery took place; therefore no data were obtainable as to the actual condition of parts ; and in the third case there was not the slightest proof of the presence of any abnormal condition of the thymus. Ploss remarks (Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 324), on the above criticism, that the observations therein made would also apply, but with still greater force, to the cases reported as cases of thymic asthma by Clar. FitiEDLEBEN.-^-iVbtes on the ' Observations concerning Anomalies of the Thymus,' by Prof. Clar, of Gratz. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 9 and 10, In the interests of physiology and practice, Friedleben expresses his opinion, opposed to that of Clar, that neither in its normal nor in its hyper- trophied condition can the thymus give rise to laryngismus ; there is no such a thing as thymic asthma. He criticises the deductions drawn by Clar from cases related by the latter, and points out that conditions described by Clar as anomalies are really not so. Stiebel.—On Laryngeal Spasm. Lectures delivered at the Christ's Hospital for Children, Frankfort-on-the-Maine. Journ. f. Kind., July and Aug., 1859, 6. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 201. Jacobi (New York).—Lecture on Laryngismus Stridulus. New York Journ. Med., Jan., i860, p. 74. The author follows Friedleben in believing that hypertrophy of the thymus has no influence in producing the disease, and hence that the name " thymic asthma" is incorrect. He is of opinion that the symptoms of the first stage of laryngismus cannot be explained except by a func- tional trouble, by paralysis, perhaps of the medulla oblongata alone, perhaps of the nervous centres together. Disturbances of the vagus and sympathetic nerves, such as may be produced by troubles of the alimentary canal, superabundance of food, presence of a large number of ascarides, obstinate constipation produced by vicious nutrition and consecutive torpor of the muscular layer of the intestinal canal, may give rise to laryngismus. Dentition is not of itself so productive of the disease as usually supposed. In a few cases congenital hypertrophy of the thyroid gland has appeared to produce the disease. Hood's theory of the dependence of laryngismus stridulus on hypertrophy of the liver he dismisses as utterly untenable. As regards treatment during the attack, the only indication is " the thorough irritation of the respiratory muscles." The treatment of the general disposition and cause of the affection is more important. The general health is to be attended to, and every source of irritation removed.