313 GENITO-tRLNARY ORGANS. ture, with retention or difficult micturition, where the perinoeum is thick- ened, and where there is a localized urinary abscess, inculcates the practice of simply cutting into the urethra behind the obstructed part, so as to provide an escape for the urine. He deprecates the immediate introduc- tion of a catheter into the bladder, and much more fixing one permanently in this organ, as its presence gives rise to irritation. He trusts much to "Nature's modelling power," and as the case advances towards cure, occa- sionally passes a bougie to assist in enlarging the calibre of the canal. Bryant.—Retention of Urine, with Impassable Stricture; Operation; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 8th, p. 559. Stanley.—Extravasation of Uritie within the Pelvis. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 1st, p. ail. The patient had long had difficulty in micturition ; his penis was hypospadic, and the external orifice of the urethra was about the size of a pin's head. He was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital with a distended bladder, tender perinseum, and red blush on the lower part of the belly. There was prominence, with fluctuation, in the left iliac region. Stanley diagnosed extravasation of urine into the cellular tissue of the anterior abdominal walls and ischio-rectal fossa. He made a deep incision on a staff, as in the lateral operation for stone, and gave vent to about a pint of ammoniacal urine, but the man died. Wood, Jno.— Tivo Cases of Stricture of the Urethra Successfdly Treated by the Urethi olome Dilator. Lancet, July 21, p. 58. This instrument, of which a figure is given, consists—(1) ofalongsteel staff, of the size of a No. 2 catheter, grooved along its convexity except for about two inches from its point, where it is curved. (2) Of a German silver canula, of the size of a No. 12, conical at its point; at the under surface there is a slit, through which a lancet-shaped blade can be projected. In using this instrument, the small steel staff is first passed through the stricture, and then the canula dilator is slid upon it till its conical extremity is engaged in the stricture, which is cut by projecting the con- cealed blade. Siiillitoe, Buxton.—On a Neio Form of Catheter for Dilating Stric- tures. Med. Times and Gaz., July 7, p. 5. This catheter has " the form of a short cone, commencing about one inch and a quarter from the end." Marshall, John.—On a New Urethrotome for the Treatment of Obsti- nate Stricture of the Urethra. Lancet, April 14, p. 370. This is a solid steel bougie, the stem of the size No. 10; the curved end for three inches has the size No. 2 ; the intermediate portion is one and a half inch long, and wedge-shaped. It is flattened on its upper and lower surfaces in such a manner that the sides form thin wings, with blunt cutting edges. The thin, curved end of the bougie being passed through the stricture into the bladder, the penis is drawn forward upon the instrument, which glides through the stricture with a verv slight force. ' b