NERVOUS SYSTEM. 87 and observe during the transition that the corpuscles regain, for a longer or shorter period (dependent on the strength of the reagents), their normal figure and adhesive properties. The author previously described (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' nth June, 1859) the emission of moving tails or filaments, or molecular matter from red corpuscles, when under the influence of sherry wine. He now adds, that he finds that an acid reaction in the vinous fluid is an essential ingredient towards the production of this phenomenon. A. Wurlitzer.—On the Temperature of Arterial and Venous Blood ; with some Experiments. Greifswald, 8vo, 1858. Canst., vol. i, p. 23, i860. Wurlitzer conveyed a slender thermometer as deeply as possible down the carotid artery and jugular vein of a dog ; the thermometer reached, in the first case, nearly to the aortic valves, and in the latter to the vena cava. The oft-repeated experiments vary so considerably that any general conclusion must be uncertain. The author, however, assumes, from his most reliableobservations, that venous iswarmer than arterial blood byo.020, to 0.050, C. The researches were made under Budge's superintendence. Prof. Hyrtl.—Preliminary Communications respecting Non-Vascular Hearts. Sitzungsberichte der Wiener Akademie, vol. xxxiii, p. 572. Canst., vol. i, p. 35. This anatomist calls attention to the circumstance that the heart of the Urodela, Gymmophiona, and Batrachia, is completely destitute of vessels. The heart of the Saurians, Chelonians, and Ophidians, has but a very thin cortical layer supplied with vessels, whilst the deeper strata possess none. The cavernous structure of these hearts, by permitting the blood to penetrate deeply into the muscular substance, renders a special capillary system unnecessary. The heart of most osseous fishes resembles that of the scaly amphibia, whereas in the heart of the Ganoids and Hexanchus griseus all the layers are vascular. The heart of fishes being venous, venous blood must possess constituents capable of nourishing its muscular substance. NERVOUS SYSTEM. A. T. H. Waters.—Observations on the Physiology and Pathology 0/the Nervous System, pp. 37. The Retrospective Address delivered at the Meeting of the British Medical Association at Liverpool. Brown-S£quard.—Experimental Researches on the Medulla Oblongata. Journ. de la Phys., No. 9, January, i860, p. 151. Brown-Sequard.— On the Independence of the Vital Properties of the Motor Nerves. Journ. de la Phys., No. 9, January, i860, p. 160. Dr. Levison.—On some Phenomena of the Nervous Life of Animalcules. Communicated to the Harveian Society. Lancet, 3d March, p. 221. Richard Hughes.—Ore the Generation of Nerve-force. Brit. Med. Journ., 16th June, p. 456. Dr. John Ashhurst (Philadelphia).—On Nervous Action. Amer. Med. Journ., July, i860, p. 102. B. STILLING.—New Inquiries into the Structure of the Spinal Cord. 5th part, Cassel, 1859, 4to. (Description of the methods; terminal filaments j scheme of the structure of the spinal cord ; historical and critical. This is the last part of Sailing's great work.)