NERVOUS SYSTEM. 165 opium or chloroform, and gives stimulants and support, premising, however, free purgation to the opium. pox<—Delirium Tremens. Brit. Med. J., Nov. 24th. Pox considers that alcohol is not in itself, directly, the exciting cause of the delirium, hut the altered condition of the blood which it produces. The indications of treatment are to eliminate the poison, to nourish the brain, and subdue congestion. He disapproves of the treatment by opium and stimulants, and recommends food and iron. Mater.—The import of Pain in the Back in Diseases of the Spinal Cord and surrounding parts. Archiv. d. Heilk. i, 4, i860. Schmidt's Jahrh., Vol. 108, p. 31. Mayer distinguishes pain from tactile sensations, locates the conduc- tion of the former in the grey substance of the cord, of the latter in the posterior columns, and enumerates the four following kinds of pain :— (1) inflammatory; (2) irradiated; (3) neuralgic; (4) excentric. Pres- sure or moving are always sufficient to determine the existence of pain in the back, but not its special seat. Congestion of the spinal cord and its membrane produce severe dorsal pains, but inflammations, even when acute, do not necessarily cause pain. In tabes dorsalis there is often at the commencement severe pain. In apoplexy of the cord pain opposite the seat of the haemorrhage is one of the most important symptoms, and is felt spontaneously and on pressure. Tubercular deposit in the cord occasions pain, as well as tumours proceeding from the membranes. Natanson. The Physiological Diagnosis of Muscular Spasm. Deutsche Klinik, 25, i860. Natanson states as follows the distinction of the two kinds of spasms. The direct spasms are always tonic, enduring, and painful, attended with extreme tension of the muscles. The induced are always clonic of short duration, painless, and attended with an ordinary amount of tension. In the former, the stimulus is propagated along one nerve to a definite group of muscles ; in the other, the irritation is diffused more e xtensively to a set of groups of muscles which combine in some phy- siological act. Trousseau.—On Intermitting Tetanic Cramps. Gaz. des H8pit a.a i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 34. Trousseau states the predisposing causes of the contractions to be nursing, chronic diarrhoea, and chills. Then- nature he deems rheumatic. They may affect one extremity, or all the voluntary muscles. Fever is present in severe cases. He recommends bleeding, quinine, and nar- cotics. Esvnro.—Notice of a form of Paralysis of the Loiuer Extremities. Indian Annals, No. xii, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Oct. i860 In a very swampy district on the right bank of the Jumna numerous cases of lameness occurred. The patients averred they had all become paralytic during the rains, in most cases suddenly so, and in many