rSVCIIIATItlK. 179 Devergie, Haixer, Wachsmuth.—On Psycliiatrik in its Legal Relations. Bull, de l'Acad. xxiv, March; Ann. d'Hyg. 2 Scr. xi, April, 1859. Wien. Ztschr. N. F. ii, 35, 36, 1859. Henke's Ztschr. xl, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 242. Hysteria in connection with Religious Revivals. J. of Psycholog. Medicine, Jan., i860. The writer defines hysteria as a morbid condition produced by some emotion which is denied outlet through its natural channels of activity. The force thus engendered accumulates till it overcomes all resistance, active or passive, and culminates in the production of a paroxysm, or hysteric fit. In the case of an emotion suddenly aroused and rapidly culminating, the muscular movements are usually succeeded before long by active secretion, either renal or lachrymal, and the paroxysm is brought to a speedy close. In cases of an opposite kind, when the paroxysm follows intense or protracted contemplation the same degree of relief is not afforded, and the physical phenomena, when they have moderated an excessive or unbearable degree of tension, are commonly followed by some form of somnambulism. Those which have most bearing on our^present purpose are trance and ecstasy. The former is characterised by torpor as far as regards all impressions conveyed through the organs of sense; while, at the same time, the sensorium is cognisant of a train of ideas, or dream, suggested by the active emotion, and coincident with the habitual course of contempla- tion concerning it. In ecstasy these conditions are slightly modified, so that the sensorium is percipient of impressions from without, if they harmonise with, or are even associated with the dominant feeling. There is also some degree of co-ordinate reaction upon the muscular system ; so that the course of the dream is indicated, more or less, by appropriate speech and gesture; and the influence exerted upon it by suggestion can be readily observed and demonstrated. The immediate termination of these states, convulsive or somnambulistic is necessarily in a period of weakness, and exhaustion commensurate with the nervous force put forth; and to be recovered from (if at all) only by the gradual operation of circumstances favorable to strength of body and repose of mind. Their ultimate tendency is to place both the will, and the physical organism under the government of the emotions; and so to degrade humanity below the level of the brutes that perish. The writer then traces the coincidence between this account and recent actual occurrences. Auzour.—Lesions of the Cutaneous Sensibility among the Insane. J. of Psycholog. Medicine, Jan., i860. Auzouy has studied the lesions of the cutaneous sensibility met with among the insane. Among 600 patients he found more than half affected with various degrees of analgesia. This state as shown by M. Beau may exist without tactile anajsthesia, but the latter of course involves the former. M. Michea has constate the existence of analo-csia in the case of most persons afflicted with melancholia, and notably so