RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 213 directed to support the strength, nor have means been adopted to ward off the supervention of pneumonia or bronchitis. Dr. Evans advocates tlie frequent administration of brandy and beef-tea after tracheotomy, believing that death by asthenia is the real tendency of croup apart from its suffocative effects. With respect to the circumstance lately dwelt upon by Dr. Richardson, of the formation of fibrinous concre- tions hi the rig-ht side of the heart, and consequent fatal syncope, in some cases of croup, the author dissents from Dr. Richardson as to the formation of these coagula depending solely on an increase of the librinc in the blood, and rather refers it to a retardation of the blood- current in consequence of the less free transmission of blood through the lungs. The suspicion, therefore, that a coagulum was in process of formation in the right cavities of the heart would be no argument against the performance of tracheotomy, but the reverse. Among the various circumstances which militate against the success of an opera- tion, Dr. Evans mentions the age of the patient, very few recovering who were under 2 years of age, while nearly half were saved between the ages of 6 and 12. Some practical hints are added relative to the details of the operation itself. Duncan, J.—On Paralysis of the Bronchial Muscles. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., May, i860. Dimcan beheves that long-continued inflammatory action may destroy the contractibihty of the bronchial muscular fibres, and records a case where the expiratory act was three times as long as the inspiratory, a sign which he considers distinctive of bronchial paralysis. In the cases in question after other means had failed, including electricity, extract of nux vomica had the best effect. Thorburn.—Cases of Idiopathic Pneumothorax with remarkable absence of bad Symptoms. Recovery. Brit. Med. J., June 2nd. Thorburn records a case which fell under his observation, where pneumothorax of the right side came on with no more symptoms than a sharp pain at the right side of the chest, and dyspnoea. It soon dimimshed and shifted its seat. On the second day after the pain had all but ceased, though the breathing on shght exertion was hurried, and the physical signs of pneumothorax were strongly marked. Recovery was nearly complete in about four months, his health has since been perfect, antt there is no discoverable sign of tubercular deposit. Another similar case is noticed. Vogt.—On the Treatment of Pneumonia by Veratria. Bull Gen de Therap., Jan. 30th, i860 .Brit, audFor. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, i860 Vogt thinks that the treatment of pneumonia by veratria is not only equal to other methods, but actually superior, as out of 100 well developed and serious cases, 8 only proved fatal. He gives -077 grain tiSfthe01 f,1UCC h°mS' Until th° productiou of vomiting or chminu- Priiuiam.—Observations on the Treatment of Asthma. Brit Med T June Qth, July 28th, Sept. ist, 29th, Nov. 17th, Dec. 29th. '