203 CIHCULATORY SYSTEM. Qogjy,—A rare Case of Aneurism of the ascending Aorta, hearing on the Pathogenesis of hemorrhagic Infarction. Gunsburg's Zeitschr. f. lflfn. !Med., N. F. I., Vol. 3 part. 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 241. , * The aneurism sprang from the aorta just above the sigmoid valves, occupied the whole right half of the thorax (?), and pressed the heart out of its vertical into a completely horizontal position. It had formed an adhesion with the hilus of the right lower lobe; and at this part, where the arterial coats were most diseased, a second cavity was formed communicating with the aneurism, but having much thinner walls, consisting only of pleura and connective tissue, and almost filled with solid reddish brown coagula. "This formation of a second anciu isnial pouch caused (1) dyspnoea and pain on the right lower side by compression of the bronchi, and secondary pleuritis; (2) hemor- rhagic pulmonary infarction by pressure on the pulmonary vein pro- ceeding- to the upper and middle lobes; (3) cyanosis and other obstruc- tion phenomena by the sudden production of notable contraction of the right auricle and of the superior cava opening into it.". Beckmann.—On Thrombosis of the Renal Veins in Children. Verhandl. der med. physik. Gesellsch. zu Wurzburg, 9 Bd. 1859, p, 201. (Janst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 248. Beckmann states this is no uncommon occurrence in infants dying with profuse diarrhoea and atrophy, he has exammed 10 cases carefully. The left renal vein was the one oftenest affected; ha a few cases the thrombus extended into and obstructed the inferior cava. The coagula were mostly dark red, and loosely adherent to the walls of the vessels. No blood in the urine, or other symptoms seem to have been observed during life. J. Baart de la Faille.—Case of Phlebothrombosis in a newly delivered Female. Nederl. Tijdschr., 1859, p. 167. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 248. Thrombosis of the left saphena v., crural, iliae, and inferior cava: thrombosis of the uterine, and pampiniform plexuses. Von Dcscii.—On Thrombosis of the Cerebral Siimscs. Zeitschr. f. ration, med., 3 Series, vii Vol., 1859, p. 161. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 248. Von Dusch finds among 57 recorded cases, 32 in which the throm- bosis resulted from gangrenous, erysipelatous, or purulent inflammations of parts whose vascular system was in close communication with the sinus; 4 in which it might be regarded as the result of external pressure on the sinus or internal jugular vein; 15 in which it seemed to be induced by influences enfeebling the circulation; and 6 in which no cause could be made out. In 27 cases, caries of the cranial bones was the cause of the affection. Thrombosis resulting from inflamma- tory action in the vicinity of the sinuses is characterized by its affecting an adjacent, and mostly a symmetrical sinus, by its advanced state of softening, by alterations in the wall of the sinus, and by inflammation