HE PORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 40 between them. Each fibre in Turner's preparations possesses a distinct nnd well-marked, unbroken outline ; the only intermediate material that he has been able to detect is an extremely delicate, wavy, connective tissue, which, although lying between the fibres, does not in any sense form a part of them. N, Jacubowitscii.—Tertninations of Nerves at the Periphery, and in the different Organs, or Peripheral Terminations of the Nervous System in general. Compt. Rend., p. 859, 7th May, i860. If the mesentery of a cat, containing Pacinian bodies, be examined with a power of 180 or 200 diameters, after it has been kept twenty-four hours in Moleschott's solution (a mixture of alcohol and acetic acid),1 the Pacinian bodies will be observed to consist of two capsules, an outer and an inner. The nerve itself usually divides before entering the Pacinian body into several branches, which retain their medullary substance and neurilemma until they have passed through the outer capsule ; but on arriving at the inner, they are reduced to the axis cylinder, which passes onwards to the upper part, and there terminates in the nucleus of a well- defined cell. If the tactile-corpuscles of the frog be examined in the same way, it will be found that their nerve-fibres also terminate in the nucleus of a cell. Hence there is a great analogy between the Pacinian bodies and tactile-corpuscles. In the case of some nerves, the fibres terminate in cells, but not in the nuclei, while in others, they form a network of very fine nerve-fibres, the axis cylinders of which run into each other, and thereby form a nerve net- work. Prof. Beale.—On the Distribution of Nerves to the Elementary Fibres of Striped Muscle. Proc. Roy. Soc., No. 40, p. 519. Beale's paper concludes with the following summary of the most im- portant facts elucidated in the inquiry: 1. That nerve-fibres in muscle and in many other tissues, if not in all, maybe traced into, and are directly continuous with, a network formed of oval nuclei and intermediate fibres. 2. That the organs by which nerves are brought into relation with other textures, and the agents concerned in the development of nerves and the formation of new fibres, are the little oval bodies or nuclei which are present in considerable number in the terminal ramifications of all nerves. A great number of these bodies is associated with exalted nervous action, while, when they are sparingly found, Ave may infer that the nervous phenomena are only imperfectly manifested. 3. That every elementary fibre of striped muscle is abundantly supplied with nerves, and that the fibres of some muscles receive a much larger supply than others. 4. That the nerves lie, with the capillaries, external to, but in close con- tact with, the sarcolemma. They often cross the muscular fibre at right angles, so that one nerve fibre may influence a great number of elementary muscular fibres. There is no evidence of their penetrating into the interior of the fibre. 1 Sec Report on "Vascular System," p. 27.