MEDICINE. 415 Mercurial Ointment in Peritonitis. (Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., v, 22, 23, 1859.) Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 105, p. 180.—Innhauser gives two successful cases of peritonitis treated by mercurial inunction after other means had been used unsuccessfully. Salivation seems to have been nearly, but not actually, produced in either. Diarrhoea. (Bull. Gin. de Therap., June 30, 1859.) Brit. For. Med.- Chir. Rev., Jan., i860.—Eisenmann advocates the use of sulphate of copper and opium in the treatment of diarrhoea occasioned by dentition. Chloroform. (Bull. G6n. de Therap., May, 18,59.) Brit- and For- Med.- Ch. Rev., Jan., i860.—Fonsagrives praises chloroform as an excellent hypnotic in doses of v\y—x, given internally. The Therapeutic Value of the Galvanic Current. (Aerztl. Intell. Bl., No. 4.) Canst. Jahrb., vol. v, p. 124.—Baierlacher confirms Remak's statements as to the value of the continuous current in various cases, as neuralgias, pelvic contractions, even when the latter have been produced by lead-poisqping. He recommends changing the direction of tjjhe current frequently, as a means of increasing its efficacy. Electricity as a Curative Agent. (Deutsche Klinik, Nos. 26, 27.) Canst. Jahrb., vol. v, p. 131.—Clemens dwells on the utility of the various kinds of electricity, used either singly or in succession. In impotence and sterility, he has obtained excellent results from sparks or shocks. Tumours of the female breast, ovaries, testes, and thyroid, he reports to be fused down and dispersed by electric shocks and continuous currents. Dysmenorrhcea and various diseases of the uterus are also treated by the same means with great advantage. Recent Inquiries relative to the Effects of Mineral Waters (Loesch- ner's Report). Canst. Jahrb., vol. v, p. 140.—We can only refer to some of the principal papers analysed. Beneke examines accurately the action of the hot baths at Naulieim on the healthy and diseased system, as indicated by the changes in the pulse, respiration, excretions, and nutritive processes. Virchow has studied the effect of sea-bathing on the temperature, pulse, and respiration. Mess considers the effect°of sea- bathing on the system as determined—(1) by the chemical quality of the water, (2) by the force of the waves, (3) by the temperature of the water, (4) by that of the air. Advances in the Science of Hydriatrics in 18^9 (Schneider's Report) Canst. Jahrb., Bd.v, p. 171.—Bdcker (Moleschott's Untersuchung., vol.vij p. 51) describes the effect of sitz-baths, douches, and wet-packing on the excretions. A " Young Physician" (Bayer. Aerzt. Intell. Bl., 1859, 4L 48, 51) gives a clear exposition of the therapeutic action of cold water in its various modes of application, insisting principally on its stimulant and cooling effect. Schneider and Traube (Deutsche Klinik, i860, No ?) describe the good effect of wet-packings in typhus and scarlatina. Tartivel (Journ. du Progres, Nos. 4, 5, 9) has observed the benefit produced bv hydrotherapy in inveterate syphilis.