REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 490 Hermann.—Diseases of Workmen in the Quicksilver Mines of Idria Wiener. Med. Wochensch., 1858, Nos. 40—43. The works at Idria are of three kinds :—1. Mining. 2. Preparation of metallic mercury. 3. Preparation of cinnabar. <;i<5 men are employed, 448 of whom at a time are employed in mining; all the men are engaged in turn at the other works. In 1856, 122 cases of disease occurred" viz., 27 of neuralgia, 14 of mercurial articular pains, 6 of mercurial tremors,' 16 of salivation, 2 of caries. By far the greater number of cases of merl curial disease occur while the men are engaged above ground in the preparation of the mercury. In spite of the unfavorable conditions under which they exist, octogenarians are often met with among those who have been workmen, which the author explains by the fact that very great care is taken of them while employed, and that at the end of ten years they have a right to a pension, &c. Prophylaxis consists in the employment of a respirator, the use of milk and cod-liver oil, the habit of chewing tobacco, and the employment of frequent baths. All the inhabitants of the valley, and even the animals, are liable to be affected with mercurial symptoms. Housselle.—Suffocation in the Gas of Mines. (Superarbitrium of the Royal Commission for Medical Affairs.) Casper, vol. xvi, p. 161. Keckeis.—The Gas Explosion in the Framisha Pit at Padochau. Wien. Med. Woch. Schrft., vol. xxxv, p. 36. Marten.— On the Injuries and Diseases to which Coal-miners are exposed. Casper, vol. xvi, pp. 264—277. Poggiale.—On the Fabrication and Employment of Lucifers. L'Union Med., Jan. n, i860. The author proposes the following improvements, with a view to counteract the dangers incident to the manufacture and use of matches, viz. : the more complete separation and ventilation of the buildings and workshops ; the exclusion of sulphur as an ingredient; the substitution of nitrate of potash for chlorate of potash; the prohibition of the sale or transport of lucifers, otherwise than in strong boxes, &c. Poggiale con- cludes his report as follows :—The vapours of phosphorus disengaged in lucifer manufactories are injurious to the workmen, who are affected by phosphoric necrosis. Inflammable paste of ordinary matches is extremely poisonous, has already given rise to a number of suicides and murders, and is therefore a source of danger to the public. In the manufacture of lucifers, phosphorus in its ordinary state ought therefore to be prohibited. The following pyrogenic substances might be substituted, viz.—1. A paste without phosphorus, consisting of ten parts of dextrine, seventy-five of chlorate of potash, thirty-five of binoxide of lead and of iron pyrites. Matches made of this substance require vigorous friction to inflame them. 2. According to another method, the match is charged with chlorate of potash, and must be rubbed against a surface covered with red or amorphous phosphorus. Kolb.—A contribution to the elucidation of the Injurious Character of certain Occupations. Ztsch. f. Hyg., vol. i, p. 375. Behrend.—On the Influence of Occupation upon Health and Mortality: 1. Engine Drivers and Stokers. 2. Butchers. 3. Vulcanite Work- ers. 4. Coal-miners. Henke, vol. lxxx, part 1.