OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 17 2. The new bone has a tendency to remain shorter, less voluminous, and more irregular than the old one, but it retains the general form of the latter, and in time fulfils all its functions. }. In orde r that the result of the operations be properly appreciated, the bones must be examined long after the cure is completed. 4. The chain-saw can be successfully employed in cutting through the muscles and periosteum in deep-seated operations, when it is impossible to use other instruments. (. The phenomena attending the regeneration of bone are closely allied, if not actually identical, with those observed during the formation of callus. 6. The preservation of the periosteum is eminently advantageous, although not absolutely essential to the regeneration of bone. The sur- rounding soft parts are, in some cases, of themselves sufficient for the purpose. 7. In compound comminuted fractures, the splinters, loss of substance, and separation of the ends of the bones, are all capable of repair, if the detached fragments be removed without taking away the periosteum. Flourens.—New Experiments on the Formation of Callus. Compt. Rend., 5th March, i860, p. 451. Flourens describes two kinds of callus ; one he names periosteal callus (cal pcriostique), which is permanent, the other muscular callus (cal musculaire), which is merely temporary. In a fractured limb it may, he states, be observed— (1) That the nerves are always uninjured. (2) The vessels are frequently ruptured, and extravasation takes place. (3) The sheathed tendons are unchanged. (4) Free tendons may, according to the situation of the fracture, get mixed up with the periosteum, and undergo all the phases of ossification. (5) The muscles are the true seat of the callus exterior to the periosteum (muscular callus). The muscles at a distance from the fracture may be perfectly uninjured, while those that are in contact with the fractured part change their colour and consistence, become pale and hard, and lose their striae; the tissue becomes fibrous, cartilage-cells, and even true bone-corpuscles at last making their appearance. As the fracture is cured all this disappears, and the muscles regain their normal condition. (6) The sheath of the muscles becomes swollen, occasionally cartilaginous, sometimes ossified. (7) The detached fragments of periosteum unite with the lining membrane of the medullary canal, and at last close it up at the fractured ends. (8) The periosteum (not detached) swells, adheres to the muscles, is transformed into cartilage, and the cartilage again is trans- formed into bone. This is the true callus by which the fracture becomes cured. (9) The bones themselves do not increase in volume, either trans- versely or longitudinally; they remain perfectly passive; it is the periosteum alone which is active in the formation of the callus, whether it be that lining the medullary canal or surrounding the exterior of the bone. Mottet. —Observation on the Complete Reproduction of Bone. Letter addressed to Flourens. Gaz. Med. de Paris, 27th Oct., i860, p. 672. Mottet records in the above-mentioned letter the following case, as an 2