290 REPORT ON SURGERY. answers they occnsion violent nnd protracted inflammation of those por- tions of the joint which have been left; the most that can be expected is anchylosis, whilst they not infrequently risk the preservation of limb and lite. The memoir contains accounts of several resections of the elbow- joint nnd of the carpus and metacarpal joints. 2. Lower Extremity. FJ5BGTJ8SON.—Excision of the Hip-joint; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., April 7, p. 342. Folkah.—Excision of the Hip-joint. Lancet, Nov. 24, p. 511. The age of the patient, thirty years, makes this an interesting case. Price.—On the Treatment of Certain Diseased Conditions of the Hip- joint by Complete and Partial Excision of the Articulations. Lancet, April 28, p. 419. TTke.—Excision of the Head of the Femur for Disease of Six Months' Duration ; Fatal Result on the Twentieth Day. Lancet, May <;, P- 443- Ektciisen.—Disease of the Great Trochanter and Neck of the Femur ; Removal of the Dead Bone. Med. Times aud Gaz., p. 266, March Fergusson.—Disease of the Hip-joint in a Little Boy ; Profuse Dis- charge ; Resection ; Partial Dislocation and Absorption of the Head of the Bone ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 1, p. 210. Boavman.—Disease of the Hip joint in a Young Girl ; Profuse Dis- charge, Emaciation, and Hectic ; Resection ; Head of Bone found Necrosed and Loose ; Recovery. Ib. FoiiK, C.—Remarlcs upon, and Experiences of, Resection of the Hip-joint. Archiv fur Klin. Chir. Langeubeck, vol. i, part 1, p. 173. An account of the history of this operation, the indications for it, and modes of performing it; the after-treatment; with an analysis of ninety- cases. Erichsen.—Clinical Lecture on Excision of the Hip-joint. Brit. Med. Jour., May 12, p. 351. Erichsen recognises three forms of hip disease—(1) the arthritic, in which the soft structures are alone primarily affected, usually with acute inflam- mation ; (2) the femoral, in which the morbid action begins in the tipper epiphysis of the femur ; (3) the acetabular, disease originating in the pelvic bones. He gives their distinctive characters, describes the opera- tion appropriate to each, and discusses the results of excision of this joint with respect to the immediate mortality consequent on it and the utility of the limb. Billroth.—On Resection of the Head of the Femur. Deutsche Klinik. Canst., vol. v, p. 220. Twelve out of thirty-two rases of this operation which Billroth collected terminated fatally. Some of the patients who recovered walked capitally with a stick, others required crutches. From these facts, from the