REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 01. quently be restored by galvanizing the phrenic nerves, or by performin< J artificial respiration by means of a bellows attached to a tube introj duced into the trachea. Marshall Hall's method does not succeed ii reviving rabbits. • Eulknruiig and Eiihuniiaus.—The Action of Digitalis on the Extirpalei Heart; and of Concentrated Solutions of Metallic Salts on the Mote Nerves of the Frog. Med. Centr.—Zeitg., vol. xxviii, pp. 98 ant J 102. Schmidt, vol. cvii, p. 160. The authors employed a solution of digitalin, of very moderate strength (half a grain to the ounce of water), and found that, if the under third o,! a frog's heart was held in it, the pulsations soon ceased. The pulsations recommenced, however, on the removal of the heart from the solution. When a solution of digitalin of half the above strength was employed, the pulsations of the heart, instead of being arrested, increased in frequency, and force. It was curious to observe, however, that every now and then: there was a pause, and that as the length of the pauses increased, thee number of pulsations (between the pauses ?) augmented. In an experi- ment with another frog's heart, and a still weaker solution (gr. j to 5viij),. the same phenomena were observed. The pauses were not, however, soj regular, and the pulsations became slowly fewer and fewer, while the* duration of each contraction was proportionally lengthened. The heart, continued to pulsate during two hours and a half. In their experiments on the action of concentrated solutions of metallic salts on the nerves, the authors again employed the frog. The sciaticc nerve was dissected out, and its cut (lower) end placed in the solution 1 conveniently held in a watch-glass. Solutions of the neutral acetate off lead, and a few other salts, were found not only to excite contractions in the muscles, but even to induce a state of tetanic spasm. The action is nott instantaneous, but begins in a few minutes. It thus seems that certain: chemical substances have a direct action on nervous matter. Dr. Rouget.—Observations on the Action of Nicotin on the Heart.— Journ. de la Phys., July, i860, p. 569. The common opinion is, that nicotin possesses in the highest degree? the power of rapidly destroying muscular irritability; the action oft* this substance on the heart, however, is singularly in opposition to this? opinion. In frogs killed by a drop of the solutiou of nicotin, the action of the- heart continues long after all trace of irritability has disappeared from the voluntary muscles. After the pulsations of the heart have diminished in 1 frequency and force, nicotin applied directly to the organ itself instantly increases their number; soon, however, a permanent contraction begins, and the pulsations cease. While the ventricle remains in this tonic con- vulsion, the cavity completely disappears. In birds and mammals killed by the inhalation of chloroform, the ventricles are immobile and dilated ; the right auricle only shows a few feeble movements. If the ventricle is pricked or galvanised while in this Btate, no, or only very slight, contractions are obtained, whereas the direct application of a drop of nicotin solution (strong) immediately induces 1 spontaneous contractions, and causes the organ to respond to me-