Ki'U'OUT O.N PUBLIC HEALTH. ■188 men employed, by the successive processes in the manufacture of bricks. As, however, the mode of brickmaking in Germany differs from that em- ployed in this country, and the extrinsic conditions to which the work- men are subject are also different, tbe results of the author are of less value. The practical improvements recommended consist in the limita- tion by law of the hours of labour and of the age of those employed, and of improvements in the general sanitary conditions to which they are subject. Blumlein.—Velvet and Sil/c Weaving, in relation to their Influence on the Body and Mind of the Weaver. Casper, vol. xv, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 66. This paper comprises the results of the author's experience of thirty years of practice in a district of 250,000 persons, of whom one fifth were of the occupation in question. Its injurious influence on the health is attributable—1, to the exposure of the workman to pulverulent matter; 2, to the constrained position of the weaver, especially in velvet work, and the consequent increased pressure on the abdominal organs, which, the author believes, tends to the production of " chronic inflammations " and organic disease. The frequency of mental derangement terminating in melancholy he regards as an ulterior result of the same causes. 3. To the minuteness of the work and the incessant din of the loom, which result in diseases of the eyes and ears; 4, to the mode of life of the weaver and the unwholesomeness of his dwellings and workshops. To this last group of causes the author attributes very great importance. Lefevre.—On the Causes of the Dry Colic observed on board Ships of Wur, especially in the Equatorial Regions, and on the means of preventing their development. Paris, i860. Canst., vol. vii, p. 71. A disease has prevailed of late years in the French navy, under the name of " dry colic," which has been the subject of much discussion, in relation to the question of its saturnine origin. In its symptoms it is not distinguishable from lead colic, and it is associated with the same nervous phenomena—paralysis of the extensors of the upper limbs, perversions of sensibility, neuralgic pains, and convulsions. The slate-coloured line along the edges of the gums is also observed. Against the opinion of Chevallier, that this disease is dependent on lead-poisoning, it is maintained by Dujardin and others that it occurs under conditions which preclude even the possibility of the introduction of lead into the system, and that its course and progress differ materially from that of colica pictonum. Lefevre physician to the fleet at Brest, deals with the whole question in an elaborate work, divided into five sections, of which the first treats of the history of the disease; the second investigates the possible modes of introduction of lead on board ship, such as the cooking and distilling apparatus, the pumps and receptacles for fresh water, &c.; the third com- prises the geographical distribution of tbe affection ; the fourth the in- fluence of meteorological and climatic causes, particularly of miasma, &c.; while the last is devoted to the means of prevention. Peacock.—On French Millstone-makers' Phthisis. Brit, and For. Med.- Chir., Jan., i860. As no stone of sufficient hardness for the grinding of wheat exists in this country, a remarkably obdurate siliceous stone, known as French burr,