804 REPORT OX SURGKRY. ing, but none of which was rejected. Eighteen years previously an abscess had formed at the navel, from which a worm that had evidently caused adhesion and perforation of the bowel was discharged. At the examination of the body a portion of ileum was found passing from below, on the right side, at an acute angle, upwards and towards the left, and ending in a roundish hand, which crossed the left flexure of the colon, and was lost on the peritoneal coat of the spleen. The upper end of this portion of bowel bent abruptly forwards, and the opposite surfaces of the loop were adherent. Above the bend the bowel was greatly dilated and congested ; it contained fceces and the mercury. The mesentery contained numerous deposits of tubercle, and the bowels were much matted together. Tuberculosis of the lungs and larynx was also present. Diaphragmatic Hernia. Bohn.—Hernia Diaphragmatica. Kbnigsberger Mediz. Jahrbiicher, ii. Canst., vol. iv, p. 183. A careful monogram based on an analysis of eighty cases. Derobe.—Reflections on a Penetrating Wound of the Chest and Belly, with Hernia of the Omentum and Internal Strangulation. Thesis, Paris, 1859. Canst., p. 155, vol. iv. A porter was stabbed between the fourth and fifth ribs on the leftside ; a portion of omentum which protruded through the wound w as tied and cut off; whilst the external wound was being closed the ligature slipped, but no bleeding took place. Two years afterwards, symptoms of internal ob- struction suddenly occurred, and ended fatally in eight days. Part of the transverse colon and omentum had protruded through the diaphragm into the chest. Curran.—Two Cases of Diaphragmatic Hernia. Lancet, Dec. 29th, p. 631. V.—Hernia. (a) Radical Cure. Morton, Jas.—The Radical Cure of Hernia. Edinb. Monthly Journ., Dec. 1st, p. 511. A paper read before the Glasgow Medical and Chirurgical Society, in which several of the modes of effecting the radical cure of rupture are criticised, and an operation devised by the author is described. This consists in " passing a metallic ligature subcutaneously around the sac, at the lower part of the inguinal canal, excluding that part only which lies behind the cord, and fixing it to a leaden plate by a nipple." Thompson, Henry.—Inguinal Hernia. Wutzers Operation for Radical Cure. Med. Times and Gaz., March 17th, p. 265. In this case the plug was withdrawn on the ninth day, and the patient was discharged, cured, a week afterwards. About three months after the operation the hernia again suddenly protruded. Macaulay, Page, Barber.—Report of Five Cases in which Wvt:ers and Wood's Operations were Performed. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 525, May 26th.