DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 895 Betz.—On Emphysema Pulmonum, produced by Hooping-cough. Mem. a. d. Praxis, 1859, iv, p. 7. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 31$. Wannebroucq.—On Hooping-cough, and particularly on the beat and Nature of that Affection. These, Paris, 1859. Dr. Fuller.—The successful Treatment of Hooping-cough by increasing doses of Sulphate of Zinc and Extract of Belladonna. Rep. of Harv. Soc, Med. Times and Gaz., May 26th, i860, p. 539, Fuller treats hooping-cough by giving to children under three years old one-sixth of a grain of extract of belladonna, and half a grain of sulphate of zinc four times daily. The dose is to be increased daily, or on alter- nate days. Moeller.—Hooping-cough. Report of the " Polykliniky Konigsberg. Med. Jahrb., vol. i, p. 3. Prof. Skoda.—Ore Hooping-cough. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., i860, 1. Schmidt, vol. 107,p. 198. Voss.—A Historical and Critical Examination of the Operation of Tracheotomy in Croup, with a Report of Fourteen Cases. New York Journ. Med., Jan., i860, p. 30. After giving a short historical account of the operation of tracheotomy in croup, the author discusses the following questions:—As to the propriety of the operation. When suffocation is imminent, and all other means have failed to relieve the patient, tracheotomy affords the only chance of saving life, and certainly in all cases of pure laryngeal croup. As regards the complication of laryngeal croup with pneumonia, he is of opinion that only bilateral pneumonia would forbid the operation. In regard to the time of performing the operation, his rule is to operate when respiration has been rendered insufficient, as shown by the com- mencing asphyxia, provided this state is not relieved by an emetic. He has not employed chloroform during the operation till recently, but pro- poses to use it in future. In the operation itself, resolute coolness, rather than a peculiar dexterity, is necessary. Three assistants are necessary. The instruments invented for the purpose of opening the trachea are next described. The best tube is the double one of Dr. Borgellat. Pure glycerine is used to dress the wound, applied every three or four hours. The precautions to be taken after the operation are next alluded to. Particulars of fourteen cases operated on by the author are then detailed. Eight boys were operated on, of ages ranging from two and a half to four and one sixth years;' of these two, aged respectively four and four and one sixth years, recovered, the other six died. There were six girls operated on, three of whom recovered, and three died. Fock.—Report on Twenty-four cases of Tracheotomy in the last stage of Croup. Deutsche Kl., 23, 24, 25, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 391. Of these twenty-four cases ten terminated favorably. The ages of the children varied from one and a quarter to nine years; fifteen were boys, nine girls. Fock's experience is, that the prognosis for the operation is most unfavorable where, from three to eight days previously, bronchial catarrh has been present, and croup symptoms have suddenly set in ; the pro- gnosis is more favorable in cases of simple croup. It is also more favorable