REPORT OX SPECIAL THERAPEUTICS. 414 M. iiixx ter die. Acute articular rheumatism is cut short usually from the third to fifth day; muscular rheumatism and rheumatic neuralgia are rapidly cured, as well as angina, pulmonary catarrli and influenza, gastric fever, catarrhal diarrhoea, and catarrho-rheumatic conjunctivitis. The Cure of Typhoid Fever. Lancet, April aist.—Brinton recom- mends emetics of ipecacuan wine once or twice a day for three or four days in cases of typhoid fever, if seen early. They are always harmless, in most instances extremely beneficial, in some instances they positively cut short the malady. Propylamine, a neio Remedy in Rheumatism. (Gaz. des II6pit., April, i860.) Edinb. Med. Journ., June, i860.—Propylamine is prepared by introducing into a retort a certain proportion of herring-brine, rendered strongly alkaline by potash, and distilling into a well-cooled condenser as long as the distillate exhales the odour of herring. The distilled liquid is to be saturated with hydrochloric acid, and evaporated to dryness, the hydrochlorate of propylamine being afterwards dissolved out by water. By adding very cautiously hydrate of lime the propylamine is obtained from the salt. Dr. Awenarius, at St. Petersburgh, has used it in 230 patients, and affirms that in every case pain and fever disappeared the clay after the administration of the remedy. He gives 20 drops in Jvj, 3j zdis horis. Treatment of Delirium Tremens by large doses of Digitalis. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 29th.—G. M. Jones administers ^ss of Tr. Digitalis, a second dose of gss in four hours, and in a few cases a third, which need not exceed Jij. Out of seventy cases digitalis failed in three only to produce sleep, in sixty-seven it was the only medicine used, and sixty-six of these recovered ; the fatal case was found to have a tirmour in the brain. Arsenic in Apoplectic Congestion. (Bull, de Therap., lvii, p. 192.) Med. Times and Gaz., July 14th—Lamare-Picquot strongly recommends the prolonged use of arsenic as an effectual means of subduing congestion likely to give rise to apoplexy. Delirium Tremens. Glasg. Med. Journ., Jan., i860.—Morton repro- bates the use of narcotics and stimulants, except under peculiar circum- stances, and advises the administration of tartar emetic, in doses varied to suit the case. Pycemia. (Arch. d. Heilk. i, 4, i860..) Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 108, p. 35. i—Roser recommends in the treatment of pyaemia plenty of fresh air and good, nourishing food, quinine and morphia. At the same time all decom- posing pus is to be washed away, disinfectants applied, and as little Sharpie used for dressing as possible. Pycemic patients should be isolated from others, visited last, and autopsies in fatal cases should not he made by the attending practitioner. Rbser ascribes diffuse inflam- mation and tetanus occurring after injuries to a miasm similar to that which causes pyaemia. Vesical Catarrh. (Canst. Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 2I2.)-Meinuard relates three cases, which resisted all other treatment, but were cured by two-gram doses of Pot. Iod.