DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 96 Prof. HVRTIi.— The Blood-vessels of the Thyroid Gland. Oest. Ztschr. f. prakt Ileilk., vol. vi, p. 19, i860. Next to the spleen, the thyroid is, cf all the organs of the body, the most abundantly supplied with blood. The united diameter of its four arteries is not much smaller than that of the four arteries of the brain, whereas its weight is only from 1 to 2 ounces, while that of the brain is from 34 to 65 ounces. Hyrtl states that it is untrue that the arteries of the thyroid gland freely communicate with each other; neither do those of the left side anastomose freely with those of the right, nor do the superior anastomose freely with the inferior. In the foetus, up till the end of the third month, the thyroid gland consists of two distinct portions, which afterwards gradually become united in front of the trachea. So it is not difficult to understand why there should uot be any very free communication between the arteries of the opposite sides. The v*ins communicate much more freely with each other than the arteries. Bodecker.—Contribution to our Knowledge of the Constituents of the Spleen. Henle u. Pfeuf., vol. vii, p. 1^3. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 4. Canst, vol. i, p. 220. Bodecker confirms the existence of inosite and cholestearin in the spleen of the ox. In the fresh spleen of a criminal, besides these sub- stances, he also found hypoxanthin. ABSORBENTS. Prof. Hyrtl.—On the Origin of the Lacteals. Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vol. vi, p. 21, i860. Pappenheim.—On the Lymphatic Vessels. Compt. Piend., vol. J, i860, p. .30. The author studied the course and distribution of the lymphatic vessels by arresting the escape of the lymph, and thereby causing them to become engorged and visible to the naked eye. By this means he ascertained that the spleen is better supplied with these vessels than the liver, and the liver than the lungs. In the diaphragm there are very few. The liver of the horse is tolerably richly supplied with lymphatics; but it is in the pancreas of the mole that these vessels are found in the greatest nu mber. In a subsequent communication (Compt. Rend., 23d April, p. 795), the author adds:—(1.) That he found the pulmonary pleura of a mare very rich in lymphatics (less so, however, than, the liver). (2.) In de- taching the membrane with the fingers and handle of the scalpel, he observed that the pleura sends in membranous prolongations amon°-'the lobes and lobules, accompanied by lymphatics. In fact, there are° the author states, two layers of these vessels, an external and an internal and it is the internal layer which sends branches amongst the lobes. In this respect, the lymphatics of the lung differ from those of the spleen, and perhaps also from those of the liver, for in these latter organs the vessels are not seen to penetrate deeply into the organ. (3.) The pul- monary pleura is much richer in lymphatics than the costal pleura. (4 ) The lymphatics of the diaphragm also constitute two layers; the in-