2 Iff RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. tions, he prefers inunction with preparations of mercury, iodine, or copper. Traube, Munk.—Pulmonary Abscess; Cure; Death from Pleurisy. Deutsche Klinik, 2 and 3, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 302. Traube in Munk's report states, that flakes of pulmonary parenchyma visible to the naked eye, lying- in a puriform sputa are characteristic of abscess. These contain, as -shown by the microscope, much elastic tissue, and free, black or yellow, amorphous or crystalline pigment. In tuberculous sputa the flakes of parenchyma are only of microscopic size, and in gangrenous sputa the elastic fibres arc destroyed. Bergh.—(Edema of the Glottis terminatinqfavorably. Hospit. Tidende, No. 20, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 303. In Bergh's case considerable advantage was derived from scarification of the epiglottis, a means in which he has great confidence. He would also employ tracheotomy in bad cases, quoting Valleix's statement that fths of those who were operated on sufficiently early recovered, lie also recommends leeches to the vicinity of the os hyoides, but discountenances the application of lunar caustic. He contests the opinion that the exudation is limited to the upper orifice, and does not extend into the interior of the larynx. The expiration is less impeded than the inspiration, but is not quite free. Smith, A. H.—Dyspnoea as a Mechanical Cause of Conqestion of the Lungs. Brit, Med. J., Sept. 15th. Amer. Med. Times, July 21st. Smith observes that blood is drawn into the lungs as well as air, during inspiration, and if the entrance of air is obstructed the amount of blood entering the lungs may be greatly increased. He illustrates this by an experiment, in which an animal's trachea being tied, and one side of the chest opened, that lung was found but slightly con- gested, the other gorged with blood. In diseases which obstruct the access of air the same occurs. The best remedy he thinks would be to increase the amount of oxygen in the ah inspired. E. Smith.—Some Practical Questions in the Treatment of Phthisis. , Brit. Med. J., Oct. 6th. . Smith argues for the existence of a pretubercular stage of phthisis in which the mechanical, chemical, and vital action of the lungs is lessened, and they are prone to become " depositors of diseased pro- ducts." He proposes as a remedy the practice of forcible voluntary expansion of the lungs for ten minutes at a time twice a day, and states that the following benefits result, viz., diminished tendency to closure of the air-cells; possibly, the promotion of the absorption of deposits; increased vitality of the structures of air-eels 5 freer pulmo- nary circulation; more complete evolution of the carbonic acid retained m the air-cells and increased chemical and vital changes in the air- cells ; increased development and power of the inspiratory muscles and the direction of the patient's attention to the avoidance of shallow" and short inspiration. With regard to the profuse sweats, Smith finds