450 REPORT OX LEUAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. vomiting and purging, attended with violent cries of pain ; this resulted in CcJinpse and death in about twenty-four hours. Suspicion being directed to the case in consequence of a rumour that poison had beet) purchased by the mother, an inquest was held, and the body examined. The external appearances were natural, with the exception that tberewas excoriation of the integument surrounding the anus. The organs and dejections were forwarded to Dr. Taylor for analysis, of wbose evidence the following is a summary:—i. A mercurial compound, believed to be white precipitate, mixed with farinaceous and other matter, was found in tbe contents of tbc stomach. 2. A mercurial compound was found in the dejections, in the oesophagus, small intestines, liver, and kidneys. 3. There was redness of the oesophagus, a red patch in the stomach, and great redness of the upper part of the small intestines. 4. The other organs were healthy. Taylor.—On Poisoning by White Precipitate. Guy's Hospital Reports, p. 483. The author remarks on the medical evidence in the case above cited, that there was no specific symptom, such as salivation, to point to the effect of a mercurial irritant compound ; that only one fatal case in a human being is recorded of death from this poison ; and that, in that case, the child had salivation, and died of the effects; that, with the exception of some experiments on animals, there is no medical experience of the effects of this poison on the body; that the quantity of the precipitate found in the body of the child was not what would be called a fatal dose ; that evidence of the presence of absorbed poison deposited in the liver and other organs utterly fails in this case, because a compound of mer- cury (gray powder) had been given during the treatment; that, putting aside the white precipitate found in the body, there was nothing in the appearances irreconcileable with the effects of disea.-e. From these con- siderations Dr. Taylor concluded that there was no absolute or complete evidence, although a strong probability, that white precipitate was the direct cause of the inflammation of the bowels. The trial took place at the Lewes Lent assizes, i860. The charge of murder was abandoned, and the prisoner indicted and convicted upon the charge of administering poison with intent to murder. Pavy.—Physiological Action of While Precipitate on Animals. Guy's Hospital Reports, p. 505. Pavy finds that white precipitate acts on animals as a powerfully and purely irritant poison. A dose of four or five grains proves fatal to a rabbit in a few hours. In smaller doses it produced death after several days, from the effects of inflammation of the alimentary tract, accompanied with a "most peculiar condition of the kidneys," the urmiferous tubules of the cortical substance being more or less choked with a granular deposit, stated by the author to be "composed principally of phosphate of lime." Stadion.—On the Toxical and Pharmacodynamical Action of Corrosive Sublimate. Med. Ztg. Russlands, pp. 1—6, 1859. Stadion's observations were directed to the question whether or not, as maintained by Voit, corrosive sublimate owes its activity to its chemical reaction on albumen. He found that the action of sublimate, combined