DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 83 Prof. J. H. Corbett.—On the Deglutition of Alimentary Fluids. Biit. Assoc', for the Advancement of Science, Oxford, i860. Brit. Med. Jouru., 21st July, p. 569. In this paper the author endeavours to prove that there are two dis- tinct forms of deglutition ; that while the alimentary holus is propelled with rapidity over the epiglottis, fluid can flow in two streams, one on each side of the epiglottis, without the dauger incidental to its passage over the central aperture of the larynx. In experiments made on the dead hody, the author observed that fluid poured upon the dorsum of the tongue passes backwards into the pharynx in two streams through the grooved passages situated at each side of the epiglottis and arytseno- epiglottidean folds. In the living body, during the deglutition of fluids, the uvula falls for- wards upon the tongue, in front of the epiglottis ; and both the uvula and epiglottis afford protection to the respiratory apparatus. The fluid is divided by the uvula into two currents, which descend at each side under the half arches of the palate, and such is the principal use of the uvula. The distinctness of the two forms of deglutition is also indicated by the fact that the mouth may be filled with food, and yet drink can be swal- lowed without displacement of the solid aliment. Bernard.—Lecture XI. On the Parotid Gland. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 362. When speaking of the salivary glands, Bernard remarks, that well- marked salivation may be induced in animals by simply wounding certain parts of the floor of the fourth ventricle. When the wound is made in the mesial line, the flow of saliva is the same on both sides of the mouth; but if the cutting instrument chances to deviate to the right or to the left instead of acting directly in the median line, the least saliva flows on the wounded side. He also noticed that more saliva is furnished by the submaxillary than by the parotid gland. Salivation only occurs when the wound in the fourth ventricle includes the parts adjoining the origin of the fifth pair of nerves. Jules Cloquet.—Observations on the Existence of a Salivary Calculus in a Neio-born Child. Compt. Rend., p. 893, 14th May, i860. Cloquet begins by remarking that six months previously he had shown to the Academy a urinary calculus, extracted by Dr. Burdel from the prostatic region of a child immediately afterbirth ; from the same gentle- man Cloquet had received the salivary calculus, and the history of the case is,—a woman brought to Dr. Burdel her child, aged three weeks, because .t had a difficulty in sucking, and on the doctor examining the child's mouth he found under the tongue a hard swelling, in the centre of which tvas the salivary calculus. The calculus was analysed by M. Fremy, and found to consist of tribasic phosphate of lime, along with a small quantity )f organic matter, probably mucus. Cloquet thinks the case one of rjeat importance, as it is impossible to suppose that the calculus had brmed during the three weeks of extra-uterine life, and this is the first :ase ever recorded of a saHvary calculus having been developed in a fcetus lefore birth.