11BP0ET ON THE INSTITDTB6 01' MEDICINE. ventricular cavities, as shown by casts of their interior. The left always yields a beautiful and perfect, right-handed, conical screw, while the cast of the right ventricle, although it has the same twist, represents only an incomplete portion. Dr. M. FOSTEE.— Contributions to the Theory of Cardiac Inhibition. Meeting of Brit. Association at Oxford. Lancet, 7th July. Foster details a series of experiments illustrating the action of galvanic currents of different strengths upon the contraction of the heart, through the agency of the pneumogastric nerves. His experiments were made chiefly on the snail, and the results prove the inhibitory action of these nerves upon the heart. Dr. G. B. HALPOBD.—On the Action and Sounds of the Heart. A Physiological Essay, pp. 47. Hal ford concludes, from his experiments, that both sounds of the heart are caused by the vibrations of the valves produced by the back- ward pressure of the blood, first against the auriculo-ventricular (first sound), and, secondly, against the ventriculo-arterial valves (second sound). The bruit musculaire is, in his opinion, nothing more than the vibrations of the compressed air in the tube of the stethoscope, or in the external auditory meatus, produced by the impulsion of the instrument against the ear. The striking of the heart's apex against the ribs, which has been given as the cause of the first sound, is, he thinks, " no cause at all," while the theory of the sounds being produced by the passage of the blood through the heart is even less satisfactory. In conclusion, Halford says that, when the first sound is heard, the ventricles contract, and the auriculo-ventricular valves are made tense, and completely separate the cavities of the ventricles from the auricles; the te?ision of these valves produces the first sound, When the second sound is heard, the ventricular systole has ceased ; the aorta and pulmonary artery have reacted upon their contents ; the cavities of the ventricles are separated from the systemic and pulmonary systems by the closure of the semi- lunar valves, the tension of which produces this sound. On the Action of the Heart, and the Signification of its Throb. Several letters from different gentlemen will be found on this subject in the Lancet of the 28th of July, 4th, nth, and 18th of August. On the Sounds of the Heart.—Letter by Dr. Maekham. Med. Times and Gazette, Nov. 17th, p. 487. Prof. J. Budge.—Remarks on the Experiments of Professor V. TT'ittich, on the Dependence of the Rhythmical Movements of the Heart upon the Cardiac Ganglia. Deutsche Klinik, No. 3, p. 28. TT'ittich in reply, ib., No 16. Budge's rejoinder, No. 26, p. 264. Einbhodt.— On Irritation of the Heart, and its Relations to the Pressure of the Blood. Sitz.-ber. d. Wien. Akad., vol. xxviii, 1859, p. 345. Canst., vol. i, p. 105. From experiments on dogs and rabbits made by the author, under Ludwig's guidance, it appears—(1) that the heart is extraordinarily sen- sitive to electricity. (2) The number of pulsations increases and the lateral pressure in the carotid artery diminishes in proportion to the dura-