REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICnfE, 148 Emetic Ointment. Bayer, Aerzt. Intell. Jil. 13, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 47. Lindwurm is led by his experience to assign a very subordinate place to syphilisation as a remedy for syphilis. He thinks it may be appli- cable to cases in which mercury and iodine arc not tolerated, or fail to cure. He concludes from his trials, that the same results may be obtained by exutories of any kind as are produced by syphilisation. Two patients were cured of constitutional syphilis by having two large issues made with Vienna paste, in one on both arms, in the other on both thighs. Hurra.—On Syphilisation. Wien. Ztsch. N. F. iii, 9, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 47. ITcbra states, as the result of his experience of syphilisation, that the general health improves, and all the objective and subjective phenomena of syphilis gradually disappear during the continued inoculations. He adds, however, that a comparative trial of iodine, mercury, decoction of the woods, and laxatives, shows that, with respect to the shortened duration of the disease, the rapidity and certainty of the cure, a decided preference is to be given to mercurials. Two patients were subjected at the same time to mercurial frictions, but the results of the inocu- lations were quite the same in them as in those not so treated. Keller.—Serpiginous Ulcers of the Skin. Wien. Med. Wochenschr. 46, 47, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 52. Keller thinks that "so much is settled, and can no longer be qui - tioned, viz., that the so-named syphilitic ulcers on the extremities, which are characterised by their g-rouping and renal form, by their serpiginous advance at their convex border, and their healing and skinning over at their concave border, are nothing but the results of mercurial cachexia; and the same is true of the so-called angina syphilitica with serpiginous ulcers on the palate, throat, or root of the tongue, giving rise to tlie aphonia, so often described as a characteristic of syphilis." Pot. Iod. cures such by eliminating the mercury out of the system. Medical lieporl from the Royal Imperial Hospital of Vienna for the Civil Year 1858. Published by the desire of the Minister of the Interior by the Directors of the General Hospital, Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 197, p. 112—126. The report of the Vienna Hospital contains a large amount of detail relative to various diseases, but it is not possible to abstract it. Gairdner.—Clinical Lecture on the Distinctions of Typhus and Enteric {Typhoid) Fever. Lancet, July 21st. Gairdner argues for the non-identity of typhus and enteric fever on the ground that, although fever has not been epidemic for the last six months in Edinburgh, five cases of typhus occur together in one group, while one case of enteric is sent to hospital from a distance, where enteric fever alone is prevalent. Gairdner has never observed, after careful search, that typhus has ever given rise to anything but typhus, or enteric to anything but enteric.