EEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 46 properties (especially the former) nre re-acquired by a nerve, in which they have been abolished, as soon as it regains its normal anatomical structure. Heurteloup.—On Nervous Syncope, its Significant Causes, and Nervous Derangements: to assist in elucidating the so-called Urethral Fever. Compt. Rend., 19th March, i860, p. 579. Heurteloup employs the term nervous syncope in order to distinguish a peculiar kind of fainting from the one usually supposed to arise from cessation of the heart's action. In some persons, the nervous syncope which he alludes to arises without any apparent cause; in others it is induced by a discordant sound, a disagreeable odour, a flash of light, or a sudden touch. It may also be induced by the sight of a mouse or spider, and in some constitutions even the mere recollection of passed emotions, or the thought of some future suffering, is sufficient for its pro- duction. Lastly, it may arise under the influence of a lesion or physical modification, such, for example, as too great heat, want of food, extreme titillation, the touching of a sensitive organ, the squeezing of a nerve, &c. Among the latter series of causes, Heurteloup especially signalizes the touching of the interior of the urethra. Prof. Poelman.—Note on the Diagnosis of Apoplexies. Compt. Rend., Nov., i860, p. 747. In a letter addressed to Flourens, Poelman remarks, that during several months he watched a little dog, in the house of one of his patients, which manifested very unusual symptoms. Its intelligence was perfect, there was no paralysis, yet the animal could not regulate its movements. Several times during the course of the day it was seized with an involuntary fit of turning round, always in the same direction; the fit lasting upwards of a quarter of an hour. After death, a considerable number of calcareous concretions were discovered in the middle peduncles of the cerebellum, while the greater part of the cerebellum itself appeared as if petrified. In the pons varolii were also a few calcareous granulations. The author adds: 1. The lesion of the cerebellum, almost entirely petrified, accounts for the irregular movements. 2. The diseased middle peduncles of the cerebellum and pons varolii, account for the involuntary circular movements. To this the author further adds, that the brain is essentially composed of three distinct parts :—1, brain proper—seat of the intelligence; 2, cere- bellum—seat of the principle which regulates the movements ; 3, medulla oblongata, or more properly the vital point—seat of the principle regu- lating the vital functions. Loss of intelligence marks cerebral apoplexy; disordered movements, hemorrhage into the cerebellum; sudden death, extravasation in the medulla oblongata—vital point. Brown-Sequaud.—Researches on the Physiology and Pathology of the Pons Varolii. Journ. de la Phys., vol. ii, p. 121. The restiform bodies and their prolongations are not, as they are sup- posed to be, the conductors of sensitive impressions. The hyperesthesia occurring on the side corresponding to unilateral injuries of the cord passes to the opposite side when the gray central substance of the medulla