SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 261 arc exoelled as they are laid. He succeeded in obtaining their dcvclop- l i,iX P adng them in water, which was changed every day. The process did not begin for 6 months, and the embryo was not formed till nearly 9 had elapsed. Vogler and Sales-Girons.—On Inhalation as a means of Curb Deutsche Klinik, 35, 1859. Bull dc Ther. lvi, Feb. 1859. Schmidt s Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 36. Voider describes the effects produced by inhaling more or less com- pletely the carbonic acid gas (diluted with air) which is given off from the springs at Ems. More or less irritation is produced, and it is only in cases of a torpid character that the practice is beneficial. Sales- Girons recommends the inhalation of air charged with the spray of various medicated liquids. The spray (staub) is obtained by means of a contrivance which throws a fine stream of the liquid against an obstacle. Lancet, Jan. 21st, i860.—Four cases of saturnine disease arc re- corded in the "Mirror;" one from the use of white and red lead in work, one from taking snuff adulterated with lead, one from drinking water contaminated by lead, one from scouring pewter pots. Unguen- tum Ghjcerinii, composed of 5 parts of glycerine, and 1 part of starch, forms a most excellent recipient. Vaccination in Pertussis (v. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 21st) has been tried in Kowno, Kussia. The vesicles followed their usual course, some- times beneficially modifying the pertussis, at others not. Hermann.—On the influence of dilution of the Blood upon the Secretion of Urine. Virch. Arch., xvii, 1859. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb. i860. Hermann, after injecting water into the veins of dogs, observed that biliary pigment passed off in the urine, which was not otherwise abnormal. If the quantity of water, however, exceeded a certain amount, then the urine became red, and contained hrematosine and albumen, but not constantly blood cells. The author believes that the dilution of the blood as such does not cause the transudation of the albumen of the serum into the urine, but that it sets free a consider- able quantity of hamiatoglobulin, which transudes more easily through the walls of the Malpig.-tufts than serum-albumen does. He also believes that the biliary pigment is produced by a transformation of the hsematosine, in accordance with the observations of Ktihne. Marchax de Calvi praises iodine as an excellent disinfectant, as destroying fungi and improving the state of unhealthy wounds. Bon- nafont recommends aathcrisation as a means of arresting relapsing intermittent fever. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 174. Linnart and Buciiner each relate a fatal case of chloroform inhala- tion. Friedberg, one of recovery from the same state by means of