101 GENITO-UlUNAItY SYSTEM. have been immersed in water is due to n crumpled, creased, and collapsed state of the membranous walls of the secreting tubes and capillary vessels. 3d. A small quantity of a transparent and faintly granular material, with distinct nuclei, the nature of which has not yet been determined, is to be demonstrated between the walls of the tubes and the capillary vessels. 4th. The changes met with in disease can be fully explained without supposing the existence of a fibrous matrix. J. Ch. Lehmann.—On the Acidity of the Human Urine in Health and Disease. Biblioth. for Lager, xiii, p. 18. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 148. Lehmann chiefly devoted his attention to the acidity of the urine in acute febrile states of the system, in which the rapid retrograde metamor- phosis of tissue is supposed to influence very considerably the quality of the urine. From a great number of observations made on such cases, it appears that in general the acidity of the urine is not increased ; it is even frequently under the normal standard. In typhoid fever, the acidity of the urine was found greatest in the first stage of the disease, it diminished in the second, and increased again during convalescence ; but as long as the patient remained in the hospital, the urine was never found to be more acid than in health. In acute rheumatism, the acidity of the urine ap- peared to be in direct proportion to the amount of the pain and to the severity of the fever. The acidity reached its climax when the heart became affected, and through the heart the breathing. In a case of em- physema, Lehmann observed that the acidity of the urine increased pro- portionally with the difficulty of breathing. The urine contained more free acid in cases of pneumonia and pleurisy than in any of the other cases of disease he examined. That the acidity of the urine should, in acute febrile states of the body, be under the normal standard is, at first sight, surprising ; but it is easily understood when it is remembered that the acid is in great measure derived from the food, and that in fevers very little nourishment is taken by the patient. Dr. Wm. Roberts (Manchester).—Observations on some of the Daily Changes of the Urine. Ed. Med. Journ., March, p. 817, and April, p. 906. The observations were made upon a healthy man, twenty-eight years of age, taking moderate exercise, living under most favorable hygienic con- ditions, weighing 144 lbs., and taking solid food only twice a day. The daily mean quantity of urine for ten days, on ordinary diet, was forty-six fluid ounces; giving an hourly mean of two ounces. But the flow was not equable: it rose after meals, fell during fasting, and reached its minimum in the hours of sleep. On one occasion, seventeen ounces six drachms flowed in forty minutes, after taking on an empty stomach half a pound of sugar and a glass of water. Roberts agrees with Dr. B. Jones, that a meal, be it of animal, vegetable, or mixed food, has a powerful and constant effect in lowering the acidity of the urine, fre- quently even rendering it alkaline. When food devoid of mineral constituents was used, no lowering of the acidity of the urine was observed. On two days, sugar or honey was taken instead of the ordinary food ; and the acidity of the urine main- tained itself almost unchanged, with a tendency to elevation rather than depression.