VASCULAR SYSTEM. 33 equal dimensions were simultaneously applied at two points of the arte- rial system, at unequal distances from the heart, they would both indicate the same degree of pressure. This statement is contrary to the ideas of Bichat whoDthought that the force of the blood is solely due to the action of the heart, and that the impulse of the blood gradually diminishes as it approaches the capillary system. Volkmann, in 1850, showed, on physical grounds, that Poiseuille's views could not be correct. Our author has now repeated and extended his experiments, and gives, in the present communication, the results obtained in a tabular form. It is, however, unnecessary here to give the tables; suffice it to say that Poiseuille, by employing tubes with branches so arranged as to imitate the arterial system, obtained results opposed to the statements of Volk- mann and confirmatory of his own views. Dr. Marey.—Researches on the Circulation in Health and Disease. Paris, 1859, 4-to. Dr. Marey.—On the Pulse, and on Vascidar Murmurs. Journ. de la Phys., 1859, pp. 2,59, 420. Canst., vol. 1, p. 37. Arterial elasticity enables the ventricle to expel more blood into the vessels than it could with the same power drive into a system of rigid tubes, where the whole friction would require to be simultaneously overcome. The dilatation of the arteries not only obviates the necessity of instantly overcoming the friction (which increases with the square of the velocity), but also of propelling all the fluid forward at once. Elastic tubes do not, of course, possess those advantages except when the stream of liquid is intermittent. The circumstances just alluded to, the author thinks, ex- plain why ossification, or any other condition which lessens arterial elasti- city, favours dilatation of the ventricles. In order to determine the effects of an intermitting flow of liquid upon elastic tubes, the author used a hemodynamometer, carrying a capillary tube at the upper end of its ascending limb. The position of this tube was such as to cause a gradual rise of the column of liquid corresponding to the true mean pressure, and a considerable source of error was thereby obviated. An increased supply of fluid to a tube enhances the lateral pressure mostly near the inlet, whilst an impediment to the out- flow augments it mainly near to the obstruction of the tube. If fluid be driven in jets, the rapidity of dilatation decreases with the distance from the inlet. In the living arteries, the pulse everywhere commences simul- taneously. Marey's view is therefore opposed to the idea of the gradual propagation of pulse waves. Blowing murmurs always arise when the arterial blood is suddenly relieved of tension, as after clearing a constriction. The intensity of the murmurs is as the difference of tension above and below the stricture. They occur wherever a wave of normal or excessive volume is driven into an arterial system of weak tension, as in chlorosis, typhus, and some phlegmasise. Where an aneurism suppresses the pulse, partially or entirely, it is because the capacious sac removes the disparity of tension produced by every fresh inflow, and not because it contains coagula. An aneurism at the commencement of the aorta may, therefore, without injury, abolish the pulse throughout the body. 3