NERVOUS STSTEM. 159 predisposing- cause. The plan of treatment adopted and recommended by the author consists of (i) Artcriotomy. (2) Cold affusion to the head and epigastrium. (3) Rapid counter-irritation by the application of a hot spatula to the nape ; and (4) Internal counter-irritation by the administration of croton oil. L. Meyer,—The Epithelial Granulations of the Arachnoid. Virch. Archiv., xvii, 3, 4, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol 105, p. 41. Meyer describes a new pathological alteration in the arachnoid, consisting in the formation of minute granulations, some low and roundish, others more elongated, which are scattered over the free serous surface. When they are numerous, the membrane appears thickened and opaque. They appear to be the result of chronic irritation of the arachnoid, and are found in cases of old standing epilepsy, general paralysis, and mania ending in idiocy. Duchenne.—On Ataxic Locomotrice Progressive. Archiv. Gen., Dec, 1858 ; Jan., Feb., April, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 43. Duchennc describes "ataxic locomotrice progressive" as a disease whose chief characters are the increasing loss of the co-ordinating power of the movements, and retention of muscular power in strong contrast to the apparent paralysis. The patients can scarcely stand upright, feel giddy, and believe themselves always to be impelled forwards. They are sometimes quite unable to walk, even when supported, and the attempt induces extreme exhaustion. Yet when sitting or lying, they can exert a normal amount of muscular force without feeling wearied. Anaesthesia usually sets in together with the motor disorder, affecting the skin, muscles, bones, and joints. The sensation of touch is first lost, then that of pain, then that of tem- perature. The anaesthesia extends towards the centre. Duchenne does not consider the motor disorder to depend on the anaesthesia; he believes the co-ordinating power to be primarily affected, and shows that (unlike what happens in anaesthesia) watching the movements with the eye does not enable the patient to perform regular move- ments. Pains occur in paroxysms lasting from a few minutes to several days, always affect the same spot, and are compared to a knife being thrust into the parts and twisted about. Constricting pains are sometimes felt in the limbs or chest. The pains set in at the com- mencement of the disease, and increase in intensity as it advances. The motor nerves of the eye are commonly affected by paralysis at the commencement, usually one of them, especially the sixth. Am- blyopia or amaurosis accompanies the paralysis, and is more permanent. Other cerebral nerves, except the olfactory, are sometimes paralysed the virile power is almost invariably weakened, the sphincters are sometimes paralysed, sometimes there is difficulty in the expulsion of urine and faeces. The intellect remains unaffected, and also the electro- muscular contractility. The disease is very chronic, may continue twenty years, but the sufferers are usually cut off by intercurrent diseases. The diseases with which the one in question may be con- founded, arc, the general paralysis of the insane, general spinal paralysis, wasting muscular palsy, paralysis agitans, and hysterical