DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 399 same affection in the cow, and generally to the croupous affections of domestic auimals. Dr. Blair. — Case of Intestinal Worms, terminating fatally. Edinb. Med. Journ., Dec, i860, p. 535. Naudin.—Imperforate Rectum, with Recto-vaginal Fistula; Operation. Journ. de Mc'd. de Toulouse, 5, i860. Loscjiner.—Leukaemia in Children, Jahrb. f. Kind., 1859, 1. Canst., vol. iv, p. 388. Loschner relates four cases where this condition was observed. All died, and all were similarly affected with enlargement and infiltration of the lymphatic glands, enlargement of the spleen and liver. A cachectic condition was always present. The symptoms were, great emaciation, haemorrhages from the nose, mouth, and intestinal canal, bronchial catarrh, asthmatic attacks, pleurisy, oedema, offensive perspirations. The blood Mras poor in fibrine. The special characteristic is a peculiar metamorphosis of texture, giving rise to tumours, situated partly in the glandular organs, partly in the subdermoid cellular tissue. In all the cases the blood-elements were markedly diseased, sometimes primarily, at other times secondarily. Dr. Jenneb.—Cases illustrating the Symptoms and Pathological Appear- ances of Albuminoid Infiltration of the Spleen, Lymphatic Glands, §-c, in Children. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 8th, i860, p. 533. Jeuner, in a series of papers, of which this is the first, wishes to call the attention of the profession to albuminoid disease, aud especially to albu- minoid disease of the spleen as observed in children—an affection rather common, but in this country rarely diagnosed. Two cases are reported at length—one that of a boy who died when one year and six months old, the other also that of a boy aged fifteen months. Both children were affected with rickets, with which this albuminous disease of the spleen is often associated. Both died from the softened state of the ribs diminishing the inspiratory power, and so necessitating pulmonary collapse. When the entrance of air was obstructed by mucus in the tubes, the deaths occurred rather suddenly. Both were extremely emaciated, and very pale. The spleen in both was enlarged, and pretty equably infiltrated with a colourless, transparent exudation. The edge of the liver was affected in a similar manner, as were also the lymphatic and mesenteric glands. Acute Yellow Atrophy of the Liver in a Child. Report from the St. Joseph's Children's Hospital, Vienna. Jahrb. f. Kind., vol. ii, p. 42. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 71. Bn UN niche.—On the Pathological Signification of Icterus in New-born Children. Journ. f. Kind., 3 and 4, i860. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 62. Jacobi (New York).—On Enlargement of the Infantile Liver. N. Y. Journ. Med., Jan., i860, p. 1. KIDNEYS AND GENERATIVE ORGANS. Gmelin.— On the Formation of Renal Calculi in Children. Wurt. Com Bl., 27, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 64.