158 REPORT OK PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Maino.wet.—On Diphtheritic Paralysis. Archiv. Gen. do Med., Oct., 1859. Brit, and For. Mcd.-Chir. Rev., Jan., i860. Maingatdt discusses fully the subject of diphtheritic paralysis, and gives numerous illustrative cases. He describes the paralysis as super- vening during convalescence, two or three weeks after all throat affection has disappeared. It first affects the soft palate, occasioning difficult deglutition and nasal speech. Subsequently it becomes almost general, involving even the sphincters. Death may ensue, or slow recovery. LoNGnuiiST.—On Coup deSoldi. Lancet, Jan. 7th, i860. Longhurst relates three cases of coup de solcil in India, which recovered under cold aspersion, stimulants to the epigastrium, pur- gation, and brandy and water. He remarks on the action of the stream of cold water upon the head, at first exciting the nervous system, raising the pulse, and inducing forcible contraction of the voluntary muscles; but if continued too long at one time, it was followed by diminution of volume in the pulse, and marked depression. He further insists on the absolute necessity for the removal of a patient to a colder climate, when once he has been the subject of this very fatal affection. Chapple.—Notes relative to cases of Sunstroke at Baroda. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, i860; Trans. Med. Phys. Soc. of Bombay. No. V., new series. Chappie reports, that the chief predisposing cause of sunstroke in the cases observed by him was intemperance, with one exception all were hard or free drinkers. Within seven days, 10 died out of a strength of 211, in spite of all precautions against the extreme heat. Suspension of drills and parade, and the closure of the canteen (save one pint of porter daily to each man), with removal to the seacoast, were the means which proved successful in arresting the mortality. Smith.—Remarks on Sunstroke. Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 1st. Smith remarks particularly on the heat and dryness of skin which is observed both in the early and in the later hours of an attack of sun- stroke. Tie regards it as a prime point to get the refrigerating action of the skin restored, and recommends the administration of tea, ipecacuan emetics, and tepid douches. Gordon.—On the Prevalence of Heat-Apoplexy among Soldiers during the Hot-Weather Campaign of 1858. Edin. Med. J., May. Gordon remarks that it has been found by others, as well as himself, that heat-apoplexy is not so much caused by exposure to the direct rays of the sun, as by intense heat and close atmosphere within doors. Yet it is difficult to account for the entire exemption of women who are more in the house than the men. All causes that depress the vital energies increase the liability to the disease, and there are certain atmospheric conditions that seem to exert a great influence. Thus, a remarkable number of cases occurred on May 23rd and 24th, not only in one, but in various remote places. Dram-chinking is a powerful