56 HEPOET ON THE INSTITUTES OE MEDICINE. after much food; to the corpulent; to those whose skin is habitually dry ; to those exposed to a burning sun ; in recovery from suspended animation ; and to those who take excess of food. The leading ideas are that tea increases all vital actions (including the transformation of the hydro-carbons) and the action of the skin, and is therefore suited to conditions of temporary excess of food and heat, and to some forms of defective assimilation. It lessens or increases the waste of the system, in proportion as there is a due supply of food, and the food is duly assimilated. Smith then shows that this statement of its action and application cor- responds with the instinctive habits of mankind, and when it is taken by the ill-fed it acts beneficially by promoting the digestion of the starchy food and by supplying warmth. The author also referred to coffee, and stated that its action upon the excretion of carbon and nitrogen is nearly the same as (perhaps less than) that of tea ; but it differs in lessening the action of the skin. It thus saves heat, and is more suited to persons and conditions in which the skin acts too freely. It often acts upon the bowels. In reference to alcohols, the author stated— I. That alcohol is not the only valuable element in spirits, wine, and beer, and is not prescribed in place of these compounds. i. Each kind of alcohol is selected according to the case, and is known to have its own special action, both as a curative and a morbific agent. He then noticed the effects of the various spirits upon the conscious- ness, senses, muscles, heart, skin, mucous membrane, salivary glauds, and respiration, and found that the action commences within three minutes, attains its maximum in about forty minutes, and continues nearly two hours. The sequence of the phenomena are as follows : 1. Upon the heart. 2. Upon the brain with consciousness, mental and sensual perception. 3. Upon the cerebro-spinal tract. 4. Upon the respiratory tract. 5. Upon the sympathetic system. Brandy and gin lessen the quantity of carbon evolved ; whilst alcohol, rum, and ale, increase it. Whisky varies in its action. The essential action of alcohol is to lessen the action of the skin and to increase the force of the heart, whilst the effect upon the respiration is not a principal result. It lessens waste of heat, and, therefore, of food. The aromas of wines lessen respiratory changes ; whilst the gluten and sugar of beer increases them. Alcohol is fitted for cases in which it is desirous to increase the force of the heart and to lessen the dispersion of heat by the skin. Aromas have an opposing or modifying action, and are fitted for cases of excessive vital action. Beers are especially suited to those who have deficient powers of assimi- lation, as well as defective force of the heart. The author then showed that the actions of alcohol and tea are directly opposed to each other, but that those of coffee and alcohol to a great extent agree. Beers, by their power of promoting assimilation of food, so fur agree