GENITO-URINARY SYSTEM. 107 generation of alcohol, and its presence in the fermented product. As the diminution of density must be proportional to the quantity of sugar trans- formed by the ferment, the amount of loss supplies a means of calculating how much sugar any urine contains, always provided that the remaining ingredients of the urine are unchanged, or become changed in some uniform ratio. To ascertain the relation between the density lost by fermentation and the sugar destroyed, experiments were made on the urine of diabetic patienfs in the following manner:—ist. The amount of sugar present was ascertained by the volumetric method. 2. The density of the urine was taken. 3. Three or four ounces were fermented with a drachm or two of German yeast, and the density, after the fermentation process had ceased, a second time taken, and the difference calculated. The accuracy of this method was further tested by operating on diabetic urine diluted with known volumes of water, or non-saccharine urine, and solutions of loaf sugar in water, and in healthy urine. The following rule expresses the result of the experiments :—Each degree of " density lost" indicates one grain 0/sugar per fluid ounce of urine. J. LoWENTHAL.—Remarks on Fehling's Liquid. Erdm. Journ., vol. Ixxvii, p. 336. Canst, vol. i, p. 198. It has been frequently observed that Fehling's liquid, after being kept for some time, cannot be boiled along with any free organic acid without giving a precipitate of the sub-oxide of copper, and consequently the solution, unless freshly prepared, is not always to be depended upon in making a quantitative analysis of sugar. Lbvventhal proposes an improve- ment in the mode of preparing this standard solution. As the oxide of iron, in the presence of carbonate of soda, is reduced by grape sugar, it is easy to understand how the still more easily reducible oxide of copper will act under the same circumstances. Having found that if the caustic soda in Fehling's liquid be replaced by the carbonate of soda, the solution may be kept for more than a year without giving any deposit of sub-oxide of copper, either when boiled alone or with acetic acid, Lowenthal recommends the standard solution for the analysis of sugar to be made by mixing together— Tartaric acid .... 3 ounces = 6 loth. Carbonate of soda . . . 18 „ =36 „ Sulphate of copper . . . 1 ,, = 2 ,, Water 1.761 pints = 1 litre. R. Sciimeisser.—Researches on a Urine containing Tyrosin. Archiv d. Pharm., Oct., 1859, p. 11. Canst, vol. ii, p. 77. The urine in this case was obtained from a patient who died in a few days from acute atrophy of the liver. The urine was acid, yellow, clear, without sediment, and of 1020 specific gravity. Neither albumen, bile- pigment, biliary acids, nor sugar, could be detected in it. When a portion of the urine was treated with acetate of lead solution, and the excess of the salt of lead removed by sulphuretted hydrogen, and filtration, the clear liquid, on evaporation, yielded a large quantity of needle-shaped crystals. The crystals had neither taste nor smell, were insoluble in alcohol and ether, but soluble in warm water, in ammonia, fixed alkaline solutions, and in the mineral acids. In acetic acid, on the other hand,