REBOOT ON PKACTICAL MEDICINE. 226 increase of the ulcer ho attributes to the gastric juice acting upon its surface. The pain of gastric ulcer seems to him of neuralgic character, and not to he explained by the size, or depth, or seat of the ulcer, but to depend mainly on the natural susceptibility of the sufferer. Sanderson.—On Diphtheritic Sore Throat. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. i860. After describing the structure of tlie mucous membrane, Dr. Sander- son observes that having " to do with two distinct structures in tlie mucous membrane proper, and a third in intimate relation with it, viz., the sub-mucous tissue, we should expect to be able to distinguish three corresponding series of pathological results of exudation," viz., the catarrhal, croupous, and submucous. He distinguishes concrete exuda- tions affecting the mucous membrane into («) the true fibrinous, (b) the granular or amorphous. Such exudations either on its surface, or m its substance, form the essential lesions of the mucous membrane in (1) superficial sloughing of the mucous membrane; (2) superficial true croupous concretion; and (3) superficial granular concretion. Several illustrative cases are given with observations on the minute anatomy of the diseased states. In his next paragraph the author proceeds to show that the 3 states above mentioned correspond generally to those varieties of the disease distinguished by authors as the croupous, the ulcerative, and the simple forms of pellicular sore throat. The croupous angina is the true diptherite of Bretonneau (croup descendant of many other authors), a disease which generally commences in the pharynx or fauces, rarely in the larynx, and is marked by the tendency to extend rapidly downwards; it is not accompanied by any constitutional symptoms, and if fatal, invariably destroys its victim by suffocation. The purely ulcerative epidemic sore-throat is more rare than the other two; Dr. Sanderson has had the opportunity of studying an epidemic affecting nearly 1000 persons, in which by far the greater number of mild cases were entirely of this character. Destructive ulceration of the membrana propria, when it exists in its most intense form, gives rise to that kind of sore throat designated angina maligna or gan- grenosa, but between this and the trivial lesion just described every degree of ulceration is met with. The third variety of lesion of the mucous membranes—the granular superficial infiltration of the epithe- lium—characterises in its simple form the moBt common cases of epidemic sore-throat, those in which the tonsils, uvula, soft palate, and neighbouring parts are covered with a soft or at all events never tough or leathery coating, having little or no tendency to extension. These cases usually do well under any or no treatment. The same deposit is, however, met with in fatal cases. In angina gangrenosa the symptoms are those of purulent infection, not of tlie adynamia of fatal diphtheria. Respecting the relation of albuminuria to diphtheritic sore throat, Dr. Sanderson controverts the opinions of M. Bouehut and Dr Wade The former states, that albuminuria m diphtheria is a sign of commencement of purulent infection, and coincides with a very great rrravity of the disease. Dr. Sanderson gives a brief record of 8 cases, hi one or two of which albumen existed 11. large quantities m the urine, although the disease was luild. In one case the urine was found