plfl REPORT ON SURGERY. 3. PARACENTESIS. ERICH8EN.—Perineal Emphysema, spreading to the Upper Parts of the Body, from Puncture of the Bladder through the Rectum for Retention. Lancet, Jan. 28t.l1, p. 89. Tatum.—Perineal Emphysema, spreading to the Upper Parts of the Body. Lancet, Jan. 28th, p, 90. In both these cases the bladder was tapped through the rectum, to relieve retention from impermeable stricture. In Erichsen's patient the emphysema appeared on the seventh day, and at the autopsy the gas which escaped from the cellular tissue of the anus had a feculent odour. The opening between the bladder and rectum was observed to be valvular. In Tatum's patient the emphysema appeared on the next day after the operation. 4. DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. (a) Cancer. Russell, James.—Cases of Malignant Disease of the Bladder. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 4th, p. 84. Luke.—Cancer of the Bladder. Med. Times and Gaz., March 24th, p. 292. A medullary cancer of the trigone, as large as half an egg, was found after death in the bladder of an old man who had suffered from profuse hsematuria during the last nine months of his life. His kidneys and ureters were sacculated and dilated. Watson, Hekon.—Case of Cancer of the Bladder. Edin. Med. Journ , June, p. 1093. (b) Stone. 1. Remarkable Calculi. Hall.—A Bundle of Fine Hairs, two inches long, growing from the Walls of the Female Bladder, and covered with Crystals of Triple Phosphate ; Successful Bemoval by Dilatation of the Urethra. Lancet, Nov. ioth, p. 461. These hairs appeared to have grown from the mucous membrane of the bladder; bulbs were distinctly visible in about one third of them. Hamilton.— Case of Enormous Urinary Calcidus. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Sept. 1, p. 259. The stone completely filled the bladder; it could be felt above the pubes and through the rectum ; it weighed three quarters of a pound, and was in great part composed of triple phosphate. No operation for its removal was practicable, and the patient, a man, £et. 27, died two years after the commencement of bladder symptoms. Browne, J.—Case of Enormous Vesical Calculus. Dub. Hosp. Gaz. This stone weighed about four ounces and one fifth, and was removed from a man, set. 60, after death. Bhodie, Sir B., and Lawuexcb, W.—Cases of Calculi mixed with Teeth, JInir, §-c. Med.-Chir. Trans., pp. 109 —112.