REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. tlic urine, the cause is not to bo looked for in an alteration of the blood, but of the kidneys, especially of their cortical substance. He shows that the dropsical effusions in heart disease contain more solid matter than those of acute M. Brightii, and the latter more than those of the chronic form. Godard, E.—Researches on Fatty Encroachment on the Kidney. Gaz. M&L do Paris, 25 and 26. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 202. < Godard describes particularly the encroaching growth of adipose tissue, attendant upon obstruction of the ureter by a calculus, which penetrates between the mucous membrane and pyramids, and occasions gradual atrophy of the kidney. Oppolzer.—Treatment of Bright's Disease. Clinique Em-op. 13. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 202. Oppolzer attaches most importance to a judicious dietetic regimen in the acute stage of the disease. If inflammatory or convulsive compli- cations appear he resorts to v. s., or in the commencement of the latter to chloroform inhalation, stopping short of complete narcotism. He also uses cold affusion to the head. He has found no benefit from the administration of acids, except in one case of infiltration of mine. Richardson.—On Uramia. Brit. Med. J., Nov. 10th. Richardson bebeves that in urajmic poisoning an ammonia-compound accumulates in the blood and causes the narcotism, &c. The breath contains an excess of ammonia, except in cases where the compensatory eliminative function of the lung has become suppressed. Richardson ascribes the fatal asphyxia to the influence of ammonia in arresting the capacity of the venous blood for absorbing- oxygen. When uraemic symptoms are urgent, Richardson advises v. s., wliich will remove some of the poison, diminish internal congestion, and liberate secretion. Purging and diaphoresis are also advisable. Herrmann.—On the Influence of Dilution of the Blood on the Secretion of Urine. Virch. Archiv., Vol. xvii. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 67. Herrmann's results were that so long as the composition of the blood plasma is not essentially altered by the exit of certain materials from the blood cells, the mine contained no albumen. When a greater degree of dilution was effected albumen passed into the urine, but always along with blood pigment. Herrmann regards this albumen as derived from the blood cells, and not from the scrum, on the ground of its amount of iron. Schwartz—Ok Morh. Brightii; Affection of the Kidneys in connection with Typhus. Beitrage zur Heilkundc herausgegebene, v. d. Ges. pract. Aerzte zu Riga, iv, 2. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 203. Schwartz describes this state as originating either from retention of urine inducing pyelitis and small abscesses in the kidney, or from the hyperemia of the typhus passing into exudation and true Morb. Bright. The two forms may be combined, as in a case he gives.