rSYCIIIATKIK. 183 the insane, and the latter has mostly acted as an exciting cause by operating on " already prepared and smouldering elements of disease." Dr. Chapon, at the Kind's County Lunatic Asylum, lays much stress on the adulteration of alcoholic liquors as a cause of insanity, even among '.hose who are habitually temperate. The report of the Mount Hope Institution considers it to be a fallacy to object to lunatics being asso- ciated with lunatics, ff The delusions under which the insane labour, are sometimes corrected and dissipated by the sallies of wit and repartee of their fellow patients." The report from the Indiana Hospital remarks, " the effect of spiritualism upon the mind and body is almost irredeemably ruinous." The followers of this delusion (who are of all grades of intellect) exhaust in their " sittings the nervous system. The report of the Missouri Asylum strongly recommends proper indi- vidualised treatment, in other words, the influence of the sane mind acting beneficially on the insane. The peculiarities of each individual patient should be studied, and the moral treatment adapted to them. Skae.—Contributions to the Natural History of General Paralysis. Edin. Med. J., April, i860. Skae describes, at considerable length, the affection termed general paralysis, which he considers to be incurable. With respect to its pathology, he states that, in a very large proportion of cases, traces of chronic inflammatory action are found in the membranes of the brain, viz., thickening and milky opacity of the arachnoid membrane, gelatinous thickening of the pia mater, or serous effusion into the sub- arachnoid cellular tissue or pia mater. In old cases, the serous effusion is often very great, so as to cause shrinking of the cerebral convolu- tions—in short, a general atrophy of the brain. The grey matter of the convolutions is softened, more or less congested, and very frequently firmly adherent to the membranes. Its nucleated cells are found, with the microscope, enlarged, and generally irregular in form compared with healthy structure. The white cerebral matter is very frequently tougher and harder than usual, in some cases remarkably so. In others it is soft, and sometimes the fornix, sept, lucidum, and commissures are quite diffluent. The ventricles commonly contain much fluid, and their lining membrane is often studded with minute points. His observations are by no means confirmatory of Austin's, relative to the connection between the pupil affected and the character of the mental symptoms. He finds, also, that the proportion of males to females is much greater than that stated by Austin. Saxtlus.—On the Increase of Mental Disorders, and their Connection with the Sexual Functions and Diseases of the Generative Apparatus Ilenke's Ztschr., xxxix, 3, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol 106 P- 333- The general results at which Santlus arrives from his examination of the subject arc, that the three great causes which impair the pro- ductive faculty in men, are also the main causes of increasing mental aberration—viz., increasing corrupt sexual indulgence, increasing- abuse of narcotics (among which he includes tea, coffee, tobacco, and snirits^ and increasing pauperism. * h