REPORT OX T1IK INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 8G (2) An epileptic patient, aged twenty-four, from his childhood ruminated salad, cabbage, and fat. Sulphate of iron, followed by tannin, with Tine. Quin. Co., and, lastly, lupulin, were useful. (3) A man of twenty- two had for eight weeks returned his food, but was subsequently cured after using wormwood tea. (4) In a female of twenty-five the symptom was transitory. (5) The last case is that of a man who at first rumi- nated only after exercise, and the more readily the less the food was masti- cated. Mental excitement prevented it ; bending the body forward greatly controlled it. The author regards the oesophagus as the original seat of rumination. A. Dumur.—On Rumination. Lausanne, 1859, 8vo. An exposition of all the phenomena that accompany rumination. The author particularly insists that the morbid variety differs essentially from that natural to the Ruminantia. He refers the former to paralysis of the abdominal portion of the oesophagus and cardiac region of the stomach. H. Koebner.—On the Changes undergone by Cane Sugar in the Alu mentary Canal. Breslaw, 1859, 8vo. The conclusions the author arrived at are—1. Cane sugar undergoes no change when left from two to four days, at 1040 Fah., in natural gastric juice obtained from a dog. 2. Neither is cane transformed into grape sugar in the living stomach. 3. Lactic acid may, after a time, be detected in a mixture of cane sugar, by means of bile which has been freed from mucus. 4. In the ileum cane is transformed into fruit sugar, at least the presence of the latter can be detected in the ileum by means of the polarizing apparatus. 5. Sugar is largely absorbed by the stomach, duodenum, and small intestines. 6. Cane sugar is partly transformed in the latter into lactic acid and fruit sugar. 7. In dogs and rabbits cane sugar occasionally passes unchanged from the intestines into the portal blood, and this is probably the reason why dogs fed on sugar excrete a smaller quantity of urea. 8. Cane sugar, even when eaten iu quantity (by dogs), does not reappear in the urine ; but, after a saccharine diet, the amount of uric acid appears to be increased. Dl VlNTSCUGAU.— On the Period required for the Transformation of\ Starch into Dextrin and Sugar by the Action of the Saliva. Venice, 1859, 8vo. When boiled starch, rendered blue by the addition of iodine, was added drop by drop to saliva, the blue colour instantly vanished ; whereas, when raw starch was employed, the colour disappeared more gradually. Sugar was traceable, the author states, in twelve seconds when the starch was boiled, but not before three minutes when it was unboiled. It may- be inferred that starchy food commences to become dextrin and sugar even in the mouth, especially as many starchy substances are taken at a temperature of more than ioo°Fah., and the saliva is itself two degrees ■warmer than arterial blood. Prof. BisciiOFF (Munich).—On the Nutrition of Man and other Animals. Archiv. Gen. de Med., Aug., i860, p. 129. J After pointing out the value of the difiercnt kinds of food, Bisciwn remarks that, if the nutritive material does not equal the loss sustained