REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 3 1. Dr. J. Mahey.—Researches on the Form and Frequency of the Pulse by means of a New " Sphygmographion," or Apparatus for Registering the Pulsations. Compt. Rend., 26th March, i860, p. 634. Dr. J. Marey.—Researches on the State of the Circulation according to the Characters of the Pulse, Indicated by a New " Sphygmographion." Journ. de la Phys., No 10, p. 241. The apparatus invented by Dr. Marey is a modification of that used and described by Vierordt. It does not weigh more than about eight ounces, and is so small that it can be carried in the pocket. For the description of its construction we must refer our readers to the original paper in the 'Journal de la Phys.,' as without the woodcut no correct idea of the instru- ment can be given. Dr. Packard (Philadelphia).—Remarks on the state of the Capillary Bloodvessels in Inflammation. Amer. Journ. Med. Scien., January, i860, p. 62. Packard observes, that the recognisable causes of inflammation are either stimuli, primarily increasing the functional activity of the part concerned, ordepressingagents,inducingthesame effect]secondarily; butthat theprecise mode in which either influence is exerted, whether directly upon the tissues or indirectly through the nerves, is not yet known. In every case, how- ever, there is a stage of exaltation of the "life-actions" of the part, and it appears to him that in it is to be found the true explanation of the dis- tension of the capillary blood-vessels. If the inflammation continue, the over-stimulated tissues are unable to dispose of the blood they have acquired ; the blood, therefore, stagnates, and blocks up the vessels ; and, as the general circulation goes on, the fresh blood coming to the part must find a passage elsewhere. Hence ensues the overfilling of the vessels in the neighbouring parts. Should the stagnation be absolute, and should it last beyond a certain time, the tissues die from want of oxygen; the interception of their supply of nutriment may also take part in causing their death. Such, the author thinks, is probably the rationale of many cases in which an inflamed part becomes gangrenous. Stagnation does not always ensue in inflammation, although the current of blood may be very much slackened ; in chronic inflammation, without suppuration, it is probable that this retardation is one of the chief constituents of the phenomena. Such a state of things might more properly, Packard con- siders, be termed permanent congestion. His views of the condition of the capillaries are nearly identical, as he himself remarks, with those Dr. Alison published many years ago, and he concludes by saying, in the language of Virchow, that they seem to him to present "the true combination of solidism and humoralism." Dr. Hood.—On the Conditions of the Blood in Mania. Trans. Roy. Med. and Chir. Soc, p. 159. Lancet, and Medical Times and Gazette, 26th May. Hood, with the assistance of Marcet, analysed the blood of six maniacal patients, during the paroxysm and in a state of convalescence, and the results led him to conclude that there is a deficiency of fibrin during the period of maniacal excitement, and a correction of the deficiency during convalescence. The six cases selected were three of " acute" and three of " recurrent mania."