288 HEPOHT OX SURGERY. the ingrowth of osteophytes into the articular cnvity) ; but Rokilansky's opinion, that they have their origin in the development of cartilage in the club-like extremities of enlarged articular appendices, and its subsequent ossification, was apparently confirmed. Scjiuii, Dr. Fit.—On Arthroxerosis, and on the Injection of Iodine for the Hydrops Articuli dependent on it, Wieu Ztschr., N. F. iii, 5. Schmidt, No. 6, p. 314, vol. 106. Sohuh recommends iodine injections in cases of long-standing synovial disease, where there is much swelling and relaxation of the ligaments, and where pain, heat, &c, have subsided. In three cases he employed successfully a mixture of one part tincture of iodine to one to four of water ; two to three ounces of this were injected, part being allowed to run out after a few minutes. Hempel, Dr.— On the so-called Malum Senile in Joints. Ugeskrift for Laeger, vol. xxx, Nos. 7 and 8. Schmidt, No. 4, p. 69, vol. 106. The author enumerates three changes to which articular cartilage is subject—the fatty, the fibrous, and the ossific. He considers it more pro- bable that ossification is preceded by fibrillation, than that it is a simple senile transformation, as commonly taught. Schleiss.— On Symptomatic Pain in the Knee, in Chronic Inflammation of the Hip-joint. H. u. Pf.'s Ztschr., 3 Reihe, vii, p. 51, 1859. Schmidt, No. 6, p. 313, vol. 106. Most of its subjects, says Schleiss, are of slender build or scrofulous. The ligameuts and muscles of such persons are more lax than of those ■whose bodies are robust, so that it may happen that, after long walking or standing, the contractility of the muscles of one thigh is impaired, and the limb, less firmly supported against the pelvis, hangs heavily from the capsular ligament, and stretches it. In consequence of this stretching, the femur drops, and presses more heavily on the unper articular surface of the tibia, and thus causes pain in the knee. Edwakds, A. M.—Remarks on Sayre's Splint for Morbus Coxarius. Edin. Monthly Jour., Dec. 1. The author describes and figures this splint, which he thinks will be found very efficient in the treatment of hip disease. Coote, Holmes.— On Disease of the Hip-joint. London Monthly Med. Rev., Sept., p. 116. Hamilton, J.—Removal of a Foreign Body from the Knee-joint. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., June 1, p. 163. In this case two cartilaginous bodies were removed from the knee- joint through a valvular incision; a third eluded extraction. The sub- sequent inflammation was slight, and the patient left the hospital a month after the operation. Feugusson.—Loose Cartilage in the Knee-joint, producing repeated attacks of Synovitis; Direct Removal; Recovery, with a Stiff Joint. Lancet, Oct. 13th, p. 358. Bloom field.—Subcutaneous Ebulsion of a Loose Cartilage from the Knee-joint. Med. Times and Gaz., June 16th, p. 399.