254 REPOBT ON PRACTICAL MEDICIN'K. came on with typhoid fever, violent burning- pain, phlegmonous in- ilarnmation, and considerable swelling, l-'rom (lie 4th to the 8th day a bluish grey pustule, as large as a bean formed on the top of the swelling, while the tumour went on enlarging, became more hard and uneven and black, while the surrounding areolar tissue inflamed extensively. As the slough became limited the fever declined, and the debility reached its greatest amount. IIuTcnrNSON.—Clinical Report on Epithelial Cancer. Med. T. and Gaz., Oct. 6th, 13th, 20th, 27th; Nov. 3rd, 10th, 24th; Dec. ist. Hutchinson gives a table of 115 cases, to which 12 others less per- fectly recorded may be added. Of the whole, 121 were men. The lower lip was the site of the disease in 113, the upper lip in 5, the angle of the mouth and part of both lips in 8. Of 102 cases whose age is stated, 1 was under 30, 8 between 30 and 40, 21 between 40 and 50, 19 between 50 and 60, 33 between 60 and 70, 15 between 70 and 80, 4 above 80 years of age. Of the 127 cases, 3 ended fatally from operations, within 10 days; 4 had return of cancer in the wound; 9 had return of cancer in the cicatrix at different periods after the opera- tion ; 5 had cancerous disease of the lymphatic glands subsequently; 3 had cancerous disease of the opposite part of the lip; while of 105 there is no further note than that the patients recovered, and left the hospital with sound cicatrices. Hutchinson advocates the removal of diseased submaxillary lymphatic glands. Tkyde.—Some Observations with reference to Sudden Death in connection with Furuncles of the Face. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Dec. ist. Tryde relates and remarks upon some cases in which phlebitis super- vened upon erysipelatoid inflammation of the skin of the face, and extended upwards through the veins of the orbit to the cavernous sinus. W, Pirrie.—Observations on Favus. Lancet, Dec. 8th, 15th. Pirrie believes that " the peculiar matter of favus is an exudation on the surface of the derma; that this exudation becomes the seat of peculiar phytaceous growths which, in the progress of development, penetrate the epidermis, and become encysted by its scales; and that the hair-follicles are not the seat of the disease, but only become secondarily affected." For this last opinion he gives, among other reasons, his observation, that a crust of short duration may lie raised from the scalp, and drawn over the hair, leaving the latter standing 111 its follicle. In Scotland, he finds it is by no means a rare disease, " being exceedingly common in Edinburgh." He concludes that it is ;i blood disorder, and that the fungus is not the sole nor the original cause of the eruption ; that many are insusceptible of it; that it is feebly contagious, and often arises independently of contagion; that struma and dirt strongly predispose to it; and that general as well as local treatment is necessary. Hardy.—Lectures on Diseases of the Sfcin. Paris, Dclahaye, 1858—1859. 2 vols. 8. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 293.