REPORT ON THB INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. i;o vision, and great prostration of strength. Three women died with these symptoms the day after drinking, by mistake, a quantity of the tincture of blood-root. When applied to the skin, no effect, beyond staining it, is observed. Dr. Wood states, however, that it produces inflammation when kept in contact with the skin. Sniffed up the nostrils, it excites violent inflammation, and if a drop of the fresh juice comes in contact with the conjunctiva, an intense congestion is the immediate result. Regarding the action of the seeds and leaves, some slight difference of opinion still exists ; Barton says the seeds act like those of the Datura stramonium, producing fever, delirium, &c. ; when chewed, the leaves produce a slightly harsh, but not acrid, taste, and some dryness of the fauces. Richard Hughes.— On the Influence of Belladonna on the Pneumo- ffastric Nerve. Brit. Med. Journ., 26th May, p. 393. Dryness of the throat and dysphagia are two of the earliest and most constant symptoms of the influence of belladonna. Hughes asks, " On what do they depend ?" The pneumogastric nerves preside alike over the muscular fibres and secreting apparatus of the alimentary canal from the fauces to the sto- mach, and, as pointed out by Bernard, if they be divided during digestion, the gastric juice ceases to flow, and the mucous membrane, from being tense and turgid, becomes withered and pale. If such be the effect of loss of pneumogastric influence on the stomach, similar phenomena— check of secretion and diminished muscular power—higher up the alimen- tary canal ought to be referred to depression of the influence of the same nerve; consequently, he says, the dryness of the throat and dysphagia caused by belladonna must result from a depressing influence exercised by it on the pneumogastric nerve. That such is the fact will further appear from a consideration of its effects on disease. Hooping-cough and asthma, spasmodic affections, in which irritation of the pneumogastric nerve is at the bottom of the phe- nomena, are both singularly under the control of belladonna and its con- geners. Valentin found constriction of the trachea and bronchial tubes follow galvanization of the pneumogastric, while, on the other hand, these tubes have been found lax, and have refused to contract under the strongest stimuli, in animals poisoned by belladonna and stramonium. In obstinate spasmodic vomiting, where the pneumogastric is the seat of the irritation, belladonna has been found very beneficial. The obstinate vomiting in pregnancy has also been cured with belladonna. Here, again, says the author, as the pneumogastric is the motor nerve of the muscular coat of the stomach, the sedative influence exercised by belladonna upon this nerve explains the phenomenon. Some further remarks are made by the same author on this subject in the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 8th Sept., p. 706. Richard Hughes.—On the Significance of the Contraction and Dilata- tion of the Pupil produced by Opium and Belladonna respectively. Lond. Med. Rev., August, p. 92. It is now well known that the muscular fibres of the iris are supplied by two distinct nerves, emanating from different divisions of the nervous system. The circular fibres of the iris receive a branch from the third