461 POISONS AND POISONING. death or of tlie dose administered, he was acquitted. The trial was re- markable for the contrariety of medical testimony as to the relative mean- ing of the words " drop " and "minim." FlFNELI..—Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium. (New York Path. Soc.,) Americ. Med. Times, N. Ser., vol. i, p. 2, July. HtJSEMANN.— Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium, ivith a favorable result. Deut. Klin., No. 13. \ 12. Animal Poisons. Tripe.—On Sausage-poisoning. Brit, and For. Rev., Jan., i860. j A — , butcher, re.-iding at Kingsland, a poor neighbourhood, sold on the" 3d, 4th, and 5th of November, 1859, sausages consisting of lean beef, pork fat, and other materials Of sixty-six persons who partook of them sixty-four were seized with symptoms of narcotico-irritant poisoning, con- sisting in burning pain of the pharynx and epigastrium, followed by vomiting and purging. The vomited matters contained much bile, and the evacuations were watery and peculiarly fetid. These symptoms were usually accompanied with prostration and giddiness, hut in the fatal case;* there was delirium and coma. The contents of the stomach and intestines 'in the fatal case, and the sausages, were examined by Dr. Letheby, but no poisonous substance was detected. Scukoter.—Fatal Poisoning by Sausages. Wiirtemb. Corr. BI., p. 29. . 13. Chloroform. BEHREND.—On the Dangers of the Inhalation of Chloroform ; their Causes, and the Rule for their Prevention. Henke, vol. xxxix, p. 3. The author arrives at the following conclusions, which are important ill a forensic point of view. When death follows the inhalation of chloroform, it may take place rapidly from paralysis of the respiratory and cardiac nerves, referable to the medulla oblongata, or more gradually and at a later period, from deficient reaction. It ought not to be had recourse to in operations of small duration unattended with much pain, because in these the advan- tage gained bears no relation whatever to the possible danger. In weakly, exhausted, or mentally depressed persons, it ought to be particularly avoided, as also in the presence of abnormal conditions of the heart, par- ticularly softening and fatty degeneration, on which account it is a proper precaution to examine carefully the condition of that organ. Chloro- form ought to be administered only by scientifically educated practitioners, and in the presence of one or two assistants, who ought also to be qualified persons. Certain previous preparations are indispensable, viz., as regards the patient, that he should not be submitted to the inhalation of chloro- form either, on the one hand, with a full stomach, or, on the other, in a condition of exhaustion and depression ; and as regards tlie administra- tion, that the means of safety which may possibly be required should be at hand, particularly the apparatus necessary for artificial respiration, the instruments for tracheotomy, volatile stimulants, &c. Chloroform ought never to be administered in a low, confined room, but a large, airv, well- veiitilated chamber must be chosen lor the purpose. The patient mus t