810 REPORT ON SURGERY. Boden'hamer, Wh.-O/i the Congenital Malformations of the Rectum and Anus. 8vo, New York, S. S. and W. Wood. This copiously illustrated book contains the bibliography, tetiology, pathology, and treatment of these affections. Ashton, J. T.—On the Diseases, Injuries, and Malformations of the Rectum and Anus. 3d edition, London, John Churchill, i860. Duigan, 0.—Cases of Fissure of the Anus. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Sept. 15th, p. 277. Duigan advocates forcible dilatation of sphincter ani, first suggested by Recamier. Rouse, Jas.—Ulceration of the Lower Extremity of the Rectum; its Varieties, Diagnosis, and Treatment. Brit. Med. Journ., May 12th, p. 356. The author describes three forms of ulceration affecting the lower end of the bowel—1st, the crack or fissure; 2d, a superficial ulcer, almost invariably coexistent with varicosity of the veins of the rectum ; 3d, an excavated ulcer situated between the external and internal sphincters. He treats the first two forms of ulcer, before they have become indolent, with mercurial ointments, but afterwards considers division with the knife to be necessary, as it is in the third form. The bowels must be regulated with a laxative, such as confection of senna, or with sulphur. Hyrtl.—Anal Cysts and Blind Hemorrhoidal Tumours. Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., v, 49, 1859. Hyrtl describes a couple of round, pea-like, whitish cysts, at the right side of the anus, from which a soft, fatty substance could be squeezed out. They were dilated, sebaceous follicles. Smith, H.—Haemorrhoids and Prolapsus of the Rectum, their Pathology and Treatment, with especial reference to the application of Nitric Acid. 2d edition, 8vo, London, John Churchill. Bryant.—Polypus of the Rectum in a Child successfully removed. Lancet, Oct. 27th, p. 410. To this case is appended another of firm, fibrous polypus, occurring iu an adult. Le Gros Clark.—Fissure in Ano. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 10th, p. 448. Clinical remarks on the diagnosis and treatment of this affeetiou. SMITH, H.—On some Points connected with the Pathology and Treatment of Prolapse of the Rectum. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 17th, P- 457- A paper read before the South Hants Medical and Chirurgical Society, in which the author distinguishes between protrusion of the mucous mem- brane alone and that of all the coats of the bowel. In severe cases he recommends deligntion, but in slighter ones the application of nitric acid, which may require to be repeated several times. Where the sphincter is relaxed, slips of the loose skin round the anus nre to be excised.