KEi'OUT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND i'OBLlC HYGIENE. 1.80 Konig. — In what way did the mortal Gunshot Wound happen to the Forester? Henke, vol. xxxix, part I. FftlOKHOPBEt—Medicolegal opinion OTI a case in which Gunshot Wound was complicated with other injuries. Casper, vol. xvi, part I. HASOHEK.—Bodily 1 Violence to a Pregnant Woman. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, pp. 17, 18, 19. Canst., vol. vii, p. 6. Case in which nbortion was supposed to be consequent on an injury to a woman in the sixth month of pregnancy. Siebenhaau.— Contributions to the Medico-legal knowledge of Injuries of the Head. Henke, vol. xl, p. 177. Vogt.—A case of Injury in a Medico-legal point of view. Schweiz. Mon. Schr., vol. iv, p. 277. Weule.—Contribution to the Medico-legal Discrimination of Injuries. Ungar. Ztschr., vol. x, p. 43. Haschek.—On cases of Injuries of the Head in their Medico-legal re- lations. Wien. Ztschr., N. F., vol. iii, p. 18. BLOOD-STAINS. Robin and Tardieu.—On the Microscopical Examinations of different kinds of Stains. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xiii, p. 416. This paper consists of a series of observations by the authors made on stains submitted to them in the course of medico-legal inquiries. The in- vestigations were of the following nature:—viz., the examination of blood- stains with reference to the question of the sex of the individual; of stains supposed to be sanguineous, but in reality fly-marks ; of spots of varnish ; of stains consisting of blood mixed M'ith epidermis and the downy hairs of a new-born infant (satisfactory proof was obtained that the garment on which the spots were found must have been in contact with the body of a fcetus immediately after birth) ; of stains presumed to be of meconium, proved to consist of expectoration; lastly, spermatic stains. In all of these cases the conclusions of the authors were derived, for the most part, from microscopic examination, and they afford a remarkable illustration of the superiority of the microscope over the older methods, as a means of appreciating all kinds of stains. V. Kletzinsky.— On certain Analytical Applications of Glycerine, and on the Jlcematosine Test. Oest. Ztschr., vol. v, p. 42. Canst., vol. vii, p. 13. Glycerine, according to the author, may be more advantageously em- ployed for the purpose of dissolving out dried remains of blood-stains than syrup, which is commonjy in use, as being liable neither to become acid nor to the development of spores of fungi, as having the property of readily soaking, penetrating fatty tissues, and as being much more readily incinerated. For this purpose the glycerine of commerce must be thoroughly pounded with one tenth of its weight of pure carbonate of