REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 386 Laborie.—History of Thrombus of the Vulva and Vayinu, particularly after Labour, $»c. Arch. Gen., December, i860. NEW INSTRUMENTS. Ptoss.— On some Expedients in Vaginal Inspection. Mon. f. Geb., April, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 186. Ploss states that the reflecting surface of the speculum in ordinary use does little towards throwing the light where it is actually required. He prefers a dark, glass speculum, which is not open to this objection: he employs with the speculum a lens. In cases where the vagina lias an unusual shape or direction, or where the vaginal portion of the uterus is of such a form as to interfere with the use of the ordinary speculum, Ploss uses a gutta-percha tube, the shape of the extremity of which can, by means of hot water, be adapted to the particular requirements of the case. Venot.—Davanseaux's " Irriyateur-obturateur Vaginal." Journ. de Bord., Sept., 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 57. In this instrument an elliptic plate closes the entrance of the vagina, and prevents the escape of the fluid, Avhich is injected through an aper- ture in the plate by means of a caoutchouc ball, capable of holding about 250 grammes of fluid. The use of this instrument ensures the contact of the fluid with the whole vaginal surface and with the vaginal portion of the uterus. PART III.—DISEASES OF CHILDREN. A. GENERAL. GENERAL TREATISES; HYGIENICS; FEEDING; STATISTICS. Prof. v. Siebold.— On the Proportions of Weight and Length of New- born Children; on the Diminution of their Weight during the first- days, and the Increase of the same in the first week after Delivery. Mon. f. Geb., May, i860, p. 337. Roger.—On the Closure of the Anterior Fontanelle. L'Union, 1859, No. 140: Med. Times and Gaz., April 21st, i860, p. 402. Roger examined the heads of 300 children, and found that the period of closure (clinically) of the anterior fontanelle is comprised between fifteen months and the age of three and a half years. The usual period is between the second and third year. Rickets and hydrocephalus retard the closure. Lederer.—On some sources of the Marasmus of Children in Early Childhood. Wien. Wohnschr., 35, 3$, '859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 203,