POISONS AND POISONING. 143 times ns much water, so that there appears to be no limit to the applica- bility of the test. Bloxam.—On the Detection of Metallic Poiso)is by means of Electro- lysis. Pharm., p. 376. The apparatus of Professor Bloxam consists of a tubulated bell-jar, the wide end of which is closed with vegetable parchment. Its mouth is fitted with a cork, through which is passed a platina wire, terminating in a plate of the same metal. Through the cork a glass conducting tube also passes, the opeu end of which scarcely projects below the cork. The bell-jar is to be half filled with dilute sulphuric acid, and plunged into a test-glass filled with the same liquid and to the same level. Another Avire, ending in a plate, is to be plunged in the outer liquid, and the two connected with a Grove's battery of five cells. In operating on organic mixtures the organic matter is to be destroyed in the usual way by chlorate of potash and hydrochloric acid, and the liquor evaporated to a syrup. Sulphurous acid is then to be added, and the excess expelled by heat. The mixture is introduced into the bottle, one drachm of alcohol is added, and the apparatus put in operation. The process is adapted for the separation of all the metals excepting lead. Antimony is almost entirely deposited on the platina plate, but arsenic is disengaged as arseniuretted hydrogen along the tube, in which a mirror can be readily obtained. Mercury, copper, or bismuth are, of course, also deposited on the plate. Guy.—New method of obtaining Crusts of Arsenic, Arsenious Acid, and other Sublimates. Chemical News, March ,31st. For obtaining crusts of arsenic or crystals of arsenious acid in medico- legal inquiries, the author proposes to substitute for the ordinary reduc- tion-tube a short and wider tube of common white glass (three quarters of an inch long), provided with a cover of common window-glass. The sub- stance to be sublimed is dropped into the tube. The sublimate is depo- sited mainly on the disk, and, if inconsiderable, the high powers of the microscope may be used for its recognition. Dr. Guy found that one thousandth of a grain of arsenious acid yielded a sublimate which could be identified with ease and certainty. Hellbb and Kletzinsky.—Finding and Opinio7is on the Chemico-legal Analysis of the remains of some Tea, and of the parts of the body of H- Ji—, a Female supposed to have died by Poison. Oest. Z., vol. v, 25, 26. Canst., vol. vii, p. 9. In this case orpiment (Hiittenrauch, a substance containing arsenious acid and sulphide of arsenic in variable proportions) was detected in the stomach. In relation to it, the authors describe their method for the detec- tion of arsenic, the peculiarity of which consists in the corpus delicti being first dissolved in hyrochloric acid. They maintain that the volatilization of chloride of arsenic only becomes appreciable when the solution in hydrochloric acid attains a temperature of 3300 Fahr., or is so concen- trated as to contain at least 20 per cent, of hydrochloric acid gas; that in difficult cases, in which minute quantities of antimony and arsenic are to be sought for, the direct testing of the hydrochloric-acid solution in Marsh's apparatus affords the most satisfactory means of proof; and that