6ECRET0RY SYSTEM. 247 Traube.—On Bacony Degeneration of the Kidneys. Deutsche Kliuik, i, 7, 8. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 203. Traube diagnoses the above state from pale, light, clear, albuminous urine concurring with traces of constit. syphilis, old disease of the bones, or chronic pulmon. tuberculosis, but consecutive to them. En- largement of the spleen or liver not the result of ague, or diarrhoea not ascribable to intestinal ulceration, strengthens the diagnosis. Hyper- trophy or dilatation of the left ventricle, if the before-named conditions exist, points also to the same conclusion. The urine may be highly albuminous, red, and heavy when the kidneys are in a state of bacony degeneration during the existence of acute pyrexia, or of considerable relaxation of the arterial system from derangements in the circulatory and respiratory appparatus. Wittich, v.—Albuminuria and the Secretion of Urine. Konigsberg. Med. Jahrb., ii, 1. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 203. The results of Wittich's experiments are opposed to those of Heyn- sius. Exosmosis of blood serum took place most freely to acid urine. Heynsius regarded the acidity of the urine as the cause of the non- escape of albumen from the blood in the capillaries. Durham.—Misplacement and Mobility of the Kidneys in reference to the Diagnosis of Abdominal Tumours. Guy's Hosp. Reports, VoL vi, p. 404. Durham has collected 10 cases in which the condition in question has been actually proved to exist by post-mortem examination; 2 of these cases under his own observation. He remarks that the left kidney is more liable to fixed misplacement than the right, but that the latter is more frequently moveable than the left. Mobility of the kidneys may be congenital, but in the majority of cases it is probably produced by tight lacing, the dragging of a hernia, frequent pregnancies, &c. It is more common in women than in men. CUTANEOUS SYSTEM, INDEX. Jordan, R. J.—Skin Diseases and their Remedies, pp. 284, London. Hebra.—Atlas of Cutaneous Diseases, ii. and iii. parts. Vienna, 1858, 1859. Ratmbert.—On Patholog. Anatomy of Malign Pustule. Journ. de Brux., Aug. 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 47. Babington.—Case of Elephantiasis, with Autopsy. Dublin Hosp. Gaz Feb. 1st, i860. "' Charcot.—On Skin Diseases dependent on Nerve Affections. J. de la Physiol., ii, Jan. 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 187.' Cummins, W. J.—On the Turkish Bath. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Feb. 1 cth March ist, March 15th, April 2nd, i860. Sigmund.—On Disease of the Hair in Syphilis. Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., v, 37, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 46. Orr.—Case of Pityriasis Rubra Acuta. Glasgow Med. J., July p 227 Van Zadelhoff.—On Ulcus Noma. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc Nov i860. "'