OCCUPATION. L89 is imported from France for this purpose. The blocks of this material are brought over in the rough state and shaped in this country, particu- larly in London, Liverpool, and other large towns, into such forms as to be fitted and cemented together into millstones, after which they still require finishing. The workmen engaged in these processes are constantly exposed to clouds of siliceous dust and fragments of grit. The author thinks that about fifty persons are employed in the trade in London, and was told by an intelligent foreman that he had known at least twenty persons die of chest affections. He details other facts iu illustration of its injurious character. Two fatal cases are recorded, of which the one affords a characteristic example of tubercular phthisis, the other of chronic bronchitis, with consequent tuberculization. In the latter instance por- tions of the indurated lung-tissue, on being ignited, left a white ash, of which the part insoluble in hydrochloric acid was found to consist of small, angular, transparent granules, exactly resembling the finer portions of the siliceous dust collected from one of the workshops, from which fact the author infers that the dust is extensively inhaled, and " tends in persons of healthy constitution to the production of chronic bronchitis and asthma, and in those inheriting a constitutional predisposition to .phthisis to the development of tubercle." As prophylactic measures, Dr. Peacock recommends that only men who have attained to maturity should be allowed to enter the trade ; that exposure to cold, indulgence in spirituous liquors, and irregular modes of life, should be specially avoided, and the workshops should be well ventilated ; that the stone should be, if possible, worked in a wet state; and lastly, that the men should wear respirators whenever exposed to the dust. Putegnat.—Diseases of the Glasseutters of Baccarat. Bulletin de l'Acad. de Med., vol. xxv, p. 31. The workers in glass and crystal are all liable to an affection of the gums, attended with the loss of the teeth and a peculiarly offensive odour, as well as to phthisis, in frightful proportions. The former affection attacks 95 in every 100 workmen, generally commencing after being three months at the occupation. Soon the gums become soft and spongy, the teeth rapidly decay and break off at the alveoli, without either pain or bleeding. The liability of both diseases M. Putegnat attributes rather to the extreme humidity and bad ventilation of the workshops than to the inspiration of dust. Schirmer— Diseases of the Miners of Grilneberg (Silesia). Ann. d'Hyg. In the coal-mines of Griineberg coal is, for the most part, won in a pulverulent condition, on which account the workmen are more subject to its mechanical agency. From the statements of Schirmer it appears that the condition of the miner in Germany contrasts strongly with the expe- rience of this country. The mines are very ill ventilated, the air is vitiated by rotten timbers, and the men are obliged to ascend and descend by ladders. Their pay is small, their dwellings wretched hovels, their diet miserable, rarely comprising meat. Owing, however, to the strict prohi- bition of all spirituous liquors, they are healthy. The principal diseases are catarrh and rheumatism.