B72 REPORT ON SURGERY. necessary. Where desirable to support the edges of the wound with plnster, the part of the strips in contact with the wound should not be more than half an inch broad. This leaves the intervals of the wound open to inspection, ensures the smallest possible contact between the wound and plaster, and leaves a free vent for discharge. Amputations.—Statistical Reports on the Principal Operations performed during the Year 1859. Med. Times and Gaz., April 28, p. 420, May 5, p. 446. These embody particulars of seventy-four amputations of the thigh, fifty-two of the leg, fifteen of one foot, two of both feet, and forty-three of the upper extremity. Messer, J. C.—Report on the Loss of Limbs, as affectiny Longevity among the Pensioners at the Royal Hospital, Greenwich. Edin. Med. Jour., October, p. 329. The author concludes that those who have lost limbs do not attain bo great an age as those who have not. Berend, II. W.—On Necrosis in Amputation Stumps. Med. Centr. Ztg., xxviii, 8, 1859. Ib. Rosenkranz.—Four Double Amputations, with some Remarks on Amputa- tion in General. Deutsche Klin., 11, 13. Schmidt, No. 10, vol. 108, p. 69. Ward.—Amputation at the Hip-joint in a Youny Child. Med. Times and Gaz., July 14, p. 34. The child was fifteen months old; its thigh had been crushed by the wheel of a dray. Hancock.—Disarticulation of the Hip-joint for Extensive Disease in the Stump, after Two previous Amputations in the Thigh; Fatal Result. Lancet, March 31, p. 319. The patient was sinking in consequence of excessive discharge from several sinuses, supposed to be connected with carious bone. Death took place on the morning following the disarticulation. Mr. Barwcll, to whom the portion of the femur was intrusted for examination, reported that the disease consisted in an exuberant outgrowth of bony tissue from the medullary canal and walls. The medullary membrane was congested, and in parts the medulla was suppurating. Ashdown.—Primary Amputation of both Feet (Pirogoff's and Cho- fart's). Recovery, with Good Slumps. (Reported, with Practical Remarks by Gray.) Med. Times and Gaz., July 7, p. 9. MASH.—Piroyofs Amputation of the Foot for Gunshot Injury; Re- covery, with an excellent Stump. Med. Times and Gaz., July 7, p. 9. Thompson, II.— Caries of the Tarsus ; Symes's Amputation ; Recurrence of Caries in the Tibia; Second Amputation; Examination of the removed Stump. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 159, August 18.