291 BONES. improvement in the treatment of coxitis and its sequelae which may be expected from time, and from the present uncertainty whether a patient walks better with an anchylosed or resected caput femoris, Billroth infers that resection in coxitis is not a very pressingly inviting operation. The case is otherwise in gunshot fractures of the neck and head of the femur, which, without operative interference, are almost always fatal. If this injury should be associated with much contusion of the soft parts, primary exarticulation of the caput femoris is the only operation of any use. Billroth recommends a long incision behind the trochanter major. Heyfelder.—Contributions to Statistics of Resections of the Hip-joint. Monatsbl. f. Med. Statistik, No. 12. Canst., vol. v, p. 215. Hensser, F.—A Review of Cases of Resection of the Knee and Hip Joints, Tibia, and Tarsus, performed by Professor F. Hensser at Hombrechticon (Canton Zurich). Beilage ziir. Deutsche Klinik, No. 10, Oct. 20. The review comprises a tabular statement of fifteen cases of resection of the knee, one of the hip, and seven of the lower tibial and tarsal articulations. Of the knee series, eight cases were perfectly cured, one underwent amputation and recovered, and six died. In the tenth and eleventh cases a second resection was resorted to, in consequence of non- union. Five years after the resection of the hip (where the head and neck and both trochanters of the femur were removed), the patient could walk eight to ten hours a day. Of the tarsal and tibial cases, four were cured, one died two years afterwards of phthisis, and in two amputation was subsequently performed, one of these terminating fatally. Heath, Chr.—A Case of Excision of Diseased and Anchylosed Knee, with Good Result. Lancet, July 7, p. 5. The disease was of six years' duration. Several sinuses led to bare bone, the patella being firmly fixed to the outer condyle of the femur, and the femur to the tibia. Heath removed the whole joint in a wedge. The boy, set. n\, made a good recovery. Curling.—Excision of the Knee-joint ; Amputation four months later ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 17, p. 479. Amputation was performed in consequence of the child's health failing. No bony union had occurred. There were open sinuses and extreme pain. A detailed account of the appearances of the parts after amputation is appended. Tapp.—Excision of the Knee-joint. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 10, P- 457- A case of strumous disease, of one year's duration. The child, a girl, set. 9, made an excellent recovery. Quain, Mr.—Disease of the Knee-joint ; Arthritis; Amputation; Rapid Recovery from the Operation. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 22 p. 609. Soimr, Solly, Le Gros Clark, Stmon.— Six cases of Excision of the Knee-joint, performed in St. Thomas's Hospital, 1859, followed by Recovery in Five, Lancet, Aug. 4, p. 108. *