REPORT ON T11K INSTITUTES OE MEDICINE. 88 potatoes, &o.| sugar was found in the l)lood of the right side of the heart nnd in equal quantity in blood from the carotid. 4th. In three rabbitB, fed on vegetables, sugar was found in the blood withdrawn during life from the right side of the heart; but double, and in one instance more than treble, the amount was found in the blood removed from the same locality after the animals were killed. Hence, says M'Donnell, one seems in some degree justified in con- cluding that in vegetable-eating animals the blood is normally saccharine ; but that the liver does not form and pour out into the blood of the hepatic vessels sugar specially derived from the transformation of the amyloid substance. Behthelot and De Luca.—Researches on Sugar formed from Hepatic Glucogene. Compt. Rend., vol. xlix, p. 213. By combining liver sugar -with chloride of sodium (common salt), Berthelot and De Luca have succeeded in obtaining large, colourless, transparent crystals, the watery solution of which ferments with yeast, and reduces the oxide of copper. The composition of the crystals, as ascertained by analysis, is represented by the accompanying formula— 2012H12b12, 2HO + NaCl. The authors conclude therefrom that liver sugar is not only exactly the same as that found in diabetic urine, but also that it is identical with the BUgar of the grape. Dr. Harley.—On the Saccharine Function of the Liver. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 38, p. 289. Lancet, 20th October, p. 386. Harley relates a number of experiments which he performed along ■with Sharpey on animals, under a variety of different conditions. The results obtained, he says, prove that, if proper precautions be taken, sugar may always be detected in the blood of a healthy animal during digestion, and that the liver is one of the seats of its formation. The author sums upliis results in the following terms : 1. Sugar is a normal constituent of the blood of the general cir- culation. 2. The portal blood of an animal fed on mixed diet contains sugar. 3. The portal blood of a fasting animal, as well as of an animal fed solely on flesh, is devoid of sugar. 4. The livers of healthy dogs con- tain sugar, whether their diet be animal or vegetable. 5. Under favorable circumstances, and with proper precautions, saccharine matter may be found in the liver of an animal (a dog) after three entire days' rigid fasting. 6. The sugar found in the bodies of animals fed on mixed diet is partly derived directly from the food, partly formed in the liver. 7. The livers of animals restricted to flesh diet possess the power of forming glucogene, which glucogene is, at least in part, transformed into sugar in the liver. 8. As sugar is found in the liver at the moment of death (even when the plan of freezing it has been strictly attended to), its presence cannot properly be ascribed to a post-mortem change, but is to be regarded as the result of a natural condition. Bernard.—On the Glucogene of the Liver. L'Union Med., No. 35, BeraarcUpenks (1) of the discovery of glucogene; (2) of the mode of preparing it; (3) of its varieties in different classes of animals; (4) ot its properties ; and (5), of its origin.