WOUNDS. 267 2. Gangrene. Gjioii, Dr.—On Hospital Gangrene. Wien Med. Ztschr., 35—38, 1858. Schmidt, No. 5, vol. 106, p. 198. Groh ascribes the origin of hospital gangrene mainly to epidemic influences, amongst which sudden changes of temperature take an impor- tant place. Next to pysemia, exhausting haemorrhages are the most unfavorable complication. Of fifty-nine patients affected with this disease, seven only died, four of these of pyaemia, the other three during convales- cence (one of tuberculosis, one heart disease, one pleuro-pneumonia). The treatment consisted in free ventilation, constant fumigations, the removal of all infected matters, the destruction of the phagedenic surfaces with chloride of calcium or mineral acid, and the exhibition of stimulants. IIandyside.—Case of Traumatic Spreading Gangrene after severe Compound Fracture of the Leg, for which Amputation beneath the Trochanter was performed, and the Arteries secured by four Acu- pressure Needles ; the Femoral Artery, at its giving off the Profunda Branch, ivas relieved from Pressure at the forty-ninth hour after the Operation; with Recovery, and Remarks. Edin. Med. Jour., Dec. 1, p. 504. 3. Tetanus. Skey.—A Clinical Lecture on Tetanus. Lancet, July 7th, p. 1. Tetanus, its recent Prevalence in the London Hosjritals. Med. Times and Gaz., July 14, p. 34. Brochin.—On Curara in Tetanus. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 142. A notice of three cases of traumatic tetanus, occurring in the French military hospital in Turin during the late Italian campaign, two of which were fatal, and one recovered under the administration of curara; even in the fatal cases, calmness and muscular relaxation followed its use. Gin tea c . Case of Traumatic Tetanus unsuccessfully treated by Curara. Ib., p. 148. Farrage.—Two Cases of Idiopathic Tetanus treated by Indian Hemp. Lancet, Sept. 15th, p. 262. Stanley.—Reduction of Compound Dislocation of the Ankle-joint; Heath Jrom Tetanus on the eighth day after. Lancet, Aug. 18th, p. 162. Mohgax.—Acute Traumatic Tetanus from Wound of the Foot; Recovery under the use of Tincture of Aconite. Lancet, Aug. i8th, p. 162 A boy pricked the ball of his foot with a rusty nail, August soth, 18'8 .v ptember 6th,—Stiffness about neck and lower jaw. 12th,—Unabteto open his month ; back stiff. 16th,—Well-marked rigidity of muscles of the neck and jaws; risus sardonicus. Strychnine, one tenth of a grain every two hours, was given, soon diminished to one twentieth of a drain and a hard scar in the sole of the foot was excised. The symptoms in- creased ; general spasm and opisthotonos began. 20th,—Aconite was now