370 EBPOM Oy MIDWIFERY, ETC. formntion, nnd anatomical sent of spontaneous peri-uterine hematocele as distinguished from that of accidental or traumatic origin. He is of opinion that, although the occurrence of the spontaneous form, irrespective of conception, may still he admitted, yet in the majority of cases it is far from heing frequent or ordinary. It appears to he produced hy a mechanism which does not in any way differ from that which holds good m the case of extra-uterine pregnancies : the only difference heing, that the ovule, which is fecundated in one case, is not in the other. When conception does not occur, the spontaneous hematocele results from an incomplete or defective migration, whether of the ovule or of the hlood which flows from the ovary after the dehiscence of the Graafian vesicle. The hypothesis thus propounded accords, it is contended, with all the facts observed on the subject. In proof of this statement, several cases and observations are cited. The diagnosis, treatment, &c, of the affection are then systematically discussed. Aran.—On Peri-uterine Inflammation; Symptoms and Treatment. Bull, de Ther., July, August, 1859. A good resume of the symptoms and treatment. Fallopian Tubes. Prof. Sijipson.—On Dropsy and other Diseases of the Fallopian Tubes. Med. Times and Gaz., June 30th, i860. The author considers —1, displacements; 2, hypertrophy; 3, fibroid tumours; 4, carcinoma; 5, tuberculosis ; 6, inflammation; 7, haemor- rhage ; 8, dropsy of the Fallopian tubes. Vocke. — Case of Salpingitis puerperalis. Preuss. Ver. Ztg., iii, p. 4. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 54. Foeuster.—On Peritonitis, the result of Purulent Inflammation of the Fallopian Tubes. Wien. Wohnschr., 1859, 44,45. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 52. Inflammation may affect the Fallopian tuhes in three forms:—1. It proceeds directly from the abdominal entrance of the Fallopian tube to the neighbouring peritoneum. This form is very common: it is produced by ordinary catarrhal inflammation of the raucous membrane of the tube. Adhesions of the tube to the surrounding piirts are the result of it. When the peritonitis exists on both sides, sterility results. 2. Forma- tion of pus and ulceration of the wall of the tube, and discharge of the pus into the abdomen. This occurs but seldom, and almost always during the puerperal state. The author observed two cases in which this accident occurred in the non-puerperal state. 3. The pus formed in the tube passes through the orifice of the latter directly into the abdomen. This occurs more rarely than either of the other varieties. It would appear that such effusion of pus produces peritonitis at the point of escape. Tbe escape of the pus from the tube results from relaxation of the fibres around the mouth of the Fallopian tube; or, as Martin believes, in con- sequence of pressure from without on the distended tube. Siuedey.—On the f requency of Alterations of the Uterine Appendages in Affections called lTterine. 4to, Paris, i860, Dclahaye, pp. 141.