93 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. (<j) that during the fermentation of milk-sugar no hydrogen is evolved (Pasteur says there is) ; (6) that the acid reaction of fresh normal milk is due neither to the presence of free phosphoric acid nor of acid phos- phates (Lehmann), hut to an organic acid which is, in all probability, lactic acid. (7) Hoppe made several analyses of the gases contained in milk, but the results varied so much that they cannot be looked upon as satisfactory ; however, it may be said that in general milk contains about 3 per cent, by volume of gas, the greater part of which is carbonic acid ; very little nitrogen, and no oxygen, was detected. (8) Fresh milk (cow's) absorbs oxygen from the air, and gives off carbonic acid; (9) the quan- tity of carbonic acid exhaled is greater than the amount of oxygen absorbed. (10) A certain quantity of fat is formed during the process of the absorption of oxygen and the exhalation of carbonic acid gas; and (11) in all probability the formation of the fat depends upon the decom- position of the casein. Dr. Gibb.—On Saccharine Fermentation ivithin the Female Breast, and its Influence on the Child. Meeting of Brit. Association, Oxford. Lancet, 7th July. Brit. Med. Journ., 14th July, p. 548. In 1853, Vogel announced the discovery of vibriones in human milk, which he believed to be the result of fermentation. From 1854 to the present time Gibb has examined many specimens of milk, and has occa- sionally found two genera of animalcules present in that secreted in the glands of those whose general health is out of order from various causes. The two varieties of animalcules are found at various periods of lactation, but not in the same individual. They consist of vibriones and monads. The milk is always neutral or alkaline (never acid), and well supplied with sugar. The children fed with the milk are, as a rule, badly nou- rished, often greatly emaciated, and die of inanition, unless their food be changed. The act of fermentation, the author considers, is solely due to the sugar; and the rapidity with which he has observed the milk become sour out of the body is, he thinks, an argument in favour of intra-mammary fermentation. Dr. Hare.—On a Case of Secretion of Milk from the Bight Axilla. Lancet, 27th Oct., p. 405. Tn Hare's case there was a swelling in the axilla about the size of half a walnut. A month after the woman was delivered, the swelling began to discharge a small quantity of milk through a very minute opening in the skin. The discharge at the time the patient was last seen (seven months after it began) still continued. The fluid possessed the micro- scopical and chemical characters of milk. PANCREAS. W. Turner, M.B. (Lond.)—On the Employment of Transparent Injec- tions in the Examination of the Minute Structure of the Human Pancreas. Micros. Journ., July, p. 147. Turner investigated the relations of the minute ducts to the ultimate gland-follicles of the human pancreas, by means of a series of injected preparations. These he obtained by forcing transparent injections through