KF.rOKT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 2G2 faradising the phrenic nerves after Other means had failed. Saurel and Curling, cases of (esophageal constriction and delir. tremens, in which chloroform internally proved curative. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 174. A case is recorded of the poisonous effect of sewer gases on a labourer employed in making a drain. The symptoms were delirium, icteric coloration, epistaxis, prostration. The disease did not resemble typhus or typhoid. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 177. Glycerole of Lead is formed by mixing 1 dram of powdered cam- phor with 13^ oz. of glycerine, dissolving it, and adding %\ oz. of liq. plumbi diacet. Rilliet, Boinkt, Ricord, Bouciiardat, Piorry, CiiATix. — On Consti- tutional Iodism, and the Administration of Iodine. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 295. Rilliet distinguishes 3 kinds of iodine-poisoning, which may be vari- ously blended. The first is characterised by an acute irritation of the digestive canal, induced by large doses of preparations of iodine. The second is marked by various nervous disorders, derangements of the secretions, and skin eruptions, with which may be associated atrophy of the mammae and testicles. The third is a peculiar cachexia, induced by very small, almost infinitesimal, doses of iodine, as even the minute amount contained in sea air, or 01. Morrh. Its most marked features arc rapid emaciation, increase of appetite, and nervous palpitation of the heart. Boinet, on the contrary, from the use of iodized bread, has observed no emaciation, but rather the reverse. Ricord, Chatin, Piorry, doubt of the effect of iodine hi producing cachexia. Bouchardat lays stress on Rilliet's remark, that constit. iodism especially occurs in the goitrous, and explains thereby its infrequency in Paris. IIaller.—Notes on Coca. Wien. Ztschr. N. F. hi, 28, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 28. ITallen says, the chemical action of coca leaves appears to resemble that of wine and tea, as it diminishes considerably the natural decay of the tissues. It resembles Indian hemp in causing dilatation of the pupils, opium in its power of increasing the forces of the exhausted system, and in its peculiar psychical action. Jaffe.—Hypnotism or J3raidism in its relations to Medicine, Surgery, Physi- ology, and Mesmerism. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 238. Jaffe, after an historical notice of Braidism, relates the experience^ of several observers who have tried it, and concludes that the state in- duced is one of sopor, characterised by catalepsy or blunting of the sensory powers, which mostly can only be produced in hysterical females. He does not think it can ever replace chloroform, but may however be useful as a means of calming certain pains in the genera- tive organs.