427 WOUNDS AND INJURIES. FITS.*..—Remarkable Case of Traumatic Inflammation of the Sinuses of the Skull. A Contribution to the Diagnosis of Injuries of the Head. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, p. i. The injuries consisted in sabre wounds involving the periosteum, and penetrating the bone at the left temple and mastoid process. Daring the first four weeks, slowness of pulse was the only cerebral symptom. At the end of that period, sudden acceleration of the pulse, pyaemia, lobular pneumonia, phlebitis of the internal jugular, and death in three days. Three of the wounds were cicatrized, but the fourth was still open, and at the root of the mastoid process there was a loss of substance as large as a bean. This wound was covered with gray pus and finely granular exu- dation, and the hone was roughened around the neighbouring vena emissaria. The dura mater of the basilar process was covered with a layer of exudation ; the left sigmoid and petrosal sinuses and both cavernous sinuses were filled with pus. There was, thus, purulent infection of the cerebral blood, by direct entrance of the pus from the wound into the neighbouring transverse sinus, through the vena emissaria mastoidea. Taudieu.—Medico-Legal Study on Ill-Usage and Maltreatment of Children. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xiii, p. 361. This paper is devoted to the injuries inflicted on children by parents, schoolmasters, and others. The injuries are various, inflicted by the hand or fist, or by instruments of every imaginable kind. The victims are usually children of tender age ; of the cases related, seventeen of the sub- jects were under five years, seven under ten, four between eleven and fourteen, and in two cases the cruelties had continued till the age of seventeen. In twenty-four cases they were inflicted by the parents, in four by schoolmasters, and in one by a mistress on an apprentice. The poor children exposed to ill-treatment were pale and emaciated, and exhi- bited the aspects of precocious decrepitude ; but it was wonderful to observe how rapidly they recovered when removed from the charge of their tormentors. Of the thirty-two cases, eighteen terminated fatally ; in some, death was the direct result of a single act of violence ; in others, the child died during the act of cruelty, death occurring by the mere effect of the ill-treatment without any necessarily mortal wound. Such are the cases of prolonged flogging of which, in addition to one recorded by himself, the author cites two others (" Considerations Med. Lc'g. sur deux cas assez cares d'Aberration mcntale," Ann. d'Hyg. 1853) related by M. Toulmouche. In a third category are included the cases in which privations of all kinds induced a gradual constitutional exhaustion, terminating in death or a fatal disease. The paper is accompanied by a collection of observations, of which the first series contains cases of mere ill-treatment; the second, cases of ill-treatment accompanied with horrible tortures, not fatal; the third, fatal cases. Takdieu.—Observations and Experiments on Combustion of the Human Body, and on Gun-shot Wounds. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xiii, p. 124. In April, 1859, a man was found in his house supposed to be murdered. He had received a gun-shot wound in the region of the heart, and the clothes covering the chest were on fire. The hands were also severely burnt. It was suggested that the fire had been kindled by the powder, and that the weapon had been discharged at a very short distance. With