413 MEDICINE. Quinic Ether Inhalations in Ague. (Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., 22.) Canst. Jahrb., vol. iv, p. 72.—Groh states that a scruple of this ether, inhaled during the cold stage, cut short the attack and prevented its return in eleven cases. Bonnafont and Sprengler have found inhalation of sulphuric ether also successful, and Whitehorn in America obtains the same result with chloroform. Epileptoid Intermittent Fever. (Journ. de Med. de Bruxelles, Jan., Feb.) Canst. Jahrb., vol. iv, p. 84.— Liegey has observed cases of eclamptic or epileptic intermittent fever. In the more chronic and apyretic form the disorder may easily be taken for epilepsy. It yields to quinine. Pommade for Acne. (Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 168.) — Rodet. R> Axungise, Jxij; Sulph. Sublimati, Tannini, im 5j ; Aquae Laurocerasi, 5j-M. ' Pumpkin Seeds in Taenia Solium. Lancet, Aug. 18th.—Tarneau di- rects ten drachms of the seeds, freed from their husks, to be made into an electuary with sugar and milk, and given to the patient, previously purged and kept on a low diet. A dose of castor oil two hours after. On the Treatment of Alcoholism. (Med. Zeit. Russland, 1859, No. 8.) Med. Times and Gaz., July 28th.—Smirnoff administers to habitual drunkards a glass of strong infusion of Asarum Europseum and of Vale- rian three or four times a day. The Asarum improves the appetite, supports the general power, and counteracts the invincible longing for alcohol. Dyspepsia. (Journ. de Med. et Chir. pratique.) Edin. Med. Journ., Feb., i860. —Beau's treatment of dyspepsia excludes almost absolutely narcotics, starvation, confinement to bed, and bloodletting. If there is gastric derangement he gives an emetic. Repeated blisters are useful to remove pains. Ice often arrests vomiting. Flatulence is treated with charcoal and magnesia (calcined). A solid diet will sometimes arrest vomiting, which is persistent with a liquid. Sulphurous baths, hydro- pathy, travelling, are often advantageous. Citric Acid in Acute Rheumatism. (Ann. M6d; de Flandre Occid.) Edin. Med. Journ., Jan., i860.—In forty-five cases of rheumatic fever Hartung gave citric acid to the amount of six drachms in from fifteen to thirty-six hours. In all the cases but two the result was very favorable. The affected parts were enveloped in wadding, and the patients were allowed to drink water freely. Typhoid Fever. (Bull. Gen. de Therap., June 30th, 1859.) Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., i860.—In the treatment of typhoid fever after purgation, at the outset, Monneret gives ice internally," and applies it to the abdomen, and in the second week administers quinine. Opiated Colchicum Wine in Rheumatism. (Bullet, de Therap., tome 5<5» P- 75-) Mpd- Times and Gaz., April 14th.—Eisenmann praises as pre-eminently efficacious in the treatment of rheumatism and cold-excited disorders (rheumatoid) a combination of Vin. Colch. 5xij, Tr. Opii, 5H.