PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OP FOOD, ETC. 65 chanical and galvanic stimuli. Lastly, the ventricles pass into a state of permanent contraction. Harvey.—An Experimental Inquiry into the Mode of Death produced by Aconite. Meet, of Brit. Association, Oxford. Lancet, July 7th. Harvey states that aconite acts first on the nerves, and then on the muscles, and that it stops the action of the heart. The experiments were made upon dogs, rabbits, and frogs, and the aconite was given in the form of Fleming's Tincture. Bernard.—Lect. XXVII. On Muscular Poisons. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 29th. There exist poisons which abolish directly contractility in the muscu- lar tissue. In this class are digitalis, upas antiar, and two"other substances known by the Indian names of Carrowal and Wao. The active principle of the yeratrum album, or veratrine, a substance now frequently employed in medicine, also exerts its influence upou the muscular fibre, to the ex- clusion of all other tissues ; and a large number of poisons, with the che- mical composition of which we are imperfectly acquainted, evidently belong to the same class. The principal result of their operation is sudden arrest of the heart's action, and in this respect they might be divided into two classes. Some act upon the heart before affecting the voluntary muscles ; this is the case with digitalis and upas antiar. Carrowal and wao, the author says, enjoy this sower m a still greater degree. The reverse is the case with other poisons, they act on the voluntary muscles first, and only paralyse the heart at a ater period. It is, therefore, he thinks, easy to conceive how wide is the iiflerence between the intensity with which these poisons act in differently >rganized animals Birds are instantly killed by a very small dose of -arrowal, mammals survive a few minutes, while frogs resist its action for a considerable space of time. The latter animals are able to survive a ew hours after the total ablation of the heart's action. Further on in the etobeautliorremarh, that in health the muscular tissue has a de- eded alkaline reaction ; but in the poisoned animals it becomes acid and IfeoSK tZCa? immedjat^ after death. Both of these changes spon- iaveelanif ft , ^ an'mals' but onl7 after twenty-four hours ave elapsed Ihe electrical property of the muscular tissue also under- oes a singular alteration, for, in the ordinary state of things the external ^:^t£J°Si^' I"' thC iLrnal °r -f surfa^negL ithyihp, w reVAerJe ,1S> h°wever, the case in animals poisoned led el! Xi-S h f1lAn?' ^ ,°Q T™* the P°i-°nedPMimalB nd Sy'entty ' * ^ " f°Und m°tio»less> r« In all such cases the muscular element alone is acted upon • for if nn oisoning an animal with one of these a-ents vou annlv » 1?? ** ' , ne of the limbs, and thus prevent the prison Z^Liu ?TZnZ* mse ot the limb thus preserved readdy obey its influence through tl,i rre.pond.ng nerves, thus proving that the muscular CTataT&Vta taVparSoeperS.lnterfered ^ ™™ ^alE It must not be supposed that the vital properties persist as Ion. 6 RS 5