295 HEAD. cheek by an incision from the angle of the mouth to the zygoma, and cut out a circular piece of the front of the antrum. The patient, a girl, set. 19, made a satisfactory recovery. Quain, Mr.—Case of Fibrous Tumour of the Left Superior Maxilla ; Bemoval; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., June 30, p. 645. It is said that free haemorrhage attended the removal of this tumour, ■which encroached on the ala of the nose, and reached nearly from the lower eyelid to the alveolar process. Fergesson.—Vascular Fibrous Polypus of the Antrum, extending into the Nose; Bemoval. Med. Times and Gaz., March 10, p. 235. Ferguson had previously attempted its removal by slitting up the nostril; but, from the great extent and the firmness of its attachments, and the profuse haemorrhage, had been unable to get away the whole polypus. Its complete extirpation was finally accomplished by removing the'front of the antrum, and freely exposing the tumour which grew from 1 the posterior wall of this cavity. Fearns.—Excision of the Upper Jaw. Med. Times and Gaz., May 12th, p. 471. In this case the whole left upper maxilla, palate-bone, and part of the malar bone, were removed, on account of an osteo-sarcomatous growth. The patient, a woman, set. 44, recovered rapidly. Skey.—Case of Sero-cystic Disease of the Superior and Inferior Maxillce. Med. Times and Gaz., June 2d, p. 550. On the left side of the face, a large, uniform swelling, of the size of a fist, reached from the angle of the jaw forwards to within about three quarters of an inch of the angle of the mouth. It seemed to he intimately connected with the upper and lower jaws, and distinctly fluctuated at its most prominent part, where it was punctured with a grooved needle, several drachms of viscid serum escaping. Fluid having agitin accumu- lated, Skey exposed the tumour by a cut through the cheek and masseter muscle, and removed a collection of bony cysts, containing serum, which implicated the outer walls of both maxillee. The patient, a woman, set. 41, recovered. Skey.—Malignant Disease of the Upper Jaw. Med. Times and Gaz., March 24th, p. 290. In this case Skey had already laid open the nose, and removed a large polypoid mass. Two months afterwards he excised the eyeball, and removed portions of a large, cancerous growth, which had destroyed the floor of the orbit and the neighbouring parts. Langenbeck, B.—Large Enchondroma on the Under Surface of the Hard Palate ; Detachment of the Tumour from the {Mucous) Membrane, Bone, and " Involucre " of the Hard Palate; Union by First Inten- tion. Deutsche Khuik, 1859. Canst., p. 323, vol. iv.