B3SP0ET ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. "urges, is no proof of original defective development, anchylosis in other parts being accompanied by malformations of the affected bones. The very intimate nature of the anchylosis between the sacrum and ilium, not only externally but within, proves that the parts anchylosed were origi- nally separate. Examining, by section and otherwise, specimens of pelves so distorted, lie finds that the epiphysis of the sacrum is present, recog- nised by its more compact structure on section. The anchylosis which has the effect of giving rise to the obliquely distorted pelvis arises, the author believes, from inflammation of the articulation, proved by Lusehka to be a true joint. Dr. Robert Barnes.—On Asymmetrical Distortion of the Pelvis, I he result of Unequal Length of the Legs. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 314. In this case there was oblique distortion of the pelvis. A first labour had been terminated by craniotomy, the second by the forceps. The left leg had been fractured at the ankle in childhood, and was an inch shorter than the right. The distortion of the pelvis resulted from the unequal force of the muscles of the leg. With reference to the mode of delivery to be adopted in such a case, the author believes that the be*t plan would be to turn the child so as to bring the occipital or larger end of the head into relation with the right or more capacious half of the pelvis, instead of attempting to drag it through by forceps with the occiput directed to the contracted side of the pelvis, or of destroying the child. Schmitz.—Labour complicated with Osteomalakial Pelvis.—Scauzoni's Beitr., vol.iv, i860. At the end of the fifth pregnancy, the pelvis was found so contracted that the forefinger could hardly be introduced, and the Caesarcan section was contemplated. On the following day, strong pains set in, and the head advanced, separating the soft, pliant bones of the pelvis, and with the help of ergot the child (still-born) was delivered. Recovery followed at the end of twelve days. Breslau.—A New Case of Hulisteresis Cerea. Deut. KL, Sep., 1839. N. Y. Journ. Med., May, i860, p. 416.' The pubic bones were so approximated, that examination was diffi- cult; but on introducing two fingers, the bones were easily moved asunder, their substance being soft and pliant. The promontory of the sacrum protruded inwards considerably. The decision to induce prema- ture labour was anticipated by nature, and a dead child born without difficulty; the presentation pelvic. The pliability of the bones disap- peared under treatment, and two months afterwards the patient was materially better. Prof. E. Martin.—On Podnlic Version as a Mode of Delivery of the Child in Contracted Pelvis. Mon. f. Geb., Jan. i860, p. 16. The question discussed by Martin is :—The pelvis being contracted, the head presenting, the child alive, but delivery impossible without ditr.ir.- ishing the head, what is the proper treatment ? The author considers that the treatment advocated by many authorities, viz., turning on the feet, in preference to the use of the forceps or lessening of the head, cannot be accepted in its entirety. In certain cases, turning is a rational proceeding, as in cases of asymmetrically narrowed pelvis, more capa-