ItErOItT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 70 8!unc fact, and published his views on the subject in the 'Philosophical Trails.,' vol. lxxvi, p. 313. (Brit. Med. Journ., 25th Aug., p. 674.) In the same journal, of iat September, Laurence replies to Gorham's letter, and adds a table, exhibiting the averages of a large number of observations on four different persons. The conclusion drawn from which is, that the magnitude of a complementary spectrum is in a direct ratio to its distance from the eye. Wharton Jones.—On the Invention of Stereoscopic Glasses for Single Pictures, with Preliminary Observations on the Stereoscope and on the Physiology of Stereoscopic Vision. Pamphlet, pp. 31. Wharton Jones.—Analysis of my Sight, with a view to ascertain the Focal Power of my Eyes for Horizontal and for Vertical Rays, and to determine whether they possess a Power of Adjustment for Different Distances. Proceedings of Roy. Soc, vol. x, p. 380. Boblin.—Optical Experiment, by which the Sensation of a Body in Relief may be obtained from a Single Photographic Proof. Bull, de l'Acad. de Bruxelles, 1858. Bruxelles, 1859, p. 297. L'Instit., No. 1304, Dec, 1858, p. 431. Canst., vol. i, p. 88. By removing the concave glass from an ordinary terrestrial telescope containing an eye-piece with four lenses and an achromatic object-glass, and by placing the instrument some five feet from the portrait, the effect of a solid object is produced. Dr. S. W. Mitchell.—On the Production of Cataract in Frogs by the Administration of Sugar. (Read before the Biological Department of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Oct. 3, 1859.) Amer. Journ. Med. Sc., Jan. i860, p. 106. While performing some experiments with sugar upon frogs, the author's attention was arrested by the white appearance of the animal's eyes, which, on close examination, proved to be cataractous, the cornea remaining perfectly clear and transparent. In some cases, when the frog died very early, no cataract became visible ; and in others, even in despite of frequent doses of sugar, there was likewise no formation of the kind observed. It may be remarked that the same change in the crystalline lens is found to occur when the eyes of a frog are simply soaked in syrup, and even when the bare lens is placed in sugar and water. However caused, either before or after death, the cataractous whiteness disappears when the lenses are placed in pure water, but the lenses do not become entirely transparent when the opacity has existed for a considerable period of time, or where the opacity is very highly marked. This, the author thinks, may be owing to the fact, that in extreme cases the lens tubes are not merely altered in form and in their relations to one another, but are also ruptured and partially emptied of their softer albuminous contents, lesions which no restoration of their aqueous supply can entirely remedy. The mere abstraction of water from a lens is found insufficient to cause opacity. The formation of the cataract, it is noticed, attends the second Btage of sugar poisoning, or that stage at which the sugar soaks into the tissues. It is, the author imagines, probable that the direct contact of the saccharine substance with the lens i3 essential to the pro- duction of the phenomenon in question, and he sees no reason to doubt