DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 401 Dr. Jenner.—J Series of Three Lectures on Rickets. Med. Times and Gnz., March 17th, April 7th, 28th, May 12th, i860, pp. 259, 333, 415, 465. Jenner, in a series of original lectures on the subject, considers rickets to be one of four great diathetic diseases of children; the other three being tuberculosis, scrofulosis, and syphilis. All these manifest themselves primarily by deviations from the standard of health, which deviations j)erse we do not call disease. In rickets we find the mental capacity small, muscular force deficient, mind and body inactive, figure short, closure of the fontanelles retarded, face small but broad, skin opaque, often set with downy hairs, dentition late, power of running alone and of talking late in arrival; teeth drop early from their sockets. The leading pathological tendencies are, softening of the bones, enlargement of the ends of the long bones, thickening of the flat bones and deformities consequent thereon, so-called hypertrophy of the white matter of the brain, chronic hydrocephalus, pulmonary collapse, laryngismus stridulus, convulsions, albuminoid infiltrations of the liver, spleen, lymphatic glands, &c. Jenner holds rickets to be quite distinct from tuberculosis or scro- fulosis. It is not a disease of the bones ; the change in the bones is only its anatomical character. The deformities which arise from pressure on the softened bones are next minutely detailed, and the mechanism of their production explained. Muscular action has, it is contended, no direct share in the production of curvature of the long bones in rickets. The thoracic deformity is due to atmospheric pressure, not to drawing in by the diaphragm. The rickety pelvis is more frequently triangular than oval. The fontanelles are late in closing, the head is square and the forehead projecting, owing to the defective development of the facial bones. The bones are affected as one organ. White patches are fre- quently found on the visceral pericardium. Emphysema and pulmonary collapse are constantly present, they are the results of the softened state of the ribs and of the consequent deformity. They may coexist, it is stated, without the emphysema being secondary to the collapse. The collapse has not, for its sole cause, obstruction of the bronchial tubes, although the cause in question is the common one. The great mortality of rickets is due to collapse of the lung; the extreme flexibility of the thoracic walls interferes with the passage of air in these parts, and mucus cannot be expelled. The emaciation is due to albuminoid infiltration of one or several organs, the lymphatic glands, the spleen, liver, and kidneys. As regards the symptoms of rickets, one of the earliest is profuse per- spiration of the head, or of the head, neck, and chest; a second is the desire to be cool, particularly at night; a third, general tenderness to touch, great indisposition to movement of all kinds ; the bones become next affected, and other derangements follow. The abdomen is very large. It is a mistake to suppose that the intellect is precocious. The great causes of death in rickets are— 1. Intensity of the general cachexia. 2. Catarrh and bronchitis. 3. Albuminoid infiltration of organs, especially of lymphatic gland and spleen. 4. Laryngismus stridulus. 5. Chronic hydro- cephalus. 6. Convulsions. 7. Diarrhoea. The causes of rickets are ; impure air constantly breathed; food insufficient in quantity or defective in quality; deficieut light; want of cleanliness; whatever, in fact, inter- 26