HSPOBT ON LliOAL MKDICINK A Nil PUBLIC HYOIKNK. 4GS particular!; the compounds of antimony, zinc, copper, and mercury ; com- pounds of boracic acid ; aloes and jalap ; and lastly, tannin, the presence of which, in large quantity, will lead to the suspicion of savin, which may. be further recognised by its volatile oil and other reactions. Friedreich.—On Abortion. Friedreich, io, 6. Canst., vol. vii, p. 2. In this case, an unmarried woman, confined with twins, was accused of attempting abortion, having confessed to have taken for this purpose, at the fifth month, a quantity of decoction of savin. Heller and Von Kletzinsky.—Judgment and Opinion on the Chemico- leyal Analysis in the Proceedings taken in relation to a charge of Abortion with the Powders of B. M. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, part 2. In this case the chemical analysis of the powders yielded a negative result. Heller and Von Kletzinsky.—Judgment and Opinion on the Chemico- legal Analysis of the Tea taken by along with the Appendix to the proceedings taken against E. S— on the charge of Abortion. Ibid., vol. v, part 3. Canst., vol. vii, p. 24. In this case indications were obtained, by the comparison of the sub- stances found with specimens of drugs reputed as abortifacients, with regard to their botanical and morphological characters, of the presence of laurel berries, althea root, flowers of red poppy, mallow, thyme, sneeze- wort, and six other drugs. CHOULANT.—Abortion and Murder. Superarbitrium of the Medico- chirurgical Academy of Dresden. Casper, vol. xvi, part 1. Canst., vol. vii, p. 24. A case of attempted abortion with ergot, oil of savin, of juniper, and of mace, aloes, jalap, and castor-oil. Poisoning of a child aged four months. DELIVERY, BIRTH, AND INFANTICIDE. Maschka.—Opinion on the remains of the Body of an Infant found in a Canal. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, No. 44. Canst., vol. vii, p. 24. In this case it was assumed, from the progress of putrefaction, that the body had been immersed from eight to fourteen days. The mud in which the body was found had distinctly penetrated to the smallest branches of the bronchial tubes, affording proof that the infant had performed the inspiratory act; while, on the other hand, the state of the lungs gave no indication of having contained air. Two explanations were possible— either that the inspiratory act took place after immersion, so that the infant drew in water instead of air ; or that (he air was really inspired, but that all traces of its presence in the lung had been effaced by putrefaction. VOLTOLINI.—The Centre of Ossification of the Inferior Epiphysis of the Femur. Casper, vol. xvi, part 1. Canst., vol. vii, p. 24. The centre of ossification in this case furnished an exception to the rule, that a measurement of three lines affords ground for concluding that the child has lived. In this case it measured four and a half lines in a child who died immediately after birth.