REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. TBOU88BA.U.—On Erysipelas. Qlmqw Europ., 1859, 26. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 305. Trousseau admits a predisposing influence depending on the general character of disease at the time, but asserts that erysipelas nevertheless always originates from some external injury or irritation, it may be very slight. Ixxiiauser.—On the Application of Collodion. Zeitschr. d. k. k. Gesellch. d. Aerzte, 1859, Dec 20th. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 305. Innhauser has obtained very good results from the use of a combi- nation of collodion and castor oil externally in erysipelatous inflamma- tions. Hardy.—On Erythema. Cliniquc Europ., 1859, 4 and 6. After describing several varieties, Hardy goes on to speak of one which he names scarlatinoid. This appears suddenly, or after 1 or 2 days of ailing, on the anterior surface of the thorax, arms and abdomen, or over the whole body; may be attended with fever, and terminates in 24—48 hours, leaving some desquamation. A pretty full account is given of all the forms of erythema. Hebra.—On Eczema; Clinic for Shin Diseases. Allgem. Wien. Medicin. Ztg., 1859, p. 43. Allgem. Wien. Medicin. Ztg. 1859. Report by Dr. Ch. Miiller, Wien. Spitalztg. 1859, p. 22. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 308. Hebra distinguishes 5 forms of eczema, which he docs not regard as so many grades or species, but as different manifestations (bilder). These are (1) Ecz. squamos. s. Pityriasis rubra; (2) Ecz. papulos, s. E. lichenoides, s. Lichen eczematodes; (3) Ecz. vesiculare, Ecz. solare; (4) Ecz. rubrum s. madidans; (5) Ecz. impetiginosum s. Impetigo eczematosa. These forms can be artificially produced by inunction with croton oil. He gives a detailed description of Ecz. in almost every part of the body, even on some of the mucous surfaces at their junction with the outer integument; but the only point of much novelty seems to us the statement that Ecz. of the lips alternates occasionally with Ecz. of the aixns, and that, especially in the latter situation, a remarkable seesaw (to coin a word) is observed between the cutaneous eruption and dyspepsia, the latter ceasing as soon as the Ecz. is developed. In the matter of treatment, Hebra seems to have little faith in internal remedies, and to rely chiefly on external. Arsenic, he says, must be given in large doses, which he is evidently shy of. After getting rid of scabs and crusts, he recommends the application of caustics, especially strong solutions of potash (even up to Potass. Caustic. 3i. ad Aquae 3ij.), or Schmier-soap, or Potash-glycerine, or Hydr. Bichl. gr. ij—v. ad Aq. Si. These are to be continued as long as they produce a pretty strong reaction of the morbid surface, viz.. excoriations, red pimples, and vesicles. When the reaction ceases, we are to resort to tar diluted with alcohol, ol. fagi, or huile de cade, or to ointments containing the usual preparations of mercury, zinc, and lead. He ends by saying, in relapses which are by no means rare, the whole treatment must be gone through again.