REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 108 Virciiow.—On Multiple Melanotic Sarcomata of the Pia Mater. Vireh. Arehiv., Vol. 16. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 31. Virciiow records a remarkable case of multiple melanotic sarcomata in the pia mater of the brain and spinal cord of a man who died after repeated attacks of lead colic, partially paralysed, and almost quite blind. The deposits were most considerable at the base of the brain and posterior surface of the cord. They proceeded from increase of the connective tissue cells, which were often arranged in a fasciculate manner. The cells were sometimes devoid of pigment. In the eyes and in otber parts of the body there was 110 similar change. Virciiow regards the process as a hyperplasia of a pre-existing tissue normally disposed to develop pigment. D. Brunet.—Researches on the new Membranes and Cysts of the Arachnoid. Paris, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 4. Brunet considers that new membranes are formed from an exuded blastema, that they are organized, and possess numerous remarkably large vessels, while pseudo-membranes consist only of layers of coagu- lated fibrine, show no trace of organization, and are devoid of vessels. He believes that the former are produced by a slight degree of inflam- mation, the latter by a more intense. The smaller formations, not exceeding £ths of an inch in diameter, he calls neo-membranes, all larger he denominates cysts. Both occur chiefly in the insane, much oftener in the male than in the female sex, and in children spread over a more extensive surface than in adults. In the neo-membranes are found fat granules, epithelial cells, red and white blood globules, fibrine. The liEematine separates after a time in the form of round or polyedric granules, single or in groups. The heeniatine often gives to thick old membranes a rusty colour. The cysts contain blood variously altered, mingled with more or less serum. Calcareous deposits have been found in the walls of the cysts. Brown-Sequard.—Lectures on the Diagnosis and Treatment of the principal Forms of Paralysis of the Loiver Extremities. Lancet, April 21, 28; May 5, 26; June 9, 23; July 14; Aug. 18; Sept. 8; Oct. 20; Nov. 10; Dec. 22. Brown-Sequard endeavours to establish the following propositions:— j st. That a paralysis of the lower limbs may be caused by an alteration in the periphery or the trunk of the various sensitive nerves. 2nd. That this kind of paralysis differs extremely from the other kinds of para- plegia by many symptoms, and by the frequency and rapidity of cure. The characteristics of reflex paralysis, whether in the lower limbs or elsewhere are, that there is an " outside excitation, starting from some sensitive nerve," which precedes the paralysis, often determines by its variations correspondingchanges in the paralysis, andwith whose cessation the paraplegia often disappears, which treatment is unavailing as long as it persists; post-mortem examination shows also the absence of organic disease. In a table he gives a concise comparative view of the principal features of paraplegia from disease of the urinary organs fa reflex paralysis), and of paraplegia from myelitis. A considerable number of cases arc cited, from his own experience and that of various