EBPOET ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 22 12. The contraction continues nf'ter the production of the movement, as n peculiar rigidity, whioh vanishes only when the softening from de- composition becomes apparent. The effect of a low temperature on the frog's heart, Foster says, is very peculiar. There is a great diminution in the rate of rhythm, and very marked increase in the duration of each systole, so that sometimes the heart is frozen in a tetanic beat, as it were. The author never saw a frozen heart resume its beat when thawed, but often one part of the ventricle slill beating while another part was hard-frozen. Nerves, like muscles, lose their excitability when frozen, and regain it on being thawed, if they have not been frozen too long. \V. Kuhne.—On the Coagulable Substance of Muscle. Ber. der Berl. Akad. 1859, p. 493. Cnnst., vol. i, p. 220. In this communication Kuhne narrates many interesting facts regarding the coagulable substance of muscle, which have a direct bearing on the question of the origin of rigor mortis. In warm-blooded animals, the rigidity of the muscles begins very soon after death; even before they have entirely lost their irritability a stiffening may be observed. In cold-blooded animals, on the other hand, not only does the rigor mortis not commence for a con- siderable time after the circulation has entirely ceased, but it is even delayed until muscular irritability has totally disappeared. In the latter species of animals, it has even beeu observed that a certain period of time elapses between the departure of irritability and the arrival of rigor mortis. On a former occasion the author showed that rigor mortis was not an inherent property of muscular fibre, for by means of a solution of sugar, or of common salt, he was able to extract from the muscle the coagulable material, and that, after extraction, this substance would not uufrequently spontaneously coagulate in the vessel in which it was placed. Kuhne now adds, that the fluid obtained from the muscles of warm-blooded animals coagulates very quickly, while that obtained from the muscles of the frog remains liquid for a considerable length of time. At a temperature between o° and $° C, the latter substance may be kept for more than a week in a liquid state, and if at the end of this time it be removed to a room of a temperature above 15° C, it rapidly coagulates. This agrees with the well-known fact, that moderate heat hastens the advent of rigor mortis. At a temperature of 400 C, the fluid expressed from frogs' muscles immediately coagulates, and the muscles themselves (not those from which the fluid has been extracted) at the same tempera- ture instantly become rigid. The acid reaction of the muscle is observable as soon as rigor mortis sets in ; before that, the muscles are alkaline or neutral. The fluid, on the other hand, retains (if filtered) its alkaline reac- tion after it is coagulated, and does not become acid until it has been exposed lor a considerable time to the air. It was formerly thought that rigor mortis could be removed, and irrita- bility restored to all muscles, by injecting arterial blood into the muscles of the limb. Kuhne, however, shows that this is only true as regards warm- blooded animals. _ W. KuilNE.— On the Chemical Irritation of the Nerves and Muscles. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii, pp. 406, 476. Gaz. Med., No. 11, p. 191. Mon. des II6p., March, 1859, No. 31, p. 248.