REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. always be placed in a completely horizontal position, with the head but slightly raised; the chloroform vapour is never to be inhaled otherwise than as diluted with atmospheric air, the proportion of which to the chloroform ought always to exceed 92 per cent., and may be increased to 95 per cent. ; or, in other words, the chloroform vapour, as inspired, ought to be mixed with from fourteen to nineteen times as much air. For this pur- pose a special apparatus is recommended, constructed, like that of Dr. Snow, in such a manner that the entrance of atmospheric air is regulated by the valves. If, however, it is wished to do without an Apparatus, a folded cloth is recommended as preferable to a sponge. It must not be too thick, and must be loosely held 011 the nose, so as to admit of the entrance of air through its folds and below its edges. During the inhalation the pulse and respiration must be carefully watched by an assistant, who must keep bis eye for the latter purpose on the epigastric region,and as soon as thepulse becomes weaker and the respiration more slow, or the patient begins to snore, the inhalation must be suspended. Ordinarily there occurs first a period of excitement, with a certain degree of consciousness, which is followed by anaesthesia. If the inhalation is continued, profound intoxica- tion or collapse supervenes. This last stage is attended with danger, and must be by all means avoided; as soon as anaesthesia is produced the in- halation must be suspended, only to be resumed on the appearance of returning consciousness. If, in spite of every precaution, collapse should occur, as, owing to idiosyncrasy, occasionally happens immediately after the first stage, or even after the first two inspirations, recourse must be bad to diffusive stimulants, aspersions of cold water, and other such means. In case of the supervention of apparent death artificial respiration must be commenced. For this purpose the finger is to be passed back so as to raise the epiglottis, and an elastic canula pushed into the larynx, by means of which air is to be blown into the lungs, and the thorax immediately after compressed ; if this cannot be effected, tracheotomy is justifiable, for the purpose of introducing the canula. The employment of electricity is not justifiable. It is necessary to watch the patient for some time after the inhalation, for occasionally chloroform induces after-symptoms, which may be serious, viz., stupor, deficient development of animal heat, and general collapse—a condition which speedily terminates in death unless active stimulants are timely administered. Chloroform may be administered without .scruple to women during pregnancy and lactation ; but caution is recommended in giving it during the puerperal state, and to old persons or children. Linhart.—Death by Chloroform. Oest. Zeit., 1859, vol. v, No. 39. Canst., vol. v, p. 113. In this'case death took place eighteen and a half hours after the admi- nistration of chloroform to a healthy peasant, set. 64, believed to be a drunkard, with a view to the extirpation of a tumour from the lower eyelid. An ounce and a half of chloroform was administered during half an hour, and produced only slight drowsiness. The patient remained well until next morning at six o'clock, when he suddenly died. On examining the body, twenty-four hours after death, all the organs were found healthy. The coagulability of the blood was slightly diminished.