REPORT ON SURGERY. 3M According to Sigmund, the mosL obvious changes which the hair under- goes in consequence of syphilis are, loss, alteration of colour, glossiness, and elasticity. The prognosis in the earlier stages is not wholly unfavor- able. The appropriate treatment of the syphilitic symptoms is often followed by perfect reproduction of the lost hair, with all its former properties. Grurer, Jos.—On the Metamorphoses of Organized Tissues in Syphilitic Subjects under the Use of Mercurial Remedies. Zeitschr. d. Gesellsch. der Wien. Aerzte., Nr. 12, 1859. Canstatt, vol. 4, p. 103. By comparing the weights of 103 syphilitic patients whilst under mer- curial treatment, and during convalescence, with the weights of sixty non- mercurialized patients suffering with gonorrhoea or primary syphilis, Gruber infers that the action of quicksilver on nutrition is not greatly injurious nor lasting. Waller.—Contributions to the Solution of some Disputed Questions in " Syphiliology." Prag. Viertel-jajrscbr., Bd. hi, 1859. Canstatt, vol. 4, p. 193. Waller, by an analysis of the urine of eight syphilitic patients who had taken mercury, demonstrated the spontaneous elimination of this mineral by the kidneys ; and since it is excreted by other glandular organs and by the intestinal canal, a time must come, in each case, when all of it is thrown off the system. Lorinser's statement, that quicksilver may remaiu years long in the body, is shown to be ill-founded. Lorinser, F. W.— On Deceptions and Mistakes in the Recognition of General Syphilis. Wien. Med. Wochenschr., Nr. 14—26, 1859. Also in a separate form, Tendler and Co. Canstatt, vol. 4, p. 194. A series of articles, in which it is attempted to be shown that the diagnosis of constitutional syphilis is uncertain, because its signs are not characteristic nor generally true, and, moreover, may be produced by mercury. Hermann, Jos.—The Advantages of the Mercurial Treatment. Wien, Tendler and Co., 1859. Canstatt, vol. 4, p. 192. The symptoms of chronic mercurialism are considered by this author to be mistaken for those of general syphilis. (He had denied in a previous paper the existence of constitutional syphilis as an independent form of disease.) 3. Syphilisation. Boeck.—Continued Observations on Syphilisation. Norsk Mng., xiii, 6, p. 545, 1859. Schmidt, No. 7, vol. 107, p. 46. Boeck deprecates the use of mercury, which he calls a devilish remedy. He repeatedly maintains that relapses after cure by syphilisation rarely occur, whilst they are common after mercurial treatment. He had never seen any one blind or lame, or with broken health after syphilisation. He holds syphilisation not to be merely a local process, acting by deriva- tion or by reparative suppuration, but to be analogous to vaccination ; that it fixes a certain materies morbi of the body, and renders it latent, but does not destroy it. Neither syphilisation nor mercury, according to this author, really cures syphilis, but only renders it innocuous.