REPORT OS LEGAL MEUU'IN'E AND I'UJJLIC HVGIENE. opinion that tlie stage of excitement wliich precedes anaesthesia is more dangerous than the latter. This he concludes from the fact that, in a total of X2i Cft3es, fifty-four died hefore the operation, forty-two during the operation, and only twenty-five after it. 14. Poisonous Gases. IIasse.—Poisoning by Carbonic Oxide. Pr. Ver. Ztg., 18*59, vo1' >'» No. 35. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 41. The following remarkahle symptoms were ohserved in the survivors of five soldiers, who were exposed during the night to carhonic oxide, in consequence of the closure of the valve of a stove heated with coal. Two were found dead ; in another death occurred in a few hours, being pre- ceded by convulsions. Of the other two, one remained eight davs unconscious, with fluctuating pyrexia, the pulse varying from 88 to 140, and was paralysed until his death, at the twelfth day. On the sixth day the whole surface was covered with bullae of pemphigus, of various sizes; on the eighth consciousness returned, and the patient hegan to improve, but a new eruption of pemphigus followed, with profuse suppuration of the parts on which the patient lay ; before death the extremities were motionless and the bladder paralysed; the urine was am- moniacal, and contained sugar. In the second case consciousness returned after twenty-four hours; he remained, however, languid and apathetic. His bladder was permanently partially paralysed. Although he had only been in bed three days he had bed-sores, and extensive abscesses in the breast and left cheek, occa- sioned by subcutaneous extravasation of blood. The urine contained sugar, and the patient became extremely emaciated. The following appearances presented themselves after death in the first three cases. The blood, which was thin, and of a cherry-red colour, was entirely uncoagulated. There was hypersemia of the brain and its mem- branes, and of all the other organs, excepting the heart and thoracic vessels. In the fourth case this hypersemia was much less marked ; there was no trace of inflammation. SlEBENHAAR and Lehmann.—Poisoning by Charcoal-vapour, its nature, prevention, and treatment ; a Monographical Sketch for the use of Practitioners, Sfc. Dresden, 1858. Canst., vol. vii, p. 10. The symptoms and anatomical changes occurring in cases of death by charcoal vapour are the following :—(1) As constant appearances—rose or vermilion coloration of the soft parts, fluidity and bright colour of the blood, and remarkable repose in the attitude of the body; the discharge of faeces and urine with emission of semen, and vomiting in a state of un- consciousness. (2) As variable phenomena, present in special cases only— persistence of the heat of the body, retardation of putrefaction, unusual flexibility of the limbs, peculiar lustre and transparency of the epidermis, lasting an unnaturally long time; black or gray tinge of the nostrils, and a similar hue of the mucous membrane of the nares, mouth, and air- passages. The authors also discuss the influence of various conditions in modifying the injurious action of charcoal-vapour, Btich as age, sex, and individual