SPECIAL DISEASES. 363 the condition of the bladder, but in tbe occurrence of impregnation in the retroverted uterus, and in tbe tendency of tbe organ thus impregnated to grow and develop itself, during the early months of pregnancy, in the retroverted or retroflexed position. The retroversion dates from the verv beginning of pregnancy. The distension of the bladder is an effect, not' n cause, of the displacement. The author relates several cases in which the retroversion in the gravid had been observed to follow retrover- sion in tbe non-gravid state. Dr. Skinner.— Retroversion of the Gravid Uterus. Brit. Med. Journ., i860, pp. 471, 492> 5!7> 87l> s9!> 9°9> 933. 949- , . . Skinner contends that displacement of the uterus backwards is 111 itselt uo great impediment to conception, he having witnessed several cases where conception did take place. In considering the question of retro- version of the uterus after conception, the author has collected, analysed, and commented on sixty-three cases. Gosselin.—Retroversion of the Gravid Uterus at the Fourth Month; Reduction by M. Ne'grier's Plan. Gaz. H6p., Nov. 10, i860. The fingers and thumb having been gradually introduced into the vagina, the fist was closed and pressure upwards exercised. Result successful. MtJENCHMEYER.—Reii-oversio Uteri; Cure by Puncture of the Bladder. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1859, p. 370. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 187. Joseph Rogers.—Retroversion of Gravid Uterus; Difficulty of Dia- gnosis. Brit. Med. Jour., May 19th, i860, p. 381. " Bashful."—Retroversion of the Uterus, and its Spontaneous Adjust- ment; Recovery. Dub. Med. Pr., March 21, i860, p. 236. M all.—Spontaneous Cure of a Retroversion of the Gravid Uterus. Allg. Wien. Med.Ztg., 1859, p. 52. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 187. Dr. Mont.—On Retroflexion of the Unimpregnated Uterus; with Cases Illustrative of its Causes and of a Neiv Mode of Treatment. Edin- burgh Med. Journ., Feb , i860, pp. 701. Moir at first treated retroflexion by tbe use of a straight bougie, the length of the uterine cavity, fitted with a projecting bulb. Latterly he has adopted the expedient of gradually dilating the cervix and cavity of the uterus by sponge-tents, and allowing the organ to contract on wire bougies, covered with gutta percha, gradually reduced iu thickness, and worn in regular series until the contraction is complete. F.vxo.—On Electrisation of the Uterus; on the Possibility of Reposi^ Hon of the Flexed Uterus by its means. L'Union, 1859, 134- Fano relates four cases in which flexion was cured by electricity applied by Legendre and Morin's apparatus. One pole of the hattery is applied to the cervix uteri, the other above tbe pubic symphysis, a little to one side. The application is continued for five minutes, and repeated at intervals. Dr. Charles A. Lee.—A Statistical Inquiry into the Causes, Symptoms, Pathology, and Treatment of Inversion of the Womb. Amer. Med. Journ., Oct. 5, i860, p. 313.