RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 217 Gerhardt.—On differences of the Percussion Sound of the Lungs, in silting or lying. Deutsche Klinik, No. ri, I859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 93. . Gerhardt states (1) that the tympanitic percussion note of caverns may, in the erect posture, become higher or deeper than in the recum- bent, and this difference may serve to distinguish it from the tympanitic sound of compressed lung tissue. (2) The non-tympanitic note of the lungs hi the vicinity of the liver is, in the erect posture, higher than in the recumbent. (3) This difference can sometimes be made out in chests of slender conformation as high as the clavicle. Lichtenfels.—On Percussion. Zeitsch. d. k. k. Gesellch. d. Aerzte zu Wien. No. 34, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 93. Lichtenfels states that the fulness of a percussion sound depends on the gradual decrease of its strength, and the degree of fulness is deter- mined by the slowness of the decrease. The tympanitic character consists in the gradual change from a murmur (geraiische) to a tone, and the degree of rapidity of this change determines the degree of that character. Czerjiak.—Contributions to Laryngoscopy. On the inspection of the Pharyngo-nasal Cavity, and of the Nasal ttssce through the Posterior Nares by means of small Mirrors. Wiener Wochenschr. No. 2, 10, 11, 16, 17, 32. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 104. Czermak relates a case of supposed nervous hoarseness in which a small dark, apparently soft, roundish tumour was distinctly perceived attached to the right corda vocalis. In a second case of chronic aphonia aud laryngeal dyspnoea, when laryngotomy had become necessary, a view of the exact situation of the contraction, and of the condition producing it was obtained by introducing a small reflector through a large canula into the wound, and so illuminating the larynx from below. Turk.—Communications respecting some cases of Laryngeal Lisease examined with the Laryngeal Speculum. Zeitschr. d. k. Ges. d. Aerzte, zu Wien. No. 11, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 104. Tiirk records a case of lupus of the epiglottis, one of diphtheritic ulceration of the vocal cords, one of syphilitic laryngeal affection with aphonia, one of complete aphonia as he believes from semi-paralysis of the lateral crico-arytenoid muscles, one of new growths of fibroid tissue on the true vocal cords with permanent complete aphonia, one of cedema of the glottis from typhus, and a seventh also of oedema of the glottis. In all these laryngoscopy was of essential service. On an Artifice in the examination of the Larynx.—Zeitschr. d. k. k. Ges. d. Aerzte zu Wien. No. 8, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 104. Tiirk describes several ways of altering the position of the larynx while examining it, so as to get a better view of its different parts. This is to be done mostly by an assistant.