SECRETORY SYSTEM. 241 siderably exceeds the normal proportion. There is a great amount of sugar. (4) A preponderance of meat increases the quantity of urea, and diminishes that of sugar, without essentially influencing that of common salt. (5) The free use of milk with mixed diet does not pro- duce any change in the quantities of sugar, chloride of sodium, and urea excreted. (6) The ingestion of alcoholic drinks, with predominant protein-food considerably increases the excretion of sugar; the quan- tity of urea is diminished, that of 01. Na. remaius unchanged. (7) VVith mixed diet, plenty of meat, Ojss. of good brown beer, lactate of iron afforded a mean amount of sugar, the urea and CI. Na. remaining the same. (8) With same diet pepsin in gr. x. doses bis die seemed to dimmish the quantity of urine, but its sp. gr. was higher, all the con- stituents, sugar, urea, and CI. Na. were both relatively and absolutely increased. (9) Benzoin given as benzoic acid, or its salts had no notable effect on the urine; but from observations made on another patient it seems proved that it undergoes the usual change into hippuric acid. After death (from pneumonia) the blood was found of a milky aspect, and contained a large quantity of free fat and white corpuscles, as well as of sugar, and some urea. Griesinger.—On Diabetes. Archiv. fiir physiolog. Heilk. Edin. Med. J., Sept. i860. Griesinger analyses 225 recorded cases, including 8 of his own. In 20 the disease appeared to be of traumatic origin. A vegetable diet, especiaUy if containing much starchy matter, was markedly influential in its production. The males were 172, the females 53. The disease mostly occurred from 20 to 40. Tuberculosis occurred in the majority, and there was also observed a marked tendency to suppurative or gan- grenous inflammations. The free administration of Sodre Bicarb. (3ss in the day), and an animal diet are the means he advises in the matter of treatment. Gexouville.—On grave essential Icterus. Paris, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 192. Genouville considers it established, that the degeneration of the liver is not sufficient to account for the disease, there must also be an altera- tion of the blood. Which of these two is the primary change he does not decide. The kidneys are also diseased in almost all cases, but no other organ. To the presence of leucin and tyrosin in the liver he attaches no special importance, as they are found in many other diseased states. Bertulus.—Clinical lectures on Diseases of the Liver. Gaz. des Hopit. No. 17, 20, 26, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 194. Bertulus states, that he finds the blood of patients suffering with hepatic phthisis (the result of latent inflammation), notably deficient in fibrine, fat, and albumen, while the cholesteriue is increased, and the phosphates are entirely absent. This state may be cured without much difficulty by vegetable and milk diet, quinine and iron. He con- siders at some length the diagnosis of bilious fever and hepatitis. 16