GENITO-URIXAKY SYSTEM. 105 in the blood (albumen) to escape along with them. At the same time he admits that the occasional manifestation of profuse albuminuria, in the course of other diseases tending to debilitate the nervous system and attenuate the blood, affords proof that it is possible for it to be sometimes simply a functional or accidental filtration of the nutrient fluids. The degenerations of structure ranked under the one name of Bright's disease may be of various kinds, according to the constitution of the patient and the nature of the inducing causes—debility of body proceeding from scrofulous or syphilitic taint, anaemia, drunkenness, or abuse of mercury; on the other hand, they may arise from local or accidental affections, such as the kidneys are subject to, in common with other parts of the frame. Thus, without any prior deterioration of the general mass of blood, there may be loss of function in the renal nerves, by which the natural reac- tions are so modified, and the affinities so altered, that, instead of glandu- lar or epithelial cells being formed and deposited as usual, there is a displacement of them by means of granular or tubercular matter or fat. Next, the evil may proceed from a pure anaemia, in which the over- fibrinated blood may block up, and ultimately obliterate, the extreme ves- sels, thereby cutting off the source of nutriment from the glandular tissue, and substituting an impoverished lymph, destined, perhaps, to undergo in the course of time still deeper degenerations. Again, protracted con- gestion and subacute inflammation may give rise to similar results. While there may be albuminuria without organic degeneration, there may also be organic degeneration without albuminuria. After detailing the symptoms of albuminuria, the author proceeds to state that, when the kidney is almost completely destroyed as a gland, life may be prolonged by furnishing the materials necessary to its operations ; and when the disease is still less advanced, there remains the probability of renovating, to a certain extent, the cellular and tubular structures that were on the point of undergoing the fatal degeneration which, when once thoroughly effected, can never be removed. The treatment which, under these circumstances, holds out the greatest chance of success is the administration of iron and albumen, in order to supply the loss of these materials which the system is, from day to day, and hour to hour, sustaining. Nelson relates several cases as illustrative of this line of treatment, to which he appends the three following deductions : 1. When the premonitory symptoms of debility and anaemia have not, as yet, produced actual renal disorganization, the supplies of the deficient elements afford a fair hope of averting the threatened malady of albuminuria. 2. If the renal disorganization be commencing, the improvement of the mass of the blood by such means may yet give the constitution the power of arresting the dire changes that may precede, accompany, or supervene upon the albuminuria. 3. Even if the disorganization be considerably advanced, such supplies may postpone the fatal issue for an indefinite period. Dr. Isaacs (Brooklyn City Hosp.).—Remarks upon Chylous or Mil/aj Urine; with an Account of Two Cases 0/ that Disease. Amer. Journ. Med. Sc., April i860, p. 472. In the above article it is stated—