2UG IIKI'OKT ON 8UEQEEY. (b) Gunshot Wound of Lower Jaw. SWEET.—On a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Face, causing the Destruc- tion of the Greater Part of the Lower Jaw; Recovery, with con- siderable powers of Mastication and Speech. Lancet, Nov. iotb, p. 458. A boy, set. 9, was struck by a charge of dust-shot, fired from a gun at the distance of four feet. The external parts were completely carried away from the left angle of the mouth down to the neck, including the chin, and extending to the antihelix of the right ear, and removing the right half of the upper lip; the teeth in the upper jaw and the alveoli on this side were absent; the masseter was laid bare; the lower jaw was shot away at the angle, leaving a long, jagged piece of bone, and showing the dental vessels and nerves hanging bare and torn; the facial artery was also torn, and the external carotid laid bare; the mylo- and genio-hyoid muscles were hanging loose on the neck, and the tongue was split laterally, the tip being gone, and presenting a trifid appearance. On the left side, about an inch of the ramus of the jaw and one tooth remained, and a jagged piece of the lower edge of the body. Sweet trimmed and brought together the lacerated parts, and afterwards, by drawing on the cicatrices with india-rubber bands, diminished the deformity. (c) Tumours of Loiver Jaw. Heyfeldeu, J. F.—On the Exarticulation of the Lower Jaw. Ballet, de l'Acad. de Med. de Belgique, ser. ii, torn, ii, No. r. Canst., vol. v, p. 215. In a communication to the Brussels Academy respecting exarticulation of the lower jaw, Heyfelder puts the following questions:—1. Is it advisable to perform the operation in such a way as to divide with the knife all the muscular insertions and soft parts attached to this bone, or to destroy these connections by a combination of pulling and wrenching ' 2. Can the temporal muscle always, and without difficult}', be separated from the coronoid process ; or must this apophysis be occasionally cut through with a Liston's forceps, and then removed with a Muzeaux's forceps and Cooper's scissors ? He says that the separation of the tendon of the temporal muscle from the coronoid apophysis is the only act which frequently pre- sents much difficulty. Both in living persons and in the dead sub- ject, he had often found this process unnaturally; long. Although he had, as a rule, generally succeeded in cutting the insertion of the tem- poral muscle with a bistoury or curved scissors, by depressing the chin as much as possible, yet, in two or three instances, he had been compelled to cut through the apophysis at its base (for this purpose he found Liston's forceps very appropriate) and afterwards dissect it out. The apophysis should never be left when the operation is performed for a morbid growth, because the disease may return in it; this had happened in his own prac- tice. He had also met with more than one case where the bone broke oflf whilst tearing it from the soft parts. The secondary haemorrhage which has been said to follow this tearing away, only occurs when a small artery has been cut, and its ligature has