REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 1G2 Russell.—Cases of Syphilitic Disease of tlie Cranium. Brit. Mod. J., March 3rd, i860. Russell's first case presented paralysis of the left third nerve, and optic, and improved under mercury and pot. iod. In the second there was almost complete anaesthesia of the right eye and side of the face, and right nostril, and of the mucous surface of the right cheek and jaws. The vision of the right eye was Impaired, and the pupil contracted. Treatment was of no avail. His intellectual power was decidedly enfeebled. In a third case after some previous cerebral symptoms an apoplectic attack occurred with general convulsions, followed by hemi- plegia, and a paralytic and rigid state of the left arm. lie was much benefited by the use of mercury. Lenhossek.—Contributions to the Pathol. Anat. of the Spinal Cord. Beilage zu Oestcr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk. v. 43, 44, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 300. Lenhossek gives the results of 322 autopsies relating to the morbid condition of the spinal cord, and its envelopes. Some of these are as follows: Sclerosis of the pia mater is common, giving an appear- ance of induration and hypertrophy to the cord. Pigment formation in cells is common in the Pons Varol. and Med. Oblong. Thrombosis of the veins occurs chiefly hi the anterior venous sinus. Dilatation of the central canal of the cord, and conversion of the anterior longitudinal fissure into a canal were sometimes found. Atrophy is usually partial depending on abnormal increase of connective tissue, or on external pressure. When the olivary bodies are affected the hypo-glossal roots are also wasted. Fatty degeneration of the smaller blood-vessels was observed, and fatty metamorphosis of the tvhite and grey substance was found after meningitis, apoplexy, &c. As forms of softening he enume- rates white, which always results from oedema and is attended with swelling of the tissue; greyish-red, the result of chronic inflammations, and apoplexies; granular, always associated with swelling, and specially prevailing in advanced idiocy; and red which always results from capillary apoplexy. Sclerosis from fibroid formation, venous varicosities, exudation corpuscles, corpora aipylacea connected with encroaching growths of pia mater and colloid corpuscles are all met with iu the cord, but tubercle never, not even in extreme tuberculosis. Fissures are sometimes found iu the cord occupied by debris of tissue and exudation stuff. In such cases there have been marked symptoms during life, apoplectic attacks, paralysing violent pains. One case of scirrhus was met with. Ligget.—Case of Hydrophobia, successfully treated with drachm doses of Calomel. Amcr. Q. J. of Med. Sc., Jan. i860, p. 87. Ligget in remarking upon his case of hydrophobia, lays down the following propositions as containing his views. 1st. The hydrophobic virus is an irritant poison whose action is directed, primarily and direct ly, on the great nervous centres, producing a perversion of their action upon the entire organization, and thus secondarily and indirectly, derang- ing the functions of the other organs of animal life. 2nd. This virus