CIKCULATOKY SYSTEM. 199 splenic blood. From a prolonged examination of the various cases recorded, lie states the following results, (i) Milkiness of serum (or blood) is due to presence of free fat, or of free fat with albumen in a molecular form. It is probably never due to molecular albumen alone. (2) It is a physiological result of digestion, pregnancy, lactation, and hybernation. (3) It is an occasional pathological result of chronic; alcoholism, diabetes mellitus, pulmonary disease, albuminuria, and perhaps some other disorders. (4) Lactescence of serum from free fat alone appears especially to accompany alcoholism and diabetes mellitus. The conditions favouring- the presence of molecular albumen are still very obscure; they appear related in some way to albuminuria. (5) The serum is sometimes neutral, and sometimes acid in this disease. It may contain no free alkali. (6) The albumen of the blood may be normal, or defective, or in excess. (7) Coagulable fibrin is sometimes entirely absent, or nearly so. (8) In the present instance, the source of the fat in the blood was the liver. From a survey of all the facts he has collected, he draws the following conclusions. (1) Piarrheinia consists^ in an excess of saponifiable fat in the blood, not in the mere liberation of fat from its combinations. (2) The excess of fat in the blood may be the residt of (a) the excessive ingestion of fat (as in piarrhemia during digestion), (b) the diminished elimination of the same (as in hybernation and pulmonary diseases). (3) Fat, if directly ingested, may enter the blood with the chyle through the thoracic duct: but, as this case shows, it may also be elaborated in, and ab- sorbed directly from, the liver. (4) Piai-rhemia is not a result of diabetes mellitus, for either may exist without the other. Both seem to be consequences of the same derangement of the functions of the liver which overloads the blood sometimes with an excess of sugar alone, sometimes with an excess of sugar and fat combined. (5) The pathology of blood milky from molecular albumen must be considered as still almost wholly negative. Botkin.—On tie Action of Salts on the circulating Red Cwpuscles. Virchow's Arch., Vol. xv, p. 173. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 55. Botkin thinks that stasis is produced by various neutral salts m con- sequence of then destroying the elasticity of the red globules, so that they can no longer make then way through the capillaries. Finger.—On Spontaneous Hemorrhages. Oester Ztschr. f. prakt., Heilk. v, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 301. Finger considers (1) hemorrhage occurring in anemic persons; (2) the state termed basophilia; (3) spontaneous intestinal haemor- rhage. The immediate cause of the hemorrhage in the first he believes to be the want of sufficient resisting power in the delicate capillaries. In ilie second, lie assumes an abnormal structure of the capillaries, and an abnormal crasis of the blood, consisting rather in an increase of corpuscles than in any diminution of the solid constituents. Of the third, he eaii give no account; but the prognosis is unfavorable. It may occur in _ strong or weakly persons. In the treatment of hemo- philia, he praises the use of sulphur, sulphate of soda, or magnesia which act by undergoing change into sulphuretted hydrogen, and so