REPORT ON TUB INSTITUTES OV MEDICINE. 82 portions of one or both vagi, be irritated, the expiratory muscles are stimulated by reflex action, and the centre of the inspiratory movements becomes crippled. 4. If the latter is not fully overcome, the inspirations become less deep, but more frequent. 5. When the irritation is so great that the inspiratory and expiratory centres are botli paralysed, a pause occurs midway between the two respiratory acts. Pi IIegelmayer.—The Respiratory Movements in Cases of Compression of the Brain, lleilbronn, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 93. Under Vierordt's superintendence, this inquirer observed, by means of the sphygmographion, the effects on the respiration of pressing the brain of rabbits trepanned for the occasion. (1) Moderate pressure reduces the frequency of respiration, sometimes to one half. On the discon- tinuance of the pressure, the previous, or even a greater, frequency in the respiration is immediately observed. (2) Very strong pressure increases the rate of respiration. (3) Section of the vagi does not remove these effects. (4) The variation in the duration of the respiratory acts is usually diminished, an effect which is not destroyed by dividing the vagi, nor does it seem to depend upon the inspirations, which vary more than natural if the vagi are uninjured. (5) Expiration is less frequent, longer, and more uniform in duration, results which are not affected by division of the vagi. (6) The inspiratory period being considered as y, that of expiration is found, on an average, to be 1.22. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Prof. Ludwig.—On the Temperature of the Saliva.—Wien. med. Wehnschr., No. 28, i860. Wi Buscii.—Inquiries into the Physiology of the Digestive Organs. Lo Sperimentale, Feb., 1859, p. 155. E. BitiiCKE.—Contribution to our Knowledge of Digestion. Ber. d. Akad. Wien., vol. xxxv, p. i. Canst., vol. i, p. 190. Schmidt, vol. l8l p. 145. Briicke's researches were made with the view of ascertaining—(1) what influence the quantity of acid and of pepsin has on the time required for digestion ; (2) if pepsin is formed during digestion; and (3) how the gastric juice is secreted. Prof. J. MoleschoTT.—Physiology of Alimentary Substances. A Manual of Dietetics. 2d edition, thoroughly revised. Giessen, 1859, 8vo. This repertory of chemico-physiological facts relating to food (com- bining original research with critical compilation), treats of digestion, absorption of chyle, of the blood, tissues, secretions, retrograde processes^ and excretions ; studies the effects of want of nourishment, the amount and kind of nourishment required, the various articles of food and drink employed ; their different degrees of digestibility ; and, lastly, the dieC most suitable in health, disease, and convalescence. The 3 55 tabulations which the work contains may be said to forma dictionary of the chemical constitution of the aliments, and of the animal fluids,