492 REPORT ON PUBLIC HKALT1I. Delarije.—Is the addition to Wheat-flour of a small proportion of Bean* det rimentul ? L' Union Mdd., 18*59, No. 14. A dealer was convicted in a penalty of twenty-five francs, of selling wheat-flour ndulterated with beans. On this occasion it was shown in evidence by M. Uelarue that the addition of 2 percent, of bean-meal to flour improves the quality of the bread, as such flour is capable of ab- sorbing 2 or 3 per cent, more water than when unadulterated. When added in the proportion of 4 or 5 per cent, it communicates a dark colour and disagreeable smell and taste. In larger proportions it prevents panification altogether. Carson.—On a New Method0/ Slaughtering Cattle. Lancet, Sept. 29th, P-3I5- Mr. Carson's method consists in making an incision on each side into the thorax, between the fifth and sixth ribs, so as to allow of the free entrance of air. Death takes place immediately, with very little loss of blood, and the meat obtained is superior in tenderness, flavour and juici- ness, to that killed by the ordinary mode. Gamgee.—Unwholesome Meat. Lancet, Dec. 15th, p. 595. The author draws attention to the frequent sale for food of the flesh of diseased animals, and the necessity of employing educated inspectors. Alleged Adulteration of Pepper. Pharmac, April, p. 534. Information was laid against Messrs. Wright, Crossley & Co., on the 16th of March, at the Liverpool Police Court, under the 59th George III, 53, for having adulterated their pepper with mustard-husks. Various chemists gave evidence of the adulteration, which were met by the con- trary testimony of Dr. Inman and others. Other informations against retail dealers were heard, April 17th, at Prescot, against certain retail dealers, for the same offence, the pepper having been purchased from the firm above mentioned. Similar evidence was repeated and confirmed by Mr. Phillips, Prof. Archer, Dr. Edwards, and others. Phillips.—Report on the Excise Laboratory ; from the Report of the Commissioners of Inland Revenue. Cliem. News, Sept. 15th. This report contains important information on every kind of food adulteration. During the year 1859, 9631 samples of food were analysed. Adrian.—On Milk, in relation to its Sale at Paris. Modes of preserving it, adulterations which it undergoes, and means of counteracting them. Paris, Svo, pp. 23. Minchin.—Means of determining the Quality of Milk. Chem. News, Sept. 1st. Dankworth.—On the Testing of Milk. Arch. d. Pharm., vol. 105, p. 257. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 398. Pfaff.—Research on the Falsification of Beer, and suggestions for a sanitary supervision of Beer. Heuke, vol. xl, pp. 60-9. Guyot.—On Testing Wine. (Bull, agricole ;) Rev. de Ther. M^d.-chir., vol. xxvii, p. 19. Wenke.—Beer, and its Adulterations. Weimar, Svo, pp. 71.