OUT \M ••! - SYSTEM. 253 fednal parts of the salt and spirit), or as a watery solution (2—10 parts of the salt to 500 of water and 10 of H.O.). He finds it veiy useful in lupus, using the stronger preparations in those cases where the disease is deep seated. In various other skin affections it is also beneficial. Gambehini and Tiiiry.—On Chancre. Schmidt's Jahrb., "Vol. 107, p. 45. J. de Bruxelles, xxix, Aug. 1859. Presse med. 38, 39, 1859. Gamberini and Thiry agree that there is only one kind of chancre, which is inoculable and communicable. Thiry differs from Gamberini as to the value of induration, holding it to be essential to the develop- ment of constitutional syphilis. Neither does he believe with Gam- berini that a new chancre can produce a new general infection. Hutchinson.—A Clinical Report on Rodent Ulcer. Med. T. and Gaz., Aug. 18, 25; Sept. 8, 15, 29. Hutchinson, after giving a series of cases of rodent ulcer, with comments on the principal points, sums up with 14 aphorisms, which we transcribe in an abbreviated form. (1) There occurs not un- frequently on the face a form of ulceration characterized by an indurated edge and a tendency to spread to adjacent structures indiscriminately, of slow progress, not painful, not inducing cachexia, and never followed by enlarged glands or visceral deposits. (2) The cell structures met with in its vicinity are not those of cancer, but of organising fibrous tissue. (3) This ulcer differs from lupus exedens in never occurring in the young, never getting well spontaneously, and having an extremely indurated ridge, without tubercles, or much congestion. (4, 5, 6, 7) This ulcer is closely allied to cancer, but yet widely different, its best designation probably is Rodent. (8) It is most common between the ages of 50 and 60, and is equally frequent in both sexes. (9) It is veiy rarely met with except on the face, and is most common on the eyelids; it has never been observed on the lower lip. (12) The younger the patient is the more rapid will be the course of the disease, and vice versa, and the young-er the patient the more nearly is the disease allied to cancer, and the more likely to recur after removal. Left to itself it destroj^s life in from 10 to 25 years by exhaustion consequent on haemorrhage, suppuration, pain, &c. (13) The best treatment is excision of the part and transplantation of skin. Escharotics may in some localities and in some stages be advisable. Ott.—Epidemic of Malignant Pustule at Inzenhof. Ungar. Ztschr., xi, 2, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 39. Ott has observed the occurrence of gangrenous furuncles and other forms of anthrax sporadically every year, in connection with ague and malarious cachexia. In 1853, it prevailed epidemically after a great epidemic of ague, and was confined to those who had been affected. It was again epidemic in the latter part of the summer of 1859. Of 15 cases, 3 died, in whom the tumour was seated on the neck; in the remaining twelve it was situated on the right side of the face in 8. It