480 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. Eraser.—On the excessive Infantile Mortality occurring in Cities and large Towns. Trims. Ass. Soc. Sc., p. 648, i860. Wallace. — On some of the Causes of the High Rate of Mortality in Greenock. Trans. Ass. Soc. Sc., p. 607, i860. Easton.—Poverty in relation to Disease. Trans. Ass. Soc. Sc., p. (>y„ i860. Black.—Statistical Notes of Newhaven and its Fishing Population. Trans. Ass. Soc. Sc., p. 716, i860. Annual Report on the Medical Administration, Hygiene, Hospitals, and Sanitary Condition of the Freetown Frankfort for the year 1857. Edited, with the co-operation of the Medical Staff, by the Medical Association. Frankfort, 1859. Canst., vol. vii, p. 45. This work is said by the reporter, Dr. Birkmeyer, to be 60 rich in well- worked material as to be a model. The first part is devoted to the topography of the town, and is divided into four sections, which treat severally of the special topography, soil, meteorology, and the progress and present state of the population, the authors being, in the same order, Dr. Lorey, Otto Volger, Wallach, and Varrentrapp. The second part consists of a general report by the senior stadt-physikus, and special papers on the statistics of mortality, on the deadhouses, on the innumer- able hospitals and similar institutions of Frankfort, on the functions of the district medical officers for the poor. It concludes with the reports of the medical and scientific societies of Frankfort. Chadwick, C.B.—Address on Public Health. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 574, i860. Lankester.—Notes on a recent Sanitary Legislation in the Metropolis. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 666, i860. M'Gowan.—Sanitary Reform; its Value and Limits. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 727, i860. Powers.—On the Diffusion of Sanitary Knowledge. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 713, i860. Annual Reports of the Medical Officers of Health of the Metropolis— for the City of London and for the Parishes of St. Marylebone, St. Pancras, St. James, Islington, Shoreditch, Lambeth, St. Giles, §-c. Quarterly Summaries of the Sickness and Mortality in St. Georges, Hanover Square. Quarterly Reports on the Sanitary Condition of the Whitechapel District. III. DWELLINGS. Pettenkofer.—Air in Dwellings, and Ventilation. Review by Dr. Hoppe in Virch. Arch., vol. xvi, p. 192. Canst., vol. vii, p. 54. Pettenkofer objects to the employment of hot air without due provision for an adequate supply of moisture. He insists on the importance of porosity in the materials employed in the building of houses, and shows that carbonic acid is prevented from accumulating in dwelling-rooms by diffusion through the walls. Pettenkofer considers tbat a per-centage of o-i is the highest that is consistent with wholesomeness, not because a larger quantity would be in itself injurious, but because it would imply