REPORT OX MIDWIFERY, ETC. 310 Van Pelt.—On the Transverse or Occipito-iliac Positions of the Vertex Presentation. Am. Med. Jour., April, i860, p. 367. The author states that observations induce him to believe that occipito- iliac or transverse presentations occur more frequently than is usually supposed. In 742 cases, they occurred twenty-three times; in thirteen, the occiput to the left side ; in ten, to the right. Dr. R. Uvedale West.—Substitutions of Parts in Labour; Effects of Internal Contractions. Gaz. Ilebd., Feb. 24, i860. Four cases are related by Uvedale West of substitution of one presenta- tion for another during labour, which he explains by the aid of the hypothesis recently propounded by Spiegelberg (see 'Year Book,' 1859). The result is, that the presenting part, which is near the sacrum, runs a risk of being replaced by that which is near the pubis, the uterine pains having more effect on the latter than the former, owing to the curve of the parturient canal. Keiirer.—On Deliveries in Cranial Presentations with the Occiput Bac/c- xoards. 8vo. Giessen, 1859. John Clay.—On a New Sign of Post-partum Detachment of the Placenta. Dub. Quart., Nov., i860, p. 372. If a ligature be placed on the cord on the maternal side of the place where it is to be cut across, the following phenomena are observed. At first the end is flaccid ; it then fills, and is tight and larger than before ; this condition it retains as long as the placenta is still adherent; when that adhesion has ceased, the cord again becomes flaccid, and this is the sign of detachment now pointed out. UNUSUAL LOCALITY OP PREGNANCY. Hecker.—On Extra-uterine Pregnancy. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., 1859. Schmidt, June, vol. 106, p. 307. This is a new series of statistics in reference to extra-uterine pregnancy. The author recognises tubal, interstitial, and abnormal varieties; but does not think that the existence of ovarian pregnancy is sufficiently established. He has collected statistics of 64 cases of tubal gestation; 26 cases of interstitial pregnancy ; and 132 cases of abdominal pregnancy. Jonathan Hutchinson.—Report on the Treatment of Cases of Extra- uterine Fcetation extending beyond the Full Period of Pregnancy. Med. Times and Gaz., July 21 and 28, Aug. 4 and 11, i860, pp. 56, 77, 105, and 132. Mr. Hutchinson's report applies to that group of cases of extra-uterine fcetation in which the life and growth of the foetus are prolonged to the full period of gestation, the foetus then in all cases dying. The object of the report is to establish some general rules as to the diagnosis aud treat- ment of these cases. A tabular statement is first given of eleven cases in which extra-uterine fcetations were removed by secondary abdominal section, i. e. an opera- tion consisting in enlarging the opening already made by ulceration;