475 FOItENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. relation, as regards frequency of occurrence, between delirium tremens, crime, and insanity. Skipper aud Skipper v. Bodkin and others.—(Court of Probate, Dec. 8th.) Journ. of Psych. Med., vol. xiii, p. 118. In this case the defendants, being relatives of the deceased, opposed probate of the will on the ground that at the time of its execution the deceased was not of testamentary capacity, and that he was induced to execute it through the undue influence of the plaintiffs and others. The questions placed before the jury were—(i) Did the testator understand the nature of his property ? (2) Was he so importuned as to deprive him of his free judgment. Verdict for the plaintiff on the issue of capacity, for the defendants on that of undue influence. Williams v. Evans.—Disputed Will. {Plea of Unsound Mind. Court of Probate, May 18th.) Journ. Psych. Med., vol. xiii, p. 433. The will was disputed on the gvound that the deceased, who died at the age of seventy, had, before it was executed, had an attack of paralysis, since which he had become childish. Dr. Winslow, who had examined him during life with reference to a petition for a commission in lunacy, presented by the defendant, gave evidence in proof that he was a person of sound mind and capable of managing his affairs. Friedreich.— Impulse to the gratification of a Vice as a motive to Crime. Bl. f. g. Anthropol., vol. x, part 6. Kkugelstein.—On the condition of the Deaf and Dumb, and its rela- tion to Legal Medicine. Henke, vol. xxxix, part 1. Hofmann.—Accusation of Qualified Murder. (Proceedings before the Jury-court of Upper Bavaria.) Henke, vol. xxxix, part 1. Fleciiner.—Case of Incendiarism by a Lunatic. Oest. Z., vol. v, No. 31. Masciika.—Medico-legal Contributions. Loc. cit. Cases 7, 8, and 9. 7. Opinion on the mental condition of J. F—, accused of murder. Melan- cholia, with intercurrent mania. 8. Opinion on the mental condition of A- y—> guilty of murder. Mental derangement at a period long pre- ceding the commission of the act. 9. Ditto of F. M—, accused of incen- diarism. Opinion, either that he was not the author of the crime, but, influenced by insane delusions in the delirium of typhus, had set fire to his neighbour's house; or that he was the original contriver of the crime, which he accomplished in a state of mental derangement concurrent with typhus. Krauss.—Imputation of Incendiarism; Epilepsy; Imbecility; Pyroma- nia; Viciousness; Question of Responsibility\ Casper, vol. xiv, p. 1. Bukn-ann.—Burning and Poisoning ivith Phosphorus by a Girl of twelve years. Casper, vol. xvi. p. 2. Kalisch.—Loc. cit. Cases 6, 9, and 14. Case 6. Mortal injury; doubtful criminal responsibility; investigation of a previous question of doubtful disposing power settled by the act 9. Question of murder, with doubtful responsibility 5 hereditary tendency to insanity. 14. Criminal responsibility of an incendiary, ret. 15 ; arrested