REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDIUM:. 26 which is immediately transmitted to the end of the muscle, and again returned to the spot from whence it set out. Tbe hollow at the same time disappears. A similar muscular movement may be obtained from nearly all the large muscles of the body ; and it is found that, the oftener the experiment is repeated on the same muscle, the more indistinct does the phenomenon become. Prof. Jonathan Osborne.—On some Actions performed by Voluntary Muscles ivhich by habit become Involuntary ; with Practical Appli- cations. Dub. Quart. Rev., Nov., p. 285. From this paper we extract the following remarks on the actions connected with respiration. The inspiratory muscles have the structure of voluntary muscles, and during our waking hours are completely under the control of the will. But there is a limit beyond which our dominion over them ceases. Thus, during sleep, or during epileptic seizures, their action continues without any effort on the part of the individual; and even when consciousness remains perfect, his power over the respiratory muscles is limited. When, for example, a person tries to cease breathing altogether, he finds it to be an impossibility. The average number of respirations in health is about 18 per minute, or one fourth of the number of pulsations of the heart. In violent mental emotions, the heart and the respiratory muscles are both equally thrown into excessive action ; in" such cases, the heaving of the chest, or panting, is much more remarkable in women than in men, from the respiration in the former being carried on more by the intercostal muscles and less by the diaphragm than in men. On the other hand, the proportion of respirations is greatly di- minished below the natural standard, when the mind is absorbed in anxious or sad reflections. In such cases, the individual breathes not ouly with such long intervals, but with such imperfect inspirations, that he is forced every now and then to recollect himself, and to compensate for the deficiency by making a full inspiration. By doing this, he is enabled to forward the passage of the blood through the pulmonary vessels, and relieve the turgescence of the right cavities of the heart. This, the author says, is the true explanation of the kind of oppression which prompts us to relieve ourselves by what is usually called a sigh. Dr. Valentiner.— On the Presence of Inosite in the Muscles of Drunkards. 35th Ber. d. schles. Geselch. ; Froriep's Notiz., vol. i, p. iia. Schmidt, vol. 103, p. 158.; and Canst, vol. ii, p. 72. Valentiner found—(1) a large quantity of inosite in the voluntary muscles of eight drunkards; (2) in none of the cases did he find any inosite in the heart, (3) or in the urine ; (4) in one case, only a little was detected in the brain ; (5) the quantity of inosite in the voluntary muscles (the pectoral were those examined) was nearly the same in all the cases ; (6) the eight individuals had suffered from delirium tremens ; (7) the age or concomitant diseases did not seem to affect the quantity of inosite ; (8) .the presence of so much inosite in the voluntary muscles appears to be characteristic of the drunkard's habit of body, for in twenty-one other cases (various diseases) there was either none at all or only traces of inosite to be found.