REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 212 Bartitez.—On the Comprint I ire Results of the Treatment of Croup by Tra- cheotomy, and by Medication during the Years 1854-1858. Gaz. Ilebdom., Dec. 2nd, 1859. Brit, and For Med.-Ch. Rev., April. Barthcz distinguishes between simple or local croup or diphtheria, and general or infectious. He recommends tracheotomy whenever asphyxia is threatening-, or internal remedies have failed. In 1856 there were only 4 recoveries among- 18 cases, 3 of those who recovered having- been trachcotomised. In 1857, of 33 cases, 9 were cured, 7 without operation. In 1858, 124 were operated on with a mortality of 106; 62 were not operated on with a mortality of 26. Barthez con- cludes from all his facts that it is not the treatment which determines the results, but the varying- forms of the epidemic. Brown, F. J.—The Diagnosis of Phthisis by the Microscope. Brit. Med. J., April 21st. Brown details at some length the views of Dr. Andrew Clark relative to the deposition, scat, elimination, and detection of pulmonary tubercle. Conway Evans.—On Tracheotomy in Croup. Edin. Med. J., Jan. and May, i860. Conway Evans reviews the various objections which have been made against the performance of tracheotomy in cases of croup. The first, that it is unnecessary, because the opening of the larynx is never so occluded by false membrane as to prevent the access of sufficient air, he meets by the remark that life has been saved over and over again by the operation, the relief afforded being instantaneous. The second objection is that tracheotomy is useless whenever the false membrane extends below the point at which the trachea is opened. To this he replies, that unless it can be shown that the operation, property per- formed^ increases the mortality of the disease, our inability to diagnose with certainty the precise limits of the false membrane is no solid argu- ment against its performance. To the third objection that tracheotomy increases the risk of supervening bronchitis and pneumonia, it is answered that this admitted danger may be very much obviated by more than ordinary care in the after-treatment. To the fourth objec- tion, drawn from the frequent insuccess of the operation, the results obtained in France are opposed where tracheotomy has been resorted to in cases of croup on an extensive scale, and where the mortality has only amounted to 68 per cent. To the fifth objection, of the danger and difficulty of the operation, the author answers, that the difficulty must be met by increased skill, and that Trousseau's records of 96 cases of its performance for the removal of foreign bodies, show 73 recoveries. A number of cases are next related, chiefly of adults, in which tracheotomy was of most essential importance, either saving or greatly prolonging life. None of these were cases of croup. The author assigns the following reasons for the frequent insuccess of tra- cheotomy when performed for the relief of croup. 1st. It has been employed almost always as a last resource, death by suffocation being imminent. 2nd. The previous treatment has been almost always of a depressing kind 3rd. In most cases the after-treatment has not been