NERVOUS SYSTEM. 1G1 by a free use of opium, constitute the treatment he has found most successful. RoiXESTON.—On the Cerebellum, with a case illustrating its pathology. Med. T. and Gaz., Feb. 18th, i860. Rolleston relates a case of supposed cerebellar disease. A girl, 931. 10, is unable to support her head, which falls over to one side or other, according as the muscles of that side contract. When, however, the head is lying on a pillow she can turn it. Some time previously she lost the power of maintaining the erect position, though she could move the leg while recumbent. He states that stiffness of the neck, and inability to maintain the erect posture when raised into it without any paralysis of one or both legs while recumbent, when coexisting, point all but pathognomonically to cerebellar disease. Gcido Weber.—On hamialoma of the Dura Mate)'. Leipsic, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 178. Guido Weber maintains Virchow's view, that effusion of blood between the dura mater and the arachnoid, is not in most cases a primary occurrence, but that mflammatory exudation first occurs, and is developed into a fibrous membrane traversed by a copious network of new-formed vessels. From the rupture of these the extravasation proceeds. In only 2 out of 22 cases was no trace of false membrane discoverable. Atheroma of the cerebral arteries did not appear from the autopsies to be a frequent cause of these hsematomata. Frommann.—Case of Argyria with Deposits of Silver in the Intestines, Liver, Kidneys, and Spleen. Virchow's Archiv. xvii, 1 and 2. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 187. Frommann records in detail the post-mortem examination of an epileptic patient who took in about nine months 3^ ounces of nitrate of silver with the effect of causing discoloration of the skin of the face and other parts, while the disease diminished, and at last ceased. Simultaneously with the discoloration, disorder of the stomach set in, which increased to absolute gastritis, which was followed by cachexia, and rapid tuberculous phthisis, of which he died two years and a hah' after the commencement of the argyria, or silver poisoning. The stomach was found much inflamed, with a perforating ulcer upon its posterior wall. The intestinal villi, especially in the duodenum and jeju- num, contained at then- tips black granules, which dissolved in cyanide of potassium. In the liver and spleen the black deposit was very abundant, and chiefly affected the coats of the smaller vessels. In the kidneys, the pyramids were the especial seat of the deposit, the cortical substance remaining free except the Malpig. tufts, which appeared as small black points. Sections of the skin showed a narrow, dull violet, or red-brown streak in the most superficial layer of the cutis close under the rete mucos. This streak followed the outlines of the cuta- neous papilla;.. The perspiratory glands were also dark stained, but not their excretory ducts, nor the surrounding tissues. Metallic silver in small quantity was obtained from the liver and the kidneys. 11