REPORT ON MIDWIl'EllY, ETC. 400 Uiilk.— On the Urine in Childhood. Wicn. Wohnschr., 7, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 401. In relation to the weight of the hody, a child from three to five years old secretes in twenty-four hours more than three times as much urine as a person from sixteen to eighteen years old ; quite three times more urea, and more than three times as much chloride of sodium. Boehm.—The Uric-acid Sediment in the Kidneys of Neiu-Lorn Children. Preuss. Ver. Ztg., 1859, 3 and 8. Bright's Disease of the Kidneys after Scarlet Fever. Report from the St. Joseph's Children's Hospital, Vienna. Schmidt, vol. ioj, P-7I- Involuntary Defecation and Micturition in Children, and their Treatment by Belladonna. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 7 and 8, p. 42. This is a resume" of Bercioux's and other recent observations on the efficacy of belladonna in such cases. The writer of the article states that the fact is certainly proved that belladonna has a peculiar action in cases of involuntary defecation and micturition, where there is no organic defect or spinal paralysis present. Textok.—Impermeable Urethra in an Infant relieved by an Operation. Wurzb. Verh. Phys. Med., x, 126. Med. Times and Gaz., June 9th, i860, p. 583. Timothy Holmes.—Fibro-nucleated Tumour of the Testicle from a very young Child. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 165. Timothy Holmes.—Tumour of the Testicle from a young Child. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 161. BONES AND JOINTS. Gueksant.—On Fractures in Children. Gaz. Hop., 73 and 87, i860. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 332. In the structure of the bones in children we find a predisposition to fracture. The bones resemble those of old people, in that the medullary canal of the long bones is longer and more capacious, and the walls of the diaphyses are thinner, than is the case in adults. In both childhood and old age, also, the muscles are weak. A special predisposition to fractures in children is the presence of rickets. Koch. — Cranio-tabes occurring epidemically. Wtirt. Corr. Bl., 28, Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 202. Within the space of a few months the author observed eight cases of this disease, the disease being at other times very rare in the district. Pour of the children were still at the breast, the others were weaned ; all were fed with milk, alone or together with other kinds of food. HiNK.—Extreme Congenital Rachitis, Cranio-tabes, and Rachitic Dis- tortion of the Hollow Bones of the Upper and Lower Extremities. Wien. Aerzt. Ztsch., ii, 7. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 314.