NERVOUS SYSTEM. 39 J. Lockhart Clark.—Observations on the Structure of Nerve-Fibre. Micros. Journ., Jan., i860, p. 65. Clark gives a review of Selling's recent researches,1 and says that the supposed elementary tubules, or fibres, described by Stilling, have no actual existence, the appearances from which they have been inferred resulting solely from corrugations, ridges, or folds, produced in the white substance by the action of chromic acid. The medullary sheath is semi- fluid, extremely extensible, but inelastic, and of a peculiarly viscid nature, so that when its continuity is interrupted, or whenever it is in any way disturbed, it has little or no tendency to return to its original position ; and, like other semi-fluid and viscid substances, may be drawn into fibres, or into delicate expansions of extreme tenuity. A fold or ridge raised up from the white substance presents to the eye, looking down on its convex surface, the appearance of a fine tubule, bounded on each side by a single dark outline, but on close examination Clark found that there are no vacant spaces between the ridges, as there would be if they were really fibres or tubules, and that they are all connected together by intervening portions of the hardened and brittle, but extremely transparent, white substance. With regard to the structure of the external or membranous sheath of the primitive nerve-fibre, there is some difference of opinion among ana- tomists. Clark believes that it consists of fibres of different shapes and sizes, some of which are so extremely delicate that, when in close apposi- tion, they appear to be fused, as it were, into a homogeneous, finely granular, nucleated membrane. Some of the fibres are broad, flat, or riband-shaped, of a faint aspect, and spotted at intervals with exceedingly pale and delicate granules; they are joined together at their edges. Other fibres composing the sheath are of smaller diameter, but sometimes less delicate and branched; they proceed from the ends of their nuclei, which are also occasionally coarser and of darker outline. W. Turner, M.B. (Lond.).-—Further Observations on the Structure of Nerve-Fibres. Micros. Journ., July, p. 150. In this communication the author states that in none of his prepara- tions has he been able to see any of the "ramifications" of the axis cylinder into the medullary sheath, which have been so elaborately figured and described by Stilling. Turner believes that the structures described by Stilling under that name are nothing more than small, fibroid particles of the medullary sheath itself, and quite distinct structurally from the axis cylinder. If they were actual prolongations of the axis cylinder, they would, like it, receive the carmine colouring matter when the preparation is subjected to the process of imbibition, which, however, as far as the author has seen, never takes place. Turner also disagrees with the opinion expressed by Stilling regarding the different fibres being connected in a bundle by means of fine, elementary tubules passing 1 Stilling states—(1) that the nerve-sheath consists of a thick network of the finest tuhules or fibres, which cross each other in all directions. From this network fibres run both inwards and outwards, the latter becoming connected with tbe sheaths of the neigh- bouring nerve-fibres, while the former unite with the medullary sheath and axis cylinder. (2) That the medullary sheath also consists of a multitude of the finest fibres. And (3) that the axis cylinder consists of three layers, one within the other.