3152 report on midwifery, etc. Bernutz find Goui'lL.— Medical Clinique on the Diseases of Women. 8vo, Paris, Chamerot, i860, pp. 591, vol. i. This volume contains records of upwards of eighty cases, illustrative of three diseases—retention of the menstrual Becretiou, peri-uterine hieuia- tocelc, and haemorrhage connected with extru-uterine fuHation. Hutin.—On Sterility in the Female Sex. 8vo, Paris, G. Bailliere, 1859, pp. 116. A short, systematic treatise on sterility in the female sex, with practical remarks on the appropriate treatment. Becgiuerel.—Clinical Treatise on the Diseases of the Uterus and its Appendages. With an Atlas of 18 plates and 44 figures. 2 vols. Paris, 1859. Becquerel's work is complete as representing the present state of knowledge in uterine pathology and therapeutics in France. Dr. Gunning S. Bedford. — Clinical Lectures on the Diseases of Women and Children. 6th edition. New York, i860, pp. 653. Dr. Tilt.—On the Influence of Tropical Climates on the Rise, Progress, and Treatment of Uterine Inflammation. Lancet, i860, March 31, May 26, pp. 316, 519. Tilt points out the manner in which the menstrual function becomes deranged in the case of young women going out to India. Liver disease and dysentery tend to produce uterine inflammation; intermittent and remittent fevers, ansemia and debility, all conditions to which European residents in the East are liable, also tend in the same direction. Dr. Tilt.— Contributions to Uterine Pathology. Complications of Uterine Disease; Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Paraplegia. Lancet, 1860, Jan. 14, Feb. 4, pp. 30-112. special diseases. Uterus. Versions, §-c. Virchow.—On Dislocations of the Uterus. Mon. f. Geb., 1859, March and April. Virchow comes to the conclusion that a congenital inequality in the development of the lateral ligaments of the uterus, and particularly of the ovary, is a frequent cause of the anteflexions met with in young women and "those who have not borne children. This conclusion is based on numerous post-mortem examinations of young children. Dr. Tyler Smith.—An Inquiry into the Correctness of the Doctrine of William Hunter in regard to Retroversion or Retroflexion of the Gravid Uterus. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 286. The author disputes the Hunterian doctrine that the chief and exciting cause of complete retroversion is retention of urine and distension of the bladder, and his conviction is that the most common cause of retrover- sion of the gravid uterus is not to be found in the state of the pelvis or