325 SYPHILIS. Sigmund.—Syphilisation in St/philitic Diseases. Wien. Med. Wochenschr., Nr. 17, 1859. SlSMUND.—The Mode of Performing Syphilisation. Wien. Med. Wochenschr., Nr. 19, 18^9. Five cases of cure by syphilisation are related, in which Sigmund used matter from fresh, non-indurated chancres. In his description of t he proceeding, it is said that for the first inoculation matter may be taken indifferently from a chancre with a soft or hard base. LlNDWTJBM.—On Syphilisation and the Treatment of Syphilis with Tartar-Emetic Ointment. Bayer. Aerztl. Intell. 131., 113, p. 173, i860. Schmidt, No. 7, vol. 107, p. 47. Lindwurm refers the curative influence of syphilisation to the excretory action of the numerous and prolonged ulcerations. He had submitted fourteen syphilitic patients to friction with tartar-emetic ointment, with- out any other treatment. When the pustules from one inunction had dried up, a fresh crop was produced by a second inunction in another place, and this was repeated. The results were in some instances sur- prisingly favorable, in others less good, and in others negative. He considers that syphilisation and tartar-emetic-ointment frictions produce like results, but that the syphilitic symptoms disappear more quickly under the former plan of treatment. IIeera.—On Syphilisation. Wien. Ztschr., N. F. hi, Jan. Schmidt, No. 7, vol. 107, p. 47. A report of twenty-four cases, of which three were affected with primary forms (ulcers and buboes), nineteen with various secondary symptoms, and two with non-syphilitic lupus serpiginosus. The inocula- tions consisted of four punctures, three times a week, and the whole number of punctures varied from seven to 604. Most of the patients gained weight under this treatment. The results of Hebra's observa- tions are, that both primary and secondary syphilitic patients thrive under continual inoculation from chancrous ulcers, acquire a good per- sonal appearance, and gradually lose all objective and subjective symptoms of syphilis. Fa YE.—On Syphilisation. Lancet, June 9, p. 583. A letter from Dr. Faye to the editor, giving his experience and opinions concerning this practice in Scandinavia. He says that in Norway the curative inoculation of chancrous matter is adopted in two hospitals as well as by Prof. Boeck ; that some relapses have occurred, though he believes not many ; and that the true proofs of a radical cure—of a healthy organism, viz., healthy children—have, up to the present time, been scanty. He considers that the complete elimination of the syphilitic matter by chancrous inoculation is improbable, and speaks favorably of the effects of depurative suppuration with simple issues. Kalischer, Dr. Emil.—Syphilisation. Berlin, i860. (Tract.)