170 EEPOET ON ritACTIOAL MEDICINE. regard of tho supply of blood. He compares the phenomena in these three diseased states as exhibited by the motor, sensory, and vaso- motor nerves. In myelitis the number of motor conductors affected is much larger, and also tho degree of excitation is greater than in spinal congestion and meningitis, so that both the degree of paralysis and the frequency of cramps arc greater in the first than in the last two affections. In these again, when not complicated witli myelitis, tho referring of sensations to the skin and other parts is almost null. In myelitis there is a great variety of sensations referred to paralysed parts. In cases of spinal congestion and meningitis the signs of an excitation of tho vaso-motor nerves are less marked than in myelitis. The treatment of myelitis (chronic) is that of reducing hyperoemia by various means, as (i) position; (2) derivatives to the surface ; (3) drags which contract the blood-vessels, as belladonna and ergot of rye. The patient should never lie on Ins back. The hot douche and dry cupping are of much use. Blisters, moxas, cauteries, are to be employed when there is caries or other organic affection of the bones. Iodide of potas- sium may be given if symptoms of meningitis are present, and in cases of chronic meningitis is to be preferred to belladonna and ergot. Bed- sores may be prevented or stopped by alternate applications of cold and heat, a bladder of ice for ten minutes, followed by a poultice for an hour, The paralysed limbs should be shampooed and galvanized. In Lecture IV the symptoms of white softening of the spinal cord are described, and those of haemorrhage in the grey matter. In the former there is gradual and increasing weakness, diminution of sensibility, and loss of power over the sphincters. There are no cramps, no pain in the spine or paralysed parts. The urine is very rarely altered. In the latter the paraplegia is sudden, and there is loss of sensibility from the first; pain is felt at the site of the haemorrhage, and in the parts of the body supplied by nerves given off from the vicinity of the part of the cord affected by the haemorrhage, the sphincters are almost completely paralysed from the first. Inflammation often supervenes, and produces the symptoms of myelitis. If the blood is effused outside the cord pain is felt iu a greater extent of the spine, and tetanic convidsions arc not rare. In both the above cases the prognosis depends chiefly on the extent and degree of the paralysis. In white softening, Pot. Iod. with Ammon. Carb. aa gr. v; iron, tinct. cinchonae, strychnine, the cold douche, the supine position at night, and generous diet, are recommended. In haemorrhage, strychnine is to be avoided, and all causes which may produce congestion of the cord. With regard to tumours, the symptoms they produce vary according to their situation, also according to tho degree of irritation and the nerves that are irritated. There is usually also pabi, increased by pressure, at the part of the spine where the tumour is situated. In the course of the disease myelitis, and some- times meningitis, occur. Myelitis is indicated by formication or prick- ing in the paralysed limbs with spasmodic movements or great rigidity, alkaline urine, sloughs on the nates, and sensation of a cord tied round the body or paralysed limbs. In meningitis there is rapid increase of the paralysis, acute pain on any movement of the spine or lower limbs, and spasmodic rigidity of the muscles of the back. In some cases of tumour hi or upon the cord, epileptiform convulsious, or real epileptic