DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 391 Bierbaum.—The Paralyses of Children. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 1 and Bierbaum divides the paralyses of children into two varieties—the idiopathic and the symptomatic. The history and character, diagnosis, &c, of these affections are very fully discussed, and numerous illustrative cases related. The distinctions between the two forms are laid down as follows: The symptomatic paralyses always depend on functional or organic dis- turbance of the brain or cord. In the idiopathic form the nervous centres are free and unaltered. The intelligence, consciousness, and functions of the senses are disturbed in the symptomatic, but not in the idiopathic form. Almost always the bladder and rectum are affected, producing constipation and retention of urine or enuresis in the symptomatic, not in the other, form. Muscular atrophy is never absent in case of idiopa- thic paralysis, and this is combined with deformity, which is not the case in symptomatic paralysis. In symptomatic paralysis limitation of the affection to one muscle, or one single group of muscles, is never noticed. Eulenberg.—On the Essential Paralysis of Children. Virch. Arch., 1859, 177. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 55. Hahn.—On Chronic Hydrocephalus, and on a New Method of Puncturing the same. Berlin, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 384. The method of puncture is that of Langenbeck. A trochar and canula are thrust through the upper border of the orbit, and into the enlarged anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. By this plan no large arteries or veins, and no important part of the brain, are injured. No air enters, which is another advantage. A case in which this method was had re- course to ended fatally. Roux fils (de Brignoles).—On Compression and Puncture in Chronic Hydrocephalus. Monit. des Sc. Med., 1859, No. 23. Canst., vol. iv, p. 384. The author relates two cases. In the first, that of a boy ten months old, a cure was effected by compression of the head by means of strips of adhesive plaister. Calomel was given at the same time. In a second case the head was punctured ; the child, set. 11 months, died two days afterwards. Prof. Trousseau.—On Cerebral Fever in Children. Clin. Europ., 7, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 384. Lensing.—On Tubercular Meningitis. Berlin, 1859. Lund.—Chronic Hydrocephalus. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 1 and 2. Boucuut.—On Cysticerci in the Brain in Children. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 9 and 10. Two cases are related. In the first, a girl, set. 6, died apparently from typhus, but after death cysticerci were found in the brain, and purulent exudation over the meninges. The single cerebral symptom present was persistent vomiting. In the second case, a girl, cet. 10, who came into the hospital with chorea, died after an attack of scarlet fever, and here also cysticerci were found in the brain. In both cases the cerebral condition was not diagnosticated. The chorea in the latter case was a peculiar hemiple°-ic form. r 0