15 JfANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. scientific arts, and endeavouring to point out, in respect of each in turn, what is the secret of the degree of excellence to -which it has attained, and how far that excellence can be traced to the facilities which it offers for the application of figures. The second lecture is devoted to the "logic of large numbers," and the third to the consideration of the extent to which the numerical method admits of being applied to the science of medicine, and in the art of heal- ing. Dr. B. W. Richardson.—On the Study of Disease by Synthesis. Lancet, 18th Feb., p. 169. 1. The author divides diseases into six great classes—parasitic; zymotic ; diseases the primary origin of which is in the nervous system ; diseases where, from disordered chemistry, a new growth is evolved out of the materials of the body (malignant diseases); diseases of simple degene- ration, i. e. of misplacement of the natural constituents of the organism ; and, lastly, inflammation. 1. He then mentions the production of endocarditis by the artificial introduction of lactic acid into the system of animals, and says that the results of his experiments taught him that Prout's hypothesis as to the origin of rheumatism is essentially correct. Some modification of the view may, in course of time, be required as to the nature of lactic acid, and its relationship to the economy; but the fact of the origin of the local disease, as the result of a specific acid poison, will, he says, ever remain. 3. In the next place, it may be that every local inflammation we know of (as due to internal causes) is the result of some similar agent, an agent not foreign to the body, and not hurtful to the system when present in the normal proportion (lactic acid is innocent as a natural constituent of muscle), but truly poisonous when, accumulating, it pervades the tissues to which it is foreign. Dr. Studley (Yorkville).— The Rationale of the Hot and Cold Stages and Periodical Exacerbation of Diseases. Amer. Med. Times, Sept., i860, p. 166. The author says, the consideration of heat and cold, as exhibited in the animal economy, involves the subject of calorification, and this again depends upon the circulation and the nervous system. No proposition in physiology seems more fully settled than the mutually modifying relation- ship of the nervous and the circulatory systems; again, none more clearly proven than that the waste of tissue must be compensated by repair, and from these phenomena he deduces the three following propositions : ist. That abnormal cold, as observed in the outset, and oftentimes during the course of different diseases, is a consequence of suspension of nutritive processes, depending on nervous influences, either centric or reflex. 2d. That abnormal heat, as observed in the same, is a consequence of exaggeration in the nutritive processes, depending on nervous influences, either centric or reflex. 3d. That periodic exacerbations of disease, by which the author means more or less stated recurrences of depression and reaction, are simply phenomena of textural exhaustion and resuscitation, waste and repair.