EPIDEMIC AND ENDEMIC DISEASES. 493 X. COSMETICS. Chevallier.—On Cosmetics: their Composition, and their Dangers in relation to Health. Ann. d'Hyg., Vol. xiii, p. 89. On White Cos- metics. Ibirl., p. 342. These papers were occasioned by the trial and conviction in Paris of a perfumer, who supplied cosmetics to the principal theatres. The proceed- ings in question related to the use of carbonate of lead, under the names of silver white, alabaster white, &c, which it appears are used by dramatic artists very generally for the purpose of increasing the brilliancy of the complexion. The greater part of the paper is devoted to this subject. It includes a series of detailed cases, all of members of the dramatic pro- fession, in which the symptoms of saturnine intoxication presented them- selves in great variety. These symptoms were for the most part neurotic, consisting of impaired sight, dyspepsia, constipation, and colic, accom- panied with general loss of health. There was always emaciation, and the general aspect was peculiar; the expression assumed a character of sadness, and the skin not only lost its freshness, and became dry and scurfy, but often assumed a discoloration which lasted some time when exposed to air containing sulphuretted hydrogen. The silver white answers its purpose so much better than any of its substitutes—viz., sub- nitrate of bismuth, oxide of zinc, or French chalk—that actresses persist in using it, although aware of its dangers. Chevallier proposes a new cosmetic, consisting of equal parts of oxide of zinc and talc, which he finds to yield a cosmetic of great brilliancy. The rest of the paper is devoted to other cosmetic preparations. He criticises in succession denti- frices, depilatories, emulsions, pomades, powders, &c. XI. EPIDEMIC AND ENDEMIC DISEASES. Greenhow.—On Diphtheria. London, i860. The first three chapters are devoted to the history of epidemics of diphtheria from the sixteenth century to the present time, from which it is shown that although diphtheria as an epidemic disease is new to the present generation of medical practitioners, it was well known, and has been accurately described under other names, by several of the older physicians. In the third chapter the author shows that, although diph- theria has generally appeared as a wide-spread epidemic, it sometimes occurs in a sporadic form, and at others has been so limited in its extent, or has adhered so tenaciously to particular places, as to resemble rather an endemic than an epidemic disease. In the fourth chapter, which is devoted to the resemblances and differences which exist between diph- theria and scarlatina, numerous instances are related in which the one disease was followed by the other, and in which several attacks of the former followed each other at long intervals in the same individual In the third chapter the human and brutal diseases which at various times and places have been observed to be coincident with diphtheria are de- scribed, and the relation of local and personal causes to the epidemic are considered, fhe author states that his inquiries and personal observation have entirely failed to connect its occurrence with the defective construe