OX THE ORGANS OF SENSE. 71 that the changes which then result are osmotic ; but whether the changes are chiefly due to the absorption of sugar in solution by the crystalline humour or to exosmosis of the thinner portions of the lens fluids to the sugar, the author had no means of determining. The following are Mitchell's conclusions: ,,.„„,„ , 1. That sugar in large quantity destroys the life of the frog, when given internally, or injected under the skin. 2. That an abundant supply of water frequently enables the frog to eliminate the sugar and escape death. 3. That the formation of a peculiar variety of cataract is one of the most curious and striking signs attendant upon sugar poisoning. 4. That the production of cataract is due to the mechanical disturbances of the form aud relative position and contents of the component tubes of the lens. The author adds, that we have no knowledge of any such form of cataract in man ; but as it has been observed that double cataracts, of a soft nature, rapidly form in the advanced stage of diabetes mellitus, it is not impossible that, beyond the general .impairment of the nutritive functions common in this disease, the long-continued presence of a small quantity of sugar in the blood may cause in the crystalline lens osmotic changes productive of opacity. Dr. B. W. Richardson.—The Synthesis of Cataract. Journ. de la Phys., 1860, July, p. 449; Oct., p. 645. The author repeated and greatly extended Mitchell and Kunde's expe- riments on the artificial production of cataract, and the results obtained, in as far as sugar is concerned, are in perfect accord with those just cited. In the second part of his communication, which is unfinished, Richardson i details a number of experiments that he made with mannite, liquorice, 1 saccharine urine, glycerine, alcohol, and a number of saline substances. "\Ye cannot, however, at present say more than that sugar is not the only ( substance which causes the artificial formation of cataract, as the conclu- sions drawn by the author from the experiments are not yet published. A. DE Martini.—On the Coloration of the Vision and of the Urine pro- duced by Santonine. Employment of Santonine in Affections of the Eye. Communicated by Flourens, Compt. Rend., p. 544, 12th March, i860. According to the observations of De Martini, santoniue, taken internally, causes the majority of persons to see everything tinged green ; some, however, have the field of vision blue ; while to a still smaller number the field of vision appears of a straw-yellow colour. The author has studied the effects of santonine in diseases of the visual organs, and relates the following cases: 1. On administering santonine to a woman, set. 70, who saw things very indistinctly with the left eye, he found that from four to eight grains, given daily, greatly improved the visual powers, although the medicine , at the same time made everything appear yellow. 2. To another patient, suffering from amaurosis, the author administered santonine with benefit; but in a third case the advantage of the dru»- was more visible still. 3. The patient was a man who had entirely lost the right, and who