243 SECRETORY SYSTEM. in increased epithelial growth, depending- on inflammation or some allied condition. In about half the number of specimens examined, indications of wasting- and shrinking were observed, although the size of the organ was still excessive. The granular form of disease Dickinson states is produced by an intertubular effusion which becomes organised into fibrous tissue, and by its shrinking causes contraction and atrophy. From experiments performed to ascertain the amount of water that flowed through the vascular system of healthy, enlarged, and con- tracted kidneys, it resulted that the average of 13 healthy was 119 oz., of 5 enlarged 90*5 oz., of 6 contracted 25-1 oz. WrjNDERLicH.—The Clinical peculiarities, and the import of pernicious Jaundice running an Acute Course. Arch. d. Heilk. i., 3, p. 205, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 32. Wunderlich divides the cases he proposes to consider into 6 groups. In (1) the pernicious symptoms are only prodromata, and cease on the appearance of the jaundice. In (2) the disease begins with grave symptoms, jaundice soon appears, and death. No local alterations are found on examination. In (3) the disease runs a similar rapid course, and the liver is found diminished in size, and its tissue in a state of molecular destruction. Other organs, especially the brain and spleen, are also softened. In (4) the course of the disease is similar, but the jaundice less, and after death the liver is found enlarged and very fatty. In (5) the liver contains multiple abscesses, the result of a primary suppurative hepatitis. In (6) the cases resemble those of primary pernicious jaundice, but end in recovery. Wunderlich is in- clined to look on the disease as one affecting the whole system, and states that the jaundice is by no means an essential symptom. Opolzer.—Case of Acute Atrophy of the Liver. Spitals-Ztg. 6-9, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 34. In Oppolzcr's case there was partial fatty degeneration of the sheaths of the cerebral vessels ; the fibres of the heart were fattily degener- ated ; the liver cells were destroyed, and amid the debris were leucin and fat globules; the epithelium of the urinary tubules was in a state of fatty degeneration. In the liver there was no bile or sugar ; in the blood there was urea, carbonate of ammonia, and bilin in small quan- tity, leucin and tyrosin in a large amount; no sugar. Boixf.t and Leudet.—On the Treatment of Hydatids of the Liver. Rev. de Therap. Med.-Chir. 3-8, 1859. L'Un'ion, 90, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 35. Boinet thinks that by his mode of procedure the contents of hydatid cysts may be safely evacuated. He first punctures with an exploratory trocar, by which he continues to evacuate the liquid if it is clear and aqueous, only taking care on withdrawing the trocar to keep the abdominal wall pressed against the tumour for some minutes, and sub- sequently to insist on the recumbent position being observed for 36- 48 hours (on the back). If the contents are purulent a larger trocar is to be introduced, through the canula of which a close fitting elastic catheter is to be passed and left in the wound, the canula being then