llKPOHT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. tyrosin ; (c) in horn, 10 percent. Icucin and 3.6 per cent, tyrosin. Our; authors recommend, as a good test for tyrosin, the nitrate of mercury; it gives, they say, a red colour with an aqueous solution of pure tyrosin, and, after hoiling, a red crystalline precipitate. Nitrate of the protoxide of mercury, on the other hand, gives only after prolonged boiling a: feeble red colour with the same solution ; and this probably arises from some of the protoxide becoming cbanged to oxide of mercury during the process of boiling. Cll. Rouget.—On the Amyloid Substances in the Tissues of Animals, especially of the Articulata (chitin). Comp. Rend., vol. xlviii, p. 792. On a previous occasion, Rouget tried to establish the fact, that the amyloid substance discovered in the placenta of the mammalia is not the product of a particular organ, or confined to any one class of cells. The author has found it, he says, in the epithelium of the skin, of the mouth, of the stomach, and of the intestines ; and that it corresponds exactly with glucogene obtained from the liver, and with the amorphous amylaceous matter found in vegetable cells. In the present communication are indi- cated some further points of analogy existing between chitin and cellu- lose. If, for example, fresh chitin be boiled during half an hour with five times its weight of caustic potash in a small quantity of water, a quantity of ammoniacal vapours are given off, it loses about half its weight, and changes its appearance without, however, losing its histological characters. In this state, tincture of iodine, either alone or combined with acetic acid, produces with it a violet, while iodized chloride of zinc gives to it a pure blue colour. It is soluble in acetic and tartaric acids, and in water acidulated with f$$th of nitric or bydrochloric acid, especially if a gentle heat be applied. It is precipitated from its solution by alcohol and by alkalies in the form of a semi-transparent jelly, which, when dried, is a yellowish substance like gum or dextrin. Dissolved in concentrated sulphuric acid, chitin yields a brown liquid ; if, however, fifteen or twenty times its volume of water be immediately added, it is thrown down as a white precipitate. Should the water not be added for twelve or twenty-four hours, part of the chitin will become changed into sugar, as can easily be shown by neutralising the solution with potash, aud boiling it with sulphate of copper. C. Schmidt (Dorpat).—On the so-called "Animal Starch" (Substance of the Amxjlaceous Corpuscles). Liebig's Annal., vol. cx, p. 250. Canst., vol. i, p. 220. Schmidt considers that the mere fact of an animal substance yielding a blue colour with iodine, or with iodine and sulphuric acid, is not of itself sufiicient proof that the substance under examination belongs to the amyloid group. He examined the amylaceous corpuscles in as pure a condition as it is possible to obtain them from the choroid plexus of the human brain, and attempted by different means to transform them into sugar, but without success. The author concludes, from the results obtained from his experiments, that the so-called "animal amyloid" does