PSYCHIATRIK. 185 Billod.—On Pellagra in Italy, and more particularly in the Lunatic Asylums of that Country. J. of Psycholog. Med., Oct., 186c. Billod states that the cause of pellagra is complex and variable ; it results from a combination of many hygienic conditions, of which the use of maize is one of the principal. Hood.—On the Condition of the Blood in Mania. Med.-Chir. Trans., i860, p. 159. Hood states, on the basis of three cases of acute mania and three of recurrent mania, that there is a marked deficiency of fibrine during the period of maniacal excitement, and a correction of this deficiency during convalescence. For the analyses, see Report on the Institutes of Medicine, page 34. Baillarger.—On Paralytic Dementia, and Mania with Ambitious Delirium. Gaz. Med. de Paris., No. 24. Ann. par Jamain., i860, p. 101. Baillarger concludes that ambitious mania and paralytic dementia are two separate disorders, which cannot be considered as the acute and chronic forms of the same affection (general paralysis, so called), but rather are as diverse as mania and simple dementia. He proposes, for ambitious mania, the appellation congestive, to distinguish it from simple mania. MUSCULAR STSTEM, INDEX. Banks.—Cases of Muscular Palsy, Cruveilhier's Disease. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Aug. 1 st. Piorry.—Rapid Cure of along-continuing Muscular Pain by Shampooing. Gaz. des Hopit., 49, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 300. Niemeyer.—Two Cases of Muscular Atrophy. Deutsche Klinik, No. 27. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 101. Sandahl.—Paralysing Muscular Atrophy. Berl. Med. Ztg., No. 28. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 102. Ciienevier.—Rheumatism of the Diaphragm. Journ. de Med. de Toulouse. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 48. Inman.—On Myalgia and Myositis. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 14th. Inman records seven 'cases of myalgia and myositis (pain, and inflammation of muscles), from which he draws the following infer- ences :—(1) That excessive use of a muscle may produce an inflamma- tory condition. (2) That this condition may subside without suppu- ration or organic change. (3) That resolution is favoured by absolute rest. (4 and 5) That myositis may be induced by slight exertion, if beyond the patient's strength. (6) That in such patients, debility or cachexia must be present, the latter resulting from various causes. He suggests, on the ground of his cases, (a) that the severe pains so common in scurvy, and the brawny hardness so constantly met with in the hams, calves, and thighs in that complaint, are due to myositis from over-exertion in individuals weakened by scorbutic cachexia; (b) that the hardness of the abdominal walls, so common in cancerous affections and in inflammations of the liver, may be due to myositis the result of over-exertion in a cachectic subject, or from the spread of