292 HKPOTIT ON SUnUKKV. Gant.—Two Cases of Excision of the Knee-joint ; Recovery. Lancet, Aug. 4, p. 109. Fergusson.—Removal of Necrosed Bone, and subsequent Excision of the Knee-joint ; Good Result. Med. Times and Gaz., May 26, p. 523. Symonds.— Case of Excision of the Knee-joint. ; Favorable Progress for a time; Death; Autopsy; Fatty Liver. Med. Times and Gaz., June 2, p. 550. Curling and Critciiett.—Two Cases of Resection of the Knee-joint. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 8, p. 240. Quain.—Scrofulous Disease of the Knee-joint ; Excision ; Recovery. Brit. Med. Jour., March 31, p. 240. King, Dr.—Excision of the Knee-joint; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., April 14, p. 366. Cadge.—Case of Synovial Disease of the Knee-joint ; Resection ; Sub- sequent Amputation ; Death. Billroth.—On the Resection of the Knee-Joint. Deutsche Klinik, No. 33. Canst., vol. v, p. 221. From the recorded experience of others, and from the personal observa- tion of six cases, Billroth concludes that the success of this resection depends more on the after-treatment than happens with other resections. He enumerates the following principles:—1. The patella and all portions of the synovial membrane, where possible, should be removed. Leaving the patella makes the wound less direct-than is desirable; whilst its cartilaginous surface, with the fatty synovial folds around it, protracts the suppuration. 2. Transverse incisions over the joint should, if possible, be avoided ; even with a single, long, anterior incision, the gravitation of pus towards the ham is not to be apprehended. 3. Great care should be taken, in sawing off the articular extremities, to make the limb as straight as possible. 4. If the cut runs through the condyles of the femur and head of the tibia, firm union may be expected with tolerable certainty; but the occurrence of this is doubtful, when the entire condyles of the femur, and the tibia below the tuberosity, are sawn off. 5. After this opera- tion the limb must be directly placed, by means of apparatus, in the straight position in which it is intended to remain. 6. The main point is to maintain perfect fixation, and complete impose of the ends of the bones. The retentive bandages ought to be so applied that the whole region of the joint is open to inspection without their removal. In per- forming the operation, two lateral incisions appear to Billroth to be the best; the joint retains a certain fixity in front; the greater difficulty in execution is no hindrance. Hitherto, however, he has followed Langen- beck in making a single long cut close to one or other side of the patella. Erichsen.—Diseased Tarsus ; Excision of the Os Calcis ; Recovery, with a Good Foot. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 15, p. 583. Tarsus.—Excision of Tarsal Bones. Med. Times and Gaz. (Report), May t2, p. 472. Erichsen.— Excision of the Astragalus; Useful Foot. Med. Times and Gaz., March 3 1, p. 316.