REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. 458 Kurzak finds that all the pnrts of the plant are poisonous, the flowers being less so than the rest. The active principle may he extracted hy water or alcohol. Two grammes either of the watery or alcoholic extract of the leaves, wood, or bark were fatal to a rabbit; and the author estimates that 6 grammes of either extract would induce death in man. Symptoms of poisoning presented themselves in the rabbit a quarter of an hour alter the administration of the drug; in birds, 10 minutes. The duration of fatal cases was, in the rabbit, i\—8 hours; in the frog, i£ hour; in the bird, 7—30 minutes. The following symptoms were observed:—In. small doses, weakness of the voluntary muscles, diminution and impair- ment of the respiratory movements, and of those of the heart, sensibility remaining unaltered ; these symptoms were followed by twitching! of the voluntary muscles. In large, i.e. fatal doses, two stages were distinguishable. In the first stage there was progressive impair- ment of voluntary muscular movement, increasing until the animal became motionless. The number both of pulsations and respirations per minute decreased rapidly, the former in one instance from 160 to 128, the latter from 60 to 32, in half an hour. At the same time the respiratory acts were diminished, and the inspiration was reduced to a mere jerk of the abdominal muscles. In the second stage, clonic or tonic spasms of most of the voluntary muscles occurred at long intervals, either dependent on feeble efforts of the animal, or produced by blowing or tapping on it. Finally, respiratory movements ceased, the heart con- tinuing for a short time its action, and retaining its excitability. The convulsions were observed most markedly in frogs, and were absent in birds. With the exception that in these animals and in dogs vomiting occurred, there were no signs of irritant poison. Post-mortem appearances.—Heart flaccid and full of blood ; accumula- tion of blood in the whole venous system ; in rabbits and frogs, redness of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestine attributable to extreme venous congestion. As remedies in cases of poisoning by oleander the author recommends aromatics and other stimulants, particularly tea and coffee, and relates a case successfully treated by the latter. Hasselt and Rienderhoff.—Contribution to the Toxico-dynamics of Santonine. Arch. f. holl. Beitr., vol. ii, p. 231. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 299. Experiments were made on frogs, rabbits, and dogs. In 40 experiments on dogs, which animals were found to be more susceptible of the action of sautonine than the others, it was given in doses varying from 6 to 60 grains. The authors conclude that santonine exerts its action mainly on the motor nerves, inducing muscular spasm, without increased sensibility. In fatal doses, the result occurs by asphyxia consequent on spasm of respiratory and laryngeal muscles. The appearances after death are hypersemia of the lungs, heart, and cerebrospinal vessels, and capillary injection of the medulla oblongata and spinalis. The orange-red colour of the urine induced in the human subject by santonine is also observed in animals. Smoler.—Poisoning by Croton Oil. Allg. Wen. Med. Ztg. No. 10, i860. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 289.