19 NERVOUS SYSTEM. strong induction current does not cause cessation of the heart's action. Division of the vagi, however, even now increases the frequency of the pulse; the increase in the number of the pulsations, therefore, depends on the vagus, and not on the accessory nerve, whilst the arrest of the heart's action depends on the accessory, and not on the vagus. In oppo- sition to Pfliiger's assertion, that feeble irritation does not increase the frequency of the pulse, Schiff remarks, that the amount of irritation lead- ing to augmented frequency is so limited that it easily escapes detection, a view which he supports by a considerable number of tabulated observa- tions. Further, the frequency of the pulse, he says, may be increased by mechanical or chemical irritation of the vagus, or of the medulla oblongata. Stimulation by galvanism of the splanchnic nerves increases the peri- staltic action of the intestines, as well as causes its cessation. And if the splanchnic nerves were the inhibitory nerves of the intestines, their sec- tion would be followed by increased vermicular movement. Schiff states, however, that he kept rats in perfect health for several weeks after he had destroyed the spinal roots of the splanchnic nerves, without observ- ing any increase in the movements of the intestines. Matteucci. —Results of Researches on the Electric FunctionoftheTorpedo. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 40, p. ^76. It has hitherto been believed that the action of the electric organ of the torpedo is momentary only; that it becomes charged under the influence of nervous action, and discharged immediately that action ceases, somewhat like soft iron under the influence of an electric current. Such, however, Matteucci thinks, is not the real state of the case. The electric organ is always charged. It may be shown by experiment that the action of that organ never ceases, and that round the body of the torpedo, and probably of every other electric fish, there is a continual circulation of electricity in the liquid medium in which the animal is immersed. In fact, when the electric organ, or even a frag- ment of it, is removed from the living fish, and placed between the ends of a galvanometer, the needle remains deflected at a constant an°le for twenty or thirty hours, or even longer. The electric organ, or a portion of it, detached from the fish and kept at the temperature of freezing, preserves its electro-motive properties for four, six, or even eight days; and an organ which has been kept for twenty-four hours in a vessel surrounded with a frigorific mixture of ice and salt, is found to possess an electro-motive power as great as that of the organ recently detached from the living fish. The electric organ thus retains its functional activity long after both muscular and nervous excitability have been extinguished. It would thus seem that the electric apparatus becomes charged and acts independently of the influence of the nerves ; but that influence re > news and renders persistent the activity of the apparatus. We know that a discharge may be brought about by the action of the will in the Jiving animal, or by the excitation of the nerves of the organ. Matteucci [says, that the organ does not, under the influence of the nerves, act as an induction apparatus, the operation being more analogous to that of a secondary pile,'' created, through the influence of the nerves, in each S constituent cell of the organ.