KBFO&C ON PBAOTICAX MEDICINE. 200 diminishing the blood globules by the solvent action of thin gas u them. Danieix.—Case of Ectopia Cordis. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 6th. In Daniell's case the heart was imperfectly developed, the septa of the auricles and ventricles being- imperfect; there was no pericardii in i. The heart was completely outside the chest in front of the sternum, through which the great vessels passed. The heart continued to act for about 4 hours after the birth of the infant, and gradually ceased. In all other respects the child was perfectly formed. Forster.—Case of Stenosis of the Aorta. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii., p. 34. Wurzb. Verb, x, 1. In Forster's case the canal of the aorta, just below the attachment of the duct Botal., was uniformly constricted by a kind of diaphragm, in the middle of which was a round opening z\ lines in diameter. The ascending aorta was dilated, and a rupture of a T shape was found at its concave side. The man, set. 33, had suffered from his youth with short breath and palpitation, and fell dead while skating. Forster.—Case of Purulent Endocarditis of the Mitral Valve. Atlas d. mikr. path. anat. Taf. 31. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 34. Forster reports the case of a female, set. 23, who, after several hours over-exertion in severe cold, was attacked with typhous symptoms, and died in 5 days. Besides the mitral valve disease, recent metastatic infarcta were found in the pia mater and brain, the muscular tissue of the heart, the thyroid, spleen, kidneys, and intestinal mucous mem- brane. Wedl.—On the Pathology of the Blood-vessels. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 34. Wien. 1859, Sitzungsber. d. Acad., 38 Bd., p. 265. Wedl has examined the changes occurring in the cerebral vessels during the cicatrization ensuing on apoplexy, and finds (a) that the capillaries, arteries, and veins become obliterated by a growth of nuclei in their walls; (b) that after a time the nuclei shrivel up and undergo fatty metamorphosis ; (c) that subsequently the fat becomes absorbed; and (d) the vessels arc converted into fasciculi of connective tissue. Fuhrer.—On some Outlets of the Circulation. Cellular Pathology. Archiv. f. physiol. Heilk. Jahrg., 1859, Part 2, 3. Fuhrer strongly opposes Virchow's doctrines of cell-pathology, and endeavours to show that Virchow's connective tissue cells and then- processes are only the plasmatic system described by Lessing. This is supposed to communicate on one side fHth the capillaries, on the other, with the lymphatics. The corpuscles on this view arc mere enlarge- ments of the plasmatic vessels. In a second paper, he contends for the production of cells in a blastema, independently of pre-existing cells as the general rule, at least, in the normal state. Samuel.—Inflammation produced by Irritation of Nerves. Konigsberg, Med. Jahrb., Vol. i, Part 3, p. 237.