42 EEPOItT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. therefrom that, as an alkali is set free when albumen coagulates, so an acid is liberated when nerve-substance passes into the same state. (5) In animals poisoned with strychnine, the fresh nerve-substance is not neutral, but acid. (6) The continued stimulation of a frog's nerve by galvanism in like manner causes the nerve-substance to yield an acid reaction. It appears, therefore, that nervous action is accompanied by, or associated with, the liberation of a free acid. Budge.—On the Different Degrees of Sensibility in one and the same Nerve. Virchow's Archiv., vol. xviii, p. 457. Schmidt, vol. 108, If the sciatic nerve of a frog be exposed throughout its course, from the vertebral canal down to its attachments with the muscles, and a stimulus applied to different portions, it will be found that the sensibility of the nerve is least at its lower, greatest at its upper part. In fact, that the sensibility diminishes in proportion to the distance of the nerve-centre ; and therefore that a stimulus capable of exciting muscular contraction when applied to the nerve close to its attachment to the spinal cord, may fail to produce any movements when applied in the neighbourhood of the muscles them- selves. This result is the reverse of what is obtained from a dying nerve. In it, the sensibility increases as we proceed from the centre to the circum- ference ; so that a stimulus too weak to excite any muscular contraction when applied to the upper, may still induce it when applied to the lower portion of the nerve. Budge further states, that in a perfectly healthy and fresh nerve there are certain points which are much more sensitive than others, and consequently form exceptions to the above-named law. Brown-Sequard.—Experimental Researches on various Questions con- cerning Sensibility. Proc. Koy. Soc, No. 40, p. 510. Brown-Se'quard applied two ligatures to the femoral artery, and after having divided the vessel between the ligatures, amputated the thigh com- pletely, excepting, however, the two large nerves of the limb, which were left as free from injury as possible. The results obtained were,—1st. That the duration of sensibility in the toes, in rabbits, varies between twenty and twenty-three minutes. 2d. That, in guinea-pigs, the duration varies between forty and fifty minutes. In one case the sensibility lasted a little more than an hour. 3d. That, in dogs, the duration of sensibility varies between thirty and thirty-five minutes. The second question examined by the author is the influence of temper- ature on the duration of sensibility in parts deprived of the circulation of the blood. Amputated limbs of guinea-pigs were dipped into water at various temperatures, and the results were as follows : 1 st. Water at 1040, Fahr., duration of sensibility, in average, forty-one minutes. 2d. Water at 8o° Fahr., duration of sensibility, forty-nine minutes. 3d. Water at 500 Fahr., duration of sensibility, fifty-three minutes. 4th. Water at 35° Fahr., duration of sensibility, fifty-eight minutes. These results show that the lower the temperature, the longer sensi- bility persists in parts deprived of circulation. The third question discussed is whe ther an augmentation in the vital pro- perties of the spinal cord is able to influence the duration of sensibility of a limb deprived of the circulation of the blood. In one series of experiments