57 PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF FOOD, ETC. with both tea and coffee; but as they contain alcohol, they correspond more closely with the latter. Dr. Marcet.—An Experimental Inquiry into the Action of Alcohol on the Nervous System. Head to the British Association for the Advancement of Science, at the Meeting held at Aberdeen, in 1859, and printed in extenso in the ' Medical Times and Gazette' for March 3d, 17th, and 31st, i860. The object of this communication is to establish, by a series of experi- ments, the mode of action of alcohol on the nervous centres, or rather the channel through which alcohol acts on these centres. When a spirituous fluid is taken into the stomach, its influence maybe conveyed to the brain, spinal cord, and sympathetic system, by different channels. According to some physiologists, the properties of alcohol are exerted on the nervous centres through the nerves only; others believe that intoxication does not occur unless the poison has come in contact with the brain, by means of the circulation; finally, it is thought by some that alcohol acts on the nervous centres in both ways. In order to contribute to the solution of this question, Marcet undertook the investigations which form the sub- ject of the above-named paper. The author's experiments are divided into three series. In the first he studied the action of alcohol on the healthy animal, choosing the frog on the one hand, and the dog on the other. In the second the nerves supplying the parts placed in contact with the alcohol were divided, the circulation remaining undisturbed; frogs only were used in this series of experiments. In the third series the circulation in the parts in contact with the alcohol was arrested, so that none of the poison could possibly be carried to the nervous centres ; care being, at the same time, taken to leave the nervous connexions between the parts poisoned and the nerve- centres entire. Frogs and dogs were employed in these experiments. The chief conclusions to be drawn from the experiments related in this paper are as follows : 1. That alcohol acts principally, though not exclusively, on the nerve- centres by means of absorption, and consequently through the circulation. 2. That alcohol exerts a slight, but decided, action on the nerve-centres, through the nerves, independently of the circulation. 3. That the action transmitted through the nerves maybe of two kinds— («) It may give rise to a shock, or temporary complete suspension of sensibility and motility (with the exception perhaps of that of the eye- lids), although respiration continues. (6) It may produce no other visible effect than hastening death. Lallemand, Perrin, and Duroy.—On the Action of Alcohol, of Anaes- thetics, and of Carbonic Acid Gas, on the Cerebrospinal Nervous System. Compt. Rend., Sept., i860, p. 400. _ The authors detail several experiments which they performed, and give the following as their conclusions: 1. Alcohnl, chloroform, ether, and amylene, act directly and primarily on the nervous system. 2. Carbonic acid and the oxide of carbon act directly and primarily on the blood, which they modify, and it is by means of this modification of