GEXITO-TJIUNAItY SYSTEM. 99 their food and occupation, the latter being the principal cause, and re- gulating the other. _ 2. Men employed only in manual or routine bodily labour are suffi- ciently well fed on vegetable diet, and discharge on an average 400 grains of urea per day, of which 300 grains are spent in vital, and 100 grains in mechanical work. This conclusion, the author says, is in conformity with the experience of the mass of mankind employed in manual labour in all ages and countries. 3. When the work is of a higher order, a better quality of food must be supplied, sufficient to allow of a daily discharge of 533 grains of urea, of which 300 grains, as before mentioned, are spent in vital work, and 233 grains in mental work and the mechanical work which is necessary to keep the body in health. 4. The quantity of urea discharged per day varies also with the weight of the individual, which influences the vital and mental work. 5. The habits, weight, and occupation of an individual enable us to ac- count for a range of the diurnal quantity of urea varying from 300 to 630 grains per day ; and this discharge may be confidently predicted, when the habits and weight are known. Finally, when in any case, the discharge of urea exceeds that cal- culable from the preceding data, it must be attributed to ill health, and most generally to that most fatal of all diseases to which man is liable— anxiety of mind; a vague and unscientific expression, which, he thinks, however, denotes a real disease. This fact alone, our author says, would render the preceding inves- tigation of importance to the physician, as it enables him, in a given case, to pronounce whether there is an excess of urea or not, and a conse- quent waste of the system. He points out how the mere quantity will not decide this question, as from 300 to 630 grains maybe discharged by persons in perfect health, according to their peculiar occupation and physical conditions. Prof. Beale.—A Course of Lectures on Urine, Urinary Deposits, and Calculi. Lect, v, Brit. Med. Journ., 21st April, p. 297, and suc- ceeding numbers. In speaking of precipitates likely to be confounded with albumen, Beale remarks that he obtained a precipitate of uric acid, on adding a little nitric acid to the urine of a patient suffering from large hydatid tumours of the liver. The crystals thus formed were redissolved on the application of heat; but, as the solution cooled, they were again deposited in the form of much larger crystals. A specimen of urine, exhibiting the same peculiarity, contained an excess of urea. Upon the addition of half its bulk of nitric acid, the mixture became nearly solid from the for- mation of crystals of nitrate of urea. The deposit in this instance con- sisted partly of urate of soda. Another specimen of urine from a man, set. 49, suffering from rheumatic fever, contained much urate of soda, gave a precipitate with nitric acid, and cleared on the addition of heat. It also occasionally happens that, when albumen is present, no precipitate is produced by heat, after the addition of a few drops of nitric acid. Dr. Bence Jones thinks that this arises from the nitric acid combining with the albumen to form the nitrate of albumen, which is soluble in a weak