GENERAL SYSTEM, TREATISES. 143 unnecessarily shy of bleeding, he believes that there is a general lowering of the grade of action, which requires less depletion than did the same classes of disease in former years. Bedford, Brown.—Some Remarks on the Adynamic Type of Remittent Fever, and its Treatment with Nitric Acid, Americ. J. of Med. Sc., Jan., i860. Bedford notices softening of the muscular tissue of the heart, of the brain, and of the liver, as well as of other organs, as the most remarkable morbid changes found in the bodies of those who have died from adynamic remittent. The symptoms are essentially those of a low fever, delirium being rarely at all violent. Nitric acid, in doses of from 12 to 40 drops in the day, seemed to be of great efficacy; not a single fatal case occurred where it was used freely and constantly. For the abdominal complications of certain cases, the internal use of nitrate of silver was found valuable. WALLER.—Contributions to the Solution of some Questions respecting Syphilis. Prag. Vierteljahrschr. lxiii., 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 47. In contradiction of Lorinser's statements, Waller affirms, as the result of analyses made on 8 syphilitic patients, that mercury, when taken into the body, in any way, is eliminated spontaneously by the kidneys, and can be demonstrated in the urine, no iodide of potassium having been taken. Its presence in the urine is, therefore, no sign of a mercurial cachexia, no indication of the necessity of administering Pot. Iod., nor of discon- tinuing mercurial treatment. No cure of syphilis results on the com- plete elimination of mercury from the system. The characteristic phenomena of pure secondary syphilis, immodified by mercurialization, in fact, its natural course, are then described, and shown to be essentially similar to those which are observed in patients who have taken mercury. It appears clearly, that the administration of mercury for primary symptoms does not hasten, but rather delays, the appearance of secondary. The author concludes by maintaining that it is fully proved that constitutional syphilis exists, and that it has yet to be shown that there is any mercurial cachexia capable of producing similar morbid conditions as are observed in syphilis. G1 cert.—On the Infeclibiliiy of Secondary Syphilitic Symptoms. Bull, de l'Acad., xxiv, May, June, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 50. Gibcrt's report contains the replies of the French Academy of Medicine to two questions submitted to them by the Minister of Public Works, viz., (1) Are the symptoms of constitutional syphilis contagious? (2) Aro the symptoms produced in sucklings by the contagion of secondary syphilitic accidents different from those observed in adults? The reporter, from four experiments of his own, fully confirms the statement of Rinecker, which are as follows:—(1) The specific local reaction, after inoculation from secondaiy accidents, docs not appear before the expiration of the second week; as a rale, not until after the fourth. This long period of incubation, therefore, forms a very charac-