445 POISONS AND POISONING. concludes from experiments on animals, that although this form of metallic arsenic exercises less influence on the organism, and retains longer its metallic nature in the alimentary canal than any other, it produces death, preceded by the characteristic phenomena of arsenical poisoning. He also rebuts the assertions of Schmidt and Brettschneider, giving satisfactory proof of the purity of the arsenic employed. Schmidt and Chomse. — On the Action of Oxide of Kakodyl and Ka/codylic Acid. Moleschott, vol. vi, p. 2. Canst., vol. v, p. 87. Nine experiments were made on various animals. The oxide was administered internally, or in the gaseous form, and the acid was given externally, or injected into the jugular vein. The results were as follows :— After the administration of either compound, kakodyl can be recognised in the urine and in the serum of the blood, either by the phosphorous acid test, or by that with hydrochloric acid and zinc. Neither compound owes its activity to the arsenic it contains, nor is there any relation between their action and that of the metal or its salts. The poisonous action of oxide of kakodyl (alcaisin) is entirely due to the violent oxida- tion which it undergoes in the stomach, at the expense of the water and organic matters contained in it. On the other hand, kakodylic acid, when swallowed is deoxidized. In the one case, kakodylic acid and the inter- mediate compound, KdO, KdO"3, are produced; in the other, the kakodylic acid already existing is partially converted into the same body. Both compounds enter the circulation: kakodylic acid has no action, and is excreted as such by the kidneys, in combination with an alkali; KdO, Kd03 is highly poisonous, its existence in the blood being indicated by increased action of the heart, accelerated breathing, extreme muscular weakuess, paralysis of the iris, and stupor. The paper contains other results of interest. Schmidt and StUkzwage.— On the Influence of Arsenious Acid on the Exchange of Material. Moleschotts Unters., vol. vi, p. 283. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 175. The authors' experiments were made on fowls and cats ; and the exchange of material was measured by the carbonic acid exhaled, and the urea excreted. The general result was, that arsenious acid produces a very marked diminution (amounting to from 20 to 40 per cent.) of meta- morphosis of tissue. This takes place after very small doses, and more quickly when the acid is introduced directly into the veins than when swallowed. This fact is considered to explain the fattening of horses on small doses of white arsenic. F. H. S.—On the Influence of Arsenious Acid upon the Waste of the Animal Tissues. Chem. News, Nov. 3d. A summary of facts and opinions confirmatory of the conclusions of Schmidt and Stiirzwage. Church.—Note on the Arsenical Water of Whitbeck, Cumberland. Chem. News, Aug. 25th. In the village of Whitbeck, a natural water containing nearly a grain of metallic arsenic in a gallon is used habitually by the inhabitants