144 REPORT ON PRACTICAL M KlUCINK. teristic feature. (2) The symptom which ariseB on the inoculated spot remains a long time limited to it, ami runs its course very slowly; so that, if no medical treatment intervenes, it is still constantly present at the commencement of the general accidents. (3) The form under which the local affection appears is that of cutaneous tubercles, which pass into superficial ulceration or into fungous growths. The nearest lymphatic glands arc generally swollen. (4) The general symptoms do not appear before the fourth week after the first manifestation of the local affection, often much later. The replies to the ministerial questions, proposed by Gibert, and adopted by the Academy, were:— (1) There are secondary or constitutional symptoms of syphilis, which are communicable by contagion. The mucous tubercle (broad condy- loma) ranks first of these. (2) The same conclusion is applicable also to sucklings and nurses, and there is no ground to assume that in sucklings the disease shows other properties than in adults. Ricord criticised the report, but seems to have admitted, at last, that the facts were unanswerable. Ricord's observations had always been made on the syphilitic, while Gibert's were made on persons free from every trace of syphilis, but suffering with inveterate lupus of the face. Forman.—Notes on an Epidemic of Diphtheria. Edin. Med. J., June, i860. Forman, out of a little agricultural community of 19 individuals, observed 4 suffering from genuine diphtheria, 5 from diphtheritic sore throat, 3 from scarlatina, and 3 from tonsillitis, while 4 escaped. The sanitary arrangements of the locality presented no defect, except that the water supply contained an unduly large amount of organic matter —2-o8 grains per gallon. Dcncalfe.—Gonorrheal and Syphilitic Rheumatism. Brit. Med. J., June 9th, i860. Duncalfe endeavours to show that rheumatism, when it occurs during the progress of venereal disease, is to be considered not simply as a concomitant, but as dependent on that disease. He relates a case in which Pot. Iod. was of no use until after mercury had been adminis- tered, when it became of great service. Bell,—Contributions to the Pathology and Therapeutics of Typhus Fever. Glasgow Med. J., Jan., April, July, Oct., i860. Bell contends that typhus, like every other malady, has a local habitation, in which it specially manifests itself, and also that secondary local diseases occur, often proving more fatal than the primary. After giving the details of c fatal cases, with autopsies, he comments (1) upon the condition of the heart ; (2) upon that of the intestinal mucous membrane. The fibres in the softened cardiac tissue are sometimes destroyed, sometimes more or less altered, undergoing change into a yellow granular substance, abounding 111 oil globules. The left ventricle is much more frequently affected than the right, the outer layers being much more changed than the inner. As to the nature of the softening, Bell inclines to consider that it is produced by an asthenic inflammatory process. He has found it co-existmg. in