DISEASES OF PREGNANCY AND CHILDBED. 383 state of sopor in five, and from secondary puerperal diseases in two. The attacks were most severe and most numerous in the fatal cases. The post-mortem appearances in the nine cases were— anaemia and watery condition of the brain, six times ; hyperemia, once ; intermeningeal apo- plexy, once ; normal condition of brain, once ; hyperemia and inflammatory exudation in the kidneys in three cases, fatty degeneration in four, atrophy in one case ; in one case no morbid change. In four cases there was oedema of lungs ; in two, puerperal peritonitis; in one, stenosis of one ureter; in one, tubercle of lungs. As regards the children, the results were as follows :—In all save one (breech case) the presentation was cranial. Of eighteen children (twins twice), fifteen were horn alive, three dead. In the ten cases where con- vulsions occurred first during the dilatation period, nine children were born alive and two dead. One of these deaths was due to craniotomy. In the other cases, when the convulsions occurred later, the children were born alive, the case of turning excepted. As regards the treatment—in five cases venecsection was employed. Of these, three died; in one the attacks became more violent after its use; once vensesection and chloroform inhalation combined produced cessation of the attacks, and in one the attacks were rendered less severe by their means ; not more than ten ounces of blood were drawn. Chloroform inhalation was employed in six cases; the duration and intensity of the attacks were lessened by its use; they were not unfrequently cut short by it if had recourse to when the attack was impending. In twelve cases opium was extensively used, and it was most advantageously given in large doses, so as at once to produce deep sleep. To promote diuresis lemon-juice, tartaric acid, and benzoic acid were administered. Cold appli- cations to the head were used. In the ten cases where the first attack occurred during the dilatation period the delivery was hastened—in four cases by introducing a flexible catheter ; in one of these the colpeurynter was also used; in four the os uteri was dilated by the fingers; in one nothing of an analogous kind was done. In six the forceps were used ; in one, perforation was performed ; in one, turning, and in one the Csesarean section. Alf. Liegaud.—On Puerperal Eclampsia and its Treatment, (Memoir crowned at the Concours of 1858.) Ann.delaSoc.Med.-Chir.de Bruges, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 445. In this memoir twenty-eight cases are related. The author concludes, from a review of the whole, that vensesection is generally injurious ; that the greatest reliance is to be placed on chloroform inhalation. He recom- mends the latter not merely during the attacks, but as a prophylactic. Epileptiform Eclampsia in a Woman during the Puerperal State; Action 0/Sulphate of Quinine. Monit. des Hop., 3, 1859. Canst., vol iv P- 445- Dr. PlttBlE.—Observations on the Treatment of Puerperal Eclamjisia. Dub. Quart. Journ., May, i860, p. 461. John G. Johnson.—Apoplectic Puerperal Convulsions; Recovery with Hemiplegia. Am. Med. Times, Oct. 6th, i860.