REPORT ON I'BACTICAI, MEDICINE. 18G inflammation from tin; liver to the recti and obliqui; (c) that tie few cases in which jnyftjg^q pains are relieved by local bleeding are those in which over-exertion has produced a quasi-inllaininalory condition in the affected muscle. Inman.—On the Physical Condition of the Muscles during Myalaia. Brit Med. J., Feb. 4th. Inman, from examination of the muscles of tetanic patients and those of a coursed hare, states that excessive muscular action will produce rupture of muscular fibres and their associated blood-vessels. lie argues that in weakly persons similar effects may be produced by exertion which, though actually small, is to them excessive. lie gives sketches of the appearances observed in the muscles of the hare. Inman.—Myositis and Myalgia; Dyspepsia and Phlegmasia Dolens. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 25th. Inmau records cases of inflamed and sore throat, and of phlegmasia dolens, which he supposes to have been produced by extension of inflammation from over-strained muscles, the stcrno-mastoid in the neck, the psoas-iliacus in the pelvic region. Bamberger.—On Progressive Muscular Atrophy. Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vi, 7, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 171. Bamberger reports three cases, and states his opinion that the affection is primarily of the muscles, not of the nerves. In two of his cases, there seemed ground to suspect the hereditary nature of the disorder. Chills and over-exertion are the other principal causes. VrRcnow and Zenker.—On Trichina Spiralis in Man. Med. T. and Gaz., May 26th. Virchow and Zenker record a case in which a robust female a?t. 24 years was admitted with symptoms resembling those of typhoid fever. " A remarkable affection of the whole muscular system now rapidly super- vened, consisting in extreme painfullness of the extremities, with con- tractions of knee and elbow joints, and oedematous swelling, particularly of the legs." Subsequently, pneumonia set in, and the patient sank. Triclmnc, in various stages of development, were found in all the striated muscles of the body excepting the heart, as well as in tin: intestinal mucus. It was ascertained that some ham and sausages, prepared at the house where she had resided, was full of trichina?, and it is probable that she had eaten some of the raw meat. Experiments made by feeding rabbits with flesh containing trichinae, show that death ensues in about a mouth with symptoms of general muscular paralysis. The trichina? arc found in the mesenteric glands, and hi all the striated muscles of the body. CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. Earnshaw.—Case of Anewism of the Arch of the Aorta. Lancet, Feb. nth, i860.