MANUALS, UENEltAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. 9 2d. In the next place, Wilks states that the general opinion regarding the malignancy and henignancy of all tumours depending, in the one case, on a constitutional, in the other, on a local cause, is, in a great measure, cor- rect ; for we cannot but distinguish between a tumour arising, for example, from an injury in a healthy person and the case of manifold growths exist- ing in a patient whose ancestors were the subjects of the same disease. The fact, too, of the production in any new growth of elements similar to the healthy part whence it springs exhibits a healthy influence in operation; and if, from the complexity of the original organ (lung, liver, &c), the formation of a growth resembling it be not possible, then the production of the highest grade of tumour which is possible under the circumstances may be taken as evidence of the same fact. 3d. On the other hand, all morbid products which have no develop- mental power, but consist simply of cells, show a want of healthy influence, whether these cells arise in a complex organism or in a simple structure. Such are generally styled cancer, and, evidencing some vice in the consti- tution, are also called malignant. It will be seen that this opinion tends to the belief that a cell-growth is evidence of a malignant, a fibrous of an innocent,influence in operation, and that the production of the one rather than of the other depends on a constitutional cause. Our author thinks that at present it would be too much to assert this dogmatically. 4th. Wilks further adds that, although there is no characteristic cance.r- cell, if a new growth is composed of a mass of cells, each containing a large nucleus, with a distinct nucleolus, little hesitation need be felt in pronouncing it malignant; at the same time it must be remembered that, in the most virulent forms of cancer, it not unfrequently happens that no cells are present. When the cells in any tumour show a tendency to de- velop into fibre, so far that is an evidence of a corresponding innocent influence in operation, and, therefore, just in proportion as we find in any given tumour a crude formation of cells and nuclei, or a tendency to the formation of fibre, so can we pronounce upon its degree of malignancy or innocency. 5th. Nuclei surrounded by a cell-wall show a disposition to develop, and, consequently, a tumour consisting of them has one degree less of a morbid character than a tumour consisting merely of nuclei. And thus it is that well-marked, nucleated cells are always found in tumours of slow growth, and in those little disposed to spread. Again, it may be said that, should the cells in any growth tend to develop still more, and become pointed or angular in shape, they show that a still greater amount of healthy influence is in operation. In scirrhus we generally meet with such cells, and scirrhus, we know, is a much less virulent form of cancer than encephaloid. 6th. In the recurrent or malignant fibroid growth, the cells have a great tendency to grow into fibres, and the tumour has a less malignant character than if it consisted simply of cells without fibres. Recurrent fibroid may be said to hold an intermediate place between cancer and a simple, fibrous tumour, and might be designated semi-malignant. 7th. Between these three kinds—malignant, semi-malignant, and inno- cent tumours—there are many intermediate varieties, and we think the following table illustrates the author's views as regards the classification of new growths pretty clearly: