GK.NERAL SURGERY. 265 STMONDS, F.—On the General Treatment of Patients before and after Surgical Operations. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 13, p. 351. The author's remarks refer to the means of preventing the secondary complications, which often bring the most promising case to a fatal issue. He insists on a careful examination of the internal organs before under- taking an operation, with a view to improve the condition of any which may be found faulty, and shows the great importance which attaches to a fatty state of the liver. The necessity of free ventilation is inculcated, and chlorine recommended as a deodorant. Diet should be regulated according to the real wants of the case. Good broth, with vegetables boiled in it, is better than beef-tea. Lastly, medicines which (like iodide of potassium) are slowly eliminated from the system, should be discon- tinued before an operation, and large doses of opium should not be indis- criminately given after it. Hilton.—A Course of Lectures on Pain, and the Therapeutic Influence of Mechanical and Physiological Rest, in Accidents and Surgical Diseases. Lancet, Aug. nth, and following Nos. Prichard, Aug. — Ten Tears of Operative Surgery in the Provinces. Brit. Med. Jour., Oct. 6th, p. 776; 13th, p. 795 ; 20th, p. 818; 27th, p. 833 ; Nov. 3d, p. 856; 10th, p. 876; 17th, p. 893. Regionally arranged : 1. Operations on face, tongue, palate, neck, and chest. 2. Hare-lip. Prichard uses strong scissors and German pins. 3. Cancer of lip—staphyloraphy. Prichard simply pared the edges of the cleft palate without cutting levatores palati, and three out of four cases succeeded. 4. Tracheotomy and thoracentesis. 5. Abdomen and lower bowel. Maunder.—Operative Surgery. Parti. London, J. Churchill, i860. A profusely illustrated, descriptive manual of operations, adapted to the dead and living subject. Brown, John.—Notes on the Surgery of the Indian Campaign of 1857-58. Edin. Medical Jour. A description of the most important features in the surgical cases which came under the author's notice. Stromeyer, L. D.—Maxims of Military Surgery. Hanover, 1861. This is the second edition, enlarged and illustrated, of this well- known work. Loffler.—Principles and Rules for the Treatment of Gunshot Wounds in War. Berlin, Aug. Hirsehwald, 1859. Part 2, " In the Field Hospital." Gurlt.—On the Transport of the Badly Wounded and Sic/c in War, with Suggestions on the Employment of Railroads fur this mtrnose Berlin, i860. • Burggraefe, A.—Theoretical and Practical Surgery. Ghent. Care!., 1859-60. Canst., vol. v, p. 206.