408 REPORT OX MIDWIFERY, ETC. umbilical cord of the latter in a reversed direction. There is a perfect series of transitions from the two perfectly separated placentas to that present in the case of the acardiac fcctns. First, we have the agglutinated double placenta of twins, with a double chorion, where only very small communicating branches exist. In the next category we have the appa- rently single placenta of a double ovum, with single chorion and two amnionic cavities. Next comes the actually single or acardiac placenta, with one capillary system, which belongs to the normal foetus. There is a fourth form, with a bifurcated umbilical cord; the result ljein<r equally the formation of an acardiac fcetus. Up to the time of the formation of the placenta and the anastomosis of the vessels, a perfectly functionally acting heart must have existed in each fcetus. The blood-wave from each heart then meeting, a recoil takes place towards each heart. As long as both hearts contract equally, both conspire to one end : but if one heart contracts less powerfully than the other, the result is that its action is overpowered by the other, and finally arrested alto- gether. Hence in the acardiac fcetus the current of the blood passing through the umbilical artery is reversed. There is less hindrance to the passage of blood into the organs which are near the entrance of the umbilical arteries into the hypogastric; hence the fact that in the acardiac fcetus the lower extremities and sides of the body, also the kidney and the rectum, are well developed. The origin of the acardiac fcetus may be as early as the fifth week. The first circumstance which gives rise to the formation of an acardiac fcetus is an accidental location of the placentar vessels of the two foetuses. Gross and Heim. — Rare Monstrosity, Hernia Cordis. Wurt. Corr. Elatt., No. 29. Canst., vol. iv, p. 12. Daniell.— Case of Ectopia Cordis. (Drawing.) Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 6th, i860, p. 776. The heart, denuded of its pericardium, projected through the chest walls. It> continued pulsating, more or less forcibly, for four hours after the birth of the child. In conclusion, the author collates analogous ob- servations of this rare malformation both at home and abroad. Heschl.—Defect of the Brain and Hydrocejrfialus. Prag. Viertel., 1859, vol. i, p. 59. Dr. Anstie.—Anencephalous Foetus. Path. Soc. Med. Times and Gaz., April 21st, i860, p. 408. Browne.—Congenital Malformation of the Pupils. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., June 15th, i860, p. 184. In a little girl, set. 10. the right pupil is transverse, and has a double aperture ; in the left it is single, but also transverse. Dr. Broca (de Sainte Foy).—Two cases of Spvia Bifda of the Lumbar Region in individuals who have lived to the adult age. Gaz. Hop., Aug. 4, i860. . The one that of a man, who lived to the age of 43 ; the other that of a girl, who lived to the age of 23.