328 RIH'ORT ON SURGERY. favorable circumstances, heals spontaneously; but it does undergo a retrograde change, ending in atrophy. In the acute stage, Stellway recommends ice and leeches. Of caustics, Stellway prefers a broad, smooth piece of sulphate of copper. He deprecates the use of the solid nitrate of silver ; it destroys too deeply, and produces scars. Borelli. A Neio and Surely-acting Plan of Curing Granular Con- junctiva. Giornale d'Oftalmologia Italiano, vol. i. Canst., vol. iii, p. 108. SlCHEL, J.— On the Surgical Treatment of Granular Lids, after Hippo- crates. Annal. d'Oculist, Nov., Dec, 1859. Canst., vol. iii, p. 108. Borelli recommends the scarification of the granulations with a new, brush-like instrument, and Sichel describes the scarification and cauteriza- tion as laid down by Hippocrates. 9. Cornea. Arnold.—The Conjunctiva of the Cornea, and Arcus Senilis. Heidelberg, i860. (Tract.) Hancock.—Case of Conical Cornea, Impaired Vision, and Short-sight; Nocturnal Pain, and Morning Lachrymation ; Hancock's Operation, followed by Good Residts. Lancet, July 7, p. 7. Before division of the ciliary muscle, the patient " could not see the largest letters upon signboards at the distance of a yard or two, and when reading was obliged to hold the book close to her eyes. Afterwards she could read at eight or nine inches, and the cornea looked much flattened." 10. Iris. Wilson, H.—Remarkable Case of Polycoria. Med. Times and Gaz , p. 392, April 21. An account of a case where, from a congenital (?) defect of tissue, several apertures existed in the iris. The author refers to a description by Wilde, 'Dub. Quart. Jour. Med. Sc.,' vol. vi, p. 173. Hutchinson, J.— On Iritis as it occurs in Syphilitic Infants. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 31, July 14. The author gives a tabular statement of twenty-one cases, from which he deduces the following conclusions: 1. That the subjects of infantile iritis are much more frequently of the female than the male sex. 2. That syphilitic infants are most liable to iritis at about the age of five months. 3. That syphilitic iritis in infants is often symmetrical, but quite as frequently not so. 4. That iritis, as it occurs in infants, is seldom complicated, and is attended by but few of the more severe symptoms which characterise the disease in the adult. 5. Notwithstanding the ill-characterised phenomena of acute inflamma- tion, the effusion of lymph is usually very free, and the danger of occlu- sion of the pupil great.