PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF FOOD, ETC. 59 The action of medicines resembles, in every respect, that of poisons, and, according to Bernard, .nerves, muscles, blood-globules, and other tissues, enjoy peculiar vital properties, the intensity of which is modified through medical interference, sometimes for the purpose of increasing, sometimes for that of lowering, their activity; and the action of foreign bodies, whe- ther medicinal or poisonous, can be rendered general only through the nervous or vascular system. But, in this respect, a wide distinction arises between sensitive and motor fibres, which experiments on living animals have placed in a strong light. Let, he says, for example, woorara be injected into an animal's veins, or simply introduced under the skin after the vessels of one of its extremities have been tied, and the motor nerves are paralysed throughout the system, and it becomes impossible to produce muscular contraction by acting upon them; but the nerves of that single I limb, the vessels of which have been tied, alone retain their physiological power. He concludes his remarks by saying, that the effects of medicinal agents are to be explained by the modifications they produce in the primi- tive elements of which our tissues are composed. G. Bodington.—The Physiological Effects of Opium. Brit. Med. Journ., June 9th, p. 455. Bodington believes that the possibility of giving large doses of opium in cases of delirium tremens, not only with impunity, but even with ad- vantage, arises from the circumstance that alcohol has to a certain extent the power of controlling the physiological effects of opium. Hence it is that, when the system is, so to speak, saturated with alcohol, opium becomes comparatively innocuous. The author further states that the use of opium should be specially guided by the previous habits of the patient, and that the modern salts of the drug seem to be the most dangerous form in which it can be given. " The native opium contains constituent ingredients of a contrary character, which are counteractive of each other. Laudanum, holding all these in solution, is the safest form, inasmuch as the alcohol, the solvent, in some measure acts as an antidote." Dr. Gk orge D. Gibb.—On the Value of the Sanguinaria Canadensis, as a Remedial Agent. Glas. Med. Journ., July, i860, p. 121. 1. An infusion of the root produces no influence on plants while they are in the ground ; but if removed and immersed in the infusion, they droop and die. 2. Insects immersed in an infusion of the root die with spasmodic movements of the chest and wings. 3. Fenwick, of Montreal, found that a large dose acted as a powerful irritant poison on dogs and cats, causing frothing at the mouth, vomiting, purging, thirst, dilatation of the pupils, impairment of the vision, convul- sions, coma, and death. One drachm of the freshly powdered root proved fatal to a young cat, with the above symptoms, in four hours; while two drachms given to a dog was fatal within the same period. After death, patches of injection, redness, and softening of the mucous membrane of \ the stomach and intestines were found. When given to men in small * doses, digestion is excited, the pulse accelerated, and the cerebral functions I exalted. In larger doses it produces nausea, and acts upon the circulation c something like digitalis. An overdose produces violent vomiting, burning » sensation in the stomach, tormenting thirst, faintness, vertigo, indistinct