333 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. Tuppebt.—0" the Treatment of Club-foot. Bayer, aerztl. Int. 131., 3, 1859. Schmidt, Nr. 1, vol. 105, p. 90. Tamplin, R. W.—A course of Lectures on the Nature and Treatment of Deformities. Delivered at the Royal Orthopedic Hospital, May. Brit. Med. Jour., June itfth, p. 449 ; 23d, p. 469 ; July 7th, p. 515; 14th, p. S36 5 28lh> P- 573 5 August 4th, p. 641. Adams, W.—On the Reparative Process in Human Tendons after Sub- cutaneous Division for the Cure of Deformities; ivith an Account of the Appearances presented in Fifteen Post-mortem Examinations in the Human Subject; also a Sei-ies of Experiments on Rabbits, and a R6sume of the English and Foreign Literature of the Subject. London, J. Churchill, i860. Coote, Holmes.— On Diseases of the Joints and Deformities—1. Curvature of the Spin?. London Monthly Med. Rev., July, P- 9- Brodhurst, B. E.—Cases of Jntra-uterine Fracture, with Observations on the Analogy between Fracture in Utero and Congenital Distortion. Med.-Chir. Trans. Many carefully observed cases of intra-uterine fracture of the foetal limbs, and of congenital deformities, happening after injuries to the mother, have been collected by the author in support of the opinion that " fracture in utero and congenital distortion have this in common, that physical injury has excited abnormal muscular action in the foetus." Startin, James.—Novel Operation for the Cure of Deformity of the Left Side of the Face resulting from Paralysis of the Right Side, with Successful Residt. Med. Times and Gaz., March 17, p. 263. Startin divided subcutaneously the muscles of expression on the left side of the face of a young lady who had suffered from infancy from paralysis of the portio dura of the right side. The least attempt to speak or smile was attended with distortion of the left cheek, the right remaining without expression. Myotomy was followed by great improve- ment. Hoppe.—Extempore Apparatus for Stretching Contracted Knees. Preuss. Vereinsz., Nr.. 22. Canst., vol. iv, p. 32. This consists of a board, on which the limb is placed, the knee being drawn towards it by a broad strap. Ulrich.—Contribution to the Treatment of Spinal Curvatures. Bremen, i860. Canst., vol. iv, p. 27. Spinal curvatures, according to Ulrich, have but two modes of origin, a bony or muscular, the latter being by far the more common. He warmly advocates the Swedish gymnastic treatment, either alone or as an auxiliary to mechanical apparatus. EulenREitG.—Contribution to the JEtiology and Treatment of Scoliosis Habitualis. Virchow's Archiv, Bd. xvii, Heft. 3 u. 4. Canst., vol iv p. 27.