208 REPORT ON SURGERY. Walker.—Case of Tetanus. Med. Times and Gnz., March 17th, p. 263. Acute tetanus following a lacerated wound of tlie foot; death eight days after the commencement of the symptoms. CURLING.—Acute Idiopathic Tetanus, terminating Fatally in sixty-eight hours. Lancet, Aug. 18th, p. 163. A married woman, set. 41, had injured her spine by a fall in her youth, and had ever since had great pain in her back when she caught cold. She had broken her ulna three months before the occurrence of tetanus. At the post-mortem examination a small quantity of fluid in the lateral ventricles, and marks of incipient pneumonia, were found. Macmukdo.— Grazing of the Heel of a Sailor, followed by Tetanus; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 8th, p. 559. Soult.—Ruptured Popliteal Aneurism, with Gangrene of the Leg; Ampu- tation ; Tetanus; Fatal Result. Ib., p. 561. Johnson.—Extensive Wound of the Hand from a Chaff-cutting Machine, followed by Fatal Tetanus, lb. Cutler.—Lacerated Wound of the Back of the Hand, followed by Fatal T'etanus. Ib. Flower.—Severe Injuries to the Right Hand, followed by Sub-acute Tetanus; Recovery. Ib. The second, third, and fourth of these patients died. The third was treated with turpentine and brandy enemata, the other two with opium. The first was treated with chloroform, internally administered as well as inhaled, mercurial friction, opium and purgatives. The fifth recovered under the use of aconite and morphia. Harper, C.; Hinton, J.; Fox, E. L.—Cases of Traumatic Tetanus. Brit. Med. Journ., March 10th, p. 189. Hailey, H.—Case of Traumatic Tetanus, cured by Chloroform. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 27th, p. 842. Fergusson.—Case of Wound of the Wrist; Death from Tetanus occur- ring fourteen days after the Accident. Lancet, Aug. iSth, p. 161, i860. FERGU3S0N.—Scirrhus of the Breast; Removal; Death from Tetanus occurring seven days after the Operation. Ib. The first of these cases was treated with aconite and subcutaneous injections of a solution of woorara, the second case was treated with conium. 4. Foreign Bodies. Anselmier.—On Searching for Portions of Iron and Steel which have buried themselves in the Soft Tissues. Gaz. des Hop., 109, 1859. Schmidt, p. 80, No. 4, vol. 106. Anselmier recommends the use of a magnetic needle, and mentions cases where he detected portions of iron by its aid. Rothmund, A.—Cases of Foreign Bodies. Deutsche Kliuik, Nos. 15, 16, 17-