PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OP POOD, ETC. 63 (salivary) w ithout existing in the blood at large. While, on the other hand, in several virulent diseases, such as glanders for example, not only the slimy secretion that escapes from the mouth and nose, but even the blood itself contains the morbid principle. In the contagious pneumonia of horned cattle, it appears that the lung is the exclusive seat of the poison, for neither the blood nor any of the fluids of the economy (those of the lung excepted) is endowed with the property of propagating the disease. For these and other reasons, Bernard concludes that the history of specific diseases offers nothing which cannot rationally be explained; but the difficulty lies in the discovering of the physiological process in which the virus originates. Nothing is easier than to produce putrid affections in sound animals. Thus, when transfusion is performed under ordinary circumstances, no accidents are produced'; but when the blood is allowed to remain for a short space of time in contact with the atmosphere, and the serum then injected into the vessels of a healthy animal, symptoms of putrid resorption are observed, and the animal dies after exhibiting all the characteristic symptoms of putrid affection. In Lecture xxiii, " On the Analogy between Morbid Causes and Poisons," Bernard remarks that, although, in the majority of cases, the results of post-mortem examinations enable us to ascertain the direct and immediate cause of death, our expectations are often deceived in this respect; and we are unable to account for the cessation of life, in consequence of the organs being apparently healthy. Morbid anatomy, he thinks, cannot be considered as the key to all the phenomena of disease, for it explains nothing beyond the mere mechanical causes of death ; and therefore if we wish to acquire a deeper insight into the secrets of living nature, we must follow other modes of investigation. On experimenting on the abdominal nerves, Bernard has frequently met with cases where the animals died before any symptoms of inflammation made their appearance. And Chossat's researches on the effects of starvation equally afford similar results. For example, a pigeon, which has been kept fasting for a considerable length of time, instantaneously dies when his claws are nipped ; while if not interfered with, the animal's life is usually prolonged for several days. In such a case, no alteration in the tissues is met with, beyond those resulting from inanition. Chossat attributes the deatli of the animal to syncope. In fact, adds Bernard, the heart's motion is momentarily arrested, when a sensitive nerve is painfully excited; it is therefore quite possible that, in animals reduced to a state of great debility, a slight sensation of pain would immediately produce death. As regards poisons, they may be divided into two classes. Some poisons give rise to stable and definite chemical compounds, are retained within the economy, and may be discovered after death. Others are speedily expelled from the body, and leave no visible marks of their passage. In tlie first case, permanent and incurable effects are produced; in the second, a transitory action is alone exerted, and when the patient re- covers, the noxious principle has entirely disappeared. 0. Weber.—Experiments ivith Chloroform. Verb. d. Naturhist. Ver. d. Rheinl. Jahrg. xv, p. 66, and vol. xvi, p. 26. Canst., vol. i, p. in. In animals poisoned with chloroform, normal respiration may fre-