THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. 331 The author states that he has cured ten cases of iritis hy puncturing the iris through the margin of the cornea with a stop-needle. Green way, H.—New Operation for Iridectomy, fyc. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 15th, p. 578. - . The inventor proposes to cut out circular pieces of iri3 with an ingenious instrument that consists of two parts—a, a flat canula, with a round hole in one side, into which the iris is to be sucked hy exhausting the air in the canula; and b, a sliding lancet, which chisels off the included bit of tissue. He had used this instrument in bullocks, but does not appear to have tried it in human eyes. 12. Choroid and Retina. Tux gill.—Choroiditis Pycemica. Klin. Mitth. v. d. med. Abth. des AUg. Krankenh. in Hamburg, 1859, p. 37. Schmidt, p. 81, No. 4, vol. ioo~. A case of suppuration of the eyeball occurring in connexion with purulent infiltration of the muscles of the right arm and inflammation of the left knee-joint. Sichel.—On the Curability of Detached Retina. Clinique Europeenne, No. 29. Canst., vol. iii, p. 111. Sichel reports two cases, to show that the detached retina may again become applied to the choroid, and in some degree regain its function. ■\Yordswokth.—Case of Impaired Vision; Apoplexy of the Retina fol- lowed by Hemiplegia; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 523, May 26th. The patient's urine contained a very large quantity of albumen. 13. Lens. V. Graefe.—On the Connexion betzveen Diabetes Mellitus and Diseases of the Eye. Deutsche Klin., No. 10. Canst., vol. iii, p. 205. This is a report of a communication made by V. Graefe to the Society for Scientific Medicine, Berlin. He considers the prevalent idea, that amblyopia often depends on diabetes, to be groundless, and believes the error has arisen from confusing amblyopia with impaired accommodation. The etiological dependence of cataractous, lenticular opacities on diabetes, is undoubted by Graefe, who found them present in one quarter of diabetic cases. Richardson.—Synthesis of Cataract. Med. Times and Gaz., April 21st, p. 412. This is an abstract of the second paper read by Richardson before the Medical Society, London, describing experiments with glycerine, alcohol, chloride of sodium, acid urate of soda, and iodide of potassium. The injection of the first four substances into the dorsal sac of frogs was followed by opacity of the lens. A negative result was obtained with iodide of potassium. Wilson, H.—Pyramidal Cataract and Conical Cornea. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Dec. 15th, p. 371. The description of a case, with remarks on the etiology of this condition.