341 PEBGNANOY. and another table of fourteen cases of primary abdominal section, i. e. in which no abscess had yet opened. The extra-uterine foetus, dying at the full period of gestation, may (i) remain in the abdomen without occa- sioning inconvenience; (2) may induce suppurative ulceration and spon- taneous evulsion ; or (3) may produce such constitutional irritation as to kill the mother before any process of evulsion has commenced. In twenty-one of 102 cases, the foetus remained quiescent in the abdomen to the end of life. In thirteen cases, the mother died without having been relieved of the foetus, either by natural processes or surgical interference. In sixteen cases, spontaneous ulceration through the abdominal wall and evacuation took place ; of these, fourteen recovered, two died. In thirteen cases, the foetus was removed by surgical operation after fistula had formed ; of these, ten recovered, one died, and one was still under treatment. Of sixteen cases in which primary abdominal section was made, no fistula having formed, seven recovered, and nine died. In twenty-three cases there was spontaneous expulsion of the fcetus by ulceration either into the vagina or rectum (bones sometimes removed by surgeon) ; of these, twenty recovered, and three died. The author concludes, from an analysis of these cases, that the facts in favour of the secondary abdominal section are conclusive; on the other hand, where the foetus has been dead some time, and no evi- dence of suppuration is present, lie is of opinion that the facts ad- duced teach us that the proper course is to wait until spontaneous ulceration has occurred, and there is a probability that adhesions have been set up. Lastly, the facts stated show that it is proper to leave the placenta to be detached spontaneously, unless it be found quite loose. Mattel—On the Different Modes of Termination of Old Extra-uterine Pregnancies, and their Treatment; Examination of 100 recorded Cases, ofiohich one is Original. Gaz. Hop., Sept. 13, 18, i860. In the case observed by Mattei the pregnancy dated from four years ago, and the autopsy confirmed the diagnosis formerly made. A com- munication had been formed between the cyst and the intestine. The contents of the cyst were in a very fetid condition. Di*. Stutter.—Case of Extra-uterine Fcetation, in which the Child was Successfully Removed by Abdominal Section. Med. Times and Gaz., July 21, i860, p. 55. In Stutter's case, an operation for the removal of the fcetus was per- formed ahout five weeks after its supposed death. After the escape of a large quantity of offensive fluid from the opening made, the fcetus, weigh- ing five and a half pounds and in a decomposing state, was removed. The placenta was removed on the fifth day. The patient recovered. Dr. Ramsbotjiaji and Mr. Adams.—Case of Extra-uterine Gestation, in which Gastrotomy was Performed Six Months after the Death of a nearly Full-grown Foetus. Lancet, July 14th, i860, p. 32. In Ranisbotham and Adams' case, the operation of gastrotomy was per- formed six months after the death of the fcetus, which had arrived at, or nearly, the full period of gestation. The cyst containing the fcetus was adherent to the abdominal wall anteriorly and to the right. The fcetus