REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 486 moveable boxes fulfil all hygienic requirements. These boxes are airtight. Every night the full one is removed and conveyed to a place of deposit outside of the town, where it is emptied, washed, and dried, and after three days again used. The author insists on the prohibition of cesspools in new houses, and their abolition in five years in old ones. Hofmann and Frankland.—Report on a Communication from Dr. Letheby, ivith reference to the quantity of Arsenic in Perchloride of Iron. Chem. News, Aug. nth. In answer to a letter of Dr. Letheby, pointing out the "frightful dan- ger" of using Dale's perchloride of iron, from its containing "not less than 238 grains of chloride of arsenic in the gallon," a quantity "suffi- cient to poison about forty persons," the authors show that its use in the proportion they recommend would imply a quantity of arseniate of iron in the deposit from the sewage so deodorized amounting only to one part in 3000, and therefore quite insufficient to act injuriously. Letheby.—On the Empoisonment of the Thames with Perchloride of Iron. Chem. News, Aug. 18th. A rejoinder to the above report. Versmann and Rogers.—On the Presence and Effect of Arsenic in Dale's Patent Magnetic Muriate of Iron. Chem. News, September 8th. ' The authors show that the arsenic introduced into the river in the use of the muriate of iron must necessarily assume an insoluble form, and therefore become a constituent, not of the water, but of the mud. They give further chemical proof of the infinitesimal minuteness of the contamination. Angus Smith.—Disinfection of the Sewage at Carlisle. Lancet, Oct. 13, p. 365. Smith gives an account of the employment of M'Dougall's disinfectant at Carlisle. He states that the whole sewage of Carlisle is rendered in- offensive, and at the same time profitably available for the purposes of agriculture, at a daily cost for the material used of 5«. 3c?. He con- cludes from the results of this experiment that the problem of the utilisa- tion of sewage is solved. L'Hote.—Comparative Analyses of the "Eaux vannes" and of the " Poudrette" from the Voiries of Paris. Ann. de Ch. et de Ph., vol. lx, p. 199. Comparative analyses of the " poudrette" resulting from the slow evaporation of the contents of the voiries at Bondy during twelve years, and the "poudrette" obtained by rapid evaporation of the liquors (eaux vannes) by a process analogous to that employed in the evaporation of saline waters of a feeble density, the substance being deposited by incrustation. This substance yields 65 per cent, of organic matters containing nitrogen, and 074 of ammonia. The poudrette yields only 47 per cent, of the former, and 0 85 of the latter. Demeaux.—On the Preparation of the Disinfecting Charpie. L'Unioi Med., 1859, p. 88. Velpeau.—Report on the Disinfecting Powder of MM. Come and Demeaux. Gaz. de Paris, i860, No. 7.