REPOHT OP PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 240 containing encysted collections of pus, in others again circumscribed extravasations of blood. The supra-renal capsules were in a state of pulpy softening. The patient had not suffered from ague. The white corpuscles of the blood were not in excess. Beraud.— Vcn-iolous Orchitis and Ovaritis. Amor. J. of Med. Sc., April, i860, p. 522. Variolous orchitis, according to Beraud, may be either peripheric, or parenchymatous. Both testes are commonly affected, the left most seriously. Spontaneous resolution usually occurs. Variolous ovaritis has been less frequently observed. G. Budd.—On the Treatment of Hydatid Tumours of the Liver. Med. T. and Gaz., May 19th. G. Budd relates a case in which he withdrew 156 ounces of liquid from an hydatid tumour in the liver by means of a fine exploring trocar adapted to a double acting stomach pump syringe. The opera- tion gave vast relief, was followed by no ill effects, and up to the date of publication the liquid had not again accumulated. Murney.—Cases of Bronchocele successfully treated by Strychnia. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., June 1st, i860. Murney records 3 cases of thyroid enlargement occurring in females, in two of which the gland was greatly reduced in size by the administration of strychnia, and in the third improvement had com- menced. In the second there was also proptosis and palpitation of the heart. Murney believes that most of our cases of bronchocele are the result of impaired innervation, or of a perverted action of the nervous system. Budd, G.—On Jaundice combined with Ascites. Med. T. and Gaz., June 16th. Budd, G., considers at some length the various causes that produce jaundice by obstructing the bile duct, and which may also occasion ascites, and points out the circumstances which make the diagnosis often very doubtful. When jaundice co-exists with ascites the pro- bability is considerable that both are produced by the pressure of an adjacent tumour which is often cancerous. LeubusCHER.—Contributions to the pathology of Diabetes Mellitus. Archiv. f. pathol. Anat. Vol. 18, Part 1 and 2. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Kev., April, i860. Leubuscher's patient was a girl, ast. 19, who was under his observa- tion till her death, a period of more than ten months. The results of his observations are as follows: (1) The temperature of the skm was alwavs below the normal figure, being only 950 F., and even under an. acute affection reaching only 960 F. (2) The amount of urine excreted many times exceeded the quantity of liquid taken. (3) With a mixed diet, containing much starchy matter, and water being taken freely, the quantity of CI. Na. and of urea excreted in 24 hours con-