282 REPORT ON SURGERY. 6. Chest. Mall.—Luxation of the Sternal End of the Collar-bone backwards. Allg. Wien.med. Ztg., 49,1859. Schmidt, No. 5, p. 200, vol. io<5. This was caused by a fall from a tree. The lad's face was cedematous and cyanotic, his neck was swollen, and the vena jug. inf. was very prominent. There was considerable dyspnoea, difficulty of swallowing, and pain in the supra-sternal notch, where a foreign body was felt. A loud whistling was heard in the trachea. The manubrium sterni was pro- minent, and a grooved depression occupied the situation of the left sterno- clavicular joint. The left shoulder stood lower, and more inwards than the right, and the distance from the acromion to the sternal articulation was less on the left side. The luxation was easily reduced by drawing the shoulder outwards, upwards, and backwards, whilst slight pressure was made on the upper part of the sternum. The patient felt immediate relief, and the cyanosis, dyspnoea, &c, soon disappeared. Canton.—Dislocation of the Sternal End of the Clavicle forwards, from Injury. Lancet, Sept. 15th, p. 265. A labourer, set. 46, was knocked down by a cab. He thought he fell on his right shoulder. The sternal end of the right clavicle was promi- nent, and about half an inch lower than on the opposite side. The trapezius of the same side was somewhat relaxed. The sterno-mastoid was very tense, with a deep fossa behind it; there was no rupture of its sternal portion. Right shoulder rather lower than the other. The distance from the centre of the sternum to the acromion about half an inch less than on the left side. The length of the clavicles the same on both sides. The head bent towards the right side. Movements of the arm but little affected. Reduction was effected by drawing the shoulder backwards, raising the arm considerably, and directing the clavicle to its normal position by pressure anteriorly. Turn mi.—Case of Death from Haemorrhage after Fracture of a Rib, without External Mark of Injury. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 2, p. 607. A gunner in the Horse Artillery was hit, whilst fencing, with a light cane on the eighth rib on the right side. There was no outward mark of injury, but he became collapsed, and died seventeen hours afterwards. The eighth rib was fractured, and a small twig of the intercosial artery entering the bone at this point was torn through. The trunks of the intercostal artery and vein were uninjured. The right pleural sac contained about five pints of blood. Tatum.—Fracture of the Ribs, Sternum, and Lower Jaw, with Bleeding and Serous Discharge from the Temporo-maxillary Articulation through the Ear, from a Fall. Lancet, Dec. 1, p. 536. Tatum.—Fracture of the Ribs and all the Lumbar Vertebrae ; Laceration of the Pleura, Theca Vertebralis, and Spleen. Ib., p. 537. Bryant.—Fracture of the Ribs and Emphysema, with Dislocation of the Acromial End of the Clavicle, from a Squeeze between two Railway Buffers; Recovery, lb. • In the first of these cases the serous discharge, which was considerable,