WOUNDS AND INJURIES. 425 gnishes between those in which no such disturbance exists, those in which important functions are deranged, and those in which all function is annihilated; these distinctions being farther qualified in relation to locality, time, and instrumentality. The author sees in the adoption of his views the only means by which the gap which now exists between the physician and the judge may be bridged over, and the discrimination of lesions in relation to the punishment they deserve may be freed from the distortion to which it is subject according as it is regarded in a medical or judicial aspect. Toulmouciie.—On the Lesions of the Cranium, and of the Organ it con- tains, considered in a Medico-legal point of view. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xii, p. 395, and vol. xiii, pp. 143, 399. Impressed with the necessity of studying the lesions to which injuries of the head give rise, in a more methodical and positive manner than has been hitherto done, the author has minutely recorded a large number of observations of the post-mortem results of such injuries, and has added to each observation a commentary, having for its object to point out the inferences derivable from the lesions found, as to the nature of the instru- ment, the intensity and direction of the force employed, the duration of life after the injury, and the immediate cause of death. Injuries of the head are divided into three categories. Of these the first comprises wounds of the integuments, and involves the discrimination of the nature of the implement, the determination of the mode in which the injury has been inflicted, the duration of the consequent incapacity for work, and the inference derivable from the appearances of cicatrices regarding the time which has elapsed since the act. The following is a summary of the ob- servations. Obs. I. Incised wound of the left side of forehead; conse- quent erysipelas of face, and phlegmonous abscess of the same side of neck; death by meningitis. Obs. IX. Wounds of the scalp; question whether produced by a fall or by violence, by a cutting or pointed instru- ment ; consequent erysipelas and phlegmonous inflammation of the scalp, and fatal arachnitis. Obs. in. Wounds of the scalp above the right ear, inflicted by a stab from a knife, the direction of which was inwards and forwards. Obs. iv, v, and VI. Various cases of contusion. Obs. vn. Extensive incised wound of the scalp above the left ear, directed forwards, upwards, and to the right, and accompanied with contusions ; consequent fatal haemorrhage. Obs. Tin. Wound of the left side of the head, by a blow from a blunt instrument, directed forwards and upwards ; incapacity for work for more than twenty days. Obs. ix and x. Cases in which inferences as to the lapse of time since the injury were drawn from the appearances of cicatrices. Obs. xi. Injury of the lower jaw; inferences as to the nature of the injury, and duration of incapacity for work, derived from the cicatrix. The second section comprises injuries of the head attended with frac- ture. Of these twenty-two observations are recorded, which are divided according to the medico-legal significance of the lesions found. The following is a summary of their most prominent points. In Obs. xi, xn, and xiii, the lesions were of such a nature as to indicate that death had occurred instantaneously—contused wound with fracture and very exten-