85 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. tating it frequently in water, or protracting the infusion beyond the period when the fluid becomes clouded. Turbidity shows that the pan- creatic fluid is beginning to act upon the fatty matters of the gland itself. In this state the juice of the pancreas no longer exhibits any digestive action ; and as these, says Corvisart, were the conditions under which Brinton performed his experiments, we can readily understand how he obtained such contradictory results. In order to experiment successfully, the gland must be taken from the animal in full digestion (five hours after a meal), and an infusion made from it as quickly as possible, for the pancreas is one of the organs most liable to putrefaction. One hour's infusion at 1040 Fah. suffices to remove from the gland all its juice, and such an infusion will be found to act upon albumen very readily. Prof. G. Meissner.—Researches on the Digestion of Albuminous Substances. Henle u. Pfeufer's Zeitschr., vol. vii, part 1, p. i, 1859. Canst., vol. i, p. 28. The author studied the changes produced in albuminous substances by the gastric and pancreatic juices. For the former he used a fluid of which 100 c.c. contained .002 to .004 gramme pepsin (commercial), and .08 to .2 per cent, hydrochloric acid. The digestion of albumen, casein, syntonin, gluten, and fibrin, produces, besides peptone, a substance which Meissner names parapeptone. It is obtained when a dilute solution of potash or soda is added to the acid solution of an albumi- nous substance in gastric juice till the acidity is very slight. It forms a flocculent precipitate, readily soluble in the smallest excess of acid or of alkali. Dried, it forms a whitish, pulverizable mass, insoluble in water, readily combining with acids and alkalies, and precipitable from their solu- 1 tions by rectified spirit and ether, but not by absolute alcohol alone. If to a 1 solution of parapeptone in muriatic acid be added a concentrated solution of chloride of sodium or potassium, a flocculent precipitate of muriate of parapeptone, easily soluble in water, is obtained. The author proposes to employ therapeutically solutions of peptone, prepared by digesting the whites of three eggs, or half a pound of flesh, in 1000 c.c. of artificial gastric juice. The artificial gastric juice may be made by adding 2 c.c. hydrochloric acid, and 0.04 gramme pepsin to 1000 c.c. of water. F. Hunefeld.— On the Solubility of Albumen by Artificial Gastric Juice. Greifswald, 1859, 8vo. The author concludes, from a series of comparative experiments with hydrochloric, lactic, and acetic acids, separately added to artificial diges- tive fluid, that the hydrochloric acid acts most thoroughly and speedily, the acetic acid least so. Chr. Hempel.—On Rumination in Man. Jena, 18^9, 8vo. Among the cases recorded by the author are five which he himself ?xamined. (1) A gentleman, aged twenty-four, who had previously au nordinate appetite, and had often bolted his food unmasticated. The :aking of exercise immediately after eating aggravated the affection, whilst •motional excitement controlled it. Abundant meals appeared to en- tourage the rumination, as did warm or vegetable nourishment. Dover's lowder or lupulin lessened it, and appropriate diet entirely suppressed it.