REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 222 cx-piratoiy theories of tho production of emphysema, Waters gives his reasons for adopting-the latter. Those are, that in a person whose chest is exposed during- the act of coughing a distinct bulging* is seen pro- duced above the clavicle; that in M. Groux during a violent expiratory act the lung of one side came forward into the sternal fissure as a distinct elongated tympanitic tumour; and that M. ('uillot has observed in ic infants suffering with long-continued spasmodic cough subpleural emphysema and even escape of air into the mediastinum and neck. He also adopts the opinion that some kind of degeneration of the pulmonary tissue takes place which precedes and predisposes to emphysema. Guitard.— Vomica cured by Iodine inhalations. Journ. de Med. dc Tou- louse. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 109. Guitard records a remarkable case in which a cavity, the result undoubtedly of tuberculous disease was all but cicatrized, and the general health completely restored under the use of iodine given inter- nally and by inhalation. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM, INEEX. Leared.—The causes and treatment of Imperfect Digestion, pp. 224, London, Churchill. Lebert.—Handbook of Practical Medicine. Vol. ii, Tubingen, 1859. Leubuscher.—Handbook of Clinical Medicine. 1, 2, Leipzig, 1859. Niemeyer.—Compendium of Special Pathology and Therapeutics. Vol. i. Part 1. The diseases of the digestive tract, of the liver and spleen, with especial respect to physiology, and pathological ana- tomy. Berlin, 1859. IIartmann.—Compendium of Special Pathology and Therapeutics considered from their clinical aspect. Frankfurt a. m. Cazin.—Case of Diphtheria successfully treated by Garlic and Lemon-juice, internally and externally. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., i860, p. 241. Basslinger, Eden.—On the preparation and medical use of Pepsin. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 38. McCombie.—Case of Cancerous Ulceration of Oesophagus perforating the Aorta. Lancet, Feb. 4th, i860. Brinton.—Clinical remarks; Complications and Varieties of cirrhosis of the Liver. Lancet, Feb. 25th. Bouchut.—Abscess in the Iliac fossa in Children. Brit. Med. J., March 3rd, i860. Boys de Loury.—On the results of Retention of frees in the large Intestines, especially in the Ca-cum. Gaz. JJebdom., v, 28, 185S. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 328. Roux J.—Complete obstruction of the Intestine co-existing with an inguinal hernia. Gaz. des Hupit. 32, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 330. Burr.—Ileus from Intestinal obstruction resulting from old adhesions. Wiirtemb. Corr. Bl., 35, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 333. Bunzel.—Case of Axial Ttvisting and Entwining of the Intestines. Ocsterr.