CHEST. 301 Clak.— Observations on Anomalies of the Thymus Gland. Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk., ii, 3, p. 196, 1859. Schmidt, p. 321, No. 3, vol. 105. This is a report of eight cases of acute and chronic disease of the thymus gland, with comments. CHEST. Pleura, Paracentesis of. Trousseau, A.—Paracentesis of the Chest. Clinique Medicale de l'Hdtel Dieu de Paris. Bnilliere, i860, vol. i, p. 619. Trousseau taps the chest through the sixth or seventh intercostal space, counting from above downwards, nearly four or five centimetres outside the outer border of the pectoralis major muscle. The skin should be punctured with a lancet, and the trocar pushed slowly through the muscles, but rapidly through the pleura, in order to make sure of piercing, and Dot detaching any false membranes that might exist upon the latter. Walter, A. G.—Case of Traumatic Empyema of Sixteen Months' Stand' ing,with Fistulce ; Treated Successfully. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 21, p. 48. A strumous man, set. 32, was stabbed under the left arm, between the eighth and ninth ribs, with a broad-bladed knife. Profuse haemorrhage from the wounded intercostal artery was stopped by a suture. Empyema resulted, and when (he patient came under Walter's care fully two pints of offensive pus were discharged daily from the wound, which had become fistulous. Believing the retention of decomposed blood-clots and the imperfect escape of the matter to be the causes of the protracted suppuration, Walter (December 8, 1857) cut away one inch of the eighth rib, and removed much very offensive matter, with masses of putrid coagulum resembling putrefied lung. For a time this was followed by marked improvement, but the condition of the patient having again become unfavorable (February 11), a freer opening was made by removing two inches of the eighth and ninth ribs, and a pyogenic membrane, covering the entire pleura, was scraped away with a spatula and the finger. On a subsequent occasion the cavity was sponged out. The man ulti- mately recovered. Strauss, Dr. E.—On Emphysema of the Skin after Contusions of the Chest. (Virch.'s Archiv, xvii, 5 u. 6, pp. 479-481.) Schmidt, p. 77, No. 4, vol. 106. A report of two cases, to prove that emphysema of the skin is not always symptomatic of broken ribs in chest contusions. Pericardium, Paracentesis of Trousseau.—Paracentesis of the Pericardium. Clinique Medicale de l'Hdtel Dieu de Paris. Bailliere, i860, p. 700. Trousseau cites several instances of the performance of this operation by German and French surgeons. In a reported case he divided the tissues carefully with the bistoury, which is a far safer method than using a trocar. He recommends the incision to be made immediately at the outer border of the sternum, and in the level of the fifth, sixth, or