CIKCULATOHY SYSTEM. 201 Samuel has experimented on rabbits to determine the effect of nerve- irritation in producing inflammation. By passing an interrupted current through the Casserian ganglion, by means of needles penetrating the cranium, be caused the pupil to contract considerably, or to dilate when t lie current was vciy strong. Some conjunctival vessels at the same time became injected; the sensibility of the lids, cornea, and conjunctiva w as increased; the lids twitched, and lachrymation_ took place. In 24 hours after the irritation, inflammation was established, which in- creased till the 3rd day, and then declined. Ulceration of the cornea occurred, and once a small hypopyon. The Ms was congested, but not inflamed. Samuel concludes that inflammation is a disturbance of nutrition produced either by direct irritation of the tissue, or indirectly by irritation of nerves. Increased exudation and absorption of plasma, and activity of cell formation are its essential characters. Berner.—Physiological Experiments 011 the Motion of the Heart. Erlangen. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 99. Berner states that the apex of the heart does not descend in systole. When the organ is left free to move uncovered by its pericardium, it contracts in systole from all sides about a hard point situated nearly in the middle of the long axis of the ventricle. In this case, the base of the ventricle moves downwards, the apex upwards, the margins in- wards. If there is but little fluid in the pericardium, all parts of the ventricle draw towards the apex, but this remains fixed itself. If there is much pericardial fluid, or the heart in any way is rendered more moveable, the apex ascends. Schaeer.—On Auscultation of the normal Heart Sounds. Giessen. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 99. Schafer found, in observations on 50 persons, that the first sound of the heart might vary in many ways in its quality without this variation indicating any pathological state. In some cases it was not well defined; in others, unusually dull and prolonged; in a few, it resembled a murmur. In two healthy boys it was so like the 2nd sound in quality, intensity, and duration, that it could only be distinguished by aid of the pause. Reduplication (spaltung) of the heart's 2nd sound was observed 29 times; never at the apex, and rarely at the right of the sternum. It was oftencst heard during expiration and at the end of inspiration. The 2nd sound was heard at the apex as strong as the 1st in as many cases as it was more faint, but at the base the 2nd sound was strongest hi 43 cases out of 50. Beau.— On the Therapeutic Value of general JBloodletting in Inflamma- tions. Clinical Lectures delivered at la Charite. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 120. Beau discountenances v. s. because he regards inflammation as especially frequent in weakly persons, because it injures the blood by diminishing its globules, and increasing its fibrine, and because the results of statistics show that it is injurious.