ItEl'OltT OX LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. The conducting tube should be two or three feet in length, and covered for the most part with blotting-pnper, kept constantly wet, and should be adapted to a receiving flask by a cork, which should contain just sufficient water to condense and fix the acid vapours. The further steps consist in subjecting the distilled liquid to Marsh's process, in the application of which Dr. Taylor recommends several modifications. He passes the ar- seniuretted hydrogen at successive periods into test-tubes, of which one contains strong solution of nitrate of silver, the other strong nitric acid with nitrous acid (np. gr., 1-522). In the first arsenious acid and metallic silver are produced, and nitric acid set free, the solution being blackened by the slightest trace of arseniuretted hydrogen. In the second the whole of the arsenic is arrested and converted into arsenic acid, which may be obtained by evaporating the nitric acid on the sand-bath, and tested by the subsequent addition of nitrate of silver. The arsenious acid contained in the first test-tube may be separated by filtration from the black precipitate of metallic silver, and the filtrate precipitated by hydro- chloric acid, and the product again filtered. The liquid is then free from any silver salt, and may be further tested. As regards the application of this process to antimony, Dr. Taylor states that he has not been able "to procure by distillation with hydro- chloric acid any trace of the metal in the distillate, though antimony was readily found by Marsh's process in the residue in the retort. If this fact should be corroborated, the distillation process will furnish a ready method of separating absorbed arsenic from absorbed antimony." But for the separation of antimony, when that metal alone is in question, Reinsch's plan is still considered to be the best. For the discrimination of the antimonial deposit thus obtained, the method already described as having been first suggested by Mr. Watson is adopted by Dr. Taylor, as being definitively the best; and he states, in illustration, that in the Liverpool poison cases it afforded good evidence of antimony in a liver containing not more than i-i6oth of a grain in two ounces of the substance. ScHNEiDEK.—Marsh's Apparatus as a means of proof in Poisoning by Arsenic. Oest. Zeitsch. f. p. Heillc, vol. v, p. 49. Canst., vol. v, p. 89. Schneider arrives at the following results:—The ordinary method of testing zinc, with a view to its use as a means of discovering arsenic, affords no proof of its absolute freedom from arsenic, and therefore, in cases in which only the most minute traces are indicated, it cannot be concluded that these traces are derived from the substances submitted to examination, as it is conceivable that they may arise from zinc which has been pronounced pure. As, however, recognisable arsenic stains cannot be obtained by Marsh's apparatus from less than one milligramme of arsenious acid, a larger quantity than could be attributed to the impurity of the zinc, it may be assumed that in all cases in which such stains are produced there can be no doubt of their source. It further follows that Marsh's process is not adapted for investigations in which quantities of arsenious acid less than a milligramme are to be sought. In these casts the author recommends precipitation by sulphuretted hydrogen as the best method. He finds by experiment that a precipitation of sulphuret of arsenic can be obtained from a solution of o-oio gramme in 600,000