10 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Character, Typical. Bone. Breast. Uterus and l'rostate. Skin. Pigment. Hollow organs. Innocent. . Simple fibrous. Exostosis. Enchoudroma. Myeloid. Adenoccle. Muscular tumour.. Papillary growths Sebaceous „ Pray „ Simple mekuosis. Villous growths. (True.) Semi-malig- nant . . Recurrent fibroid. Osteosarcoma. Recurrent fibroid. Recurrent fibroid. Epithelioma. Recurrent melanosis. Villous growths. Malignant . Carcinoma. Osteoid cancer. Cancer. Cunccr. Cancer. Cancerous melanosis. Villous cancer. Prof. ScHEREit.—On the Presence of Hypoxanthin, Xanthin, and Guanin in the Animal Body, and the Abundance of Leucin in the Pancreas. Liebig's Annal., vol. 112, p. 257. Schmidt, vol. 103, p. 274. Canst., vol. i, p. 220. G. Staedeler.—On Xanthin. Liebig's Annal., vol. 111, p. 28. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 273. Canst., vol. i, p. 220. Dr. P. Lorenz.—On the Chemical Composition of the Brain. Thesis. Wurzburg, 1859. Canst., vol. i, p. 220. In 1858 Scherer called attention to the fact that xanthin may be obtained from the urine, the muscles, the brain, the spleen, the pancreas, the liver, and the thymus gland; and, further, that in certain pathological conditions xanthin may even be abundantly found in the blood and in some of the abdominal glands. At the same time, Scherer stated that guanin was a normal constituent of the pancreas of the ox. In the pre- sent communication the author describes the different methods of obtain- ing these substances in a pure state, and gives the following elementary analysis of hypoxanthin: Carbon ..... 44.096 Hydrogen ..... 3-°77 Nitrogen ..... 41.163 Oxygen ..... 11.664 100.000 When pure hypoxanthin is mixed with a little nitric acid, and the mixture heated to dryness on a platinum spatula, a white, faintly yellowish substance remains, which, on being moistened with a drop of hydrated soda, assumes a lemon yellow, or perhaps even a pale-red colour. This substance does not, however, become purple-red on being heated. On the other hand, should xanthin also be present, which is generally the case, the nitric acid residue is of a light yellow colour, and becomes intensely red on the addition of hydrated soda. The application of heat changes the red to a fine, violet hue. With concentrated nitric acid, hypoxanthin is much more likely to be mistaken for xanthin, in consequence of the residue being yellow, and hydrated soda giving with it a reddish colour; the application of heat, however, solves the difficulty, for xanthin alone yields the purple tint. Scherer obtained hypoxanthin from muscle, but he failed to detect it in the pancreas. With a watery solution of a fragment of calculus composed of xanthm, Staedeler obtained the following reactions:—(1) neutral acetate of lead