23 MUSCULAR SYSTEM. W. KUHNB.—On Direct and Indirect Irritation of Muscles by means of Chemical Reagents. Reicbert's u. Du Bois' Archiv. f. Anat. u. Phys., 1859, p. 213. W. KiiiiNE.—On Muscular Twitchings Independent of the Nerves. Ib., p. 314. W. KiiiiNE.—On " Idiomuscular " Contractions. Ib., p. 418. Canst., pp. 74, 75, and 76. The researches of Kiihne were cbiefly designed to determine the ques- tion of the independence of muscular irritability on nervous influence. The muscle which the author commonly employed was the sartorius of the frog, and it was usually to an upper transverse section that the irritants were applied. It was in general found that none but concentrated acids excited twitchings when brought in contact with the nerve, while dilute solutions, containing but one half or even one tenth per cent., for example, of muriatic acid, affected the muscular mass. Nitric acid acts similarly ; and if one sartorius be placed in water, and a second in nitric acid diluted to less than one tenth per cent., the second muscle will soon be found to be the more susceptible of the electric current. The action of alkalies, such as potash and soda, differs less than that of acids upon nerve and muscle. The cut surface of the sartorius muscle responds to the vapour of ammonia, although this agent has no power upon the nerve. Lime-water acts only on the muscle. A solution of sulphate of copper, containing 4 per cent, of the salt, and solutions of the chloride of sodium or calcium far too weak to act through the nerve, still elicit contractions when directly applied to the muscular substance. Chloride of iron and acetate of lead act upon the latter alone. Pretty strong acetic acid is required to excite the nerve, whilst the vapours merely, escaping from it at an ordinary temperature, are sufficient to affect the muscle. Syrupy lactic acid only excites the nerve, but if diluted so as to penetrate the muscle, the latter in its turn becomes the more sensitive. Creosote acts vigorously upon the nerve, weakly on the muscle. Alcohol has similar, ether and chloroform converse, effects, although it must be admitted that all three are rather feeble excitants. Fatty oils and oil of turpentine soon destroy irritability. When a nerve is dipped in glycerine, tetanic spasms are excited, which continue till vitality ceases. Undiluted glycerine has no effect upon muscular substance, but, when diluted, glycerine becomes strongly irritant thereof. Bile causes contraction in the dead, and excites twitchings in the living muscles. After the nerves are paralysed by the constant current, the muscle is still acted on by muriatic acid of different strengths, precisely as if the nerves were unaffected. The same result is obtained from potash, soda, ammonia, and lime-water. Even the feeble twitchings produced by the simple immersion of a muscle in water are due to the irritability of the muscular substance; for they continue, notwithstanding the paralysis of the nerve by the current. Kuiine regards the contractile substance of muscle as a fluid. It maybe assumed, says our author, that in producing "idiomuscular" contraction, one segment of the active nerve or muscle serves as an exci- tant to the adjoining segments, and the tendency to propagate the muscular contractions becomes less and less in proportion as the excitability of the nerves and muscles diminishes.