BJBPOET ON THK rN8TCTu~TE8 OS MEDICINE. Ifi OSSEOUS SYSTEM, INCLUDING CARTILAGE AND TEETH. Olliek.—Experimental Researches on Osseous Grafts. Journ. de la Phys., January, i860, No. 9, p. 88. Olliek.—On the Artificial Production of Bone. Meeting, Brit. Asso- ciation, Oxford. Lancet, 7th July. Oilier has demonstrated by experiments on animals that—(a) the periosteum has the power of reproducing a bone removed artificially; also that (b) transplanted portions of periosteum will give rise to the production of bone, beneath the skin, among the muscles, or elsewhere, (c) If the transplanted portions of periosteum be in the form of strips and twisted round, the bone is secreted exactly in the same form,— spirally or oth crwise. (rf) If the membrane be removed from a bone, the bone dies, and suppuration ensues, (e) All osseous secretions from the periosteum have the true and normal characters of bone. The author concludes, from the result of his researches, that periosteum is the true secreting membrane of bone. Ollier.— On the Transplanting of Bone taken from Animals some time after Death. Compt. Bend., 16th January, i860, p. 163. 1. Portions of periosteum, or of the bone itself, taken from animals after death, can be successfully engrafted on another animal of the same species. 2. The vitality of these tissues does not become extinct with the ces- sation of respiration and circulation; transplanted into an analogous situation to what they previously occupied, they continue to live and increase to a certain extent, according to the laws of their normal development. 3. After being separated from a living animal, and exposed to the action of the air, they are still capable of being successfully engrafted, provided the atmosphere has been somewhat humid. This persistence of vitality in fragments of periosteum and bone is analogous to what has frequently been observed in other tissues. The end of the nose and portions of fingers have, for example, been successfully replaced some minutes, or even hours, after their accidental separation. I 4. Portions of periosteum taken from rabbits that have died from haemorrhage, or from section of the medulla oblongata, can be engrafted with success ten, thirty, sixty, and even ninety, minutes after the cessation of the heart's action. 5. Portions of bone may likewise be transplanted with a positive result after the animal has been dead ten, thirty, or sixty minutes. 6. The bones thus transplanted not only live, but even increase in size, in their new locality. 7. Bones freed from their periosteum cannot be engrafted. They act the part of foreign bodies. Boukguet.— On the ^Regeneration of Bone. Compt. Rend., August, i860, p. 208; Archiv. G<m. de Med., Sept., p. 378. The author has arrived at the following conclusions : I. The regeneration of long bones, after the section or the extirpation of a considerable portion of the diaphysis, is an incontestable fact.