116 HJ3P0ET ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND 1'UBLIC HYGIENE. with beneficial results, their general healthiness and longevity being re- markable. Poisoning by Arsenic. Pharmac., p. 618. A servant girl, near Leicester, was charged with having, on the 27th of April, administered to her master arsenic, with which she had been intrusted for the purpose of killing rats. Death took place a week after the presumed administration of the poison, and was preceded by the usual symptoms. Arsenious acid was detected in the liver, stomach, intes- tines, and vomited matters. Poisoning by Bath Buns. Pharmac, p. 389. Six boys suffered from the symptoms of arsenical poisoning, after par- taking of buns at a confectioner's. It was found that the buus were coloured yellow with orpiment, which had been supplied to the confec- tioner in mistake for chrome yellow. The latter substance had beeu employed by him habitually as a substitute for eggs. Kebeb and Hoogeweg.—Two Cases 0/Poisoning by Arsenic. Casper, vol. xv, part 2. Maschka.—Medico-legal Contributions. Casper, vol.xv, part 1. Poison- ing by Arsenic in a Child affected by Pneumonia. Fasoli.—On the Use of Antidotes in general, and especially of Oxide of Iron, in cases of Poisoning by Arsenic Acids. Compt. rend., vol. li, P- *72- LoitiNSEit.—Chronic Poisoning by Arsenic and Copper, consequent on pro- longed habitation in rooms painted ivith Scheele's Green. Wiener Med. Wochensch, 1859, Nos. 43, 44. After a resume of the facts observed by former writers, the author re- lates several cases in which persons inhabiting rooms painted green, exhibited remarkable symptoms, which were proved by the analysis of the paint, and of the urine of the patients, as well as by the fact that recovery succeeded removal, to be dependent on mineral poisoning. The following is among the most interesting:—A woman, aged fifty-four, was affected at various periods with lancinating, erratic pains referred to the shoulder- joint and nucha, and accompanied with fever. These phenomena in- creased from year to year until the winter of 1857-58, when the patient became languid, and lost flesh and appetite. She left town, and got well. Towards the end of summer, she returned to her house at Vienna, and rode on horseback daily. In November, she was seized with violent fever, lancinating pains in the head and shoulders and subsequently profuse perspirations, followed by disappearance of the fever. The lancinating pains diminished, but she experienced extremely painful sensations of irritation and distraction in the head. These returned regularly every other night, and lasted till morning, the attack always terminating in abundant sweating. The lancinating pains continued in the shoulders, arms, and epigastrium, after the subsidence of the attack. There was complete anorexia, with a clean tongue. Sulphate of quinine, in 8-grain doses, produced no effect.