388 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Dr. Wilks.—On some Diseases of Children. Guy'8 llosp. Rep i860 P- 97- rins paper contains an account of eighty-two cases, chiefly those of children; forty of these are cases of disease of the brain, five were cases of croup, two of laryngitis, four cases of tracheotomy, two of oedema of the glottis ; also some cases of hooping-cough, pneumonia, &c, and nine cases illustrative of the cause of death from burns and scalds. Observations on the pathology of the several diseases illustrated by the cases are appended. Dr. Gairdner.—On Infantile Mortality, as illustrated by Private Prac- tice, with Suggestions for future Inquiries. Edinb. Med. Journ., Nov., i860, p. 437. Gardner's inquiries have the purpose of eliciting information as to the actual mortality of children during the first year of life in general prac- tice, and with this view he has collected reliable information from practitioners residing in several country and town districts in Scotland. The general result was, that in the country 8.08 per cent., and in the town 7.14 per cent, died under one year old; from which the author infers that the towns owe their very high rate of infantile mortality, as compared with the country districts, to the influence of the lowest and most neglected class. Dr. W. J. Marshall.—Remarks upon the Birth-rate as affecting the Proportion of Deaths tinder Two Tears of Age. Edinb. Med. Journ., Oct. and Nov., i860, pp. 332, 421. Bentzen.—On the Mortality of the First Year of Life. Ugesk. for Laegev, xxviii, 441. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 53. Minchin.—Observa tions on the Mortality of Infants born in Workhouses. Dubl. Quart., Feb., i860, p. 70. Blumenthal.—On the Mortality of Infants in the Moscow Foundling Hospital. Med. Zeit. Russ., 1859, No. 30, 31. Med. Times and Gaz., July 21st, i860, p. 63. Blumenthal states that the mortality is favoured:—1. By the miserable condition of the infants, produced by the neglect to which they have been subjected previous to admission, and the long distances from which they are brought. Thus, of 11,762 admitted in 1856, 1921 were doomed to speedy death, independently of hospital causes. 2. By the occasional deficiency of nurses. Artificial feeding, performed with the greatest care, does not prevent the infants from sinking under diarrhoea, atrophy, Sec. 3. By the change of nurses, which it appears is unavoidable. 4. By the generation of disease in consequence of the conglomeration of individuals, and especially of individuals of foreign and varied origin. 5. By over- crowding, the number of admissions having very largely increased of late years. 6. Epidemics appear to exercise very little influence on infants at the breast j but the author believes that epidemic visitations have an in- direct influence by the injurious effect they exert on the mother during pregnancy. The mortality has varied during the last thirty years from 15.42 to 32.09 per cent. The mortality has never been in an exact proportion to