193 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. loss acuteness and severity. Two instances are given, the latter of which shows that the obstruction to the circulation may be such as to induce general oedema. Concretion may take place with very slight or obscure signs of local inflammation. Of these, two cases are given. When the concretion is on the left side there is suffocative dyspnoea, with expectoration of mucus, sometimes blood-tinged; the surface of the body is of a leaden colour, and cold. There are powerful con- vulsions, and dissolution is preceded by coma. The action of the heart is violent, irregular, and tumultuous. The lungs are never emphy- sematous, but always much congested. If their is coincident fibrinous deposition on both sides the signs are generally those of the right. Should, however, both ventricular or arterial valves become obstructed, the corresponding sound may be entirely absent. In Section III, several illustrative cases arc related of fibrinous concretion occurring in the pregnant and puerperal condition, and in other states, such as after profuse diarrhoea, after a severe shock, in low fever, in some forms of poisoning, and in Bright's disease. In certain cases, concre- tion produced in the heart does not prove at once fatal, but gives rise occasionally to] symptoms of most distressing character, but which vary greatly in different cases. In cases of croup, Dr. Richardson warns that dyspnoea and death may ensue from concretion on the right side of the heart, as well as from obstruction of the air passages. In the former case of course tracheotomy is of no avail. The same he thinks is true of diphtheria. In hyperinosis, the remedies which seem likely to be most effectual to prevent deposition of fibrine are antimony, salines, and narcotics, especially chloroform. If there be reason to suspect that deposition is actually taking- place all depletion must be abandoned, and liquid ammonia given in frequently repeated doses until it is manifestly exhaled in the patient's breath. There seems no reasonable hope of procuring solution of existing deposit by the administration of alkalies, or by the injection of alkaline solution into the veins. Possibly in extreme cases a concretion might be drawn up out of the right auricle by a hooked needle passed through the coats of the external jugular vein. Case of fatal Rheumatic Pericarditis occurring in a child under at. 2 years during an attach of Varicella. Lancet, Jan. 28th. Case of Ulceration into the Trachea and innominate artery proving fatal ly hemorrhage. The ulceration had taken place in a mass of scirrhous disease. Lancet, Jan. 28th. Case of Rupture of the Heart. Lancet, Jan. 28th. Markiiam.—On the Treatment and Proqnosis of Pericarditis. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 4th. Markham discusses the question of paracentesis pericardii, and thinks the operation may be recommended in cases of veiy considerable accumulation of fluid inducing apncea by pressure, or causing great cerebral disturbance. GAinnxER.—On Pericarditis. Edin. Med. J., Feb., i860. Gairdner sums up his paper with the following conclusions: (1) That general and severe pericarditis commonly ends in adhesion. (2) That local 13