483 DISINFECTION. comparison of the two opposite methods, pronounces in favour of that by aspiration ; the main disadvantages of the pulsion system being that the necessary machinery requires constant supervision and attention that a system of heating specially adapted to the ventilation is required, while its principal merit consists in the facility with which the supply of air can be varied and controlled according to the requirement. Forbes.—On Ventilation and Heating. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 728, Mow.—On the Employment of the Heat developed by Lighting Appa- ratus for Ventilation. Compt. Rend., vol. li, p. 109. Walters.—On Experiments tried in England on the Employment of the Heat developed by Lighting Apparatus for Ventilation. Compt. Bend., vol. li, p. 302. Haller.—Ventilation and Wanning of Nurseries and Sick-rooms—on the Principles of Prof . Meissner. Second edition, Vienna, 8vo, pp. 30. Adshead— On Hospitals and Convalescents. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 726, i860. V. Allt VITIATED BY I7ECAL EMANATIONS; DISINFECTION. McWilliam.—Report on the Health of the Waterguard and Waterside Officers of H. M.'s Customs during 18$9. After referring to the unusual prevalence of diarrhoea throughout the metropolis during the hot season of 1859, the author adduces facts and details showing that, although the number of cases that occurred among the officers of the customs was in excess of the previous year, it was not above the average of the four preceding years ; and that, although cholera was imported into the Thames from the continent by at least three vessels in the course of the summer, the disease in no case spread. He therefore infers that " the river is neither capable of generating cholera, nor of forming a soil fit for the germination of the seeds of that disorder when introduced into it." In none of these instances mentioned was quarantine resorted to, or intercourse with the shore or other ships prevented. The author shows that stench from the river first became observable after a heavy fall of rain, "which washed an immense quantity of sewage into the river at the time most favorable for its detention there, viz., when the tide had flowed about a third ;" that from that time it increased as the temperature rose. From the high temperature which the atmosphere and the river attained during July and August, and the resulting rapid evapo- ration, as well as from the defective rainfall during the latter months of 1858, the quantity of fresh water diminished extremely ; and, as a conse- quence, the tidal wave advanced much beyond its usual limit in the river, so that the river was as salt at London Bridge as it usually is at Greenwich. As the proportion of tidal water to fresh water increased or diminished, the stench exhibited corresponding variations, it being found that it was diminished by whatever causes tended to increase the fresh water or give force to the ebb flow. With the fall of the temperature which took place towards the end of August, the evil began steadily to abate. Barnes.—Report of the Vestry of the Parish of St. Leonard's, Shoreditch. " The Thames Theory of Disease."