IJEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL KEDIOIKE. 961 UEID, J. S.—" Respiratory Distress" found associated with another orr/anic lesion of the Heart besides fatty Defeneration. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., May ist, i860. In lleid's case of respiratory distress the heart was considerably dilated and hypcrtrophied, the aortic valves insufficient, the coronary arteries affected with calcareous and atheromatous deposit; but the muscular tissue was quite healthy. There was copious effusion into both pleurae ; the liver was healthy ; the left kidney small, but healthy; the right, large and contained fatty deposit. TnuDicnusr.—On Intravasation, JSmbolia, and Ci/tostasis as causes of Cerebral and other Paralysis. Brit. Med. J., May 5th, i860. Thudichum, after a brief notice of Virchow's views, defines the term intravasation as including " the entrance into the current of blood of matters formed without the blood-vessels, or in the substance of their walls, such as air or the contents of abscesses adjoining the vessel, the gritty matter of true atheroma, the calcareous plates and the detritus of the tissue of degenerated arteries, or the pus from the circumscribed abscess occupying the wall, but leaving unaffected the lumen of larger blood-vessels, such as a vein in true phlebitis." By cylostasis he designates the temporary or permanent arrest in capillaries or small arteries of blood corpuscles, white and red, due to a peculiar glutinous condition of the blood, by which these bodies are enabled to adhere to each other with such tenacity as to form an effective bar to the arterial current." Six cases are related in illustration of the tlnee conditions. Gibb.—On the Atheromatous Expression. Lancet, May 12th, i860. Gibb thus describes the atheromatous expression :—" There will be noticed a peculiar greasy appearance of the face, especially about the prominent part of the cheeks and end of the nose." The lips are full, the aire of the nostrils smooth and rounded. The chin is often double. The skin of the face may be reddish or pinkish; the injected vessels sometimes forming irregular streaks or stella?. The eyes are very bright, occasionally watery, with a fatty lustre, and sometimes pro- minent. A well-marked arcus senilis may be present. The general complexion is heightened, and there is an aspect of ease and content. In the calcareo-atheromatous expression the general features of the face are the same, but there is a whiteness or pallor. A bluish white annulus surrounds the cornea. Beckmann.—Case of Melancemia, Virch. Arch., xvi, 1859 Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 296. Bcckmann's patient had suffered for the best part of a year with ague, and died with the symptoms of a cerebral complication. There were some patches of pneumonia, a cysticercus in the heart, and several in the brain; the dura mater was of a golden yellow colour. The liver was greatly enlarged, the spleen not materially. The blood of the splenic vein and that of the heart had an acid reaction and contained a good many pigment-holding cells. The splenic cells were