REPORT ON LKOAL MEDICINE AX J) PUBLIC HYGIENE. IIS of tetanic convulsion, diarrhoea, and collapse. The contents of the stomach were found to contain "distinct evidences of arsenic," and "minute traces of copper." Another child was affected at the same time in a similar manner. Both had been playing in a room hung with green flock-paper, which was found to contain nearly one third of its weight of Scheele's green. Chevalier.—Researches on the Dangers arising from Schweinfurt Green. 'm Ann. d'Hygiene, vol. xii, p. 49. The author describes the infinitely various purposes for which Schwein- furt green is employed, and the consequent dangers. Persons employed in the manufacture of arsenical paper-hangings, and of artificial flowers, appear to be more liable than any other class of the community to this kind of poisoning ; but examples are given of the most various kinds. Since Prof. Gmelin, of Heidelberg, first drew attention to the dangers of living in rooms papered with arsenical hangings (which he attributed to the disengagement of gas containing arsenic), a very large number of observations have been collected in France, Sweden, and Germany, of which M. Chevalier gives a good summary, his conclusion being, that the poison is introduced entirely mechanically by the inhalation of arsenical dust. The paper contains instances of poisoning from the following sources :—From articles of dress—green cotton prints, which contain arse- niate of copper or arseniateof chrome ; bracelets, head-dresses, linings of caps, &c, articles of food, cakes, and sweetmeats covered with arsenical green, or packed in arsenical paper; hams and potted meats, packed in green paper; French plums, figs, and other fruits, similarly packed ; miscellaneous articles, such as playthings, wafers, postage stamps, &c. &c. Biggs.—On a singular Case of Poisoning by Arsenical Paper. Lancet, Jan. 7. The case was characterised at first by the existence of numerous superficial and very painful ulcers along the inner surface of each lip; subsequently, ptyalism. These symptoms, after resisting all other treat- ment for some time, disappeared on discontinuing the use of a paper lamp- shade, which was found to owe its bright colour to Scheele's green. Oppeniieimer.— Chronic Arsenic Poisoning by Green Wall-papers. Verh. d. Nat.-med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, vol. i, p. 220. Ziurek. — On Green Colours in Articles of Dress. Froriep's Not., vol. iii, No. 10. . Green Arsenic Colours, and their Employment in making Arti- ficial Flowers. Pr. Ver. Ztg. N. F., vol. ii, p. 48. Sonnenkalb. — On Schweinfurt Green in Clothing Materials. Dent. Ztsch., vol. xv, p. 94. . . Muller.—On the Unwholesome Influence of Colouring Matter containing Arsenic. Wien. Wchnschr., Nos. 18—21. Buciiner.—Report on Muller and Fabian's Treatise on the Hurtful Effect of Wall-papers containing Arsenic. Bayer. Arztl. Intell. Blatt., No. 46, 1859. , Fabian.—Poisoning by Paper coloured with Schweinfurt Green. Ann. dcr Chem. u. Pharm., vol. cxv, p. 102.