REPORT ON SURGERY. 291. bone, followed on the twenty-eighth day after the injury by rigors and brain symptoms. Gaffney.—Case of Compound Comminuted Fracture of the Skull, with Loss of Bruin-substance, treated successfully. Med. Times and Gnz., Aug. i8tb, p. 156. A boy, ret. 12, was knocked down, March 9th, by a plough, the share of which struck his head, making a scalp wound four inches long by two inches broad, and carrying away a portion of bone one and a half inch long by one inch broad. The wound was parallel to the coronal suture, into which it ran. The edges of the bone were beveled, and the superior longitudinal sinus was exposed. Several loose splinters, some imbedded in the brain-substance, were removed, and the wound was covered with a piece of wet lint. When seen by Gaffney, two hours after the accident, the boy had walked half a mile, was standing up, and answered any questions that were put to him. Bladders of ice were applied to the occiput, and a rigidly antiphlogistic treatment was observed. About the middle of April several sequestra were exfoliated, after which the wound healed quickly, with a firm cicatrix. Le Gros Clark.—Fatal Case of Compound Comminuted Fracture of the Skull, with Laceration of the Brain. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 10th, p. 448. - PlTHA.—Extraordinary Case of Traumatic Inflammation of the Cranial Sinuses. Zeitschr. fur pract. Heilkunde, No. 1. Canst., p. 149, vol. iv. A case of sabre wounds of the skull, fatal in consequence of phlebitis and pyaemia. Otto Weber.—Surgical Experiences and Investigations. (Fractures of the Skull, and Trepanning, p. 147—161.) Canst., p. 149, vol. iv. Bryant.— Caries of the Skull; Epilepsy; Relieved by Trephining; Subsequent, Death. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 18th, p. 158. Bryant trephined the rough and inflammatory parietal bone of a cachectic man, ret. 38, who had, during ten months, suffered extreme pain in this part, and had recently had convulsions, chiefly affecting the right side of the body and left side of the face, with loss of use of the right leg and arm. After the operation the pain and fits ceased, and the para- lysis disappeared. Subsequently the fits recurred, and the patient died hemiplegic, with some symptoms of pyaemia. Bryant remarks that consciousness was never lost in these fits, whilst in genuine epilepsy the reverse takes place. 2. JAWS. (a) Tumours of Upper Jaw. Lawrence, W.— Case of Cystic Enlargement of the Antrum. Med. Times and Gaz., March 10, p. 235. t Nearly the whole front of the right upper jaw was occupied by a soft, elastic swelling, that readied from near the lower margin of the orbit to the alveolar process. A small quantity of white tenacious fluid was evacuated through an exploratory puncture beneath the cheek, in which situation a free opening was made with a scalpel a few days subsequently. After this, the swelling having become firmer, Lawrence turned back the