MUSCULAR SYSTEM. considerable differences in breadth, being from a mere thread to the one eighth of an inch broad. Its function has not been ascertained. Cir. Aeby.—The Muscles of the Human and Mammalian Forearm and Hand. Siebold's u. Kb'lliker's Zeitschr. f. Wissensch. Zool., vol. x, p. 34. Canst., vol. i, p. 79. Proceeding upon the assumption that the functional utility of a muscle is proportional to its weight, the author found in the course of his inquiries that the muscles which move the forearm always preponderate considerably over those destined for the hand. In the mole, which uses its forearm much more than its hand, 76 per cent, of the whole muscles is devoted to the movementof the forearm. In the guinea-pig, the per-centage is 75 ; in the cat, only 61. The squirrel, the monkey, and even man, show a still smaller proportion ; whilst in the bat it is but 38, the lowest of all. It is generally found that the flexors of the forearm increase in weight, the less the limb has to do with the support of the body ; they do not, in any quadruped, equal the weight of the extensors; in man, on the other hand, they actually exceed them. The greater functional development of the hand leads to a corresponding increase in the weight of the muscles of the fingers, as compared with those attached to the wrist. In the mole, and still more in the pig, the extensors strikingly preponderate over the flexors of the wrist. With regard to the muscles of the fingers, the reverse is the case, in all animals except the mole. In this creature, the extensors of the hand are twice as active as in other animals, and their weight is more than double that of the flexors. In very young children, the muscles moving the forearm are considerably lighter than those moving the hand ; this al- most entirely arises from the deficient development of the flexors. The flexors of the wrist are likewise but slightly developed. G. H. Meyer— The Human Hand. Akad. Vortrag, Zurich, 1859, 8vo> Jobert de Lamballe.—On Involuntary Rhythmical Muscular Contraction and Voluntary Muscular Action. Rhythmical Involuntary Con- traction of the Right Peroneus Brevis. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii. Gaz. Hebd., 1859, No. 17, April, p. 266. Canst., vol. i, p. 76. A girl, aged 14, who had been subject for six years to twitchings of the peroneus brevis, was able to produce thereby similar sounds to those of vvhich spirit-rappers avail themselves. The sound could be produced at all times and in all attitudes. Velpeau availed himself of the occasion to remark, that other tendons, those, for example, of the tibialis posticus, flexor pollicis pedis longus, and the long head of the biceps brachii, may produce similar phenomena, after relaxation or tearing of the adjoining fibrous tissues. Cloquet also stated, that he knew a girl who could cause a pretty loud crack by torsion of the lumbar portion of the spinal column. C. Baierlacher.—Peculiar Muscidar Movements in the Human Subject Ilenle u. Pf.'s. Zeitsch., vol. viii, p. 263, i860. For some years past, Baierlacher has noticed that, on percussin"- very emaciated individuals over the latissimus dorsi, a peculiar muscular contraction follows each blow. On a smart tap being given to the muscle, a hollow is observed, on each side of which rises up a wave