1^2 KKl'OKT UN JJSOAL MEDICINE AND PUfiiaC HYGIENE. the crystals of htematoidine observed iu blood left to itself. The slain 18 to be introduced into a test-tube, and boiled with glacial acetic acid • a lew drops of the liquid are to be evaporated on a glass at about 1200 JJRlrr., and examined under the microscope. 'J'be composition of the crystals, as determined by M. Merck, is 85 per ceut. of organic matter and Ij per cent, of sesquioxide of iron. IIklleu and Kletzinsky.—Opinion and Remit on a Chemico-legal Anabj- sis of bloodstains on a Hammer. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v 12 i\ Canst., vol. vii, p. 13. ' ' 9* In this case a hammer was submitted to examination by maceration with syrup, and subsequent treatment of the solution with nitric acid and potash. By the former test albumen was discovered, and on adding phosphate of magnesia, as described above, the presence of hsematine was also indicated. Iron was detected in the saccharine solution by sulphide of ammonium, ferrocyanide, and sulphoeyanide of potassium. Finally, the addition of glacial acetic acid under the microscope yielded charac- teristic crystals of hoematine. Meyeii.—Report on the result 0/the Microscopical and Chemical Exami- nation of a portion of Clothing ivith reference to Blood-staint. Casper, vol. xvi, part 1. Fleischer.—Question of Blood or Soot. Casper, vol. xvi, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 13. Black stains found in the mucous membrane of the stomach of a smelter, and supposed to consist of blood, were found to be soot. ItiTTER.— Contribution to the History of the Medical Detection of Blood- stains. Ilenke, vol. lxxx, p. 31. Mequel.—On the Detection of Bloodstains. Dent. Klin., No. 19. SUDDEN AND VIOLENT DEATHS ; MEDICO-LEGAL INVESTIGATION OF THE CAUSE AND MODE OF DEATH. Tardieu.— On Strangulation. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xi, p. 107. Tardieu gives, first, an historical sketch of the modes of strangulation, which he distinguishes into two forms, according as a ligature or the hand has been employed, and dwells upon the great variety which presents itself in the signs of strangling, which are dependent upon corresponding varieties in the duration of the constriction, the strength of the strangler, and the prolongation of the death struggle ; the ordinary external indica- tions of this kind of death are then described, as they exhibit themselves in the physiognomy and general aspect, the consequences produced by the resistance of the victim, and the mark of the constricting body. The injuries of internal organs consist in extravasations in the cellular tissue of the muscular layers of the region of the hyoid bone, aud anterior surface of the larynx and trachea; in rare instances, fracture ol the cartilages of the larynx, and luxation and fracture of the hyoid bone; various degrees of congestion of the mucous membrane of the air-passages, which contain reddish froth, with minute bubbles; general infiltration and uniform ro?e colour of the lungs, with almost constant rupture of the