RErORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 10-1 exudation from mild pericardii in, and from the Blight® forms of disease of the pericardium, may end in (lie production of local lymph-patches, or in local adhesions of greater or less extent, (j) That pericarditis, ending- in considerable adhesion, occurs at one period or other of life, in from 2 to 3 per cent, of the patients that die in the Edinburgh Hospital. (4) That less considerable adhesions (not clinically important) occur in about 5 per cent, more (making altogether adhesions present in about 8 pet cent, of the hospital population that die from all causes). (5) That lymph-patches, of mere threads of adhesion at the extreme base occur in not less than a third of all the fatal cases in the Edin- burgh Hospital. (6) That acute pericarditis, in actual progress, occurs in about 6 per cent, of the fatal cases ; but that in very many of these cases it is Blight, and in almost all of them subordinate to other grave constitutional or local diseases; so that primary and uncomplicated fatal pericarditis is a disease of exceeding small mortality. (7) That the healing or repair of pericarditis by adhesion, or lymph-patches, must be regarded as a greatly more frequent event than its fatal issue; and that the formation of lymph-patches, as the result of slight and local irritation, is one of the commonest of morbid affections. Sieveking.—Diagnostic value of Murmur in, the Pulmonary Artery. Lancet, Feb. nth, i860. Sieveking dwells on the importance of murmurs produced in the pulmonary artery in relation to the early stage of phthisis. He adds a caution as to the necessity for distinguishing such murmurs from those produced in the subclavian of the left side. He relates at length a case of cancerous deposit in the bronchial glands of the left lung, with previous tubercular disease producing cavities and induration. In this case there was a persistent pulmonary murmur, which no doubt was produced by pressure on the artery from the cancerous mass behind and indurated lung in front. He refers to two other cases of tuberculosis pulrnonuni iu which the same murmur existed. Milroy.—Case of Pyaemia with Typhus Fever. Edin. Med. J., March, i860. Milroy records a case of low typhus fever with pneumonic complica- tion, followed by swelling of the joints. At the post-mortem examination the right lung was found consolidated, and partly broken up and infiltrated with pus; the left lower lobe was hepatized. Within and around most of the articulations there were notable purulent deposits. The veins were healthy. Peacock.—On Contraction and Obliteration of the Aorta. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., April, i860. Peacock records from various authors a series of 40 cases, on which he makes the following remarks (abstracted). The especial seat of the contraction is at or near the point of junction of the duct.-arterios. and the aorta. In 10 instances the oanaJ of the vessel was entirely obliterated, while in 30 the obstruction was incomplete. The con- striction was owing to contraction and thickening of the internal tunics, or to formation of a more or less complete septum. Above the stricture