1£8 SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. not belong to the non-nitrogenous nniylnceous group, but is, on the con- trary, a nitrogenous nlbuminoid substance. A. Sanson'.—On the Existence of G/ycogene in the Organs of the Herbivora, and on the Influence of Alimentation on the Production of this Substance. Journ. de la Phys., vol. ii, 1859, p. 104. Canst., i, p. 66. Sanson has collected the results arrived at by others regarding the occurrence of dextrin in the blood and tissues of the herbivora (see last Year Book, p. 86). According to liis observations, dextrin is constant only in the muscles of sound horses, although it occasionally occurs in the"muscles of other herbivora. Sanson believes its absence to be clue to Ihe manner in which these animals are slaughtered—that is, by being bled to death—the blood alone containing the glucogenic matter. In animals otherwise destroyed the dextrin is readily discovered. He still maintains that it is illogical to regard the liver as the site of the formation of the glucogenic substance, and believes that the dextrin found in that organ is derived from the food. Dr. Fkankland.—On the Composition of Air from Mont Blanc. Chem. Quart. Journ., April, p. 22. As far as the quantities of nitrogen and oxygen are concerned, Frankland ascertained that they fell within the limits of variation noticed by former experimenters ; and although the comparatively high per-centage of car- bonic acid which he found in the air from the Grands Mulets confirms the observations of Messrs. Schlagintweit as to the presence of a larger amount of this gas at great elevations, yet the diminution of the quan- tity to about the normal amount, which takes place on the summit, shows either that this gas attains a maximum at a height of about 11,000 feet, and again diminishes above this altitude, or, as is much more pro- bable, the per-centage of carbonic acid is generally, but not invariably, greater in the higher regions of the atmosphere. These results also exhibit a correlation between atmospheric oxygen and carbonic acid; for when the one increases, the other diminishes—a fact which will be better ^een by the following table : Per-centage of Car- bonic Acid. Mean pev-ccntage of Oxygen in nir free from Carbonic Acid. 0.111 0 cd I 0.063 20.802 20.963 20.894 This result, if it be confirmed, Frankland thinks, cannot be regarded as unexpected, when we consider the effect of vegetation, combustion, and respiration on the constituents of the atmosphere; but both this and the comparative amount of carbonic acid at great altitudes are problems, the solution of which must be left to future and more extended inquiries.