495 EPIDEMIC AND ENDEMIC DISEASES. diphtheria occurred where there were many children the disease affected several. "An exposed locality is as liable to diphtheria, and perhaps more liable, than sheltered spots." "In only two instances could the malady be attributed to improper drainage or ventilation," and in those cases in which the malady came on in the course of other affections Dr. Gull "could discover no local conditions which determined it." Greenhow.—On the Prevalence and Causes of Diarrhoea at Coventry, Birmingham, Wolverhampton, Dudley, Merthyr Tydfil, Nottingham, Leeds and Manchester, with Chorlton and Salford. Ibid., p. 65. The very extended inquiry, of which this paper contains the results, was undertaken in pursuance of the provisions of the Public Health Act, 1859. It had for its object the investigation of the causes of the extra- ordinary prevalence of fatal diarrhoeal diseases in the localities named, as well as of the general increase of diarrhoea during the last twenty years. The results obtained were as follows:—1. The influence of epidemic epochs has been most marked, and the years in which diarrhoea has occurred in an epidemic form have been nearly the same, in all the districts, but the intensity has varied in the several places. 2. The larger number of deaths have occurred in the months of August, September, and October. 3. A very large proportion (four fifths in most of the districts) have been those of children below the age of five years. This fact is attributed (but not exclusively) to " the mismanagement of infants, arising from the employment of the mothers in factory labour." 4. " The excess of mortality has been in all places coincident with one or other of two definite local circumstances—a. The tainting of the atmosphere with the products of organic decomposition, especially of human excrement. b. The habitual drinking of impure water. The former of these causes is the most prevalent. Report on the Epidemic Yelloio Fever at Lisbon, in 1857. Published by the Extraordinary Council of Public Health. Folio, pp. 251. Review in Brit, and For. Rev., October, 1860. The epidemic appeared in Lisbon in August, and culminated on the 20th of October, after which it gradually, but not uninterruptedly, declined. " It travelled by slow and successive steps from one street to another, and even from house to house, according to their proximity." It was most destructive in the low, central, and crowded parts of the city, while the "west end" was almost exempt. Graxelli.—Record of Medico-political Facts and Principles on Cholera Morbus. Padua, 8vo, 1859. MlLROY. Report of the Proceedings of the Committee on Quarantine. Trans. Ass. Soc. Sc., 1860, p. 697. Ritter.—On the Ways and Means of Protection against Cholera, according to the most recent observations. N. dent. Zeitsch. vol. xiii. part 2. Hillter.—Fourth Annual Report on the Sanitary Condition of St. Pancras, for 1859. This report contains important returns, showing the degree to which the practice of vaccination was neglected in the metropolis previously to the