55 PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF FOOD, MEDICINE, ANT) POISON. Dr. 0. A. Cameron.—On the Philosophy of Food. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Jan. and succeeding numbers. Mr. Hunt.—Action of Medicines. Brit. Med. Journ., June 2d, p. 422. W. Busch.—On the Physiological Action of Chloroform. Verb. d. naturb. Ver. d. Rheinl. Jahrg., xv, p. jji. Dr. Cuarles Kidd. — On the Nature of Death from the Administration of Ancesthetics, especially Chloroform and Ether, as observed in Hospitals. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 22d, p. 747. Dr. F. W. Pavy.—The Physiological Effects of White Precipitate on Animals. Guy's Hosp. Rep., vol. vi, p. 483. Kolliker.—On WundVs Experiments ivith Conia and Salt. Verh. d. phys.-med. Ges. in Wiirzburg, 1859, vol. ix, part 2, 3, p. 55. Dr. B. W. Richardson. — The Influence of Oxygen on the Animal Body. Meeting Brit, Association, Oxford. Lancet, 7th July. Dr. Edward Smith.—The Action of Tea and Alcohol on the Animal Economy Contrasted. In a paper read before tbe British Association, at its Oxford meeting, Smitb contrasted the action of tea and alcobols, as deduced chiefly from his own inquiries, published in the ' Philosoph. Trans.,' for 18^9, and appended the conditions to which each is severally suited or otherwise. In reference to tea, he stated the action to be as follows when taken in moderate doses : 1. It increases all vital actions, as shown by the increased evolution of carbon by the lungs and of nitrogen by the kidneys, the last fact being attested by the experiments of C. G. Lehmann and himself. 2. It increases the ease, frequency, and depth of respiration. 3. It does not increase pulsation. 4. It increases the action of the skin by promoting evaporation and loss of heat. 5. It does not diminish or disturb nervous, mental, or muscular actions, but probably increases them, and is not followed by reaction. In larger doses, nausea or narcotism sometimes occurs. Small doses (twenty-five grains), frequently repeated, have fourfold influence over the respiration of 150 grains taken at once. The most suitable dose is fifty grains. The addition of acids increases pulsation, lessens the action upon the skin, and renders it more stimulating, whilst alkalies have the con- trary effect, and caustic alkalies destroy it. In its application, it is unfitted to the following conditions : 1. In the absence of food, and therefore at breakfast. 2. To the ill-fed ; to those of spare habit, with rapid vital actions ; to the young ; to prison dietary ; to support exertion, except with much food; to those who perspire too freely ; to low temperatures, except with excess of fat food. The author considers it to be most suited to the following conditions : In the later hours of the day, when the vital powers are lessening ;