242 REPORT ON rHACTICAL MEDICINE. \\ am.mann.— Contributions to the statistics of Granular Disease of the Lire,-. abater. Zcitschr. fiir prukt. Ileilkunde, No. 9, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 196. Wallmann observed 1 case of granular disease among every 54-16 autopsies, a) tlie military p. in. room at Vienna, and found among 24 cases, 8 of partial, and 16 of total degeneration. In 13 cases there was icteric tinging of the skin; in 21 ascites or other dropsy; in 19 splenic enlargement; in 13 diseased conditions of the heart and vessels; in 8 pneumonia. Spirit drinking did not appear to be a frequent cause, disease of the heart was much more. Most of the cases were under set. 30; 22 were males. Kletzinsky.—On Lithodialysis. (Ester Zeitsch. f. prakt. Heilk. No. 11. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 213. Kletzinsky concludes from his trials that no effectual means of dis- solving urinary concretions iu the living body, can yet be said to exist. Segaxas.—On the use of Nitrate of Silver in certain Chronic Diseases of tlie Genito-urinary Organs. Union Med. 42, 45, 48. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 217. Segalas recommends lunar caustic in strictures and false passages; also in " pertes semmales," and in catarrh of the bladder. Friedberg.—On a case of Struma Cystica. Virch. Archiv., Vol. 16, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 256. In Friedberg's case a goitre pressed upon the larynx and trachea displacing- them to the left, the right St. CI. mastoid muscle to the right. The vertical movement of the thyroid cartilage on the cricoid was impeded, and the voice (probably in consequence) was deep and harsh, and after a few sentences had been uttered became hoarse and jarring. The glottis being unduly open, the pressure of "the air on tlie surface of the air cells was diminished, and in consequence the flow of blood to the lungs was increased, and the return current diminished. After an operation for the removal of the tumour, the voice became in 8 days clear and sound; the difficulty in breathing and speaking vanished; the pulmonary catarrh ceased; and on the 14th day the patient was discharged. Lotzbeck.—Surgical Report from the Clinic of Prof. v. Brum, in Tubingen. Deutsche Klinik, No. 6] 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 256. After an account of several cases of thyroideal cancer, Lotzbeck describes the treatment of struma cystica by iodine injections, which has proved extremely successful. The proceeding seems to be identical with that used in ovarian cysts. Dickinson.—On diseases of the Kidney accompanied by Albuminuria, con- sidered in relation to their Origin in change occurring in the l\ibes or in the Inter-tubular Structure. Med.-Chir. Trans., i860, p. 226. L'nder the term tubular disease, Dickinson includes all tlie varieties oi the large smooth kidney, of which the pathology essentially consists