77 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 3 The fibrocartilaginous and fibrous portion of the bronchial tubes ; some minute capillaries, derived from these, extend into the mucous mem- brane, but do not in anyway anastomose with the proper vascular plexus belonging to this structure. 3. The bronchial artery supplies the walls and processes of the leaflets with arterial blood. 4. Some small branches arrive at the surface of the lungs, and anasto- mose freely with other branches of the same artery in the sub-pleural cellular tissue. The bronchial artery forms no sort of anastomosis with the pulmonary system in any part of the lungs. The bronchial veins are of two sorts—one forms a free system of inosculation on the surface of the lungs, the other in the loose cellular tissue surrounding the bronchial tubes. They both have valves, and large intercommunicating trunks, &c. L. Mandl.—Researches on Pulmonary Osmose. Compt. Rend., p. 645, 26th March, i860. 1. The life of animals breathing by gills is destroyed by the presence of a certain quantity of saccharine matter in the medium they inhabit. 2. The rapidity of death depends on the species of animal and the kind and quantity of saccharine substance present. 3. Infusoria die instantly in water containing one fifth part of sugar, >lucose, glycerine, or mannite ; they live four or five minutes in a con- :entrated solution of milk sugar. They perish in from six to eight minutes 11 water containing one twenty-fifth of mannite, whereas they live three imes as long in a solution of cane sugar of the same strength. 4. Numerous experiments on many different kinds of animals led he author to the opinion that in the above-named cases death is not lue to an absence of air, or to fermentation, or to a chemical action on the lood, but simply to the osmotic powers of the saccharine matters. Many physiological and pathological phenomena are explained by the ismotic powers of saccharine matter. Thus, the thirst excited after the ngestion of sugar, by absorbing the water of the tissues with which it omes in contact; the antiseptic properties of sugar, by arresting the levelopment of organized beings ; the digestive properties of small quan- ities of sugar, by exciting the flow of gastric juice ; while, on the other land, the introduction of large quantities into the blood, increases its ismotic power, and explains the advantage of sugar in dropsies. The •xcess of sugar in all the tissues also explains the constant thirst of liabetic patients, the impossibility of any serous accumulation, and >erhaps, also, by the arrest of the circulation, the gangrene which is ccasionally observed in this affection. I. Grkiiaut.—On the Vital Capacity of the Human Lungs. Compt. Rend., July, i860, p. 21. )r. T. Graham Balfour.—Contribution to the Study of Spirometry. Trans. Med. and Chir. Soc, p. 263. Med. Times and Gaz., 4th Aug., p. 119. The author's researches confirm the observations on the vital capacity