255 CUTANE0T7S SYSTEM. Hardy attempts a simpler and more natural arrangement of skin diseases, rejecting that usually adopted in England. The form which the disorder presents, he regards as secondary, and looks chiefly to its nature, lie makes 10 groups, including cancerous, scrofulous, and syphilitic affections, as well as the exanthemata. Dl-ciiesxe-Dltarc.—Practical Treatise of Dermatoses, or Skin Diseases classed according to the Natural Method. Paris, Bailliere, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 293. Duchesne-Duparc is a devoted follower of Alibert, at least in the matter of nomenclature; he makes 11 groups of skin diseases, which do not differ materially in principle of arrangement from Hardy's. v. Barensprung.—Skin Diseases. 1 Lieferung, Erlangen, Enke, 1859, 8. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 293. Barensprung considers skin diseases under the heads of derange- ments of innervation, of secretion, and of nutrition. He endeavours to examine not mere external appearances, but the morbid process in its entirety. Heschl.—On Cutaneous Horns. Oesterrh. Zeitsch. f. prakt. Heilkde, 1859, 4. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 298. Heschl recognizes, with Virchow, 3 kinds of horns; one (the rarest) is formed upon an elongated papilla of the skin; a second grows out of sebaceous follicle (the commonest form), and a thud seems to be produced by a circumscribed ichthyosis. He records the case of a Jewish girl, who had 16 of this latter sort. Hecker.—Elephantiasis, or Lepra Arabica. Monograph with 5 litho- graphic plates. Fridburg, 1858. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 298. Hecker relates a case of elephantiasis in a female, aet. 32, which terminated fatally after an operation for its removal. He says the exudation is in a high degree organizable, analogous to plastic lymph, as it contains innumerable molecular granulations, and an immense number of nuclei free or enclosed in cells very different from their analogues in the lymphatic glands. He thinks an operation should not be performed when the disease is endemic, and general dyscrasia exists. Hebra.—Clinic for Skin Diseases; Cutaneous Haemorrhages. All gem. Wicn. Med. Ztg., 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, 304. Hebra distinguishes cutaneous haemorrhages into 2 groups; the idiopathic, occurring as mere local affections, and the symptomatic, occasioned by other morbid processes. Among the latter, he notices Peliosis rheumat. or Roseola rheum., which is prone to relapse several times, and to recur for months or even years; also Purp. febrilis, which is always complicated with internal haemorrhage, and always proves fatal in 3 or 4 days. He remarks, in general, that no safe diagnosis can be formed from the external appearances only, all the existing symptoms must be taken into account.