HBPOET OX SUItGETtY. 270 A categorical description of the various forms of sutures, composed of two or three rows of stitches, hitherto used or proposed, with indications for their application. Stuassek, Dr.—Collodion Dressing. Schweizer Monatsschr., April. Canst., vol. iv, p. 137. After the wound has been closed with straps of plaster, or Butures, it is to be covered with a hiyer of charpie soaked in collodion. Gustav, Simon.—On the Use of Ilorse-hair for Closing Wounds by the Bloody Suture. Correspondenzblatt des Vereins fur gem. Arbeiten, &c.j No. 1. Canst., vol. iv, p. 139. Horse-hairs, of middle thickness, are recommended as an excellent sub- stitute for silver wire. 6. Local Baths. Zeis.—Permanent or Prolonged Local Baths in various Local Diseasei. A Practical Treatise, by Prof. Ed. Zeis. Leipsic and Heidelberg. Schmidt, No. 9, vol. 107, p. 316. Zeis has the merit of having extensively applied and improved the treatment of various local affections by submersion under water, a method recently recommended by Langenbeck, Flock, and others. Forty-eight hours after the operation, amputation stumps of the thigh and leg were placed in water of 32°—340 R., and kept in it during eight to ten days, after which the limb was bandaged in the usual manner. Accidental wounds of all kinds, ulcers of the legs, &c, were treated by Zeis very successfully in this way. Szymanowski.—Immersion and Irrigation. Deutsche Klin., No. 17, 18. Schmidt, No. 9, vol. 107, p. 318. Szymanowski cuts the receptacles for holding the parts to be immersed out of sheet india rubber, and joins the edges by touching them with petroleum, and afterwards pressing them firmly together. 7. Disinfection. Vei.peau.—New Mode of Disinfection, and of Dressing Wounds. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 158. A note from Dcmeaux et Corne on the disinfecting and deodorizing properties of a mixture of coal-tar and plaster of Paris, presented to the Acad<§mie des Sciences by Velpeau. AMPUTATION. Heyfeldeu, J. F.—On Double Amputations, informed simultaneously or immediately following each other. Deutsche Klinik, No. 39. Canst., vol. v, p. 210. The author relates several cases in which double amputation was unfortunately necessary. In such cases the severity of the injuries sus- tained is so great, that they would probably terminate fatally without operation.