BLOOD-STAINS. 4.31 baryta, or one twentieth of pure chalk ; in this manner the glycerine is deprived of its acid reaction. It is now to be filtered and diluted with eight times its volume of distilled water. The product is a very stable liquid, of about 1028 sp. gr. In order to demonstrate the change of colour from red into green, so characteristic of the colouring matter of the blood, Kletzinsky employs phosphate of magnesia. Three grammes of magnesia are to be made into a milk with 100 centimetres of distilled water, to which thirty centimetres of dilute phosphoric acid, of the specific gravity of 113 (15 per cent., PO5), are to be added, and after digesting for some time, to be filtered, and reduced by evaporation to the volume of one litre. Of this liquid, which contains about eight per cent, of phosphate of magnesia, one cubic centimetre is sufficient to give a distinct indication of hsematine, on adding it to the suspected liquid in an ordinary test-tube, in which it has been previously heated with potash. If hsematine be present, the precipitated phosphate of magnesia will collect at the bottom of the test-tube, of a more or less distinct blood colour, edged with green. A second method for the same purpose consists in precipitating with ammonia a solution of alum. The hydrate of alumina thus obtained is to be thoroughly washed on a filter, dissolved in caustic potash, and the solution evaporated to the volume of one litre. The suspected liquid is to be heated with two cubic centimetres of this solution. On the addi- tion of one cubic centimetre of concentrated solution of chloride of ammo- nium, a precipitate of hydrate of alumina is obtained, which is to be allowed to stand for several hours; it will then display, if hsematine be present, a very distinct dichromatism, in which green is the prevalent colour. BiiciiNER and Simon.—Researches on Hcemin Crystals, and on their leyal import. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xv, parts 1 and 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 1.3. The following process for the detection of blood-stains is recommended by the authors as best adapted for medico-legal purposes. After sepa- rating the colouring matter of the stain from the object on which it is found, whether by mechanical means in the case of articles of wood or clothing, or by gently healing those made of iron, the effect of which is to make the stain peel off in scales, it is to be digested in acetic acid, with the aid of heat, until the acid becomes distinctly red, or reddish. From this solution crystals may be obtained by evaporation. Mure.xide, both with and without acetic acid, forms crystals, which re- semble those of hoemin both in form and colour; but the colour of the evaporated liquid, and its reaction with hydrochloric acid and potash, are perfectly distinctive. Hydrochloric acid decomposes murexide, and potash dissolves it of an indigo-blue colour. Scriba.—On a Characteristic Property of Blood-stains. N. Jahrbuch r. Fharmacie, vol. xi, p. 289. This paper relates to the medico-legal application of Teichmann's dis- covery, that blood yields, with acetic acid, rhomboidal crystals, of a sub- stance to which he assigns the name of hcemin, in contradistinction to