BBPOET ON LEO A I, MEDICINE AND PUULIC HYOIKNE. 111. this method is applicable to cases in which other processes have given such indecisive results, ns to render it impossible to pronounce an opinion either for or against the presence of the poison. Ulondlot.—Influence of Fatty Bodies on the Solubility of Arsenious Acid. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxvii, p. 170. The author has shown that the solubility of arsenious acid, both in neutral and feebly acid or alkaline liquids, is diminished enormously in the presence even of n trace of fatty matters. He tbinks tbat the harmless presence of masses of arsenious acid in tbe stomach, occasionally observed, may be thus accounted for, and proposes to employ milk and otber liquids containing fats as antidotes. Hoffmann.— On the Separation of Arsenic from Antimony. Quart. Journal of Chem. Sci., vol. xiii, p. 79. Arseniurctted hydrogen, as well as antimoniuretted hydrogen, are absorbed readily by a solution of nitrate of silver; but, in the one case, arsenious acid along with metallic silver, in the other insoluble antimonide of silver (Ag3 Sb), is produced. The antimonide is soluble in tartaric acid, by which means it may be readily separated from the silver. Glover.—On a Modification of the Chlorate-of-Potash Method for the Oxidation of Organic Matter or the Detection of Mineral Poisons. Cbem. News. December 24th, 1859. The author introduces three or four ounces of chlorate of potash into a large flask, fitted with a thistle funnel and conducting tube. Hydro- chloric acid (sp. gr. 0.05, that is, one part HC1 to two parts water) is to be added, heat applied, and the disengaged gases passed through the liquid containing the organic matter. In this way, the inconvenience which arises in the ordinary process from the crystallization of chloride of potassium in the liquid is obviated. Redwood.—On the alleged Presence of Arsenic and Antimony in Grey Powder. Pharmac, p, 450. It having been stated by a witness, at the trial of Smethurst, that gray powder contains occasionally these metals, Redwood submitted numerous specimens to analysis ; of all of which tbe results were negative. The processes employed were found to be capable of readily detecting To ffcJo Part °f «rseni°us ac'd when added to the powder. Schmidt and Bretschnetder.— On the Poisonous Action of Metallic Arsenic. Moleschott, vol. vi, p. 146. Canst., vol. v, p. 86. The authors maintain that Schroff, in attributing a poisonous action to metallic arsenic, had been led into error by the rapid oxidation of the metal; and maintain that, when given to animals in a state of purity, it passes unaltered through the alimentary canal. Schroff.— Further Contribution to the Solution of the Question, "Is Metallic Arsenic Poisonous ?" Wien. Ztchr. N. P„ vol. ii, p. 44. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 176. In pursuance of his former experiments, the author endeavours to determine the effect on the organism of the most insoluble form of metallic arsenic—that in which it possesses a white colour and metallic lustre. He