849 OBSTETRICAL ACCIDENTS. seized with coma, difficult respiration, with bloody expectoration, and died in fifteen minutes. The other had much the same symptoms as regards the lungs, but no coma. Both were largely bled. The second recovered. In the first case the author considered that pulmonary apoplexy was present. No autopsy. J. C. Dalton, Jun.—Entry of Air into the Veins after Parturition. Am. Med. Month., June, i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 22d, i860, P- 743- The author mentions a case in which a gutta-percha catheter was used to rupture the membranes and procure abortion. The patient fell back and died, and air was found in the veins and heart; and it was believed by the surgeon that air had been blown in through the catheter, in order to produce the desired effect. Concealed Accidental Hcemorrhage. Henry James. — Report of Two Cases of Concealed Accidental Uterine Hcemorrhage. Lancet, Nov. 3, i860, p. 428. Mr. James relates two cases of concealed accidental haemorrhage, in one of which, however, there was external haemorrhage. In both ergot and brandy were given, and in both the membranes were ruptured arti- ficially. Result favorable in both cases. Dr. Braxton Hicks.— On Concealed Accidental Hcemorrhage during the latter Months of Pregnancy and Labour. Obst. Trans., vol.ii, p. 53. Dr. Braxton Hicks analyses twenty-three cases in which concealed acci- dental haemorrhage (a rare and, as yet, hardly recoguised obstetrical acci- dent) occurred near the end of pregnancy. The symptoms of this often fatal accident were very similar in each. If there be syncope, if the uterus be tense and enlarging, the outline of the foetus indistinct, the liquor amnii having escaped, the occurrence of this form of haemorrhage is to be suspected. If there be sufficient power, the modern treatment for accidental haemorrhage is applicable ; in other cases, support, pressure, and excitation of the uterus are the means recommended. Dr. Lowes.—Detachment of the Placenta. Med. Times and Gaz., June 16, i860, p. 609. A case of concealed accidental haemorrhage. Post-Partum Hcemorrhage. J. Gaillard Thomas.—Lectures on Post-Partum Hcemorrhage; its Prevention. N. Y. Journ. Med., Jan. and March, i860, pp. 80 and 211. The causes of post-partum haemorrhage are,—1, inertia uteri • 2 uterine exhaustion ; 3, sudden evacuation of its contents ; 4, adherent placenta ; 5, distension of uterus by blood ; 6, mental emotion ; 7, an excited state of the circulation. The rules to be followed with a view to its prevention are—1, to allow the body of the child to be expelled by the natural efforts; 2, to firmly compress the uterus and follow the child down in its birth; to hold the uterus constantly in the hand until the bandage is applied ; 4, never to apply the bandage until the placenta is delivered ; 5, to remove the placenta, if detached within twenty minutes • 6, to avoid Btimulants during delivery ; 7, never to leave the chamber