141 GEN'ERAL SYSTEM, TREATISES. a warm bath, emetic, purgative dose of calomel, followed by calomel gr.ij, Opii gv.}, 2dis. horis, till slight salivation occurred; stimulants were given when the strength began to fail. At the Naval Hospital no calomel and opium was given, but an ordinary diaphoretic and diuretic mixture with chlorate of potash. Gibb.—On the Properties and Uses of Sanguin. Canad. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 4th and nth, i860. Gibb states that Sanguin. Canad. is of great virtue as an emmena- gogue in skin diseases, as an emetic in the croupal form of diphtheria, as an expectorant in chronic bronchitis and certain stages of phthisis, and generally as a diaphoretic, stimulant, and alterative. For physio- logical effects see Report on the Institutes of Medicine, p. 59. Crighton.—On Diphtheria. Edin. Med. J., Feb., i860. Crighton records his experience of diphtheria at Chapel en le Frith, N. B. He saw 45 cases: 25 males, and 20 females. Of these, 9 died: 6 by asphyxia, 3 by asthenia; the eldest was 14 and the youngest 3 years old. Eight of the fatal cases, and several other severe ones showed marked indications of struma. In cases seen from the first he never failed to notice as the earliest local symptom of the disease, the occurrence on the mucous membrane, of a thick ropy fluid, which subsequently became converted into the diphtheritic pellicle if local treatment was delayed. Severe diarrhoea was a symptom occasionally present, as also epistaxis. Herpes labialis was common. The other symptoms were the same as have been observed by others. Dr. Crighton traces the causation of the disease to defective sanitary arrangements, and thinks that its contagiousness is very slight. He gave internally Tr. Ferri Mur. m..iv—viij, 2dis. vel stiis. horis, with Liq. Ammon. Acet., and locally applied a mixture of equal parts of Tr. Fer. Mur. and Acid. Muriat. dil., more or less diluted. To the early application of this he attaches very great importance, and states that when so used the exudation is coagulated, loosened, and speedily detached. W. Budd.—On intestinal Fever and the nature of the Intestinal Affection. Lancet, Feb. 25, March 10th. W. Budd gives 3 figures of the eruption in the small and large intestines, _ and argues that the intestinal discharges contain the especial miasm of the disease which, being poured into drains, may afterwards emanate from them. He points out that on the common view, which regards the miasm of enteric fever as merely the result of decomposing filth, it is impossible to explain the non-production of fever in thickly-peopled courts, where the air is loaded with such effluvia. He has full assurance that the spread of fever might be arrested by placing, on each occasion, a caustic solution of zinc in the utensils used by the sick. Hauner. — On Nitrate of Silver in Diphtheria. Froriep's Notizen, Vol. ii., No. 21, 1859. Med. T. nnd Gaz., March iotli.