130 kepoiit on the institutes of medicine. A. W. Vol km ann,—On the Elasticity of Organic Tissues. Reichert and Du Bois' Archiv f. Anat. und Physiol., 1859, p. 293. Canst., vol. i, p. 22. In order to determine whether, as Wundt had asserted, in organic tissues, as in other elastic bodies, extensibility and elasticity are propor- tional, the author recorded, with the aid of the ky mographion, the changes in length sustained by a silk thread, a human hair, a dog's artery, a human vagus nerve, and three lingual muscles of frogs. The results of his observations confirm the fact, that the extensibility of the organic tissues is not proportional to their elasticity, but as the latter increases, the former proportionally diminishes. Lambl.—On the Epithelial Cells of the Intestinal Mucous Membrane as Protective Organs, and on the Mechanism of Absorption. Wiener Med. Wochensch., 1859, Nos. 24, 25. The author finds that the cap-shaped bodies of the intestinal epithelial cells are, normally, not striated, but smooth, uniformly lustrous, and strongly refractive. Amici agrees with him in regarding the stria? as due to the use of object-glasses of insufficient aperture. Lambl believes that the little caps are rims which produce a cup-shaped space on the surface of each epithelial column. Striation and vertical splitting occur in disease—e. g., about tuberculous ulcers and in amyloid epithelial degene- ration. The author thinks that with the peristaltic pressure the epi- thelial cells become narrower and longer, and the "basic crater" deeper. Possibly the basic ring presses on the chyme-drop, and thereby increases the pressure exercised by the peristaltic movement. Jeannel.—Researches on the Absorption and Assimilation of Emidsions of the Fatty Oils, and on the Dynamic Action of the Fatty Salts of Mercury. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii, p. 581. The author observed—(1) that an emulsion prepared from an aqueous solution of carbonate of potash and oil is quickly absorbed when injected into the intestine or peritoneum (dogs) ; (2) the emulsion may be injected with impunity into the jugular vein ; (3) oleostearate of mercury does not irritate the denuded corium or connective tissue ; (4) large doses induce paralysis of the hind legs, which is speedily followed by death ; (5) the oleostearate of mercury does not produce salivation in man, even when taken in considerable quantity. Tu. Ackermann.—Researches on the Influence of Suffocation on the Quantity of Blood in the Brain and Lungs. Virchow's Arch., vol. xv, p. 401. Canst., vol. i, p. 43. In order to observe the stale of the vessels of the brain under normal conditions and after death from suffocation, the author removed a portion of the skull and corresponding part of the dura mater from rabbits, after- wards closing the aperture with a glass plate and collodion. All the observations were made in concert with Bergmann. When a cord was drawn very tightly round the animal's neck, the brain retained its normal red colour to the end ; when, however, the ligature was comparatively slack, or only applied to the windpipe, the vessels, especially the veins, soon assumed a purple hue, and, at the same time, the larger vessels