REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 146 account of his autopsies, pointing- out defects which, lie thinks, impair the weight of his evidence. Bell next adduces evidence in proof of a community of origin between typhus and typhoid, and details three marked instances in which both forms of fever occurred in the same family and at the same time, the infection spreading, to all appear- ancc, from a single case. After quoting the confirmative evidence of Dr. Stokes and Dr. IIuss, he proceeds to a critical examination of tlie arguments of Dr. Jenucr and Dr. Murchison. In particular, he dissents from the view that typhoid fever arises from the putrid emanations of cesspools, or typhus from overcrowding and destitution, or that either form occurs only in the vicinity of their assumed foci. He objects that no essential difference has been demonstrated between the ah breathed by those exposed to sewer emanations, and that inhaled by those who are huddled together in badly-ventilated apartments. Cases regarded as typhus, followed, during convalescence by typhoid, he interprets as cases of typhus with enteric disease, which has not improved simulta- neously with the general amendment. The converse case he believes to be simple muco-enteritis, followed by typhus. Crisp.—Cases of Diphtheria. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 27th. Crisp records a mortality of 8 out of 27 cases. Albumen was not constantly present in the mine. No connection was noticed between the disease and scarlet fever. In most of the cases, the hygienic con- ditions were very unfavorable. Font an.—Neiu Experiments regarding the Origin of Cow-pox. L'Union Med., 29th May, i860. Edin. Med. J., i860. Pontan relates, that some mares being affected with a pustular erup- tion called grease (eaux aux jambes), the matter from the pustules was inoculated on the teat of a cow, where it produced several fine pustules. From these several infants were vaccinated, with the result of producing perfectly characterised vaccine vesicles. Thirty infants have been vaccinated from this source at Toulouse, and in all, the result has been most satisfactory. Martin.—Attempt to procure Vaccine Matter from the Original Source. Production of True Variola. Boston Med. and Surg. J., Feb. 23rd, i860. Edin. Med. J., July. Martin inoculated some variolous matter, taken from a pock upon the body of a man who died of variola, into a cow's udder, and suhsc- quently vaccinated about fifty persons with matter derived from the cow. Most of those so inoculated were attacked with variola, and three died. Hicord.—On Iodism. L'Union Med., March 8, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, i860. Ricord states, that Pot. Iod. not only causes the rapid disappear- ance of the symptoms for which it is prescribed, but also greatly improves the general health. The globules of the blood are increased, the strength restored, and the weight augmented.