REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. MEDICAL RESPONSIBILITY. Malpraxis. Toulmouchb.-On JudicalAutopsies in eases of Natural Death and « \XTo ' 9 ^ t0 th°8e Mi***e,. Ann d'Hyg xiv A collection of cases derived from an experience of thirty years, LI f Tl dea,thS b6Came the subJect °f Judicial investigat on Tbt most frequent are those of cerebral hemorrhage, pneumonfa and mil ZZiT^ , Am°ng thG m°re Uncommo" -Les of sudden dePa b trsSnAZZ ^ VaSe °f Cr0UP' of gangrenous abscess of the nS buisting mto the pleural cavity, cases of typhoid fever, and phlebitis. K^IISOH.r-Medico-legal Opinions of the Royal Prussian .Scientific Com* mission for Medical Afairs, fr. Leipsic, i859. Cases i, 2,3, 4,and I2. Niemann (he. e\£-Injuries of the Female Organs of Generation ■ Autopsies of Women dying after Delivery. J $$. Death in consequence of partial reparation of the placenta- with re erence to the obstetrical treatment employed. 56. Injury of the, external organs 57. Uterine hemorrhage/ 58. Gangrene of uterus head of the child retained in the uterus ; Cesarean section. 80. Prolapse of the cord ; death of the child by apoplexy; imputation of negligence^ against the practitioner. 0 c Dambue.—On the Discretion of the Practitioner, in its Medico-leaaV Relations. Ann. Med. Psych., 3 ser., vol. v, p. 621. Kalisch.— On the Mistakes of Practitioners. Leipzig, 3mo, pp 31 j SIMULATED DISEASES. Ebe-rs.—Hyperesthesia of the Sense of Smell as a Forensic Question. A Thief Smeller. Opinion of the Royal Medical College of Silesia Casper, xvi, part 2. Canst., vii, p. 22. Fabeb.—Simulation of Stone in the Bladder. Deut. Zeit., vol. xiv, part 1. Canst., vii, p. 22. In this case bits of plaster of various sizes were introduced into the urethra, with simulation of the pains usually attendant on calculus. The cheat was discovered by submitting the material to chemical analysis. Schaible.—Opinion on a case of Pretended Mania. Deut. Zeit., vol. xiii, part 1. Krauss.—Case of Pretended Imbecility of an Incendiary, heard before the Jury-court of Tubingen. Friedreich, vol. x, part 1. Canst.,' vii, p. 22.