REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 410 Elleuslie Wallace.—Imperforate Rectum. Am. Med. Journ., April i860, p. 375. T. B. Curling.—Imperforate Anus in an Infant ; Operation ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gnz., July 28th, i860, p. 78. Friedb hug. On a Case of Congenital Closure of the Anus. Virch. Arch., 1859, 17, 147. Timothy Holmes.—Parts concerned in Littre's Operation for Artificial Anus. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 99. The patient, a female, oet. 3 days, died after Littre's operation. It was found after death that, although the distended rectal pouch extended low down, it was so covered by the peritoneal pouch that the establish- ment of a communication from the anus would have been difficult. wounds, etc. Krulle.—On Injuries of the Foetus. Varges' Zeitscht., vol. xiv, p. 3. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 329. The author here gives the result of a critical survey of the recorded cases of injuries of the foetus. Most of those cases where the injury of the foetus is ascribed to the effect of a dull force exercised on the abdomen of the mother, such as a blow, a strain, a fall, &c, are really cases of ab- normal conditions of the foetal skeleton, and may be in some cases associated with solutions of continuity of the soft parts. That the fcetus may be injured or killed by blows, sharp instruments, &c, acting from without, cannot of course be doubted. He divides injuries into three classes : 1. Injuries of the bones of the fcetus, of the extremities, or of the trunk of the fcetus. Here the cause is often defective ossification of the bones. When the condition disappears before birth, the fractures may be found connected by callus. Many of the cases where fractures are found to exist after delivery, are to be set down as cases of fracture during delivery. When the bones of the foetus are not well ossified, there is no doubt that solutions of continuity may be produced in them by internal causes. The more the muscular system is developed, and the greater the movements of the fcetus, the more easily will this take place. A dull force, such as a fall, a blow, &c, cannot, it is contended, fracture the bones of the foetus unless it be so severe as to affect very obviously the mother also. Only a very great force would be sufficient so to compress the abdomeu as to fracture the bones ; the application of such force induces labour. It must be recollected, too, that pregnant women frequently suffer blows, falls.'&c, and yet fractures of the foetal bones are very rare. 2. Injuries of the cranial bones. There are few recorded cases in which the influence of external force in causing injury to the fcetal skull has been proved, and in such cases the mother has always been considerably injured. Injuries of the skull received during birth are characterised by the great distortion present. Respecting the influence of defective ossification in cases of injury to the fcetal cranial bones it is to be remarked, that a force applied to the head under such circumstances would more readily then than at other times produce an injury. 3. Injuries of the soft parts of the foetus. Contusions and blood-extravasations are more easily produced than frac- tures. Sometimes also we find wounds, the openings of abscesses, which it is