POISONS AND POISONING. 453 9. The Alkaloids. Worm ley —On the Chemical Reactions of Strychnia, Atropine, Brucia, Morphia, Narcotine, and Meconic Acid. Chem. News, April 14th and 28th, June i6tb, July 21st, Sept. 1st, 15th, and 29th. Accidental Poisoning by Opium. Brit. Med. Joum., June 2d. A gentleman Mas treated for acute rheumatism by large doses of acetate of morphia and opium. During the four hours which preceded his death he had taken i of a grain of opium every hour; previously to which period i\ grain of acetate of morphia and i\ grain of opium had been administered in the course of twenty-four hours, without pro- ducing any perceptible effect. Death was preceded by convulsions, in addition to the ordinary symptoms of poisoning by opium. Case of Accidental Poisoning at Canterbury. Pharmac, p. 387, Jan. Several persons were poisoned in November, 1859, by black draughts, in the preparation of each of which about one third of liquor opii was introduced by mistake. The druggist at whose shop this occurred was tried for manslaughter, and acquitted. Pat.f.v.—Case of Poisoning by Strychnia. Brit. Med. Joum., Aug. 4th. Chem. News, Sept. 29th. M. J. P., set. 17, a healthy young woman, was suddenly attacked in a chapel, during service, with convulsion. She was able to walk home as- sisted, but three quarters of an hour after, a second fit occurred which was followed at intervals of from fifteen to twenty minutes by four others, during the last of which she died. Several of these paroxysms were wit- nessed by Dr. Paley. Each accession commenced with convulsive twitch- ings of the limbs, which gradually increased in violence and in the number of muscles affected. Soon all the affected muscles became rigid, the movements of respiration ceased, the pulse could not be felt, and the pa- tient appeared dead. This was followed by gradual relaxation and the breathing and circulation were re-established. The period of apncea lasted a quarter of a minute. Up to the moment of its commencement the patient was conscious, and on one occasion exclaimed, " Hold me, hold me," immediately before the muscles became rigid. At the commence- ment of this period the face was livid, but almost immediately became pale. Spasmodic rigidity continued fifteen or twenty minutes after death, but shortly afterwards disappeared. The autopsy was performed after twenty-three hours; there was then no "unusual rigidity." With the exception of slight traces of inflammation of the stomach and ileum, and of general congestion of the thoracic and abdominal organs, the body was healthy. It does not, however, appear what was the condition of the heart and great vessels as regarded the quantity of blood which they con- tained. The stomach, with its contents, and other organs were submitted to Dr. Letheby. The method used was the following :—The contents of the stomach were digested in alcohol and filtered. The filtrate was pre- cipitated with subacetate of lead, and again filtered ; the second filtrate was treated by sulphuretted hydrogen to remove the excess of lead, and the resulting filtrate evaporated. The residue was dissolved in water rendered slightly alkaline by ammonia, and treated with a large excess of ether ;