REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 30 (2) That the blood in the sinus of Valsalva plays an important part in their closure during the diastole. (3) That but a minimum of blood is driven back into the ventricle by the elasticity of the arterial walls. (4) As the valves are always separated by a certain quantity of blood from the walls of the sinuses, they can never close the coronary arteries. A. C. J. Biiessleii.— The Cardiac Diastole. Utrecht, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 35. This dissertation after treating of the recent views of muscular elasti- city and contractility, and applying them to the heart, gives the result of experiments made on the dead hearts of men, quadrupeds, and birds, to learn the effects of the penetration of liquids into the coronary arteries upon the size of the ventricular cavities. A manometer placed in the pulmonary vein indicated that the filling of the coronary arteries expands the walls of the heart, and increases the size of its ventricular cavities. J. M. Cohen.—The Myodynamics of the Heart and Blood-vessels. Berlin, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 34. Cohen conceives that the heart's transverse and longitudinal fibres contract by turns, like the antagonistic voluntary muscles, and that the contraction of the one set causes the relaxation of the other. The ven- tricular systole he believes to be the rhythmical contraction of the trans- verse fibres, from which action he draws, with the aid of his ideas regarding antagonism, various conclusions as to the action of the valves. He defends the view that the heart's impulse occurs during the diastole. Gerhardt.—On the Heart's Movements. Verhandlung d. phys. mcd. Ges. zu Wurzb., vol. ix, parts 2 & 3. Canst., vol. 1, p. 36. Gerhardt's observations were made on a lad, aged eighteen, in whom an intestinal fistula allowed the point of the finger to penetrate as far as the diaphragm and apex of the heart. The heart was felt to move during the systole to the left and downwards while the patient was lying on his left side and breathing deeply. A distinct descent of the margin of the right ventricle was perceived during sleep, and even during calm inspiration. The lower portion of the heart and corresponding part of the diaphragm shifted downwards and to the right when the patient lay on his right side; to the left and upwards when he turned over to the left side. B. Vierorht.—The Laio of Dependence of the Mean Periods of Circu- lation upon the Mean Rates of Pulse in different Animals, based upon Experiments on Mammals and Birds. Wunderlich's Archiv, 1858, part 4, p. 527.) The law formerly announced, and here corroborated, is, that the average number of the heart's beats corresponding to the circuit of the blood°amounts, in mammalia, to 26—28, no matter whether the mean rate of the pulse natural to the species be high or low. Forty-eight ex- periments on eight species of mammals gave an average of 26-8. In birds the law is similar to that in mammals, sixteen experiments on seven species giving the number 28. It may be assumed that the mean period of the blood's circuit in these classes of animals corresponds to the time within which the heart performs 27 beats. Now, as the maximum frequency of the pulse of a young squirrel is 430 iu the minute,