48 [chap ALL ABOUT PIPING. CHAPTER IX. ORNAMENTS. Leave the centre open for the ornament. All bride- cake tops must be level. No raised central ornaments are essential. In continuation of Chapter VII. (Piping), I may say it is advisable to start piping a cake on top. Doing it in another way, viz., beginning at the sides and doing top after, you easily run the risk of coming in contact with your jacket or sleeves with the fresh piping, and thus spoil your own work. If the cake you are going to pipe be a bride-eake, you already^ will know, on beginning, whether its centre has to be filled out by a raised ornament or in another way, of which we shall soon speak.. If the cake is to be finished as suggested, then leave the cake's- centre, of about the size of the ornament's foundation, open, unpiped, which is done best by plainly making any round cutter of at least the same size, with the scissors or a knife in the cake's, central part. See in particular that your cake's surface shall be strictly level- Should the cake baked appear otherwise, I would not apply the knife, but in future keep the mixture a bit more thin, and this is done by adding a little more milk or cream. The cake's unevenness may be rectified easily when applying the almond icing. Cutting the bride's-cake top level is not to be recommended. It is not said that the centre of a bride's-cake must be finished by means of a raised ornament, or that any bride-cake finished in another style would not look well without one. But, understand me aright, I also say that if the cake in question is of more than one tier—being composed of two, three, or still more tiers—there is no better finishing for the top except with a raised central ornament. Any practical confectioner is required, and must be able, to^ finish a single-tier cake without a raised central ornament, and this in a decidedly tasteful style too. It may be done with artificial flowers and leaves, with roses of sugar, or made otherwise with sprays, festoons, wreaths, &c. What I dislike and detest is the application respecting finish- ing of a bride-cake with small gumpaste ornaments, such as leaves medallions, spangles, figures, doves, festoons, &c.