ICING IN GENERAL. 5 As gelatine—and this is the essential part of McGhie's icing j^g quite powder—is absolutely harmless, and known and used in every harmless, kitchen, confectionery, and household, I need not insist upon its utihty and harmlessness. Hundreds of various articles made on the Continent with the piping bag are known by their make, and find their way all over the globe : they are made, and can only be made exclusively with gelatine icing. But if fresh eggs could be employed, what should be done with all the yolks ? No manufacturer of these kinds of sweets could give any guarantee for safe delivery of such goods, unless made of gelatine icing. All such sweets are made in spring and summer, and packed up and forwarded on a journey of several months duration, reaching their destination, where they are offered for sale about Christmas. These sweets, made with gelatine icing, will really keep for years, which is impossible with all other kinds of icings. All the sugar-roses, commonly placed on wedding and other cakes, are made exclusively from gelatine icing, and everyone knows how long they will keep. Another great advantage of McGhie's icing powder (gelatine icing) is its great cheapness. No cheaper icing could be found than gelatine icing. The directions for use Mr. Robert McGhie gives on each packet. I have undertaken a most careful examination, and have only to state the accuracy of his statements. In dealing with everything appertaining to this kind of icing, I must add that this icing, in beating up, requires about two minutes longer. The solution will keep for months (far longer, as Mr. Robert McGhie presumes). It is advisable to keep the solution in a bottle, rather than in a jar or jug. No bottle containing this must be corked until the sohitio7i is Be careful quite cold^ and then it is to be recommended to cut a piece out it bottling, of the cork, to allow the air to enter constantly. Before bottling, straining is advisable, employing a fine sieve or cloth. See that the sieve is not broken, and that the cloth is quite clean. Let us return for an instant to the subject of icing from con- Solution to densed whites, about which I wish to observe that, before using be strained, any solution, it should be strained in the same way as gelatine icing. I cannot guarantee that, for instance, some small particle of an egg-shell will not be amongst it. When piping with a small tube, each of such small particles will cost you a bag. Therefore, let it alw^ays be strained. It is a small amount of labour, which saves many unnecessary interruptions when engaged in piping. Icing sugar must be sifted once before use. Put whites, or