V. PREFACE, But as to the illustrations which " Confectioner" Wells, that " light" from Scarborough, declares to be the outcome of his own practice (which, of course, anyone would expect from a man im- parting something to others), I hereby declare that "Confectioner" Wells himself is unable to do the things he wishes to teach others. A lot could and ought to be said about the different kinds of moulds required—and how quickly they run into a large amount— also as to the other instruments required, and the arrangement of the room for doing such work. But "Confectioner" Wells says nothing whatever about these matters : and this, believe me, he omitted for the plain reason that he himself is unable to speak about it and to teach it to others. I am certain that " Confectioner " Wells will take steps to cor- rect my statements if he thinks I have wronged him. But he can not only do to a great extent the piping and the gum-paste ornaments he produces in his book, and saying it to be his own work, but I am ready at any moment, and can prove and bring witnesses, that several of his illustrations have been stolen from other papers. Now, I think that everybody will know w^hat he has to think both of "Confectioner" AVells, that "light" from Scarborough, and of his ability as " Confectioner." In order to make a book sell, and this under a very promising title, like " Ornamental Confectionery," he principally composed it and makes it up book-like by a lot of illustrations of gum-paste ornaments. If there is any one confectioner who has not seen enough of such things, I recommend him to apply to any ornamental confec- tioner, asking for a price list, and from different places he will receive dozens of illustrations of that very kind gratis and free of charge. But these illustrations in his last book, which are really "the outcome of his own practice," are so clumsy and awkw^ard, that my pupils would be ashamed to reproduce them. Everybody will easily detect the motive of his great devotion to confectioners' literature. The motto he uses on the book's title page, namely : " Capio Lumen " is, therefore, I think, a mistake, he had better alter it to In Tenebris ainbiilo^^ (I walk in the darkness). But in order not only to criticise other people's work, but to give the proof how things, when correct, ought to look, I have decided to write this my "All About Piping;" it includes absolutely everything relating to ornamental confectionery. I scarcely need to assure my readers that this book is my own work throughout: I would be ashamed if it were not so. I shall add a reproduction of the censure which " Con- fectioner " Wells " Ornamental Confectionery" received at the