ALL ABOUT PIPING, 8 [chap. flavour altogether. The flavourings of a liquid substance, as em- ployed in English confectionery, are decidedly not to my taste, and give little in the way of beneficial result. One cake is im- proved by the addition of this flavouring, and another by that of some other kind. On my testing a sponge cake here, it is flavoured (frequently excessively) with lemon oil; on my tasting there say a scone, it is again flavoured with lemon oil; when I taste another piece of cake, a raspberry sandwich, or a piece of Genoa cake, or some current bread, or Madeira cake, or anything else, lemon flavour, and nothing but this is applied and frequently predominating. Why do you not discontinue the use of that stuff you call lemon oil in Madeira and similar cakes, replacing it, for instance, with a bit of nutmeg, ground with a grater on the flour? Try it once, your customers will like it; it is, believe me, a grand flavouring. But I must not dwell on the subject of flavouring, which would be out of place in a book entitled "All about Piping." Now tell me, when applying lemon oil in whites icing, how are we to expect to get icing stiff ? Is it ever possible ? While piping, your icing must always be covered with a damp cloth. When laying the icing aside after piping, see that the basin is covered all over. Neglected Icing once neglected in any way will get a skin, and, later, a icing. hard crust on the top; and then this icing is spoiled, and will never be fit for piping purposes. You need not make any experi- ment, believe me, your icing is useless for this work. The only thing you can do, to lessen the loss a little, is to scrape off the crust with a palette-knife, as carefully as possible, and the remaining icing you may use up for glazing inferior pastry. Don't keep As a rule, keep your icing for storing in a cool place, away from icing in the dust and the sunbeams, and, of course, out of the bakehouse. In bakehouse, summer you must wet the icing cloth several times a day; in winter once a day will be sufficient. The bakehouse, as just stated, should never be selected as a place for storing piping icing, and this for various reasons. Firstly, the heat is much too great, and would necessitate a perpetual and constant damping of the cloth. There is, besides, in every bakehouse an unavoidable circu- lation of flour in the air, which is fatal to icings, and must be guarded against. The chance of your icing coming into contact with flour, when stored in the bakehouse, is too great to be risked. There is, moreover, a still more weighty reason for not storing icings in the bakehouse, which is that there may be other hands about besides yourself, who are ignorant of the manner to deal with and treat icings. Suppose that you have been piping to-day, and wiU require the icing again to-morrow—the oftener it is required the better for