ALL ABOUT PIPING. 36 [chap CHAPTER VII. PIPING. Position of Any good piper ought to be able to pipe sitting as well as stand- the piper, ing. My rule is, in order that the young piper's body and hands may have a little more rest, to take the first few lessons sitting; later on he gets accustomed to piping in a standing position. Nothing I have often been asked whether there is any substitute for better to icing for the beginner to pipe with for practice. I may say that practice there is nothing better or cheaper for training purposes than sugar with than icing itself. sugar icing. You may, as we shall see later on, also pipe with fat or drip ping. Well, do so if you like and think it less expensive, but it does not answer the purpose so well. Nothing is better than sugar icing for experimenting, if you do not let it get too dry—you may if you like take the piped icing back and mix it up again with the other icing, and employ for use once more. Materials Piping for experimenting may be done on almost anything, a for practice, piece of board, cardboard, a tin, plate, &c. A square piece of tin will, I think, be best and cleanest to begin with. The young piper might now, in order to get accustomed to my bag, try, firstly, with straight lines. Straight and parallel running lines are the easiest. Start with these, and continue until some progress is made. Tubes Nos. 20 to 29, may be applied for this purpose. The lines ought to have a length of about twelve inches, and should appear unbroken. The right hand, with the bag, must be raised after placing the tube in position about one or two inches above the object being piped upon. In making straight lines, it is advisable to keep the arm free. Should the piper experience any difficulty in making clear straight lines, I should advise him to use a knife, or any other hard sharp instrument and a ruler, thus making a few straight lines upon the tin, or board, to follow in piping with the bag. No sugar must be previously outside the tube, and no pressure must be applied on the bag before the tube is brought in con- nection with the object to be piped upon. Any sugar outside the tube before this point is a mistake, hindrance; it causes a clumsy