ALL ABOUT PIPING. vi. hands of the British and Foreign Confectioner^ June, 1890. While any other " gentleman " would blush after having received such criticism, " Confectioner" Wells continued advertising his literary work in its very columns. Of course he never heard of this criticism. Comment is unnecessary. " Ornamental Confectionery.*—This little book has reached us for review, and gladly as we should welcome any book that could be accepted as a standard, or even a primer, we fear that this will not do much to fill the void. As we read the book we seem to see before us all the hard, stiff ways of our apprenticeship days, and we question very much whether even a generation ago this little book could have been said to be ' quite up to date.' To-day is is hopelessly ' way back.' Again, even were the subject matter up to date, which it is not, the method of treatment is horribly loose. If an architect were instructing his pupils, and were to say, ' Take some bricks and mortar and build a house ; decorate it with stone copings, which you have previously moulded to suit your taste or the pocket of your pattern ; put on a roof of slate—and collect the money,' well, we don't think the pupils would learn much. Now look at this, which is a fair sample of the instructions in this book, and see where is the difference :— ' To Oriiaine?it Hanis.^—Cut and pare a boiled ham neatly, particularly at the shank ; model the devices for it, and put the ham into cold spring water until the butter is properly stiff; then take the ham out and lay it on a board. Smooth and finish your work. The devices may be set on each side or in the front of the ham (which is the front ?). You may then place round the ham single and double loops in butter, forced through a squirt (shades of our youth, a squirt I), or you may place any ornament you please on the top, such as flowers, or the crest and arms of the family for whom the work is intended. Now, with all deference to Mr. Wells, we do not think this is satis- factory. If information is given at all, then it should be given so plainly that it can be readily understood b)^ those who do not know. Those who do know do not need the instructions at all." It is to be regretted that, however little value a book may have, there are always some Editors to be found who recommend it to their readers, and this for sake of not losing a small material benefit. HERR WILLY. London^ October^ i8gi. * "Ornamental Confectionery," by Robert Wells. Published by Crosby, Lock wood, and wSon, 5s.