All About Fipifig. ii. THE OLD-ESTABLISHED TRADE JOURNAL FOR BAKERS AND CONFECTIONERS. ^^The British and Foreigk Confectioner, Baker and Restauranteur." 188, STRAND, LONDON, W.C. " THE BRITISH AND FOREIGN CONFECTIONER " was established in 1877, and from that date it has endeavoured to earnestly advocate all move- ments for the advancement and welfare of the Bakery and Confectionery Trade, -of which it is the recognised Scientific Organ. Advertisers in Europe and America will find it the best medium for bringing their Machinery, Specialities, Inventions and Productions before the whole Trade throughout the world. ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION.—"The British and Foreign Con- fectioner" is published on the First of eveiy mo7ith at 188, Strand, London, W.C, and copies may be ordered through any Newsagent, or will be sent ■direct from the Office at the following rate of subscription: United Kingdom, Europe, Canada and United States, 6s. Post Free. Australia, South Africa, India, and China, 10s. 6d. Post Free. Post Office Orders, Postal Notes, or Cheques, are to be made payable to Walter Williams, to whom all business correspondence should be addressed. Subscriptions may commence with any month. The following letters, from amongst many, tell of its worth : "January 14th, 1889. " Dear Sir,—I am very pleased to hear of the increasing success of "The British and Foreign Confectioner." I never open its pages without finding either a receipt of value, or Information which one can turn into money.—Yours very truly, W. Neave Hill, 60, Bishops- gate Street Within, London, E,C." " August 6, 1890. " Dear Sir,—It affords us much pleasure in stating that our clients, Messrs. Firton and Son, are extremely well pleased at the results of their advertisements of Germ Bread (Smith's Patent) in your Journal. We may also add, that in our own experience, which is a pretty wide one, we have come across no trade journal more worthy the attention of advertisers.—Yours faithfully, Emmison Bros., Advertising Contractors, Manchester." ^ " December 6, 188B. " Dear Sir,—It would be difficult to over-estimate the advantages to the Baking and Confectionery Trades conferred by ' The British and Foreign Confectioner' in the introduc- tion of better systems of manufacture, improved machinery, ovens, and other appliances, and in generally advancing the interests of these important industries. As an advertising medium we believe it reaches all the best firms, both at home and abroad, and it is frequently men- tioned by our customers in all parts of the English-speaking world.—Yours faithfully, Joseph Baker and Sons, 58, City Road, London, E.C." "July 8,1890. " Dear Sir,—We attribute a very considerable portion of the large demand that now •exists for our Concentrated Fruit Essences and Guaranteed Essential Oils to the fact that for the past eight years we have advertised steadily and prominently in 'The British and Foreign Confectioner.' We have found it an excellent medium in every respect, and we most certainly shall continue our advertisements so long as the journal is conducted upon the same excellent lines that at pres nt characterises it. We have to thank you personally for the uniform courtesy you have always shown us.—Yours truly, Stevenson and Howell, Standard Works, 95a, Southwark Street, London, S.E." "July 15, 1890. " Dear Sir,—As an advertiser in your journal, I am highly satisfied with the results. I have advertised my Flour Testing Apparatus and my patented Steam Generator in ' The British and Foreign Confectioner, and the responses have been such as to justifj^ me in saying that your journal is the best medium for reaching the cream of the baking and ■confectionery trades.—Yours faithfully, W. A. Thoms, Alyth, Scotland." N.B.-THE ONLY OFFICE IS 188, STRAND, LONDON, W.C