[chap. ALL ABOUT PIPING. Imitators of Imitations of anything are always the most sincerest proof of my tubes, its value ; but I beg to state that nobody in the United Kingdom, under any circumstances whatever, are authorised to sell " Herr jjo Willy's" tubes. All these offers, they may come from wherever travellers ^^ley like, are nothing but most impudent imitations, and have to are be refused at any rate, employed. No tube is genuine unless it bears my name, " Herr Willy," and its number. See Plate ii. As already said a good thing makes its own way. There is one request I wish to make, which is that every reader who sees these lines will kindly inform me of any tubes being offered to hirn, pretending to be mine, in order that I may stop such shame- less infringements and take proceedings. I shall be most happy to compensate any person who may give me such information. My tubes, piping paper, and style of piping are now employed all over the world at every practical confectioners. Plates 12 and 13 give the tubes mouth, whilst Plate 11 gives the general shape of any of my tubes. Let me add that, besides the shape of the tube, a great deal depends upon the manner in which the mouth of the tube is cut. No tube leaves my house which is not examined as to its soundness. For information about sets of tubes, assortments, ask for my Price List, which gives all the particulars, and is supplied gratis. No single tubes can be sold unless to those already working with my tubes. The metal Many spurious dealers in tubes making a pretence, of course, tubes to be some knowledge of the question, say that their tubes are made of. superior to those sold by Herr Willy, as they are made of better metal; with regard to which I must answer that good tubes can be made from various metals : brass, electro-silver, real silver, tin, —even of gold, if you like. With the exception of the tin ones, good tubes can be made from any of the other metals, but let me say that the shape of the tube and its mouth are the principal points, not the metal. What these bakers' outfitters say about their tubes is all nonsense, and must admit their lamentable ignorance of this subject. They have no more idea of what con- stitutes a good tube than the man in the moon. Good tubes Although all my tubes are made of brass, I freely admit that may be good tubes made from other metals. I do not in made of '^^Y "^ish to give you to understand that they ifiust necessarily several made of brass. But if these outfitters say that their tubes are metals. better and last longer, I shall answer that I still have tubes in use (all my tubes are brass) which I purchased in 1863, and I think I use them more than any confectioner m the world. This, I think, speaks sufficient.