I.] ICING IN GENERAL. 9 the piper. You put the well-covered basin on a certain shelf, and go away to attend to other business, but you must depend upon several other hands at the bakehouse. Some young mischievous person, in your absence, instead of cleaning the bakehouse, &c., spies the basin on the shelf, and must, of course, examine it to see what it contains; so, taking off the cloth and tasting is the next thing, and the inevitable consequence is, that the party in question runs away leaving the basin uncovered. The next day, having a little time to spare, and being anxious to save a minute or two, you depend upon the icing you left behind yesterday being in good condition for your piping work to-day, but meet with a cruel mortification when, on taking it down, you find a crust on the top, and the icing in consequence unfit for use any more. Who was it ? Nobody ! This is an instance which frequently occurs, and which should influence you to keep icing—and, as we shall see later, everything connected with piping—altogether out of the bakehouse. If you want to keep piping paper, colours, tubes, &c., for long, place them apart. How long will icing keep ? This is a question put before How long one very frequently. I can't give you an exact answer to will icing this question, but I know of no instance in which I found the last? icing too old. Icing will stick to you as long as you stick to icing. I have sometimes had basins of icings from five to six weeks, and longer, and they were in perfect condition. When you return to a basin of icing of some age, but which has been properly attended to since the time of manufacture, it is found always that the icing has lost some of its strength—it is what we call " returned," and this is in proportion with the length of time the icing is let rest—the longer this time, the more it has returned. In this case, all you have to do is to add a spoonful of sugar and a few drops of acetic acid, and beat up again as usu«al. When making icing, both for glazing and piping, and having Stale whites some stale whites on hand—in perfect condition, and free from of eggs or yolk—you may prefer them to fresh whites. The icing will come solution of to a point quicker, and look smoother. Never mind a slight of eggs smell, which disappears soon after being mixed with sugar. It is always to the same with stale solution of condensed whites of eggs. In be preferred winter I keep several bottles of this solution outside the window, for icings, and it is not injured in any way. Let me add here that stale whites always produce the nicest macrones and the finest snow. Stale whites, in the hands of an experienced confectioner, are always preferred to fresh ones for any purposes of confectionery where whites are required.