ALL ABOUT PLPLNG. [chap. lO CHAPTER II. ICING SUGAR, For bride- For bride-cakes only the very best qualities of icing sugar should cakes only be used, whilst for glazing pastry an inferior quality answers the use best purpose equally well. qualities. In starting a fresh tin of sugar for icing or piping work, you must always sift it, because you never know how many small granulated particles of sugar or anything else may be in such a tin, and, as already stated in the question of straining condensed whites, as in the case of McGhie's icing powder, every grain of indissoluble substance will later cost you a bag. Always sift Your icing sugar purveyor may have the best intention of supply- the icing ing you with the very best article, but you must not forget that he sugar first, has to depend upon other people, who are not over particular in turning out a first-class product. As a rule, then, let sugar be sifted at least once; sift it on opening a new tin, and then sift all the lot. Clean sieve The sieve required need not have a very fine mesh, nor is a for sifting hair sieve necessary. A wire sieve with a mesh like that of a icing sugar, flour wire sieve is quite suitable. For sifting icing sugar it is best to have a sieve specially for this operation, and after use bring it out of the bakehouse if you have no other place for sifting icing sugar. But as most confectioners only work on a small scale, and are not favoured with orders for bride-cakes every day, they do not keep all the appliances necessary for piping, &c., arranged in first-class style ; to such people who are not in possession of a special sieve I may say that any other sieve will answer the purpose, provided that it is clean and has no defective meshes. If it is a flour-sieve it must first be washed and dried. Simply brushing it is insufficient, as fiour is far too dangerous for icing. When the operation of sifting the icing sugar has to be done in the bakehouse, not having any more convenient place for the piping work, the bakehouse table must be well washed and dried before beginning, and then I recommend you to first put sheets of good packing paper on the table. When icing sugar is sifted directly on the table it cannot be depended on for piping work. If later you find there is something wrong with the icing, then you must reflect as to whether you have followed my directions.