VIII.] COLOURS FOR PIPING PURPOSES. 45 One word more with regard to this, which may suit laundry work, blueing cuffs and collars, but will not do for piping work, When you scrape off a bit for use, you cannot prevent some more or less larger bits dropping into the icing. In glazing, this may be of little harm; but when piping with a fine tube every hard grain of this kind costs you a bag. Remember this. At the present day we have colours of every description to meet all our wants. I only speak of harmless colours. The first man manufacturing confectionery colours was Breton, of Paris. This production of his was demanded by all the first class businesses all over the world. Breton was the inventor of paste colours also; but although this firm still exists at Paris, with unblemished reputation, it seems to me that it is now less known than about half a century ago ; this is due to the fact that we can now get anywhere, I will say at any civilised country, not only paste colours of the same quality and perfection as Breton (which was the name given to his colours,) but also much cheaper. With five colours in the house (pink, yellow, blue, brown, green), a cook or confectioner can do any colouring that may be required, sugar-boilers and jam and pickle makers may require one or two additional colours. For an orange-like colour mix pink and yellow; for violet mix pink with blue; for chamois yellow and brown (both very light); for lilac very pale blue and pink. If you have not got green, you can make it yourself by mixing yellow and blue. For other tints you may mix more than two colours together. Now, with regard to piping cakes with colours, let me say that too much colour is out of place on anything to be eaten. Nobody likes to eat a lot of colour. Some persons will not eat anything artificially coloured. As we can't do entirely without them, let us use them in very small quantities, but of the best quality obtainable. In applying colours, the cake is first piped in white, then add a little pink, or blue, or yellow, or two different colours if you like, in a very small quantity. When only a single cake is to be piped, you may make the colour bag as small as possible and without applying a tube. For brown colourations several substances are employed, black jack, dissolved cacao, root brown ; each colour has its own pecu- liar advantages. But in order to pipe with it, there is a first-class paste colour called chesnut-brown or chocolate-brown, made from a certain brown-root on the market, and this product will please the highest taste on brown. Another new style in brown piping may be done with dissolved rock cocoa mixed with white syrup. Any better kind of cocoa, from which cocoa-butter has not been extracted previously by the Reckitt's blue. Breton. Composi- tion of colours. As little colour as possible on cakes.