[chap. ALL ABOUT PIPING. 14 the glazed cake from the rotation stand, thus making room for the next cake going to be glazed. Cakes Any cake glazed directly on the stand (without any intervening glazed board) must not be moved after glazing, but must be left on the directly on stand until piped and quite dry, ready to be sent out. stand must The moving of an unfinished or insufficiently dried cake is not be easily attended by some damage on the part of the piping, moved until Plate 3, No. I., shows a wooden rotation stand, the largest board finished, on the top, and No, III. underneath the same board occupied by a cake going to be piped. Plate 4, 11. & IV., gives the rotation stand with the smaller part on top, and also its occupation by a cake. Either of these methods is correct. There is no harm whatever in the cake going to be glazed or piped being a few inches larger than the rotation stand. Birthday As a rule, birthday cakes, unless specially ordered thus, should cakes not to not be glazed on the outside, only on top. For this work be glazed the rotation stand is not absolutely necessary, it can be per- on sides, formed easily with the cake flat on the left hand, or on the table. However, either method will answer. I shall remark here that I am not in favour of cutting any birthday cake level, which some may fancy will prevent the icing from running down. Avoid putting an excessive amount on top, and it will not run down. A good rich cake, with nicely-formed crevices or cracks on the top, recommends itself and also the maker. You may finish the cakes outside either with those printed bands, which are becoming more and more popular, or with coloured tis- sue paper (frills). Thickness Keep icing (we deal, of course, only with whites icing) for both of icing glazing and piping of the same stiffness and consistency. Don't for glazing glaze any bride-cake with an icing that is still running. If not cakes. thoroughly experienced with glazing, you will find such an icing —one that is not sufficiently stiff—troublesome and inconvenient beyond expectation; and how shall piping be possible when the glazing of the outer side of a bride-cake is all lumpy ? Any icing outside the bride-cake, after having finished glazing, must be firm and stand erect like mortar on a wall, and not running down whatever is allo-wed to be visible. Unless your glazing is quite stiff, you cannot do this work as smart as required. There is no Some time ago I received an application from a Yorkshire machine for lady, asking me to forward her a machine for glazing bride-cakes, glazing of which she had heard. What a wag her adviser must have cakes. been ! As a matter of course, I wrote by return saying there was no such machine in use. The stock of machinery used in this operation consists of a knife and a rotation stand. Other persons apphed to me for an explanation of the method of glazing a cake with a hot knife (as they were advised) ! I should like to know