ALL ABOUT PIPLNG, [CHAP 56 CHAPTER X. PATTERNS: HOW TO MAKE THEM, AND TRANSFER If you wish to trim the centre of any cake's surface with the piping bag, the simplest method is the circular style. A round Take a true round cutter and put it on the cake's centre; be pattern in sure that it is the centre exactly. The difference of a hair's cake's breadth will not cause any deformation in the surface, but half-an- centre. inch more or less on one side will be double the difference at the opposite. An accurate eye can discover the cake's central point easily enough. My pupils never are allowed to use compass or measure ; these are not at all necessary for the piper. The central circle on the cake is made as follows : The cutter is laid on the cake, which is then marked with the piper's knife, or scissors, or a pin, or by means of a pencil; or you may mark it by making points round the cutter with the icing bag—either way is right. Now take the cutter off and fill out the circle by making parallel lines, say about six or eight lines in the space of an inch. Having done this, go once more over by crossing the newly-made lines. In filling out any circle in the way suggested, make the middle fine first, which must divide the circle into two equal parts. Hav- ing filled out the circle by lines drawn crossways, you may, if you like, go over once more in the same manner; every additional top line must be exactly over the line below along which it runs. This done, finish the circle with a pearl border with the same tube (perhaps Nos. 28 or 29). If the size of the cake admits, a little more work may be applied round the circle. The Star.—Another nice-looking, handsome, and easily con- structed central design is the star. See illustration 20. The star. ^om may make a star composed of six, or eight, or more fields ; this is merely a matter of taste. I, for my part, prefer the six- cornered star to any other. In order to get a star pattern you firstly must cut out a proper round piece of paper; any paper pattern should be made of a