[chap. ALL ABOUT PIPING. Greeiu Colours chocolate manufacturer, may be put either on a flat tin or in a small cup, and warmed and gently melted, without burning it by too much heat, and then mixed with white syrup. Such syrup ought to be kept in readiness in the hands of a practical piper. To the dis- solved warmed cocoa you add by tea spoon portions some of the syrup, always mixing both ingredients until the cocoa appears of a thickness similar to piping icing. Any such chocolate icing dissolved too thin may be rectified by the addition of a pinch of icing sugar in powder. The whole process must be done in a warm room, not far from an oven or fire. Chocolate icing made thus can't be kept ready in stock, but must be made as required. Unless in very experienced hands it will not be fit for use after a day or two. Most of the greens found in the kitchen and the bakehouse are the products of condensed spinach. There are several other kinds of green quite harmless, but they will not bear comparison with spinach greens for beauty and excellence. As previously stated, blue and yellow mixed will give a nice green as well. Pink and green match excellently on any cake, for example, a wreath of green leaves and pink roses, and also the pipmg on the top's outer circle of the cake will always appear more tasteful when finished with a little pink. A golden legend on a pink ground, finished in the same way which form previously, looks admirable. a good match. How to keep colours. Another very handsome assemblage of colours is blue, silver, and white; suggested by the blue sky, silver moon, and white clouds of the vault of the heavens. Tasteful combinations with colours on a cake, either in the piping or decoration, or in both, cannot be learned by description; your own taste must be the guide. The piper engaged on a birthday cake, or any cake on which coloured icing is to be applied, may make his colour bag as small as posssble, and he must not think it an economy, before throwing the remainder of the colour bag away, to simply pipe all the bag's contents over and over the cake. Look at some Metropolitan and West End houses, the proprietors of which fancy themselves to be tip-top in their line, but what they show and exhibit would make an elephant turn up his nose. I shall also add that for colouring jellies, blanc-manges, fruit, &c., liquid colour is the best for colouring purposes. In order to preserve a paste-colour, so that it may be used at any moment, all that you have to do is to keep it out of the bake- house. Firstly, it is too warm there; secondly, some people do not appreciate what a good colour is, and how to deal with it; thirdly, it may easily be lost in a bakehouse—therefore, keep these colours in your cupboard.