ALL ABOUT PIPING. [chap. 52 The kind of buds, may be applied as decoration on bride-cakes. They are in flowers, endless variety on the market, and suitable ornaments of this blossoms, kind may now be obtained easily at any ornamental confectioner's* buds, &c., as Every year brings new patterns, artful imitations, and fancy flowers used on in a wonderful perfection; but orange blossoms, snowdrops,, bride-cakes, camelias, water and other lilies, azaleas, daisies, stephanotis, white roses, &c., as known by everybody, have still the preference. If the cake be of more than one tier, then the application of some sprays hanging down the sides will appear effectual. You may apply more, but only one kind of spray on a cake. Finishing off a bride-cake's outer side occasionally with a silver Silver band is a nice change, as already referred to on another bands. P^g^? \Am^ and labour saving too. Piping of the cake's outer side in a fine style is difficult and more troublesome than the piping done on a horizontal surface. Will the piper use a silver band of the breadth or width as the cake's outer circle itself, or will he use a smaller one, thus filling out the space left open below and above with piping or by some white frills ? He may choose as he likes—every taste has a right to be carried into effect. Another way of finishing the cake's outer side is with a wreath. The wreath. The fastenmg of the ends together may be done, I think, best with needle and cotton; a few stitches will do. When doing it an assistant must keep the wreath as close and as tight to the cake as possible. Special precaution has to be taken as to the icing being of Use the P^^^^^^t stiffness when piping vertical, that means outside a cake, stiffest icing uiakes a good impression when the cake's lower part, that which on outside would come nearest the board, is piped with a strong big tube, all piping. more as icing here must be faultless. Icing dropping so low as to be in contact with the board or the rotation stand will later, on the cake going to be moved for sending-out, break invariably, and will on its breaking off injure all the cake's lower part round. It may be recalled that a cake, after piping is finished, may not be moved without suffering great injury in the piping ; the cake has to rest on its board, &c., from the beginning of the first glazing until the piping is of an entirely dry, hard state. Without regard to the stiff icing I use, I take the precaution of starting piping at the outer side of the cake about one-third an inch off the bottom so that, even when any icing is applied in thick quantities, I have the guarantee of its sinking down to the bottom to be impossible. Birthday, Birthday and Christmas cakes are, as a rule, glazed only once, &c. cakes. ^^P ? sides being embroidered either by some fancy printed bands or of some tissue paper (frills). The birthday &c., cake, being a good and rich one, will be- come raised at the centre, and will burst on the top in baking. I