til] PIPING. 41 Many gentlemen and ladies have applied to me to learn how Making to make roses. Rose-making is difficult, and the piper, before roses, starting such work, is required to be master over the bag. I do not undertake to promise to make any pupil a rose-maker. Cer- tainly pupils in second course all get shown how they to be made. It will cost the rose-maker very many trials, and his patience will sometimes be sorely tried, but there is no other method. I had to go through this myself, and have thrown the bag meantime into the corner. I advise the beginner not to practice rose-making longer than fifteen or twenty minutes at a time, then let him put the bag aside and continue some other work, and repeat practising on another occasion. This icing must be extra stiff, and may be kept a little thicker Rose icing, than generally used. On this subject, Plate 16, you will find a certain nail where roses have to be piped upon. This nail's head must be greased with a very small quantity of butter or fat before piping, so small as to be almost imperceptible. If greased too much the roses •drop off too easily. After having been greased, all the nails are placed in a flat tin, or box, filled with sugar, or anything else, that they may be kept standing in. All the nails in the central piece of a rose should be piped first with a star tube. Very small roses may be made and finished at one operation. Larger sizes have to be taken in hand two, three, and even four times before they are finished. The quantity of sugar employed in big roses is too great to allow of its being finished at once; the sugar must be let dry before going over it again ; ten to fifteen minutes in a warm room suffices. Roses, if not made in summer, require a heated room for their mannfac- ture. The top illustration of Plate 17 shows four roses, the central piece of piping being already done with a smaller star tube. The five other roses are done over a second time for the outer leaves; one of them is going to be made. The middle illustration, Plate 17 B, shows the continuation and finishing ofthe roses by making the lower leaves. The kind of flowers given in lower illustration C is done on the same nails, but with different tubes (Nos. 73 to 84.) The trick of making flowers or roses of any kind lies in the turning of the nail with thumb and second finger of left hand. It cannot be taught by description, a piper must learn it by practice. A good rose maker gives the nail two to two-and-a-half rota- tions without interruption ; this is the principle. Many confectioners get puzzled when they see piping with two Two colours colours, and yet it is simple enough. You colour a little icing in the bag. pink or blue, as you choose, and put it with a fine knife (piper's