27 FIRING TUBES. v.] CHAPTER V. PIPING TUBES, The remarkably short time devoted to the making of pastry or preparation of any species of aliment I may perhaps add, is one of the peculiarities of the English people. It is just the same with kitchen work. In both instances this is made evident when a comparison is made with this work as done on the Continent. On the Continent, piping and decorating are commenced early in the morning and finished at the end of the day. Confectionery abroad is required more fancifully got up. Travelling is now made more convenient and rapid every year, it being possible to pass from the English coast to the Con- tinent in a few hours. The British traveller who has availed him- self of these facilities, on returning home, inquires amongst his fellow countrymen for the same novelties which he saw and tasted abroad. The demand for fancy work and such pastry becomes greater every year, and the British confectioner cannot and does not close his eyes to this fact. Now this kind of fancy work can be done much more easily when you have the requisite tools and instruments. Modern in- struments, which may be easily employed in practice, are the first of all your needs. As regards piping and ornamenting, and other work which enters into the tube question, I was thunderstruck at seeing the style of work and instruments employed in this country. Let me reproduce a passage contained in my prospectus. More than twenty years ago, when, in order to gain experience in the business, I was travelling and working in Germany, Austria, France, Russia, Switzerland, &c., I made special study of the method of piping, and of the instruments needed, so I may be considered a fair judge on this question, and competent to give an opinion. On coming to England, about ten years ago, I was surprised at the low style of piping and designing generally of the English confectioner; the piping tubes in use, and the way in which he pursues this beautiful art. The principal cause of that great imperfection lies in the fact that they have not the proper instruments to do their work with;