44 [chap. ALL ABOUT PIPING, CHAPTER VIII. COLOURS FOR PIPING PURPOSES, For birthday, Christmas, New Year's or any other cakes, except bride-cakes, a little colour is reqired for piping; also, as stated in another chapter, for blueing icings, to bring the white- ness into relief. This does not mean to say that the cake must be glazed with coloured icings (although you may do so if you choose occasionally, for the sake of a change); a little coloured piping may be added on any of the above cakes, and any colour (except black) is allowed to be used. For piping purposes there is no other colour to be applied but paste colour. Any icing, after being coloured, must be of the same con- sistency and stiffness as in its original white condition. The British confectioner, requiring a little colour for a birthday, &c., cake, in nine cases out of ten, sends to the nearest druggist or grocer for a bottle of cochineal or carmine as it is called; this carmine, a liquid substance, appears differently, red, blue, or violet. To give a little icing a sufficient colouration, it requires one or two teaspoons of this stuff! Such a large quantity will, of course, make the best icing run, and consequently spoils it, so as to render it unfit for use in piping. No icing coloured with this substance can be again stiffened for piping. Any liquid colour, then, is altogether out of the question, and we can easily do without it, having more suitable material on hand. Paste- In former years many confectioners, in order to have a red colour only paste colour, employed dry carmine, dissolving it in liquid to be used, ammonia, adding a few drops of acetic acid. This was the old style, and it was the only way to get a good paste colour, which did not reduce a stiff icing. Carmine in a dry pulverised state was also and is still here and there applied, but will never be equal to paste colour. Yellow and orange-coloured carmine being dissolved the same as other carmine. For blue there was principally Reckitt's blue in question. We must have blue in a cheaper and better form for piping purposes, viz., in paste.