7 ICING IN GENERAL. If, after having observed the cleanliness in every respect as prescribed, and yet your icing—in spite of good and quick beat- ing up—appears not to have acquired the. necessary stiffness, a few more drops of acetic acid may be added. Be careful not to use too much acetic acid, as the more you Don't use use the sourer the icing will become, perhaps as sour as acid drops, too much which may not be considered to be an improvement on the acetic acid, bride-cake, besides the effect of an excess of acetic acid is to make the icing become insufficiently hard. Acetic acid alone is in- sufficient, and does not make the icing stiff; it requires beating up—hard beating—I think you call it " elbow grease." When the icing has come to a point, as shown in my illustra- Always tion, it has to be covered with a damp cloth. This cloth need cover the not be new, but it must be a clean one at any rate. Put it in icing, clean cold water and let it get thoroughly saturated. Wring it out until you are sure that no drop of water will separate and come in contact with the icing. To prevent the cloth from touching the icing, it is good to lay a piece of wood or wire across the basin, and then cover the icing. You must see that your icing is entirely and constantly covered. It is astonishing how frequently people are led into error by No flavour so-called would-be confectioners, individuals who require a little in icing, more experience in their trade before having the audacity and brazen-facedness to mislead others through their lamentable ignorance. I heard this several times, and once, when called upon to finish a gigantic cake for Christmas (4500 lbs. in weight), I experienced this myself, when beating up icing, without any visible result, I" learned, on making enquiries from the manager, that the icing had been flavoured with lemon oil! Of course I am speaking about icing for piping purposes, and the artist who gave orders for flavouring the icing was the fore- man, who told me that he always did so. If any flavouring could be brought into question by whites Glazing, icing, it only could be pulverized vanilla^ and it can be used for glazing any kind of pastry, w^hich gives them increased agree- ableness. But as the whiteness of a bride's-cake should be as brilliant as possible, vanilla, which would decrease the brightness of the colour, cannot be employed, so there is no flavour at all to be applied for whites icing. The subject of flavours and flavouring does not come within Lemon oil. the scope of our work in this particular place ; although I should very much like to do so, I merely shall remark, that the only flavouring which I find employed by English confectioners is lemon oil, and nothing but lemon oil, and in very improper pro- portions. The same flavour (lemon oil) does not suit everything and everybody ; many persons have a particular dislike to lemon