VI.] 33 TALENT FOR PIPING. CHAPTER VI. TALENT FOR PIPLNG. What a simple word it is ! Talent! and yet how much may be said about it! Very many people have a certain talent for one thing or another, and if it be duly watched, encouraged, and pro- moted in youthful days by parents or guardians it may be a bless- ing later in life. Many a talent is left unnoticed, and consequently lost. This is a fact—talent is born, and cannot be acquired ; but it is also a fact that anyone favoured by nature with some decided talent for anything is frequently surprisingly unqualified for some other branch, and exceedingly awkward. The reason why we have not the amount of first-class pipers as required now amongst British confectioners, is, in my opinion, not on account of a want of talent. That the British confectioner is as clever at piping as his brother confectioner on the Continent is a fact beyond dispute, and of which I have had sufficient opportunity of convincing my- self. The principal cause of the British confectioner being con- sidered to be backward with regard to piping as compared with his brother confectioner on the Continent, lies in the old-fashioned, clumsy tools that are supplied by the baker's outfitter England need not go abroad for pipers. The English can do this work as well as foreigners. If, further, the British confectioner might adopt the system of a general apprenticeship, also if British confectioners' assistants were a little more fond of travelling for the sake of improving thus, with their own eyes, studying the systems of foreign confectionery, it would do them a great deal of good. In order to teach others how to pipe it is not sufficient to be a good piper oneself. If you are unable to understand how to impart your knowledge to another your education will be of very little value. Take a hundred persons doing the same technical work, and you will find them one hundred times different. The one picks up and soon understands what another cannot comprehend, although he may be talented and distinguished in other matters remarkably. D