IX.] ORNAMENTS, 51 if you like, both kinds on one and the same cake. Also sugar, or artificial flowers, or both kinds if you wish—either way is right, provided things are applied tastefully. Pattern i of the illustration indicates how to make a wreath. Ordering one made of artificial flowers costs several shillings. Lay on leaves and roses and continue as you see it started, and fasten each leaf and rose with the icing bag. Fig. 4, the same plate, indicates a wreath started on its top part with very small leaves and roses, and proceeds by going downward, with their respective sizes increasing and getting larger, its finish at the wreath's middle would be with a big rose. Figs. 2 and 3 are intended to be put direct in the cake's centre. It is not good taste to apply leaves and roses just as flat as they are by simply plastering them on the cake with icing, like a mason might do with mortar. Flowers and leaves always make the best impression by their being applied in a natural position, that is hanging. For doing so, fasten the leaves one end only with sugar, (on the end where the stalk may be presumed,) the leaves' other part has to be directed in a slightly bent upward direction. Designs for filling out open spaces on the cake's top by way of leaves and roses are as endless as designs in piping, and everybody has a right to his own taste. Don't overcrowd the cake with ornaments, too much is an insult to the eyes. The trouble tak-^n in piping a fine design must not be afterwards made worthless by its getting covered with ornaments. Ornaments must be placed where there is no piping, even some empty space left between the piping and the ornaments may be regarded as tasteful, but the application of ornaments at the cake's outer side—with the only exception of perhaps a wreath— is to be abandoned. I cannot but think that something may be done properly and tastefully in this connection. It is astonishing, and must surprise many country confec- tioners on their coming to the Metropolis to notice at many West-end businesses things exposed, I mean cakes piped and ornamented, in a way that is positively shocking, and in one word, disgusting; and this in businesses the proprietors of which pretend to be tip-top in their Hne, and a pattern to others. Sometimes one may be inclined to fancy an elephant having more taste to dis- play at this kind of work. Without exaggeration I must say that provincial towns, I mean confectioners in provincial towns, make a finer show than London businesses. On requiring more designs regarding the application of orna- ments, I must refer you to my book of designs. Any kind of white or very dainty-coloured flowers, blossoms, E 2 Apply leaves and roses in a most natural position. Ornaments must not cover the piping.