X.] PATTERNS, 59 The piping inside the fields must be white. You may fill the star's fields out in one of the two ways as shown by plate, or you may, if you like, make both kinds in the same cake, the third field like the first and the fourth like the second ; either way is right. Similar patterns cut out from a round piece of paper may be B and C of Plate 22. Any piper, because it is so easy, will soon find out other ways Different of cutting similar patterns and working them out. patterns cut The cutting out and transferring on a cake of any pattern run- out of paper, ning only in staight lines in is done by simply marking the corners of the pattern with a point made with the bag, then joining them with straight lines of icing. It is a little more difficult in the case of undulating and curved lines. To follow any pattern exactly in a curved line it is not sufficient on its transference to the cake to mark only the edges ot the different lines. In this case the piper has to follow the different curves by Patterns closer points, sufficient—after having removed the pattern—to running in retain a true copy of the pattern itself. curved Make all points as small as possible; later on, on communi- lines, eating them, when making the frame, they must not be visible. If the piper, in order to vary designs, is inclined, to make any Oval central patterns in an oval or oblong shape, he may take a piece patterns, of stout paper, and after having it four-folded may cut out anything he likes in an oblong style; each pattern is right. As each cut of the scissors repeats the same cut throughout the pattern no mistakes can be made; it must turn out accurately and symmetrical. Designs D, E, F, on Plate 22 will give you a sufficient illustra- tion to lead you to make some more patterns. Any of these designs, after having been filled out in a style alluded to previously, or by your own combination, may be finished with a few leaves and a little rose in the centre. I don't say you 7nust do so, I merely suggest you may do so if you like, but m this case avail yourself of the very smallest leaves possible to be obtained, because, making a pattern with great care and then covering it over after is simply nonsense. I will not reject it as a medium to be applied here and there Silver for the partial decoration of a bride-cake, but certainly it may not dragee, be bestowed unless in connection with piping. Apply it in a very moderate quantity and not as a rule. If you, for instance, are inclined to finish the twelve corners on Plate 20 by means of twelve silver pearls, you may do so, but certainly it will do as well without.