ALL ABOUT PIPING, [chap. 4 finds its way into the market, imitations soon spring up, so that one must be careful in purchasing. One of the chief impediments in the way of a more general employment of pure condensed whites by the British confectioner resides in the fact that manufacturers of this article were unable to give suitable and reliable directions for use, when introducing the same on to the market. All their instructions, in this matter, are unsatisfactory and untrustworthy, or utterly a mistake, and many confectioners, being once disappointed, put it aside for ever. I may state that it took me fully three months experimenting before I reached a satisfactory conclusion as to the proper amount of water required, and that of the sugar, and the general treatment. But, in my opinion, it is a first-class article, which ought to be introduced everywhere. Imagine what great losses you suffer both in material and time when (for example, at Christmas) in many businesses hundreds of cakes have daily to be glazed and piped and orna- mented, and the eggs in the house are bad. Of course, they were sold as fresh. Now, every confectioner knows as well as myself, that if he wants fresh eggs at Christmas, he must pay a good price and he would get no profit. At the present time profits are so small, owing to the great competition in every line, as in confectionery, which specially affects cheap Christmas cakes, and even in summer when eggs are cheap we cannot afford to use eggs for many of the cheaper class of cakes, but we make them look richer by means of a bit of egg colour. Again, bow many eggs which come in with every fresh box, are bad, broken, spoiled, or run out? and they must be paid for as though they were good. This little illustration, which contains a fact you will have to experience every year, may influence you to take my words into consideration for a moment. Many businesses during the three winter months lose a small fortune in this point. Gelatine It was, I think, a very good idea, that of Robert McGhie, of icing. Hamilton, Glasgow, to introduce to the British confectioner what he calls his icing powder. To me it was nothing new. I have known it for upwards of 20 years, and always employ it for bride- cakes or dummies for export, also for piped sweets, sugar roses, &c., and things which are to be kept for a long time, or have to undergo the effects of a long journey. Icing prepared with gelatine acquires, on drying, a hardness which cannot be compared with any other icing (whites or con- densed whites icing), and thus renders the objects to which it is applied much more resisting, in the case of shaking, turning over, or transport in general.