ORNAMENTS. 49 IX.] These kind of ornaments for finishing a bride-cake are not Small only out of fashion—if they ever were in fashion—but are only gum-paste used by those unacquainted with decoration in general. ornaments. I would like to se.e any practical confectioner able to finish a cake in a tasteful and respectable style with this kind of thing. Impossible! No practical confectioner ever has availed, or will in future avail himself of them. I will not condemn occasional applica- tions of one or the other of them here or there, for a change, and in tasteful connection with piping, but finishing a cake altogether with them must turn out tasteless, and betrays only the want of taste of the maker. Piping, that is the thing now required more and more, and everywhere, and by doing so all expenses for this kind of thing are saved. More than once I was assured that half of these ornaments in stock get lost by breakage, getting dusty, dirty, &c., so I can't see of what use they are. By filling out the cake's centre—and this either in a round or rpj^^ spray, oval or oblong shape—by means of a spray or by another flat cen- tral ornament, say, two shaking hands, &c., the ornament in ques- tion ought not to be fastened on a cake but plainly put on, as »+. ^ + every bride is inclined to save the ornament of her wedding cake rasten in memory of her day of honour. If fastened, on going to cut the cake one cannot avoid spoiling it. The finishing of a bride-cake with any other than a raised cen- tral ornament is less expensive, and may be advised to be adapted to smaller cakes, especially for the class of customer who have to calculate and consider the cake's price being half-a-crown more or less. Orders for bride-cakes, the prices of which may be one or several pounds more or less, are very scarce; many a small con- fectioner in all his life-long struggle never having a chance of such an order. So, as most bride-cakes are of a more or less smaller size, the confectioner finds himself here and there in a position to make his customer most reasonable terms, and this may be done easily, and satisfactory to both parties, and without the cake losing Cake anything whatever in its beauty, by replacing a raised central orna- finished ment with a cheaper decoration. In finishing the cake's outer outside side by means of a silver band, this will also—because the piping of a ^ with a cake outside is difficult, and takes easily one hour—allow the silver band, confectioner to make a lower charge for the cake. If time permits, it is better to put on the ornaments the day after the piping has been done. Fig. 19 shows four designs for the finishing of a cake's top with leaves and roses. Silver or satin leaves or roses may be used, or