Advertisemen ts. XV. prospectus. In accordance with the experience obtained since opening my vSchool for Piping and Ornamenting, I have made arrangements for FIRST AND SECOND COURSE OF LESSONS. Each Course consisting of Twelve Lessons, of One and a Half Hour each. Pupils start in Second Course, which comprises : Making Icing from fresh whites, from condensed whites, and also after M'Ghie's Icing Powder. The Glazing of Cakes, especially of Bride-cakes. How to make a proper Bag (paper bags in exceptional use). The application of the different (modern) Tubes, also of every other instru- ment connected with Piping and Ornamenting. The only Colours as qualified for Piping. A most thorough and all-comprising education in Piping and Writing in Sugar; also Ornaments and how to apply them. Pupils, after having finished the Second Course, may—if they like to choose so, and provided that they have been promoted as far as required in First Course—enter in FIRST COURSE. The specimens of Lessons work in this Course, and the results by finishing the same, have given to every practical Confectioner UNEXCEPTIONAL SATISFACTION. Pupils finishing Second Course may be considered accomplished as first-class Pipers and Decorators. A knowledge of making Roses, Flowers, Birds, Animals, &c., is included. Anything else not mentioned above in which Pupils may require explana- tion or demonstrations, shall receive fullest attention. Courses begin day by day. Intending Pupils are in their own interest requested to communicate with me previously to their coming to town, in order to secure their hours. Nobody may expect to be accepted unless he accedes to this rule. Pupils from London and Suburbs may select their own hours of Lessons as most convenient to their business. To those far from London and limited to time, I very much recommend the One Week's Course by daily double Lessons (three hours uninterrupted), thus beginning Monday, and finishing Saturday following. Result will give every satisfaction.