ALMOND ICING. 63 XI.] If using yolks for the binding process, then seven to eight yolks (it depends again on the size of the eggs) will do for the pound to pound receipt. Work paste quite clear, and keep it as stiff and hard as possible just to keep it together; a soft almond paste has a great chance of changing its taste for the worse, in summer already after two months. The thickness of an a mond paste to be laid on a bride-cake, depends, of course, a great deal on the cake's price. It is a pity that these large limited liability companies, which sprang into existence all over England (but I am happy to say disappeared again in a comparatively short time, because they found confectionery less lucrative than anticipated), spoiled the prices of everything and brought them down. Thus the price of i lb. of bride-cake at nearly all London con- fectioners is 1/6, while in many larger or smaller country places I find that up to the present it has been 2/6 and even 3/- per lb. Certainly when offering this cake at the first price, viz. 1/6 per lb., the confectioner must be careful not to apply too thick a layer of almond paste, the more so, as at present almonds are nearly double the price, and will most likely keep on like this for several years ; but in the case of such low charges, I should strongly recommend mixing almond paste in the proportion of one part of almonds to two of sugar. Taking it on an average, the bride-cake's almond icing may be applied in a proportion of one third of the raw-baked cake. Confectioners inclined to flavour almond icing may do so if Flavouring they choose, but it is not essentially necessary. Use either almond ■essence of rose, fleur d'orange, or a glass of whisky, or a icing little bitter almonds' essence. For myself, I think flavouring with bitter almonds (ground or in essence) to be the best. Businesses doing a great trade in bride-cakes, I would recom- p mend to make a trial of mixing the almond paste with a more J Toughly-ground almond, which I find eats better. It will not alter ^^ond the price of the ground almonds, as the grinder is simply put a bit ^^.^ This does not apply to ground almonds as used for macrones, for^i^,^ when finely-ground almonds are better. cakes In Lancashire and Yorkshire I found it customary to put the purposes bride-cake, after having got its layer of almond icing on the top, once more into the oven, thus baking the almond icing for about half-an-hour until light brown. This manipulation is, I dare say, good enough, and will pre- Baking Tent any almond-icing that was not very stiff from turning sour. almond For this purpose—I mean for putting bride-cake a second time icing, into the oven—the oven must not be hot; it will do best for this purpose in the evening. When doing this work it is good to cover