[chap. ALL ABOUT PIPING, 62 CHAPTER XI. ALMOND ICING. Although this kind of work is not necessarily to be discussed in a book on the subject of piping, I thought that it would be advisable, as I get so many applications for information on this subject, to conclude the book with some remarks about the manufacture of almond paste, which is inseparably connected with the making of bride-cakes. I have found this mixing made differently in different places. I found it fashionable to mix the paste with whole eggs in one place, and in another with yolks; some people work the paste together cold, others with boiling sugar and without any eggs. Different Again, I have met with people who divided the ingredients into mixtures, pounds, that is one pound of almonds for one pound of sugar; while in another place it is customary to mix two pounds of sugar with one pound of almonds. So you see there are many ways to Rome, any one of which is no doubt right. If you ask me which way is best of all, I may say adopt that employed in the district in which you live ; but if not sufficiently acquainted with the method of sugar boiling, let me earnestly advise you to abandon the method of making paste with boiling sugar, if you wish to avoid a lot of expensive experiments. I myself cannot see any advantage in making almond paste in the hot style; I find that it takes about one hour for properly mixing, whilst I can mix it co/d^ that is to say almonds, sugar and eggs, on the table into a stiff paste in a few minutes. Those who employ sugar boiled to the flue proof for making almond paste, may do so if they think it best. Different Taking the principal ingredients, almonds and sugar, in equal receipts, proportions, pound to pound, is, of course, a better receipt than one pound of almonds and two of sugar. But as I know that several leading and really good businesses in the Metropolis, where tons of bride-cake are made weekly, have for years had their receipt for almond paste one pound of almonds to two pounds of sugar, I leave this matter entirely to your discretion. What sugar ? Well, take castor sugar, moist sugar or Demerara, as you choose, I myself prefer the last.