ALL ABOUT PIPING. [chap. 24 folded together in a downward direction, just as in Fig. F, with two additional twists or foldings. Your bag is now finished, and you may now press the bag on into the icing, pressing your thumb all over the closed part of the bag (Fig. H). All pressure The thumb is the principal finger used in piping. Apply it of the bag as broadly as possible to cover all the bag's contents; all the is done pressure is given and regulated by the thumb only. You hold the ^ by the bag as you would a penholder, with three fingers. None of the right-hand fingers of the left hand must come into contact with your bag. As thumb. shown in Fig. H, you rest your left hand lightly on the right (behind the bag), thus keeping the piping hand in a more steady and firm position. Your bag always has to appear in a rounded shape. Under no circumstances must this rounded form be modified in any manner. If the pressure applied to the bag originated from any other side more but the right thumb, then the sugar will come out unchecked, self-willed, not as it is required, and that means that your bag is no longer in your possession. Let me repeat, never in any circumstances whatever let your bag be guided with other but the right-hand's first three fingers. The bag's icing, caused by the great pressure we apply, is always inclined to find another way out. Sugar after having piped for some time, stop for an instant, and downwards, bring the sugar in the bag downwards. The paper which is already Empty empty must not be pressed into the bag's icing, but kept outside paper the bag. outside bag. An empty bag which has not been worked too much by the beginner in piping may be refilled and again used on several occasions. Intending to do so, let me advise you not to wait for refilling the bag until every drop of icing has been piped out. Leaving a small portion of icing, and then blowing the bag up at the tube's end, and refilling it then, will be a better guarantee of its being a neat, sound bag, again fit for further use. To refill a bag, you bring the tube to your lips, keeping the opposite end of the bag closed with the other hand, and then you simply blow it up. Before again putting icing in the bag, see that all the paper inside leans together. If you do not pay attention to this and the icing comes between the folds of the paper, it soon will be in your hand and the bag is gone. Fig. D, Plate lO, shows the twisted bag. The mark 7i TI means that this end extremity of the paper must be equal in height with the bag. No fastening whatever is required for the paper's ends. I have been most careful in giving an accurate and true illustration of the way to close a bag. Now, having cut off the bag's