ALL ABOUT PIPING. [chap. 2 Wooden bowls, unless they are quite new, should not be used for icing. After having been used, and while being used, for any- other purpose with fatty substances, it is almost impossible to clean them -so as to make them fit to be employed again for icing work. Butter, fat, dripping, lard, cream, custard, milk, oil, or any other fat or flour containing substances, is very unfavourable to icing processes, and must be very carefully avoided. Any wooden bowl which has once had any of the above-mentioned substances in it cannot be again properly cleansed, so that they are out of the question for icing, and it is best not to use them at all. The spate]. What I have said about the wooden bowl is also applicable to the spatel, which is most suitable when made of wood. A wooden spatel, or spoon, such as that used in kitchens or bakehouses for any object or requirement, could not be employed without spoil- ing the icing. Wood once brought into contact with any fat or greasy substance retains it to some extent, even after the most careful washing, and on this account one must proceed with caution. A new wooden spoon ought to be used, and if not to hand may be cut in a few minutes. Any species of wood will answer the purpose. For shape see plate of icing basin. By frequent opportunity in piping, let the basin and the spatel be reserved for this purpose only. Receipt for I receive numerous applications from untrained confectioners making for a proper receipt for making icing. A suitable reply to such a icing. question is not quite free from difficulties, as much depends upon the size of the eggs used. Large eggs, naturally, contain more white than medium or small-sized eggs, and consequently require a different quantity of sugar. For my own part, I can say that during my thirty years' ex- perience I have never weighed sugar for icing, nor have I ever seen this done by any other confectioner. Measuring the quantity of the whites, or weighing the icing sugar, is quite unnecessary. When, on mixing an icing, it is found to be too thick, add two or three drops more of whites and if too thin add a spoonful of su-ar. In businesses where a lot has to be piped, condensed whites are frequently used for making icing, as it is much cheaper than fresh eggs in winter. A proper proportion of the different ingre- dients for icing with condensed whites can be easily given, and is forwarded by me for testing my condensed whites, as there are so many different kinds of condensed whites pure and not pure. Proportion One half-ounce of condensed whites of eggs is equivalent to of the whites of five fresh eggs, and requires five ounces of water for condensed solution, and nearly two pounds two ounces of sugar, whites for One ounce of condensed whites is equivalent to ten fresh icing. whites, and requires ten ounces of water and 4^ lbs. of sugar. For