ALL ABOUT PIPING. [chap. 22 Cutting tlie paper. Bag- making. Twisting paper. Closing the bag. As shown in Plate 6, the sheet is first cut in halves, then quarters, eighths, and sixteenths. Those parts on the plate marked Yg-th of a sheet give the ordinary size for piping bags in general. But when applying a big tube, say a large star or round tube, you may in this particular case cut and use the bag. of the size marked \ (the double size). To avoid any mistake in cutting paper look at Plate 7. Having now instructed you in the method of cutting the piping paper, let us now speak about the making of the bag. In the first place, remember that of the sheet is the size for making bags in general, and we shall begin here. The cut-end piece of paper must be above the hand (the right), see A in Plate 8, and also see that the position of your right thumb is just opposite the corner of the paper; thus the lower end of the paper, when twisting the bag, will be of the same height as the bag, which is the very thing required. The position of the right thumb being only inch higher or lower, renders the bag unsuitable, because as we shall see later, when closing the bag, all the ends of the paper must be twisted together, but this can only be done when they run as high as the bag itself. Begin to twist the paper with the first and second fingers of the left hand, and the other three fingers, if in the way, can be bent inside the hand. Twist the paper until it just reaches the right hand thumb without its giving way. Now, by raising the right thumb slightly, you take hold of that partly-begun bag end with this finger pressing lightly enough to avoid making any im- pression on the bag commenced. The right thumb, united with the second and third fingers in taking hold of the pointed end of the bag, remain quite motionless at this particular stage of the operaiton, the twisting being continued on the left side with the left hand. (See B and C, Plate 8). Keep the thumb of the right hand slightly raised, taking care not to let the twisted paper slip, whilst the left thumb is raised just enough to let the paper twist beneath. In closing the bag be careful that the end of the paper sheet— or rather corner, marked Tl iT in the bag (See Plate, No. 10, D) does not slip from your fingers, but preserves its original position at the same height as the bag itself, because, in closing the bag, the paper's ends must be twisted together. You begin closing the bag by turning the higher side of the opening towards the opposite, and thus making the paper double on the opposite lower side. Never fold or put the ends of the paper direct inside the sugar, for if you do this your hands will always be full of icing. (See E, Plate 9). Fig. F, Plate 9, gives the next foldings of the paper, both the right and the left side of the bag's opening being shrunk inwards. In further proceedings Fig. G shows the paper's ends all