ICING IN GENERAL, I.] 3 further particulars you should get a sample pound, with full direc- Great care tions for use. must be But in order that my book may be as much as possible a given to guide for the young piper, I went to the trouble of making some weighing, experiments with fresh whites, and I found the proportion of the various substances to be as follows : The whites of six medium-sized eggs, weighing exactly six ounces, require one pound fourteen ounces of best icing sugar, and sixteen to eighteen drops of acetic acid. By repeated and careful examination I found this proportion perfectly reliable. I think that a bakehouse or dough scale is hardly suitable for weighing six ounces of pure whites exactly. A better kind of scale should be employed. Further on will be found all particulars about mixing and beat- ing up. When making icing from fresh eggs, hen-eggs only should be used. Those of ducks or geese are not suitable for piping work, they are too fat—that is to say, the whites. Icing would not become stiff without some sour ingredient, and acetic acid, lemon juice, tartaric acid are employed. Use only acetic acid; nothing else, it is the best and the cheapest. A pennyworth purchased at the nearest chemist's will last a long time. On this point I must observe that condensed whites should be more appreciated by the British confectioner. Of course I only speak of that which is quite pure. At the present time the British confectioner makes no scruple whatever of replacing pure butter by margarine, and I cannot see that this is wrong in any way. Owing to the great and keen competition which now exists everywhere, in order to compete with our neighbours, we are bound to look for the cheapest possible materials in studying the style of our cus- tomers. But condensed whites (at least the kind I work with, and in- troduce to the notice of my pupils) are not in any way a substitute, and are quite pure ; they are nothing but the dried whites of hen eggs, w^hich come from countries where eggs are produced in such large quantities that they are not estimated at their real value. The surplus of eggs in some parts of Russia, as I have con- vinced myself, also in some parts of Galicia, is beyond con- ception. To enterprise and science is due the preservation of this Condensed valuable article from waste by putting it into a condensed form. whites. Actually, you can get the separate condensed whites, also the yolks and the entire eggs. With a guarantee of their respective purity, the British confectioner should patronise this article more extensively, chiefly in winter, when eggs are both bad and expensive. Of course, as soon as a sound and valuable article Use acetic acid for stiffening icing. Condensed whites in general.