iii. PREFACE. PREFACE. A BOOK about piping and ornamenting has been, I know, a long-felt want. I principally was induced to write this book by the recent appearance of a volume called " Ornamental Confec- tionery," having as it author " Confectioner" Wells, of Scar- borough, By the name he gave the book, one would justly expect to find fullest explanations of all and everything connected with piping and ornamenting. Alas ! matters on this regard are scarcely touched ; while about three parts of the contents of the book are made up and consists of the description and manufacture of gum- paste ornaments, and a few dozen pages with illustrations of gum- paste ornaments, as though the British confectioner does not know how such things look. " Confectioner " Wells, incapable as he is in speaking about piping and ornamenting, shows himself in a sufficient light by the illustrations of bag-making he teaches the British confectioner. No proper piper ever will be able to do any good work if he follows these illustrations, and a journeyman, pretending to be a piper, and starting after " Confectioner " Wells directions, would have to be dismissed, his work absolutely would not do. " Confectioner " Wells in his last literary product—I may add he is already the father of three other literary children, dealing all about confectionery—shows sufficiently that he understands how to make a book up. Many may think what a light amongst confectioners that man must be, this the more as he has chosen for his book a Latin motto capio lumen'' (I take the light). Well, let us see for a moment what kind of a " Light" that man is. He principally dwells, as already suggested, in his last book on advising the learning by the confectioner of the manufacture of gum-paste ornaments, which he says repeatedly he makes from " gum-dragon." Now, I beg to say, that if any reader of this, or any British confectioner whatever, would be good enough to let me know what kind of stuff this "gum-dragon" is, I shall feel greatly obliged. I cannot help declaring that I even neither saw nor heard of any such material.