II.] ICING SUGAR. a slight neglect in this regard may give rise to endless trouble. Do not think that I am too particular in my prescriptions, I am only speaking from my own thirty years' experience. After remaining for some time in the tin icing sugar generally Very hard gets hard, sometimes, if stored in a damp room, like a stone, icing sugar. This sugar, when wanted for piping, must first be broken. A mortar is most suitable for crushing it, and be sure that everything is clean and dry. If you have not got a mortar, break it on the table with a rolling-pin, which must be first washed and dried; and be most particular if you have been applying the rolling-pin as used for making puff-paste. But if you do not wish to wait for this hard sugar, and the next day will be time enough, then take as much sugar as you think necessary—if the lumps are very large, break them roughly, if not, leave them as they are, put the sugar into the basin with the Hquid you employ for icing, work it for a minute with the spatel, just to mix it roughly—this will suffice. Next cover the icing with a cloth in the ordinary manner, and let it rest until the next day, when you will find all the sugar lumps soft as butter, thoroughly impregnated with the Hquid, and now the icing may be beaten up as usual. Icing sugar, which is left untouched for a long time, becomes hard once more. Instead of waiting for the lumps to become properly fine in the icing by its beating up, it is better to sift the sugar once again. Any lumps which have got hard in the icing sugar through water splashing on to it, will not dissolve again. The quantities of icing sugar consumed by one drop of water is astonishing. Icing sugar may be stored anywhere, if the place is dry, by ^Storage of dry I mean not hot. A fine frosty winter's day is much better icmg sugar, than a damp sultry summer's day. To prevent the icing sugar from getting prematurely hard the tins should be kept closed, and for the sake of cleanliness the tin must always be kept under cover If you fail to get served with a good icing sugar, you may apply to me. I can easily help you out of this difficulty.