15 III.] GLAZING A CAKE. how anyone can keep a knife warm for glazing, and if so, of what use is it ? It would not be wanted. Another imbecile, pretending to understand something about confectionery, confuses other people with some icing he calls "royal icing." No one ever heard of such an icing except this so-called confectioner, who appears to me to be a humbug. Whites icing was, is, and always will be called by no other name but whites icing. The complete knack for elegantly glazing a bride-cake depends upon the manner of turning the rotation stand. Looking at some experienced person glazing a cake is more instructive than the best explanation. However, I shall try by some illustrations to make the matter as clear as possible. It is an error to think that the palette knife is the best instru- • ment for elegantly glazing a bride-cake. A good-sized table-knife ^^^^ table is much better, on account of the greater stiffness of the blade. ® A knife with an elastic blade, the part near the handle thick and -^hin^ for unbendmg, whilst the top part is pliable and thm, is not as , . qualified for such work as a good sized table knife. bride-cake There must only be seen the trace of one motion of the knife on the cake's glazing; but with a palette-knife, which has thin, pliable, and thick unbending parts, you could not pass all over the top and the sides of the cake by one rotation. Such a knife would require several rotations, and would leave traces of several going rounds on the glazing, which is just what must be avoided. Keep the cake on the rotation stand just in front of you, at about the level of your chest. In using a wooden flat rotation stand, after my description, you had better raise the stand by putting it on a jar, or round tin, or anything similar, rising it to the required height. You stand straight, do not stoop. Put plenty of icing on the top of the cake, and lay it with the knife in the first roughly over and over. This done, you must now give the cake Avhat I call the pohsh. For doing so the top of the knife must reach to the centre of the cake, not further. The broad blade of the knife, when making ^®^P ^^^J rotation with left hand, must always cover half the cake's diameter. Hold the knife quite steady, perfectly immovable in your right ^^^^^ hand until one complete rotation has been made with the left, ^ , , • • pafiv oiilv when you may slide the knife off in a horizontal position. The -t^e left rotation stand is moved exclusively with the left hand, you must -^^^^^ used get accustomed to this. One entire rotation 7?iust be made with- out any interruption or stopping. Before beginning to glaze, rotation observe position of knife and hands in plate 5, Fig. A. The first time you may very likely not succeed, in one place you might have taken off too much sugar, in another you may have left too much. I had to experience this myself at the