[chap. 54 ALL ABOUT PIPING. Terra-alba This kind of raised central ornaments are of a later period ; ornaments, they only appeared about half-a-dozen years ago. They are composed of a mixture of china earth and stearine, appearing of a whiteness like alabaster, and are, with regard to their coming out of the mould of a perfection absolutely inimitable by gum-paste ornaments. They also have the advantage of being able to be washed whenever dusty or dirty, and this without any effect on the beauty of the vase whatever. They last a lifetime. Also you may, if you like to do so, lend them out on hire. This kind of vases are exclusively used in conjunction with fresh natural flowers, having a flower-holder provided at the head. Two three Such a cake of more than one tier must be dealt with—that is j^jjjj must be glazed and piped—as so many separate cakes as there are more tier tiers. Glazing and piping such a cake as one piece will cause cakes. great inconvenience, the work, in one word, is impossible to be done properly as required. A two or more tier cake if being delivered by the confectioner to the wedding-house does not require the different cakes to be fastened each on the top of the other, a plain putting on is suffici- cient, doing it in another way would only involve great trouble on the party going to cut the cake. Quite a different thing it is by a cake of such a dimension going to be forwarded by rail, &c., that means packed up. Here the cakes must, previous to their coming in a box, be carefully put together, and fastened with some icing between the different tiers. The space of the lower cake going to be occupied later by a smaller one, certainly has not to be piped. The packing Every precaution must be taken in packing a big cake under- of a cake for g^^^S ^ great journey. Cushions of paper shavings of a very soft transport, quality, and also wadding-sheets ought to be in immediate proximity to the cake before filling out the empty space with a more common kind of paper shavings. The closing of the box ought to be effected by screws, neither hammer nor nails must be applied, and those going to receive the cake ought to be instructed to open the box with a screw-driver. A screw of a peculiar length, say three to four inches long, might be applied in the box's top board, exact at the centre, thus to penetrate and rest in the cake's top, which will secure the cake from the unavoidable shaking and turning over during transport. For such cakes I refer to what I said on gelatine icing. Any bride-cake on going to be packed up must at least for two or three days be finished and be kept stored in a properly dry and moderately warmed room, in order to secure the icing getting their full hardness.