IV ALL ABOUT PIPING. I, on making gum-paste work, always adhere to gum tragant. But if this was the only cause of my objecting to his book, I would have kept silent. The very poor description he gives in endeavouring to teach others to do the work is sufficient proof to a practical man that " Confectioner " Wells scarcely understands that matter. " Con- fectioner" Wells, in fact, is himsell absolutely no gum-paste worker, and w^hen he, nevertheless, cites that (let him speak himself) : " I am proud to be able to add that everything given in the following pages is the outcome or suggestion of my own practical experience, so that nothing appears in this book, whether in the way of instruction in the text or of illustrations in the plates, which has not been verified in actual work or found acceptable to my patrons in business." I must say that this is not true; but let me first go back a moment to the manufacture of the kind of ornament Con- fectioner " Wells recommends. Gum-paste work never was and will never become a work which can possibly be connected with pastry confectionery. Having gained my experience in more than two or three different countries, I may say my view of the matter is corroborated by the fact that I never in any country in Europe met with a con- fectioner or pastrycook who was even moderately proficient in both kinds of work. I know of several very good gum-paste men, but there is not a single one amongst them who understands anything about pastry cookery, who would understand how to make a bun, and this plainly because on both lines—the gum-paste manufacturer and the pastrycook line are diametrically opposed. So I may say, with all gravity and in accordance wnth my thirty years' experience, that " Confectioner " Wells will never be able to make any alteration in this matter. To produce gum-paste work to perfection as now sold and served everywhere, and at such cheap prices too, requires the man to stick the whole year round at it, to do absolutely nothing but this kind of work; I may say to do so for his whole Hfetime. But suppose that it might be possible to combine pastry-making with gum-paste working, then it would require quite other, far more and better instruction than what "Confectioner" Wells has given in his "Ornamental Confectionery." Nobody could go on with it, and if anyone did I would be very sorry for him; he would soon find out things to be a great mistake, and to be a great loss to him, both in time and waste of materials. But I am not afraid that any one of the buyers of his celebrated book have made a trial; plainly, because, in accordance with the poor and imperfect description, he cannot.