53 IX.] ORNAMENTS, don't recommend cutting such a top level; this would plainly involve depriving the cake its beauty. Keep icing for glazing stiff; but before doing so you had better fill the cake's burst parts in the first place with some almond icing. Your cake being sufficiently cold, and icing as it ought to be, scarcely any icing will come down. The ornaments for the respective finishing of this kind of cakes, viz., birthday, christening. New Year's, Christmas, and occasional cakes, may be done with some coloured ornaments. Any kind of ornaments, as mentioned on a previous page, may also be obtained in a light coloured style, thus fit for this kind of cakes, and their application will be of the very same method as described and illustrated in bride cakes. Avoid any unnecessary amount of colours in the different ways of decorating such a cake. A wreath you may lay on, with green or otherwise coloured leaves, and yellow or pink roses made of sugar or any other material. Birthday cakes are always welcome with the usual inscription, " Many Happy Returns of the Day." Any pretty fair writer with the sugar bag may go on writing direct on the cake, but any one in finding difficulties herein had better write it down on an extra tablet, if possible an edible, and lay this after on the cake's centre. Such kind of tablets may be obtained at any ornamental manufacturer's, and on finding difficulties in regard to this refer to me direct. Such kind of cakes must on glazing be put on a wire of a pretty fair mesh, thus to allow any icing running down getting separated from the cake's bottom, therefore such wires ought to be provided with certain feet of about half an inch in height. The bottom of the sponge cake must be kept clean and free of any dropping icing. Sponge cakes, as a dummy, may be made from bread dough baked in a sponge mould. Such sponge cake dummies, in order to make them as high as possible, I prefer previous to their coming to be glazed, to be put in a kind of a tin ring a few inches high, fitting the size and shape of the sponge cake. In coming back to bride's-cakes with a word more I wish to say that especially in the districts of Lancashire and Yorkshire I found it the fashion of sawing the cake through the icing into so and so many parts previously to its going to be piped. This will be a saving of trouble when the cake is cut at the w«dding breakfast. Other confectioners save this trouble, and on forwarding the wedding cake simply add a cake saw. These saw^s may now be obtained very practically in knife and saw combined in one blade. Tablets. Sponge cakes. The cake- saw.