ALL ABOUT PIPING. 34 [CHAP A teacher, in order to make his pupils perfect in any branch whatever, must instruct each pupil individual, lowering himself to the level of their intelligences, estimating them for what they are, not for what he would like them to be. Any other method (with regard to piping) will spoil the young piper's pleasure in piping, and it will be to him a burden. That must not be, as piping is the nicest and most agreeable work of the whole confectionery. It sometimes astonishes me when I see a young piper working with a certain bag or tube and making very little progress, suddenly he goes ahead with his work in a satisfactory manner, after having only another bag and tube. According to my experience I may say that amongst the hundreds of pupils availing themselves of my services for learning piping and ornamenting, ninety-nine out of a hundred give satisfaction, more or less, whilst perhaps one of the number found piping something beyoud his abilities. The majority of young pipers show average talent for the bag, whilst a smaller number show a decided talent for this work and advance rapidly. Again, now and then, I have not been successful in promoting the young piper, lady or gentleman, to the points as aimed at by the first course, whereas, in the second or higher course, he or she picks up easily enough what they are backward m, and finally finishes well, with great satisfaction. The beginner in piping, young or old, before decidmg to take lessons in piping, must, in the first instance, make sure of his being able to throw himself heart and soul into the study, that at the end of his course he may reap the desired reward. To the question, whether I consider ladies or gentlemen more talented with the piping bag, I shall answer that there is little diff- erence. I have met with exceedingly talented ladies and gentle men, and I have had the pleasure of bringing them to a high de gree of perfection. I have also found ladies and gentlemen who, in spite of my attention and patience, did not acquire the required standard. Although I was not quite pleased with some of my pupils' final result in some instances, they themselves thought that I ought to be so. Some pupils only attained a satisfactory amount of knowledge about the end of their course in last lessons. AVhat a pleasure it would be if all pupils were like the one who grasps everything at the first trial. But this is a very rare case. I am satisfied with the pupils of average talent. Piping must not be a burden to the piper, but, on the contrary, a pleasure. Piping is the nicest work in confectionery. A few years ago a young gentleman called on me for lessons, and the result of his first course was not very satisfactory. I could not help making some remarks on the subject at this gentleman's departure, adding that, with a little more care, I thought the result would have been a better one.