GLAZING A CAKE. 17 beginning before I found the knack, but you will act more skilful by degrees. Be careful, I tell you once more, always to keep the knife quite horizontal, and move the rotation stand with the left. Now let us glaze the outside of the cake. The left hand again does the turning, the knife being held this time vertically in your right. (Fig. 5, B.) The knife, when being passed round the sides (or depth) of the cake, must touch the cake everywhere, so that only one sweep of the knife is to be seen. Be careful to keep your right, holding the knife, quite motionless, until you move off. Endeavour again to make one complete rotation with- out any interruption. Having finished the top and sides we must touch up the edges on the top, where any excess of icing may appear. Observe plate 5, C, position of hands and knife. The right hand holds the knife motionless, whilst the left gives the rotative motion. As the bride-cake generally gets a second coat, on the second trial of glazing you will find it already less difficult. But let me repeat again there is no proper glazing possible without a rotation stand. Before finishing the subject of icings, let me remark that any fondant or water icings flavoured with essence of rose, fleur d'orange, or vanilla, or any other flavour, is far superior for eating to white icing, which, when properly dry, endangers the eater's teeth. The employment of whites icing, and in such thick coats too, is a specific English characteristic. As this whites icing is symbolical for innocence, it will no doubt, continue to be fashionable; this is the reason of its use for that purpose. The cause of the icing changing its colour, becoming yellow ^j^^ or brown as you may call it, is due to the more or less age of the changing cake since the time of baking, and there is no remedy for this colour of the defect when it appears. The butter as contained by the cake affects icing on a the icing outside, and this takes place sooner the more later cake, the cake has been baked. A cake three months old, when glazed, will be little, if at all, afflicted with this defect. There are, of course, but very few representatives of our line whose business is so extensive as to require a stock of every size of baked bride-cakes to be kept in readiness. Foremost of our craftsman only make such cakes to order, and where there is a very short notice for the cake to be delivered we are astonished to see how soon the icing loses its whiteness and beauty. In the case of bride-cakes it is recommended to give the cake one coat to-day and the other to-morrow, also letting the glazing become dry (if possible) before beginning the piping. Drying a cake by force in a prover, or in front of the oven door, should if possible be avoided, because the cake getting warm once more will very soon make the butter appear in the, icing. c