VI.] TALENT FOR PIPING, 35 A few months later the same gentleman came and started for the second or higher course, and I shall never forget the resolution he showed in starting with the bag. The result of his second course was quite satisfactory on either side. So you see that it comes not always all at once—one learns it sooner, the other later. Here is another instance. Two years ago a young lady applied to me to take the first course of lessons, and this young lady finished her course and left before reaching the stage she was expected to gain. I heard nothing more about this young lady until twelve months later, ' when she called upon me to go through the higher course ; and here I had an opportunity of observing what a degree of perfection can be attained by even a little talented piper by self practice at home. This young lady, to whom twelve months before the piping bag had been rather an unmanageable thing, astonished me now by her firm and skilful start, and through the entire lesson her hands and fingers were quite free from shaking. I need hardly add that the young lady left London quite satis- fied with her progress with the piping bag. With regard to giving lessons in piping and ornamenting by way of correspondence, as here and there advertised, I have to say that such a thing is quite impossible, no one will ever be able to do such a thing. It is impossible, and will always be so ; and should you ever meet with any contrary statements, you may treat such as mere swindles. There was once a gentleman in London who, in order to make the innocent drop better into his trap, styled himself simply " Professor." Many people lost their money, and having learned nothing whatever, applied later on to me for education, telling me their experience. No confectioner whatever is justified to such a title; an old No title of ass has just as much right to call himself " Mayor," or Professor General," or anything else. Therefore be careful. in con- I have visited several schools of confectionery, both in Ger- fectionery. many, Austria, and Switzerland, the teachers of which I found really tip-top men, but none of these schools have any power to confer any such diploma whatever. The title Professor amongst confectioners—and no practical confectioner ever doubted it—is a very clumsy swindle. Any man thoroughly acquainted with his trade makes his bread without any such trickery. D 2