38 [chap. ALL ABOUT PIPING. start. Any line, however long, must be free from knots, lumps, or other irregularities. The arm In piping, first in a sitting posture, the young piper should must not endeavour to work without letting his arm rest on the table, lean on because later on, when piping a cake, he might be inclined to rest table. the arm as well upon the cake, which, of course, would not do. (See Plate 14.) In order to make with the same tube some curves, such as are seen on Plate 14, A, I advise the young piper, in order to prevent these undulations or waves from being of different sizes and shapes, to mark the object he may pipe upon with equal sized squares as in the case of the straight lines. (See both figures, Plates 14.) Should he find any difficulty either with the tins or the marks and cuttings, he may apply to me in all confidence for further information. The tape These are the tubes from 93 of my tube list up to no. You tube. have in piping to apply them directly on the cake, just as you do with a pen in writing. The kind of undulation, &c., as shown on Plate 15, A, has to be made not all at once, like with a round tube (15 B), with a unique motion, but with a gradual ascending and descending movement. A great improvement in the curves, when using the tape tubes, is the starting of the curve very lightly, or with great thinness, employing very little sugar, augmenting the quantity to the middle of the curvature, and, in the descending strokes, the pressure is lightened as at the commencement, and the next curve, or half- circle, is made thin like the previous 15 A. The star. The next tube for practising with is the " star " tube (Nos. i to 24). P'or home practice you may use either tube i or 2, or 13 and 14. For any work you may do with that tube keep the bag pretty near the cake or tin, but not in such close proximity as the tape tube. It is impossible to give any better or more accurate description on paper. The piper must find out the rest for him- self, and I have no doubt he will. (See second design, 15 B.) Tube 85-92 is, firstly, a tube for different kinds of flowers ; this work is not an easy matter, and demands a thorough mastery over the bag. Tube 85-92 also may be applied with very good effect on cakes. Some specimens of this tube work are given in Plate 15, C. Tubes with Tube 129-187. This tube, although always valuable, is of double or most use at Christmas, when a piper must be able to turn out a triple per- lot of well-piped and finished cakes in one day's work. Specimens forations. of work with this tube are given in Plate 15, D. Bags to be All bags as soon as out of use must be laid on the icing cloth, kept on the with the tube downwards, to prevent the icing from getting dry in icing cloth, the tube.