IV.] PIPING PAPER AND BAG MAKING, 19 CHAPTER IV. PIPING PAPER AND BAG MAKING, In general, piping can only be done properly with paper bags, and there is a paper manufactured for this exclusive purpose, called piping paper. Proper piping cannot be done without suit- able instruments and proper tools. Piping paper, until when I recently started my school for piping, &c., was a comparatively little known article in the United Kingdom amongst British con- fectioners. But I may tell you that piping paper was known and employed by all Continental confectioners long before my appear- ance in the confectionery line (1863). On my arrival in England, in 1881, I found it employed in very few businesses—only those where a special piper, a foreigner, was kept. I cannot state the date and year of its first introduction, and it would be rather late for me to speak in praise of an article already in use half a century. In order to become better acquainted with modern appliances, the British confectioner's assistant, before going into business for himself, ought to travel a bit about in other countries, studying with his own eyes foreign methods and procedures, so as to judge for himself what he may think to be an improvement to the style known to him. Let me repeat that no piping can be done in a suitable, elaborate style without piping paper. Piping paper is quite a specially manufactured paper for that very purpose only. It is made from rags of a very strong texture ; its composition is a secret in possession only of the maker. This paper, in spite of its delicate appearance, which we may compare with that of an onion skin, is of wonderful strength and elasticity, and will support great strains when made into bags without tearing or bursting. It is regrettable that we cannot get this paper without going abroad for it, which is a cause of extra expense; but as each bag may be re-filled several times when in the hands of an experienced piper, it is not so expensive as you might be led to suppose. Refilling with icing, and repeated use of the same bag, depends upon the skill and quickness of the piper. c 2