mm mm mm UNIVERSITY Mrtical Si s s a sv, a ^ mm j§SI3 mm mm mm mm mm mm mm am mm am.• : < -r ■ . -f,r ■ ■ ; •„ / / c • '*"3, MPRIZE DISSERTATIONS By M. DAVID, SURGEON AT ROUEN IN NORMANDY, AS ADJUDGED BY THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF SURGERY IN PARIS. FIRST, ON THE EFFECTS OF MOTION AND REST, AND THEIR SEVERAL MODES OF APPLICATION IN SURGERY. SECONDLY, ON THE VARIOUS EFFECTS OF COUNTER - STROKES ON THE HUMAN BODY, AND THE METHODS OF RELIEVING THEM. TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL FRENCH, WITH COPIOUS ADDITIONAL ANNOTATIONS, By J. O. JUSTAMOND, F. R. S. SURGEON TO THE WESTMINSTER HOSPITAL. ■aggSE-fsa LONDON: Piinted for T. Cadell, in the Strand, M.DCC.XC\ r I U f : . ' T ' ' . 1 Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 > ■ https://archive.org/details/b24925883- THE SUBJECT PROPOSED FOR THE PRIZE S Y THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF SURGERY AT PARIS, FOR THE YEAR 1778. TO EXPLAIN THE EFFECTS OF MOTION AND REST, AND THE INDICA- TIONS ACCORDING TO WHICH THE USE OF EITHER SHOULD BE PRE- SCRIBED IN SURGICAL DIS£ASES(l). Motion and reft are certainly two methods of cure, the rational - employment of which may contribute to enlarge the bounds of furgical knowledge, fince the Academy, ever intent on the improvement of this falutary art, propofes for the fubjeft of the prize they mean to diftribute, to defcribe their effe£ts, and to fhew the indications which direct the ufe of them in furgical difeafes. The difcuflion of a queftion of this nature, which is more interesting than it may appear at hrfc fight, muft necefla- rily fuggeft intentions of cure, which this celebrated body alone can per- ceive, apd the expofition of which they may, perhaps, expert in vain B fromON THE EFFECTS OF 2 from thofe who (hall employ themfcllves on a fubjed: fo important, To treat it properly would require the united genius and knowledge of thofe learned men of which the fociety is compofed ;~how is it pofiible then, that one man alone, left to his own powers, can flatter himfelf, that on fo intricate a queftion, he (hall be able to fatisfy judges, before whom, moderate talents cannot appear without dread ? This humiliating re- flection would prevent me from entering the lifts, were I not encouraged by the confideration of their indulgence, the infeparable attendants on learning. In granting the prize to the moft Ikilful, they do not always defpife the labours of thofe whom an honeft confidence engages in the competition. Befides, if I have laboured unfuccefsfully, my excufe wiii be in the greatnefs of the talk, which, as it aftonifhes without difeoura- ging me, I will proceed to exert my utmoft efforts to fulfill. The effedts of motion in the animal oeconomy are evident, but motion itfelf is an effedl produced by its own caufes. sdn order therefore to give as much clearnefs to the difeuftion of this queftion as it is capable of, it feems to me of feme utility, to confider the fource from whence motion is derived.-—This may enable us to explain its effedh with fome precifion, in confequence of which the application of them to furgical difeafes, will become more methodical and certain. Such is the plan I propofe to follow; the propriety of which will, I hope, appear in the unfolding of it. It is to motion that the univerfe owes that life with which it is anima- ted. Man, the epitome of the univerfe, difcovers, in all the faculties which conftitute and charafterife him, the produce of an uniform and regular motion., fubordinate to powers, the admirable mechanifin of which will ever be unknown to us. But, without endeavouring to form conjedures concerning this mechanilm, we may reafonably prefume, that motion is the effedt of a general adtive principle, dilpeded throughout the univerfe, by that Being who created it. This principle is undoubt- edly material, and among the feveral fubftances that conftitute our globe, and the beings that adorn its furface, there ieems to be but one that po:« lefti. s3 MOTION A ND REST. fefles in itfeif this property of motion j that is fire ; ail the reft are in a ftate of inactivity. - This active principle, united to fome of our fluids, conveys motion into the machine, and tranfmits it by means of organs appropriated to this effeCt Thefe organs are the mufcles, of which there are two kinds ; fome which are not fubjeCt to the controul of the will, and whofe motion begun at the firft moment of existence, is uninterruptedly continued to its end; fuch are the heart, the arteries, the ftomach, the intek fines, &c. There are others whofe motion is fubjeCt to the will, and which ceafe to act whenever they are not determined by that principle, either for the wants or pleafures of the individual; fuch are the mufcles deftined for the motion of fome of the parts of the human body, and employed in conveying us from one place to another. This divifion determines two kinds of motion, which are diftinguifhed from each other by very palpable lines of feparation. —- The one is em- ployed in entertaining the vital principle, the other does no more than, fupply its exigencies and its pleafures ; a difference fo remarkable, that it neceiTarily implies one in the fource from whence thefe motions are de- rived. The nerves are the vifible canals through which the aClive fluid we attri- bute thefe two kinds of motion to, is conveyed throughout the whole extent of the animal oeconomy. Their origin is well known : they are all derived from the organs contained within the cavity of the fkull; and amidft the numerous canals which take their rife from the medullary fub- ftance of the brain and cerebellum, we may diftinguilh thofe which are difti'ibutcd to thofe important organs whofe addon, independent of the will, is abiolutely eflential to life ; thefe are particularly the intercoftal nerve and the eighth pair, which evidently arife from theiproceilus annu- laris, or Pons Varoliri3), formed, as it feems, by the union of the pedun- cles of the cerebellum, while no part of the medullary fubftance of the brain feems to enter into its competition, The nerve:, on the contrary, i whichON THE EFFECTS OF 4 which are diftributed to organs defined to lefs important fun<ftions ; to fuch, for inftance, whofe province it is to direct our loco-motive powers, fubjedt to the controul of the will; thefe, I fay, are all derived from the medullary fubftance of the brain, or from the fpinal marrow which is the continuation of it. From this obfervation we may be convinced that the fluid feparated by the cerebellum is of a fuperior quality to that furnifhed by the brain, and that the functions of the firft of thefe organs, are infinitely more im- portant than thofe which are afligned to the latter. This fuperiority feems to be indicated by nature in the precautions fhe has taken to fecure the cerebellum from external injuries. The brain, it is true, is likewife protected from them ; but the anxiety of nature in her precautions to pre- vent the injuries the brain might be expofed to, are infinitely lefs remark- able than thofe fhe has employed in fheltering the cerebellum from any hurt that might befall it from without. In fa£t, the fituation of the ca- vities occupied by the cerebellum, the thicknefs of the occipital bone, in thofe parts where external fhocks might take place, the quantity of muf- cles that furround that part of the bafis of the fkull where the bone is thinneft, the tentorium which covers the cerebellum, and prevents it from fuffering compreffion from the pofterior lobes of the brain ; the conftruftion of this tentorium, made with a fagacity which cannot be fufficiently admired; the fpeedy death which is the confequence of wounds inflicfted on the cerebellum, while very material wounds of the brain are fometimes not mortal ; all thefe circumftances, I fay, contri- bute to give the ftrongeft degree of evidence to the fuperiority . we have eftablifhed. But the brain and the cerebellum are not the only preparers of animal fpirits ; we find other organs in the cavity of the fkull, which leave us no room to doubt, that in her preparation of the nervous fluid, nature hath eftablifhed a difference relative to rhe end fhe means to accomplifh. The corpora flriata, for inftance, placed in the midft of the brain, are they not particular organs which difplay the whole apparatus for fecre- tion ;MOTION AND REST. S tion ; to wit, a greyifh fubftance, the fecretory organ(4), and a white Or medullary fubftance, the union of which forms the origin of the firft pair of nerves, deftined to convey that particular fluid fitted to the pur- pofes of fmelling ? Do not the fecond pair of nerves, which become' the immediate or- gan of vifion, take their rife from a particular fubftance, diftinguifhed by the name of thalami nervorum opticorum, and which feems to form a kind of fmaller, in the midft of the larger brain ? The medullary fub- ftance, which their external furface prefents, is probably impregnated with a fluid already fecreted in fome other part, and winch, in its paf- fage through the greyifh fubftance of thefe thalami, receives a higher degree of elaboration before it reaches the medullary fubftance, which is in their center, and which is the origin of the optic nerves, continually replete with a particular fluid, calculated folely to receive the impreftions of light. The pineal gland compofed of a greyifh fubftance, and which has two medullary threads produced from it, is it not alfo the ftrainer of a fluid deftined to fupply fome important functions ? The pituitary gland, the ufe of which we are as little acquainted with as with that of the former, may it not likewife be the elaborately of fome particular fluid abfolutely neceffary to life ? This may, at leaft, be prefumed, when we confider all the precautions nature has taken to fecure it from outward injury, and from being comprefled by the parts that furround it ; for nature does no- thing without neceffity or without a motive, and wherever we can fol- low her fteps, or difeover them by conjecture, we find that her choice is always fupported by reafons which compel us to admire and be filenTT ' The third pair of nerves gives us another proof that nature does not make an indiferiminate ufe of the two fources we have indicated. It is from the medullary fubftance of the brain that this pair draws the fluid it fupplies to the mufcles that are governed by it, which are the movers of the eye, an organ endowed with automatic motions, produced by the C fluid6 ' ON THE EFFECTS Of fluid of the third pair, and with motions of expreflion which certainly require fluids derived from other lources. It is for this reafon we fee that the fourth pair, a fmall nervous filament, goes to receive the fluid it is to convey to the external oblique mufcle of the eye, from the pofte- rior and inferior part of the tuberculi quadrigemini (s) The fame thing may be obferved of the branch of the flxth pair which goes to the abduc- tor, and whofe origin is at the Pons Varolii. Had the globe of the eye wanted nothing more than a change of pofi- tion, the third pair fupplies it with filaments of a fufficient fize to have produced this effect for as long a continuance, and as frequently as the functions of this organ might require, or otberwife this third pair would have been made more conflderable at the expence of the large medullary mafs of the brain ; but the fluid fupplied by this pair could not, proba- bly, in many circumftances, have anfwered all the defigns of nature for want of fufficient activity and energy. Love, anger, joy, lorrow, pride, and contempt, which are fo ftrongly exprefled by the eye, that it is with reafon confidered as the mirror of the foul, are undoubtedly afteftions which cannot be exprefled by the powers of that grofler fluid which is fecreted from the great refervoir. It is true, that the two laid: branches of the fifth pair of nerves, as well as its ophthalmic branch which contributes to form the intercoftal nerve, the remainder of the flxth pair which has not been employed in this foundation, and the feventh pair, derive the fluid they are deflined to convey, from the medullary fubftance of the cerebellum, in common with the intercoftal nerve and the eighth pair. But although the func- tions of the parts on which they are beftowed, do not immediately feem of fo great importance as thofe of the parts to which the intercoftal nerve and the eighth pair are diftributed, yet it is no lefs certain that the cefla- tion of their adftion would very foon be followed by death. Were the fecretion of the falivary fluid, were maftication, or degluti- tion, interrupted for a certain fpace of time, in vain would the heart, the lungs,7 MOTION AND REST. lungs, the domach, the intedines, &c., enjoy the power of fulfilling the offices affigned to them ; the animal would foon ceafe to live. If the fmell, the fight, and the hearing, be not abfolutely eflential to life, they are, at lead, fenfations which conditute the only pleafures of our exid- ence, and the man, who fhould be deprived of them, would probably be ranked among the mod dupid animals ; it is even to be prefumed that it the deficiency of the fenfes were not then filled up by fome particular in- dinft, he would be unable to minider to his own wants, even in the midd of thofe productions which might be fufficient for the purpofe. From what has been faid, we are obliged to allow, that the fluid which makes of man a living and thinking being which renders him capable of all thofe improvements that embellifh his nature, is derived either from the medullary fubdance of the cerebellum, or from particular and very didinCt organs of the brain itfelf; and that the loco-motive faculty which completes the animal machine, by adding greatly to the pleafures of its exidence, is derived from the fluid furnifhed by the medullary fub- dance of the brain. This prefents to us two kinds of motion, as didinft from each other as the fprings from whence they are derived. One kind, which effentially conditutes life, over which the will exerts no empire, and which is produced by the fluid feparated from the cerebellum ; ano- ther kind, not of fuch abfolute neceffity, fubjeft to the controul of the will, and effeded by the fluid ieparated from the brain. Thefe preliminary notions concerning the origin and the didiindions of motion being acquired, its effefts on the animal oeconomy will more ea- fily be perceived, and the indications which direCt the ufe of it, will be more readily fuggeded. Thefe two points of difcudion form a natural divifion of this eflay into two parts. The objeft of the fird will be to demondrate the effetds of motion and red, and the fecond will difcover the indications which prefcribe the ufe of either in furgical diforders, C 2 PARTI . r - ■ > ■PART L AN EXPLANATION OF THE EFFECTS OF MOTION AND REST, THOUGH the motion of the organs efTential to life, may, of it- felf, maintain the vital principle in man for a confiderable time, yet this motion is not bellowed upon an individual deflined to live by himfelf; for, in man, the loco-motive faculty is almofl as neceflary to his exig- ence, as that kind of motion on which life more particularly depends. This is fo true, that a paralytic perfon left to himfelf would foon perifli, although his organs of circulation, refpiration, digeflion, and thofe of the other feveral fecretions, &c., fhould have preferved the faculty of per- forming their refpedive offices. Indeed, what fort of life is it that the unfortunate clals of men enjoy who are afflicted with this difeafe, even when they are provided with all the helps which perfons who feel for their fituation can fupply them ? Some few individuals only ex- cepted, they continue to exifl, and that is all. If, therefore, the ac- tion of the external mufcles, or the exertion of the loco-motive faculty, 3 be10 ON THE EFFECTS OF be not abfolutely necdliry to life, they do, at leaft, contribute in a very evident manner, not only to its fupport, but alfo to its energy. The effects of tire exertion of this loco-motive power cannot, there- fore, be indifferent in the cure of furgical diforders ; they may facilitate or diflurb this end as they are properly or improperly applied. The aca- demy certainly experts from thofe who fhall difcufs the queftion propo- fed, an explanation of the cafes and the times when it is neceffarv to forbid or to advife the exertion of this power. But to proceed with order in io interefting a fubjeCt, after having briefly expofed the effects of the motion of thofe organs whofe aCtion conftitutes life, it will be proper to explain the fhare which the motion of thofe on which life does not im- mediately depend, lias in the prefervation, and if we may be allowed to fay fo, the perfection, of the vital principle. The heart is moved and exhibits a fucceffion of dilatations and con- tractions, by means of which the circulation of the blood is carried on. The arteries deftined to convey this fluid, prefent the fame phaenomena to our view. But thefe aCtions diminifh as they proceed, fo that the contracting power which belongs to the arteries, and which is ftill fo vi- fible in fmall arterial branches, is, at length, reduced in their laft fubdi- vifions, in the Ipunphatic and ferous veffels(6) that are continued from them, and in the origin of the veins in which they terminate, into a kind of elaflic power which conftitutes the tone or fpring of all our parts. This laft is an imperceptible aCtion, fufficing only to keep up the motion of the fluids, to preferve them in a fluid ftate, and to maintain life, which is the confequence of this fluidity. The cheft dilates and contracts itfelf alternately by the aCtion of muf- cles, over which the will has but a very limited power of fufpenfion or acceleration ; fo that refpiration is habitually carried on wdthout the con- currence of the will. The ftomach is poffeffed of a power of contrac- tion proper to the fibres that compofe it ; the inteftines are endowed with a vermicular motion which is particular to them ; in thefe vifcera, asMOTION AND REST. 11 as in the liver, the fpleen, the pancreas, the kidneys, the organs'of ge- neration, the brain, and moft of the other glands, there are neceflary fecretions carried on, which are as much the product of the motion im- p re fled by the heart on the fluids it fupplies them with, as of that which they receive from the contracting power of thefe vifcera themfelves, which are far from being paflive. It is indeed by their combined adtion that life is continued and maintained ; but this is upon the fuppofition that the ftomach is conftantly receiving fubftances, proper to furnilh materials, for the repairs required to lupply the lofles and decays that are the neceflary confequence of excretion and motion. Under this fuppofi- tion, each of the organs eflential to life, will feparate from the primary fluid, tbofe liquids that are neceflary for its fupport, and for the fecre- tion it.muft perform, if it be a fecretory organ. But in order that the primary fluid may fupply materials fit for the repairing of the machine, and for the various fecretions that are to be carried on throughout the animal oeconomy, it is neceflary that the crude materials extracted from the aliments by the juices fubfervient to digeftion, and introduced by the laCteal veflels and the thoracic duCt into the general courle of the circu- lation flhould undergo l'ome previous elaborations. Thefe are brought about by the agitation of thofe materials, and by the friction and tritu- ration that are its effeCts, and which fit them, at length, to afi'ociate themfelves with other analogous materials, for the repairing of the ma- chine in which they are deftined to be employed. But in order that thefe elaborations may be fuch as are required, and that they may preferve in the animated machine the piinciple of life in its full vigour, it is necef- fary that the motion fhould be regulated at a certain medium indicated by nature. Below this medium, the elaborations produced can only furnifh thick, ill-conco£ted materials for the purpofe of repairing ; the caufe of numberlefs obftruftions, which, after they have gradually em- barrafled the motions of the machine, at length deftroy it. Above this medium, motion gives the reparatory fubftances a hafty elaboration, that brings them too fpeedily to that putrid decompofition which is their laft period, and which confequently does not allow them to be employed for a fufficient length of time in the fupport of the machine. From 3 which12 ON THE EFFECTS OF which it follows, that an excefs of motion is liable to inconveniences di- rectly oppofite to thofe that are the effect of its deficiency ; fuch are the dilorders arifing from the diffolution of our fluids, and the difunion of the globules that compofe them, together with the various difeafes and accidents that may fpring from this general caufe. Nature, ever attentive to the prefervation of that machine, in the conftrudtion of which fhe hath appeared to take fo much delight, haB provided for it in a manner as wife as it is admirable. Motion being the only way of preferving it, fhe hath at firft given it a primitive, effential kind of motion, diffuled throughout the whole animal oeconomy, over which the will has no power, and which can alone entertain the vital principle in man; but if he "were reftrained to this motion alone, his life, far from being a blefiing to him, would have been a fatal gift. The loco-motive faculty fubjedt to the controul of the will, comes very feafonably to the affiftance of this firft kind of motion, the effects of which it is to complete, by exalting it to that medium which can only produce the proper elaborations for the fupport of the animal oeconomy As the will is capable of putting this loco-motive faculty into adtion, it might alfo render it ufelefs ; but nature has provided againft this, by fub- mitting the animated machine to the imperious voice of want, in giving it paftions and fenfations. By thefe it is folicited, it is compelled to move, to diredl itfelf towards the objects it feels itfelf inclined to, to fearch for them, and to labour in order to procure to itfelf the enjoy- ment of them. Thus it is by the fenfe of want that nature has chofen to furnifh the machine fhe meant to pteferve, with a fupply of motion, abfolutely neceffary to maintain it in its entire ftate, during as long a continuance as it was defigned for at its firft conftrudtion. The law of labour impofed upon us by the Author of nature, was therefore connedtcd with the plan of our prefervation ; and that we might not infringe this law, he has made labour abiolutely neceffary for us. Unhappy are they who attempt to elude it ! The numberlefs dif- eafes they are afflidted with, and which are the charadteriftic of a life reducedMOTION AND REST. i *3 reduced within narrower bounds expofe them to a very fevere penalty for the infringement of this facred law. But this fecondary motion, fubjedt to the controul of the will, and which comes fo feafonably to the affiftance of the firft in perfecting the functions of the animal (economy, may deprave them when it is carried to excefs ; it might even deftroy them very fpeedily, had it no other re- ftraint befdes that of the will. For the imperious will, folicited by paf- fions it is eager to gratify, and ever intent upon its objeCt, would foon carry to excefs the motion which is fubordinate to it, and would imper- ceptibly flrike the fatal blow to that machine for the prefervation of which it was inftituted. But here again nature, as in every other inftance, has been watchful to prevent the ahufe ; for, after motions too violent, or too long con- tinued, fhe hath made the powers that execute them, difobedient to the call of the will. A kind of palfy, the effeCt of the animal fpirits being exhaufted, follows the too forcible exertion of the mufcles, and makes reft neceffary. Reft may be compleat or incompleat ; compleat, when the loco-motive faculty feems to be in a perfeCt ftate of annihilation, and that the organs of the fenl'es require to be excited by a ftimulus more powerful than ufual, from the fubftances which ought to affeCl them ; this it is that conftitutes fleep : incompleat, when the organs of the fen- fes, reftored, at the time of waking, to their natural fenfibility, the loco- motive faculty, without being exerted, may be put into aCtion by the flighted impulfe of the will. This incompleat kind of reft is divided into general and partial; general, when this faculty is not exerted on any of the parts of the machine ; partial, when it is put into aCtion, to move only fome of its parts. Reft, as we fee, is fufceptible of many degrees, and hath advantages as real and as efficacious as thofe that refult from motion. Reft is, in- deed, the regulator of motion, and is intended to keep it in that ftate of equilibrium which conftitutes health ; or rather it is the loco-motive fa- D culty,ON THE EFFECTS OF 6 employed 1+ culty, which being fometimes exerted, and fometimes fufpended, be- comes the eflential regulator. What motion has deftroyed or corrupted, is repaired by reft, and the diforders which may be occafioned by a too long continuance of reft are relieved by motion. It is during the inter- vals of inaction, or oft'fleep, which neceflarily fucceeds to labour, that the vital fluid, exhaufted or corrupted by the efFe&s of motion, is repaired and reftored after all its lofl'es; and that the liquids, too much agitated and attenuated by mufcular action long continued, refume their former degree of conftftence. From motion carried beyond the degree required, there muft follow a diflolution, or a premature decompofition of the hu- mours neceflary for the fupport of the animal oeconomy ; and from ex- cefs of reft they muft become too much thickened. Some reflections and faCls will give the higheft degree of evidence to thefe two aflfertions. While motion, by the combination of its two kinds above mentioned, is kept in its due medium, the repairing materials conveyed every day into the general courfe of the circulation, are not more agitated and at- tenuated than they fliould be to unite themfelves with others fimilar to them, and to be conveyed with thefe to the parts where they are to be employed. They do not mix or contrad: adhefions with materials of a different kind, except as far as is neceflary to accomplifti any views na- ture may have in bringing about fuch combinations. Each of thefe ma- terials, which hath not contracted any improper connection, is readily and eafily admitted into the ftrainers deftined to receive it ; all the fecre- tions are properly carried on, and harmony reigns throughout the ma- chine. It is in this ftate of health, or of moderate motion which conftitutes it, that fome part of the fat and oily fubftances conveyed by the primary fluid, is continually depoftted in particular divilions of the cellular fub- ftance, to form and keep up what we call a natural plumpnefs -^). It fhould feem indeed, when motion is carried beyond this medium, that the repairing materials, undergoing a more powerful trituration, ought looner to acquire that degree of elaboration which makes them fit to beiS MOTION AND REST. employed in repairing the machine ; but, on the contrary, exceffive mo- tion dedroys this ufeful end, by forming between thefe materials that are of a different nature, cohefions and connexions which prevent them from being depofited in a fufficient proportion for the fupport of the ma- chine ; and fuch of them as may be depolited in a fufficient propor- tion, will too foon have attained that period which requires their being replaced. In this date of exceffive motion, which difeovers, at leaf!:, a kind of diffolution in our juices, the oily part of the blood is either depofited in a very fmall quantity in the adipofe cells, or is perpetually re-abforbed into the general courfe of the circulation, either to avoid the pernicious effeXs of too great a friXion, or, in mixing, by the means of tritura- tion, with certain depraved humours and materials, to facilitate their expulfion ; and that by reafon of its oily fmooth particles, which pre- vent the corrugation and contraXion of the drainers through which thefe corrupted juices mud pafs. Thus we fee that leannefs is ufually the attendant of exceffive labour ; the continuance of it would necedarily bring on a complete diffolution of our juices ; but nature has put infur- mountable obdacles to this fatal effeX ; to wit, laffitude, and deep which fucceeds to it. During the latter, which is an image of the mod per- feX date of red, the mafs of humours, being only affeXed by that mo- tion which is produced by the aXion of organs not fubjeX to the will, the particles of fimilar materials, diffufed throughout this mafs and which have experienced a kind of feparation, are endeavouring to re- unite themfelves, and to contraX a new degree of coherence that may enable them to fudain the efforts of that motion which mud increafe at the time of waking. Frefh food, by furnifhing recruits of crude and glutinous materials, contributes to drengthen this falutary cohefion, and to weaken the pernicious effeXs of motion too long continued. It is fo true that red increafes the confidence of our juices, that when it is exceffive, by carrying this confidence too far, it produces evident marks of infpidation in lome of our humours. Ir is chiefly among men D 2 who,5 ON THE EFFECTS OF who live in a ftate of inaction and indolence, that we find that exorbi- tant fatnefs which befpeaks an habitual depofit of glutinous and* oily juices in the divisions of the cellular fubflance. In fuch perfons it is not neceflary that this juice, in many refpe&s fo pernicious, fhould be taken up into the general mafs to avoid the pernicious effe&s of fri&ion, which they are far from carrying to excefs by mufcular action. It is among fedentary and idle perfons that we ufually obferve thole infpifl'a- tions of the lymph, which occafion obftrudtions fo difficult to conquer ; and thofe nervous dil'orders fo common in the prelent age, and which are evidently produced by the thickening of fome of the juices of the animal oeconomy. This may the more reafonably be prefumed, as thefe affedlions are mitigated by the continued ufe of diluters, of warm bath- ing, which fupplies a greater quantity of fluid to thefe infpilfated juices, and of cold bathing, which, while it affifts in this flift intention, encou- rages, at the fame time, their feparation, by {lengthening the tone of the folids that are to a£t upon them. We may add that thefe difeafes are cured by a vigorous and continued exertion of mufcular attion, which, after it has reftored thefe infpilfated juices to their natural fluidity, is alone capable of maintaining them in it. From what has been faid, it follows, that motion has the property of attenuating our fluids, and of keeping them in a Hate of fluidity propor- tioned to the a£live caufe. This fluidity may be either too great from the too violent and too long continued exertion of the agent that produ- ces it; and, in this cafe, it is called diflolution, and the machine is ex- pofed to thofe diforders which arife from this kind of caufe ; or elfe this fluidity may be lefs than the neceflary degree, which may proceed from the weaknefs or inadlion of the agent that ffiould keep it up. In this inftance, the want of fluidity takes the name of infpilfation, and the diforders maniftfled in the animal oeconomy, are fuch as are produced from this kind of caufe. PARTMOTION AND REST. 11 PART TJ. EXPLANATION OF THE INDICATIONS WHICH ARE TO LEAD US IN PRESCRIBING THE USE OF MOTION AND REST IN SURGICAL DISORDERS. From the fhort account we have been giving of the neceflity of mo- tion, and of its effects, it will not be difficult to difcover the indications which are to lead us in prefcribing or forbidding the ufe of it in furgi- cal diforders. If it be required to refill or prevent the infpiflation of the fluids in the cure of thefe diforders, it will be neceffary to call in the affidance of motion, provided there be no particular circumdance that may render the ufe of it improper. If, on the contrary, the plan of cure require to give a better confidence to the fluids, and if the effects of motion fhould counteract this plan, we muft have recourfe to reft. We fhall be in no danger of making an improper application of thefe two curative methods, if we can fettle our ideas upon the advantages that attend them, by facts and inftances fupported with proper reflec- tions ; and in order to throw this part of our effay into fome method, we will divide it into two feCtions. In the fird we fhall expofe the indi- cations which are to determine the ufe of motion ; and in the lad, thofe in which red is to be prefcribed. SEC-. -1 SECTION I. EXPLANATION OF THE INDICATIONS WHICH ARE TO LEAD US IN PRESCRIBING MOTION FOR THE CURE OF SURGICAL DISEASES. .A. M O N G the feveral furgical difeafes in which experience has ef la- blilhed the neceffity of motion, we find, that they are all produced by the infpiffation of fome of our fluids. The gout, the rheumatifm, an- chylofes beginning or formed, ftiffnefles of the joint, all proceed from this caufe. The gout indeed, that cruel and common diforder, which fcarce ever vifits the cottage of the poor man, but whofe ordinary refi- dence is in the midft of luxury and opulence, difcovers, in all infian- ces, an evident infpiflation of the lymph. The kind of ferum which circulates, being no longer able to preferve, in a fiate of diflfolution, all the earthy particles it conveys through the lymphatic veflels of the liga- ments and aponeurofes that furround the extremities, as the feet and the wrifts, depofits there fome of thefe materials. Thefe, lofing that globular form which they had in common with the fluid that ferved as their menftruum, become irritating bodies, the aCtion of which, upon aponeurotic parts of extreme fenfibility, occafions thofe acute pains that characterize20 ON THE EFFECTS OF charaderize this difeafe. Nature, it is true, generally fucceeds in difli- pating its paroxyfms by a procefs of greater or lefs continuance ; but this procefs is nothing more than an increafe of motion, which mani- fefts itfelf, firft, in the part affedcd, by the fvvelling, pain, and inflam- mation we obferve in it; -then in the whole habit, by the fullnefs of the pulfe, and the evident fever that often accompanies this difeafe. It is by means of a fimilar increafe of motion, that nature, at length, prevails, in comminuting and attenuating the earthy materials that are depofited, fo as to render them fit to be remixed with the fluids accumu- lated in great abundance about the feat of the pain, and thus to facili- tate their expulfion through all the natural channels of excretion. No- thing can be more eafily proved than that thefe diforders proceed from want of motion, nothing is more evident than that they are relieved by an increafe of it ; and I fhall now proceed to fhew that increafe of mo- tion will alfo prevent them. The rich, over whom the gout more particularly exerts its dominion, living in the midft of idlenefs and luxury, feem to be afFe&ed with a demi-palfy ; though they are in poffeffion of the loco-motive faculty, th.y do not put this power into adion ; the law of labour feems not to have been impofed upon them, at leafl: it is become a habit with them to elude it. Thefe beings are therefore almofl: reduced to that radical kind of motion which is independent of the will ; the other kind which is fubjed: to its influence, and which ought to compleat the efFeds of the former, fo as to give the repairing fubftances the neceflary degree of ela- boration to maintain health, is never fufficiently exerted by them to ob- tain this efted. The imperious call of want, which urges this iecond kind of motion, is never heard by them, and deprived of this falutary incitement, they live in a ffate of indolence, the fweets of which are defervedly embittered by their eftcds. With thefe Sybarites, accuftomed to high living, motion is, in general, not fufficiently exerted, to give to the quantity of crude materials con- ftantly admitted into the courfe of the circulation, a degree of clabora- 6 tionMOTION AND - REST. 21 t'ion perfect enough to form none but proper nutritive juices, and to ex- pel the remains of thofe that have been fpoiled by time and friction r from which, it neceffarily follows, that there muffc be fome depraved hu- mours remaining. Thefe being depofited upon certain parts, produce in them difeafes more or lefs acute, and more or lefs dangerous, in propor- tion to the difference of the texture and fenfibility of thofe parts. Thefe depofits ufually taking place in the feet, the wrifts, and the knees, form the gout, which, as we fee, is the evident confequence of motion not being fufficiently exerted to keep up that fluidify of the humours which conftitutes health. If old people be more toimented with the gout, it is becaufe gluttony and indolence ufually increafe in an advanced age, and that at a time when the fupplenefs of the parts and the diameter of the lymphatic veflels are diminifhed, circumftances which contribute to en- courage thofe depofits of cretaceous matter that are the evident caufe of this difeafe. Young men, though rich and voluptuous, are exempt from the gout. For, belides the natural fupplenefs of the fibres in early life, the faculty of motion is excited in them by luch a variety of paflions, that it fupplies that adlion which want renders neceflary in lefs fortunate perfons. The game of tennis, dancing, hunting, fencing, and riding, are exercifes which prevent the bad effects of the want of motion among perfons of- this defcription ; but, at the age of thirty, thefe wholefome exercifes no longer make a part of their plan of amufement. On the contrary, their prefent games fcarce require that they fhould fpeak or move their fingers ; and accordingly the gout was never fo general as at prefent, even at a time of life when it was formerly unknown. It is evident from what has been faid, that want of motion is the principal caufe of this difeafe ; the work of nature, in relieving its paroxyfms, al- lows us no room to doubt that the falutary crilis which diffipates them is owing to an increafe of motion. This muff therefore certainly be the heft method of refilling or preventing the gout, and the indications which diredl the employment of it in the cure of this difeafe, are too precife to be miflaken. Befides, experience has fo frequently eflablifhed E the2 a ON THE EFFECTS OF the efficacy of this method, that it would be almoft ufelefs to bring facq, in fupport of the truth of this albert ion ; yet as thefe carry with them complete conviflion, and as they are the touchftones of juft or falfe leafoning, I fhall produce fomc inftances, in which this mode of relief has been employed with a fucccfs fo pointed, that it is impoflible we fhould not diftinguifh the vicwrs of nature in the ufe of it0o). A man who had led a very a&ive life till he was thirty years of ager was, at that period, engaged in a fedentary employment. A few years after he felt fome flight attacks of the gout which feized him every fix months. Thefe became afterwards fo fharp and fo lafting, that at fifty years of age he was cruelly tormented with it. The fits lafted five or fix ' weeks, and returned three or four times in the year; neither had the remedies he had tried at different times procured him any l'enfible reliefs The feet, the wrifts, and the knees were the ordinary feats of the dif- eafe, which, at fifty five years of age, notwithftanding he led a very fober life, had reduced him to a very miferable ftate. Being ftronsjv perfuaded that the painful life he had experienced for twenty vears paft, was owing to the little exercife his employment admitted of, he purcha- fed at that time a garden out of town, fully determined to be his own gardener. 'As he delighted in flowers, he employed himfelf in the cul- tivation of them, and laid a plan of hard work for himfelf during leve- ral hours every day. Me kept his refolution, fo that for a number of years there were few days in which he was not obliged to change his linen feveral times in the day, in confequence of the profufe iweats lie. was thrown into by his ftrong and continued exercife. The firft year he felt a change which encouraged him to proceed ; and ^it the fecond year, found and quiet fleep, a conftant appetite, and an uncommon agility, the infeparable attendants on health, fucceeded to all thofe infirmities he had before experienced. He arrived to the age of fourfeore without bearing any marks of decrepitude, and ftill continued to work in his garden, even in winter time. But a fore leg, in confe- quence of a burn, having confined him for a long time to his room in the23 MOTION AND REST. the year 1776, he has finee been attacked with a terrible jaundice, which has terminated in a herpes that may probably be hill difiipated by mo- tion and the labour he is beginning to refume. A young man, very fond of tennis, and who frequently indulged in this exercife, having quitted it almod entirely for feveral years, to fol- low a profeffion which was rather inconfident with this kind of difiipa- tion, was feized at the age of thirty tvith pretty Imart fits of the gout, and which returned at very fhort intervals. Thefe fits became more and more continued and painful, notwithfhuiding he obferved the mod; regular conduft and the drifted regimen. I advifed him to play again at tennis, to the leaving off of which I attributed the appearance of this difeafe at an age when one is ufually exempt from it. He contrived his bulinefs fo as to be able, three or four times a week, to allot two or three hours to this exercife. This fucceeded at fird in lengthening the intervals of the fits, and diminifhing their violence, and at lad made them totally difappear; for during fome years pad he has not felt any return, of them. It would be needlefs to alledge any other fafts to prove the necedity of motion in the cure of the gout ; the indances which edablifh the advantage of this method are too numerous and too well known to leave us any room to doubt of the propriety of employing it in this cafe bO „ The rheumatifm differs from the gout merely in the feat of the ob-> druftion, which takes place in the aponeurofes of the mufcles in their fheaths, and in the drainers of thofe membranes that furround and con- neft them. This obdruftion being, as in the gout, the effeft of an evident infpidation of the lymph that is conveyed through the channels of thefe parts, motion mud neceflarily be alfo the proper agent in this cafe. It mud therefore be employed to redore thefe inlpidated humours to the degree of fluidity required for their free circulation. Accordingly we fee, that if the perfons who are attacked with the rheumatifm, have refolution enough to bear the very fliarp pains always occadoned upon fil'd moving the part affefted, they foon contrive to get rid of them en- E 2 tirely*4 ON THE EFFECTS OF tirely by very powerful and long-continued exercife, which putting the part affected in adtion, produces in it a falutary agitation and attenua- tion of the humours forming the painful obftrudtion(,2). Even in tliofe cafes where the pains are too violent, and mul'cular adtion too much be- numbed to admit of vigorous motion in the part affected, the heft cura- tive means are {fill to be chofen from among thofe that Simulate the l'o- lids and fluids of the part. Thefe are, either warm or cold bathing, which, befides facilitating the attenuation of the humours by the introduction of aqueous particles that may poffibly be conveyed fo as to mix with them, do alfo excite motion in them ; cold baths, by incrca- fing the tone of the folids; warm ones, by the rarefaction they produce in the fluids. Stupes add to thefe effects, already fo efficacious in tliem- l'elves, the power of breaking mechanically the inlpiffated juices by the fhocks and ftrokes they carry along with them. The juices are, as it were, kneaded by this agent, which from its foft, mild, and uniform method of adting, is much to be preferred to the other external methods em- ployed to produce this effedt ; fuch, for inftance, as dry frictions upon the parr, flagellation with nettles, &c. — If thele kinds of means are fometimes attended with fuccefs, it is evident this rnuft happen by their conveying into the painful part a degree of motion fit to attenuate the humours that formed the obftrudlion, and induce them to a change of place. This reafoning may be extended to thofe large bliflers lucccls- fully applied to limbs affedted with the rheumatifm ; it is as much by the motion they excite in the part, as by the difeharge of ferum, and the luppuration they occalion, that they produce thofe lalutary efFedts they are often attended with. An anchvlofis appears to be nothing more titan a gradual infpiflation of the fynovia, by which, bones originally defigned to move freely upon one another, become conlolidatcd. The curative indication that prefents itfelf here is to counteract this infpiflation while it is forming, and to reflore the fynovia to its firft ftate of fluidity, when it hath acquired a preternatural confidence which confines and even delfroys the motions it was deflated to facilitate : but what are the means by which this indi- cationMOTION AND REST. *5 Cation is to be fulfilled ? Which is the kind of remedy that'experience hath determined to be the mof fuccefsful in thefe cafes ? It is the mo- tion of the parts compofing the joint, which by afting upon the thick- ened fynovia, by rubbing and triturating it, ref ores to it that fluidity it had lofl. The indications for the ufe of this method are indeed fo pointed in this fort of anchylofis, that it cannot be fupplied by any other ; but there are other kinds of this difeafe in- which there are evidently counter-indica- tions that oppofe themfelves to the application of it; and in others again, there is as much precaution as Ikill neceffary to direct the employ- ment of it. A ha fly review of the chief caufes of this diieafe will be fufficient to direct the proper application of motion in it's cure. The anchylofis may be the effedt of too long-continued reft, of too great inadtion of the bones defined ufually to move on one another, and then it will be fufficient to re fore by degrees thele bones to their ordi- nary motion, either by the adtion alone of the mufcies that are inferted into them, fupported with a degree of firmnefs neceflarv to overcome the painful fenfation of the firf motions, or by increafing that adtion by external powers. It feldom happens, however, that inadtion alone, even though continued for a confiderable length of time, can produce this difeafe. Its mofl ufual caufes are, the difeafed fate of the bones, either on their articular furfaces, or in the neighbourhood of the articulations, the inflammation and tenfion of the ligaments that frengthen them, and of the mufcular aponeurofes that cover them. It may be obferved in- deed, that in the difeafed fate of the articular furfaces of the bones, the anchylofes may frequently be confidered as the refource of nature for the prefervation of a limb (he is not willing to lofe ; and in thefe cafes we ought to be fo far from refifing the progrefis of this diieafe, that our art muf be exerted in encouraging it by every pofible means h3). It may here well be prefumed that motion is not to be employed to bring about this falutary end, as I final! ffiew hereafter, when i ffiall expofe the indi- cations which direct the ule of ref in furpical complaints. But fettintr afide thefe circumf ances in which an anchylofis may be confidered as an advantage, motion muf be the curative medium mof to be depended upon N /ON THE EFFECTS OF i 6 upon in tlicl'c cafes, if we employ it with all the precautions required bv the difference of circumftances. We may even have rccourfe to it with confidence in thole cafes which feem more particularly to forbid the ufe of it. Fractures of the joints, for infiance, by occafioning an extravafation of bony matter into their cavity, feem at iirft fight to make an anchylo- iis unavoidable, and yet, in thefe cafes, motion employed with Ikill may frequently prevent it. To be convinced of this from theory, we have only to trace the mechanifm by which this extravafation is made in mod circumftances. If the bones, fractured at their extremities in the joints, have not experienced any evident change of pofition, or if they have been replaced in their original fituation by the Surgeon’s art, the bonv matter exfuding from the lurtaces ot the folution of continuity, tends, as in other inftances, to confolidate the divided parts, in order to reftore them to their functions. It is true, indeed, that the bony matter, being extravafated, exceeds the level of the parts brought into contact, and that as it thickens, it forms a folid mafs on the divided part, and that this mat's, on the fide of the cavity of the joint, mud be lb much the more contiderable, as the bony matter mud have met with lets opposition in its growth ; but it by no means follows that an anchylofis mud be the ne- ceflary confequencc of this. Motion may be employed with advantage to prevent this accident, and the bony projection which threatens the joint with it, indicates, by its very formation, the employment of this method, which can never aft more effectually than while the callus is fiill foft. For this real'on, when we may prcl'ume that the fractured pieces have begun to acquire a certain degree of coherence among them- fielves, by means of the bony matter that mutt confolidate them, it will be neccfiary to give gentle motions to the joint, and to repeat them as of- ten as circumftances will permit. It is evident that the projection of the callus, which is (till yielding, will be retrained, and that at length the play of the articulation will be perfectly reftored. Suppofmg however that the projection had acquired a contiderable degree of confidence, we mud not, on that account, abandon the joint to the anchylofis that may threaten iMOTION AND REST. if threaten it. This circumftance can only render the ufe of motion more painful and more difficult ; but by perfevering in the ule of it, and by combining it with that of diluting and relaxing applications, calculated to diminiffi the force of the p refill re of the articular furfaces one again ft another, we fhall at length fucceed, if not in levelling entirely the bony projection, at leaf! in rendering it fo fmooth and poll died that the motion of the joint fhall no longer be impeded by it. What is thus dictated to us by reafon, 1 have obferved more than once confirmed in fradlures of the olecranon, which is evidently adapted to the articulation of the arm with the fore-arm. If an anchylofis be fre- quently the confequence of this accident, this is lefs to be afcribed to the nature of the fraCture, than to the want of (kill in thofe who treat it. It is true, that if, in this cafe, we put the fore-arm in a bent fitua- tion, and in a fling, the olecranon being then fixed by the extenfor muf- cles that are inferted into it, while the reft of the cubitus forms a right angle with the humerus, there will neceflarily remain a confiderable in- terval between the two fractured pieces. In thefe cafes, the exfudation from the fraCtured lurfaces being difcharged into the cavity of the arti- culation, and afterwards confolidated there, would, from this reafon alone, deftroy the power of its motion ; but even if this exfudation, without ftretching into the cavity of the joint, fliould only fill up the fpace between the cubitus and its apophvfis, and that fimply by mould- ing itfelf on the correfpondent part of the humerus, the anchylofis would no lefs be the neceflary confequence of an addition that fhould have lengthened the natural unciform procefs formed by the olecranon ; for the extremity of this procefs, refting then upon the bottom of the ca- vity that is found in the pofterior part of the humerus, we never can hope to make any extenfion of the fore-arm,' and it muft therefore ne- ceflarily remain in the ftate of fleCtion in which it hath been placed^; but if, inftead of ufing this manoeuvre, fo oppofite to all the rules of art and of common fenfe, we keep as much as poffible the fractured parts in a ftate of approximation, by a conftant and moderate extenfion of the fore- arm^, and by a fuitable bandage, then the exfudation which proceeds from 4 the \?8 ON THE EFFECTS OF tiie correfponding bony fur faces, as it condenl'es, does nothing more than unite the olecranon to t.he body of the ulna from whence it was lb- parated, and that without any viable increafe of length. In this cafe, tne callus would only form a trifling proj.fli n on the flue of the a 'i *u- lation, which might; however, coniine the motion of the joint, ). i: were not kept under. But if we give the joint a little motion t ■ \ u the tvventy-fmh day +) after the accident, before the callus be com; .. th hardened, and it we increafe this motion by degrees, this pr >’ give way, and in a few months the joint will recover all its m . ■ have been convinced by fome cafes of this kind in which 1 have fun the praflice here laid down. It may, however, be obferved, that after the olecranon has been united by the fkilful methods required in fractures of that bone, anv difficulty of motion that may exifl, may proceed cither from the mafs of the callus on the fide of the articulation, or from the projection of one of the pieces of the hone itfelf, by rcafon of the difficulty, not to fay the impoflibility, of keeping them on a level. But whether it be that thefe caufes afl feparatcly, or in combination, to reftrain the motion of the joint, we may readily conclude from what has been faid, that mo- tion is the only power that can be employed with advantage, in removing thefe inconveniences, and in reftoring the joint to its original freedom. This is effected, at length, by polifhing and wearing down, either the hardened callus itfelf, or the bony particles projecting in the cavity of the joint. The only circumftance to he attended to is, that in the lalt cafe, as the firft motions muft neceffiirily he more painful and difficult, it will he proper to he more careful in the employment of them, than in the other inftance. If motion he almofl: a certain remedy againfl an anchylofis threatening the joint in moft of the fractures incident to it, we are not to expert lefs effeCl from this remedy, when a rigidity is likely to enfue from a com- pound fra flu re, with fplintering of the hone, in the neighbourhood of an articulation. As the ftilfnefs of the joint, in this cafe, can only pro- ceedMOTION AND RES T. *9 -cei from an SnfpiiTation of the fynovia, and from a rigidity, the liga- ments and aponeurofes furtounding the joint may acquire, motion may be confidered here too as the means to prevent an anchylofis. But if we coitlider that the Bate of the parts which leads us to apprehend this in- convenience, is the confequence of their ten hen, inflammation, and dif- pofition to fuppuration, as alfo of the long inactivity they mull be kept in, in order to accomplifh the firfl indication which is the cure of the fraCture, we fhall conclude that the anchylofis, in this cafe, is but a fe- condary accident which muft not be attended to, at leaf, for fome time. Motion is undoubtedly the proper remedy in this cafe too ; but previous to our having recourfe to it, it is neceflary that the confolidation of the bony parts fhould be confiderably advanced ; and that the inflammation and irritation of the ligaments and aponeurofes fhould l'o far be overcome, that motion may not produce in them a p>ainful exteniion which might tend to excite the inflammation afrefh, and to form abfeefles in the part. As foon as thefe chief indications are obtained, we mull call in the allifb- ance of motion to prevent the anchylofis with which the joint is mena- ced. If the articulation be Bill fufceptible of an evident degree of mo- bility, its own motion alone excited and increafed by degrees, will, in time, reBore to the ligaments and aponeurofes their flexibility ; and to the fynovia its ordinary fluidity. But if the fynovia have acquired too much confBence, and that the infpiflation of the fluids which fill the canals of the ligaments and aponeurofes, fhould have made them too rigid to admit of being put in motion without caufing very great pain, we muB then avoid perfiBing too obBinately in the ufe of this method.. I have feen confiderable fwellings and ecchymofes brought on after an inconfiderate ufe and exertion of motion under fuch circumfiances ; thefe have made it neceflary to poflpone for a long time the ufe of this effica- cious method, which had failed only from the negleCt of precautions proper to have infured its fuccels. In thefe cafes the motion of the joint muA be prepared and preceded by oily and faponaceous embrocations^1^, by warm and emollient baths, and elpecially by Bupes. Thefe remedies, by tranfmitting a gentle motion among the infpiflated juices, and even by beginning their liquefaction through means of the penetrating particles F theyON THE EFFECTS OF 3° they may convey to them, are capable of fupplying the ligaments and aponeurofes, and are therefore excellent means to be employed previous to that motion which is to reflore to the joint its free play, and get the better of the anchylufis. Stiffne'fles of the joint which continue for a long time after fprains, luxations, and fractures, even at a dift.mce from the articulations, arc alio produced by an infpiflation which is the effect cither of the com- pelled flagnation of the fluids during the obftruction of the parts afiedted, or of the continued reft to which they have been confined in order to fulfil the moft urgent indications which thefe diforders prefent. In thefe cafes too, motion either alone, or combined with other auxiliary me- thods I have before mentioned, is the effectual remedy to remove thefe rigidities(,<5). In a word, whatever may be the diftant caufe from which thefe accidents may be produced, their apparent caufe confifts always in infpifl'ated juices, which cannot be reftored to their flrft ftate of fluiditv without the affiftance of motion ; either internal motion excited- by re- medies adapted to the caufe of the infpiflation, or external motion pro- duced by mufcular adtion. From the fadts already recited, which are well known to all the pro- feflion, we are fufficiently authorized to conclude, that wherever there is any difeafed infpiflation, we muft have recourfe to motion to corredt it; but other fadts will give the higheft degree of evidence to this afler- tion. Every thing perfuades us that the fcrophula, for inftance, one of thofe difeafes in which this infpiflation is moft remarkable, is produced by want of motion in the perfons who are affedted with it. Infancy, which is ufually the feafon of this difeafe, is indeed the time when motion is moft exerted in the machine ; but it is not with- out neceftity that this principle is carried fo high at this period. The nature of the food of a new-born infant, the rapid growth he is to ex- perience, the extent of furface he prefents, in proportion to his fize, to the fluid in which he lives ; all thefe circumftances require in him a 3 muchMOTION AND REST. 31 much greater degree of motion than at any other age. The only non- rilhment nature has provided for him, muff be of an acefcent quality, fo that to keep the fibres in a Bate of fupplenefs favourable to their ex- tenfion, a confiderable degree of motion was required in this living ma- chine, in order to animalize, as it were, this kind of food, and to ex- tract from it the materials proper for the growth of the body. This fame motion was not lefs neceffary to fupply a degree of heat that fhould enable the child effectually to fupport the frefhnefs of the air with which he is furrounded. For thefe reafbns, the contractions of the heart and arteries in earlieft infancy are extremely frequent, and mufcular motion very quick. At this period then, as at every other time of life, there exifts no greater degree of motion than is requifite for the wants of the animal oeconomy ; and therefore this principle cannot be interrupted or exerted above its powers without producing an alteration in its effects. While the child draws from his mother’s bread: the food nature has al- lotted to him, while he freely enjoys the faculty of moving as much as his mufcular powers will allow, his fluids are neither altered by infpifla- tion nor diflolution, and he remains in health. But if for this whole- fome food we fubftitute one that is made with unfermented flour, and if this aliment, pernicious in itfelf, be alfo given to excefs, the child will not then enjoy a degree of motion fufficient to give the nutritive juices, extracted from fuch glutinous food, the elaborations neceffary to maintain health. Hence will at length refult a fault of infpiffation, the progrefs of which will be more rapid, as external or mufcular motion (hall have been more confined by fwaddling cloaths, and therefore lefs able to fecond the effects of that motion which is primary and effential to life. Under thefe circumftances nature feems indeed herfelf to have re~ courfe to motion in order to reftore the humours to their proper fluidity. Reftleflhefs, agitations, pain, and fever, which befpeak an increafe of motion, are fo many means Ihe often employs with fuccefs in children to refill the accident property of their fluids, and the infpiffation produ- ced by it. But thefe means are far from being always, effedlual ; there F .2 arcON THE EFFECTS OF are children who periffi fpeedily after fuch exertions ; others, after having languifhed a long time under obflrudtions of the mefaraic glands, die at laft of the fuppurations that are formed in them : others again, aie feizcd with obftrudtions in the glands of the neck, or other external ligns which indicate a fcrophulous habit. This dileale, as terrible from the difficulty of cure as from the accidents that attend it, feems, from the fvmptoms that manifeft it, to be produced by too great a degree of acef- cency in the humours, which not being fufficiently agitated to correct this difpofition, an infpiflation of the lymph is produced, which forms the charadteriftic of the fcrophula. Nature feems of herfelf to point out the remedy, by manifefting an increafe of motion in all the efforts fhe makes to counteract this difeafe. It is therefore by conlulting this wife diredlrefs, who never deceives us when we underfh-uul what lhe intends, that we may prefume, that motion is one of the means, the efficacy of which is mod to be depended upon in the cure of fcrophulous complaints. Fadts, far from invalidating our ideas upon this head, feem to add a frefli degree of probability to them. Do we not indeed obferve, that all dif- folvents of the lymph (fuch as Rotroris) compofed of alkaline, ablorbent, and gently irritating fubftances(l7); that repeated purgatives, that mineral and faponaceous waters, &c., which fucceed heft in the treatment of this difeafe ; in a wrord, that all thefe remedies adt no otherwile than by increafing the motion in the machine to a higher degree than before their ufe ? Some of them too, it is evident, tend to fubdue the acefcent qua- lity of the liquids, which is one of the principal caufes of the infpiffa- tjon of the lymph, as much by the motion they excite, as by the alka- line and abforbent particles they contain (,8h The topics alfo applied with fuccefs upon fcrophulous tumours, and diflinguifhed by the name of diffolvents, fuch as the Emplaftrum de Eigo, Diabotanum, &c. ('9), feem to adl no otherwife than by increafing the power of motion in the obffrudled part. Nature herfelf, when (he cannot by her own powers, or with the affiftance of art, diffipate thefe tumours in an infenfible manner, doth fhe not effedt the diffolution of them by calling in the aid of inflammation, and fuppuration (lt>, which is the confe- 2 quenceMOTION AND REST. 33 iquence of it ? Thefe two agents which fhe emplovs to complete her purpofcs, are they any thing more than the produce of an increafe of motion ? But the circumflance which evidently demonftrates the effi- cacy of that principle in the cure of this difeafe, is, that the remedies adapted to it are never more fuccefsful, than when they are combined with flrong and continued exertions of mufcular motion. This is fo true, that with the ufie alone of home common diflblvent, and a few purga- tives adminiftered now and then, joined to that of vigorous exercife taken in the country and in the open air, I have fucceeded in curing feveral young perfons affeded with fcrophulous tumours in the neck, feet, or fingers, lome of which, in the latter inflances, were attended with fif- tulous ulcers and caries of the bones. But thele means muft be con- tinued for a fufficient length of time, to enable the lymph to be reflored to its natural Aate of fluidity, and to be maintained in it ; and during the employment of them, we muff forbid the ufe of milk, and all kinds of acid food. The venereal virus alfo, which, from every circumflance, feems to b^ a coagulater of the lymph, and which bears fome analogy to the fcro- phul i, fince it frequently degenerates into this, appears to require no other remedy than a certain degree of motion excited and kept up for a fuffi- cient length of time to deflroy and annihilate the effefts of this poilon. Mercury ufed in frictions, the aquila alba, the panacea, the fublimate, and all the other preparations of this mineral internally taken, the fudo- rific woods, &c., do not exhibit in their effects any thing elfe but an in- creafed degree of motion throughout the machine. Nor can the volatile alkalis, propufcd by Mr. Perilhe^1), be ufed upon any other principle in the cure of this complaint. Nature feems not to proceed any otherwile in her efforts to deftrov the virus, and to prevent its being communicated to the general mafs, when it hath originally been confined to fome part. Inflammation, and pain that attends it, and fuppuration, which is the effeff, are the means fhe oppofes to the propagation of this terrible dif» cafe. I haveOX THE EFFECTS OF 34 1 have icon gonorrhoeas cpale of themfelves, and venereal buboes, abandoned totally to nature, perfedlv healed after a plentiful iuppura- tion, and the perl'ons a ill died with thele complaints have not afterwards experienced the lead venereal iymptem, though they had net made ule of any mercurial remedy. 1 have l'cen a man radically cured of the moft dangerous venereal fymptoms, for which he was intending to undergo a falivation, at the end of a putrid fever that laded forty days, and the crilis of which was obtained by very copious and long-continued lweats. Mercury and its preparations are not then the only antidote to the ve- nereal virus ; every thing that can exalt the motion of the machine to a certain pitch, and maintain it there for a fufficient time, may be ufed with effect in this cafe to redd the infpiflation of the lymph, and the caufe which produces it. Miafcular motion, as it cannot be continual, is fcarce able to have this ed'ed ; but though it may not, of itfelf, have power to dedrov the virus, it is no lels certain that it may adid in pre- venting the progrels of it. It is from oblerving its good efleds in vene- real afFedions, that I lcruple not to combine it with the ufe of mercurial medicines, which increafe internal motion. I therefore always delire my patients to ufe a great deal of exercife, while I treat them with mercu- rial fridions. Though the weather may be rather cold, I do not confine them to their rooms, and have never had any reafon to repent of this method. There have been lbme patients even, who though they went out every day, and took a long walk, morning and evening, have never had the mouth heated, notwithdanding they had uled as much as eight ounces of ointment in the ulual quantities. The feurvy not being entirely a furgical diforder, ought not, perhaps, to be noticed here ; yet let me be permitted to expole lome ot the phe- nomena this difeafe prelents us with in its various dages ; becaufe they will form, in regard to what has been laid concerning motion and its ef- feds, an additional degree of probability by which it would be difficult not to be convinced. In the fird and l'eccnd periods of this difeafe, every thing indicates too great an infpiflation in the fluids of the perl'ons who areMOTION AND REST. 35 are attacked with it. Latitudes, languor, fwelling and hardnefs of the lower extremities, arc all fymptoms that characterize fuch a hate of the fluids ; and cold and damp weather, inactivity, and the ufe of grofs glutinous food, which are the diflant caufes of this difeafe, can fcarce produce any other kind of vice in the habit. Accordingly in fuch a fltuation, what are the curative intentions, and by what means are they to be fulfilled ? They confift evidently in exciting the tone of the folids, attenuating the fluids, and reftoring them to their ufual fluidity. Inter- nal motion, increafed by certain remedies that have the power of exciting it, and the exertion of external motion, feem to be the proper means of obtaining thefe ends. Now, if we conful.t facts, we (hall find that daily and moderate exer- cife, exerted fo as to bring on a gentle perforation, that the juice of plants which contain a volatile alcali already formed, that the Peruvian and Winter’s bark, that wine and antifcorbutic fyrups compofed of thefe plants and of alcaline falts, that blifters, in a word, are all remedies of remarkable efficacy in the firft and fecond flages of the fcurvy. It hath even been obferved that all the fymptoms that denote this difeafe, have not unfrequently difappeared after a fever continued for a few days. It is evident then that motion is the means employed by nature and by art in oppofing this difeafe ; but to that fate of infpiflation which is the character of the firft and fecond degree of the fcurvy, there frequently fucceeds a ftate of evident diffolution in all the fluids. In this cafe the curative intention and the means of accomplifhing it muft be adapted to the change the difeafe hath undergone. Plot antifcorbutic medicines, and blifters, fo efficacious in the firft and fecond ftages of the fcurvy, be- come prejudicial in this more advanced ftage, in which diffolution hath fucceeded to infpiflation ; and a fever is then the moft dangerous accident that can happen to the patient; for a dillolution carried to its utmoft height, and death which follows it, are the lpeedy confequences of fuch an event. TheOS THE E F F E C T S OF The remedies that fuccetd bed, at this period, are derived from the clais of lubdances which contain a mucilaginous principle, fufc.ptible of a Uighrly acefcent fermentation, calculated to give fome d gree of confidence to the liquids, and to reftorc the folids by degrees to their proper tone. Oranges, lemons, frefh vegetables (lightly acidulated, new bread, ripe fruits, grapes, warm wine, honey, See., are the remedies which feem more particularly to pofiefs this property. Motion, lb falu- tary in the fil'd lfages of t!ie lcurvv, becomes now very dangerous ; for it hath been obferved in the third, and more efpecially in the fourth, flage of this dileafe, that fevcral patients have died of internal haemor- rhages, after having inconfiderately uled exereife which, though mode- rate in itlblf, was dill above their drength ; after having made fome lud- den motion, or after having been only dirred with quicknels, and moved incautioufly from one place to another. But this date of extreme difiblution that the feurvy offers at this period, is leldom found among perfons who live upon land, except in prilons and dungeons, where ina&ion, cold, dampnels, bad food, and affliction, often contribute to carry this dileafe to its highdt period ; for among the common people, even among thofe who live mod poorly, the feurvy feldom fhews us any thing moie than a vice of inlpiffation, againd which external motion, combined with warm antilcorbutics, may be employed with fuccefs. Accordingly in thofe obftruCtions of the* legs, which have a purple cad, with hardnefs, and which are deemed fcorbutic, fo far from its being ncceffary to prelcribe red, as in other obltruCtions of thefe extremities ; exercile, on the contrary, and walking in dry and warm weather, combined with the remedies iuitable to the feurvy, have always appeared to me the mod proper means of relief; and 1 have often obferved that thefe obdruftions were lefs conliderable, and lcls fhining towards the evening, after a good deal ot walking, than two or three hours after the patients had got out of bed. From what has been faid, it appears, that the indications which lead us in the application of motion to the cure of furgical dilorders are evi- dent.37 MOTION AND REST. dent. If we muff attenuate and divide the fluids, if their too great in- fpiffation fhould produce a real difeafe, or form an obftacle to the cure of any one ; motion becomes one of the moll certain curative methods, the efficacy of which is eflablifhed by experience. G SEC-' * • < * *SECTION IL TO SHEW THE INDICATIONS WHICH ARE TO LEAD US IN PRESCRIBING REST FOR THE CURE OF SURGICAL DISORDERS. TP 1 HE effefls of reft and motion being, as we have obferved in the firft part of this eflay, as diametrically oppofite as their caufes, and the too great infpiffation of our fluids affording us a precife indication for the employment of motion, vve might immediately conclude from hence, that whenever it becomes neceffary, in the cure of furgical complaints, to increafe the thicknefs of thefe fame fluids, or any of them, it will be proper to call in the afliftance of reft. This is a very natural confe- quence which fhould feem to point out both the cafes which require the ufe of this method, and the indications which are to lead us in prefcri- bing it. But in order that this confequence maybe admitted, it becomes neceffary to fupport it by fails, which prefent themfelves in great num- bers. In all frailures, for inftance, where the advantages of reft are fo evident, nature leems to require nothing but an infpiffation of fome of G 2 ourON THE EFFECTS OF 40 onr liquids. Is it not by the gradual concretion of a juice originally fluid, that fhe unites in the moll lblid manner, the bony parts that have fuffered a folution of continuity ? Is not this defired effect chiefly brought about by reft, and doth not motion put the greateft impediment to it ? This circumftance is univerfally known, and not contradicted by any fa<ft ; but there are many other cafes, in which nature appears to have the lame views as in fractures, and in which the indications for reft are as precife as in thefe accidents. Thefe cafes, though not unfrequent, require a degree of attention and penetration to diftinguilh them, and it is by taking a review of them, that we fhall find reft to be frequently the moft certain method that art can furnifh to the furgeon who knows how to apply it. In my firft anatomical purfuits, I had feen fome fpines of crooked perfons, that prefen ted three or four dorfal vertebrae, the bodies of which were foldered and confounded together, without having paid any particular attention to this difeafe, and without having refle<5ted on the accidents it might have produced during its continuance; but a patient whom I faw at the Hofpital in 1766, fixed my obfervation upon this ob- ject. Having been violently beaten, at the age of thirteen, by his father, he felt, a few months after, a weaknefs in the fpine, attended with pain and a difficulty of keeping an upright pofture. He at firft walked with great difficulty, and afterwards could not walk without leaning upon a ftick, with his body bent forwards. Thefe firft lymp- toms which continued more than fix months, were followed by a fever accompanied with difficulty of breathing, and pain in the middle of the back, without any very apparent fwelling externally. Thefe fymptoms were relieved by bleeding and other remedies, and the patient leemed re- ftored to his former ftate ; but the difficulty of walking and of lupport- ing himfelf increafed by degrees, and, at length, a tumour was formed towards the lateral and pofterior part of the laft falfe ribs, the increafe of which was very flow, and made no change in the colour of the fkin. This tumour extending itfelf gained the region of the loins, and more than fix months after its appearance, the fkin became inflamed, grew thin, and 6 byMOTION AND REST. 4j by the affiftance of maturating poultices applied to the tumour, a fiftulous. opening was made in it, from whence there iffued, according to the pa- tient’s account, more than a quart of matter as white as milk. This difcharge having continued very plentiful for three months without hopes of cure, the parents, tired with the length of the difeafe, took the refo- lution of fending this young lad to the Hofpital. When he came there he had a fiftulous opening on the right fide of the lumbar region, which furnifhed an ichorous and plentiful difcharge ; a flow fuppuratory fever accompanied, and every appearance feemed to fihew that death would foon terminate this diforder. A pledgit of loft ointment only was put upon the fiftulous orifice, and the difeafe was left to nature. I frequently faw this patient, who being better fed, and more attended to than at home, began to recover a little from the deplorable ftate to which he had been reduced. He particularly kept very quiet in his bed, and his fpine was then incurvated with an evident projeftion outwards, towards the laft dorfal vertebrae. About two months after he came into the Hofpital, the matter which oozed from the fiftulous opening, grew thicker and lefs plentiful, the countenance appeared better, the pulfe lefs frequent, and he began to give fome hope of recovery. This hope was more confirmed fix weeks after, for the difcharge was ftill leflened, and the patient began to feel fome degree of ftrength in the fpine. Two months after this laft period, the fiftulous orifice was clofed, and the pa- tient began to walk with a ftick ; but he was crooked, and feemed to have loft much of his former height. From the accidents this patient had undergone, and the deformity the lpine had contracted during the courfe of his difeafe, I imagined that fome of the dorfal vertebrae had been affected with caries ; that the re- mains of them after being confounded together, and after having been in a ftate of granulation, had at length acquired a degree of folidity l'uffi- cient in fome fort to fupply the bodies of thefe bones. I could not but confider reft as having been the chief promoter of this falutary end ; and42 ON THE EFFECTS OF and lubfequent fadts appear to have completely confirmed my con;cbtures on this point. t Firft, the patient who had been the fubjedt of the preceding obfer- tion, and whom I had always kept within my notice, having been feized in i 769 with a peripneumony of which he died, I was allowed to in- fpedt the body, and my firft care was to take notice of the diborders the fpine had experienced three years before. I found, as I fufpedted, feve- ral vertebrae, the bodies of which were confounded with each other; thefe were the ninth, tenth, and eleventh, of the dorfal vertebrae, which had loft at leaft half of their longitudinal dimenfions, while their fpinal procefl'es which had not buffered the leaft alteration, formed a projedtion and a remarkable convexity outwards. This firft part of my conjedtures being verified, I have negledted no opportunity of informing mvfelf, what fhare reft might have had in thefe fort of cures. Accordingly I have queftioned all deformed perlons, whenever I could do it with propriety, and defired them to give me an account of the accidents that had hap- pened to their fpine previous to its deformity. Thofe who are become fo, merely from a lateral projedtion of this column, without having had any colledtion of matter during the growth of this projedtion, or after it was formed, have fcarce complained of any thing more than a gradual weaknefs of the part affedted, and have never been obliged to keep from motion entirely. They have almoft ail been able to rife out of bed at all times, and even to walk with a ftick without experiencing any very acute pains. But thofe in whom marks of former abfceffes were to be obferved, who in fome fmall part of the fpine have an evident projedtion and convexity outwards, have all been obliged to keep their bed for feve- ral months, fometimes for whole years ; and it was never till after a long- continued reft, that the fpine began to recover, at the part affedted, a fufficient- degree of .lolidity to allow them to fupport thcmlelves and to walk. If reft, fuch as it might be, without being fubjedted to any rule, hath produced good effedts in thefe cafes, we may readily conceive that it would43 MOTION AND REST. would have been attended with much greater advantage, had it been prefcribed and employed with difcernment ; hill however this kind of difeafe prefents us with precife indications to determine the ufe cf it. It may even be prefumed, that it would prove one of the mod; certain means that could be employed to prevent deformities of the fpine^1), for it is not at the time this column dilcovers a tendency to projedlion, that we ought to leave it opprefled by the weight of the fuperior parts which it fhould naturally fuftain. We fnould wait, till by reft and a horizontal pofition, the pieces that compofe the column {hall have loft, by the ufe of proper remedies, that morbid ftate of foftnefs which had difpoled them to be thrown out. Thefe two means, of reft and a horizontal pof- ture, are equally indicated whether the progrefs of the diforder be aflifted by a weaknefs of the ligaments connedting the vertebrae, or by the adtion of the mufcles. But thefe unions of the vertebrae, after a greater or lefs deftrudtion of their bodies, which we have obferved to happen in the dorfal vertebrae, may alfo take place in the lumbar vertebrae ; and might not reft contribute to effect this falutary purpofe in cafes of caries with which the vertebrae of the loins are fo frequently affedted ? Let us con- fult fadts, that we may know how far this remedy is to be depended upon in the cure of fo terrible a difeafe. I have feen many of thefe carious vertebrae, and the death of ail tnofe * who have been attacked with them, feems to proclaim that they are an incurable complaint. But before we lay down this dreadful prognoflic, let us trace the difeafe throughout its progrefs, and let us confider the phcenomena it prefents to us during its long continuance ; thefe may fug- geft l'ome ideas from whence a more comfortable prognoflic may be de- duced, and which future fadts may perhaps juftify. We frequently fee, after a fall on the buttocks which (hall have occafioned a concuffion in the lumbar vertebrae, after a blow received on thefe parts, after a violent and painful effort made to raife too heavy a load &c., after fuch acci- dents, I fay, we frequently fee that the perfons who have buffered them, complain, fome time after, of a dull pain in the region of the loins, with a difficulty of walking, which increafing gradually, without ever caulnw' OON THE EFFECTS OF 4 + caufing any very acute pain, ends, at length, in ib great a weaknefs of the lpine, that they are no longer able to fupport themfelves, and are obliged to keep in bed. At this period, which is often nine or ten months after the accident, we generally begin to perceive a tumour which makes its appearance either underneath Poupart’s ligament, or on the fide of the great ifchiatic foramen, and which increafes flowly with- out being painful to the touch. When the tumour hath acquired a cer- tain lize, and that the matter which forms it is diffidently advanced towards the (kin, a manifeft fluctuation is obferved in it, which feems to furnifh a pofitive indication for the opening of it^A The Surgeon who makes this opening, and who fees that he has given iflue to a great quantity of matter, confined for a long time in fwellings of this kind, congratulates himfelf upon an event which he thinks can- not but turn out for the good of his patient; but the patient, who for fome months pad had experienced no evident degree of fever, who fuf- fered but little, who had perhaps preferved his appetite, who flept, and who had complained of no other fymptom but that he could not keep his back upright, is far from being relieved by this operation, at lead if he be, the relief is not of long continuance; for the matter forming the tumour, which at the time of the opening was white as milk and with- out fmell, foon contraCls a confiderable dench, a fever comes on, the pulfe becomes quick and fmall, and the patients pretty frequently die towards the thirteenth dayf'd The body is afterwards opened, when a caries of two or three of the lumbar vertebrae, and often of part of the os facrum, prefents itfelf to the view; and after this difeovery, the Sur- geon is far from imputing to his own management the fpeedy death of the patient.* It is proper, however, to obferve, that this patient had lived feveral months, without any confiderable inconvenience, with this caries, and * Many of tliefe and fubfequent obfervations have been adopted by Mr. Justamond, in his ejfay cn abfecjfes, as containing that gentleman’s entire fentiinents on the fubjedh E. withMOTION AND REST. 45 with this tumour though it contained a large collection of matter: his ftate would not even have been changed fo fuddenly, if an opening had not been too precipitately made. We fhall be convinced of this by at- tending to what happens when thefe tumours are left to nature ; if they bur ft, the opening is made much later, and it is only at this period that patients are feized with any alarming Iymptoms, and that too in a much lefs degree than after the opening has been made by art‘'Aft The reafon of this is certainly becaufe nature procures no more than a very fmall iffue to the matter. If the patients then die, they perifin much later than in the other inftance. This difference in the event teaches us at leaft that we rauft not meddle with thefe tumours, that we mull apply nothing to them to haften their opening, lince nature appears to diiap- prove of their burfting, as a termination that is not ufually according to her wifhes. But here lome one perhaps may fay, that a dileafe of fo ter- rible a kind is beyond the refources of art and the efforts of nature. Let us beware of deciding this matter fo lightly ; and of aftigning limits to nature which (he hath not prel'cribed to herl'elf; for iince we have in- ftances of caries of the dorfal vertebrae cured by her aftiftance alone, why fhould not her power be extended to the cure of caries of the lumbar ver- tebrae, if her operations were not difturbed by improper meafures r At leaft the following is a faCt which feems to prove, that this difeafe is not beyond her power of relief. A young woman of twenty-two years of age, after having fallen on the bottom of her back, down a ftaircale, felt, for a confderable while, a pain, more or lefs acute, in the region of the loins, and was feized with a gradual weaknels in that part, which, in a Ihort time, prevented her from walking, and even from lupporting herl'elf; at which period, fhe applied to me. Revolving in my mind thefe Iymptoms and the caufe that had produced them, I imagined her cafe to be a difeafe of the lum- bar vertebrae, and the beft means of cure that could be prefcribed were reft, and lying a bed. I explained to her the imminent danger of her lituation, and engaged her punctually to follow my advice. This file did very exaftly, by going to bed and remaining there conftantly, taking H care46 ON THE EFFECTS OF care to exert as little motion as pofiible, agreeable to what I had recom- mended. Not a ithftanding thefe precautions the dileafe continued to ad- vance ; the weaknefs of the loins, and the pain fhe felt there upon mo- tion, were accompanied with a tumour that began to make its appear- ance under Poupart’s ligament, which became, in procels of time, as large as ones Fift, and which at length dilcovered an evident fluctuation. Warned by the melancholy end of all thole in whom fuch tumours had been opened, 1 carefully avoided applying any thing that might haften the burfting of it, and abftained ftill more rehgioufly from opening it with a cutting inftrument. This tumour, with fluctuation, after having acquired its full frze, remained nearly in the fame ftate during four months, and at that period began to be imperceptibly diftipated, lo that in four months afterwards, there remained not the leaft veflige of it; the patient felt from one week to another, that the fpine was recovering its former ftrength ; fhe began to fit upright in her bed, while her back was iupported; fhe then made a fhift to walk with a flick, and was at length capable of walking alone and unlupported with as much firmnefs and confidence as ever; but the happy termination of this dileafe w-as owing to her perfevering for near a twelvemonth in keeping her bed, and in a ftate of reft. Tliis is one of thofe furprizing cafes that feem to be an open page prefented to the practitioners of our art, in which nature invites them to meditate her w'alks, and teaches them to do nothing that may difturb her intentions. She fhew's us here a large collection of matter, to the evacuation of which, in conformity to the principles received, we fhould have proceeded as loon as the fluctuation hod been evident, apprehend- ing left a longer confinement of it fhould produce mifehief. And yet we lee that this fame matter, after having been collected for feveral months in a diftinCt cavity, has been received again into the courfe of the circulation without occalioning the leaft accident; and that the prin- cipal difeafe pioduced by it has been cured, without the concurrence of art, otherwife than in preferibing reft, already fo loudly called for in this iuftance, by that fame nature who has directed the cure <lK Inftead of 3 ftlently47 MOTION AND REST. filently admiring fuch a phenomenon, it is the province of a man, intent upon the improvement of his art, to endeavour to give fuch an explana- tion of it as {hall not be dilavowed by nature, whofe interpreter he is to be. Let us confider what this dileafe exhibits to us in the firfl: inflance. A difturbance of the organization in the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, by means of a fhock conveyed to them, or a violent divulfion of the ligaments that unite them. The {welling of the parts being the confe- quence of thefe firfl: accidents, and a flow inflammation coming on, this at length caufes a fuppuration and abfcefs, the feat of which is in the neighbourhood of the parts affe&ed. The organization of the bodies of the vertebrae being depraved it follows, that fmall feparations or fcales mufl be thrown off from thefe bones, which is as much effected by the organic aftion of the inflamed parts, as by the matter they fur- nifh. This matter itfelf after having been efficacioufly employed in fe> parating the corrupted from the found parts, is alfo the medium to which nature intrufts the care of expelling and carrying them out ; but this purpofe is effected very {lowly. Thefe bony fragments, of greater or lefs dimenflons, being detached by means of the matter, float in that liquid, to which they prefent a greater extent of furface in proportion as they are more divided. The pus itfelf in which they are fteeped, becomes a menftruum proper to difiolve them, and its quantity increafing in pro- portion to the continuance and extent of the fuppuration that feparates the loofe pieces of bone, it at length makes a paffage for itfelf towards the depending parts which afford the leaf; refiftance. It is generally un- derneath Poupart’s ligament that thefe tumours manifefl themfelves; but the matter is fill fheltered from the external air, and undergoing no change, produces no mifchief in the parts that furroirad it. The frag- ments of bone which float in this quantity of pus, may at length be to- tally diflblved in it, fo as to form a homogeneous mafs, which perhaps may not then in any wile differ from our moft elaborate nutritive jui- ces This being premifed, we need not be aflonifhed, if, at this period, nature, after having employed the pus as a menftruum to diffolve II 2 the<8 ON THE EFFECTS OF the bony fragments to the reparation of which it hath contributed, fhould refume it into the general courfe of the circulation, by taking it up from its cavity, through means of the feveral abforbents that open on the fur- face of that cavity. The return of the matter being then effected as {lowly as its collection was formed, the parts which compol'e the cavitv, mu ft return to their proper ftate as gradually as thev were difturbed from it, without accident and without inconvenience. With refpect to the bones that are primarily affected, and which have almoft adopted the nature of flefh during the long and important procefs of exfoliation, no fooner are they difengaged from thefe loofe pieces, than they begin to recover their folidity ; and if feveral vertebrae, for inftance, have partaken of the injury, they form among themfelves a common mafs of oftifi cation that in fome meafure fupplies their bodies, and termi- nates this important cure, which, as wre may obferve, can only be the w'ork of nature, time, and reft But however advantageous reft may be, however pointed may be the indication for it in the inftances before mentioned, there are ftill other cafes of caries in which this indication is more precife, and lefs liable to be miftaken, than in thofe of the dorfal and lumbar vertebrae ; thefe are the caries affe£ting the joints. The ligaments, or the articulating lurfaces of the bones, often fuffer injuries in their organization, which cannot be removed by the uiual remedies employed in the beginning, in cafes of concuftions, wounds, fradlures, &c.; or wrhere thefe injuries arife from a fault in the habit, they oftentimes will not yield to the remedies proper to refill: the a<ftion of any acrid irritating principle that may have been fixed upon thefe parts. In thefe inftances nature, who always rends to- wards a cure, hath a very great labour to perform, in the prolecution of which we mull be careful not to difturb her by any indifcreet manoeuvres ; in order that this labour may turn to the advantage of the patient, nothing is required but time and reft. Here, as in the other cafes, nature avails herfelf of the ufual refources ; fhe forms pus, by means of which fluid ftie leparates from the whole, the bony, ligamentous, and cartilagi- 2 nousMOTION AND REST. 49 nous parts that are vitiated, from whatever caufe ; and Hie depofits, in the cavity of the joint, thefe fragments, together with the pus that has fepa- rated and conveyed them there. This pus, after having employed more or lefs time in. melting down thefe fragments, might poffibly, as in the inftance above cited, be re-abforbed into the general mafs without incon- venience. My practice has not furnifhed me with any inftance in which nature hath followed this plan in fuch cafes; but the following is the moft ordinary way fhe chufes, and which fhe alfo frequently adopts in caries of the dorfal as well as of the lumbar vertebrae.. The pus-, which till the time of the complete diftolution of thefe frag- ments, feemed to exert no fenlible corroding power upon the texture of the Ikin that confines it, after coming nearer and nearer to this external .covering, at length raifes in it an inflammation of a very finall extent, and by means of the fuppuration fet forward in it, a fiftulous opening is made, which gives vent to a large collection of matter that hath often been from feven to eight months, and more, in forming. By this con- trivance the pus being evacuated by degrees, and the air not having ac- cefs to its cavity, it doth not acquire that ftate of decompofition which makes a deftruCtive principle of it. The irritating faculty of the pus fcarce fhewing itfelf till all the fragments, as well bony, as ligamentous and cartilaginous, are completely melted down, it may reafonably be pre- fumed, that the pus is as it were neutralized by the principles they im- part to it,, and that they are thefe fragments which maintain it in that mild and unCtuous ftate we obferve it to be in before this perfeCt diflolu- tion. What I have laid upon this point becomes fo much the more pro- bable from the circumftance of my having rarely found any bony frag- ments in the matter of thofe abfceffes that have opened of themfelves, and that I have always feen them in thofe collections which have been opened before the time intended by nature. It is plain however, that during a work fo long continued, and fo prudently direfted, nature muft have been in particular want of reft in the part where fhe was carrying on thefe operations, and that motion could only interrupt and trouble them. But if reft have been hitherto ufeful, it is no left neceflary to conduCtON THE EFFECTS OF 53 condud a cure, fo happily and To wifely begun, to its end ; for the bony and cartilaginous lurfaces being now difengaged from all the fragments nature hath chofen to feparate, prefents us with lively and flcfhv granu- lations, which are in that ftate of inflammation proper to contract an ad- hefion with contiguous granulations of the lame kind. This adhefion confolidates itfelf by degrees, and forms at length a compleat union be- tween two bony furfaces, deffined originallv to move one over the other. But in order to obtain this falutary anchylofis, nature requires reft, and reft continued with the greateft perleve ranee. In this great and admira- ble operation, Die hath loft nothing but motion ; and by this indifpenfable iacritice, fhe has preferved a limb with part of its functions, and prevented the mutilation of the machine. The defeription I have here given, is not a romantic idea of phyfiology and pathology; it is a truth founded on fad, of which I can myfelf give many inftances. I have got a preparation by me in which the thigh bone is foldered with the os innominatum, and the polilhed oftilied furface of which, together w'ith the folidity of its union, leave me no room to doubt that the fubjed it had been taken from, had furvived a long time the formation of this anchylofis. Not having known the perfon, nor been acquainted wdth the hiftorv of his cafe, I can only form conjedures upon this fubjed. But the neck of the thigh bone being extremely fhortened, it is to be prelumed, that its anchylofis with the 03 innomina- tum has been produced by a caries, which may have attacked the head of the bone and the cotyloide cavity in which it w’as lodged ; and that this union has been preceded by abfeefles, and other fvmptoms common to a caries of the joints. The following fad will contribute to lupport this opinion. A poor beggar who has an anchylofis of this nature, and in whom I had frequently noticed fears at the upper part of the thigh, as well on the infide as on the outfide, hath allured me, that after a fall upon the great trochanter, he had for a long time fullered extreme pains, which had been at length terminated by fucceftive abfeefles, that had kept him inMOTION AND REST. 5* in hofpitals for feveral years, and had frequently brought him into a very dangerous ftate. His thigh, which forms almoft a right angle with the trunk, being evidently much fhorter than the other, there is no reafon to doubt that this effect has been produced by the deftru&ion of the head of the thigh bone, by a caries which nature mud have fucceeded in the cure of, by following the track I have juft been defcribing. But what I have not had an opportunity of obferving myfelf with re- fpeCt to the articulation of the thigh with the os innominatum , I have obferved in articulations of the thigh with the leg, and of the leg with the foot. I have feen in thefe joints, ablcefles attended with caries, which after having made for themfelves, in a long courfe of time, fiftu- lous openings, and after having furnifhed, for years, a difcharge more or lefs plentiful, have at length ceafed to luppurate ; and have left nothing more than a complete union of the articulating furfaces that had been deftroyed. But thefe great cures have all been owing to nature, and art has concurred in them no farther than in preventing every kind of mo- tion, every change of pofture, which might keep up the irritation of the parts affeCted Drefiings feldom, very feldom renewed, and an at- tention to place the limbs at reft between junks, as in fraCtures, have been the only means employed^. I might poftibly have obtained the fame termination in a caries, with an abfcefs, in the articulation of the os humeri with the fcapula, had I not yielded to the temptation of giving vent to a large collection of mat- ter that began to Ihew itfelf by an evident fluctuation. But at that time 1 had not been fufflciently informed by my own miftakes. The event was fatal to the patient, who died of a luppuratory fever, after having fallen into a marafmus ; and though on examining the part, I found a ca- ries of the head of the os humeri, and of the glenoide cavity of the fca- pula, a difeafe hitherto deemed incurable, I have not been the lefs per- luaded fince, that the operation I had performed, if it had not imme- diately caufed, had at leaft haftened the death of him whom it had been . intendedOX THE EFFECTS OF But 51 intended to relieve. Some fubfcquent fadts have entirely confirmed me in this opinion. A man about fifty years of age applied to me in 1770, with the bones of the w rift fo carious, that in two or three places one might pal's a probe through them, by following fome fuiulous openings that prefented them- felves on the outfjde. The wrift and the ha id, which were oedematous, confiderably 1 welled, and of a dark blue colour, feemed to require ampu- tation fo much the more urgently, as the patient was tormented with a flow l'uopuratory fever; it was even the advice of a man very lkilful in the profellion, not to defer having recourle to this laft refource. Not- withftanding this, I ventured to temporize, and after having applied the ufual dreffings for two days, 1 carefully doled all the fiftulous openings with dreffings that were not irritating, and the hand and wrift being co- vered with comppefl'es dipt in a ballamic and lpiritous embrocation, made with the volk of an egg, oil of rofes, and brandy, I placed them in junks. The parts being thus kept in a perfect and conftant ftate of reft, I made no fcruplc of leaving the firft dreffings on for ten days without a renewal, more efpecially as neither the pain nor the difeharge required them to be removed fooner; and at this time, it was curiolity, rather than any abfolute neceffity, that wras the motive of my doing it. As I found the difeharge lefs in quantity, thicker, and lefs foetid than when the patient was drefled every day. I judged it proper to put oft* the re- moval of the fecond dreffings for twenty days ; and at this period the fwclling of the hand and wrift were half reduced, and every thing feemed to befpeak, as much from the patient’s countenance and pulfe, as from the nature of the difeharge, that hopes might already be entertained of a fortunate termination of this dreadful difeale. In about two months and a half after this, thefe hopes were completely realized ; for at this time all the fiftulous orifices were perfectly cicatrized, and the cure was terminated, with no other inconvenience to the patient, except lols of motion in the wrift, which has not lince prevented him from doing his ufual work (rKMOTION AND REST. S3 But what abfolute reft and unfrequent dreftings have effe&ed in com- bination with nature in the inftances juft mentioned, they have alfo done under my inflection, in two cafes of caries of the articulation of the arm with the fore arm. One of the patients in whom this difeafe had come on after fracture, with fplinters and abfcefs in the joint, had even been fent to me in order that I might amputate the limb ; the bur- geon who had taken care of him for feveral months paft, judging there was no other way of putting a ftop to the fymptoms which attended this caries. And indeed, a very confiderable and cedematous fweliing of the elbow joint and neighbouring parts, a plentiful and offenfive di(- charge, a total lofs of appetite, a flow and luppuratory fever, two ftftu- lous openings that penetrated into the cavity of the joint, and through which a probe being introduced, diicovered a very extenfive caries, were all fymptoms fufficient to juftify the operation. Yet in this cafe, dange- rous as it was, a few months of total reft, joined to long intervals be- tween the dreftings, having aftifted the falutary formation of an anchy- lofis intended by nature, have made all the fymptoms difanpear, and have effected a perfect cure of this difeafe, with no other lofs than that of the motion of the joint. Here are already a number of faffs brought in fupport of what I have advanced, that whenever the infpifiation of any of our fluids is required in the cure of any lurgical difeale, reft muft be called in for this pur- pofe ; but there are other faffs, and of a very different kind from thofe I have here alledged, which confirm the truth of this afiertion. Wounds and ulcers, for inftance, in the cure of which reft is prefcribed with fo much efficacy, do they prefent any other indications for the employing of this method, than fuch as are derived from the neceflitv nature is un- der of giving the gelatinous liquid that oozes from their lurface a fuffi- cient degree of confiftence ? This conliftence is not only neceffary that it may be enabled to lupply, in fome fort, the place of the fkin that is deftroyed, by forming the external fear that completes the cure ; but alfo, that in the part beneath this artificial covering, it may fupply the want of the cellular fubftance, that natural connecting medium of our I parts54 ON THE EFFECTS OF pirts, which lus been deftroyed by the fuppuration. For we are not to imagine that the gelatinous concretion which we obferve in fears, is con- fined to what we fee of it outwardly. Motion, far from a (Tiffing in this good effect, cannot but prevent it, by deftroying the adhefions already begun underneath the part where the fear is to be made, bv putting an impediment to the necefliiry concretion of the gelatinous fluids that are to form it, and even by deffroying it when it has not acquired its utmofl degree of folidity, as we are taught by experience, particularly in the cure of ulcers of the legs. Here the indication for reff to the part af- fected is fo pofitive, that they never can be firmly healed without the help of this method, and that excefs of motion alone, without the con- currence of any other circumftance, often makes them burft out again after they have been completely healed. From hence it may be concluded, that we muff be careful to preferibe reft for the part affedted, during the cure of wounds and ulcers (^. This attention muff even be continued beyond the time of the complete formation of the fear, in cafes where the mufcular parts underneath it are expol'ed to frequent motion ; and it muff be carried fiill farther when thefe fame parts have been affeCled by the difeafe, becaule the gluten, fupplying the place of the cellular lubftance which connected the muf- cular fibres, may not have acquired at firft a fufficient degree of confid- ence, to refifl: the efforts it muff then be expofed to by a ftrong contrac- tion of thefe parts. The following fa£t will evidently prove how ufeful fuch a precaution is in this laft circumftance. A Journeyman Taylor, after having had an abfeefs by congeftion, came to me in 1776 with a fiftulous opening, which wras already of lome continuance in the upper, external, and rather pofterior part of the thigh, about two inches below the great trochanter. I pafled a probe into the fiftula, which furnifhed a large quantity of ferous, and l'omewhat foetid, difeharge, and found that it pafled under the external and anterior rnufcles of the thigh ,pretty near the bone, and that it extended about fix inches beyond its external opening, taking its courfe towards the joint.55 MOTION AND REST. joint. At fird, I apprehended fome caries of the bone, but having met with bony particles in the way of my probe, I thought it proper to treat this fidula by laying it open through its whole extent, by which I might be at liberty to afl; as circum fiances fhould require, if, at the time of the operation, I fhould find that the difeafe was complicated with caries. The fidula being opened through its whole extent, and appearing confi- ned to the ffefhy parts, I fhould only have made a firnpie incilion, had I not been allured from experience, that in two or three days, notwith- standing all my endeavours to the contrary, the bottom of the difeafes would have been concealed from me by the diflention, and even by the re-union of fome of the found divided parts. But forefeeing this incon- venience, which I had before experienced feveral times in fimilar cafes, I removed fome portions of the flefhy parts, and drelTed the wound to the bottom and rather clofe. I continued this precaution during the whole of the cure, which went on as ufual in other firnpie wounds. The fiftula began to fill up, and to confolidate itfelf gradually, the edges of the divided parts funk by degrees, and in two months, formed aimed a complete cicatrix, which feemed to promife a certain and fpeedy cure. But at the time when the fear was juft clofmg, the patient, who had conftantly kept his bed, having rifen and walked more than he ought to have done, felt, a few days after, fome pain; a rednefs appeared through the whole length of the lcar, with a fmall projecting biueifh point in the middle, which having bur ft with my nail, a fmall opening prefented itfelf, from whence there iffued a kind of bloody and ferous difeharge. f thought at fird that this opening was not deep, but having- probed it, I had the chagrin to find, that all I had done was in vain, and that there was now a fiftula aimed as extenfive as when I firft undertook the cafe. This difeovery foon made me fuppofe, that the afiioti of the mufcles, at a time when the fear was yet recent, might poffibly have dedroyed the adhefions formed between the parts that anfwered to the channel of the old fidula. I propofed therefore to confine this adtion, and even to annihilate it in thole parts, till they fhould have acquired a folid coherence I 2 betweenON THE EFFECTS OF 56 between tbemfclves. To effedt this, I placed on the channel of the fif- tula a thick, roll of wetted lint, and applied over it, thick, graduated comprefles, exactly maintained, and ftrongly bound on the part by means of a bandage carefully rolled on. .This precaution, continued for fome time, made me hope that I might cure this complaint without having recourfe to a frefh operation ; but the patient riling out of bed, infteadof uling a bed pan, and the motion he gave to the part loofening the ban- dage, I obtained only a partial fuccefs from it. The fiftula indeed clofcd itfclf, but this was frequently only for a few days, and though it was not lb deep as before, yet ftill the little finus that remained, made me always apprehend a return of the complaint. To get rid of this anxiety, I determined to pal's, for two days, into the finus, a piece of lint impregnated with fome digeftive ointment animated with precipitate. At the end of two days I omitted this tent, and re- newed my bolftering and comprcllion on the whole extent of the finus as before, with the additional precaution of placing the limb in junks and other fupporters, as 1 fhoulcl have done for a fracture of the upper part of the thigh bone, or of its neck. By all thefe attentions, I at length fuc- cecded in obtaining a perfect cicatrix ; but that I might not be expofed to a relapfe, I continued them perhaps beyond the time neceflary to ef- fect my purpofe, chufing rather to life too much precaution in this cafe then to ncglcdt any. By judging from this fa ft, it fhould feem that nothing is required in the cure of finufles, except the contact of the parts which form the channel, and a perfect ltate of reft for as long a time as is neceflary, that they fhould contract folid adhefions between themfelves. Are there not a variety of cures, effefted in thele complaints by exadl and well- maintained comprellions, which confirm this truth ? Even the precau- tions by which I fucceeded in the cure of the cafe above mentioned, do they not almoft argue the inutility of the great operation I had at firfb attempted ? At leaf! they tell us very plainly, that we muff not re- 4 fort • 1MOTION AND REST. 57 But fort to fuch an operation, till compreffion, employed with all the faga- city which different cafes may require, has been found infufficient 07. Even fiftulas of the anus prefent feme precife indications for the em- ployment of reft. The divifion of the nooze or bridge of fiefh that lies between the two openings forming the fiftuia, de es nothing more than proteCt the parts forming the nooze, from that habitual motion which prevented their re-union. When they are once divided, they enjoy, in comparifon with their former ftate, a degree of reft fufficient to allow the cicatrix to be formed throughout the whole ulcerated extent that formed the rides of the fiftuia. We may even obferve, that the healing of the wound is never more furely and more fpeeally effected, than when by means of a foft tent, we make our dreflings prefs a little upon all the difeafed part ; for they are not the ointments with which thefe tents arc covered that perform the cure, lince I have often effefted this without their aftiftance. Neither is it the pafling of the excrements that puts an obftacle to the cure ; fince I have feen perfectly cicatrized in a fhort time, fiftulas, in which the wound was conftantly covered with fceces. But the ufe of the tent is fo far from being an indifferent matter, that I have often obferved the fiftular canal to become ulcerated again, when this comprefiion was left off too foon after the formation of the cica- trix^ From thefe obfervations, the propriety of which muft be evident, it follows, that it might perhaps be pofiible to cure fiftulas of the anus without either incifion or ligature. A careful compreffion, made by means of a pretty firm tent, introduced much beyond the internal ori- fice of the fiftuia, might be the more likely to fucceed in the cure of this difeafe, if by previous evacuations and a ftri<ft diet, the firft dis- charge of excrement could be delayed till the fides of the fiftuia fliould have acquired an adhefion fufficiently ftrong and firm, not to be deftroyed by the contraction of the fphinCter. Thefe are trials to be made, if they have not yet been attempted, and the effedt of them I fihall foon have an opportunity to determine.ON THE EFFECTS OF 58 But if reft: of the parts concerned, be indicated in the cure of liftu- 1ns, of which there is no doubt, it fee ms not lcfs fo in the prevention of them. Abfcefles which happen in the circumference of the cheft, and which fo frequently remain fiftulous, whether they burft of themfelves, or whether they be opened by final 1 inciiions, become fo merely from the continual motion annexed to the parts in the extent of which they are formed. But there are means of reftraining this motion, and of keeping thefe parts in a ftate of reft neceffiiry to bring about their cohe- fion. A free incifion, carried even acrofs the mufcles that cover thefe ab- fcefles, openings extended according to the direction of the ftnulies they prefent, compreftions difpoled with fkill, &c., are the means by which wre obtain this dcfirable effeft, which is almoft a certain warrant of a ra- dical cure. It is indeed conftant, that compreflive draftings, fo effica- cious in the cure of moft wounds and ulcers, are in thefe cafes of ftili more remarkable advantage than in any other; and that the ftate of reft in which they maintain parts naturally moving on each other, by ena- bling nature to work with effect in uniting them, prevents fiftulous ul- cers, which would often have been the confequence of not attending to reftrain the natural motion of the parts, From what has already been laid, it appears how numerous the indi- cations are for the preferibing of reft in furgical diforders ; though we have only mentioned thofe in which nature requires an infpiflation of fomc of our juices. But the indications which call for the ule of this principle are not limited here ; they arc applicable to fo many furgical difeafes, that we may conftder it as the moft extenlive curative medium the art can employ. 'The cafes we have already gone through will im- prefs an idea of the truth of this aflfertion, and thofe which remain ftili to be explained, will give it the higheft degree of evidence. But wre fhall go through them in a luminary manner, becaule the indications which moft of thefe cafes prefent for the application of this method, are too pofitive to be miftaken ; and the employment of it then becomes a precept of the art. JsMOTION AND REST. 59 Is ic net, in fadt, an eftablifhed rule, that we mu ft have recourfe to reft in all furgical diforders, where motion may impede any falutary cohefions, or may occafion pains, irritations, or frictions that may bring on dis- agreeable confequences, or may difplace parts that fhould be kept in the fttuation they are, or may produce dangerous eftufions of blood, &c. ? Therefore, in cafes of recent wounds we with tore-unite, in diflocations newly reduced, in ruptures attended with bad Symptoms, and which have been juft returned by the taxis, in ioiies of blood which come on during geftation, in cafes of wrenches and forcible extenftons of the liga- ments, in ruptures of thefe parts, as of forne mufcles and tendons, in contufions of the joints ; in all thefe cales, it being evident that motion indifcreetly employed is liable to bring on great mifehiefs, thefe mil- chiefs themfelves are fo many abfolute indications which diredd the pre- fer ribing of reft. Befides, experience has fo fully proved the neceffity and advantages of this method in all fuch cafes, that it would be need- lefs to infift any longer upon it. We (hall only obferve, that in cafes of Ihocks in the joints, and of di- vulfion, and contufion in the ligaments that furround and ftrengthen them, as motion neceflarily produces pains which cannot but increafe the irritation, tenfton, and inflammation which ufually attend thefe ac- cidents from the firft, reft prefents itfelf as the moft efficacious method of cure that nature can furnifh under fuch circumftances. We ought then to rely upon it the more, as it cannot be fupplied by any thing elfe ; for all that art fhould attempt, is only to mitigate the pains, to af- fuage the irritation and tenfton of the parts, and to prevent inflammation and the fatal fuppurations it may occafion. Now, amidft all the methods that art can fuggeft to counteract thefe efredts, reft is the moft powerful; bleeding, diet, and external applications being only acceftfory helps, the efficacy of which is fo much the more evident as they are combined with this principal agent b*0. But fuppoftng that thefe means fhould have been negledted in the firft inftance, or that notwithftpnding the applica- tion of them, abfeefles fhould be formed in the cavities of the joints, and that the l'urface of the bones defigned for their motion fhould be affeefted withON THE EFFECTS OF Go with car:reft, at this period, and in the fubfcquent treatment of the difeafe, r.s we have before proved, is one of the chief methods of cure correfponding to the views of nature. We cannot likewife but be l'cnfible of the efficacy of reft in inflam- matory tumours of the tefticles, and in a falling down of the womb. ]s it not alfo evident in cafes of commotion, either of the l'pinal marrow, or of any of the important vifcera that are contained in the abdomen, the thorax, and the cranium ? The accidents which follow thefe commotions, being always the effect of a violent degree of motion communicated to thefe parts, do they not prefent us with pofitive indications for the pre- fcription of reft M ? 1 have feen a young lady of nineteen, who, after having by chance jumped fome few fteps off a ftaircafe, remained fenl'e- lefs for feveral hours. She afterwards fell into fwoonings every time ine wanted to lit upright in her bed ; and it was only bv reft and a horizontal pofture, perfevered in for feveral months, that lhe was com- pletely cured of this accident. From what has been already faid, therefore, we may be convinced that reft, as well as motion, is indicated on fo many occalions, that we might ftrictly affirm thefe two means of cure to be univerlal and exclu- live ; and, what is more, there are infinite numbers of realons that prefent themfelves in fupport of this conclufion. The dilorders which the animal oeconomy may experience, are, in fa£t, nothing more than the produce of an excels or deficiency of motion W ; and nature and art cannot really fucceed in repairing thefe dilorders, but by increafing the power of motion when it is too weak, and diminifliing it when it is too ftrong. Nature, indeed, in all her efforts to cure, clearly fhews us thefe two points of view, to which all that medicine and lurgery can preferibe, i:i the dilorders belonging to their relpedtive province, is obli- ged to conform itlelf. But amidft the feveral curative means, to be able to chufe thole which can produce either of thele effects, in the exact proportion required for the recovery of health, would be the utmoft perfection of our art; to which human Ikill, however, can never expeCt toMOTION AND REST. 61 to attain. In endeavouring, therefore, to fhew, in this eftay, the advan- tages that may be derived from motion and reft in the cure of furgical affections, I have, indeed, only given a fieetch of the fubjeCt. May the other competitors give complete fatisfaftion to the members of the academy upon this point, and prefent them with performances worthy of themfelves! K NOTESNOTES BY THE AUTHOR."' ( a) lo the obfervations contained in Monsieur Quesnay’s Memoir upon Wounds of the Brain, (printed in the firft volume of the Memoirs of the Academy of Surgery,) where this fadt is eftablifhed, may be added, the obfervation of a rod of iron having palled through the brain, with- out caufing the death of the patient—Journal de Medec'ine, Auguft 1777. (b) The ganglions of the cervical and intercoftal nerves, and of thofe which are placed in the cavity of the abdomen, are they not, as Mr. Le Cat has afferted, with fo much probability, in his differtation on the nervous fluid, which obtained the premium at Berlin, in 1757; are they not particular organs, in which the fluid undergoes elaborations, and receives qualities relative to the functions of each of the vifcera, to which the nervous filaments proceeding from thefe ganglions are distri- buted ? K 2 (c) I mean^4 NOTES BY THE AUTHOR. (c) I mean the fluid which forms the connection between the mate- rial and fpiritual parts of our being. \ (d) This medium comprehends a certain latitude, within the limits of which, health is included. (e) By thefe bounds we are to underftand the quantity of life, not the duration of it. A valetudinarian lives, but he enjoys a lefs degree of life than the man who is in full health. (j) The following fadt will prove, that however inconiiderate fuch a practice may be, there are flill many perfons who follow it.—A country furgeon, being called fome years ago to reduce a fradture of the olecranon, did nothing more than place the fore-arm in a ftate of extenfion, and main- tain it there by a bandage and fome fplints. Twenty days after the acci- dent, the parents of the patient called in the affiftance of two furgeons from a neighbouring epifcopal city. They exclaimed openly againft the pradlice that had been purlued, and decided, that as an anchylofis was the unavoidable confequence of iuch a fradture, the bent pofture of the fore-arm fhould be preferred to its extenfion. Accordingly they exerted all their efforts to feparate the union already begun, and placed the fore- arm in a (ling. This fact was told me, a few months after, by one of the furgeons concerned, who related it as a proof of his own judgment, and of the unikilfulnefs of the firffc furgeon employed, who probably had not been diredted in his pradtice by refledtions drawn from the nature of the difeafe ; otherwife he would not have fuffered pradtices lo repug- nant to the good principles he would have adopted : for to place the fore- arm in a bent poflure in a fradture of the olecranon, is the fame thing as bending the leg upon the thigh in a fradture of the patella. CgJ I fay a moderate extenfion, becaufe a too ftrong one, efpecially if the olecranon were fradtured near its origin, would pulh the cubitus too much forward, and prevent the fradtured furfaces from being adapted to each other. This would occafion, after the union was completed, a65 NOTES BY THE AUTHOR. bony projection on the fide of the joint, which might totally impede its motion. If the fra&ure fhould have happened nearer to the extremity of the olecranon, the forcible extenfion of the fore arm would make a gap between the fraCfcured pieces on the fide of the cavity of the joint ; the olecranon would confequently become fomewhat lengthened, and thrown lip, and the effect of this injudicious practice would at lead be a difficulty and a decreafe of motion. (h) Upon this fubjedt may be feen the fecond part of my ElTay on Counter-ftrokes in other Parts of the Body befides the Head, which obtained the prize in 1771, under the the name of John Martin Bazilie. Prix de I'Jcademie, Vol. IV. (1) I have feen fome perfons attacked with this difeafe, in whom the fymptoms, before the opening of thefe abfceffes, had not been more in- tenfe than thofe here mentioned ; and who, after the evacuation of the matter, have perifhed at the period I have marked. (k) I have at prefent under my notice a very finking indance of what is here advanced. A young man of four-and-twenty years of age, who has an abfcefs in the loins after a difeafe of the fpine, fo evident, that it forms a pretty confiderable projection, had experienced, during the formation of this abfcefs, no other fymptoms than a debility of the fpine, attended with a dull kind of pain, without any remarkable fever or lofs of appetite, &c. But this abfcefs having at length burditfelf, the pa- tient was feized a few days after with a drong fever, and a total lofs of appetite and red, which gave reafon to apprehend that the diforder would loon terminate fatally. But after he had continued a fortnight in this alarming date, he began to grow better ; the difcharge, from being icho- rous and offenfive as it was, lofes daily its bad fmell, and acquires a better confidence j the pulfe becomes more regular, and every thing feems to promife, that with time and red, the patient will efcape with no other inconvenience than that of being a little deformed. Such66 NOTES BY THE AUTHOR. Such was the ftate of this patient, when this effay was fent to the Academy ; and it had been fo much mended fince that time, that the cure appeared certain. The patient had recovered his appetite, digefted well, the matter which ifl'ued from the fiftulous opening was thick, and lefs in quantity, the fpine gathered ftrength daily, and the patient began to walk with a flick. But the fpine being more crooked than I at firft imagined, 1 thought that by bringing it gradually to a flate of extenfion, while the intermediate fubftance which was to fupply the place of the bodies of the vertebrae was flill capable of yielding, the deformity might at leall be partly corrected, or its farther progrefs prevented. With this view I ordered him to lie on his back, and placed a fmall bolfler under the part of the fpine that projected. The ddire the patient had of being cured without deformity, induced him to bear the pain this brought on, without complaining. He no longer flept at night, and though I made him change his pofture, and removed the bolfler as foon as he had told me of the pain he buffered from it; yet 1 had the mortification of feeing, that the lymptoms which had difappeared, immediately after this trial, returned. The dilcharge became more and more plentiful; a flow fever appeared and continued ; a tumour even, but very deep feated, ma- nifefted itfelf on the loins oppofiteto the fiflulous opening ; and there came on at intervals, a lofs of appetite, a diarrhoea, and after fix months gradual decay, the patient died, Though I found, on opening him, the bodies of the two laft dorfiul vertebrae entirely deftroyed, and an incompleat union between the bodies of thole vertebrae that were in contact, I am not the lefs perfuaded that the patient would have been cured, had it not been for that unfeafonable extenfion of the fpine, which brought on the return of the pain, and of the other lymptoms, When nature, for the prelervation of an individual, makes a lacrifice of the motion, or of the figure of any part, it is often neceflfary that art fhould not ft rive againft her in attempt- ing to reftorc what fire gives up, but fhould only be the fpedlatrefs of what is going forward. This faff, and lome others which will be recorded in a collection of obfervations I am preparing to give to the public, will furnifh lufficient proof of this aflertion ; and in this refpeft I lhall not hefitate/ NOTES BY THE AUTHOR. 67 hehtate to confefs my miftakes. The hiftory of thefe, oftentimes proves more inftrudive to others, than that of our fuccefles. (l) The impoffibility of walking, and the neceffity of keeping in bed, which attend this difeafe, are a proof of this. (m) It is always the depraved organization of the bones that caufes the caries and the defquamations ; but this depravity may be produced, not only by the adion of fome power on the bones themlelves, but alfo by injuries afteding either the cartilages that line, or unite them ; or the ligaments which form and ftrengthen their union ; or, laftly, the periofteum which covers them : for the affedions of thefe parts which are eflential to the bones, are often tranfmitted to them, and occalion the caries. (n) I might alledge in fupport of this, the white colour, due confid- ence, and total inoffenfivenefs of fmell, in the matter difcharged from thefe abfcefles at the time of their being opened. See the fir ft part of my Effay on Counter-ftrokes, &c. already referred to in note (h). (0) In faying this I have fuppreffed a fad which might have difcovered me to be the author of this effay. For in the effay before referred to, may be found an inftance of an anchylofis of the thigh with the os innomina- tum, after a caries. See page 590 of the fourth volume of the prizes of the Academy of Surgery (2S). I fhall even obferve here, that that patient experienced the laft fymptoms which brought him to the hofpital, merely on account of a frefh fall on the part. (p) I have at prefent under my care, a young man who has the joint of the ancle completely anchylofed, in confequence of a caries of the aftragalus, the os calcis, and the articulating extremity of the tibia. This cafe promifes a fpeedy cure, as there are now but a few fiftulous orifices open, through which fome few £mall exfoliations, ft ill to be made,, will pafs. (q) The68 NOTES BY THE AUTHOR. (q) The following are fails, fupplied me by the practice of the hofpital, lince 1 fent this eflay to the academy, and come very con- du lively in lupport of the curative means, the efficacy of which I have cftablilhcd. Peter le Leu having fallen, on the zzd of December 1777, on his right knee, felt a fnarp pain, but flill took fo little notice, that he continued his work the next day. Two days after, the pain increafed fo as to make it impoffiblc for him to work ; a confiderable fwelling, attended with much fever, came on, and an abfeefs was at laft formed in the joint. A fluctuation, at a projecting point on the infide of the knee, became evident five weeks after the accident ; and the pus collecting more and more, at length formed an external and very apparent tumour. The furgeon propofed opening it, but the patient not fubmitting, he was left to the care of nature alone. Towards the end of March, the matter made two openings for itfelf, from which there iflfued at firft a matter without fmell, and in very great quantity. But the pus foon changed its nature, becoming in a few days bloody and foetid, and the patient then found himfelf in a much worfe ftate than before the vent of the matter, which had been encouraged by all kinds of maturating applications. Neverthe- lefs, the patient, left totally to himfelf about this time, confining himfelf conitantly to his bed, and avoiding all motion of the part to lave him- felf from the pain that attended it, the difeharge began to lole its foetid fmell and to become lei's plentiful. The articulating furfaces of the this'll hone and the tibia were afterwards gradually foldered together, lo that when the patient came into the hofpital on the 15th September, 1 778, he had nothing more than a fmall flltulous opening at the upper and internal part of the leg, from which only a fmall quantity of pus was difeharged, the good condition of which bclpoke the lpeedy termination of this difeafe. It has ended in a complete atichylofis, with a projection of the tibia backwards, luch as would be oblerved in a luxation of the bone towards that part, and which is probably as much owing to the deldruclion of the crucial ligaments at the time of the fuppuration of the joint, as to the polition the patient may have kept the part in during hia long continuance in bed. 4 TheNOTES BY THE AUTHOR. 69 The following fa£t furnifhes another inftance in which nature fecrns to be preparing the fame kind of termination. A foldier named Pecquigni, in the regiment of Touraine, having marched fome days after he had received a wrench, has fuffered all the accidents that can poffibly follow fo imprudent a hep. A pain and inflammatory fwelling came on, the fuppuration of which being long delayed, it was refolved to remove him to another place. The tumour having at length fuppurated and opened itfelf by five or fix fiftulous orifices, which, on being probed, evidently difcovered a very extenfive caries of the bones of the tarfus, and of the joint of the leg with the foot. The patient was fent back to the hofpital at Rouen, where he came on the 14th of Auguft. He had a flow fuppuratory fever, which grew higher every night, and was at- tended with cough and a hoarfenefs. The foot and lower part of the leg were extremely fwelled, and at the circumference of the tarfus and the joint, there were feveral fiftulous openings which furnifhed a great quantity of ichorous, bloody, and very foetid pus. The ftate of ftupi- dity in which I found the patient the next day and the day after, a colliquative fever, with a diarrhoea, an afh-coloured and emaciated counte- nance, made me confider amputation as a very uncertain method of preferving his life. This, joined to the averfion I have for thefe muti- lations which are fo often ineftedtual, led me to entertain hopes, even in this cafe, critical as it was, of the effects of reft and infrequent dreffings, which I had fo effedlually employed for three months in a.caries of the wrift, which I fhall mention hereafter. Accordingly I covered the fiftu- lous openings with pledgits dipt in the commanders balfam (-6\ and put over them large plaifters of diachylon, refolving to drels my patient only every five or fix days, and putting the part between junks. Since five weeks that I have perfifted in this method, the diarrhoea has flopped, the countenance and the pulfe are infinitely mended, the difcharge is thicker, lefs in quantity, and lefs foetid ; the patient fleeps, and has recovered * lome appetite, fo that we may already indulge in the hope of feeing this malady terminate by a falutary anchylofis. L (O ToNOTES BY THE AUTHOR. jo (r) To this fact I can add another of the fame nature, in which the mifchiefs, though carried to a much higher degree than in the fore-men- tioned obfervation, are evidently yielding to the method I have been de- fcribing.—Michael Davoux came into the hofpital in Mav, 1778, with a compleat caries of the whole carpus, accompanied with three fiftulous openings, communicating with each other on the in fide and outlidc of the joint, the parts in the neighbourhood of the caries were oedematous, and fwelled to fo confiderable a bulk, that moft of the finders mcafured more than five inches in circumference. If we add to thele circumftan- ces a flow colliquative fever, with a foetid and plentiful difcharge, we fhall have an idea of the difeafe. The amputation of the fore-arm feemed indeed the only refource of the art in this cafe ; but before I de- termined on this operation, I was delirous at leaffc of giving a trial to the methods that had fucceeded fo well to me in fimilar cafes. Plcdeirs • * O dipt in the commanders balfam, placed upon the fiflulous openings, and confined by diachylon plaifters and comprefifes dipt in a balfamic embro- cation, have been the only remedies ufed for this patient, fince the time of his coming into the hofpital, to the end of September. Thele have been affifted by intervals of ten, fifteen, and twenty days between each renewal of the drelfings, and by maintaining the part in the rnoft con- ftant ftate of reft, by means of falfe junks. Thefe means have brought this terrible difeafe into a ftate that enables us to prognofticate its cure ; for at the time I am writing, all the fiftulous orifices on the back part of the hand are clofed ; and of thefe, which anfwered to thofe on the infide, there now remains but one, which furnilhes nothing but matter of a good confiftence, and in fmall quantity. Thefe circumftances, added to a very confiderable diminution in the bulk of the parts affecled, l'eem in fa£t to be the forerunners of an approaching cure. (f) It is fufticiently known, that a whole limb may be put in motion, while the circumference of a wound or ulcer, upon fome part of that limb, may be in a perfect ftate of reft. It is not therefore this fort of motion, that we mean to forbid here ; it is that kind that Ihould be exerted fo as to bear upon the injured pafcrt itlelf, and fo as to deftroy in it, the arrange-7* NOTES BY T H E AUTHOR, L i ter mined' arrangement and adhefion of the nutritive particles nature hag brought there for the formation of the fear, ft) It is however to be prefumed, that when fiftulous openings extend underneath aponeurofes fo ftrong and fo tenfe, as the fafeia lata, com- preffions can fcarce ever be made, fo powerful and fo exad as to effedthe propofed union throughout the whole extent of the fmus. (u) If the fiftulous opening be produced by a deep-feated caries, it will be readily conceived, that any compreffion which fhould re-unitc the finus, before the caries were cured, would prove both ufelefs and per° nicious. (w) In the memoir referred to above, and which I had not quoted, left I fhould have been difeovered, it may be feen, how much I infift upon reft, as a mean of cure in moft diforders that are the effed of counter-ftrokes in the joints, extenfion of the ligamentous parts, &c. (x) The fame memoir above quoted, in reprefenting thefe different ac- cidents as the natural confequence of counter-ftrokes in thefe parts, proves alfo, that reft is the method of cure chiefly pointed out in thefe cafes. We may even conceive that the prefeription of that, as well as of motion, is as much the province of the phyfician as of the furgeon ; and that it would be rendering a very important fervice to the art of healing, to ex- plain the indications which fhould lead us, -either to preferibe or forbid the ufe of thefe two means, in difeafes which are more properly belong- ing to medicine; for it mu ft be acknowledged, they are too indiferimi- nately ordered in the cure of internal complaints. I have feveral fads by me which prove, that exercife, and pretty ftrong exertions of motion, have been very indifcreetly recommended in cafes which, had they been properly diftinguifhed, ought to have direded the exclufion of this kind of remedy, the effed of which could not but be, as it proved, very pre- judicial ; and I have other inftances, in which reft has been preferibed from fallacious indications, which, if better uaderftood, fhould have de-NOTES BY THE AUTHOR. 7* termined the employment of motion. But the conditions of this thefis, not allowing me to make any excurfions foreign to mv fubjeft, I have only judged it right to mention this, as one of the moft interefting quef- tions that can be difcufled. (y) Every thing in nature is motion ; it is the universal reftorer and deftroyer. Abfolute reft, efpecially in animated beings, is an imaginary thing ; for reft can only be relative, fince it implies only a degree of mo- tion reduced below a certain term of comparifon. NOTESO T E S N 4 to BY THE TRANSLATOR. (i) I HE author has prefixed an advertifement to this eflay, in which he mentions his reafons for publifhing it himfelf. Though this detail is here omitted, as being in no wife effential to the point in quef- tion, or interefting to an Englifh reader, yet 1 have judged it moft pro- per to keep the performance in the form it was defigned by the writer to appear. (2) This fuppofes the nervous fluid, (if even there be fuch a thing exifting) to be Jire. I mean not to difpute this point with my friend. I would only obferve, that this, as well as the reft of the introduction to this eflay, is entirely conjectural. However ingenious it may appear to be, it cannot ferve as the bafis of thofe great truths, with which this valuable, though fmall performance, abounds, and which are founded on experience alone. This introduction therefore, might perhaps have been left out without any detriment to the fubjeCt. But as I hope it will be found entertaining, and full of new ideas, I fhould not have done jufticen NOTES BV THE TRANSLATOR. 6 gau to my friend’* public appearance in this country, had I altered his drefs, or pared off any of its embroidery. (3) The general opinion of anatomifts is, that the Pons Varolii is formed, by the union of the peduncles of the brain, with thole of the cerebellum. Thele peduncles feem evidently to be productions of the medullary fubftance of each of thefe parts. (4) If the grayifh or cineritious colour of the brain, be the diftin- guiftiing character of a fecretory organ, it (hould feem, that the whole cortical fubftance of the brain (hould be the glandular pare of it, or lit.:? part in which the fluid deftined to be conveyed by the medullary fub- ftance is fecreted. This, indeed, is generally fuppofeh to he the cale. Nature however feems to have placed the medullary fubftance more out of the reach of external injury, than the cineritious lubftance ; for the former is deeper feated, and the latter, (from whence it is alfo called cortical,) is every where placed on the outfide of the medullary fub- ftance, furrounding it on all fides, and feeming to protect it. Accord- ingly, in wounds of the brain, it is the cineritious fubftance which is .firft afteCted, and more of that is always neceflarily dtftroyed than of the medullary fubftance. This laft indeed has been confidered, by all wri- ters, as the moft important part of the brain, and that chiefly from its more internal pofition. On the contrary, it may be urged in favour of our author’s hypothefis, that the cortical fubftance of the brain, being only deflgned to fecrete thofc fluids that are to put our loco-motive pow- ers in a&ion, it was not neceftary that it ftiould be fo particular an objeft of nature's care. It (hould feem indeed, in general, that nature is more anxious to place the organ which conveys the fecreted fluid, out of the way of danger, than that in which the fecrction is performed. For the fecrction may ftiil be carried on in one part of that organ, though ano- ther part of it ftiould be difeafed, or even deftroyed. The in fiances of this are l’o common, that it is unneceftary to mention them. But if the channel which conveys the fluid be cut off, and the fluid fo fecreted thould be neceftary to life, the communication between the fecretory or-7 5 NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. gan and the vital principle, would be intercepted. If, for inftance, one part of the inteftinal canal, or fome of the ladeal veflels, fhould be in- capable of fecreting and abforbing the chyle, this procefs may be carried on by the reft ; but if the thoraic duel be injured, the animal muft una- voidably perifti, becaufe no more nourifhment can be conveyed into the machine *. Accordingly, the thoracic dud is placed with fo much care, that it is almoft impoflible it fhould ever fuffer from external injury. But this is all, as was before obferved, the field of conjedure, in which, any man who wanders, muft unavoidably lofe himfelf. (5) Thefe tubercles feem to be entirely compofed of the medullary fubftance of the brain. This does not appear to agree with our author’s fyftem. (6) The lymphatic veflels, are not continuations of the arteries. They are a diftind fet of veffels, whofe origin is throughout the whole furface of the body, and from the furface of every cavity in it$ and the termination of which is in the thoracic dud. They conftitute the fyftem of abforbents throughout the animal ceconomy; and, as it appears from the late difeo- veries made concerning them, by anatomifts who have been, and fome of whom are happily ftill the light of the prefent age, their fundions are as important, and as furprizing, as thofe of any other veflels in the body. (7) We have a decifive proof of the poftibility of nutrition without the aid of the thoracic duel, in the cafe related in Vol. LXX of the Philofo- phical Tranfadions, by Dr. Cheston of Glocester. In this inftance the dud was rendered impervious by the accumulation of ofiinc matter within its cavity, fo as to render the paftage of any fluid from thence to the fubclavian vein, a matter of abfolute impofllbility. (8) As thefe two kinds of motion, deferibed by our author, are very diftind, fo do the effeds they each of them produce, feem to be. * In oppofition to this opinion, fee the cafe of an offified and impervious thoracic dud, related in Vol. LXX of the Philofophical Tranfadiom, by Dr. Cheston. E. TheNOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. The excefs of inteftine motion produces all thofe general difeafes in the habit, which are the effect of anv univcrfally irritating caufe whatfoever; fuch as inflammatory fevers, epileptic fits, univerfal fpafm of all kinds, apoplexies, violent and fudden haemorrhages, with many other diforders that fall chiefly under the province of the phyfleian, and were therefore out of our author’s difeuflion. A deficiency of inteftine motion, on the contrary, produces all thofe complaints that are the etfe<ft of a general relaxation and debility, throughout the animal oeconomv. Under this clafs may be ranged all putrid fevers, dropfies, &c. There is another furgical difeafe which may likewife be referred to either or both of the above caufes combined ; I mean true or mixed aneurifms of the larger arteries, that are not the immediate efreift: of external injury. Al- though thefe complaints manifeft themfelves in l'ome particular part, as in the thigh, leg, or arm, and therefore put on the appearance of local difeafes, yet the fatal event that almoft conftantly follows any operation performed in thefe cafes, feems to indicate a general difeafe of the whole arterial fyftem. This may proceed either from the inteftine motion of the heart and arteries being too ftrong for the refiftance of the arterial coats, or from a want of inteftine motion in the arterial coats themfelves, which, preventing them from reacting properly on the fluid thrown into them by the force of the heart, occcafions them to give way, and to fwell out into aneurifmal tumours ; or, which is moft probable, both thole caufes combined may produce this difeafe. However this may be, it is no lefts apparent, that this is lome peculiar difeafe of the whole habit ; for among the feveralinftances of this kind that I have feen, I never faw one recover after amputation, which is generally the only operation that can be per- formed in thefe cafes *. In one of them that was under my care at the Weftminfter Hofpital, I had flattered myfelf with fome hopes of fuccefs. It was a very large aneurifm of the femoral artery, for which I was obli- ged to amputate the thigh, very near the groin, becaufe the difeafe ran far up the limb. The wound, from the beginning of the fuppuration, * A cafe of popliteal aneurifm, which was treated by amputation in the Glocefter Infirmary, proved fuccefsful. E. appearedNOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. 77 appeared florid and well; the patient was in good health and fpirits, and for more than three weeks, every appearance was as favourable as I could wilh. This was a longer time than I had ufually known patients to live after amputation in thefe cafes ; mold of thole 1 had feen, having expired within a fortnight. The flump was now nearly healed over, when, all on a fudden, a total languor came on, and a fphacelus of the flump, which carried off my patient in four-and-twenty hours after its flrft appearance. Muft thefe deplorable cafes then be left to themfelves r or are the very rare in fiances of fuccefs, which fome perfons lay they have feen in them, fufficient to juftify us in running the immenfe rifque we do in meddling with them ? It muff be owned, indeed, that thefe patients, if not relieved, will at length of themfelves become vicdims to the dileafe ; but, as we know not how long they might live under it with care and quiet, why fhould we venture to rifque haflening the death of twenty perfons, let us fuppofe, for the bare poffibility of laving one ? A dreadful alternative indeed ! but let us hope that fome method may here- after be found out, to render the affildance of art lefs precarious in thefe cales. It may not be improper to add, as a farther proof of this difeafe being a general one of the whole habit, that in recent, and, as they ufually are, fpurious aneurifms of the arteries in the extremities, from bb.eding or other external injury, the operation of tying up the artery as praflifed in thefe cafes, is i.tfelf fometimes fuccelsful ; and even when that fails, the fubfequent amputation of the limb, which then becomes neceffary, mold commonly faves the life of the patient ; but thefe are only local diforders, in which the reff of the arterial fyftem is not in the Jeald concerned *. * The improvements fuggeAed by Mr. Hunter in the treatment of aneurifms, were fubfe- quent to the annotator’s obfervations on the fubjetff, as here fet down. They afford proper matter for the reader’s confideration, fince the trials hitherto made, have,'happily, tended to contradidlthe opinion, that the difeafe is a general one of the habit, and therefore not curable by any operation. Some valuable communications on this fubjeft are tQ be found in the London Medical Journal; in the yth volume of which, is a description of Mr. Hunter's operation, and an account of its fuccefs. E. Such MNOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. 7S Such is the nature of the diforders proceeding from the excefs or defi- ciency of intefline motion, or of that which is independent of the will, and cflential to life. On the other hand, the excefs of the loco-motive faculty, produces a great number of local difeafes, fuch as external inflam- mation, abfcefles, &c., and is one general caufe of fractures, luxations, and fprains in the extremities ; while the deficiency of it, occafions rigi- dities of all kinds in the limbs and joints, local obftrudtions, rheuma- tifm, gout, &c. Thus we fee, that dilorders produced bv the excefs or deficiency of intefline motion, are general as their caufe : thole brought on by the fame errors in the loco-motive faculty, are partial as their principle. I have conlidered fratflures and luxations as being produced by excefs of the loco-motive power, for it has always appeared to me, that mod bones were broken by the drained action of the mufcles upon them, rather than by tbe application of external forces In cafes where the limb is quite paflive at the time of receiving the accident, as where a coach or cart wheel paffes over it, it is indeed evidently otherwife. But when the accident happens by fome flip or ludden effort, tbe mufcles, inferted in the bone, are then excited to their greatefl power of action* in order that we may be kept, if pofhble, from falling. It is at this infant, I fuppofe, that the bone breaks. In fra&ures of the patella, this manifeftly appears to be the cafe. This bone is fo thick, and its texture fo firm and compact, that any outward force applied that fhould be fuffi- cient to break it, would infallibly fhatter the joint, and, perhaps the whole limb, to pieces : for external force cannot be confined immediately to the fpot oil which it is exerted, but neceflarily extends itfelf in pro- portion to the weight, velocity, and other advantages it may a<fl with. We may conceive then, that fractures of the patella, always happen while the knee is bent, tvhich it generally is, when the foot flips in any man- ner. The flrong extenfor mufcles inlertcd into the patella, then exert all their power to bring the leg to the ftraight line, which would prevent the body from falling; but as they cannot overcome the ludden effort which determines the fall, all their force muft neceflarily be fjpent on the patella, which being then prefled acrols a fulcrum, formed in the flute of genu-fledtion, by the condyles of the thigh bone being pufhed forward.NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR, 11 forward, muft the more readily give way ; and thus the knee pan is bro- ken before the patient falls to the ground. That the cylindrical bones of the extremities may alfo be broken in this manner, is probable, from the great difference of fradtures happening while the limb is in a paffive, or in an adtive ftate. In the former cafe, there is generally a much greater comminution of the bones, the neighbouring parts are more injured,, and the fradtures for the mod part are compound. In the latter cafe, or when the limb is broken by forne fudden flip or effort, the mifehief is frequently, nothing more than a fimple fradture of the bone. Both thefe caufes, it is true, (to wit, a too ftrong exertion of mufcular adlion, and a violent, concuflion from external force,) may concur in producing fractures, dis- locations, and fprains. Thefe mud neceffarily be of the word kind ; and accordingly we fee, that in fradtures from fudden leaps, in which the force of the mufcles of the foot is exerted in its highed degree, and in which the part mud alio receive a very powerful external droke, pro- portioned to the height and velocity of the fall, and to the nature of the bodies on which the foot may light; in thefe cafes, I’fay, we generally find the ancle joint torn to pieces, and that a mortification, the confe- quence of this complicated injury, dedroys the patient in a very diort time, unlefs this fatal event be prevented by immediate amputation'*. Thefe * The following very remarkable accident happened to a traveller on, the box of a Rage coach. He was thrown on the ground with great violence, by the overturning of the carriage, and was foon afterwards taken to a neighbouring houfe, with his ancle in a very deformed Rate. 1 wo gentlemen of the faculty, who were immediately called, finding a great degree of mifehief done to that joint, and that, from a preternatural fullnefs of the poRerior parts, fome of the tarfal hones were dilplaced, took no fmall pains to reRore to its proper Rtuation, what was evidently much out of it. Their endeavours, however, were fruitlefs; fo that after a confulerable time (pent in the attempt, (as well as at the defire of the patient himfelf,) they were obliged to defiR. The joint was then poulticed, with a view to reduce the tenfion, which, by this time, was become very confiderable. Three days afterwards, it appeared, that an extraneous body had been forced in, between the inferior part of the tibia, and the tendo Achilhs. The violent preffure, which had been made ufe of to return this fubfiance to its place, produced a mortification of tire integuments, and thefe Houghing off in the courfe ol a few days, afforded an opportunity ot extradling, what was before fufpedted to be, a M 2 poi tionSo NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. 4 keeping Thcfc refearches into the mode by which different accidents can be produced, may be thought more curious than ufeful; but it muft be con- iklered, that, in many furgical diforders, great ftrefs is delervedly laid on the manner in which an injury happens, on the nature of the inftru- ment it was made with, and even on the fituation of the patient when he received it. In the prefent in ft a nee, thefe different accidents may fuggeft very different indications of cure. But this point cannot be difeufied here, for I would not anticipate my friend in bringing forward obfervations, which are peculiar to him, and which will fhortly come from himfelf*. (9) A fat perfon might therefore fubfift longer, with a lefs proportion of nourifhment, than a lean one ; for while there is any fat remaining in the cells of the cellular fubftance, it will neceflarily be ablbrbed, for the nutrition of the animal. (10) Vide Dr. Caverh ill's treatife on the gout, relative to the cure of that difeafe by motion. (11) The gentleman who is the fubjeft of this remark, is my intimate friend. Juft after this performance was printed, he had a pretty fmart attack of the difeafe, in his foot. He attributed the return of this com- plaint, to his having again negledted his ufual amufement of tennis, for two years paft. When he was l'eized with this fit, which, from its firft: violence, feemed as if it would laft fome time, I advifed him to rife con- ftantly from his feat, notwithftanding it put him to great pain, and by degrees, to move his foot as much as pofiible. I alio directed ioft and dry fridtion, to be ufed frequently in the day. By thefe means, and by portion of the aftragalus, feparated by the fradture of that bone. The patient, by proper care, afterwards recovered. An inflance fimilar to this happened to-a poor man’s leg, owing to the falling in of a Bone Quarry; by which accident it had been molt terribly Blattered, and a large fragment of theaHragalus forced into the fame fituation with the above. E. * This alludes to the Memoir on Counter-ftrokes, annexed to the prefent publication. E.81 NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. keeping him inaconfant copious perfpiration, the fit lafled no longer than, three or four days. After it went off, he had a large boil formed on the upper and back part of the thigh, which fuppurated very plentifully, and confined him for about a week longer. (12) In fupport of this opinion, it may be added, that all perfons ' fubjedl to the rheumatifm, are always more affedled with the pain, in the ' morning, at their firf riling, after they have remained for feven or eight hours in a compleat fate of ref. The pain is fcarcely fupportable at their firf getting out of bed, but, with theexercife of the day, and gently ufing the part to motion, it always grows more tolerable. From this it fhould appear, that the advantage of warmth, however great it may be in this difeafe, cannot be comparable to that of motion ; fince the fuperior warmth of the bed and of a fate of fleep, cannot compenfate for the want of motion. (13) Perhaps it is one of the greatef defiderata in furgery, to be able, either to affif nature in the formation of an anchylofis, or to form one artificially when nature does not feem to be difpoled to it. Let me be permitted to obferve here, that all the means which the ingenuity of burgeons has hitherto contrived, to effedt this purpofe, feem totally con- trary to the method laid down, in the courfe of this effay, for bringing it about, by abfolute ref and total inaction. It has been thought, indeed, that the exciting of inflammation, would be likely to procure adhefions between thefe folid parts. This reafoning has been founded on analogy, from confidering the effedts which inflammation frequently has on the flefhy parts. Injections, caufics, and fetons pafled through the joint, in cafes of difeafed articulations, have all been tried upon this principle. I muf, indeed, confefs, that I have tried them myfelf, and been them often tried by others, without fuccefs. If the author’s ideas of forming an anchylofis are juf, as we may conclude they are from the fadts he adduces hereafter in fupport of them, (fome of which I have been vvitnefs to,) it will appear, that all the methods before propofed for this purpofe, have rather impeded than forwarded it; fo difficult is it to know,NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. know, how to direct the operations of nature. If the method here pro- pofed ihould hereafter prove generally fuccefsful, many limbs will pro- bably be prefer/ed, as will appear from that part of this efiay which treats on the effects of reft in furgical diforders. (14) The practice of ufing motion in fractures of the patella and ole- cranon, in order to prevent an anchylofis of the joint, which was almoft always the conlequence of the old method of treating thefe complaints, was firft: made ufe of, as I believe, by Mr. Watson, Surgeon to the Weft- minjler Hofpital, though I know not that he has ever laid any claim to this very great improvement in the art of Surgery, So far I am certain, that 1 have feen him follow this practice above five and twenty years ago. Let me however be permitted to obferve, that there is no neceffity for waiting till the twenty fifth day, in order to begin moving the joint. Mr. Watfon’s method, in fradure s of the patella, which I have always followed fince I have been in practice, is to bring the fra61 ured extremi- ties as near as poffible to each other, and to put on fuch a bandage as lhall only allow of a very obfeure degree of motion in the joint. But this oblcure motion he permits his patients to exert on the third or fourth day after the accident, by direding them to rife out of bed, and walk gently about the room, with crutches, a little every day, till the union is fufficiently firm to allow them to bear on the ground. From following this method, I never faw the leaft inconvenience; but, on the contrary, the motion of the joint became perfectly free, after the conlolidation of the fradure, even though there were a confiderable interval between the fractured extremities. Let me be allowed to adduce a cafe, in confirma- tion of the utility of this pradice. About two years ago, I attended the fiqn of Sir Arch. Ed , who had accidentally fractured the upper part of the olecranon ; a cafe which does not occur near fo often as the frac- ture of the patella, and that for obvious reafons. The fradure was at- tended with much lwelling and contufion, which prevented me from difeovering it till fome days after the accident, though I luipeded what had happened from the firfi:. When the lwelling and tenlion were re- moved, the bones, in this young habit, had already begun to fhoot out fomcNOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. 83 fame callus, which prevented me from carrying the arm back to its full degree of extenfion. I brought it however, on the firffc time of applying the bandage, as near to a ftraight line as I could, and maintained it in that pofition, by fupporting it dole to the fide of tiie body. In three days time, I took off the bandage, and found I could extend the arm much ftraighter than at fir ft ; I therefore gave the joint a very gentle degree of motion, for the fpace of a quarter of an hour, and then, ap- plied the bandage again. In this manner I proceeded every fecond or third day, renewing the bandage, and giving, each time, more and more motion to the joint, as the danger of difplacing the fractured parts diminiftied. At length I fucceeded in bringing the arm perfectly to the ftraight line, and when the young gentleman got well, which was in about fix weeks after the application of the bandage, he had as free a motion and ufe of the joint as ever. I am apt to think the cure, in thefe cafes, will be much more fpeedily performed, by adopting this method, than by waiting till the twenty-fifth day, before we begin moving the difeafed joint. (15) Spirituous liniments almoft faturated with foap, and united to the adive volatile alcaline fpirit, have always fucceeded beft with me, in preventing or curing dileafes of the joint. If camphor be united with them, it feems to make them infinitely more efficacious ; for camphor, befides the great volatility of its particles, feems to poftefs a peculiar fe- dative quality, which renders it a very proper application in all inflam- mations, and in all cafes where pain muft be mitigated. This method indeed, joined to fumigations, fomentations, and ftupes, with vinegar, feems, as Dr. Cheston has very well obferved in his Pathologigae Observations and Enquiries, to be the moft likely way to fucceed in the cure of thole dreadful diforders the knee joint is fubjed to, and which, when they are incipient, are termed white fwellings. One cir- cumftance may perhaps he added, which is, that fridion itfelf, gentle fridion 1 mean, may be as efficacious in bringing about the defined end, in thefe calcs, as any of the other methods. This indeed is a circum- ftance very liecellary to be attended to, for which reafion, I always di- red84 NOTES B V THE TRANSLATOR. re£l the embrocations made ufe of, to be employed very freely, and the fridtion exerted with them to be continued for a long time, and very fre- quently renewed. It feems to be as neceflary, in the pradlice of Sur- gery, to know for how long a time, and how frequently we fhould em- ploy the means we may propofe for the cure of any furgical complaints, under different circumHances, as it is in phylic, to afeertain the proper doles of medicine, and their repetition, for the relief of internal difor- ders, in various conflitutions. ’Tis much to be lamented, that both medicine and furgery are Hill very imperfect in this particular. (t6) In cafes of rigidity alfo, mod; commonly remaining in the ten- dinous parts, after violent contufions or fractures, I cannot too much re* commend the ufe of frictions, with oily, volatile, and laponaceous ap- plications, and a Heady perfeverance in the ufe of them. I have fre- quently feen fradtures and contufions about the wriH, which, after a long time, have left the flexor tendons of the fingers, in particular on the infide of the fore arm, in a Hate of conliderable dwelling, pain, and Hiffnefs, infomuch, that after all the bones were firmlv and evenly con- folidated, there has appeared as great a degree of deformity as if a luxa- tion or fradlure fubfifled Hill*. The embrocations before mentioned, are ulually * This deformity of the wrift does not feem to be properly underflood. It is much more frequently met with, among people advancing in years, (particularly women) after falls, than in the earlier part of life, and feems to me to arife from a rupture of the ligaments, which, in a natural Hate, preferve the fymmetry of this joint. Hence the radius drops inwards, while the carpal hones feem to he thrown outwards. Whoever has feen the true dillocation of this joint, which however is always to be reduced with the greatefl eafe, will readily diflinguilh the two cafes. From repeated experience I have found, that the heft me- thod to prevent this deformity is, after making a moderate extenfion, and bending the hand inwards, fo as to relax the palmaris mufcle, &c., to pafs a bandage, pretty tight, round the lower part of the arm and wrift, and then over the hack of the hand,- fo as to put the latter into a declining fiate; by this means the radius, which caufes the greatefl part of the deformity, is raifed to its proper place. If, afterwards, a fplint of feme flrength be applied on the back of the arm, and extended about two inches over the joint of the wriil, it will ferve as a fulcrum, by being inclofed in another roller, to keep the parts in a proper fitua- tion. It is frequently proper to incluJe a comprefs, in this latter bandage, on the projedting part85 NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. ufually ordered, to relieve thefe troublefome and difagreeable complaints, but I think, fufficient ft refs is not at the fame time laid upon the free ufe of thefe liniments, and the long continuance, as well as frequent repetition, of the friclion that is to be ufed with them. This I believe to be the reafon why thefe complaints generally laft fo long, and are fome- times never removed. The patient, wearied out with the inefficacy of means, which feem to fail merely from being improperly ufed, grows importunate with the furgeon, to try fomething elfe. The furgeon, un- willing to fee his art baffled, and not perhaps attending to the true reafon of it, frequently changes his beft methods for others infinitely lefs likely to fucceed ; but to which, report, and the experience of others, feem to have given a fandtion. The officioufnefs of idle people/who are continu- ally talking of the numberlefs fine cures they have feen effedted by goofe greafe, fteeping in bullocks’ paunches, and other fuch methods, often induce patients to try them, in preference to a better method, ordered by a Ikilful furgeon, which, had they perfevered in, or ufed it properly, would, in all probability, have had the defired effedt. Time alone fome- times gradually brings about the recovery of the parts. (17) Rotrou’s Solvent—The compofition of Rotrou’s folvent is given as follows : “ Crude antimony, mixed with three parts of nitre, “ and expofed to the fire in a crucible, lofes all its phlogifton by the “ adlion of the nitre. The mixture enters into a pafte like fufion, it is “ then poured on a marble, pulverifed, and kept in a bottle.” Baume s Manual of Chemiftry, p. 206 *. (18) Burnt part of the radius, taking care, however, that it fhall not prefs on the radial artery. The back of the hand, and the arm, above the bandage, in general, fvvell pretty much ; but, to prevent inflammation, the bandage fhould be conftantly moiftened with Goulard water or fome other topic. It fhould farther have been obferved, that the radius is frequently frac- tured in this cafe, but not always in the fame place. E. * In the account of Rotrou’s Medicines given by Astruc, at the end of his fourth book, is the following combination of nitre and antimony, under the name of Pulvis Liquans : N R RegullNOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. 86 (18) Burnt fponge is one of the remedies that feem to ain this man- ner, in the cure of this difeafe. If perfevered in for a long time, and ufed very freely, I am inclined to think it one of the moft ufeful alcaline and abforbent medicines againft this complaint, and alfo againfl the bron- chocele, in which latter inftance, I have fometimes ufed it with fuccefs. But to do any good in thefe laft cafes, it mult be ufed much more freely than it generally is. I have had patients who have taken more than an ounce of it every day. (19) I find, in Lieutaud’s Synopfis, and Wecker’s Antidotarium fpeciale, the following plafters of Vigo. Emplastrum de Ranis, vel de Vigo, cum mercurlo, maxima reruin copia exfurgit. Primo, coquuntur in vino Sc aceto range & lumbrici, cum radicibus ebuli & enulae, floribus chamaemeli, lavandulas, &c. Dein feorfim liquantur cera Sc axungiae, ftyrax Sc terebinthina, cum oleis rana- rum, lumbricorum, liliorum, &c. Quibus fufis adduntur olibanum mvr- rha, euphorbium & crocus, cum oleo eflentiali lavandulae. Turn decoflo & liquamini, fimul mixtis, Sc ulterius coftis, adjicitur mercurius ope terebinthinzB Sc ftyracis extin&us ; ut ex omnibus notiflima arte fubadlis emergat emplaftrum, quod inter eximia refolventia Sc incidentia haud immerito dccantatur. Ideo conducit in tumoribus cvfticis Sc anomalis ; gummata venerea evincit; glandulis fcrophulofis opitulatur, See. Pof- tremo nonnunquam adhibetur amplitudine congrua, ad movendam faliva- tionem, vel oppugnandum virus venereum adhibetur, atque in hunc fmem paratur cum duplicato vel quadruplicato mercurio, ut ad hoc opus effica- cius evadat. Lieutaud, p. 89y. R Rcguli antimonii optime preparati et in pulverem triti. Nitri purijicati et in pulverem feorjtm rcdafli ana Thefe two powders being mixed, throw a fpoonful at a time into a red hot crucible, and let the whole calcine for fix hours. This is afterwards to be pulverized and kept in a glafs veflel. To complete the procefs, we are directed to add to each pound of the powder, warmed over the fre, fix ounces of flrong cinnamon water, drop by drop, fining it con- tinually till the whole is evapoiated, E, DiachylonNOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. S7 Diachylon cum Gumm-i Vigonis. —R Rad. Althre. — Semin. Lini Foenigraeci ana |j, Violarum—Sem. Malvae—-Sem. Althae—Sem. Cy- donio'rum ana, 51s—Sem. Pfyllii 5!j — Rad. Ireos 51]—Olei Chamaemelini —Oiei Anethini—Olei Liliorum—Olei Lini-—Olei Irini ana giij—Pin- gued. Galling—Pingued. Anatis—Pingned. Anferis ana ^iij—Olei Amygd. dalc.—Oelypi humidi—-Sued Glycerrhizae ana —Terebinthinre §ils— Sevi vituli Ibfs-—Lithargyri auri Jx-—Bulliant omnia fimul baculo agitando, ufique ad confiumptionem mucilaginis. Deinde cum cera alba, quantum fufficit, fiat ceratum molle addendo Sagapeni—Opoponaci—Bdellii mollis -—Galbani ana ^iij—Hammoniaci 3v diffoluta in aceto, fiat Emplaftrum. Emplastrum de Minio Vigonis—R Olei rofati adorati ftifs—Olei Myrtini-—Unguenti Populeonis ana §iv—Pinguedinis Gallinas §ii—Sevi Cafirati—Sevi vaccini ana ibfs—Pingued. Porcinae ^vij—Lithargiri auri—. Lythargiri argenti ana liiifs—Minii liij—Ceruflie 3iv-—Terebinthinae lx Cerae q. f. Fiat emplaftrum fecundum artem, tendens ad nigredinem, YVecker, Antid. Spec. Lib. II. Emplastrum Diabotanum.—Forte plus aequo celebratum, nomen fortitur ab ingenti plantarum copia, quae ejus compofitionem ingrediun- tur; inter quas notandae veniunt; cicuta, valeriana, chamaepithis, an- gelica, raphanus rufticanus, cucumis, fchrophularia ; chelidonium, gra- tiola, &c. quorum decodtum, addito nonnullarum fucco, evaporation! committitur ; ut adjiciatur gummi ammoniaci, galbani &c. in aceto fcil- litico folutio. Dein admifeentur lythargyrus ; olea lumbricorum, catel- lorum, &c. in aqua codla. Quae omnia mixta pofiea recipiunt fulphur, ceram, ftyracem & picem ; non fecus ac pulverem radicum ireos, cycla- minis, ferpentariae, hellebori, ari, ariftolochiae, See. baccarum lauri & nonnullorum feminum ; varia gummata, camphoram, oleum caryophillo- rum. Sec. Quid emergat e tanta rerum farragine vix definiri potefi:. Huicce tamen emplaftro infulae compofitionis, tribuuntur vires refolventes, emollientes & demulcentes ; nec refragatur experientia : praecipue deprae- dicatur adverfus tumores cyfticos, glandulas induratas, ganglia, &c0 Lieutaud, p. 8io» N a (20) InNOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. 88 (20) In fcrophulous ulcers attended with caries, I have ufed, with good iuccefs, a (mail portion of the magnes arfenicalis, which I have applied to the foul ulcers and carious bones. The idea of ufing this medicine in fcrophulous ulcers, was fuggeded to me, from a furgical manufcript I found at the Britidi Mufeum, which advifcd it, as a fpecihc in thofe cafes. But though apparently a very uleful application, and indeed more fo than any other topic 1 have ever tried, yet I cannot take upon me to fay, that it deferves this appellation. There were alio fome other curious matters I extracted from manufcripts in that collection, and of which a full account has appeared, in the work which I have published, on the treatment of cancerous difeafes. (21) I knew not, till I read this pamphlet, that volatile alkalis had been propofed by Mr. Perilhe in the cure of this difeafe ; but, for fome years pad, it has been my con dan t practice, both in private, and at the Wedminder Hofpital to give drong volatile medicines in the cure of the venereal difeafe. The volatile I ufed formerly to prefcribe, was the volatile tin&ure of guaicum ; and this I did with a view to afiift the aftion of mercury ; for I have always held, that in order to render mer- cury more efficacious in the cure of the venereal difeafe, it was neceffiary to excite the powers of it by warm and dimulating medicines. Bv this combination, I have fucceeded in curing feveral venereal complaints, which fublided after the patients had been falivated, and had per- fevered in a courfe of mercurial medicines for a verv confiderable length of time, I confidcr falivation, indeed, merely as an overdole of mercury, and cannot think it contributes the lead, in itfelf, to the expullion of the virus. But thefe, and feveral other obfervations, which reading and a careful pra&ice has fupplied me with, on the venereal difeafe, would lead me too far here. I diall only hint at one particular cafe, of a terrible venereal cancer, that had eaten away the greater part of the penis, and the cure of which feemed to prove, that the cancerous ulcer, fometimes fuccceding to this difeafe, requires a different treatment from the venereal virus itfelf; and that, although the cancer fhould be cured, the virus dill remains in the body. The patient I allude to, had taken 4 * a pro*NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. S9 a prodigious quantity of mercury before I faw him. He had had mavy univerfal fymptoms of the difeafe, which had all yielded to this treat- ment; and there remained only, when he applied to me, this tei ibis cancerous ulcer before mentioned, which had already eaten away one half of the penis, and was fpreading very fart on the prepuce towards the integuments of the abdomen. With great difficulty, 1 iucceeded in putting a flop to this cancer, without a grain of mercury, by methods which 1 ffiall give a full account of on another occaiion. To my great furprize, however, no fooner was the cancer healed, than my patient was feized with venereal fymptoms all over the body, viz. ulcers in the throat, univerfal pains, fwelled legs, and nodes upon the bones. All thefe, however, yielded readily to a prudent adminifcration of mercury, joined to a&ive volatile Emulating medicines and the warm bath ; and the patient, at this day, three years from the time of his being under my care, enjoys a perfect flate of health. (22) The beft inftrument ever invented for thefe cafes, is that publifh- ed in the Memoirs of the Academy of Surgery, under the name of Mr. Vacher, and it feems to act entirely upon thefe principles ; for, by keeping the fpine, as much as poffible, in one continued flate of extenfion, it not only prevents the vertebrae from preffing upon each other, but likewdfe hinders them from moving one upon the other, and confequently in fome meafure maintains them in a flate of reft. (23) ^ is needlefs to expatiate upon the novelty and excellence of all thefe obfervations refpedting abfceffes proceeding from carious vertebra: cf the back or loins, or, in other words, of what w’e familiarly call pfoas cafes, which deftroy fo many patients at all periods of life. But thefe call to my remembrance a remarkable cafe, which fell under my care in the Wejhminjier Hfpital, and the event of which I could never fatisfa&orily account for. This cafe is related at large in my Effay on Abfceffes, page 128, (24) From90 NOTES EY THE TRANSLATOR. (24) From this obfervation of the poflibilityof a limb being in motion, while the circumference of an ulcer or fore in it, may be at reft, we may account for the utility of bandage, in the cure of ulcers of the legs. Pro- per bandage anfwers the very purpofe of keeping the ulcer, and the parts about it, ftcady and at reft, notwithftanding the motion that may be given to the limb. But we muft obferve, that an upright pofture, by forcing the lower extremities to fupport the whole weight of the trunk, counteracts the good effeCts of bandage ; fo that whatever lateral motions of the limb we may allow our patients, in ulcers of the lower extremities, we muft take great care to confine them to a horizontal pofture. It is evident this cannot extend to fores in the upper extremities, for the weight of the body not prefling upon them in an upright pofture, the reft of the part is only to be attended to in thefe cafes. (25) The reader will find in the annexed Memoir on Counter-Strokes, all the different cafes to which the author alludes. (26) Balsamum Commend a tor is, Beaume du Chevalier, vel, a non- nullis, Beaume univerfel, eft tinctura fpirituofa radicum angelicae & florum hypcrici; in qua peradta digeruntur primo myrrna & olibanumdein ftyrax, benzoinum, balfamum tolutanum, aloe & ambra cineritia. Crebo in nfum venit illud balfamum ; ac pro exquifitiore ftomachico & carminante habetur; roborantium, & praefertim cephalicorum claflem iubita Idcirco confert in cardialgia ; dolores a flatulentia compefcit ; fomnolentiam arcet; diurefim movet, &c. Dofis a guttis quatuor, ad viginti, in jufculo, vino, fyrupo, aliove hauftu. Infuper eximium vulnerarium & anteputridum externum cenfetur; nec inf mum locum tenet inter refolventia : ideo faufte admovetur vulneribus recent’rbus, contufioni & gangraen<£: nec minus auxiliatur partibus paralyticis. Lieutaud, p. 673. IV. ON \ vON THE EFFECTS O F COUNTER-STROKES.„ ■ v . Sill ■ ■ .An ESSAY ON THE FOLLOWING PROPOSITION. TO EXPLAIN THE EFFECTS OF COUNTER-STROKES ON THE SEVERAL PARTS OF THE BODY, EXCLUSIVE OF THE HEAD, AND THE METHODS OF RELIEVING THEM. A THEME fo interefting, could only be propofed by the Academy of Surgery : and it required the fagacity of that celebrated body, to perceive, in the difcuffion of a queftion, which to ordinary furgeons may poffibly appear barren of matter, a feries of fadls and practical inferences, well calculated to extend the boundaries of an art, the improvement of which is their foleobjedt, and the rational exercife of which, tends greatly to relieve the bufferings of mankind. Powerful motives thefe, to excite emulation among competitors for a prize, to be awarded by the hand of Science ! To * OON THE EFFECTS OF 94 To afk an explanation of the effeds of counter-ftrokes on the feveral parts of the body, exclufive of the head, is to beg the queftion concerning the exiftence of thefe counter-ftrokes, and of the mifehiefs that enfue from them. To demand an expofition of the means of relieving them, is to require of thofe who may attempt to folve this important queftion, a methodical and confiderate application of the means which the art may fuggeft to a man of knowledge, who, in the effects of counter-ftrokes, perceives at once, both the connection between the caufe and the effcCt, and the mechanifm by which the injuries he fees have been produced. If it be a matter of furprize, that the exiftence of counter-ftrokes in the head, fhould have appeared problematical, even at a time when fup- ported by reafon and experience, it is ftill infinitely more aftonifhing, that the efforts of counter-ftrokes on other parts fhould have been in fome fort overlooked, and that no writer fhould refer, at leaft explicitly, to this kind of caufe, numbers of accidents which he mult have feen (*). Although it mult be acknowledged, that practice is not fo much affeded by this omiffion, as might be imagined, on account of the number of cafes in which a knowledge of the mechanifm by which the accident was occa- fioned, could have little influence on the mode of cure to be purfued, yet there are cafes in which a knowledge of this mechanifm can only fuggeft, with propriety, the curative means to be employed. This is fufficient to render a folution of the propofed queftion very interefting, although it fhould not even convey to the mind that degree of fatisftidion, which we always experience, when we are convinced of having difeovered the immediate relation of the caufe to the efted. Counter-ftrokes, in the feveral parts of the body, exclufive of the head, are fo frequent, that dileafes of the utmoft importance in furgerv, may be confidered as being produced by them. I fhall endeavour to prove this propofition by fads, rather than by argument. Befides thofe which 1 have colledcd from the experience of fome great mafters in the art, whom I have attended, there are no inconfiderable number which have occurred in my own pradice, and which all contribute in the moft palpable man- ner95 COUNTER-STROKES. ner to evince the pernicious effefts of thefe counter-ftrokes. If there- fore, I can only give a rational analyfis of thefe faffs, accompanied with a mode of cure, adapted to the nature of thefe accidents and their caufe, I flatter myfelf that I (hall anfwer the two requisites of the proposition ; but, fenfible as I am of the difficulty of the undertaking, of my own in- sufficiency, and of the difcernment of thofe who are to decide upon the fubjedt, I am excited to engage in the attempt, rather by a defire of Shewing my zeal for the improvement of the art, than by any hope of fuccefs in the enterprize. A counter-ftroke, taken in the moft extenfive fienfe, is a Shock, which, from the part immediately Stricken, is tranfmitted to a greater or lefs dif- tance, and which produces, in its progreflion, mifchiefs more or lefs evident ; while the part which firft received the Shock, often remains uninjured. In a more confined fenfe, as we generally confider it in the firft in- stance, a counter-ftroke is a Shock which is conveyed from the part immediately Stricken, to other parts, and produces in them the fame mifchiefs, which the body giving the Shock would have occasioned, if thefe parts had been immediately expofed to its a&ion <hK When we are once acquainted with the laws, according to which, motion communicates itfelf and is loft, and with the circumftances necef- fary to occafion a congeries of Solid fibres, to yield more eafily in one place than in another, we may form a Sufficiently exaft theory of the effedls of counter-ftrokes on the hard parts. Several faffs will afford me the opportunity of elucidating the mechanifm of thefe counter-ftrokes; which will be better underftood, when it Shall only be an explanation of the manner in which Such and Such mifchief may have been pro- duced, in a part diftant from that which has received the] firft Shock. Thus, after having pointed cut the effecls of counter-ftrokes on the different parts of the body, exclufive of the head, I Shall Speak of the proper mode of treating them, according to the nature of the mifchief O o 2 whichON THE EFFECTS OF 96 which may have been occafioned ; and that I may proceed with order, this effay fhail be divided into two parts. In the firft, I fhail explain the effects of counter-ftrokes on the feveral external parts fubjedt to the a£tion of this caufe, and fhail point out a method of cure adapted to the caufe, to its effects, and to the accidents which are, or may be, the confequence of it. In the fecond part, I fhail treat of the effects of counter-ftrokes upon feveral of the vifcera contained in the cavities of the human body, befide that of the cranium ; and fhail indicate the mode of treatment that may be ufed, with the greateff probability of fuccefs, againft the injuries that are occafioned by them. PARTCOUNTER-STROKES, 91 PART I. It is evident from fads, that the principal pieces which enter into the compofition of the trunk, and of the extremities of the human body, are fubjed to the effeds of counter-drokes. Thole efpecially which con- ditute the lower extremities, are the mod liable to them, for which reafon, we are naturally led to begin with examining the mifchiefs that may be produced in them by l'uch a caufe, and the mode of relieving them. But before we proceed to this part of the quedion, it may be proper to notice fome preliminary fads, calculated to explain, almod intuitively, the mechanifm of counter-drokes, and the connedion be- tween their effeds and the caufe that produced them. Any part of the machine may fudain a fhock, whether a body put in motion lhall drike againd the part, or whether the part itfelf lhall drike, with a certain velocity, againd a body at red. This being premifed, let us obferve, id. That the feet, at every dep of progreflive motion, receive fhocks which are conveyed, without any fenlible effeds, along the inferior ex- tremities, the fpine, &c. 2dly. That thefe fmall Ihocks, which are nothing in the indance of habit we have been mentioning, are more fenfibly felt in leaps, and may beON THE EFFECTS OF be attended with many mifehiefs in parting through the parts to which the fhock is conveyed. ^dly. That in falls on the feet, it often happens, that the fhock is fufficient to produce accidents, which require the artirtance of art; but in this refpe£t, the accident is always in proportion to the height of the fall, and to the ftate of the parts which receive the motion, as we (hall make it appear in a future difeurtion. Man is deftined to walk upright, to run, to leap ; and is therefore ex- pofed to all the bad effe<5ts that may relult from the kind of fhock we have been fpeaking of. Accordingly, we cannot behold, without admi- ration, the precautions which nature has employed, in the manner by which the pieces that compofe the lower extremities and the trunk, are articulated with each other, in order to prevent the invincible refinance which the feet meet with on the ground, from producing (at leart: in ordinary inftances) any mifehief in the bony parts conrtituting either thefe extremities or the trunk ; and alfo in order that the important vifeus contained in the cavity of the cranium fhould be preferved from any fhock fufficient to difturb its organization. A curfory review of thefe objedls will enable us the better to underhand all the contrivances of nature to elude the effects of counter-ffrokes that may be tranfmitted through this channel. The bones of the tarfus and metatarfus, are formed and articulated in fuch a manner, as to leave a hollow of a certain depth in the lole of the foot; a cavity from which nature derives other advantages bdide that of making a paflage for tendons, blood-vefiels, and nerves ; for this hollow forms a kind of arch, the parts of which being moveable upon each other, may give way a little in yielding to the motion of the upper parts that prefs upon them j the motion, therefore of thefe parts being in foine meafure dertroyed here, they retain the lefs of it. The99 COUNTER-STROKES. The cartilages with which the articulating furfaces of the bones of the foot and leg are covered, deftroy alfo a part of this motion, fo that it is much weakened when fent away from thence, or when we confider it at the articulation of the leg with the thigh ; where the cartilages covering the extremities of thefe bones, and the intermediate femilunar cartilages, evidently concur in the fame effedt. Hence it may be concluded, that the motion communicated to the upper parts refting upon the thigh, hath already loft much of its force, when we confider it in the articulation of the thigh with the os innominatum, where we meet with frefh cartilages, which abforb ftill more of the motion. But the circumftance which ab- forbs the moft of it in this place, is the obliquity with which the head of the thigh bone bears upon its neck ; for by means of this difpofition, the two ofta innominata, by the quantity of motion ftill remaining in the upper parts, prefs upon each other forwards at the fymphifis of the pubis, and laterally upon the os facrum, at the point of their articulation with this bone. Now, we know, that at thefe points of union, there are fome very thick cartilages; and by tracing the motion along the fpinal column, we obferve with what art nature hath articulated and arranged the pieces which compofe it, to diminifh the violence of this motion ; fo that we are no longer furprized, that the motion of fo large a mafs as the human body, accelerated even during the time of a fall from a confiderable height, fhould be reduced almoft to nothing, when tranfmitted to the brain, by the refiftance which the feet have met with. We are not to fuppofe, however, that the cartilages of the joints, the ligaments that furround them, and the motion of the bones over each other, are the only circumftances that concur in this matter ; the mufcles have alfo their fhare in deftroying the motion of the upper parts over the lower ones, ftriking againft the ground : for notwithftanding the admi- rable arrangement of the pieces that compofe the fpine, the brain would receive, in the moft common leaps, a commotion fufEcieut to dif- lurb its organization, if, at the inftant of the fhock, the motion were conveyed in fuch a direction, as that the trunk and extremities fhould be in a ftraight line; but. fortunately this is a circumftance whichICO ON THE EFFECTS OF which cannot often happen. The lower end of the thigh bone, is ge- nerally forced to make an angle, more or lefs obtufe, with the tibia, according to the violence of the fall ; which angle would even become fo far acute, as that the buttocks would come to the ground, unlei's the mufcles, known by the name of extenfors of the leg, exerted themfelves to oppofe this, or rather, unlefs they gave way only by degrees, and to a certain point'CK This firf flexion neceflarily brings on another, that of the trunk for- wards on the thigh ; a flexion which is moderated by all the mufcles fixed in the tuberofity of the ifehium, otherwife the head would f rike againf the knees. It is fufficiently evident from what has been And, that in all inflances of leaps or falls upon the feet, the fpinal column mud be bent forwards, and that the head then tends to fall downwards and forwards, by deferi- bing a curve ; but the mufcles which ferve to extend the head, the back, and the neck, are at this infant thrown forcibly into aftion, and retain the trunk and head in fuch a manner, that the motion remaining in them can only (except in falls from a very great height) bend the head and trunk forwards to a certain degree ; from whence it is evident, that in cafes of leaps or falls upon the feet, mod of the mufcles of the human body are employed in defraying the greatef part of the motion, by allow- ing the bones to which they are attached, to yield only by degrees, and fucceffively, to the impulfe, or action of the weight. Notwithftanding this admirable arrangement, nature is fill frequently in default. The direction of the Ihock, though a moderate one, is fome- times fuch as to elude the aft ion of mof of the agents which have been prudently employed to leflen it ; or elfe the motion is too violent to allow thefe agents to abforb a fufficient quantity of it to prevent mifehief in fome of the part through which it is tranfmitted. This fatal truth is 6 but101 COUNTER-STROKES. but too well evinced by numbers of fa<5ls ; but as, in the inflances above mentioned, the lower extremities are the parts that receive the firfb fhock, which is conveyed by them to the trunk, we fhall flrfl examine the effedts of countei-flrokes on the feveral pieces which compofe them. We fhall then trace the effects of a fimilar caufe upon the bones which concur in forming the trunk ; and laftly, we fhall explain the mifchiefs that may be produced from counter-ftrokes on the feveral parts that con- flitute the upper extremities. In treating each of thefe points feparately, we fhall point out the method of cure adapted to the nature of the mif» chief produced by the counter-ftroke, and to the accidental circumftances attending it. This mode of proceeding prefents us with a very natural divihon of the firft part of our efiay. P SECTION. ■ .A ji # w fSECTION I. TO EXPLAIN THE EFFECTS OF COUNTER-STROKES ON THE SEVERAL PIECES CONSTITUTING THE LOWER EXTREMITIES, AND THE MODE OF CURE ADAPTED TO THE Mo FaLLS upon the feet, and leaps, being the mod: ordinary caufes of the violent counter-drokes which the lower extremities fometimes fuffer, it is natural that the effe&s which this caufe may produce upon the parts mod: contiguous to thofe which receive the fhock, fhould fird engage our attention ; fuch as thofe which concur in the formation of the ancle joint. The manner in which the lower extremities of the bones of the lea- are articulated laterally with the adragalus, the extent of furface which this bone prefents to the articulating cavity which receives its upper part, the motion of the other bones of the tarfus with which it is articulated, the great number of ligaments which unite thefe bones to each other, every circumdance fliews us, on the part of nature, a multiplicity of contrivances employed to elude, in the bed: manner, the effects of coun- ter-drokes in the articulation of the leg with the tarfus ; infomuch, that although, in leaps or falls upon the feet, it be the joint neared to the P 2 partON THE EFFECTS OT 104 part receiving the fhock, it feldom fuffers any injury from it, this joint hath iometimes, however, experienced milchiefs originating from iuch a caufe. A young man, in leaping from about eight feet high, having refted much more on the left, than on the right foot, felt, at the inftant, a pain, which though not violent, was fucceeded by a numbnefs, and a little difficulty in motion. The vivacity of youth made him pay little attention to thefe lymptoms which were at firft flight; but the pain, as well as the difficulty of motion afterwards increafing, and the foot being much fwelled about the joint, he applied to a furgeon, though not till about two months after the accident. Every mode of relief fiuppolcd to be beft adapted to the cafe was tried in vain for four months ; the mil- chief increafed. Several abfcefl'es were formed in the vicinity of the joint, which being opened, were found to communicate with the infide of the articular cavity, into which the probe might be eafily palled. The remedies mod proper for the patient in his prefent ftate, having been tried without effedl, and the fever increafing, it was refolved to amputate his leg. Upon examining the joint, I found the aftragalus, and the arti- culating furfaces of the bones of the lep, affected with caries. A few bleedings in the firft inftance, above all things reft, and the application of refolutive fpirituous topics to the part, would certainly have prevented thole lymptoms which led to the amputation of the limb ; thefe are the means at leaft, which I have always employed, with the greatefl fuccefs, in limilar cafes. It mu ft, however, be acknowledged, that fpirituous refolutive topics are not always proper. They fhould be laid afide whenever the pain is conliderable, and cataplafms made of the pulp of emollient plants fhould be fubflituted for them; and when the pain is afluaged, embrocations with the faturnine foap may be ufed, or comprefles dipt in water quickened with lea fait, and. with fait ammoniac, to which a little brandy being added, may be applied to the part. It is very unfrequent in leaps or falls on the feet, attended with bad fymp- toms, that the foot fhould have borne perpendicularly enough on the ground, to occafion thefe fymptoms always to arife from the effe&s of counter-COUNTER-STROKES, 105 counter-drokes in the joint : if the foot be twided ever fo little to one fide, there will be, an extenfion of the ligaments on the oppofite fide ; there will be, what is called a wrench, and this accident can at mod only be reckoned an effect of the counter-flroke taken in its mod extenfive fenfe: the curative indications are, however, the fame as thole which have been jud mentioned. I fhall only obferve, that whenever, notwithdanding the ufe of thefe means, there fhall remain, after the lhock in the joint with extenfion and bruife of the ligaments, a permanent dififnefs and fwelling of the furrounding parts, oily and mucilaginous liniments, fuch as thofe of the unguentum althceae, animated however with a fmall quantity of brandy, may be tried with effect ; or liniments made with the marrow of animals, quickened alfo with the addition of fome fpirituous topic. The part may likewife be bathed in tripe liquor, or in warm animal blood; and if all thefe remedies fhould prove infufficient to redore the joint to its fupple- nefs, and to diffipate the fwelling of the ligamentous and tendinous parts that furround it, no delay mud be ufed in pumping artificially upon the part with hot water animated with fea fait and fait ammoniac ; or in fend- ing the patient to the waters of Aix-la-chappelle, Bourbon, Bourbonne, or any other of the fame kind. In cafes of relaxation of the ligaments, and habitual pain in the parts about the joint, with a partial anchylofis, complaints which are alfo often the confequence of counter-drokes, I have likewife ufed the following remedy with much fuccefs. Let the joint be furrounded with a bag full of plaider of Paris in powder, to which a fourth part of fea fait and of lalt ammoniac mud be added, taking care to heat the bag before its application, which mud be frequently renewed. 1 have alfo employed with effedf, a cataplafm made with the pulp of the roots of the confolida major, mixt up with honey, in equal parts, and fpread upon tow. What is here prelcribed for the ancle joint, is equally pro- per for the other parts of the body, whenever the effedls of counter-drokes fhall leave fymptoms behind them which may require the ufe of fuch means. I fhall .therefore avoid repeating them, and fhall onlv hereafter indicate thole remedies that are the bed calculated to relieve the urgent fymptoms,ON THE EFFECTS OF io6 fymptoms, taking it for granted, that the cafes, in which the application of any of the different topics here propofed may be of advantage, will not be overlooked. The counter-ftroke in the ancle joint, may alfo give rife to a fraflure of the fibula, the lower extremity of which, being forced a little to one fide in an oblique fall on the feet, refills, while the weaker part of the bone gives way and is fradlured, without however occafioning a luxation of the foot iideways. 1 have met with more than one inftance of l'uch fra&urcs ; for which reafon, in all accidents of a fall upon the feet from any height, or even of a wrench, we muff always examine- whether the in- jury we perceive about the joint, he not complicated with a fracture of the fibula, it is rather difficult to difeover this accident, when the lower part of the leg has begun to fwell ; the turning of the foie of the foot a little inwards, may be the tffedl of the extenfion of the ligaments, or of adiafta- lis, and not be an indication of the fracture of the fibula, which we mull endeavour to find out by fome more certain figns. The beft way of doing this, is to grafp the lower part of the leg with one hand, while, with the other, we move the tarlus to each fide ; and with a little patience and habit, we fhall diflinguifh the crepitation of the bone, which is the pathognomic fign of the fraflure. The following fa<5t will fhew how neceflary it is to make this ditcovery. A mafon, having made a falle ftep, felt an acute pain about the external ancle, which he thought to be merely the confequence of a flight fprain, and paid no gieat attention to it; he even continued to work, notwithftanding the fwelling which came on the part, and the increafe of the pain, which however became at length fo violent, that he was forced to give over work on the third day after the accident; but not having recourfe to any chirurgical afiiftance, he abftained only partially from motion, and applied, merely according to his own ideas, different poultices upon the part. At length being obliged to come to the hofpital, he met with every affiftance which his cafe required; but it was no longer time to think of difeovering the fracture, the fwel- Jing was confiderable, and already announced a fuppuration formed about the joint, which foon manifefted itfelf on the application of remed’es pro- per \107 COUNTER-STROKES. per to forward it. The abfcefs was properly opened, and the furgeon, examining with his finger the bottom of it, found that the external ancle' was broken off. Notwithflanding the good confiitution of the patient, the free openings that were made, and the careful ufe 'of all the means that were the heft calculated for his relief, yet he went through a feries of accidents, which obliged him, about two months after, to fubmit tor the amputation of his leg, as the only way to fave his life. • But let us fuppofe that we fhould be called in time, and that the frac- ture of the fibula fhould be difcovered, the treatment proper for fuch an accident is too well known for me to dwell upon it here. Let me only be allowed to obferve, that in the firfl inflance, we muH carefully avoid applying a circular bandage on the fradlured part* It is, indeed, evident that fuch a mode of proceeding tends only to pufh the fractured parts of the fibula inwards againft the tibia, which is by no means the intention 'we fhould have in view: on the contrary, we muH endeavour to keep them in appofition to each other, by preferving the natural diflance be- tween the two bones ; and in order to effedl this, we muff firfl place, both on the outfide and on the infide, on the fpot that anfwers to the interofleous fpace, a flip of linen of a certain thicknefs, or a narrow fplint well co- vered, in order that the circular bandage to be applied immediately over, may prefs a fufficient quantity of flefh between the tibia and fibula, to keep the fradlured parts of the latter in exadt appofition, and at a proper diflance from the tibia. This mode of binding up the limb, anfwers nearly the fame purpofe, as if the circular bandage were put round the fingle bone fradlured, which cannot be done. It is from having been witnefs, both to the accidentsiwhich have fometimes fucceeded the imme- diate application of the circular rollers in fradlures of the fibula^, and to the good effedts of fplints firft applied, that I infill upon this precaution, which is alfo indicated in compound fradlures of the leg, which are them- felves often the refult of counter-Arokes. A man carrying a load, upon a Hoping ground, made a hafly Hep, or rather a kind of fpring, in which the whole weight of his body bore 5 almoflio8 ON THE EFFECTS OF # almoft entirely upon the right leg; the motion, lofmg itfelf in the an- cle-joint, produced no apparent mifchief there; but the tibia, the fibres of which are naturally rather arched forwards, gave way, and was bro- ken juft below its middle. The upper end of the fradured bone pierced the integuments, and purfuing the oblique direction of its motion, fixed itfelf in the ground. This was a kind of counter-ftroke, the mechanifm of which is very evident, and for which it is ealy to point out the means of cure ; they are the fame as thofe that are proper for every compound fradure of the leg, though arifing from another caufe. Accordingly, without conlider- ing the mechanifm or caufe of the fradure, I only attended to the cir- cumftance of reducing it properly; this was done very exadly, after having previoufly fet the integuments free, which were much upon the ftretch. After this, the eighteen-tailed bandage was applied according to the rules of art; the patient was blooded, and reftrained to a proper diet. At the ufual period the fuppuration came on, which from the fourth to the eleventh day, was plentiful. The portion of the tibia that was bare, had no unfavourable afped ; the patient’s pulfe and counte- nance were good ; notwithftanding which he began to experience fome ihiverings ; on the eleventh day he grew delirious ; and on the twelfth, he had fome convulfive motions in the lower jaw ; a fever came on ; a change took place in the limb ; the fymptoms were all aggravated, and he died on the fourteenth day from his accident A ftudent of fixteen years of age, in leaping a ditch, fradured his leg by the fame mechanifm as the man who was the fubjed of the preceding obfervation. The bones had alfo pierced the (kin, and the youth being carried home to his parents, the fradure was very exadly reduced ; he was blooded, and confined to a proper diet. He was attended very a(- fiduoufly by one of my brethren in the profeflion, and myfelf; on the twelfth day, he was again feized with convulfive fpafms in the lower jaw, accompanied with an obfeure delirium ; and on the thirteenth, he died. He is one of the three patients fpoken of in the preceding note. The109 COUNTER-STROKES. The tibia, in particular, may experience, from the effects of a counter- ftroke, another kind of fracture, of which the other-bones are certainly but little fulceptible. At leaf! it does not appear impoffible to me, but that, in a violent fhock on the tibia, the compact fubftance of this bone may refill, while there may be a frafture in the tranfverfe bony fibres, which compofe either the fpongy or the reticular fubftance. May not a rupture of fiome of the fibres of this laft fubftance be occasioned by a fall on the feet, or by leaping from a certain height, while the body of the bone fhall remain entire ? May not an injury of this kind give rife to an abfcefs in the cavity of the bone, and to all the mifchiefs which mull attend fuch a complaint ? The following fad feems to fpeak in favour of what is here advanced. A young man, of five and twenty years of age, having received a violent blow on the broad lurface of the left tibia, had nothing more than a contufion externally without fracture, which foon gave way to fpiri- tuous topics that were applied to it. He ftill continued, however, to feel an obtufe kind of pain, which feemcd to come from the infide of the bone. He paid little attention to it for four or five months ; but the pain, which then became more acute, was accompanied with a fwelling of the bone, which increafing gradually, produced an inflammation of the periofteum and integuments, the matter of which burfting of itfelf, left a fiftulous opening externally (fK By palling a ptobe into this open- ing, it was found to penetrate into the cavity of the hone. The patient being properly prepared, the exoftofed part of the tibia was laid bare throughout its whole extent; the crown of a trepan was applied over the fiftulous orifice in the bone, and the parts furrounding the exoftofis, were removed by the gouge, chiflel, and mallet. By thefe different pro- ceedings, an opening was made through the bone, (which, though ex- oftofed, was very hard) fufficiently large, to enable the operator to ex- tract a piece of bone, eighteen lines in length, which being infulated in the medullary cavity, afforded us an inftance of a true internal exfo- liation CsJ. WithON THE EFFECTS OF the TIO With refpeCt to'Ample and compound fraCturcs of the leg, they arc moft commonly the cffeCt of counter-ltrokes, (nice all thofe which hap- pen in the inflance of falls, are feldom the relult of a blow immediately applied to the part of the bone that gives way. But as they require no other treatment than that which is equally applicable to fractures in ge- neral, I fhall proceed immediately to conlider the effects of counter- ftrokes on the joint of the knee. Although this joint may fometimes be expofed to the effeCts of counter- ftrokes, it mud however be acknowledged, that, in cafes of falls on the feet, the great furface by which-the os femoris and the tibia are in con- tact with each other, and the intervening cartilage which is met with in the joint between thefe two bones, are contrivances well calculated to elude the effects of counter-drokes which the joint might differ. The circumdance which renders thefe effeCts lefs frequent, and lefs to be ap- prehended,' is, that the (hock muft be very violent in order to produce any mifehief; and this could not be in the indance of leaps, or falls on the feet, ualefs the whole weight of the trunk bore directly upon the articulating furfaces of the tibia ; that is to fay, unlefs the thighs and the trunk, at die inftant of the fhock, fhould maintain that rectilinear pofition which would make the line of gravity of the upper parts hear upon the articulating furfaces of that bone. It is evident that l'ucli a pofition mud be very difficult in a part which has fo many joints and bendings as the trunk, and the inflections of which depend upon fuch an infinite number of mufcles. But ftippofing even this pofition to exift, the effeCts of it would not be felt in the knee joint; they would rather take place in the articulation of the thigh with the os innominatum : the head of the thigh bone might be feparated, and its neck fraCturcd, on account of the oblique direction with which the weight of the body bears upon thefe parts ; or if the fhock were not violent enough to pro- duce fuch effeCts, it might occafion a contufion in this joint. It might even happen, from the pofition above fuppofed, that the motion of the head upon the fpinal column being fuddenly /topped, might occafion a mortal commotion in the brain, even in thofe cales where the /hock ofCOUNTER-STROKES. iij the os femoris upon the tibia would not be fufficient to produce the leafc mifchief at the part where thefe bones are connected. Notwith- ffanding this,'tHe knee joint is much expofed to the effects of counter- Ur okes ; but they are chiefly occaffoned by falls upon the knee, or blows upon the patella, Reafon admits the poffibilityof counter-ffrokes with bad conlequences, in this part, and facts confirm it. A lad, of thirteen or fourteen years of age, having received a blow with a wooden fhoe on the knee, while the leg was half bent, the pon- tuflon was fcarce felt externally, notwithflanding which, he experienced at tiie inffanf, a fharp pain, which feemed to come from the infide of the joint. This pain was loon relieved ; but he ftill continued to feel it in fome degree, and a tumour appeared, which increafed gradually, with a difficulty of walking. A fever came on, and the pain grew more violent about a month after the accident. It was at this period that the patient, who had hitherto received fcarce any affifl:ance,came into the Hofpital, and was under my care. A few days after, the fluctuation being evident in a certain extent of the tumour, it was opened, and a confiderable quantity of very fluid matter was difcharged. It was thought at firfc, that it came only from under the integuments ; but becoming more and more ferous afterwards, and the wound not healing, mifchief was fuf- peCted within the joint; and in older to determine the point, the bottom of the abfcefs was completely laid open ; upon which a fmall finus, lead- ing into the joint, manifelted itfelf. In vain, after this difcovery, were all pofiible means tried to cure this young man ; deterflve injections, a proper pofition of the limb, dilatation and opening of the capfular liga- ment, every thing proved unfuccefsful. It being no longer poffible to preferve the patient’s life without amputating the thigh, which his parents would not confent to, he died fome time after. The joint being opened, manifefted a very advanced caries of the articulating condyles of the leg and thigh, with an almoft total deftruction of the crucial liga- ments. The internal furface of the patella was affeCted only with a fu- Q2 perficialm ON THE EFFECTS OF perficiai caries; and its external l'urface, which had received the flroke, had experienced no kind of alteration. Effects limilar, or nearly lo, of counter-ltrokes in the knee joint, would undoubtedly occur more frequently, after violent falls on the knees, or fharp flrokes on the patella, if proper means, which readily prelent themfelves to the furgeon, were not uled to prevent thel'e conle- quences. Reft is the firft of the remedies which it is proper to have recourle to in thefe cafes; and the lingle precaution of avoiding, for a few days, every kind of motion of the knee joint, aflifted with two or, three bleedings, and the ufe of fome emollient and anodine embrocations, fuch, for inftance, as the balfamum tranquillum, or the application of fome refolutive cataplafms, would probably have prevented the mifehiefo which I have juft been giving an account of. But the following cafe, is one, which more particularly proves, that falls upon the knees, do not always confine their effects to injuries within fide the joint. • A woman, about fifty years of age, w'as brought to the Hofpital after a fall upon the right knee; the patella wras not fractured, but the parts fur- rounding it were much fwelled ; and the pain Ihe felt in the motions of flexion and extenfion ('h-) , might have been l'uppofed to arife only from the violent contufion which the external parts had fuffered. By careful exa- mination, however, and repeated trials, I dilcovered an evident fracture of the lower part of the thigh bone, or rather ‘a feparation of its con- dyles. Fractures of the thigh very often aiife from a fimilar caufe ; the kind of arch formed by the thigh bone, renders it, notwithflanding its ftrength, very liable to frafiture, when in falling from a certain height, the inferior extremity of this bone is fuddenly checked, while its upper part is ftill prefled upon by the weight of the whole body in motion- The mechanifm of the fracture which then takes place, is eafily under- flow! ; and the method of cure which it requires. It is exactly the fame as if the fracture had been produced by a blow applied immediately to dieCOUNTER-STROKES. the broken part. The treatment proper for thefe 'accidents is too well known, to make it neceffary for me to enter into any details upon the hibjedh There is one obfervation, however, to be made ; which is, that in a fracture from a coimter-ftroke, the bone being broken at the inflan t that the force which occafons the fracture, is fuperior to the re-' finance of the bone, the reft of the motion may be fpent on other parts ; while there are cafes, where the fhock, being applied immediately to the part where the fracture happens, continues to exert all its a ft ion. upon the fpot itfelf, after having produced the principal injury we have been mentioning. This circumstance may deferve fome. confideration reflect- ing; the cure of thefe accidents. Although moft of the fractures" happening to the body of the thigh bone may be the effect of counter-ffrokes, they are not, however, always owing' to this caufe. But the fame cannot be laid of fractures which lrap- ° pen to the neck of this bone, fince thefe are never the confequence of a blow received immediately upon the part. The circumftances under which this frafture ufually occurs, demon ft rate fufficiently that it muft always be the effeft of a counter-feroke. It hath often been produced by a fall upon the great trochanter ; and it is fometimes occafioned by a fall on the feet, or on the knees. It may be obferved however, in this re- fpedl, that the fradture of the neck of the thigh bone will fcarcely happen, if the two knees, or the two feet, bear at once and equally u.pon the ground, even fuppofmg the body to be maintained in that flraight line which would make the whole weight of the upper parts prefs upon the heads of the thigh bones ; and this, iif, becaufe the effect being divided between the two thigh bones, would be leffened ; and adly, becaufe this effort being conveyed obliquely over each of the heads of thefe bones, the offa innominata may, in fome mealure, glide over them UN a circum- flance which will render the fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone more difficult. But when the weight of the body bears only upon one extremity, although the fall be not even from any great height, yet the motion of the upper parts being entirely fpent upon the neck of the thigh bone, which is in an oblique direction to the line of gravity paffing throughii4 ON THE EFFECTS OF through the head of that bone ; and the os innominatum not bcimr able to o t O glide over that head, becaufe it prefles upon it perpendicularly, this gives us the reafon, why the neck of the thigh bone is more reedih bro- ken, under this circumftance than under the former. Suppol'c the quan- tity of motion to be abforbed were the fame in both inftances, a fall, or a violent blow on the great trochanter, may likewife, and in fact often doth produce this frafture. In the accident of falling on the feet or on the knees, the inferior extremity of the thigh bone being flopt, while the head of it is greatly prefled by the upper parts in motion, tends more and more to form the arch, and breaks the bone at its neck, where the arch is already begun. In the inftance of a fall on the great trochanter, on the contrary, the head of the bone refilling in its cavity, while the moll prominent part is ftricken externally, the intermediate piece, which is the neck, tends to refume the ftraight line, and is fractured by a mecha- nifim the reverfe of the former. But flill the accident is the fame in both cafes, and requires the fame treatment. The proper modes of re- ducing this kind of fracture, and thofe which can heft maintain the redu- ced pieces in their fituation, are then to be adopted. Thefe are fully dif- cufi'ed in Mr. Sabatier’s paper in the fourth volume of the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery, at Paris, I fhall only add to the wife precepts contained in this paper, that befides the junk placed on the inter- nal part of the thigh, it will be proper to place two other junks on the outfide, which extending from beyond the feet, proceed fir above the hips, palling one above, the other below the great trochanter. The up- \ per extremity of thefe junks being fafiened .by a bandage pafled round the body and the hips, the motions of the thigh are by this contrivance admirably well confined. By this additional precaution, accompanied with the mold abfolute reft, 1 have fuccceded in curing, with tolerable cafe, fiome fra&ures of the neck of the thigh bone, which have left only a very flight degree of lamenefs after them. It will be proper alfo to recol- lect, that this fracture may be complicated with contufion in the joint, or on the great trochanter; and that this complication requires attentions which I fhall have occafion to fpeak of hereafter. ItUS COUNTER-STROKES. It njuft net however be fuppofed, that a fall, or even a coniiderable fnock on the great trochanter, are always capable of producing a frac- ture of the neck of the thigh bone. In order to accomplifti this, it is ne- celiary that the direction of the (hock (hould coincide with the force ot the motion impreiTed upon the part, if this motion be made in the direc- tion of the fibres of the neck of the thigh bone ; otberwife, the head of this bone would fooner be crufhed againft its cavity, or the cavity itfelf would be broken, rather than the neck of the bone. But if the direction or fum total of the motion be l'uch, that the fraclure cannot be the refult, then the counter-ftroke produces another kind of injury, frequently more dangerous than the fraclure ; that is, the contufion of the joint, and par- ticularly the fqueezing or bruiting of fome of the parts that are contained in it. The round or inter-articular ligament, which, in progreffive mo- tion, is never fqueezed, may become fo in a fall, or in a (hock upon the great trochanter, when the direction of the motion tends forcibly to pufh the head of the femur immediately upon the part from whence this ligament proceeds. The fynovial glands, which form a confiderabie mafs in this joint, may alfo be roughly fqueezed, between that part of the cavity which they occupy, and the head of the bone driven with force againft them ; hence will arife accidents proportioned to tile nature of tjie tftjury done to the joint. In the firft inftance, pain, fvvelling and inflammation of the parts con- tained within the joint, always manifeft themfelves, accompanied with a difficulty of motion in the limb ; and the intenfenefs of the fymptoms is proportioned to the violence of the fnock, and to the greater or lefs irritable ftate of the patient. The pain is often acute in the beginning, and is attended with a total inability to move the limb. At other times, the pain is dull, fo as, at firft, fcarcely to engage the attention of pa- tients : they continue to walk, though with fome difficulty; yet ftill they keep upon their feet, and fometimes perfift in hard labour. This difference may arife from the nature of the parts bruifed. I (hould imagine, that when the ligament is bruifed, the pain and other fymptoms are more violent, and that the contrary happens when the fynovial glands haveON THE EFFECTS OF u6 have partaken of the injury. The complaint which is the confluence of this laffc accident, may be ranked in the clafs of chronic diforders. The glands tumefy, and fometimes fecretea fynovia, winch partaking of the di(tempered Ante of the organs that fupply it, is not entirely abforbed, and may produce a dropfy of the joint, a partial anchylolis, or a luxation from relaxation^ ; or el le this liquor degenerating, becomes acrimonious, deftroys the cartilage lining the furface of the joint, and the head of the bone; the articular and caipular ligaments are corroded with caries, and in procels of time, an abfeefs is formed externally, the opening of which ferves only to haften the death of thole who are affetted with it. It may alio be prefumed, that the contufion of the cartilages themfelves, and that of the bones, which may very polliblv be the confequenoe of a v iolent Ihockin the joint, may fometimes be the caufcof all the mifehiefs within. Thofe cafes, undoubtedly, in which the progrefs of the iymp- toms is very flow, afford us inftances of limilar contulions. The follow- ing fatt leems to corroborate the preceding observations, A woman, about eight and twenty years of age, laden with a bafket full of bottles, having jumped down a few flairs in going into a cellar, preferved the center of gravity of the upper parts upon the left thigh and leg fo well, that five kept herfelf from falling; but fhe experienced, in the infldc of the joint of the hip, a violent lhock, which was, how- ever, attended only with a very bearable degree of pain, flnee flic was able to continue her ordinary work for more than a fortnight, without complaining. But fhe flill felt, in walking, a pain which gradually in- creafed, from the continual exercife (he was obliged to ule in her capacity of fervant: the difficulty of motion increafed with the pain ; and both the one and the other, three months after the accident, were grown io much worfe, that the woman was no longer able to lupport herfelf upon that limb. At this period (he came into the hofpital where I attended; different embrocations were ufed to the upper part of the thigh, but with- out any effect; refolutive, anodyne, and maturating cataplafms were then applied, becaufe a tumour manifefted itfelf at the upper poflerior, and 4 external117 COUNTER-STROKES. external part of the thigh, which feemed tending to fuppuration. A fever came on ; and when the abfcefs became evident, all the, openings and counter-openings were made, which the finufles the pus had formed, required; the matter which came out, had no kind of offenlive fmell : it brought away along with it fome fmall bony particles, and an oleaginous fluid floated on the furface; the incifions were lengthened as much as it was thought neceflary, fetons were palled, and during the courfe of the treatment, vulnerary and deterfive injections were tried, fuch as were imagined to be bell fuited to the Hate of the parts. At different intervals, fmall portions of bone came away, feparated either from the head of the thigh bone, or from the cavity of the joint, into which feveral of the linufles penetrated. A flow fever, and a marafmus, which is its ufual attendant, dellroyed the patient, between three and four months after her admiffion into the hofpital. Upon examining the feat of the difeafe, I found the capfular ligament almoll dellroyed, the round ligament totally con- fumed, the head- of the thigh bone carious in all its furface, and even to a confiderable depth in its center; the cavity of the joint was alfo attacked with caries throughout its whole extent ; and lallly, its cartilaginous border was completely dellroyed. The following is an inllance of mif- chiefs nearly limilar, produced by a fall upon the great trochanter. A man about forty years of age, having llipt down upon the great trochanter, felt a lharp pain which obliged him to flay at home for a few days ; but the pain being relieved, he chofe to return to his bufinefs, and walkabout, which however he could not do without pain, or without fome kind of difficulty, which he endeavoured to drive againll for about a fortnight; but the pain encrealing, he was obliged to take to his bed, and to apply for relief in the country where he was. All the means em- ployed during three months, were ineffe&ual ;; the upper, pollerior, lateral, and external part of the thigh was much fwoln ; and every mo- tion attempted to be given to this extremity, was very painful to him. When he was brought into the hofpital^ it was foon perceived that there was matter formed in the vicinity of the joint; fo that the furgeon formed a very unfavourable prognoftic of the cafe. Several inffances having Ihewn R him,118 ON THE EFFECTS O I him, that thefe difeafes were incurable, in which ever way thev were treated, he had almofl refolved to leave this cafe to the elforts of nature alone, The fluctuation of the pus being, however, manifeft, he deter- mined to give vent to it by a luitable opening ; the pus which came out at firft, had no fort of bad Imell, as in the preceding observation ; but that which flowed at the fublequent dreifings, was both great in quantitv, and ofFenfive; leveral linuffes led to the head of the thisfii bone, and into the infide of the joint. The patient did not long lurvive this opening ; the fever increafed, the difeharge became ferous and very feetid, and he died three weeks after the operation. Upon examining the joint, the fame mifehiefs nearly were found as in the preceding obl'ervation ; only the capfular ligament Aill exified entire, at the internal part of the thigh ; but it was much thickened and inflamed there. In 1762, a man, of forty-five years of age, having fallen upon his right knee, at the time that he was heavy laden, could neither rile up again, nor lupport himlelf upon his thigh. Being carried home, fome means were tried for his relief, notwithstanding which, the pain, with the inability of walking, fiill lublifted. After he had kept his bed about a month, he began to walk with crutches; a fwelling came on in the neighbourhood of the joint, which terminated in an abfeefs that burfi of itfeif, about a year after, and left two fiftulous openings, which gave vent to a greater or lefs quantity of matter; frequently thele orifices were even clofed, and only burfi: open again, when there was a certain quantity of .the pus collected. Three years having elapfed in this fiate, without his having been able to make any ufe of his limb, he came to the Hofpital, having at the upper and back part of the thigh, a very conliderablc collection of matter, which not finding an ifluc through the openings already mentioned, was let out by a limple punCture with a lancet, that the patient might, if pofiible, avoid the melancholy late of thole who had been treated in a contrary manner. T he matter, which flowed in great quantity, brought away with it, feveral fragments of hone ; and the new opening added to the former, another fifiulous orifice, which favoured the habitual difeharge of the matter. The patient fur- vivedliq COUNTER-STROKES. vfved' the operation ten months ; and upon examining the part, the head of the thigh bone was found completely foldered with its articular ca- vity ; each of them prel'enting alternate afperities and cavities, which formed reciprocal indentations, as was evident, in feparating this con- nexion by force. I fhall farther obferve, in this refpeci, that the thigh bone was anchylofed at a right angle with the trunk ; a circumhance which had undoubtedly proceeded from the fituation. of the patient, whofe head and trunk had been always much raifed. I could adduce fe- veral other in fiances of fimilar difeafes of the joint of the thigh with the- os innominatum, which had been the confequence of falls, either on the feet, or on the great trochanter, if thele inflances could give us any bet- ter information refpeXing the treatment neceffary to be followed in l'uch cafes : the account of mifchiefs that have been obferved, is undoubtedly ufeful, inafmuch as it may fuggeff a rational and more certain plan of cure. But there is no need here of a greater number of faXs, to deter- mine the curative method to be purfued, in all circumftances analogous to thofe which 1 have juft fubmitted to the confideration of the Academy. ‘ > i When once we are acquainted with the mechanifm of the counter- ftrokes which the inlide of the cotyloide cavity may experience ; when we know the direction of the motion which has been impreffed on the parts by the body producing the fhock, and can eflimate nearly the quan- tity of this motion ; and when we are converfant with the nature of the different, parts which may be injured, contufed, and fqueezed by the fhock; we are then able to determine, for the cafe that prefents, a me- thod of cure founded on rational principles. Belides, the accidents which the three patients have buffered, of whofe difeafe I have given a fuccinX account,. are fully fufficient to explain the curative indications to be pur- fued in all cafes of a fimilar nature. All the mifchiefs confecutive to the counter-ftroke in the joint, when- ever it doth not produce frabture, can only proceed from the contufiom and collifion of the parts contained in it; but this collifion and contufion can only give rife to a pain more or lefs acute, to a fwelling and an in- R z flammation120 ON THE EFFECTS OF ftammation more or lefs confiderable. The methods of cure to he em- ployed in fucli circumftances, will be every thing that can alleviate the pain, and prevent the lwelling and inflammation of the injured and bruifed parts. Bleeding, reft, and a regimen, are very proper to fulfill this double indication ; but the bleeding muft be repeated feveral times, and even at fhort intervals, if the pain ftiould be violent. Heft muft be abfolute, that is to fay, that all kind of motion of the thigh upon the trunk, or of the trunk upon the thigh, muft be prohibited till the time for the coming on of the bad fvmptoms be paft; becaufe however flight may be the friflion of the confuted and inflamed parts upon each other, it cannot but be extremely painful. With refpeft to the diet, that muft be very.ftr’nSUy obferved. Jt is undoubtedly for want of having taken thel'e precautions in the firft period of counter-ftrokes in the joint of the thigh, that feveral patients have experienced that long feries of accidents that has brought them to the grave. Nothing is therefore more eflfential than to recommend lying in bed to thofe who have received, by counter-ftroke, violent fhocks in the joint of the hip, and to confine the limb in fucli a manner, that the head of the bone fhall not be able to play in its cavity, more efpecially when motion is extremely painful. This precaution, however, will not prevent us from having recourfe to repeated bleedings, to a diet more or lefs rigid, and to refolutive topics applied round the joint. Although we can have no great dependence upon thefe topics, on account of the depth of the parts on which they are to aft, yet they arc not to be negledted. Spirituous, refolutive applications, for inftance, may perhaps convey their effefts farther .than we fuppofe. It is by purfuing this kind of treatment, which is that of all well-informed pra&itioners, that 1 have feen many of thefe fhocks, though violent, unattended with any ferious conlequence ; while others, which in the firft inftance feemed to require no attention, have produced the greateft mifehiefs, for want of having taken the above-mentioned precautions in time. Reft, above all, is the firft of remedies; and we cannot be too attentive in fulfilling this curative indi- cation. Suppofing121 counter-stroke s. S'uppofing however, that thefe means of cure fhould not have been employed in time, or that they fhould have been ineffeduaJ, and that, to the primary accidents of contufion in the hip joint, there fhould fucceed an abfcefs in the eavity, with deftruclion of the ligaments, caries of the articular furfaces, &c., how are we to proceed in this cafe ? Mull: the patient be left to his deplorable fate, and mull art remain inactive under fuch circumflances ? We fhould be aimoft tempted to anfwer in the affirmative, from what we have feen of the inefficacy of its efforts in feveral of thefe cafes. Art here confifts lefs in doing, than in avoiding to do what may be done ; for a cure of this kind can only be the work of nature. The in fiance we have given of the foldering of the thigh-bone with the os innominatum, ferves at lead to fhew us one of the refources which nature referves to herfelf in defperate cafes. Suppuration having once taken place in the itifide of the joint, the foft and flexible parts which border it and maintain the bones in their fituation, having been deflroyed, nature hath no means of prefervation left, but to form, by a complete anchylofis, one continued bone between the trunk and the thigh ; and flie tends to this end by the very mechanifm, by which the deftrudlioh of the injured parts is effe&ed. In confequence of inflammations and fuppurations formed in the joints, the ligamentous parts are infenfibly confumed, the bony and cartilaginous parts grow carious, and exfoliate in the fame manner, and the fragments of them are drenched in the pus which is daily forming in the neighbouring parts attacked with fuppura- tion. This pus, while it is not fufceptible of fpontaneous alteration, from the accefs of the air into the cavities where it is collected, is for the mod part a mild and beneficial fluid, which, far from re-ading upon the bony and cartilaginous parts, takes charge, on the contrary, of their fragments, and ferves as a vehicle to carry them out, after having, undoubtedly, contributed to detach them from the mafs that fupplied them. NowON THE EFFECTS OF 122 . Now we know, that when the organic ad ion of the veflels of the found bone hath accomplifhed, either in one piece, or in detached portions, the exfoliation of the bony parts that were dil'eafed, and that this exfoliation has been removed by art, or carried away by the pdwers of nature alone ; we know, I fay, that the found bony texture remaining, endeavours to unite itfelf, either to the neighbouring flefh, the nature of which it hath almoft adopted, or to other bony portions which may have undergone the fame changes. It is therefore no way furprizing, according to the pre- ceding obfervation, that the whole furface of the head of the thigh bone, and of the cavity which received it, having exfoliated by degrees, and the fragments of this exfoliation having been continually carried away by the difeharge, thefe furfaces fhould have been foldered together, fo as to make but one common bone. Would it have been more furprizing if this great efFed had been accomplifhed without the dcflrudion of the patient ? Can we be certain that the patient, from his conftitution, was in circumfiances the moft favourable for the luccels of the event ? Can we be certain, in a word, that the operations of nature, as well as thole of art, had not been counteracted by imprudent motions, as much du- ring the three years that this man, who w'as very poor, languifhed at home, as during the ten months he lived in the Holpital: Difeafes of this nature do not therefore feem to me entirely beyond the reach of art. The long fpace of time the patient lived after the evacua- tion of the pus by the hflulous openings, compared to the time tliofe pa- tients lived, in whom large incilions were made to procure this evacua- tion, feems, in fome meafure, to indicate the proper mode of proceeding in fuch cafes. From tills inftance, and others, which I cannot quote upon this occafion, becaufe they have no connedion with the queflion of counter-firokes, I fhould imagine, that when the original accidents have unfortunately failed of effedual relief, and that an abfcels has been formed in the joint, which fhall have manifefled itfelf externally by evi- dent figns ; I fhould imagine, 1 fry, that we fhould not be in hafle to give vent to it; and if it fhould be thought indifpenfably neceffary to let out the pus, this fhould only be done by pundure with a trocar. The pus, 6 in-COUNTER-STROKES, l>3 in thefe cafes, feems to be a kind of bath for the bone, to which it owes all the advantages we have been defcribing. So little fhould we confider the pus as a noxious fluid, that, in thefe infiances, I have never found it tainted with the leaf!: fmell, even when I have let it out after the collec- tion had been formed feveral months, and in quantities fo considerable as to amount to two or three pints, among which feveral fragments of bone have been found floating. But it is neceffary to repeat, becaufe it is an inftrudtive obfervation, that in lefs than three days, when thefe abfceffes have been largely opened, the matter, which at the time of opening was always of a proper confidence and perfectly devoid of fmell, has become thin and very foetid. Perhaps by adopting the method I have propofed, with refpedt to the time and manner of opening thefe immenfe abfeefTes which are formed in confequence of violent contufions ill the joint of the hip and by making the patient abftain from all motion which might impede the operations of nature and thofe of art, the complete anchy- lofis of the articulating furfaces might be obtained, which, in the def- perate cafes we are fpeaking of, is the only refource we have to look up to. To what has been faid upon this fubjeft, I fhall add, that it would be proper to endeavour to put the lower extremity and the trunk in fuch a poftion with refpedl to each other, that after the formation of the an- chylofis, the latter fhould preferve, as much as poffible, a vertical direc- tion with the limb. SECTION' ; ■ ■ - . * <ON THE EFFECTS OF COUNTER-STROKES. *2$ SECTION II, THE EFFECTS OF COUNTER-STROKES ON THE SEVERAL PIECES THAT COMPOSE THE TRUNK, AND THE TREAT- MENT PROPER FOR THEM, 'What has juft been faid of the mifchiefs not unfrequently produced on the lower extremities by counter-ftrokes, leads us the more naturally to examine what may be the effect of counter-ftrokes on fome parts of the trunk, inafmuch as thefe extremities themfelves are the medium through which the fhock is tranfmitted to thofe parts. It may, indeed, happen, that in falling upon the feet* the thigh bone may reftft, and yet that fome of the lower pieces of the trunk may receive a counter-ftroke capable of being injurious to them. The os innominatum, the os facrum, and the laft of the lumbar vertebra?, are the parts that are mod liable to this accident. If it be impoftible that the os innominatum fhould be frac- tured over the head of the thigh bone, as it may be prefumed, yet that bone may, at leaft, fometimes experience contufions in its cavity; but S thisON THE EFFECTS OF ia6 this accident is included in what I have faid of the mifehiefs that are done to the hip joint, when there is a violent counter-ftroke felt in the cotyloide cavity of the os innominatum. 9 With refpeCt to the os facrum, though articulated by large lateral fur- faces with the ofla innominata ; and though firmly attached to thefe bones by intermediate cartilages, and by very ftrong ligaments, it is neverthe- lefs liable to at leaft partial disjunctions, from the violent counter-ftrokes it fometimes fuffers. We have too many inftances of this to call the. matter in queftion ; befides that, it is fuffleient to examine what happens in fome falls on the feet, to be convinced of the poflibility of a kind of disjunction of the os facrum from the os innominatum. Let us fuppofe that in one of thefe falls the direction of the motion fhall be luch, as that none of the lower parts can have fuffered either inflexion of frac- ture ; in that cafe, all the momentum of the upper parts, multiplied by their weight, is fpent upon the luperior part of the os facrum, which re- ceives a moft violent fhock from above downwards, while the ofla inno- minata remain unmoved. The os facrum is then driven like a wedge be- tween thefe twro bones; but the manner in which their articulating fur- faces are conftrufted, the cartilage which lines them, the connections which unite thefe bones to the os facrum, and the lateral preflure they then exert upon it, by means of the obliquity of the neck of the thigh- bone, are the reafon that none but the moft violent fhocks can produce the kind of disjunction we are fpeaking of; which might however be effected by another mechanifm, if nature had not provided againfl: it. In the cafe we have been fuppofing, the facrum, at the fame time that it is driven as a wedge between the two ofla innominata', endeavours to make a lwing forwards, while it is effectually oppofed, not only by all the ligaments which conneCt it at its upper part to the neighbouring bones, but alfo by the fciatic, and ifchio-facro-fciatic ligaments, which aCting upon the facrum with a lever much longer than that of the power, on account of their attachment to almoft all the lower extremity of this bone, are capable of oppofing with greater force the- fwing forwards, which the fhock, received at its upper part, tends to make it produce whenceCOUNTER-STROKES. 127 whence we perceive how difficult it is, in the circumftance of very rapid motion of the trunk upon the lower extremities, that any mifchiefs ifhould be produced in the parts which concur in the union of the offa innominata with the os facrum, efpecially when both the extremities bear together. But it may happen, that the ihock fhall be fo violent, ,as to elude all the precautions taken by nature, and to produce, even in the cafe here fuppofed, if not a disjunction of the bones, at leaft a divulfion of the liga- ments that conneCt them, a contufion of the cartilages, and of the bones tbemfelves; injuries which almoft always produce very ferious com- plaints ; or it may happen, that the motion of the trunk, being flopped by one of the extremities only, the force fhall be fpent entirely upon the articulating furface of the facrum on one fide, and that in the very difad- vantageous circumftance of that bone being neither preffed upon late- rally, nor fupported by the oppofite fide. Even admitting in this cafe that the velocity of the upper parts, multiplied by their weight, fhould be reduced to a fmall matter when it came to be applied to the os facrum, yet it would not be furprizing, that the parts which flrengthen the arti- culation of this bone, on which the whole effort is fpent, fhould fuffer, at the inflant of the fhock, a very dangerous divulfion. All that has been faid here, is nothing more than an anticipated explanation of the mechanifm by which fliocks, conveyed by a counter-flroke to thefe parts, have given rife to the mifchiefs that have fallen under my notice. A man of forty years of age, having climbed a tree, fell upon his lower extremities from the height of about fifteen feet, and at the inffant of his fall, had no other fenfation than that of a general commotion, ac- companied with a fharp pain at the bottom of the fpine. Being brought home, he would not fubmit to be blooded, and only took a few bottles of vulnerary infufions. The very next day, he went out; the little pain he felt, did not feem to him to merit any attention ; he walked tolerably well for feveral days, and followed his bufinefs as ufuah But about the thirtieth day from his fall, he began to grow lame ; ftill horvever he felt ( S 2 nothing128 ON THE EFFECTS OF nothing more than a dull pain about the region of the os facrum, to- wards the right fide ; the pain increafed, and on the fifty fifth day the difficulty of walking was fo eonfiderable, that he could not do it without a flick ; urged by his complaint, which now began to make him uneafv, he applied for affiflance. Having a flight degree of fever, he was blood- ed ; refl, and the ule of refolutive fomentations, were prel'cribed to him ; and laflly, embrocations made with the martiatum and oil of nutmegs, animated with fait ammoniac ; but this was without any fuccefs, the period of the efficacy of thefe means being pafled. The complaint con- tinued increafing for five months, at the expiration of which, the patient could not bear in the leaft upon the right limb ; the motion of bending the thigh upon the trunk was both extremely painful and difficult ; and a tumour began to manifeft itfeif, which came from under Poupart’s ligament. Such was the flute of the patient when he came to the hof- pital for relief. The hiftory of his difeafe left us no room to doubt of the nature of it, and unfortunately it afforded but a very melancholy prognoflic. Suppu- rating cataplaflns were applied to the incipient tumour, which, during the fpace of three wreeks, increafed but little. He wras then feized with vomitings and hiccoughs, as if he had had a flrangulated rupture. The tumour being fomewhat lengthened towards the infide of the thigh, and there being no doubt of its containing matter, it was opened a few days after ; a large quantity of white inodorous pus was evacuated ; the patient was then free from fever ; he was dreffed with dry lint, and afterwards with digeftive. The pus, which had been at firft white, and devoid of fmell, having become thin and very offenfive, vulnerary, deterfive and fpirituous lotions, were injeCted into the abfeefs ; and the dreflings and injections were more frequently repeated ; but all thefe precautions were fruitlefs, the fever increafed with the putrefaction, and the patient died on the ninth day after the opening. Upon examining the body, all the upper and lateral portion of the facrum on the right fide was found carious, as well as the correfponding partCOUNTER. STROKES. 129 part of the os innominatum. There was an evident reparation between tbefe two bones, and the whole of the facro-iliac fymphyfis was attacked with caries. The laffc of the lumbar vertebrae was alfo carious at its lower part, and the fuppuration had in great mealure deftroyed the pfoas and iliacus internus mufcles. Tbefe mifchiefs were probably the refult of the divulfion, which the parts, defined to ftrengthen the union of the os facrum with the os innominatum on the right fide, had experienced, at the inftant of the fallCn); and this divulfion mull: undoubtedly have been produced according to the mechanifm above mentioned. With re- fpe£t to the fymptoms that fucceeded, they are the neceffary cenfequen- ces of the dull inflammation of thefe parts, and of the fubfequent fup- puration, and they might poffibly have been prevented, if fuitable means' of relief had been timely adminiftered,. A woman accidently jumped down a few fteps, a ffiort time after having been delivered. At the time, flie felt nothing more than a trifling pain in the region of the loins, which fome days after grew worfe, and was accompanied with a difficulty of walking, which increafed gradually till ffie could no longer fupport herfelf upon the left leg. The pain ffie buffered, though not very violent, was continual; and all thefe accidents were attributed to an overflow of the milk, the more readily, as the up- per part of the thigh and the hip on that fide began to increafe in iize. This woman, who had not been carefully attended to in the beginning, was brought to the hofpital, after having kept her bed upwards of three months at home; and at that time, a very large abfcefs appeared to be forming at the back part of the buttock, the matter of which had made numberlefs linufles, which proceeded from the pelvis by the ifchiatic notch. This abfcefs having been prop>erly opened, furniffied a large quantity of pus of tolerably good quality, and devoid of fmell; it foon however became thin, of a brown colour, and very foetid ; the fever, which had been more or lefs confiderable during the difeafe, increafed ; a delirium came on, and the patient lived only eighth days after the open- ing had been made. The examination of the body prefented the facrum, and the. os innominatum on the left fide, carious throughout the whole offof their correfpondcnt articulating furfaccs ; and in profecuting our re- learches, we found the upper part of the facrum likewife attacked with caries, as well as the laft of the lumbar vertebrae. The nature of the caufe, and the circumflance in which the woman was at the time Ihe received the lhock, together with the accidents Ihe experienced in the iequel, every thing announces, that there was a kind of disjunction or divullion of the facro-iliac fvmphyfis The two preced’uig obfervations would properly come in l'upport of the polfibility of this disjunction from an external caufe, if even it had not been evi- dently demonftrated by a faCt, in the cafe of a man named Binai, of which M. Louis hath given an account, in his hiftoryr of the Royal Aca- demy of Surgery V From what has been faid, it is apparent, that in the cafe of a fall upon the lower extremities, when the morion is fuddenly flopped, there muff be many circumftances united to occafion fuch a counter-ftroke as ihall be capable of accomplilhing the disjunction of the facrum from the ofia innominata, or only a certain divulfion of the medium that connects them. But without a lhock fo violent as is necefl'ary to produce fuch mifehiefs, counter-ftrokes may occafion, in the neighbouring parts, inju- ries entirely as dangerous as thofe, the unfortunate iffue of which I have been mentioning. In a fall upon the two feet, which may have happened without fraCture of any of the pieces that compofe the lower extremi- ties, without contufion of the joints that are found in them, and even without any apparent divullion of the facro-iliac fymphylis ; it occurs but too frequently, that the whole effort of the counter-ftroke bears upon the bafis of the os facrum, and upon the laft of the lumbar vertebra?. In the fall upon the feet or upon the buttocks, for inftance, it is very poffible, that the motion of the upper parts upon the bafis of the facrum, Ihould be fo rapid, that this bafis, the laft vertebras of the loins, and even the ftrong and almoft bony cartilage which unites tliefe tw'o bones, Ihall experience a degree of preffure, fufficient to difturb their organiza- tion, and their internal texture ; and confequently to give rife to fubfe- quentCOUNTER-STROKES, 13I quent mifchiefs of a very ferious nature This affertion is not made without foundation ; for 1 have found, that many of thofe diforders which are called abfceffes of the pfoas mufcles, might with propriety be afcribed to the violent preflu re of the Jaft of the lumbar vertebrae upon the fa- crpm, &c. There is the greater reafon to imagine this, becaufe, in tliefe kinds of abfceffes, the fourth and fifth of the lumbar vertebrae are fome- times carious to a confiderable depth, as well as the anterior and upper part of the facrum ; this is at leaft what I have obferved in the bodies of feveral perfons who have died in confequence of fucli abfceffes. The fol- lowing- fad, which I have feleded from among many others of the fame nature that I have noticed, feems at leaft to confirm my conjedures upon this point. ‘ " '\ \ A jflrong and vigorous man, forty two years of age, having leapt, in Auguft 1765, from about eight feet high, felt at firft, nothing more than a pain of a very doubtful nature, in the region of the loins. This pain was even diflipated a little while after ; but it foon returned, and continued, though in a very moderate degree, upwards of a month. At the end of September, the pain increafed by very perceptible degrees ; and was much more confiderable, particularly when the patient was coming down flairs. The primary caufe of his complaint having efcaped his memory, he conceived it to be the rheumatifm ; but time, and the proper means of alleviating his pains, having proved ineffedual, he began to be uneafy. His diforder now grew worfe every day ; a difficulty, and afterwards an impoftibility of walking, came on ; and in February, 1766, a colledion of matter began to fhew itfelf at the anterior, internal, and upper part of the thigh. This abfcefs was opened in March, and in a fhort time the patient experienced the fame fate as the other two perfons, ”whofe cafes I have given an account of. The examination of the body, prefented-a caries of the upper and fore part of the facrum, and of the bodies of the two laftlumbar vertebra?. Does not the flow progrefs of the dileafe feem to announce, that the fuppuration and partial deftrudion of the pfoas, were, in this inftance, only fecondary effeds of the fuppuration and caries of the neighbouring bony parts ? Thefe difeafes may be alternately caufe and 3 effed ?:ON THE EFFECTS OF ’5* effect ; and the caries ot the facrum, and of the lumbar vertebrae, mav give rile to the p'oas abfeefs, as collections of matter in the pfoas mulcle .may occafion a caries of the fpongy bones that are near it. Khali ahoobferve, that a pally of the lower extremities mav lometimes be one of the effects refulting from counter-ftrokes upon the laft of the lumbar vertebrae; and that the debility which thele extremities experience, is the refult of a gradual comprefiaon which is then made upon the lpinal marrow, and which is the confequence of the mifehiefs going on, either in the cartilages, or in the bony lubftance of the vertebrae. Nothing can he more fimple than this procefs ; the violent fhock which the parts have buffered, caufing them to fwell, they muff neceflarily diminifh the diameter of the channel of the vertebrae, and confequently comprefs, in a greater or lefs degree, the fpinal marrow. I have l'een this happen to a young man of two-and-twenty, who, having fallen upon his buttocks, from the top of a fhed, feemed at ffrff to experience no remarkable acci- dent, lince he continued his work for at leaff three weeks after, at the end of which, he complained of the increafc of a dull kind of pain that he had always felt at the bottom of the loins, from the inffant of his fall: he ffill walked with tolerable eafe ; but this motion became more and more difficult: the lower extremities grew weaker by degrees, and at length totally loff their power of motion, without the patient having been ienfible of any great pain. Being brought into the hofpital, jmd queffioned with refpeft to the caule of his pally, it was concluded, that it would loon be followed by an abfeefs of the nature of thofe I have been /peaking of. Accordingly, about fix weeks after, a tumour appeared projecting from under Poupart’s ligament; this being opened fome time after, when it became prominent outwards, the patient foon paid the Tribute to nature. Upon examining the body, the two laft of the lumbar vertebrae were found affeCted with caries ; which in one ipot penetrated even into the channel of the fpinal marrow, while the ploas and iliacus mufcles feemed likewife, in this cafe, to have luffered only lecondarily. Abfccfles originally formed in thele mufcles, are not, however, unfre- quent ; and although they be only indireCUy the refult ot a counter- ftroke.COUNTER-STROKES. *33 1arake, it may not, perhaps appear improper to explain, in this place, in what manner a fall or an effort may give rile to them. In a falfe ftep, or a fall upon the feet, if the upper parts do not bear perpendicularly upon the facrum, but if, on the contrary, they bear a little behind, the perfon then will fall backwards. To prevent this ac- cident, the pfoas and iliacus interims mufcles, the fixed point of which is then at their attachment to the little trochanter, adt, at the inflant, with power and celerity upon the trunk, to concur in bringing back the line of gravity of the upper parts on the balls of the facrum, upon th? bones of the thigh ; but the fudden effort of thefe mufcles is fcmetimes fo great, that many of its fibres may buffer a rupture, which may give rife to an inflammation, and an abfcefs in the fubftance of them, and afterwards to a caries of the neighbouring bones ; a difeafe of fo terrible a nature, that art hath as yet difcovered no refource againft it. I have had lo little reafon to be fatisfied with the methods I have tried, or feen tried, in a number of thefe cafes, that I can venture to affirm, that it is the beft way to leave thofe who are afrlidted with this difeafe to nature, particularly when they are arrived to a certain period. The abfcefles which come forward, then burft of themfelves ; they leave fmall fiftulous openings, and the patients may live, at leafl for a certain time ; whereas they all perifh in a few days, whenever thefe immenfe collections of matter are opened largely. It is for this reafon I propofe hereafter to open, only with a trocar, any abfceff>t of this kind that may come under my notice; for notwithftanding what Mauquest de la Motte hath faid upon the fubjedt, I have never feen one of them, the opening of which could have been reafonahly attempted, by plunging a fcalpel into the abdomen. It is not when counter-flrokes have given rife to thefe extreme mif- chiefs, of which I have been mentioning inifances, that we can pretend to oppofe their effects ; the original accidents, are thofe which we muft particularly attend to relieve. But in order to do this fuccefsfully, we muft make ourfelves well acquainted with the mechanilm of the counter- T. Broke,, *ON THE EFFECTS OF >34 ftrokc, we muft be able nearly to eftimate its power, we mud know the nature anil relative fituation of the parts that have fuffered ; and from thefe preliminaries, we may form a proper judgement of the nature of the in- jury that has been produced at the inftant of the fhock. The method of cure then becomes rational, and leaves us no reafon to apprehend tliofe errors which arc the confcquence of empiricifm and ignorance. With inch principles, the proceedings we are to adopt in counter-ftrokes, the action of which bears upon the os facrum, upon the facro-iliac fymphyfis, and upon the lumbar vertebra?, are already traced out for us. The kind of miichief which Inch a caufe may produce upon thefe parts, requires bleeding, more or lefs repeated, according to the violence of the fymptoms; refolutive and fpirituous embrocations, a proper diet, and laftly, the moft abfolute reft. This cannot be too ftrongly recommended in disjunctions or divulfions of the facro-iliac lymphyfis ; and in this cafe, comprcft'es dipt in refolutive and fpirituous topics, and fupported by a circular bandage applied moderately light, and palling over the hip bones, are precautions by no means to be neglected. It is all'o neceflary to have recourfe to them in cafes where the counter-ftroke hath produced mil- chiefs among the lumbar vertebrae ; but in this inftance, the circular turns of the roller muft be carried above the region of the loins ; that part of the fpine will be kept more fteady by this precaution, and the bones which compofe it will be lefs liable to be affcCted by motion, which is always hurtful in fuch circumftances. To thefe precautions we muft add, that the horizontal pofitio i is the only proper one in thefe cafes ; but we muft take little account of the number of days the patient is con- fined to his bed ; it is better to carry our precautions too far, than to be deficient in them. So many unfortunate perfons have been the victims of their own neglcCt in this particular, that the attention of practitioners cannot be too much fixed upon this point. It is by the very firnple means I propofc, that after falls with counter-ftrokcs on the os lacrum and the lumbar vertebrae, 1 have luc- ceeded in relieving the iirft fvmptoms, which threatened fubfequent mifehiefs as alarming as thole 1 have been mentioning : among feveral 4 others,COUNTER-STROKES. 53S others, I have feleCted the following remarkable inftance of this. A young man, having fallen from the height of about thirty feet upon his buttocks, felt a very great pain in the region of the os facrum and of the loins. The fecond, third, and fourth lumbar vertebra;, made even an evident projection outwards, and befides the impoffibility which the patient experienced of fupporting himfelf upon his legs, they were at- tacked with a confiderable numbnefs, and were deprived of their quick- nefs of fenfation. Repeated bleedings, a ftriCt diet, graduated and very thick compreffes applied upon the projecting vertebrae, and fupported by the circular turns of a bandage rolled very tight' round the body ; the attention of keeping the patient upon his back, with his head low, and a pillow under his loins; were the means by which this accident was perfectly cured, in lefs than fix weeks. But the patient was more ftrongly induced to maintain the pofition in which I had placed him, by the diminution of his pain upon being put into it. I obferved alfo, in the firft days after the accident, that the tighter the bandage was, the more he was relieved ; for which reafon, 1 ordered it to be frequently wetted with brandy, to prevent it from getting loofe ; and when the effeCt was not anfwered by this contrivance, I made the whole bandage tighter by applying a freih roller. The patient, who found himfelf daily growing better, attempted to rife on the twenty-fixth day ; but his pains in the lumbar region returning, I confined him to his bed for ten or twelve days longer ; and when he got up again, 1 advifed him not to walk at firft without the help of a flick, and to wear a tight ban- dage round his body, in order, for fome time, to give greater firmnefs to the fpine. A fall of this kind might have occafioned a divulfion of the facro-iliac fymphyfis, efpecially if this young man, in falling, had pitched only upon one buttock, and upon the tuberofity of the ifchium on the fame fide. Although frequent inftances occur, of the lumbar vertebras being much expofed to the effieCts of counter-ftrokes, yet they are not the only verte- bras that experience the pernicious effeCts of a fimilar caufe ; for it may aCt alio upon the dorfal vertebrae, lo as to produce very great fubfequent T 2 mifchiefs.ON THE EFFECTS OF mifchicfs. Lateral diflortions of the fplne, and Its exceflive projection outwards, have been often occafioned by a counter-flroke, the fhock of which hath fallen upon thefe vertebrae: at lead: I have feen many deformed perfons who had become fo, only in confequencc of falls they L.:d been c'xpofed to in their younger days. With refpcCt to the method of cure to be purfued, it is almoft entirely prophylactic ; it is fcarce of anv utility, except in the firft in fiance, and fhould be little different from that which is adapted to the complaints of which I have been giving the hiftory. Bleeding, relf, and a circular bandage round the body, may be fufficient: it will be proper, however, in children, to add to thefe methods, the remedies calculated for the rickets, whenever there appears a tendency tv) this difeafe, which is itfelf often the only caufe of thefe deformities. Abforbents, tonics, bitters, preparations of fteel, and efpecially an abfti- nence from all acefcent food, are then the moft effectual remedies. After having fucceflively examined the effcCts of counter-flrokes on the different bones which compofe the pelvis, and the greatefl part of the fpine, it remains only, to complete this feclion, that 1 fhould trace thefe eifevSls upon the other bones which concur in the formation of the trunk. Among thefe, the cervical vertebras do not appear to me fufceptiblc of the bad effeCls of counter-flrokes ; but this cannot be faid either of the ribs or the fternum. That the ribs elpeciallv, may be fraCtured in a part dis- tant from that which receives the fhock, is a fact which Hands in no need of being proved ; fraClures of the ribs, with projection outwards, are always the effeCt of a counter-flroke, to which their form renders them liable. The rib being ftopped fhort, as it were, backwards, at the fame time that it receives a confiderablc fhock towards its anterior extremity, is fraCtured in the middle : this may alio happen when the fhock bears upon the cartilaginous part of the rib, or upon the fternum, provided the body that caufes it, have iome extent of furface, and fhall ftrike with a certain velocity ; but the mechanifm of this fraCture, and the treatment of it, are too well known for us to dwell upon. If the fhock fhould bear upon the angular or middle part of the rib, even in the inflance where the oppofite fide of the chef! fhould lean againft fome refilling body,COUNTER-STROKES. J37 body, no injury can be done to the fternum, nor to the anterior part of the rihs ; and then the fracture, which may happen at the part that re- ceives the blow, is no longer the effeft of a counter-ftroke. It could only be chaffed among the effefts of iuch a caufe, in thofe inftances, where it fhould happen on the fide oppofite to that which received the (hock ; which is not impoffible in the fuppofition of the trunk leaning againft fome refilling body ; and in this cafe likewife, the bell way of directing the cure is fufficiently known. With refpeft to the fternum, although from its fituation and figure it fhould not be very liable to the effects of counter-ftrokes, yet it hath fometimes happened, that a fradlure of this bone has been produced by fuch a caufe, of which the following fabt is an inflance. A mafon, eight and twenty years of age, having been brought to the hofpital, after falling from the height of about fifty feet, it was found, upon examining him, that he had a fradlure of the left thigh, and that the fpinal procefles, of the lafl of the dorfal, and firft of the lumbar ver- tebrae, were likewife broken. The fradlure of the thigh being reduced, and the furgeon perceiving that the man could not bring his head for- wards, examined in order to find out the reafon of this, and difcovered it to be a tranfverfe fradlure of the fternum, with a confiderable interval between the firft and fecond piece of that bone. The patient when on the ground, was found lying upon his back, with his left leg under him; and upon the fore-part of the breaft there was neither ecchymofis nor excoriation, nor any nfferk which could induce a fufpicion that the frac- ture of the fternum had been produced by a blow upon the part. The mechanifm of this accident, appeared therefore fo problematical to the furgeon, that he found it difficult to account for it ; but a workman who was prefent, foon enabled him to folve this difficulfv, by acquainting him, that the patient, at little more than one third of the courfe of his fall, had met with a projedling piece of fcaffolding, which had given him a blow in the middle of his back. The furgeon, as well verfed in the pradlice as in the theory of his art, immediately concluded, that the' fradlure of the lpinal proceffes of the vertebrae above mentioned, and that»38 O N THE. EFFECTS OF t'-iac ot the fternum, were the conftquencc of this hilt (hock, becaufe, hi the ir.ftant that the body had been flopped in its fall by the middh- of t!;c back, the lower extremities on one hand, and tile upper part of the- trunk on-the other, had prelerved a fufficient quantity of motion to force the fpine to fuch a degree of extenfion, that the mufcles which go from the fternum to th.e head, &c., being violently llretched, had eifecled the- feparation of the firft bone of the fternum from the fecond. This me- chanifm is too limple, not to be leadily underftood. With refpedt to the curative indications that prefented themfelves for this double accident, th ey were fulfilled by a method as eafy as it was effectual fo true it is,, that a man of genius always enriches the art, while he feems to fimplitV it. The enl ightened prailitioner of whom we are fpeakitig, ordered a hollow to be made in the bed, at the part correfponding to the fraiture of the vertebrae ; he placed thick cufhions under the nates, with a pillow under the fhoulders, and employed every precaution neccffary to keep the fpine conftantly bent forwards, and to bring the head in the fame di- rection : this he accomplifhed by attending only to the pofition of the patient. The elongation of the fpine, which is never more confiderable than in the flate of flexion, brought back, into their natural fituation, the fpinal procefTes, which were a little turned to one lide, and maintained them there by means of the conftant tenfion of the ligaments and muf- cles that are fixed into it. The upper portion of the fternum was kept, by the fame contrivance, in exail oppofition with the inferior extremity ; fo that at the ufual period of the cure of frailures, the patient went out perfeilly well, and without having buffered any lymptoms, except Inch as are ufual, and to remedy which, the proper methods had been em- ployed immediately after the accident. I make no doubt but that many frailures of the fternum have been produced by the fame kind of mecha- nifm, and which, for want of being known at the time, have given rife to abfeeffes, and to troublefome caries of the bones- SECTIONcounter-strokes, *39 SECTION III. TO EXPLAIN THE EFFECTS OF COUNTER-STROKES ON THE UPPER EXTREMITIES, AND THE MEANS OF RELIEVING THEM. ALTHOUGH the upper extremities, in cafes of leaps or falls on the feet, do not receive the firft fhock, yet they partake of it, at leaft very often, in fuch a manner as to fuller material injuries. If a perfon fhould fall from any height upon the lower extremities, when thefe come to the ground, they have feldom the whole weight of the upper parts to fup- port, becaule the line of gravity of the latter palling, for inftance, along the fore part of the cotyloide cavity, the trunk and the head con- tinue to fall forwards, and the hands prefent themfelves naturally to the ground, to ward off the violent fhock which the head might receive , u 5 without this precaution of mere inftindL It is not neceffary even, to confirm this obfervation, that the fall fhould be from any height. If a man, in walking, doth but lofe his balance, he falls; if backwards, he throws his elbows and Ihonlders as far back as poffible, in order to mul- tiplyON THE EFFECTS O- F *<c tipiy his poinrs of contadl with the ground; if forwards, he prefcnts his hands and knees for the lame purpofe; and if fideways, the elbow. Thus it is that we i.nftindtively avoid the commotion of the brain or the fracture of the cranium ; but nature very frequently can only ward ofF thefe accidents, at the expence of the parts of lei's conlequence, which feem fo voluntarily to offer thcmfelves for the prefervation of this im- portant vifeus. Accordingly, we have already feen what the lower ex- tremities are expofed to lutfer, in many cafes, in taking their fharc of this prefervative intention d/> ; and it is in endeavouring to accomplilh the fame end, that we lhall find the upper extremities alio expofed to injuries which are almoft always the effect of a counter-Hroke. If the palms of the hands ftrike upon the ground in any fall whatever, thefe parts being fuddenly flopped, the body is Hopped at the fame time ; and the bones which compofe them receive the Ihock of the upper extre- mity, which is itfelf a died upon by part of the trunk in motion. This kind of Ihock, which is a real counter-ftroke, may, and fometimes does, produce mifehiefs in the joint, a divulfion of the ligaments which connect the neighbouring bones, or a dillocation of the wrilt; which lalt accident belongs to the effedts of counter-ftrokes taken in the molt extenfive fenfe. It may however be obferved, that fome of thele injuries are lefs frequent than they might be fuppofed to be, and that for reafons which are de- rived from the mechanifm of the fall. The diredtion of the motion being then in a midway between the vertical and the horizontal line, the bones of the carpus are always pulhed diredtly againlt the bones of the fore arm, and this fame diredtion farther eludes the violence of the Ihock, inaf- much as the hands being able to Hide on a little forwards, the motion is not fo fuddenly Hopped as it would have been without this circumftance. But notwithflanding this, and the loofe attachment of the lcapula, which renders the application of the weight of the trunk gradual, a fall upon the hands will not unfrequently occaHon, in the joint of the wriH, the injuries 1 have been mentioning. TheCOUNTER-STROKES. 141 The principal fymptoms that charade rife thefe injuries, are an acute pain, and a fwellmg, more or lefs confiderable, with a difficulty of moving the part. If thefe original accidents be not relieved, an abfcefs, a caries, a complete or partial anchylofis, may fucceed; at lead I have feen indan- ces of fome of thefe terminations. The fymptoms that fird make their appearance, fufficiently indicate the kind of remedies to which we mud have recourfe ; repeated bleedings, refolutive topics, more or lefs fpiri- tuous; in certain cafes, emollients, and anodines in others ; retentive ban- dages calculated to prevent every motion of the part; are the only means to be employed in the fird indance. But when the primary fymptoms are relieved, balfamic embrocations may be tried, fuch as thole made with the balfamum tranquillum, the martiatum, and the oil of nutmegs animated with a little volatile fpirit of fait ammoniac ; or we may ufe the foap of lead, quickened alfo with the fpirit above mentioned. I have employed this lad with fuccefs, in diffneffes of the joints, with enlarge- ment. I have feen fome complete and true anchylofes, and two incom- plete or fpurious ones, in confequence of counter-drokes received in the joint we are fpeaking of which have all happened to perfons who had negledled to apply in time for proper relief. But the effects of thefe counter-drokes are not confined to the wrid, they mod commonly produce a fradture of the fore arm ; and whether this fradture be fimple or compound, it requires no other method of treatment than fuch as is well known. It mud only be obferved, that as the bones are at fome little didance from each other, it is neceffary, before the circular roller be applied, to place two flips of linen of tolera- ble thicknefs, fo as to anfwer to the inter-oifeous fpace, one on the out, the other on the infide. This precaution is more particularly neceffary when the fradture is in the middle of the fore arm, and if it be near the elbow joint, care mud be taken not to put the arm in a (ling ; it mud, on the contrary, be kept extended, for reafons which are very evident. U IfU2 ON THE EFFECTS OF It-' inficad of falling upon the hand, the perfon Falls*upon his elbow, and that the olecranon he not fractured, the infide of the joint may ex- perience a counter- ftrokc accompanied with fymptoms more or lefs vio- lent, and which may be attended with all thofe fatal confequences which J have mentioned in deferibing the effect? of coutiter-ftrokes in the joints of the lower extremities. In November 1768, I opened, in a young man of eighteen years of age, an abfeefs, the origin of which was in the elbow joint, and which had proceeded from a fimilar caufe. The patient had telt great pain at the inftant of his fall ; a confiderable fwelling had come on ; and when I faw him, 011 the 17th day after the accident, he had a confiderable de- gree of fever ; it was in vain that I bled him twice, and applied anodine and emollient refolutive topics to the tumour ; it terminated in fuppura- tion, and the fluctuation becoming evident a few days after, I delayed not the opening of it. The pus being mixed with a glairy fluid, and the introduction of my finger into the opening, afeertained the feat of the difeafe. The patient feemed relieved for feme days after the opera- tion ; but the bad fvmptoms loon returned, the fever increafed, the dif- charge became foetid ; the edges of the wound were livid and much fwelled ; the patient was delirious ; and during the fpace nearly of three' weeks, he feemed to be in too deiperate a fituation for us even to be able to attempt amputation with any prolpedf of luccefs. After this period, however, he grew better by degrees ; the lymptoms were relieved, and the wound being drefled with dry lint, was perfectly healed, without there having been any apparent exfoliation ; there were even hopes, when the patient went out of die hofpital, that the joint would flill retain a certain freedom of motion. It feldom happens that mi {'chiefs are produced in the joints, unlefs in thofe cafes where the lliock is not confiderable enough to occalion a free- ture ; but let us fuppofe, that in a fall upon the elbow, the lliock Ihould be fuflicient to produce a folution of continuity in the bone; it will lithcr be the olecranon, or the upper part of the fore arm, which will yield to theCOUNTER-STROKES. M-3 the immediate application of the force upon them; or elfe thcfe parts will refifl, and the os brachii will be fradfured by a counter-droke, as it frequently happens. The os brachii will either be broken in its body, and then the curative intentions are too well known to be mentioned here, or elfe this bone may be fradiured at its upper extremity, or its neck, and in that cafe we mull take fuch precautions as the feat of the fradture re- quires. Though the curative indications be the fame as in all other frac- tures, yet the mode of fulfilling them is different. As it is impoffible to furround the fradtured part with a circular roller, after having put the bones into a proper fituation, we mud apply under the upper part of the arm, two thin comprefifes which muff crofs each other on the fore part of the fhoulder, while the axilla and the infide of the arm mud be de- fended with tow or lint, previoufly deeped, as well as the above-mentioned comprefifes, in a mixture of oil of rofes, the yolks of eggs, and brandy UJ. The arm mud afterwards be brought clofe to the trunk, while any hollows there may be between the arm and the trunk, either at the fore or the back part, mud be filled up with lint or tow, which is alfo to be put round the upper part of the arm and the fhoulder, and the arm is then to be kept in the fituation in which it has been placed, by the circular' turns of a roller palled round the body and including the arm, and by a bandage fomewhat fimilar to the capeline for the clavicle, taking care only that the roller fhould be long enough to make n fufficieut number of turns round the body. The arm being thus immoveably fixt to the trunk, and the fore arm put in a fling, nothing can prevent the re-union of the fradtured pieces. Jt is by this very Ample method, which is fimilar to that of M. MosCate, that 1 have cured leveral fractures of the neck of the os brachii without the lead accident. The padding recommended by that able pradtitioner, is very well calculated to anfwer the furgeon’s intentions in this cafe: and we may have recourfe to it, if we think pro- per, in preference to any other mode^-h But the fhock tranfmitted from the elbow to the os brachii, may leave that bone entire, and make ufie of it merely as a medium, by which the mifehief is conveyed to a greater didance. Thus it is that a fracture of U 2 theON THE EFFECTS OF 6 then M+ the proceffus acromion of the fcapula, is fometimes produced : the fol- lowing is an inftaucc of i:. In 1769, a man cairying a condderable load upon iiis left fhoulder, having fallen upon the right elbow, or rather upon the upper part of the fore arm, while bent at right angles with the upper arm ; the head of the os brachii was driven with fo much force ngainft the acromion, that the procefs was fractured, while I perceived only a flight contufion at the part which had received the fhock. It does not appear to me, that the mechanifm of fuch a fradhire ought to make any alteration in the method of cure which it requires of itfelf. I11 what- ever manner the caul'e producing the fradlure may have adted, the bufinefs is to bring the fradtured extremities into exact appofition, and to maintain them in a ftate of reft, which may allow of the infpiffation of the inter- mediate juice that is to unite them. This double intention may be fulfilled, by keeping the arm exadlly fixed to the trunk, and fupporting it in fuch a manner, that the head of the os brachii (hall be conftantly kept clofe to the acromion, the motion of which is afterwards to be reftrained, as well as that of the fcapula and clavicle, by fuitable comprefles, and by the capeline of the fcapula, which is to be applied, as I have juft before mentioned, fo as to include the arm in the circular turns which this bandage makes round the body ; the cure will be the more complete in proportion as the motion of all thefe parts fhall have been more confined. For this real'on, in order more effectually to anfwer this eflfential indication, we mull till up, with lint or cotton dipt in the mixture above mentioned, all the hollows on the fore part of the arm, above and below the clavicle, &c. and this before we apply the roller. Thefe were nearly the modes of proceeding I adopted in the cafe juft mentioned, and which fucceededjfo well, that the patient enjoyed, a few months after, a greater freedom of motion than I expected, confidering what authors have laid ot this fracture. / But fuppofing that the direction of a violent flaock flaould be fuch, that the os brachii fhall not fuller any fracture either in its body, or at its ucck, and that it fhall not be driven again ft the acton im, the fhock hCOUNTER.STPs.OKES. Hj then conveyed almoft entirely to the infide of the joint, where it may produce accidents proportioned to its violence. An acute pain, a {’welling more or lefs considerable, with inflammation, Subsequent abSceffies, and a caries of the bones, are Sometimes the effeCt of fucli a Shock. In July 1765, a man fell from a horfe, and pitched upon his right Shoulder ; the pain, which was at find rather acute, was relieved by two bleedings, and by refolutive applications ; but it was not completely removed ; Some particular motions were always painful, and the pain increafed upon change of weather; this the patient attributed to the rheumatifm, to which he had been fubjedt for many years, and which he imagined to be fixed upon this part. Eight months having elapfed in this Situation, he was Seized in March 1766, with a high fever, for which he was blooded four times. A week afterwards, the fever having Still continued with violence, he felt in the right Shoulder, a pain more considerable than ufual, with a difficulty of motion which he had not yet experienced, and a tumour appeared, which was considered as the crisis of the difeafe. The Swelling grew larger, and the pain, which increafed notwithstanding the application of anodines, did not Seem to give way, till it might be pre- sumed that a Suppuration was formed. The collection of matter not being, however, evident to the touch, anodine and Suppurating topics were Still continued for more than three weeks. The fluctuation being; then apparent, an abfcefs was opened on the lateral, outward, and upper part of the arm, which furniffied a very great quantity of well-condition- ed pus. It was thought that the patient was faved by this evacuation, becaufe this was fuppofed to be only a critical abfcefs ; but we were foon undeceived ; the fever did not give way, the abfcefs Still furniffied a great quantity of matter, and fome Small particles of bone were found at in- tervals in the difcharge. This unfortunate difcovery rendered the nature of the malady no longer doubtful, any more than the imminent dan- ger in which the patient was ; notwithstanding all the care that could be taken of him, he fell into a heCtic, which increafed by degrees, and destroyed him in three months after the opening of the abfcel's. Upon examining the Shoulder joint, I found the head of the os brachii, and that of the Scapula, affected with a deep caries. Might O146 ON THE EFFECTS OF Might I be allowed to hazard feme conje&ures upon this difeafe, I fhould fay, it is to be prefumed, that the fever which came on, was in- dependent of the effc&s of the lhock on the joint, feeing that it preceded, feveral days, the pain and the fwelling of the part ; but it may alfo be imagined, that without the previous mifchiefs in the joint, the fever would not have occaiioned thofe appearances which I obferved after the death of the patient. Still it is certain, that in the firtf inftance, we can- not carry too far the precautions which ought to be taken after violent fhocks in the joints : it is right to recal to our memory, and to that of others, that in tliefe cafes, we are not to fuffer patients to remain in that flatc of confident fccurity, which they derive from being allured, that they have neither a diflocation nor a fracture. In continuing to trace the effects of counter-ftrokes upon the bones that compofe the upper extremities, we find, that the laft of the pieces that concur in this ftrudture, in afeending from below upwards, is as much, and even more, expofed to them than any other ; this is fo cer- tain, that there are very few fradures of the clavicle that are the confequence of an immediate ftroke upon this bone ; fometimes it is occafioned by a fall on the elbow ; fometimes by a fall or a blow on the fhoulder, or on the fcapula. I have l'een feverai inftances of fractures of the clavicle, that have happened in all thefe different ways. The mecha- nifm of them is fo limple, that it is unnecefifary to explain it. Neither fhall I give an account of any of the cafes, becaufe they would contain nothing but trivial obfervations, little calculated to appear before the refpedable body who are my judges; nor fhall I mention any thing of the mode of cure, which is fufticiently known, and requires, btfides, no alteration refpeding the caufe producing the fradure : 1 fhall only recommend Mr. Bhasdor’s bandage, as preferable to every other method of keeping the ftioulders conftantly back. We (ball conclude this fedion by obferving, that if it be fufficient, in order to clals any injury among the effeds of counter-ftrokes, that it fhould have taken place in a part diftant from that which received tlv ftroke,COUNTER-STROKES. i47 ftroke, the effects of counter-ftrokes on the external parts will be con-' fiderably increafed ; for in this general acceptation, diflocations are always produced by this caufe. We cannot doubt of this, when we fee that a diflocation of the thigh is almoft always the refult of a fhock, of a refif- tance, or of a power applied towards the lower extremity of that bone ; the fame may be faid of a luxation of the wrift, of the elbow, of the fhoulder, of the clavicle, of the lower jaw, of the leg, &c. The bone always receives the ftroke either at the extremity oppofite to that which is dillocated, or in its body : there are even few inftances where the fhock applied immediately to the joint, could poffibly produce the kinds of accidents we have been {peaking of In making this obfervation, I do not mean to explain the mechanifm by which diflocations are produced; this is a point which it was impoflible ever to miftake ; we only give the name of counter-ftroke to this mechanifm, without making any addition to the well-known theory of thefe accidents ; nor does this bring any improvement in the mode of treatment required for luxations. It is well known what proceedings are to be adopted in all cafes of this kind, either to accomplifh the reduction of the diflocation, to maintain the parts re- duced in their fituation, or to relieve the prefent and counteract future mifchiefs. All thefe points of dodtrine have been difcufted by the mod able practitioners ; and I cannot fuppofe it to be the wifti of the Academy that we fhould take a review of all kinds of luxations, becaufe they are effects of counter-ftrokes, if even we had any interefting obfervations to offer upon feme of thefe injuries. What is here faid of difloca- tions, I alio fay of a wrench, and of a diaftaffs, which are likewife the effect of counter-ftrokes, fince the mifehief is not done to the part that receives the ftroke. With refpedt to the treatment of thefe complaints, we have nothing to propofe which is not already known. Repeated bleedings, refolutive, emollient, and fometimes fpirituous applications, re- tentive bandages, and above all things, abfolute reft, are the means to be preferred in all fuch cales ; and I only mention them here, that 1 may not be fuppofed to have overlooked this part of the effedls of counter^ ftrokes. P A RT— , ' ' . *iM ||1 - ■ - , . • ■ *f COUNTER-STROKES. X other- U9 PART II. TO EXPLAIN THE EFFECTS OF COUNTER STROKES UPON THE SEVERAL VISCERA CONTAINED IN THE CAVITIES OF THE HUMAN BODY, EXCLUSIVE OF THE CRANIUM; AND TO POINT OUT THE TREATMENT THAT MIGHT BE EMPLOYED MOST SUCCESSFULLY AGAINST THE MISCHIEFS THAT ARE are often the effect of a commotion, or violent concuffion, which the principal vil'cera of the human body experience, after a Ihock given to a part which is often at a great difhmce from the cavity containing thefe vifcera. This kind of injury is not confined to that vifcus only which is placed within the cranium. The vifcera that are inclofed within the thorax and the abdomen, are alio expofed to it, although moft of the precautions taken by nature to avoid the too great commotion which the brain might experience in cafes of leaps, or falls, are common to the other vifcera. We fhall, however, obferve, and indeed it cannot be PRODUCED BY THEM. experience too evidently proves, that very ferious accidentsON THE EFFECTS OF - uc otherwife, that in the mod ondio5«r Jr Counter-ftrokes, than thole which ale contained in the pelvis. This is the confcquence, botli of the mul- tiplicity of parts, calculated to ablorb motion, which are found between the feet and the chell, and of the power which the cheft has of b.ing extended flill farther downwards, when the motion of the pelvis is already flopped. In this, as in the firft part, we find the divifion ready marked out, and we adopt it the more willingly, as it is very natural, and well calculated completely to illuflrate the lafl part of the queflion we have to treat of. We fhall therefore begin by explaining the effe&s of counter- flrokes upon the vifcera contained in the abdomen, and fhall conclude this eflay by examining thefe effe£ts upon the organs inclofed in the cavity of the chcff. SECTIONCOUNTER-STROKES, X 2 natural. SECTION I. TO EXPLAIN THE EFFECTS OF COUNTER-STROKES UPON THE * SEVERAL VISCERA CONTAINED IN THE CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN, AND TO POINT OUT THE MODES OF CURE BEST ADAPTED TO RESIST THEIR CONSEQUENCES. —— i ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ™ IT is fufficiently evident, that the fudden floppage of motion of the pelvis, in inftances ot falls or leaps, mud; give rife to a fhock, or com- motion m the vifcera of the abdomen, fo much the more violent, as the fhock fhall have been greater, and as the feveral bony pieces, by means of which the fhock is tranfmitted, fh ill have efcaped being fractured; it is the fame as in a concuffion of the brain, which is never more conhder- able after a violent fhock, than where there is no fradure in the bones of the cranium. It muff, however, be acknowledged, that the fhocks which the vif- cera of the abdomen may experience, in cafe of leaps, falls &c. l'carcely produce any mifchief in them, except when thefe vifcera are in an un-ON THE EFFECTS OF 1 5* natural, or at leaf!:, not an ordinary (late. At any rate, the Injuries they may be expofed to in thefe inftances themfelves, are always the effect of Counter-Strokes, taken in the mold extenfive fenfe. Thus it is, that abor- tion and its confequences may be confidered as the effect of fuch a caul'e. The moft trifling fall, or a falfe ftep, are fometimes fufficient to produce it, becaufe, in thefe circumstances, the motion of the pelvis being already (topped, while the placenta, fixed to the uterus, (till tends to move down- wards with the velocity acquired by the fall, an effort is made upon that part of the womb to which it is fixed, which would feparate it much more frequently than we obferve this to happen, if it experienced any refiftance from the womb, or if the uterus had not nearly the fame tendency downwards as that fpongy body has. But this circumftance, fo favourable in preventing its feparation in ordinary and habitual motions, becomes in- sufficient when the pelvis Suffers Shocks of any violence : the divulfion of the placenta becomes then almoSt a neceffary confequencc, notwith(landing the power which the fundus of the uterus has to follow its motion down- wards, and notwithstanding the prefence of the waters, which take off fo considerably from the weight of the placenta itfelf. We know in what manner the feparation of this organ, when begun in one Spot, extends itfelf by means of the fluid, which iffuing from the fmall ruptured fibres, is extravafated between the placenta and the Sides of the uterus; we know how the flux of the blood is brought on, and lafily, how the pains which come on, give rife to premature labour. With refpe£t to the pro- per means of preventing this alarming accident, every furgeon is acquainted with them. Bleeding, red:, and diet, are the remedies beft adapted to the complaint, and they fometimes fucceed; the moSt complete reSt cfpecially, is abfolutely neceffary. This is at leaSt all that can be done by art, under fuch circumftances. It is by the fame mechanifm, that a fall, upon the feet, or upon the knees, a leap, &c. may produce a recent hernia, or force down an old one, and thus become the diStant caufe of all the mifehiefs that may enfue. It is by the fame mechanifm that a fchirrous tefticle, which is not fupported by a fufpenfory, in the (hocks which are the confequencc of the fall, may occafion a dragging down of the cord, and excite a pain in it which may be communicated to the tef- ticle 4COUNTER. STROKES. *53 tide itfelf, and occafion the fchirrus to degenerate into a cancer. Thus it is too, that a counter-ftroke, taken in the mod extenfive fenfe, may occafion pain in a womb that is fwelled and inclined to become fcirrhous, which may change the nature of this termination into a worfe. Even in inftances where this vifcus is not in a dileafed ftate, it may give rife to haemorrhages very difficult of cure. Are we not alfo to confider as the refult of the kind of caufe, the effects of which we are inveftigating, to thofe pains, which, after a fall, were felt in the abdomen of a woman, who, for fome years paid, had had a fchirrhus of one of the ovaries ; and muff we not attribute to the fame caufe, the fatal alteration which hap- pened, after a fimilar event, in a tumour of the fame fort in the liver r I have feen all thefe fatal accidents be the relult of imprudent leaps, or of falls upon the lower extremities, or the bones of the pelvis. It is not, however, always neceflary, that the effects of counter-ffrokes fhould fall on difeafed vilcera, in order to give rife to diforders which were not previoufly exifling there. I have feen a man who before enjoyed a good hate of health, void almoh pure blood through the urethra for feveral days together, and this on account of having fallen aftride, from almoft the height of two feet, upon a bar of iron. From that time he has always been fubjedl to nephritic colics, and to a frequency of voiding his urine, attended with an habitual difeharge of fmall gravel; diforders to which he was entire ftranger before his fall. From whence did this blood proceed ; from the bladder, or from the kidneys ? In what manner has this counter-fhoke been able to produce a haemorrhage in the urinary channels, and give rife to thofe habitual nephritic colics which torment the patient ? Thefe are queftions, the folution of which wmuld be as ufe- ful as fatisfactory ; but I am far from pretending to folve them. It appears to me, however, from the pain which the patient told me he plainly felt at the inftant of his fall, about the region of the loins, and from the dull pain which he complains of ever fince in that part, that the kidneys may be confidered as thofe of the urinary organs which fuffered moft by the commotion. The branches of the renal plexus of nerves being vio- lentlyON THE EFFECTS OF J54 lcnt!\ a fleeted at the inftant of the fhock, mav have injured the vafcular lvflem fo much, as to occafion a haemorrhage in the internal ftruCture of the organ ; or elfe thefe nerves might, perhaps, leave the lecretory canals in Inch a ftate of atony, that in the firfl inftant of the accident the blood might pals into them indifcriminatcly with the. aqueous fluid that was to he fecreted in the kidney; and indeed, fuch a ditlurbance in the inter- nal organization of this vile us was very likely to encourage the formation of thole gravelly concretions which the patient voids with his urine ever lince that period. This is now eight months ago, during which time the patient hath been in the habit of taking a quantity of the decoction of marfh-mallows and linfeed ; a drink which may pofhbly have contributed to keep up his tendency to a nephritic colic. The good effe&s he finds from faponaceous and balfamic aftringent remedies, the ufe of which he lias continued for fome days paft, would feem to confirm my conjectures. The following cafe affords alfo a very ftriking in fiance of the effect of counter-ftrokes, which, though trifling, yet from being often repeated, have given rife to fatal diforders. A tradefman, little accuitomed to go on horfe-back, having rid lix and thirty miles at full trot, upon a bad hackney horfe, found himfelf overcome with fatigue. On his return, he vomited, and was feized with a pain in the epigaftric region, which he thought reft would remove. It continued, however, with a degree of violence for lome days, during which time, he would not fubmit to lofe blood, although, he had fome fever, and vomited whenever he took any folid food ; nor did he even obferve the abl'olute reft that had been en- joined to him. The pain being fomewhat abated, and the vomitings returning at intervals only, he took little notice of his complaint for fome time ; but the pain flill fubfifting, and the vomitings having never left him entirely, he began to grow uneal'y, and had recourfe to remedies which were not well adapted to his cafe ; an emetic was adminiftered to him twice ; and he was ordered to take, wormwood wine. The complaint, tar from diminifhing, increafed ; the vomitings became more frequent; and after having lived two years, trying a variety of medicines, the patient wasCOUNTER-STROKES. 155 was reduced to fuch a ftate, that his ftomach would retain nothing but liquids; and thefe he» at length became unable to pals, tor they were thrown up again in large quantities, after having remained fometimes two or three days in the ftomach. The patient fell at length into a marafmus, and died in an aftonifhing ftate of emaciation. Upon opening the bodv, 1 found the liver very hard, without being much increafed in lize ; the pancreas was fchirrhous at that part of it which is next to the duo- denum ; and this inteftine, partaking of the difeafe of the pancreas, was almoft entirely obliterated ; the ftomach was exceedingly large, and the inteftines were fcarce bigger than thole of a chicken. Befides all the pernicious effeds of counter-ftrokes upon the principal vifcera of the abdomen, how frequently has not this kind of caufe given rife to a mortal commotion in the fpinal marrow ? There are few prac- titioners who cannot produce fome in (lance of a paify in the lower extre- mities, coming on in confequence of a fall, without either diilocation or fradure of the lumbar vertebrae. A girl of feven years of age, walking in a waxed room, having fallen backwards, was unable to rife again. Being lifted up and put to bed, (lie was examined ; and although none of the bones that compofe the fpine were found injured or difplaced, yet the lower extremities had loft all power of motion. The father having refilled to fuffer his child to be blooded in the firft inftance, the parts were only rubbed with warm cloths, and fumigated with various aromatics, while vulnerary remedies were internally adminiftered. Notwithftanding thefe affiftances, and bleeding, which was afterwards performed, the parts never recovered their power of motion ; and the girl lived onlv between two and three months after the fall. We could not obtain leave to open the body ; but it is very certain, that there was no appearance externally, which indicated any kind of injury done to the bones. With refpedt to the proper mode of treatment in the feveral cafes which we have been fpeaking of, it may be obferved, that the fymptoms which are or may be the refult of counter-ftrokes, the efFedfs of which areON THE EFFECTS Or- SECTION 15& are felt either In the principal vifcera of the abdomen, or in the lower part of the fpinal m^jjcow, feem to indicate, that the curative intentions to be purfued, mult be nearly the fame, whatever may be the nature of the parts fuffering the mifchief. Accordingly, in the feveral inftan- ces we have been mentioning, bleeding, reft, and ftrict diet, are the chief remedies to be employed.SECTION II. TO EXPLAIN THE EFFECTS OF COUNTER-STROKES ON THE VISCERA CONTAINED IN THE CAVITY OF THE CHEST, AND THE MODE OF TREATING THEM. A.LTHOUGH, ill cafes of leaps, and falls upon the feet, or on the nates, the eftedts of counter-ftrokes, for the reafons before mentioned, can feldom be conveyed to the vifcera contained in the cavity of the tho- rax, fo as to difturb the functions of thefe vifcera ; it is not however an uncommon thing to find, that the kind of motion communicated to the cheft in this way, produces evident mifchief in the lungs ; but it muft be acknowledged, that this happens more particularly, when there is fome- difeafe in this organ. Accordingly, it may readily be conceived', that if the lungs be affedted with tubercles, if they be partly fchirrous, or have recently contradted adhefions in confequence of inflammation, the com- motion they would experience, in cafe of any fall, might give occafion to dangerous divulfionr, to rupture of veflels, and to an hoemoptoe. Thus it is that I have feen the mere fhaking of a horfe, haflen the death of per- Y fon s*.S8 ON THE EFFECTS OF funs whofe lungs were much affeXed with tubercles. It muff not, how- ever, be imagintd, that the lungs, though free from the dileafed ftate above-mentioned, fhould ftill be entirely Iheltered from the effects of counter-ftrokcs in calcs of leaps or falls upon the lower extremities. I have feen perfons, without any tendency to diforder in the lungs, fei/.ed with a {pitting of blood, after fuch tails, and incur all the dangers of an hcemoptoe. 1 have known others complain of a painful dragging fenia- tion between the two fhoulders, at the place where the lungs are more particularly attached to the fpinal column; which was certainly owing to a divulilon of the connexions that fix this rather weighty vifeus to thac part. I have alfo feen inftances of perfons, who having fallen upon their heels, from the height of about two or three feet only, have been feized with fainting fits to an extreme degree. This fymptom may pof- libly be confidered as the effect of a violent commotion, which the heart may have experienced at the time of the fhock. I am, however, more inclined to think, that thefe faintings, among which I have feen an in- ffance of their returning for three weeks together, every time that the trunk was thrown into a vertical pofition, are the effeX of a concuff'ion of the brain, a difeafe which is not the objeX of our prefent enquiry ; but the vifeera of the thorax may experience injurious conculfions, by other means befide that of a fall on the feet, or a leap from a certain height. Every blow received externally upon the parts which form the cavity, may occafion confiderable injuries in thefe vifeera, even when the bony compages that furrounds them, {hall remain uilhurt. In this cafe, the heart cannot always avoid the effeX s of luch counter-ftrokes. We know the kinds of mifehief which may happen, by this way, to thele important vifeera, and the curative means to be employed againff; them ; the lame may be faid of the contufion which the liver may re- ceive from a violent blow on the falfe ribs. Repeated bleedings, a ffriX diet, diluting liquors, and refolutive fpirituous applications, are almoft the only remedies to be ufed in thefe cafes. I have undoubtedly faid enough to prove the danger of very violent {hocks, even when they fall upon parts of a more compaX texture than the brain, and to explain the wifdom and forefight which nature has difplayed, ill arranging the contri- vancesCOUNTER-STROKES. *59 vances deftined to avoid or to diminifh the effects of thefe concuflions. It remains only, to ftnifh this eflay, that I fhould give a fummary reca- pitulation of the effects of counter-ftrokes, confidered either in their limited, or their mod: extenflve fenfe; and to explain the principal cura- tive intentions bed adapted to the feveral kinds of mifchiefs that may r.efult from them. From what has been hitherto find, we fee how many different difeafes may be referred to one fingle caufe ; and how various and numerous are the effeCts of counter-ftrokes. It is not therefore, without foundation,- that, at the beginning of this eflay, I declared, that the moft ferious dif- orders of furgery, and I might have added, of medicine, arofe from a fimilar caufe. All diflocations, wrenches, every diaflafis, all contufions in the joints of the extremities, disjunctions of the facrum, divulfion of the ligaments that connect it, and feveral of the injuries that happen to the pieces that confutete the fpine, are they not the effeCts of counter- ftrokes ? Are not moft fraCtures accompliftied by the fame mechanifm, as well as moft abortions, defcents of the uterus, and herniae ? Doth not this caufe frequently make fchirrous tumours degenerate into cancers, or produce the fame effeCt on other fwellings of a fimilar tendency ? Have not counrer-ftrokes often given rife to evident mifchiefs in the import- ant organs of the abdomen and thorax, when they were in a diftempered. ftate, and fometimes when they were found ? The moft ferious difor- ders of the brain, which we have not noticed, on account of the limits prefcribed by the Aicademy, are they not the refult of counter-ftrokes ? How many fubordinate accidents afterwards fucceed all thefe original dis- orders which we have enumerated? From all thefe circumftances, it cannot be doubted, but that counter-ftrokes are among the moft general caufes of the diforders to which our frail machine is fubjeCt. But notwithftanding the multiplicity and variety of the original acci- dents which are derived from this Angle caufe, we obferve, with fatisfac- Bon, that the intentions of cure to be followed in order to counteract thefe effeCts, whatever they may be, are always nearly the fame, when Y 2 ' theON THE EFFECTS OF COUNTER-STROKES. 160 the injury hath happened in the vifcera contained in the fcveral cavities, the brain itfelf not excepted. Accordingly, we find, that in all thefe cafes, repeated bleedings, perfect reft, and ftri<5t diet, are the remedies to be preferred (ZK External applications in cafes where they can be em- ployed, are only acceflory remedies, which however are not to be neg- lected ; they muft only be varied according to circumftances. Some- times they are only to be fuch as to defend the parts, at other times, re- folutive fpirituous topics are to be applied ; fometimes emollient, relax- ing and anodine remedies ; fometimes faponaceous, balfamic, aftringent aromatics, tonics, and artificial pumping upon the part, with natural or artificial medicinal waters, &c. Thefe are all fubordinate methods, to which we are fometimes the more obliged to have recourle, the more we have neglected, in the firft inftance, the principal modes of cure which we have treated of. A fubjeft fo difficult, and fo extensive, required more genius to be well underftood, more talents and knowledge to be treated to the fatisfaClion of the Academy. I have at leaft exerted my beft endeavours to fulfill the conditions of the thefts ; and can only judge of my efforts, without being anfwerable for the fuccefs of them ; nor fhall 1 think my labours ufelefs, if they can only intitlc me to fome attention from thole who arc to decide upon them. NOTESi contained AUTHOR’S notes O N COUNTER-STROKES. (a) I DO not mean to fay, that writers have been entirely ignorant of this kind of caufe, although they have not mentioned it under the fpecific term of counter-ftroke ; much lefs do I aifert, that their pradtice has never been dire&ed according to the mechanifm, by which the complaints they obferved, had been produced. This would be to allow neither reflexion nor genius to our predecelfors.. I imagine only, that in many cafes, their attention has been rather engaged in difcovering the nature of the acci- dent, than in reflecting upon the feveral ways in which it might have been produced.- (b) We mu ft here make an allowance, for the lofs of the power of motion, by communication. .(c) This is the cafe of the cable that is veered away, for a certain time, in order to flop the boat gradually. If the head bore upon an in- flexible column, its motion, in falling upon the feet, would be flopped, at the very inftant that the feet came to the ground ; while the foft vifcus162 AUTHOR'S NOTES contained in the cavity of the cranium, would continue to {hike a gain ft: the balls of this cavity, with all the force that would have been imparted to it, by the velocity it would have acquired in the fall. This would produce, in the organization of this important vilcus, a difturbance of the fame kind as that which wasobferved in the brain of a criminal, who, running from a few paces back, dallied his head agamft the wall of his prifon. But the cartilages which line all the joints, thofe which unite the vertebrae with each other, and efpecially the various inflexions of the body in falls upon the feet, are the caufe that the head, conjingnear the ground when thefe parts are already at reft, can only lofe its motion in a gradual and imperceptible manner. (d) I have feen patients, cured of a fradture of the fibula, remaining a long time unable to wralk without crutches. (e) This was the third death Iliad feen happen at the fame period, and with the lame fymptoms, after compound fradtures of the legs which had been well reduced ; this circumftance led me to refledt. I inquired for the limb, and examined the ftateof the tibia ; the marrow contained in the cylinder of this bone, was lomewhat in a ftateof dilfolution towards the fradhired extremities, and the fmell of it was putrid in the higheft degree. This circumftance made me imagine, that a portion of the putrid mialmata produced by the dilfolution of the marrow, having been abforbed, had o:cafioned a true nervous difeafe; and in confequence of this idea, I de- termined to adopt fome other mode of proceeding in the firft cafe of the kind which my pradtice might furnifh me with. The opportunity foou prefented itfelf; when, inftead of putting the two ends of the tibia in exa-dl apportion, I placed them in fuck a manner, that by means of their foliation, and of a detached piece of bone which 1 took away, 1 could conveniently throw into the cavity of the bone any injedlion I might think proper; lb that 1 treated ithis cafe as every compound fradture is treated, with the additional precaution only, of injedling upwards and downwards into the cavity of the bone, at every drefting. By this contri- vance, mv patient was exempt from any of thole lymptoms which had luccdiively i163 ON COUNTER-STROKES. fucceffively deftroyed three others whom I had attended; and recovered with only a very trifling deformity of the leg. I wait for other opportu- ( nities of verifying thefe conjectures, in order to fend to the Academy an eflay upon a point of doCtrine which feems to be new. (f) Mifchiefs nearly of the kind, may very poflibly be the refult of a violent commotion which the marrow of the bone may have buffered in a fall, or a ftroke upon the part; and in that cafe, they would flill be the effects of a counter-ftroke upon a foft part, - (g) I have had feveral inftances of fimilar internal exfoliations; and not lono- ag;o, I extracted one of three inches from the infide of the tibia, but O O 7 7 the difeafe had not been the refult of any violence. (h) Probably the fall on the knees, in this in fiance, had caufed a frac- ture of the thigh lo near the joint, only on account of the woman having an old fub-luxation of the leg, fo that there was a deformity in the part, which gave an oblique direction to the fhock. (i) The cotyloide cavity prefenting an oval cup, the great diameter of which, is from above downwards, admits, by this contrivance, of this gliding, which contributes to deftroy the motion by degrees. (k) See Mr. Petit’s treatife on the difeafes of the bones. (l) No man can have a greater veneration for the memory of the celebrated Mr. Petit than I have; nor can entertain a more profound refpeCt for the opinions of this great man : but I have never had reafon to be fatisfied with the large incifions recommended by him, in certain cafes, to empty collections of matter in the joints; perhaps my practice may not yet have been fufficiently extenlive, or perhaps A may not have employed thefe incifions in the proper cafes. (m) If164 AUTHOR* 6 NOTES (m) If we recolleCt the manner in which the fpine bears upon the facrum, anil that this bone is inclined backwards, we (hall fee, that as the center of gravity of the upper parts, paffes only through the bafis of the os facrum, the weight of thefe parts muft neceflarily tend to pufh this bafis downwards and forwards, and confequently to raile the point of the os coccygis backwards. (n) Perhaps too thefe accidents were only the confequence of the con- tufion of the cartilages. (0) It mull be acknowledged, however, that the unfavourable fl.ate of the woman, and the diffuiion of the milky fecretion were auxiliary caufes, without which, the external, caufe might poffibly have produced no mifchief. (p) Hiftoire de 1’ Academie, tom. iv. page 19. (q) The divulfipn and extenfion of the ligaments connoting thefe bones, fometimes concurs powerfully in producing thefe mifchiefs ; but it muft be acknowledged, that they may be the refult, of the mere contu- foil or linking in of the bony fubftance of the laft vertebrae of the loins, or of the os facrum, without extenfion or divulfion of the ligament* which flrengthen their.connection with each other. (r) It is taken for granted, that in cafes of apparent difplacing of the bones, all the means, proper to bring about the reduction or natural con- formation of the parts, have been tried. % (f) A fracture is often the only effectual mode of prefervation, that na- ture could have.adopted under certain circumftallies. (t) * Jothing can be added to what the celebrated Mr, Pfiri r fays, in his work upon the difeafes of the bones, concerning the treatment proper for, thefe complaints. « (u) I net orON COUNTER-STROKES. i6$ (u) I never, faw any eryfipelas after the application of this mixture. •* • V (w) See his eflay \ipon this fubjefl, in the fourth volume, 4to, of the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery at Paris, page 614. ♦ (x) It might, however, be pofiible, that a carious fpot in the bone, aflifted with a depravation of the fluids, might have given rife to the fever and other fymptoms, which appeared to be the confequence of it. (y) I defire it may be remembered, that in the firfl inflance, I have clafled among the effects of counter-flrokes taken in the moft confined fenfe, fuch injuries only as might be produced by the immediate applica- tion of a fhock upon the part, where the diforder is feated ; from whence It follows, that diflocations not being included in this clafs, it appears to me, that they fhould only be confidered as the effects of counter-flrokes, taken in the mofl extenfive fenfe. (z) It is taken for granted, that in cafes of diflocation or frafture, the parts have been previoufly reduced. THE END. ZLATELY PUBLISHED, IN ONE VOLUME, QUARTO, Price ONE GUINEA, in Boards, SURGICAL TRACTS, By the late J. O. J U S T A M O N D, Follow of the Royal Society, and Surgeon to the Weflminfler Hofpital. Colle&ed and interfperfed with occafional Notes and Obfervations, By WILLIAM HOULSTON, Member of the Corporation of Surgeons, Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries, and of the Medical Society of London. Printed for T. Cad ell, in the Strand. ALSO PRINCIPLES OF PRACTICE IN THE CURE OF VENEREAL DISEASES, INTENDED AS AN EPITOME OF ALL THAT IIAS BEEN ADVANCED ON THE SUBJECT BY MODERN WRITERS. TO WHICH ARE ADDED A SERIES OF CASES IN WHICH THE CURE IIAS BEEN PROTRACTED BY SINGULAR CIRCUM- STANCES OR EY THE FAILURE OF MERCURY. By WILLIAM HOULSTON. LONDON: Printed for T. Cadell, in the Strand. m.dcc.xc.\... 1 •' « 1 I * 1*W- A