11E P 0 It T ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. BY DR. SANDERSON SUDDEN AND VIOLENT DEATHS. Asphyxia. Schuchardt. — On Death by Drowning. Henke, vol. xlii, pp. in—167. The laborious series of researches of which this important contribution is the result, was undertaken for the purpose of obtaining a certain method of determining, in cases of drowning, fhe main medico-legal ques- tion whether or not immersion preceded death. It had long ago been ascertained by experiments on animals, as well as by observations on the human subject, that, in drowning, the weight of the lung is usually increased by at least half, the degree of increase varying with the number of inspirations which take place after immersion; but the value of this fact as a criterion is entirely destroyed by the absence of any exact know- ledge of the normal weight of the organs, according to age, sex, and other modifying circumstances. It had also been ascertained that only a very inconsiderable increase of weight resulted from the injection of water into the air-passages of an animal previously killed by suffocation. Another test, founded on the same fact, is that recommended by Albert, which con- sists in the injection into the lungs of some coloured fluid, such as ink. If the whole lung becomes coloured uniformly, it may be assumed, according to Albert, that the individual was immersed after death, while the existence of portions of lung which retain their natural colour is con- sidered to prove that those portions had been penetrated by water, and that death must have taken place by drowning. But the observations of this author have not been confirmed by those who have repeated his experiments, a circumstance which Schuchardt attributes to the uncer- tainty and inconstancy of the method employed, particularly as regards the degree of force used in the injection. In order to avoid this and other similar sources of error, the author took for his point of departure and comparison the normal per-centage of water in the whole weight of the