481 FOUENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. distinctive characteristics of transitory homicidal mania. All the recorded cases of monomania may he grouped under one of the three following heads, viz., those in -which insanity is obvious and evident, those in which the crime is committed under the influence of violent emotion, and lastly those in which insanity is supposed to be manifested exclusively by the nature of the criminal act itself. The cases in the third category only, are referable to the form of insanity under consideration, cases in which the fatuity " commences with the crime, and ceases as soon as it has been accomplished." To the question whether such a form of insanity can be recognised as having a real existence, M. Bonnet answers in the negative, founding his conclusion on the examination of the grounds which have led medico-legists to the opposite opinion. These grounds have usually been—that the accused took no pains to conceal his crime, or even freely confessed the perpetration of the most flagrant atrocities ; that he exhibited the greatest anxiety to prove himself sane ; that the act was opposed to the whole tenor of his previous conduct; that it was entirely without motive, &c. The author endeavours to show that the reality of such indications is always questionable, and that any of them might be simulated by an individual well acquainted with the prevalent notions as to monomania. In the concluding section the author argues that the mere enormity and unnatural character of a crime affords no good ground for exempting the criminal from due retribution. " Such monomaniacs ought to be punished, because they act under the influence of a motive, which is not the less real because it is difficult to appreciate." It is matter of experience that other passions, less criminal, but not less irresistible, such as drunkenness, may be kept in check by the fear of consequences; and history teaches that moral epidemics of suicide, of mutilation, or of fanaticism, have been arrested by the same means. So also the irresistible passion for the shedding of blood may be mastered by the wholesome terror of prompt and certain punishment. Santlus.—On perverted expressions of the Will, and their relation to Imputation. Henke, vol. xxiv, part 3, p. 1. In an essay of 133 pages, the author enters on the never-ending dis- cussion how far perversions of volition may exist independently of perversions of intelligence, and under what conditions and limitations, the former may afford ground for assuming, as regards actions committed under their influence, that the agent is irresponsible. Proceeding from the assumption that the inquiry has for its object to determine the rela- tion between perversions of volition and of the other mental functions as a whole, the author divides the subject in several sections, discussing first, the relation of consciousness to other mental manifestations, particularly to those of the will, as exercised normally; secondly, the perversions of mental function which result from the interruption of this relation, and their bearing on responsibility. Without following the author into the intricacies of the subject, the general tendency of his argument may be understood from the following- condensed statement of his conclusions as to the question of imputation.0 The employment in psychology of such expressions as freedom of the will, or the opposite, is considered by the author to be erroneous, for it is