KEl'ORT ON FKACTICAL MEDICINE. 130 fluid may be removed by some of the contrivances to prevent the admission oi air. As our object should be to assist the natural processes, the fluid ought in the lirst instance to be only partially withdrawn; the remainder may be absorbed, or, if not, the tapping may be repeated. Delioux.—Bull. Gener. de Thcrapeut., Sept. 30th, 1861. Brit. & For. Med.-Cliir. Rev., Jan. Delioux recommends strongly the employment of iodine frictions in the treatment of pleurisy and endocarditis. The skin should first be thoroughly cleaned, and the following preparation then rubbed in for five minutes, night and morning :—R. Pot. Iod. ^j, Iodinii 31], Adipis ^iv, nj,. He has satisfied himself by examination that the iodine is absorbed, and he does not consider it necessary to give iodine at the same time internally. Chambers, T. K.—Clinical Lecture on Idiopathic Hydrothorax. Med. T. & Gaz., Feb. 8th. Chambers contends for retaining the name Idiopathic Hydrothorax, meaning thereby a collection of serum in the pleural cavity, injurious to health from its quantity, and arising from an abnormal state of the pleura itself. This abnormal state may be inflammatory, or perhaps mere arrest of absolution. Treatment by blisters, mercury, and diuretics is employed to promote absorption. Blisters do good by quickening the capillary circulation, and so inducing increased endosmosis. Landouzy.—On the Value of JEgophony as a Sign oj Pleurisy. Arch. Gener. de Med., Dec. 1861. Edin. Med. J., April. Landouzy records two cases which go to show, (1) that if the lung is compressed by fluid alone, without firm false membranes, as soon as the fluid is removed it resumes its normal play, and a considerable diminution in the bronchial breathing, fegophony, and dulness can be recognised at once. If the lung is invested with resistant false membranes, it does not at once recover the power of expansion, and for some time bronchial breathing and cegophony can be heard, and even more clearly than before, for the simple reason that the lung is now brought nearer to the ear. If, finally, the false membranes are fibrous or cartilaginous, the lung remains permanently imprisoned, and when the fluid is evacuated the modifications of the voice, of the breathing, and of the percussion remain as before. iEgophony thus results from external, bronchophony from internal, com- pression of the lung. Trousseau.—On the Treatment of Pleurisy. J. de Med. & de Chir. Pratiq., March 1862. Edin. Med. J., April. Trousseau eschews blood-letting, rarely even cupping, but gives calomel (a doses refractces) one-thirteenth of a grain 0. hora, with tr. aconit. and tr. digitalis. He never uses blisters, but, if the pleurisy is simple, and the effusion large, employs thoracentesis. He joins in Aran's opinion, that right-sided pleurisy is mostly of tubercular origin, while left-sided is simple.