1-1,1 1! A I, BIRTHS. Ho finger passing higher up and more to the right than usual. At the lowest part of the tumour was a round, smooth, small spot, like the external surface of the membranes, limited by a well-defined border, and into which the hand could be easily passed. This was considered to be the os uteri. It was slit up, and a quantity of offensive fluid evacuated. The tumour in great part subsided. Three days after, peritonitis anew set in, and the patient died on the seventh day after the operation. After death some remarkable abnormities were discovered. The uterus was double, united below, the left uterus larger than the right. It was considered probable, from the appearances presented, that the pregnancy occui-red in the right uterus; that the accumulation in the left uterus was the result of decomposition and destruction of a foetus, or the result of a conception in that division of the organ ; and further, that the en- largement in the left uterus began before the last pregnancy. It is further remarkable that there was only one kidney discoverable. _ The retained placenta seems to have disappeared during the patient's illness. PLUEAL BIRTHS. Thtee.—Case of Twin Pregnancy in a Double Utems. Ugeskrift for Laeger, July, 1861. The woman, set. 22, menstruated last in September. In February a tumour was evident on the left side. Labour set in on April 15th. A broad and tolerably deep furrow was evident in the uterine tumour, dividing it unequally, the left being the smaller. On examination the os uteri was partly open, the membranes entire, the head presenting ; pains weak. The pains increased on the 16th, and on the 17th the os w as the size of a thaler. Membranes still entire; bones of the head to be felt to the left; above and to the right a rounded, hard part to be felt. Postal heart beat distinctly, heard below and to the right of umbilicus. At 2*30 p.m. in the afternoon a female foetus, enveloped in its membranes and with a distinct placenta, was delivered, measuring ; weighing 18^ "loth," in a state of semi-mummification. The smaller side of the uterine tumour had disappeared. There was now felt at the os a second presentation of membranes and a foetal head, and the finger could be passed as if into two separate chambers. A few hours later a second child was born, which, at first apparently stillborn, was resuscitated. It measured 15%", weight three and three quarter pounds, appeared eight or nine weeks under its full term, and died on the following day. Placenta of second child expelled in half an hour. The woman died eight days subsequently, of puerperal peritonitis, pleuritis, &c. The uterus Avas heart-shaped, Avas divided into two cavities by a partition, thick above, but thin below; the os uteri single externally, double internally. The ovaries contained three corpora lutea; two in the right, one in the left. The death of the smaller foetus is considered by the author due to mechanical injury, the patient having overstrained herself in Pebruary. The complications of the case were such, the author remarks, that no extended conclusions can be drawn respecting the natural history of these very rare cases. Ergot, he