231 SYPHILIS. one of the accidents which experience has shown to be particularly indicative of the use of mercury (such as induration, iritis, aphonia, &c), I adopt an empirical treatment, giving the so-called specific alone, or associated with other agents, until the complete cure of the accident in question. I employ, in the same way, iodides to combat the chloro-anaemic condition of the 'first period, and to relieve the pain of tertiary ulcerations. In short, and in spite of its proved insufficiency in too many circumstances, I do'not hesitate to prescribe mercury, or to continue its employment as lone as do those of my colleagues who are the most convinced of its - efficacy and necessity, in all cases where the course of the disease has shown me that I have to treat the severe form of syphilis. But even in these cases we must not trust exclusively to this drug, so often unfaithful, but must employ, concurrently or separately, iodine, and the most active means for strengthening the constitution, afforded us by hygiene and hydrology ; finally, we must avail ourselves of the therapeutic means derived from a study of other virulent diseases, means which, it is to be hoped, will enable us to remove from the treatment of syphilis the stigma which has for so long been attached to it." Dr. Reder is of opinion, that chancre has no essential connection with syphilis, and that the reason, why it so often precedes the outbreak of constitutional symptoms, is simply because it forms the readiest entrance for the syphilitic poison ('Med. Jahrb., Zeits.,' &c, 1862, i, 57). Danielsen, in many thousand inoculations of syphilitic matter in cases of spedalskhed aud syphilis, had only one that became indurated. The patient was affected with spedalskhed, and had been inoculated already 393 times, 278 times with a positive result. The matter for one of the later inoculations was taken from a chancre, which afterwards became indurated ; the point of inoculation soon cicatrized ; forty-eight days later, however, the cicatrix again gave way, and a superficial ulcer with but little secre- tion was formed. After its cure the cicatrix was indurated, and three months later there occurred general syphilis. In no case, where the inocu- lation produced a soft sore, did constitutional symptoms appear (' Med. Jahrb., Zeits.,' &c, 1862, i, Anal. 106). Professor Lindwurm has made some important observations (' Wiirzb. Med. Zeit.,' iii, 143) : we can here only note that he has recorded five cases, in which constitutional syphilis was transmitted to healthy individuals by means of inoculation. The fourth and most important case is the following: —Marie E—, set. 71, has suffered for many years from a large, deeply penetrating ulcer of the forehead, almost two inches hi diameter, and placed directly above the nose. Both frontal sinuses have been laid open by destruction of their anterior wall; the fundus of this ulcer discharges but little pus, bleeds readily, is very red and closely covered with large granulations, between which a probe can be passed with ease down to the bone, and even at some parts into it. Microscopical examination shows abundant proliferation of the sebaceous follicles, so that the ulcer may be considered to be a destructive adenoid. The patient has never had syphilis. On the 27th May, 1861, blood derived from a case of constitu- tional syphilis was injected subcutaneously at two spots between the sca- pulcc. The blood was drawn, the moment before its use, by means of a cup- ping glass, from ^perfectly normal portion of the back of a syphilitic person.