KKI'OItT ON MIDW1KKUV, ETC. was opened. The child lay in the third cranial position. There was no liquor amnii. The l'ootus, a female, measured 17", and weighed .^lbs.; it was fully developed; the head measured, horizontal circumference, 35 centimetres, the occipitofrontal diameter was 4^", the small trans- verso diameter 3", the larger 3^", the occipito-mental diameter 4-5". The placenta, seated on the posterior wall, was partly detached; the pelvic inlet was, as it were, divided into two parts by the projecting lumbar vertebra; at the narrowest part the measurement was 2" 10"'. There was considerable mobility of the lumbo-sacral joint, so that the last lumbar vertebra could be pulled upwards and backwards some lines. The hody of the fifth lumbar vertebra overhung the first and second sacral vertebra? very considerably. The last lumbar vertebra and the first sacral were greatly altered in size and texture. The most anterior part of the last lumbar vertebra had a softish consistence ; the posterior part wras much harder. The inter-vertebral cartilage of the lumbo-sacral joint was almost entirely gone ; the lower and left angle of the body of the lumbar vertebra had been absorbed, and the upper border of the superior sacral vertebra. The superior sacral vertebra was 7"' instead of 1" 2—3"' deep. The author considers this kind of deformity of the pelvis a more difficult one to deal with than that produced by rickets. The head could not even enter or become engaged in the inlet. Owing to the con- striction being in the conjugate diameter, with a rachitic pelvis, having the conjugate diameter of 2" 10"', the head can be reached by forceps, or other instruments more easily. Thus, whereas in a rachitic pelvis, with conjugate diameter of 2'' 10"', the labour may be terminated with safety to the mother, this cannot be reckoned on in the distortion above described. Probably, under all circumstances, the Cesarean section should be performed when the child is alive. With respect to the origin of the deformity, the author considers that it was due to the in- flammatory softening set up by the accident alluded to above. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE UTERI7S. Pate, Prof.— Uterus Duplex Bicornis cum Vagina Simplici. Two De- liveries, loth effected by Podalic Version. Norsk Mag., xv, p. 593. Schmidt, 114, p. 56. In Pebruary, 1861, a woman ret. 39^was admitted into the Christiania Lying-in Hospital, having been delivered for the second time three weeks previously. In 18 <j6 she was delivered by turning at full term of ges- tation. In May, i860, became pregnant a second time, and was delivered on January 31st, 1861, of a dead child, showing traces of putridity, and presenting transversely and requiring the operation of turning. Neither the midwife nor two medical men who were called in could deliver tlio placenta. She was attacked with peritonitis, and admitted into the hospital on the seventeenth day. A rounded, semi-fluctuating tumour occupied the hypogastrium, reaching beyond the umbilicus, and a smaller one to the right and above, which did not appear to be connected with the former. A rounded, tight tumour was found on vaginal examination occupying the pelvis on the left side especially, the