280 BBPOET ON BUEQBEY. the ophthalmic division of the fifth, the eye loses all its sensibility, and yet neither hypenemia nor inflammation is the result. Besides, Snellen had forgotten to prove, that in his experiments the nerve had been really and entirely divided. On a repetition of the experiments of Snellen, Schift' invariably found hypersemia of the conjunctiva and of the iris, and also some opacity of the cornea. Under the guidance of Prof. Meissner, the author has repeated the experiment of dividing the fifth nerve in sixty rabbits ; in about twenty-five of these he succeeded in the section without wounding other important parts. He employed the neurotome, and followed the method of C. Bernard (' Lecons sur la Phys. et la Pathol, du Systeme nerveux,' ii, 51) ; he found that the cerebrum was always slightly wounded, but that if other important parts (such as the carotid artery or cavernous sinus) were avoided, the operation in no way endangered life. Dr. Biittner found Schiff's repetition of Snellen's experiment confirmed; the inflammation was always developed, though more slowly, than when the eye was exposed. As these experiments were, however, open to objection, Dr. Biittner proceeded to try others, at the same time perfectly protecting the eye from external irritants by a leather capsule, in which a watch-glass was fitted, so that the eye could at any time be examined without being uncovered. The result was, that so long as the eye was perfectly protected by the capsule, there did not occur the least alteration —no redness, opacity, or increased secretion could be per- ceived ; in a few hours after its removal, however, all the ordinary symptoms appeared. Thus it seems to be fully proved, that section of the trigeminus causes no direct change in the nutrition of the eye, and that the consecutive inflammation is always excited by external irritation. Another question is, whether section of the fifth causes a greater tendency to hypersemia, a diminished power of resisting the action of external agents, or whether the simple reason is,'that owing to the loss of sensibility, the eye is exposed to irritants in a way, which could not have occurred, had it possessed its normal feeling. The author takes the former view, because, as already stated, and as he had an opportunity of observing in three rabbits, the eye may lose all sensibility, and yet no inflammation ensue. On the dissection of these cases, he found, that the origin of the ophthalmic division and not the Gasserian ganglion had been wounded, and that even the nerve was not entirely divided, a small portion of its under surface remaining entire. So much for neuro- paralytic inflammation. There is, however, another and much more acute form of inflammation, which appears to be caused by irritation of the Gasserian ganglion ; at least such is the conclusion to be drawn from one of the author's experi- ments, and also from one related by Samuel. The latter irritated the ganglion in rabbits by means of the induction apparatus ; this process was followed in less than twenty-four hours by a violent inflammation of the conjunctiva and cornea, ending in ulceration. The severity of the attack increased up to the third day, then again diminished. During this process, the sensibility of the eye'was rather increased, than lessened. According to Dr. Biittner's experiment, this form of inflammation comes on, even though the eye is perfectly protected from external irritants. The varying statements of different authors may be probably to some