318 REI>ORT ON SURGERY. "In the class of healthy adults.— If the calculus is of small or of medium size, and single, whether it be soft, friable, or compact, and sup- posing it proved by preliminary examination, that instrumental ma- nipulations can be easily performed, and are -well borne, it may be crushed. "But the term 'medium' here used in relation to size, although admit- ting of a little extension for calculi of uric acid and the urates, must be restricted quite within the limits assigned for those of oxalate of lime. Their spheroidal general outline makes a medium-sized calculus (one inch in diameter) quite large enough, if not sometimes too large, for lithotrity. " If there is any special or exceptional ground for rejecting lithotrity in such cases, some form of central perineal operation is well adapted to them. The median, if the stone is small or medium ; the medio-bila- teral, if it is of full medium size ; the latter offering more room at small risk when it appears to be required. Probably the result by Buchanan's operation would be equally good; its present achievement in adults is at the rate of eight cases with one death. The median, in adults, from Mr. Allarton's collected cases, has given one death in seven. The lateral, from ^10 cases of adults, in our own table (but including stones of the largest size), one death in five and a quarter cases. If, on the other hand, the stone is large, and especially if it be also one of compact structure, the lateral operation would, I believe, generally be the best to select. For a large and friable stone lithotrity may be successful ; but such, where the patient's age is between twenty-five and forty years, would probably be as well dealt with also by lateral lithotomy. " The question is to be considered for (6) feeble and diseased adult •patients. > " i. Where there is no marked disease of the urinary organs, but feeble and failing strength:—If the calculus is of small size, and friable, and instrumental contact is well borne, there is no question that lithotrity should be the operation selected. If of medium size, one would also incline to perform it, if possible ; but if hard and compact in structure, median or medio-bilateral lithotomy would probably be a safer pro- ceeding. "a. Where well-marked disease of some portion of the urinary organs exists:— " In stricture of the urethra, especially if it has existed long and is well marked, lithotomy is preferable to lithotrity in all cases, but those of the very smallest calculi. " In hypertrophied prostate, with a quiet condition of the bladder, litho- trity is successful in small and even with medium-sized stones; but with an irritable condition of the bladder, and with compact and large stones, lateral lithotomy seems far preferable, and in such seems more successful than median operations. " In cases where the bladder cannot expel its contents on account of loss of power in its coats—i. e. atony—and not on account of enlarged prostate, no objection lies on that ground merely against lithotrity ; in- deed, such a condition is much more favorable to success than that of