REPORT ON SURGERY. 182 was always caused by the greater or less thickness of the threads, and by the greater or less roughness of their surface; the difference during the first seven or eight days depending on the size, that during a later period on the roughness. There was no appreciable difference in the intensity of the suppuration when well-twisted silk of the diameter of thick horsehair was compared with delicate metallic wire. In both cases, when the sutures were left untied, there was slight swelling, and on the third or fourth day a very scanty purulent discharge from the punctures; wben firmly tied, or when introduced through mucous membrane, both suppurated earlier and more freely. After six or eight days, however, a slight difference appeared; the metallic threads no longer suppurated, the silk threads generally discharged slightly. As, however, this difference does not appear till after the sixth or eighth day, it can have no effect on union by the first intention. The tissues were divided by metallic, just as rapidly as by silk thread of the same thickness. Thus, fine silk thread is in no respect infe- rior to wire, in some respects it is superior; owing to its great flexibility, the absence of all elasticity, and its relatively great strength, it may be introduced and tied with the greatest simplicity and ease, both on the surface and in cavities; besides, silk sutures are much more readily removed than metallic. He entirely rejects Simpson's explanation of the differences (real or supposed) between metallic and organic sutures. He considers that the history of the operation for vesico-vaginal fistula fur- nishes a most striking proof, that the material, of which the sutures are composed, has no influence on union by the first intention. Jobert, with his thick, flat ligatures, cured far more cases than Dieffenbach and Wutzer, who used fine metallic threads. And why ? Because the former rendered the fistula more accessible, because he pared its margins more freely and exactly, and because he united more carefully. The Americans and English obtained still better results than Jobert, because by the invention of Siins's speculum the operation was still more facilitated, and also because union by numerous fine sutures was better than union by broad liga- tures. Simon's results have even surpassed the latter; not, in his opinion, because he employed fine silk, but because he rendered the fistula more accessible, improved the methods of paring and uniting, and amended the after-treatment. CAUSES OF DEATH AFTER OPERATIONS. Mr. Paget ('Brit. Med. Jpurn.,' 1862, ii, 157) points out the need of a much more minute record and analysis than has yet been made of the causes of danger and mortality after operations. There are certain classes of cases to which, if they are to be tabulated at all, separate tables must be assigned, because in them the history of the operation and its conse- quences cannot be separated from that of the disease for which it is performed. Thus it is, for example, with operations for hernia, with tracheotomy, and trephining. Every surgeon has lost a large proportion of his patients after those operations, but the operations themselves are very rarely the cause of death, the worst that can be said of them is that they do not always save life. Such are deaths after operations, not