117 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. where, however, the plugging was more complete the inflammation was of a more intense character, and the exudation was or soon became puriform. Eaumler, Ch.—Deutsche Klinik, March 22nd, April 5th. Relates a case of complete obstruction of the vena cava ascendens and the branches of the portal vein in a female. The disease seems to have com- menced fifteen years before her death, about the age of thirty. There was at first diarrhoea, occasionally bloody, subsequently jaundice, and dropsical enlargement of the lower half of the body. The abdominal veins were greatly enlarged, and conveyed the blood upwards from the crural. The spleen was greatly hypertrophied. Shortly before death a very large amount of blood was vomited. The liver was found cirrhotic and atrophied, the spleen very large, the stomach healthy, the inferior cava from its commencement upwards, as far as the entrance of the renal veins, converted into a solid, round, firm cord. The liver was traversed by a network of almost tendi- nous fibres, which were evidently obliterated vessels, and contained two fibrous tumours of about the size of a hazel-nut. Kottmier.—Fibrous New Formation in the Heart, a tme Cardiac Polypus. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxiii, p. 434. This growth sprang by a narrow stalk from the septum of the left auricle, near the foramen ovale, and hung down a little way into the left ventricle. The patient was a male, set. 47, who suffered with fixed pain under the middle of the sternum, severe nocturnal oppression and dyspnoea, and violent action of the heart. The radial pulse was extremely small. Demme, H.—On Extra-cranial Blood-cysts communicating with the Sinuses of the Dura Mater. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxiii, p. 48. Demme states that such cysts may be produced by the Pacchionian glands causing absorption, so that a communication is formed between the sinus and extra-cranial blood-vessels. He gives a case of this. In another group such cysts are produced by true varices of the external veins of the head, which communicate directly with the corresponding sinus through the channel of the vessel concerned. A third group is formed by cases in which the sinuses themselves become dilated, cause absorption and perfora- tion of the cranial wall, or bulge out through a pre-existing opening. He relates one case in which this seems to have occurred congenitally. Fetters.—Prag. Vjhrschr., lxxii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 183. Records a case in which there occurred remarkable dilatation of the lymphatic glands of the right groin, small and large intestine. The glands were converted into cyst-like cavities tensely filled with a yellow fluid, and the afferent and efferent vessels were also much dilated. The cause of this dilatation of the lymphatics is supposed by Pettcrs to be the obstruction to the circulation resulting from the diseased state of the heart, both mitral and tricuspid orifices being contracted, the former especially. The liver was cirrhotic, and there had been considerable ascites. It does not appear that the absorbents in other parts of the body were affected.