AXEURISM. 249 femoral artery has been employed five times for five popliteal aneurisms, with the following results ; in three cases, gangrene of the limb, in the fourth death ensued on the sixth day from haemorrhage, the fifth case is doubtful. Another statistical report presents somewhat similar results ; in three cases of ligature of the external iliac for three arterio-venous aneurisms of the femoral artery, one ended fatally from attacks of haemor- rhage, and two were followed by mortification of the limb. Ariel's method, applied to arterio-venous aneurism, is therefore attended with very serious risk. c. The influence of the ligature upon the aueurismal circulation is nega- tive ; the result is a total failure. The sac allows the venous blood to enter, and such blood, constantly agitated, does not present the condition necessary for coagulation. It follows, that for these various reasons this method must be rejected. A last method consists in opening the sac and applying ligatures upon the artery both above and below. All communication between the artery and the vein is thus cut off. This operation has been tolerably often per- formed ; it is potent, but very difficult. In fact, the development of an aueurismal tumour in any part whatever of the human body almost entirely destroys the normal relations of the artery with the surrounding tissues, and, in addition, the stream of blood, which never ceases flowing during the operation, prevents the surgeon clearly seeing the incisions he is obliged to make. I remember an operation of the kind performed by Roux, the only surgeon, perhaps, who much employed this treatment. The operation was deplorable, everything went wrong. The median nerve was first tied in mistake for the brachial artery; the haemorrhage con- tinuing just as copious, the artery was at length discovered, but instead of passing the ligature behind, the vessel was pierced from side to side, thus unintentionally establishing an arterial seton. The interruption of the haemorrhage was of but short duration, and its reappearance necessi- tated amputation of the arm. A. Berard opened at Necker the sac, with the view of finding the two ends of the artery and applying ligatures; he could scarcely finish the operation. From what I have seen, and from dissections I have made of arterio- venous aneurisms, I believe myself in a position to affirm, that the method of operating by opening the aneurism and proceeding to tie the two ends of the artery above and below the sac is very long and very difficult. Even should its performance be successfully accomplished, what is the consequence ? Very frequently the interior of the sac becomes inflamed, any clots of blood it may contain undergo putrid decomposition, most serious symptoms make their appearance, and the life of the patient is seriously endangered. Should we not, in the case before us, weigh well the dnngers that may arise from so important an operation ? Cer- tainly ;—we should especially remember the statement made in the begin- ning of these lessons, that air arterio-venous aneurism has not, like the arterial, a tendency to enlarge and rupture; that there is a true safety valve in the communication established between the artery and the vein ; and that there is not in this form a cul-de-sac, on which all the force of the arterial tension is concentrated.