351 HEMORRHAGE. favorable results. He finds that one ounce of water runs off from the funnel in eight seconds. The great obstacles hitherto to using transfusion have been the complexity of the apparatus, the dread of introducing air, and timidity on the part of the surgeon, from want of dexterity or practice. The vein must be properly exposed, or the blood will be injected into the cellular tissue. "Weickert.—Transfusion for 'Postpartum Hcemorrhage. Deut. Klin., June 7th, 1862, p. 230. The patient, set. 43, was delivered of her tenth child at 10"45 a.m. ; hemorrhage then occurred; the uterus only slightly contracted. At 2*15 p.m. she was found in an excessively anaemic condition ; extremities cold, quite pulseless; placenta still adherent firmly to the fundus uteri. By friction externally and introduction of the hand, it was removed in a quarter of an hour, and the uterus contracted well. During the next two hours there was but slight loss of blood, the friction externally being continued, and tincture of iron injected into the uterus. Wine, opium, and ether, were given; but, notwithstanding, the patient's condition became worse ; there were repeated faintings, a feeling of weight in the cardiac region, difficulty in breathing, singing in the ears, complaint that the bedclothes were heavy, extreme restlessness, continued coldness of extremities ; heart's impulse and pulse variable, sometimes not to be felt; eyes lustreless and sunken. In addition to these symptoms there came on obstinate coughing and vomiting. It was now decided to perform the operation of transfusion. The operation was performed under difficulties, there being insufficient space, light, and assistance. Martin's method and his instrument were employed. The blood was procured from the son, seventeen years old, and the median vein was opened in the left arm of the patient. The canula and trochar were introduced. By a motion of the arm of the patient the canula was ejected. The vein was now more exposed and separated from the cellular tissue, and by means of a needle a thread was passed beneath it, and thereby more control obtained over it. The assistant had now the canula as well as the ends of the thread to hold; only as much blood was drawn at a time into the vessel, previously warmed, as was required for a single injection. Owing to the fainting of the individual the blood was taken from, a woman was next bled, and a sufficient quantity of blood obtained from her. The great difficulty encountered was in the tendency of the blood to coagulate, and during the time necessary to fill the syringe with blood this coagulation took place. In consequence of a great quantity of the blood becoming clotted in the syringe, it was difficult to estimate the number of ounces which were injected. Finally, the canula became choked up, and no more blood could be injected. During the injection consciousness was maintained; there was one more attack of fainting, but this only lasted a short time, and the patient began rapidly to improve. She completely recovered, and there was no inflam- mation of the vein. In reference to the general question as to em- ployment of transfusion, the difficulties as regards the prognosis often interfere with its performance in proper cases. It often happens thus that life is lost while the deliberation ia proceeding. The most