353 OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. account for the accident the author states his belief that the thin and soft condition of the cervix uteri, in conjunction with the large head, probably brought it about, although at no time was uterine action strong. LACERATION OF PERINiEUM. Cohen.—On Subcutaneous Myotomy of the Constrictor Cunni, as a means of preventing Laceration of the Perineeum. Mon. f. Geb., supp. part for 1861, p. 106. The author believes that the old theory that perinael laceration begins Avith a tearing of the skin of the perinaeuin is incorrect, and that the laceration of the fascia? and muscles surrounding the vaginal entrance (the fascia superficialis, the constrictor cunni and the fascia profunda) is the primary cause. The proposed operation, which the author has twice performed, consists in cutting through the fibres of the constrictor close to the clitoris (+—|) by " mean" of a lithotomy knife. The time for the operation is during a pain and when the head is about to emerge; the guide to the muscle is the firm band felt during the pain. The mucous membrane is not to be cut through. The left side is first to be ope- rated on, and, if considered necessary, afterwards the right. The effect of the operation is to produce immediate relaxation of the perineal structures. OBSTETEICAL OPERATIONS. ARTIFICIAL INDUCTION OF PREMATURE LABOUR. Prof. Martin.—On Artificially Induced Premature Labour. Mon. f. Geb., Jan. and Feb., 1862. Martin's cases forming the subject of this paper were twenty-two in number. In three instances the operation was performed twice in the same individual. Five women were primiparae, the rest multipara). Con- traction of some part of the parturient canal was present in twenty cases, in nineteen of which the pelvis was the part contracted. In all these labour cases the antero-posterior diameter was shortened, and in several of them the oblique diameters also. With reference to the indications for the induction of artificial premature labour, the author considers that general pelvic contraction, whether with or without accompanying contraction of one diameter specially, certainly indicates its necessity ; but in cases when the contraction is limited to one diameter, unless the degree of the same be very considerable, it is advisable to wait the result of the first labour. It has been found that in some cases, where the antero-posterior diameter has not exceeded 2]", the result has been successful for mother and child when matters have taken their own course. This may be explained by—1, the smallness of the children and the soft condition of the bones of the first children of rachitic mothers ; 2, the powerful nature of the labour-pains in the first labours of such women; 3, by the fact that the oblique diameters being often greatly increased in such cases, room is thereby given for the head to pass through, with its shortest diameter opposed to the part of the pelvis, when the contraction is greatest. On the other hand, in the subsequent labours of rachitic women with such moderate degrees of pelvic narrow- 23