498 lUiPORT ON TUBLIC HEALTH. populations, among whom consanguineous and even incestuous unions are common, tlie proportion of deaf and dumb is correspondingly high. Thus, in the State of Iowa, while 2-3 deaf and dumb are met with in every 10,000 wliites, there are no less than 212 among the slaves, and in other states of the Union, similar relations prevail. In localities in which natural obstacles exist to the marriage of persons not of the same blood, the relative number of deaf and dumb is found to be exces- sive. Thus, in France, there are 6 deaf and dumb to every 10,000 inhabitants ; but in Corsica the number amounts to 14, in the Hautes Alpes 23, in Iceland 11, and in the Canton of Berne to 28. Boudin finds that the offspring of consanguineous marriages are liable to congenital deafness and dumbness, independently of any hereditary predisposition whatever; on the other hand, deaf and dnmb parents, if not related, very rarely give birth to children having the same infirmity. Separate sections are devoted to the influence of consanguinity, on sterility and albinism ; but the author admits that his inferences on these subjects are not based on a sufficient number of facts to be regarded as positive. Child.—On Marriages of Consanguinity. Med.-Chir. Rev., No. 58, p. 461. In this paper the author first examines the supposed analogy between marriages of consanguinity and the in-and-in breeding of animals, in relation to which he points out, that in the breeding of stock, the degrees of consanguinity admitted are so close as compared with those which occur among mankind (e. g. in the pedigrees of shor,t-horned cattle, the same bull often appears as the sire of four successive generations), that there is no real analogy between the cases. In so far as facts derived from this source are admissible, they tend to show that, unless the parents are themselves diseased, close breeding does not result in the deterioration of the progeny. In the second part of the paper he draws attention to the uncertainty of all investigation of the effects of consanguineous alliances in the human subject, arising from the impossibility of ascertaining by personal inquiry, the existence in the families investigated, of latent transmissible taints, and points out that no multiplication of cases will diminish this difficulty, for the tendency on the part of those from whom alone information can be obtained, must, in every instance, be to suppress facts of this nature. The author concludes that, although in practice, marriages of consanguinity often induce degeneration, they do so only by strengthening or developing in the offspring the individual peculiarities of the parents both mental and physical, whether morbid or otherwise, and that by a proper regard to the laws of hereditary transmission, and a careful investigation of the "hygienic history of the family," the chance of healthy offspring may be estimated by the physician, and an opinion given for or against any proposed alliance. Mitchell.— On Marriages of Consanguinity and their influence on Off- spring. Medico Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh, Edin. Med. Journ., p. 872. Dr. Mitchell's paper is based on inquiries made by himself as Deputy Commissioner in Lunacy. His investigation extended to whole comma-