POISONOUS GASES. 469 and sternal oppression, and the pulse and breathing were accelerated. In the most severe case, already referred to, the limbs were spasmodically extended, and the other two adults complained of shivering and rigors. The first symptoms came on in the same manner in all of the cases. None of the patients experienced anything amiss until they attempted to move. The mother, who was first attacked, got up to make the fire, in doing which she perceived the smell of gas, and immediately afterwards became giddy and fell senseless. The maid servant, in getting up to help her mistress, fell in the same manner, and finally the sister, who had also left her bed, after holding out for half an hour, suddenly fainted. By the evening all the patients had recovered. The following facts relating to the fatal case are derived from the evidence of the ordinary medical attendant and experts. Mrs. E—, a widow, resided in an. apartment on the first floor, consisting of four rooms, the largest of which was her bedroom. At the time of the accident she had been for ten days suffering from bronchial catarrh, in consequence of which she had been advised to keep her bed for the two preceding days. Early on Friday morning, after sleeping quietly for some hours, she fell senseless on getting out of bed, and was supposed to be in a fit, but on the arrival of the doctor all symptoms had disap- peared. On the following morning early he was again sent for, and found the patient sleeping quietly, but from time to time making choreic movements of the hands and feet, which he attributed to the effect of half a grain of opium given the previous afternoon. During the day she remained well, and slept all night. On Sunday morning Dr. B— found her sleeping quietly. The breathing was tranquil and deep, the pulse full, the skin moist. On being loudly spoken to she did uot wake, and he observed that a fine froth escaped from her lips. Under the idea that she had been asphyxiated by the fumes of burning peat from the stove, all the windows were at once opened, and the patient removed into the next room. But finding, on inquiry, that the servants who had slept in the same room with the stove were unaffected, his suspicion fell on the gas. In this surmise he was confirmed by hearing that other individuals had suffered in other parts of the house from gid- diness, headache, and vomiting. No smell of gas was perceptible, either in the room or elsewhere. In consultation with Dr. A—, frictions and cold affusions were at once employed, and in a short time the pulse became perceptible, and the patient remained in a state of partial consciousness for the rest of the day, during which the chest affection would appear to have made rapid progress, for the normal breath sounds were replaced by mucous rales, which were heard universally on the right side. She slept quietly, but the next morning the breathing became short and quick, and the pulse so rapid that it could not be counted; the skin, which the day before was red, assumed a tinge of lividity, and about 8 p.m. she died. The most important pathological appearances observed at the autopsy, which took place forty-two hours after death, were the following :_! Although the room in which the body lay was warm, there °was scarcely a trace of putrefaction. The joints were supple, the muscles soft and relaxed, and the physiognomy that of tranquil sleep. The 31