363 OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. extract the head with crotchet and forceps entirely failed. The Cesarean section was then resolved on, and performed sixteen hours after the patient was first seen. She survived the operation forty-six hours. Pagexstecher.—Of the Statistics of the Ccesarean Section, with remarks on Osteomalacia. Mon. f. Greb., Jan. and Feb., "1862. Twelve cases are tabulated. Out of ten operations, six were cases of osteomalacia, and two of them in the same individual. There were four cases of rachitic deformity. In one case rupture of the uterus preceded the operation, and in another the patient was in a dying state. Four of the mothers were in a good condition before the operation, four were affected with extreme degrees of osteomalacia and marasmus, two were in a dying state. Of the ten children, three died before birth, one was dying, one was stillborn, four were born alive. Of the seven cases fatal to the mother, the cause of death was in one rupture of uterus, in one marasmus from osteomalacia, in two exhaustion from same cause, in two haemorrhage into abdomen, in one purulent perito- nitis. The result of the operation was markedly more favorable when it was undertaken before rupture of the membranes; under other cir- cumstances the prostration, exhaustion, and want of contractility of the uterus, exercised a marked effect also in leading to an unfa- vorable result. There was nothing in the manner of performing the operation or in the after-treatment calling for particular remark. It appears that osteomalacia is frequently observed in the neighbour- hood of the author's residence (Elberfeld), especially in the larger towns. Eepeatedly he has observed women who were rachitic become subjects of osteomalacia. It affects almost exclusively women of the poorer classes, living in small, confined, damp houses, who are badly fed, and have many and rapidly succeeding pregnancies. The charac- teristic signs are—pains in the bones affected, mostly beginning in one or both of the ossa ischii, and extending towards the symphysis and in other directions; pressure but slightly increases the pain, while the functional disturbance is great. Movement of the affected parts is rapidly interfered with, owing to the pain produced by the action of the muscles. Careful passive movements are more easily borne. With repeated exacerbations and remissions, the disease may last years or months; bronchial catarrh and diarrhoea are obstinate concomitant affections; the patient becomes anaemic; fat and muscle diminish in quantity. During life the changes in the bones are manifested ex- ternally by bending, diminution in breadth and length, and softening of the bones. The bending occurs from pressure of the other parts of the body in consequence of muscular action. In most cases the bones sur- rounding the pelvic outlet are nearly equally affected. The lateral posture of the patient produces the transverse narrowing of the pelvis usually witnessed. The exact degree and direction of the deformity produced depends on the habitual position assumed by the patient. The whole process is one of resorption of earthy constituents of the bones. There is no marked increase in the saline constituents in the urine, but there is copious excretion of these matters from the bronchial and intestinal mucous membrane,