TUMOURS. 257 of epithelium, and others near the mammary or labial glands consist of glandular tissue. Thus in bone we have ossifying cancer; ossifying recurrent fibroids, or osteosarcoma. The simple fibrous tumour of bone would, of course, be replaced by an exostosis or enehondroma, both of them innocent tumours ; or in the medullary cavity of the shaft by a myeloid. This name, given by Mr. Paget, is distinctive, and points not only to its nature but its outward aspect; for growing from a centre in the middle of the bone, it assumes a rounded form very characteristic of the disease. It may, of course, be associated with other elements, when a tumour involves a large part of the shaft, but then, of course, it is not entitled to its own name alone; in its simple form it may be called an innocent growth, and in all the recorded cases this has been its character. In one case, however, it returned after removal, and subsequently tumours of a similar nature sprang up in the lungs; a case clearly pi'oving that a tumour which under ordinary circumstances is loath to contaminate the system, may do so under the favouring influence of a long period of time. Another example is the female breast; cancer and semi-malignant growths, as recurrent fibroid, may occur here as elsewhere, but the simple tumour is replaced by the adenocele, a tumour composed of imperfect mammary tissue. An interesting and important point to observe is, that occasionally, together with the mammary tissue, the fibre is of the recurrent fibroid variety, and thus a tumour which may be styled simply adenocele, may return in virtue of the other element which it contains, or be developed probably as a secondary growth in the lungs. No case has yet been recorded where the mammary elements have been propagated in distant parts. In the uterus and prostate, the simple muscular tissues are repro- duced, and the so-called fibrous tumour of these organs is really a mus- cular one. As regards melanosis, I may say that every fresh example of the disease which I witness confirms the opinion which I have always held,— that this is a disease which always takes its rise in a part of the body where pigment previously existed,—and thus we find it springing up on a mole or mother's mark; at other times having its origin in the choroid coat of the eye. In most of the cases which I have seen, this has clearly been the case, and the disease has been simply a mixture of pig- ment with the constituents of tumours already mentioned. Thus an innocent fibrous tumour may contain pigment; a recurrent fibroid may be also melanotic; and of this I have a capital example where a tumour sprang up on a mole and returned several times after removal. In most cases it is associated with a cell-growth or cancer, and thus the melanosis is rather a melanoid cancer,—a mixture of cells and pigment. The pig- ment is generally composed of roundish brown bodies of about the size of the cancer-cells, and is in itself a substance of easy diffusion through the body; so that I suppose there are few diseases which affect so many parts of the body or are so malignant as melanosis. Whether a tumour may consist wholly of pigment and spread through the body simply as pig'- menf, is a case which I much wish to witness. This would be an instance of simple melanosis, and one which I see no reason why it might not occur. ^ \Varty and villous growths must be,, regarded as having no necessary distinctive qualities of their own, the characters which these names imply m 17