DISEASES, ETC., OF THE PCETUS. 417 DonBtf.— On the Torsion of the Funis and the Stenosis of its Vessels produced therehj. Mon. f. Geb., Aug., 1861. The author, after giving an historical rfoumc of writings on this sub- ject, describes the following cases :—A pluripara dated her pregnancy from the middle of December, 1839. After tbe end of June following the movements of the child ceased, in consequence, as she believed, of a severe fright, and from this time the abdomen and breasts began to diminish in size without any feeling of illness. First, on the 12th of December, labour-pains began to be felt. The uterus was found smooth and hard, the pains very weak. "Without bleeding, or appearance of liquor amnii, a female foetus was expelled breech foremost. The foetus was macerated, and much shrivelled, the extremities thin, the epidermis wrinkled. The cranial bones movable one over the other, orbits empty, the two halves of the lower jaw separate. The foetus was of about seven months' development. Its length 13", weight one pound. Funis, medium thickness, 18" long, 28 times twisted on itself and at its fcetal end over a space of 3" very much contracted. The umbilicus protuberant. Injections pass through the vessels. The umbilical vein has a diameter of \"' at the constricted portion, near that of 4^'", else- where of 4"'. The width of the left umbilical artery 2"', but at its con- stricted part scarcely 4-'", the right umbilical artery everywhere about 2"'. Placenta exhibits microscopically many fat-cells and pigment-cor- puscles. No trace of blood effusions therein. There was no other pathological lesion of the foetus. The author considers that the torsion of the cord was the cause of the death of the foetus. Further remarks are made by the author on the nature and kind of effect produced by twisting on the circulation in the cord. Greaves, George.—Some observations onApnoea Neonatorum. Brit.- Med. Journ., July 5th, 12th, 1862. The author states that this is an attempt to reduce into a consistent theory the facts relating to the condition of the vital functions of the foetus during labour, and of the new-born child in the interval which occurs between birth and the full establishment of respiration. This question has not, he contends, received the attention it deserves. The subject is commenced by a reference to the state of infants apparently stillborn. Of these there are three classes :—1. The surface of the child is pale, the body is motionless, the pulsation of the funis has entirely ceased, the beating of the heart can scarcely be felt; this is syncope. 2. The external phenomena are the same, but there is still some pulsation in the cord, though it is weak and slow; this is apncea. 3. The pulsation of the cord is not necessarily slow, may be strong, the surface is rather blue than pale ; the face and neck are livid and swollen; the eyes are often widely open. This is a partially apoplectic or coma- tose condition. _ The two first classes of cases are the same in kind only differing in degree, and they depend on one cause, namely, the more or less prolonged interruption to intercommunion between the organisms of the mother and the foetus ; but in the third class of cases the condition is essentially different, there have been incomplete attempts at respiration, and the phenomena of congestive apoplexy are present 27