GANGRENE. 215 symptoms of pyaemia. Then, some days later, he had a severe epileptic seizure; and this was followed, in the same time and the same way as the rigors had been, by another suppuration. Then, after phlebitis and other mischiefs of pyaemia, he gradually recovered, and has had no cerebral dis- turbance since his recovery. A case of septicaemia fatal in twenty-seven hours (thirty-one hours after operation) is also related. Dr. G. Polli has published some researches on diseases depending on morbific fermentation and their treatment (c Dub. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxiii, p. 367). Among such diseases are classed almost all the more fatal maladies, such as typhus, puerperal fever, glanders, septicaemia. He injected into the veins of dogs putrid pus, putrid blood, and the discharge from the nose of a glandered horse, and came to the conclusion that thus very serious and well-marked forms of disease can be produced, exhibiting all the general characters of catalytic diseases (diseases caused by specific ferments in the blood). He also found that sulphurous acid, not only alone, but also in combination with earths and alkalies, possesses in a supreme degree the power of arresting all known organic fermentations and putrefactive metamorphoses of animal solids and liquids ; that these salts could be administered to dogs for lengthened periods and in large doses ; thus a dog about ;61bs. in weight took for fifteen successive days as much as ten grammes (154 grains) of these salts daily. He also made sixty-eight comparative experiments. One half of the dogs experimented on were left to the effects of the poisonous injections without any remedy being administered, the other half were treated with sulphites. The results were decidedly in favour of the latter. At the London Hospital a case of hospital phagedaena, under Mr. Hutchinson, was cured by the submersion treatment. In three days the sore was clean, and in ten healing was so rapidly advancing that the bath was no longer required. There could be no doubt that the improvement was really due to the use of the bath. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 8.) Gangrene. M. Raynaud had his attention called to a peculiar form of this disease ('Gaz. des Hop.,',; 1862, p. 285), by the case of a woman set. 27, in which all four extremities were unexpectedly attacked by dry gangrene. Further researches showed him that this affection differed in some respects from the senile form, which it in general resembles. It has a remarkable tendency to be symmetrical; thus it attacks at the same time the two lower or the two upper, or even all four, extremities—in some cases the ears or the nose. He refers it to defective innervation of the capillaries; the presence of venous blood, or, in other words, a deficient supply ot oxygen being the immediate cause. It commences insidiously, is attended by violent attacks of pain when fully developed, and generally ends by .elimination of the slough and spontaneous cicatrization. It differs from senile gangrene by its attacking symmetrical parts, by its more circumscribed nature, and by the absence of any appreciable change in the neighbouring arteries. M. Laugier (ib., pp. 230, 274) was induced by these researches to try oxygen baths in two cases of dry gangrene,