433 INORGANIC SUBSTANCES. membranes, increased secretion of urine, and improvement of the appe- tite. On augmenting the dose from a scruple on two successive days to 5ss and 5j, dissolved in each, experiment in |ij of water, a feeling of dryness and itching was experienced in the throat, with burning at the epigastrium, copious salivation, running from the nose, intense injection of the conjunctiva?, and lachrymation. Sleep was dis- turbed and unrefreshing, and in the morning the head felt hot, while the rest of the body shivered. The eyes were painfully sensitive to light, and the field of vision was obscured by disagreeable undidations, and there was ringing in the ears. The act of swallowing was painful and difficult, and there were redness and swelling of the soft palate and tonsils (partieularly the right). The general state was marked by thirst, acceleration of the pulse (104), general depression, and anorexia. From these experiments the author infers that, in the exhibition of large doses of iodide of potassium for long periods, large quantities of water ought to be taken at the same time, either along with or between the doses. This therapeutical rule receives further support from the following observation. "When the author, after a large dose of iodide of potassium, restricted to the utmost his consumption of fluids, he found that the salt could be recognised in the urine even after a lapse of forty hours. But if after the same dose an unlimited quan- tity of water were taken, it appeared that it was completely eliminated in the course of twenty-four hours, for after that period it could no longer be detected in the urine. Dr. Eosenthal's researches further show that iodine is discharged by the nasal secretion, the tears, and the cerumen of the ears. In the faeces (whether liquid or normal) discharged four to seven hours after the administration of the iodide, iodine could be detected, but not in stools passed after a lapse of sixteen or twenty-four hours. As regards the absorption of iodine by the integument, the author's experiments do not confirm the prevailing opinion that iodine is absorbed in the free state only, and that in the use of ointments containing iodide of potas- sium absorption takes place exclusively by virtue of the action of the fatty acids in decomposing the salt and liberating the iodine. For he found that after the infriction of pure white ointment of iodide of potassium on the chest and, back, the presence of iodine in the urine and saliva coidd be distinctly demonstrated for twenty-four hours. In order to determine whether or not iodide of potassium can be absorbed when applied to the skin in aqueous solution, the author took a series of baths in which quantities of iodide, varying from 5SS to ^ij were dissolved. The urine was in each experiment analysed before and after the bath, and it was invariably found that a trace of iodide could be detected during the succeeding twenty-four hours. The quan- tity was, however, so small, that its presence could only be demonstrated by concentrating the whole quantity passed during the period, after the addition of solution of caustic potash, then extracting the crystal- line residue with absolute alcohol, and redissolving the alcoholic extract in a few drops of distilled water. In the solution thus obtained iodine was distinctly recognised in seven experiments. "With reference to the absorption of iodine by the intestinal mucous membrane, it was found