RBKJBZE ON EOllENSIC MEDICINE. trace of prussiate of potash, in ■which they were allowed to remain for twenty-four hours. The mucous membranes of the mouth and palate were slightly coloured by chloride of iron, but no trace of this reaction was appreciable in the mucous membrane of the larynx, bronchial tubes, or parenchyma of the lungs. On opening the thorax the lungs were found to be collapsed, leaving the heart for the most part uncovered. They were of a bright-red colour, and exhibited no appearance either of oedema or of marginal emphysema, &c. The weight of lung, as determined in the first experiment, was 10-9 grammes, of the dry residue 2-15 grammes, which quantities give 80-4 as the per-centage of water contained in the organ. Lastly, it was inquired what effect would result from hanging the body in such a position as to favour the escape of water from the windpipe and bronchial tubes. A rabbit which had been drowned, and left eighteen hours in the water, was then hung up by the legs for eight hours. The appearances of the lungs on dissection did not differ materially from those recorded in the second series of experiments. Two other rabbits and a dog were treated in the same manner, the general result being that the per-centage by weight of water in the respiratory apparatus varied from 86-i to 88-i. In commenting on these results, the author dwells at great length on a hypothetical objection to their value, as affording a test of submersion, viz., that the increased weight of water in the lung might be accounted for by a transudation of serum, as in ordinary pulmonary oedema. He shows this to be inadmissible, on grounds which may be shortly stated as follows. According to the fifth experiment, the weight of the lungs in a drowned rabbit was 24-6grammes, of which solids constituted 2'i grammes. If it had been killed by pithing, the weight of its lungs (according to exp. 1—4) would have been 12*3 grammes, and of solids 2*5 grammes. Hence the total gain of weight was 12*3 grammes. The weight of solids being slightly diminished (from 2*5 to 2'i grammes), it is obvious that, excepting in so far as transudation of solid matter had taken place into the water in which the animal was drowned, no liquid excepting water could have been added. The author arrives at the general conclusion from his experiments, " that a proportion by weight of water to solids in the lungs that exceeds 90 per cent, affords proof that pure water lias penetrated by the larynx into the air-passages and lungs," and hence that death has been produced by submersion. The numerical results of each series of experiments are shown in the following table.*— * The second and third places of decimals have been omitted.