76 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICIN'K. sleep. The haajfifcrillg and tlie adductor muscles were more refractory to its influence than the others. GmcitiNi.—Gazz. Lorab. 5, 1862. Records a case of traumatic tetanus which was treated successfully by the subcutaneous injection of curare. The treatment commenced on the fifth day of the disease, and the patient was convalescent on the seventeenth. In all forty-seven grains of curare were injected dissolved in sixteen drachms of water. The number of injections made amounted to sixty single and thirty- two double and treble. The effect of the remedy was to cause relaxation of the muscles, especially when injected into their tissue, also copious diuresis and diaphoresis, light and refreshing sleep, keen hunger and thirst. Levick, J. J., M.D.—Remarks on Chorea, with Notices of some Allied Disorders. Amer. J. of Med. Sc., Jan. 1862. Levick states generally of all the causes of chorea, that they may be regarded as irritations affecting a highly sensitive nervous organization. Fright acts either by directly disturbing the nervous force, or by disorder- ing the various emunctories and inducing toxsemia. Admitting the influence of rheumatism in producing chorea, Levick, however, disbelieves in the constant or even frequent association of mitral disease. Other causes, which he admits are intestinal accumulations, dental irritation, toxamiia from arrest of cutaneous eruptions, or perspiration, states of exhaustion, uterine irritation, particularly pregnancy, of which he records three cases, one fatal. Among varieties of chorea he notices and gives two examples of salaam (bowing) convulsions. Treatment must be guided by the state of the system in each particular case. Tonics, anti-spasmodics, purgatives, generous diet, sedatives, especially opiate enemata, are to be used accord- ing to the indications. Fraser.—Cases of Chorea Treated by Sulphate of \Aniline. Med. T. and Gaz., March 8th. Five cases took the drug for periods varying from nine up to thirty-four days, the doses ranging from a gram to twenty-eight grains daily. None of them were at all benefited. Arsenic being given instead, rapid improve- ment took place. Danet and Widal.—J. de Med. et ile Chir. Pratiq., Dec, 1862. Record cases of very severe and prolonged hiccup, one of which was cured by zinci valerian, with extr. bellad., another by quinine, after opium, belladonna, and chloroform, had failed, and a third by Vichy water and gentian. In the last case the stomach appears to have been chronicallj inflamed. Cunningham, R. W.—Notes of a Case of Hydrophobia. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 8th. The results of post-mortem examination were, that the dura mater and the cerebral veins were congested with dark-coloured liquid blood. A large quantity of serum, containing fibrinous flakes, flowed out from the cavity