EYE. 287 being restricted to, the two optic nerves, by the suddenness and com- pleteness of the blindness, and by the absence of further cerebral symptoms. On the other hand, there were many reasons for attributing it to an obstruction of the circulation, and yet there were great difficulties in finding any cause for such obstruction; it could not be from the pressure of an intracranial tumour on the vessels, for the reasons already assigned; it could not be from embolism, for neither the causes of embolism, nor the effects produced by it were present, and besides, to affect both eyes, the embolus must have been located in the arch of the aorta, or two emboli must have been driven simultaneously forwards, one passing into each central artery of the retina. Thus the author found himself obliged to admit that the local conditions of the eyes themselves must furnish the reason for the stoppage of the arterial circulation, a stoppage so complete as to abolish the action of the retina. Considering the increasing danger, for the child had been already ten days without a trace of quantitative perception of light, and believing that the arterial anaemia of the retina was probably caused by some local condition, Dr. Graefe determined to produce mechanically congestion of the vessels by diminishing the tension of the globe. On the 19th December, he removed a large piece of the iris at the upper part on the right side, and freely evacuated the aqueous humour on the left side by paracentesis. Twenty hours later, both anterior chambers appeared to have regained their normal size; the pupils were very distinctly affected by light, and Graefe was delighted to find that she could not only readily distinguish light from darkness, but even follow the motions of a hand. On separately testing the eyes, the improvement was found to be restricted to the right eye, the one treated by iridectomy; the other eye remained in its amaurotic condition. On the following day the child was already able to count fingers at the distance of two feet; the readiness with which she found her way, and the quickness with which she fixed any object, proved that the visual field was of normal or almost normal size. As the left eye still remained in the same state, an iridectomy was performed also on it: it ran the same course as on the right side, thus she could dis- tinctly perceive light with it on the following day. Vision became better with great, and almost equal rapidity on both sides. She was discharged on the fifteenth day after the operation on the second eye; she could then count without trouble and correctly, with either eye, a number of very small spots, placed at a distance of half a millimetre from one another. The field of vision was normal. The eyes were not examined with the ophthalmoscope before the third day after the second operation, when the arteries were found quite normal in size, and the veins presented scarcely any irregularity in course or fulness. Three months later there had been no recurrence and the vision was perfectly normal. The effect of the treatment confirmed the diagnosis. Dr. Graefe com- pares this case with glaucoma, and notes that whilst in the latter, the pressure in the eye is increased, but that in the vessels is normal (hence the arterial pulsation), in the former the pressure in the eye was normal but probably diminished in the vessels ; thus possibly the impetus of the blood in the arteries was so little, that even a normal intra-ocular pressure was-sufficient to stop it. The opinion, that the pressure of the blood in