EYE. 275 care, where the surgeon, with more zeal than discretion, freely applied the nitrate of silver to the skin of both the upper and lower lids of one eye, and also around the orbit. Violent cellular inflammation and suppuration followed, not only of both the upper and lower eyelids, but also of the cellular tissue of the cheek. The child was at one time in a very preca- rious state, and although she has now recovered, yet an ectropion of the lower lid, caused by an adhesion of the integument to the malar bone, remains." Mr. Critchett has of late often prescribed arsenic in certain chronic forms of ophthalmia occurring in young persons. It is chiefly in intrac- table cases of pustular ophthalmia, which have lasted far beyond the usual period, and which are attended by intolerance of light and a feeble and irritable state of the system generally, that this remedy seems useful. In the same class, quinine and iron are often very effectual, but the arsenic not unfrequently manifests peculiar and superior powers. If desired, it may be conveniently prescribed in combination with iron. For children, the common steel wine is a very suitable vehicle. For a child, five years old, a minim of Fowler's solution in a teaspoonful of steel wine, given three times daily, is an appropriate prescription, and one under which many a case of severe pustular ophthalmia will recover with great rapidity ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, i, n). Mr. Streatfeild has introduced the use of atropine paper (' Ophth. Hosp, Rep.,' iii, 310) ; its great advantage is its portability. It is prepared by Mr. Squire, 277, Oxford Street, London. The paper has been dipped in a solution so strong that a piece of it, one fifth of an inch square, contains as much of the salt as a drop of the solution of two grains to an ounce of water. It is made up in little books with stiff covers ; each page is an inch square, with black lines dividing it into fifths both ways, thus each page contains twenty-five doses. The little piece of the paper to be used, is taken up on the tip of the forefinger, previously damped; the patient's lower lid being drawn down, and his eye directed upwards, the scrap of paper is placed on the sclerotic conjunctiva below the cornea, almost without his knowledge; the lid is then let go, and the piece of paper is left between the ocular and palpebral conjunctivse; a handker- chief is tied over the eye, for the purpose of keeping the lids closed for a time. Eyelids. Mr. T. P. Teale on the relief of symblepharon by transplantation of the conjunctiva (' Ophth. Hosp. Rep.,'hi, 253).—Mr. Teale's operation is composed of two parts ; 1, the separation of the lid from the globe, and 2, the transplantation ; in the former, any portion of the lid adhe- rent to the cornea should, not be separated ; in the latter, two flaps of conjunctiva should be made, one for the inner side of the eyelid, and the other for the globe. Mr. Teale relates four cases ; the first is as follows : April, i860, Joseph Jessop, set. 40, a " puddler" at an iron foundry. Twelve months ago he was struck in the right eye by a hot cinder, whicli has given rise to a symblepharon. The middle portion of the lower eye- lid for the breadth of one third of an inch is adherent to the eyeball, the skin of the lid being blended with the surface of the cornea to such an