83 NERVOUS SYSTEM. valescence. The latter he believes to depend on an alteration in the crasis of the blood, which often occurs after mild cases as well as after severe. Leudet believes tbat there are no morbid alterations in the brain or cord, at least in his cases he could find no trace of them. Treatment must be tonic. Two fatal cases with autopsies are recorded. Mesnet.—Case of Cerebral Tumour with Lateral Deviation in Walking. Gaz. des Hopit. 37, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115. p. 173. A male, aet. 42, suffered with severe head pain, exacerbated at intervals, and concentrating itself then in the right half of the forehead. There was some paresis of the whole left side. The psychical actions were dull, the temper melancholy. In walking, the patient had an irresistible impulse to deviate to the right. Several epileptic attacks occurred, followed by coma and death. The brain and its membranes were normal, but in the right anterior and middle lobes there was a tumour of the size of a billiard ball, hard, creaking under the knife, and glistening. Colin.—L'Union, 37, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 173. Kecords a case of spinal hemiplegia, with considerable increase of tem- perature on the paralysed side. Death occurred suddenly, and there was found in the right anterior column of the cord a spot of softening of the size of a filbert, containing a small, soft, apparently recent, blood-clot. The left hand was from 130 to 210 F. warmer than the right. The right arm was completely, the right leg partially, paralysed. Dechambre, Nicolas.—On the Sleep-disease. Gaz. hebdom. viii., 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 174. Hie disease seems to be peculiar to negroes, and is met with chiefly in Congo on the African coast.' The prominent symptom is a great tendency to sleep, which becomes more continuous, and ends at last in death. The intelligence is enfeebled and slow, but persists till the close. In prolonged cases there is emaciation and diarrhoea. There is no fever and no paralysis of motion or sensation. Treatment has proved quite fruitless, the disease always terminating fatally. Autopsies have shown no definite morbid alteration. Lobb.—On Galvanism as a Therapeutic Agent. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc. Aug. 1862. Lobb treats cases of rheumatic paralysis by exciting the skin, first with a sharp current, using a dry, flat, metallic conductor, and an 120-element galvanic battery with a wet sponge at the positive pole. The dry conductor is afterwards exchanged for a moist one, and each muscle stimulated to contraction. The current, he says, restores the circulation in the part, causing warmth and redness where there had previously been pallor and cold; the muscles also, which were stiff and hard after contraction, become soft and elastic to the touch. The proceeding in paralysis attended with atrophy is to have a continuous current from a chain passed steadily throngl the part for a long time, which increases the circulation in the part and stimulates nutrition. At intervals an interrupted current is passed to excite the returning contractility. In neuralgia depending on primary