REPORT ON TOXICOLOfSY AND MATERIA UEDICA. 114- the intense depression of the second stage was accompanied towards the close by spasm and delirium. The pupil was not, as usual, insensible to light, and the sensibility of the skin was comparatively unaffected, A healthy man, set. 24, who had been seen apparently well half an hour before, was found unconscious in his room. He was immediately bled by a neighbouring practitioner, who mistook the case for apoplexy. Next day, on admission into the hospital, he was still unconscious, and could not be roused; the surface was warm, moist, and pale; the lips, tips of the fingers and toes, bluish; the pulse frequent; the respiration sighing, slow, and irregular; the eyeballs everted, the pupils contracted and sluggish. There were occasionally carpopedal spasms, and urine was passed unconsciously. The further progress of the case was as follows : Third day.—Slight remission of most of the symptoms ; the patient could walk a few steps, and, when roused by questions, asked in a loud voice, answered slowly, but often correctly; immediately afterwards he fell back into the previous state of somnolency. Fourth day.—In the night the stupor increased, but again remitted towards morning. On auscultation, the breath-sound was found to be accompanied universally with loud, mucous rales. ]NTo impairment of sensibility, paralysis, or spasm. Anorexia, thirst, retention of urine; 2190 cubic centimetres of urine were withdrawn by the catheter in twenty-four hours, and were found to contain no morphia. Towards evening the patient became perfectly insensible ; the cyanosis increased ; the breathing became irre- gular, difficult, and frequent; the moist rales louder and more intense, so that they could be felt over the greater part of the chest; pulse 100, intermittent, and small; there were occasional spasms of the lower limbs. Fifth day.—In the morning the patient again improved, but towards afternoon relapsed, and became furiously delirious ; at night conscious- ness partially returned, and he complained only of pain in the chest and dyspnoea. After a few hours of natural sleep he woke (sixth day) completely sensible ; and although there was again a partial relapse towards evening, all the symptoms rapidly disappeared, and on the fifteenth day he was convalescent, and soon after left the hospital, the only symptoms of which he complained being referable to the intense bronchial catarrh from which he had suffered. The poison had been taken in the form of laudanum, but the quantity could not be ascer- tained. Lee.—On tie Antagonistic Effects of Opium and the Mydriatics. (American Journ. of Med. Sc.) Pharmac, vol. iv, p. 80. Dr. Lee relates two cases in which opium and belladonna respectively were severally used as antidotes against each other. In the first case one drachm of a concentrated extract of belladonna, intended for external use, was given by mistake to a child of six years. The usual symptoms of the toxical action of the drug rapidly ensued, and, in the absence of any means of evacuating the stomach, twenty drops of laudanum were imme- diately given by the mouth, and the same quantity by the rectum. The dose by the mouth was repeated every half hour, until 120 drops had been given. After the third dose the pupils began to coutract strongly, the purple flush of the face passed off, and in three hours the child was