306 REPORT ON SURGERY. observed a cystosarcoma in this part. Among the malignant tumours we have cases of medullary carcinoma, and not unfrequently in the form of melanosis; such cancer often proceeds from the subserous, as well as the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and also from the lymphatic glands in the inguinal region : it occasionally occurs in the form of an infil- tration, especially in the subserous tissue, and as a secondary product. According to some authors, hydatid cysts occur in the abdominal wall, a circumstance which is at all events very rare, for as yet we have met with no decided case. Dr. M. B. Freund, account of an extraordinary case of abscess in the sheath of the rectus, with an essay on abscess of the abdominal walls (Betschler and Freund, • Clinical Contributions to Gynaecology,' ist part, p. 140, Breslau, 1862): Prof. Billroth, cases of abscess in the subperi- toneal cellular tissue of the groin (' Beob. iiber Wundf.,' p. 65). Dr. Toca, case of enterotomy for the removal of an intestinal calculus, which weighed twenty-one ounces—death nine days after the operation (' Siglio med. and Med.-Chir. Runds.,' 1862, ii, 39). Abscess in the Iliac Fossa. M. Colin has recorded several cases ; some of which were situated in the subperitoneal cellular tissue, some under the fascia. The charac- teristic symptoms in the latter or sub-aponeurotic variety, which generally passes by the name of psoas abscess, are:—the absence of any anterior projection (which is so marked in subperitoneal phlegmon); the flattened form of the deep engorgement in the iliac region ; the symptoms fur- nished by the position of the thigh, which is flexed and turned inwards, whilst its extension, abduction and rotation outwards are impossible ; the pains in the loin and thigh along the crural neyve. Other symptoms are pain in the iliac fossa on deep pressure ; violent pain in the" lumbar region on the slightest motion of the thigh j oedema of the ankle; slight jaundice; constipation; loss of appetite; headache; sleeplessness; hot skin ; dry tongue ; rapid pulse; rigors ; sudamina; and ultimately a general typhoid appearance. In one case (* Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1861, p. 606) the abscess was opened with the bistoury above the crest of the ilium, just to the outer side of the sacro-lumbalis muscle ; the recovery was perfect. A second case of psoas abscess was the following (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 261) :—A soldier, of a moderately good constitution, and whose health had always been good, felt a sharp pain in the lumbar region, during a sudden movement in gymnastics on the 10th of January; he was, how- ever, able to return on foot to the barracks. On the next and following days, he performed his ordinary duty, feeling nothing in the aflected parts but a va<>ue sensation of uneasiness, accompanied occasionally with darting pains.'until on the 19th of the same month, having just returned from a parade, he was suddenly seized with pain so severe, that his comrades were obliged to undress him and put him to bed: the punwas, from this time, so much aggravated by the slightest movement of the tight lower limb, that the patient was obliged to remain in a state ot almost absolute immobility. At the same time some signs of gastric de- rangement, headache, los* of appetite, and constipation appeared. Un