STONE. 311 is, in my opinion, justified in proceeding to explore the abdomen. _ Should a band or bridle be found, some caution must be observed in its treat- ment. It should be divided ; but, in case it unites two portions of a hollow viscus, there is a probability of its being tubular; consequently, the two ends should be twisted or tied, to ensure their not allowing the escape of the visceral contents." Artificial anus in internal obstruction : A man of fifty-five was admitted under M. Nelaton with well marked symptoms of internal strangulation. The obstruction had existed for six days. M. Nelaton decided on making an artificial anus, an operation which he has performed six times : the first time successfully in a young man on the eleventh day of strangula- tion ; the second and third patients died ; the fourth, again a young man, recovered ; the fifth died ; the sixth, the wife of a medical man, reco- vered, although the operation was performed 'in extremis. In all three cases of recovery, the strangulation disappeared after some ten days, and the artificial anus closed. The operation consists of an incision parallel to, and about a centi- metre above, Poupart's ligament on the right side ; it commences at a distance of two centimetres from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and reaches to within one centimetre of the middle of the crural arch, so as to avoid the epigastric. The abdominal wall is divided, layer by layer; and, when the intestine protrudes, it is firmly fixed to the lips of the wound by ten or twelve points of suture : an incision is then made into the bowel. The present case died within twenty-four hours; the post-mortem ex- amination showed that the obstruction was caused by a band. It should be mentioned, that this patient was almost in a dying condition, and that the operation was only performed as a last resource (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 273). A similar plan of treatment has been followed by Dr. Tiingel ('Arch. f. klin. Chir.,' i, 334) and Professor Wachsmuth ('Arch. f. path. Anat.,' xxiii, 118). Mr. Hinton on intestinal obstruction ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1861, ii, 660) : Dr. Smith, intussusception in children (' Amer. Journ.' and 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 291): Professor Gruber, on hernia interna meso- gastrica ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeits.,' ii, 161): Dr. Erichsen, some rare cases (ibid., 305) : Dr. Duchek on the true, intestinal diverticulum (' Woch. d. Zeits. d. k. k. Ges.,' 1862, p. 313) : Dr. Roth on entero- stenosis ('Wurzb. Zeits.,' iii, 113). Stone in the Bladder. Mr. H. Thompson has traced at length the treatment of this affection ; our space will only allow us to extract his account of the causes of death after lithotomy, and his final deductions ('Lettsomian Lectures on Sur- gery,' Lancet, 1862, i, 167, &c). " Causes of death in adults.—The first, and beyond all doubt, the most frequent, cause of death in the adult, is acute inflammation of the tissues, especially of the loose cellular tissue, around the neck, base, and sides of the bladder. This inflammatory action maybe caused by mechanical violence, by urinary infiltration, by want of reparative power in the patient, by erysipelas.