REPORT OX PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 10! CIRCULATOKY SYSTEM. Bell, Jos., M.D.—Practical Remarks on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Rheumatic Pericarditis and Endocarditis. (Glasgow Med. J., April, 1862. Boll contends for the diagnostic value of friction-sound, though un- attended with the vital or general symptoms of pericarditis. It indicates certainly an exudation. Friction-sound of the rubbing variety may alone be heard, but is usually succeeded by creaking sound. The former he thinks depends only on a congested state of the vessels of the pericardium, while the latter is produced by exuded fibrine. Exudations, he believes, may entirely disappear, so that no post-mortem appearances of disease may be discovered in patients who have had friction-sound during the course of rheumatic fever. The same view he holds to apply to endocarditis and alterations of the valves. The deposits occurring in this situation in rheumatic fever he believes to result from a true inflammatory process, and if they did not and were mere deposits they would excite inflammation. Kinkes, W. S., M.D.—Med. T. & Gaz., Oct. 25th, Nov. 1st. Records a case of pyaamia from injury to the knee, in which, besides abundant secondary formations found in the lungs, there was general pericarditis, with numerous yellowish deposits in the substance of the heart. He believes that the softening and rupture of some of these had set up the serous inflammation. The valves were healthy. The changes found in the muscular texture of the heart seem not to be the result of mere inflammation, but to result from secondary deposits of the same nature as those found in the lungs and various other parts. The diagnosis of this land of disease from rheumatic pericarditis, which may easily be mistaken for it, turns on the history of a prior injury, the more fixed character of the pain, its affecting rather the bones and fleshy parts than the joints, the greater severity of the febrile symptoms, the occurrence of rigor, the greater amount of nervous disorder, the absence of the characteristic odour of rheumatism, and the presence of an eruption of small pustules on the face, limbs, and trunk. Hie treatment must be tonic, stimulating, opiate, and nutritious. Leudet, E.—On Secondary Pericarditis. Arch. Gener. xx, July, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 178. Leudet observed idiopathic pericarditis only seven, secondary (acute) thirty-six times. Old pericarditis was found in fifty-eight out of 1003 autopsies, the adhesions in thirty-three cases being partial and in twenty- five complete. In autopsies pericarditis was found (recent) coexisting most frequently with heart-disease (twelve times), with phthisis (eigW times), with pneumonia (six times). Clinical observation shows, however, that it occurs most often in acute rheumatism, viz., twenty-one times in eighty-six cases. In the thirty-six acute cases the disease was latent twenty times, thirteen times in eighteen cases the disease was dry, and eleven times in as many of the exudative form.