REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 'M'l'ly to the former class of cases; the treatment of the latter he admits should be different. In one instance he gives, ten ounces of brandy, be- sides chloric ether and sal volatile, with three grains of opium, two pints of beef-tea, and two eggs, were administered daily to a girl a?t. 14, without the least alcoholic or narcotic intoxication. He argues that it is impossible that the treatment was merely negative, doing neither good nor harm, but that it was evidently essential to the successful result. On the other hand, he insists strongly, that alcohol is not to be given indiscriminately, and that the amount must be proportioned to the degree of prostration. Dickinson, W., M.D., Cantab.—On the Treatment of Acute Rheumatism, considered with regard to the Liability to Affections of the Heart under Different Remedies. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlv. In eight cases where venesection was early resorted to there was endo- or pericarditis in three, and in one it was doubtful, so that only half the cases certainly remained free. The patients were in hospital for forty-one days on an average. Treatment by calomel and opium alone, or with saline draughts with or without nitre, seemed to have much the same effect. Out of twenty-four cases, there were six of inflammation of the heart or its membranes ; and of these two proved speedily fatal. The average stay in hospital was thirty-seven days. Of twenty-one cases treated by opium in frequent doses, fourteen had heart-affection. Of seventy-four cases treated with nitre alone, seven had cardiac complication. The average stay in hospital of seven cases was twenty-seven days. Under saline treatment (less than giij of vegetable salts in the day) the heart was affected in sixty- two cases in the proportion of 1 in 3-6. With partial alkaline treatment (SHJ-Siv of the salts) no diminution of the heart-symptoms was observed, but the disorder terminated in rather a shorter time. With full alkaline treatment (Jss to gjss of the salts daily) forty-eight cases passed through the disease with only a single instance of any cardiac affection. This appeared within twenty-four hours of the conimencement of the treatment, and was not permanent. The average stay in hospital was twenty-five days, when colchicum was added, it was thirty. Chambers, T. K.—Lancet, Aug. 23rd. Advocates the alkaline treatment of acute rheumatism with Pot. Iod. in periosteal affection and opium to allay pain. Alkaline fomentations are applied to the affected parts, and leeches when the morbid action remains fixed in one situation, or when the heart is attacked. Great stress is laid on the patients being constantly wrapped in blankets, and the surface never being allowed to get chilled. Chambers finds that alkaline treatment shortens and alleviates the disease in the great majority of cases. It fails, however, in gonorrheal rheumatism, and in irritative gouty disorder, and in cases where the periosteum and perichondrium are affected. During con- valescence much caution in returning to the use of animal food is requisite. Bouchut, H.—On the Treatment of Acute Rheumatism by Veratrine. J. de Med. et de Chir. pratiq. Edin. Med. J., Aug., 1862. Bouchut gives to a child, ajt, 12, one-tenth of a grain of veratna, and