166 KW'OltT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINK. Wbuthbim, G.—On Sycosis. Wien. Ztschr., xviii, 1861. Scl.nudt's Jahrb., vol 115, p. 184. Wertheim ascribes tlie peculiarities of sycosis to the circumstance, that in the parts of the skin which it affects the hair is thicker in proportion to the diameter of the follicle than in the scalp. Pus, which is formed by the inflammation of the follicle, cannot therefore escape so easily. He recom- mends removal of the hairs. Gull.—Med. T. and Gaz. Sept. 13th. Records a case of favus affecting almost the entire body, and one of the nails. The disease had lasted fourteen years. Two years ago he was apparently quite cured. The lad was stinted in growth, a?t. 20, pale and cachectic, but free from any special constitutional disease. Under good diet, removal of the crests, application of calomel ointment, and the internal use of syr. ferri. iod. in ol. morrh., he got quite well. Guntner.—Furunculoid and Carbunculoid Inflammation in the Face. GEsterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., viii, i, i86z. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 42. Giintner has met with five cases in his experience, of which three ended fatally, and two recovered. In all the disease commenced in the upper lip. He looks upon the situation of the disease as of essential moment, believing that the short, stiff, connective tissue of the hps, the nose, or the septum nar. specially favours the early occurrence of thrombosis of the larger veins, which is the first step to the ensuing phlebitis. Three of the five were males, two females. In all, taking cold while perspiring appeared to be the exciting cause of the disease, which sets in with rigors, followed by fever. It attains its maximum about the tenth day, and death occurs between the fourteenth and sixteenth. The phenomena are those of carbuncle, with more or less extensive diffuse inflammation, occupying the whole of the face, temples, and submaxillary region. In favourable cases the fever remits, the cedematous swelling subsides, the tumour becomes more circumscribed, and either suppurates freely, or undergoes resolution, iu the course of three to four weeks. In bad cases the swelling extends over the whole head and neck, the conjunctiva? become chemosed, the fever more intense, consciousness is suddenly lost, the patient becomes restless and delirious, the pupils dilated and insensible ; gradually general relaxa- tion ensues, sopor, and death. In the only autopsy that was made, serous effusion was found in the pia mater and in the ventricles, the brain was congested, the superficial veins near the left lower jaw were obstructed by firm coagula, the lungs cedematous, and some deposits of the size of a nut in the left. Giintner recommends, in order to procure early resolu- tion, copious inunction with mercurial ointment, scarifications of the whole infiltrated part, leeches in the vicinity, purgatives, and especially the constant application of warm fomentations. Giintner assents to the view, that in fatal cases the cause of death is pyemia and phlebitis, propagated along the ophthalmic vein to the cavernous and other cerebral sinuses.