473 SUDDEN AND VIOLENT DEATHS. lung, considering it probable that the increase of this per-centage in the bodies of drowned persons, in combination with the signs of drowning already recognised, would afford a certain criterion. For the purpose of working out this idea, the author undertook a series of experiments on rabbits and dogs, of which the following is a summary. To determine the normal per-centage of water in the lungs, three rabbits and one dog were killed by pithing, and dissected after twenty- four hours. In each case the lungs were collapsed, and were of a bright- red colour. They were then removed from the thorax, along with the larynx, trachea, heart, and great vessels, and placed in a shallow porcelain capsule ; the vascular connections between the heart and lungs were secured by double ligatures, after which the heart was removed, with the great vessels and pericardium. The lungs and windpipe were then weighed in the capsule, after which the organs were divided into portions, and submitted to evaporation at a temperature a little above boiling, which could be best effected over the chloride of calcium bath. It having been carefully ascertained that there was no further loss of weight by evaporation, the dry residue was again weighed. The results of these experiments are shown in the first four lines of the table. It was found that of the whole weight of the lungs (in rabbits), 79*6 per cent, was water and 2o-4 solids. In the dogs the water amounted to 80*7 per cent., the solids to 19*3. This being ascertained, the investigation was repeated on animals which had been drowned, in the following manner:—A full-grown rabbit, weighing 2040 grammes, was completely submerged in water which con- tained -i per cent, of ferrocyauide of potassium. After about a minute the animal became relaxed [and motionless, with the exception that at intervals respiratory efforts were made, which ceased in three and a half minutes after submersion, but feeble pulsations of the heart were felt for another minute. The body was left in the water for twenty-four hours. The lungs were voluminous, filled the whole thoracic cavity, and almost concealed the heart. Their margins were rounded, and they felt doughy or spongy. They were of a dark-red colour laterally and posteriorly, but here and there exhibited the appearance of emphysema. The right side of the heart was distended with dark, slightly coagulated blood, the left nearly empty. The internal surface of the left ventricle and all the mucous membranes were coloured blue by chloride of iron, but no reaction could be observed in the right ventricle. The lungs were then treated in the same manner as in the previous experiments, with the exception that the windpipe was ligatured to prevent the escape of water. After the first weighing they were dissected in the capsule. The bronchial tubes were filled to their smallest ramifications with a white, frothy mass, and the paren- chyma exuded on section a quantity of foamy serum. After evaporation the dry residue was found to weigh 2-07 grammes, the original weight of the lungs being 24*6 grammes. Hence, of the whole weight, 91-6 per cent, was water, and 8-4 per cent, solids. In the three other rabbits the results were similar, as shown in the table. The next question was that of the effect of immersion, practised after death by other means. This was illus- trated by experiments on three rabbits and a dog, which were pithed, andt hen, fifteen minutes after death, placed in water, also containing a