393 DISEASES OF WOMEN. Mr. Clay had provided for dividing adhesions, and ho separated the wounded portion by the actual cautery. The piece removed was nine inches long and seven wide. A clamp was used to secure the pedicle, silver sutures to close the wound. A tablespoonful of champagne was given every hour, and ice to suck. Injections of beef tea, brandy, and laudanum, every four hours ; catheter used every four hours. No solid food for four days. She recovered without a bad symptom. Clat, John.—Adhesion Clam, a new instrument for aiding the removal of Ovarian Tumours. Med. Times and Graz., June 21st, 1862. This instrument is devised for the purpose of more readily separating the adhesions encountered in ovariotomy operations. It consists of two blades, the one fitting on the other, and tightly grasping the part to be divided. A cauterizing iron forms part of the apparatus ; this latter is used hot or cold; when cold, it cuts through the membrane to be divided by a bruising process like that of the ecraseur, without pro- ducing tension of the parts. On being heated it divides the parts in another manner. One great feature in the use of the instrument is the great compression which can be used previously to the division of the stricture, and this, with the use of the cautery or the friction in- strument, is sufficient to prevent haemorrhage. In a case operated on (see Dewes, Dr., p. 392), the number of bleeding vessels in the torn omentum, and the extent of the injury would have necessitated the use of three ligatures to the omentum en masse to have arrested the haemorrhage. DISEASES OF VAGINA, BLADDER, AND EXTERNAL GENERATIVE ORGANS. M'Cltntock, Dr.—Tumours of the Labia, Clitoris, and Vagina. Dub. Quart., Feb., 1862, p. 209. Drawings and concise histories are given of a series of cases of tumours of the labia, clitoris, and vagina. There are four cases of non- malignant disease, two of malignant disease, and four cases of tumour growing from the vagina. Meigs, Prof.— Inversion of the Hairs of the Labia Pudendi. Amer. Journ. Med. Sc., April, 1862, p. 328. In two cases related distressing and obstinate pruritus was associated with the growth of stiff, long hairs at the margins of the labia. Era- dication of these was followed by a cure. Brown, I. Baker.—On Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Lancet, April 19th and 26th, 1862. Se.ven cases are here related. In one there was recto- and vesico- vaginal fistula, and a novel operation was performed. The vaginal aperture was closed, and the urine, catamenial fluid, and fajees, allowed to pass per rectum. This was almost completely effected after great difficulty, owing to the resistance of the patient aiid her object ion to be relieved.