BEPOBT ON MIDWU'EIIY, ETC. 418 The consequences produced by interruption to the placental action on the foetuB are two, the foetus is deprived of food and also of air. The effects of the deprivation of the latter only it is necessary to consider. This suspension of the breathing function of the placenta may be effected:—r. By the blood of the mother not being sufficiently arte- rialised. 2. By great loss of blood or other cause producing syncope in mother, whereby the quantity of blood sent to the placenta is mate- rially diminished. 3. By interruption to the circulation through the umbilical cord. This most frequently occurs during labour; but it may occur prior to this and from other causes : knotting of the cord, or knotting round a limb, or round the neck; extensive oedema of the cord; twisting of the cord on itself; these causes also may produce the effect alluded to. 4. There is a class of cases in which there is interruption to the breathing function of the placenta owing to contrac- tions of the uterus during labour. This is intermittent in its action, and does not usually go beyond a lowering of the vital activity, and a weakening and retardation of the pulse of the foetus while the cause is in operation. This class of cases the author wishes to direct special attention to. He states that it has been found by many observers that there is during labour a retardation of the foetal pulse, and he substan- tiates this by reference to the woi*ks of Hamilton, Kennedy, Moir, and Sidey. The diminution of the frequency of the foetal pulse during the pains of labour, to the extent of a third or even of one half, may, he presumes, be accepted as an ascertained fact. What is the cause of this retardation ? " It will be at once admitted that it is a cause which, operating with more than ordinary force, must be the chief agent in pro- ducing still-birth." It has been the custom to ascribe the still-birth, when not manifestly dependent on immaturity or disease of the foetus, to pressure of the uterus on the foetus. It has been assumed that this pressure is exercised on the chest or head; it is difficult to conceive, however, how this can be the case. Compression of the placenta be- tween the body of the child and the placenta has also been set down as a cause. This may be the case, but only as subsidiary to one which is, the author believes, the main agent in producing the effect in question, viz., the obstruction by the contraction of the uterine fibres of the flow of blood through the ultimate ramifications of the uterine blood-vessels, the " curling arteries." The temporary stoppage of the circulation in the vessels here alluded to has not been spoken of by any previous writer. The blood in the foetal vessels cannot be duly aerated if the blood sent to the placenta be greatly diminished, and as a consequence of this it stagnates. The foetal heart beats more and more weakly, and less frequently, and finally ceases unless the obstruction to the pla- cental circulation be removed. The heart of the fcetus ceases to act from over distension. In the early stage of labour the pains occur with long intervals, there is consequently ample time for the placenta to recover itself; if the labour be very rapid, and intervals of rest be not afforded, the child is born apparently or really inanimate. In a more advanced stage of labour, when the liquor amnii is discharged another cause comes into operation, the placenta becomes actually partly detached, and the connection between the placenta and the uterine