MATERIA CHIRURGICA AND MEDICAL TREATMENT. 179 than it commonly does, such as the use of general or large local baths, the value of which, especially after lithotomy and other perineal and pelvic operations, cannot be overstated; and of the frequent change, not only of dressings, if there be any, and of bed-linen, but of beds; and, during convalescence, the change of rooms or of one part of a ward for anotber. As to general treatment, the best plan is to let the patients be as nearly as possible in the ordinary mode of prudent life, to give no medicine of which the need is not expressly indicated, to observe all rules of personal cleanliness, to provide abundant fresb air, and a sufficient or a liberal mixed diet. " I believe, then, that in our retrospect of the management of patients after surgical operations, we may congratulate ourselves on the increasing simplicity of our practice, founded on the wider recognition of the suffi- ciency of the natural processes of recovery. And herein surgery may be said to have made a good contribution to that more accurate study of the natural history of disease which is becoming the most pressing want of our time. What will happen if this or that injury or disease be left to itself, or only so managed as the patient's comfort may suggest 1 The question has been often asked, but rarely answered; yet it must be answered before we can accurately study the value of any medical or surgical remedy. It is the question in therapeutics that should most occupy our minds; for until we have made our standards of what the progress of disease is if left alone, we cannot judge of our power of controlling or of re- medying it." Dr. Druitt recommends ('Trans, of Obst. Soc. of London,' hi, 143) a liquid essence of beef, as an auxiliary to, and partial substitute for, brandy in all cases of great exhaustion or weakness, attended with cerebral depression or despondency. It is free from anything that loads the stomach, and appears to exert a rapid and remarkable stimulating power over the brain. It is prepared by chopping up lean beef, enclosing it in a jar, and subjecting it for an hour or more to heat. The liquid essence is strained off from the fibre, and the fat separated by means of blotting paper. Mr. Cooper recommends cacao butter as a basis for ointments and sup- positories ('Lancet,' 1862, i, 683). Dr. Ebermann (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeits.,' ii, p. 84) reports favorably on the long-continued immersion of ulcers, thecal inflammations, &c, in warm water. The temperature should be decided by the patient; the maximum time during which this treatmentwas continued was thirty-eight, and the minimum five, days. It generally relieved pain, and induced a more abundant but at the same time more healthy suppuration. Broca (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1862, p. 76) confirms the statement of Blandin, that the spinal canal is occasionally opened by sloughs on the sacrum, thus facilitating the extension of the inflammation to the spinal meninges. In a case of death after amputation, no affection of the stump could be found, but an examination of a slough on the sacrum showed phlebitis of the sacral veins and inflammation extending to the spinal canal. Mr. Hilton reports a similar case ('Lancet,' 1862, ii, 2), and states that he has several tunes seen fatal mischief result from a bed-sore extending to the interior of the vertebral canal. Dr. J. Bell ('Glasg. Med. Journ.,' 1862, x, p. 166) recommends as the most rapid plan of producing mercurialization a mercurial sup-