REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. respecting the changes of the voice in various states, for which we have no space. GuTSCH, A.—On Mental Disturbances in Solitary Confinement. Allg. Ztschr. f. Psychiatr., xix, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 336. Gutsch's observations were made at Brucksal, and extend over twelve years. During this time there were eighty-four cases of insanity (3-15 per cent.), and nine cases of suicide. Only one of the latter had previously shown marked symptoms of mental disease. Gutsch thinks it certain that solitary confinement increases the liability of criminals to mental disease. Those of limited faculties are most prone to suffer, while mental culture and education during the term of imprisonment seem to act protectingly. The injurious effect is most apparent during the first year, and diminishes sub- sequently. In most cases an individual predisposition could be made out, or other causes of the insanity beside the isolation. The majority of the cases were favourable ones, more than half were slight, and the recoveries amounted to 70 per cent. One remarkable peculiarity was, that the in- sanity often commenced with hallucinations of hearing, or some single delu- sive idea; of fifty-eight cases of this laud, twenty-nine were cured solely by removal from solitude. Gutsch does not consider that the disadvantages of solitary confinement outweigh its beneficial effects. Cook, G., M.D.—The Relations of Inebriety to Insanity. Amer. J. of Insanity, April, 1862. Med. Critic, Oct. Cook states his opinion that intemperance is entitled to the same place among the symptoms of insanity as any other human appetite or action; that when associated with other symptoms of cerebral disorder it may, and often does, indicate insanity ; that when unaccompanied by such symptoms, it ought not to be regarded as a symptom even—much less should it be considered as forming a specific type—of mental disease. He objects to the term " dipsomania" as incorrect and productive of evil consequences, and regards the craving for alcohol as no more an evidence of insanity than the oriental passion for opium or Haschish. In all these cases the influence of habit is not sufficiently considered. Report respecting Insanity in Holland during the Tears 1857—1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 237. A short abstract only is given of the report, which appears to contain much important matter. In several asylums it was found that the non- restraint system could not be carried out completely, and that it was neces- sary to have recourse to other means. Of a total of 550 (363 M. -f 187 F.) it is reported that 240 died in the asylums, 77 were sent out uncured, and 233 cured. Schroder v. der Kolk recommends very careful examination of the cortical part of the brain, noting whether there is any morbid adhesion of the pia mater, or reddening. He has come to the conclusion that inflammation of the grey matter of the anterior cerebral lobes is attended with mental confusion, mania, dementia, while a similar state of the superior and occipital convolutions induces rather emotional disorder, the insanity assuming the form of melancholy, self-accusation, fear of poisoning, &c.