482 ItEPOKT ON EOltENSIC MEDICINE. impossible to conceive of the will being otherwise than free, without the destruction of its very essence. The idea of freedom, and consequently of responsibility, attaches itself not to the mental state, but to the action, and belongs, not to the province of the psychologist, whose business it is to determine the normality of the psychical condition of the individual, but to that of the jurist, who judges of the action without relation to the mental stateof the agent. The domain of psychology being thus limited, the author proceeds to show that irresponsible action always results from loss or impairment of consciousness of the motives whereby the action is go- verned. Whenever the conception of the motive possessed by the agent, at the moment that the action is perpetrated, can be shown to be imper- fect, responsibility is no longer possible, for he is incapable of completing the mental process by which the impulses to action are determined and controlled. In the term "motive "the author includes, not merely the purpose or intention of the action, but everything which tends to prompt, modify, or restrain it. Thus, any imperfection in the conception enjoyed by the agent, either of his own individuality or that of the object, or any deficiency in his comprehension of the results of his action, is regarded as a defect of " consciousness of motive " (Motivbewusstseiii), and as rendering the agent incapable of responsible action. Thomson.—Statistics of Prisoners ; cases of Homicidal Mania. Edin. Med. Journ, No. 84, p. 1109. In all cases of homicidal mania resulting in homicide in Scotland, the accused is committed for custody to the lunatic department of the General Prison. This paper is founded on the cases of 24 such prisoners admitted since October 1846. Of the whole number, 16 were males, 8 females; 2 have been liberated (the insane act having been committed, in one instance, during an attack of puerperal mania, in the other of delirium tremens), and 8 have died, in none of whom any cerebral lesion was detected after death; 14 remain, and are now in good health. It is notable that the social position of these prisoners is superior to the average; none of them belong to the criminal or dangerous classes of society. All of them acted without accomplices and in no instance was any attempt made to deny or conceal the act. Two of them had killed several persons at a time-, and several of them, in addition to the fatal act which led to their confinement, had attempted the lives of others; 5 had also attempted suicide. Out of 27 victims, 18 were nearly connected by consanguinity with their murderers. Of the 24 cases, 8 were of homicidal monomania (sudden impulse to destroy life, without any obvious symptoms of insanity), and show " that the homicidal act may be committed under a transitory fit of monomania, the actor being apparently of sound mind before and soon after the act." The following is a summary of the most important cases :—A. M'P—, aged 26, an agricultural labourer, was accused of murdering his father, mother, and aunt, in one night. With no previous premonitory symptoms, he became subject to the delusion that he was the brother of the Saviour, and bad a divine commission to destroy all in the island (one of the Hebrides.) Under this delusion, he first lay in wait for the priest (he had before been a devout papist), then for one o"f his brothers, and finally rose