ALKALOIDS. 443 period, the motor nerves are not themselves eventually paralysed, and whether (if this be the case) the trunks of the nerves or the fibres of distribution are first or principally affected. They consisted, for the most part, in observing the latest modification of motility produced by aconitine in frogs. It was clearly shown that, a quarter of an hour after the complete extinction of voluntary movement, the nerve-trunks could no longer be excited by the stimulus of electricity. In frogs in which the administration of the alkaloid had been preceded by deligation of the femoral artery on one side, it was further observed that, even after the lapse of two and a half hours, that part of the sciatic nerve which was beyond the ligature still retained its irritability. On the other hand, that portion of the nerve to which the circulating blood still had access was found to be entirely paralysed in an hour, but retained its irrita- bility for a much longer period than the peripheral nerve3 of the opposite limb. It thus appeared that the poison exercises its action first on the peripheral fibres and subsequently on the nerve-trunks, in the same manner as has been shown to be the case with curare. This is attributed by the authors primarily to the anatomical fact that, in the primitive fibrils of the ultimate branches of the nerves, the axis- cylinder is not protected by any investment, whereas in the trunks eack fibril consists of a tube in which the axis-cylinder is enclosed, which structiu*e is further withdrawn from the influence of the circulating blood by the neurilemma. They also regard the greater vascularity of the extremities of the nerves as being conducive to the result. Pbatt ; Vacuell.—Case of Poisoning by Aconite. Brit. Med. Journ., December 1,3th. A male adult (age not stated) is said to have taken two pills, con- taining not more than four grains of extract of aconite, dispensed by mistake instead of extract of wormwood. Four hours afterwards he was found by Mr. Pratt in the following condition:—he lay on his back, with his thighs drawn up and his arms in constant jactitation. On seeing the doctor he jumped up from his bed, and complained of pains in the legs, and alternating sensations of cold and heat in the tongue. His countenance was expressive of great agony, and he said he was very ill. Death took place shortly after Mr. Pratt's arrival; it was preceded by failure of the pulse, gasping respiration, and dilated, insensible pupils. A few minutes before he died he was able to ask for a glass of cold water, and drink it without assistance. The body was examined by Dr. VachelL The only post-mortem appearance was that of exces- sive congestion of the mucous membrane of the stomach, duodenum, and part of the jejunum. The stomach was nearly empty, containing only-a small quantity of bloody fluid. Morphine. Dl'CiiEK— On a case of poisoning l\j Opium. Wien. "Wochnbl., vol. xvii No. 43. Schmidt, vol. 113, p. 165. ' The peculiarity of this case lay in its progress and duration. While in general, the symptoms of poisoning by opium do not last more than forty-eight - hours, here they continued for five days. The excitement which is usually associated with the first stage was entirely absent, and