FEVER ACCOMPANYING SURGICAL AFFECTIONS. 199 the wound and considerable infiltration of the injured extremity, is always a certain sign of septicaemia, and demands immediate amputation through healthy parts, provided it is still possible. The author has found albumen in the urine in some cases; sweats are pretty common. There is no traumatic disease more dangerous than this, for the patients almost always die. Still it is proved by experiments that the absorption of a small quantity of putrid matter is not necessarily fatal, and there is no reason why it should be so in man, provided its source be at once removed by amputation. The author has seen two cases thus arrested; one was the following:—A man was admitted into the Berlin Surgical Clinic for a lacerated hand. No primary operation was indicated. There soon appeared marked symptoms of septicaemia, extending to the middle of the arm. Langenbeck disarticulated at the shoulder-joint, and the patient perfectly recovered. It is of great importance to decide how high the amputation should be. Examination after death or after amputation teaches, that, for a great dis- tance above the really ichorous infiltration, the only change presented is simple oedema. Unfortunately this is already infected, and extremely prone to decomposition; a small amount of such oedema in the stump will serve as a fresh source of infection. The amputation must be performed early, and higher than the cedema. Unless this can be done, the patient is lost. The operation is almost always delayed too long: the diagnosis is sometimes uncertain till too late. The patient should be seen almost hourly. The rapid spreading of the infiltration is very characteristic; purulent infiltrations, e.g., after wounds of the joints or compound frac- tures, generally occur at a later period ; the ichorous infiltration occurs up to the fourth day after the injury, but not later. Both cold and hot local applications appear injurious; veratrin given in large doses mode- rates the fever, but at the same time promotes collapse. Wine and camphor appear to be of some use. The author has never seen metas- tases in septicaemia. In an appendix he relates a further case in which demarcation took place on the stump, after amputation for this disease. To this chapter the author has appended some remarks on extravasation of urine and on ammoniaemia. On the former point he remarks that very various explanations of the symptoms and causes of death have been proposed, and that such cases have been included under uraemia, pyaemia, and recently acute ammoniaemia. He himself is of opinion that they cannot be referred to any of these affections, but that death is caused by the absorption of urinary constituents and of ichor together. They may be distinguished from pyaemia by the absence of metastases ; from uraemia by the absence of diarrhoea, of vomiting, of gangrenous processes (except of parts suffering from the contact of the urine), and of severe cerebral symptoms. In many respects they resemble cases of septicaemia; the presence of rigors forms, however, a marked distinction. In acute infil- trations of urine the fever is generally violent, the pulse very rapid, the temperature high, the tongue very dry, and the rigors repeated. VII. Fever in Traumatic Erysipelas. The following remarks arc founded on thirty-one cases. It was found that the fever often preceded the exanthem by some hours, occasionally a I