282 REPORT ON SURGERY. iritis and serous iritis due to other causes ; Rollet is of opinion that the diagnosis must rest upon the simultaneous occurrence with gonorrhoea and arthritis. As an illustration, we take the first of Mr. Wordsworth's cases. " It was that of an elderly gentleman, who was suffering from a profuse urethral discharge, synovitis of both knees, with great effusion into the joints, and double iritis. He had had two or three previous attacks. When I was called to see him, he had considerable sclerotic vascularity, forming a complete corneal zone of rather livid hue; the cornese were partially opaque, and permitted but an imperfect view of the irides; the pupils were contracted and irregular. He had intense pain round the orbits and deep in the globes, profuse lachrymation, and his vision was diminished, and attended with great discomfort. He was greatly depressed in health and spirits, his tongue was very foul, his stomach irritable, his skin covered with clammy cold perspiration, and his circulation very weak and irregular. Belladonna was applied locally, after a few leeches had been applied to the cheeks; light tonics and sedatives were administered internally. In consequence of the irritability of his stomach, we were obliged to change the remedies often, till he recovered sufficiently to commence a slight mercurial course. He suffered so much from the application of belladonna and atropine, that we were obliged to discontinue their use; indeed the eye and even the lids were so tender and irritable, that no application could be borne. As soon as the mercurial influence was established, the disease began to abate, and he slowly and progressively improved. With slight changes in the weather, the improvement was interrupted two or three times; but he ultimately made a tedious re- covery. Some synechia resulted, as he could never bear the belladonna, but vision was restored to a satisfactory extent." Dr. Alfred Graefe had occasion in a very severe case of syphilitic iritis, to remove one of the tubercles ('Arch. f. Ophth.,'viii, i, p. 288): it was examined by Dr. Colberg and found to be principally composed of very closely pressed together, young connective-tissue cells, with nuclei that strongly refracted light; it thus resembled a gummy tumour at an early stage, as described by Virchow. M. Fano, idiopathic mydriasis ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 178): Dr. Pagenstecher on iridodesis ('Arch. f. Ophth.,' viii, 1, p. 192). Lens. Dr. A. Mooren has published a pamphlet on a mode of diminishing the danger of suppuration of the cornea in extraction of cataract (Berlin, Hirschwald). In ninety-seven cases of extraction performed by him, eleven eyes were lost, one by intra-ocular haemorrhage, one from fluidity of the vitreous, two from panophthalmitis, and seven from suppuration of the cornea. The last seven cases were in either very aged or decrepit individuals ; treatment by antiphlogistics, and that by tonics, were equally useless. The great object, therefore, is to prevent the inflammation, which causes purulent infiltration of the cornea ; and according to Dr. Mooren, this inflammation is an iritis excited by remains of the cortical portion of the lens, or springing up from some accidental cause m cachectic patients. He tried Schufft's method in thirty-two cases, of which no