213 PYjEMIA. powerful, the actual cautery at a white heat, is not sufficiently potent. It matters not how deeply the wound is cauterized,—if the patient is left in a contaminated atmosphere, there will still be a gangrenous ulcer when the slough comes away. The air-hath is just as important in pysemia as it is in hospital gan- grene, especially if the patient can be placed under foliage, the exhalations from which are well known to have a very beneficial effect. In many desperate cases of these diseases, where every means had been employed in vain, and the patients seemed past hope, an immediate change for the better was perceived when Professor Jungken had them taken out of the hospital into the gardens, where they were placed on a simple couch, covered with a blanket, and left in the open air for the rest of the day under the rich foliage of the beautiful plantains. From that very hour remedies took effect which had been previously employed in vain, and in this way cases of severe injury were saved whicb otherwise would certainly have been lost. Professor Jungken found a striking confirmation of these views during the revolution (May, 1849) in Dresden, when a sanguinary street-fight took place between the insurgents and the soldiers. Many of the revolutionists were wounded, some very seriously. They were placed in the palace of Count Marcolini, in which the saloons were furnished with very large windows, opening like doors into a beautiful garden filled with splendid old lime trees. Whenever the weather permitted, those most dangerously wounded were carried on their beds into the garden, and. spent the whole day under the trees. The results were strikingly favor- able; perhaps no other hospital ever had such brilliant success. Better is it for a patient to shiver a little in a cold but pure air, than to die in a warm but poisoned atmosphere. Another point of importance is to prevent any intercourse between those affected with hospital gangrene and others. The bandages and in- struments which have been employed for gangrenous wounds ought not, if possible, to be employed a second time ; nor should bandages, linen, or clothing, be prepared or kept in rooms where infected patients are lying. Frequent change of the bedding, blankets, and linen, is also of the greatest utility where these diseases have already broken out. Among the large number of local remedies which have from time to time been recommended for hospital gangrene the more effective are perchloride of iron, pyroligneous acid, chloride of lime, hydrochloric acid, pulverized carbon, with chloride of zinc, myrrh, and camphor (R> Carb. Lign. til. §j, Myrrh. 5j, Camph. Ras. 5ss, Zinc. Chlo. gr. v; M., ft. pulv.), and chloride of zinc in solution. These medicines have not the same effect at all times ; there are periods in which chloride of lime is par- ticularly effective, and when no other remedial agent will answer the purpose; at other periods it entirely fails, and charcoal or pyroligneous acid produces good results, so that it is probable that,> spite of the simi- larity and even apparent identity of symptoms observed, there must be some peculiar differences in the several epidemics of hospital gangrene, which cannot be as yet distinctly recognised, but only suspected, from the success or lailure of certain remedies. There is only one remedy for this terrible disease, which never fails in its action, provided it is properly used and the hygienic conditions are