503 PREVENTION OE DISEASES. vaccination of the whole of the second batch) the infection manifested itself by the same succession of syphilitic phenomena. In the second paper, Dr. Pacchiotti states the further results of an in- vestigation as to the source of infection. Having ascertained that four mouths after the vaccination syphilis declared itself in the mother of the child first vaccinated, named Chiabrera, by an indurated syphilitic ulcer of the breasts, accompanied "with indolent multiple adenitis of each axilla, and that this was followed in two months by secondary symptoms, and having thereupon concluded that the case of the child could not be one of hereditary syphilis, he proceeded to investigate more carefully than ever the source of the vaccine which was employed, but with entirely negative results, so that the whole question remained undecided. In this obscurity a new fact presented itself to which the author attaches great importance. It appeared that an unmarried woman, a neighbour of the Chiabreras, who was herself syphilitic, and had lost a syphilitic child, had on several occasions, "two or three months before the first vaccination," nursed the child Chiabrera. It also appeared that another child, who was not vac- cinated, but at a subsequent period was also occasionally nursed by the same woman, became syphilitic, and communicated the infection to its own mother. These facts, which are stated, so far as relates to the accuracy of the diagnosis, on the authority of Professor Sperino, of Turin, under whose treatment all of the cases were subsequently placed, lead the author to infer that the infection was communicated to the first child in the act of suckling (by an ulceration of the nipple or by infected milk ?), and not, as at first suspected, by syphilitic vaccine. Seaton, Stevens, Sanderson, and Buchanan.—Local Inquiries into the State of Public Vaccination in various parts of England. Appendix to the Fourth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council. London, 1862. In these reports it is shown that in an immense majority of the inspected districts the existing contracts for vaccination are practically worthless; that, as a rule, the arrangements prescribed in them are such as would make habitual arm-to-arm vaccination rare or impossible ; that often the attendances exacted are several times as numerous as the births in the same district; that even in districts where the number of children re- quiring to be vaccinated was insufficient to maintain continuous vaccina- tion, even at a single station, the contractor has been required to attend at several; that such attendances being necessarily fruitless, the contracts have been entirely disregarded. In some districts vaccination has been almost entirely neglected ; in others it has been carried on with great success. Whenever success has been attained it has been invariably due, not-to the efficient working of the system created by the Vaccination Acts, but to the unaided efforts of individual contractors.