455 OTHER VEGETABLE PRODUCTS. Prom the preceding facts Scbroff is led to regard cocaine as a nar- cotic which exerts its action proximately and almost exclusively, on the brain itself, at first exciting the cerebral functions, and subsequently inducing impairment of sensibility, sleep, and stupor. It is therefore closely allied to opium and hemp, particularly to the latter. Its thera- peutical applications are obvious. It ought to be given in doses varying from one twelfth of a grain to a grain. As regards the relative activity of cocaine and coca, it was found that the action of four grammes of the alcoholic extract of the leaves cor- responded to that of one tenth of a gramme of cocaine. In the author's experiments on himself, five decigrammes produced nearly the effect of a centigramme of the alkaloid; iooo parts of the leaves contain 5 parts of cocaine and 166 parts of the extract. To obtain the hypnotic, anaesthetic, and sedative action of coca, the alkaloid should be preferred to the alcoholic extract or infusion, which, however, are most suitable when it is desired to act on the organs of digestion. On Coca.—L'Union, No. 91, p. 235, Aug. 2nd. The coca plant, Erythroxylon Coca (Erythroxyleae) is a shrub indi- genous in Peru, and particularly abundant in the provinces of Quito and Popayan. The alkaloid cocaine is obtained from the leaves, which have long enjoyed a reputation among the Peruvian miners for their power of sustaining the strength, and enabling the workman not only to endure prolonged abstinence, but to ascend heights without dyspnoea. In larger quantities the chewing of leaves induces a state of intoxication similar to that of Indian hemp. OTHER VEGETABLE PRODUCTS. Besttlet.—New American Remedies. Pharmac, vol. hi, pp. 456, 540 ; vol. iv, pp. 12, 52, 104,263. In consequence of the recent introduction into the medical practice of this country of many of the remedies which are used by a class of irregular practitioners called eclectics in the United States, Professor Bentley proposes to give a more complete account of their properties than has yet appeared. Proceeding in the order of their natural arrange- ment, according to De Candolle, he describes first those which are com- prised in the Ranunculacere. One of these, Cimicifurfa racemosa, had been already described (see ' Tear-book' for 1861, p. 430). Podophyllum peltatum.—Podophyllum was used by the natives of the American continent before the arrival of the earliest colonists. Since 1820 it has occupied a place in the primary list of the U.S. Pharmacopoeia. It grows wild in moist, shady woods, in all the Atlantic States from New England to Georgia. The rhizome and rootlets possess active cathartic properties, and are the only parts of the plant used in medicine ; they are officinal in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia. The drug has not as yet been laro-ely imported into this country, but the importation of the resiuoid extract podophyllin, has been considerable. According to the most recent analysis',