483 FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. in the middle of the night and cut the throats of his father, mother, and aunt, after which (as he subsequently stated) he felt in an ecstasy of pride and exultation. He was admitted to the General Prison two or three months later. While he was an inmate, with the exception of paroxysms of remorse, his mental state was normal, and continued so for four years. At the end of that time he became furiously homicidal, having previously warned his keepers to be on their guard; The pa- roxysm passed off gradually, since which he has been " a devout, quiet, and tolerably sensible man." A. M—, aged 23, a sailor, who had had three previous attacks of homicidal insanity, became subject, after hard drinking, to terror, sleeplessness, and delusions, under the influence of which he suddenly stabbed his grandmother, with whom he resided. In this case each paroxysm was preceded by alcoholic excess. On the even- ing of the day on which the crime was committed he was calm, quiet, and rational, and has since enjoyed uninterrupted health of body and mind. E. P—, aged 38, under a sudden delusion, without previous indication of insanity, threw herself and her two children into a canal; one of the children was drowned. Since her admission it has not been possible to detect any delusion or mental aberration. A. M'K—, aged 28, an aban- doned woman, under the influence of "revival" preaching, became suddenly subject to terror of future punishment. One night she rose and cut her child's throat and then her own. Shortly after, she be- came quite collected, and attributed her act to the prompting of the devil. She has since exhibited no indications of insanity. For details of the remaining sixteen cases, which are referred by the author to another category, that of homicidal mania (general insanity existing before and after the homicidal act), and are therefore of less medico-legal importance, we refer the reader to the original. Yellowlees.—Homicidal Mania, a Biography, with physiological and medico-legal comments. Edin. Med. Journ., No. 86, p. 105. In this paper is related the history of William Smith, for more than twenty years the most dangerous inmate of the Royal Edinburgh Asylum. The case was of importance, in a medico-legal point of view, as one in which a succession of acts, of the criminal nature and consequences of which the agent was perfectly aware at the time of their commission, were perpe- trated under the influence of an insane and irresistible impulse. His insanity first manifested itself, more than ten years before his confinement, in the unreasonable vindictiveuess with which he resented slight or imaginary injuries, and the violence of language and action in which the spirit of revenge often betrayed itself. In the progress of time he be- came more and more violent, until, in 1840, in consequence of a murderous threat addressed to the Lord Advocate, he was apprehended and removed to Morningside. During the first eight years of his residence in the asylum, he committed three murderous attempts on the medical superintendent or attendants, for one of which attempts he had been several months engaged in contriving a weapon. There was no reason for supposing that on any of these occasions he entertained any personal antipathy to the victims of his blood-thirsty passion, or that any motive influenced him excepting the belief that his confinement in the asylum