REPORT ON UIDWIPBEYj ETC. us patient undelivered. Sudden and alarming faintness, without escape of blood, had been the symptoms preceding death. The placenta was detached everywhere except at its extreme circumference, and the inter- vening cavity distended by a large quantity of blood partially coagu- lated. Ramsbotkam, Dr.—Clinical Midwifery. Med. Times and Gaz., vol. i, 1862, pp. 4, 54. The author relates the particulars of a series of cases of unavoidable haemorrhage which came under his notice in the year 1840 and in the four years subsequently. In the first twelve cases related, where the placenta presented in three, the breech, and feet were at the brim. Pre- ternatural presentations of the foetus are, he remarks, comparatively often complicated with placenta praevia. It is rarely that the infant is born alive after any profuse haemorrhage at the commencement of labour. This is to be attributed, not to any loss of blood from its own system, but to its deprivation of oxygen during the period when the woman remains faint, at which time there is either a complete suspension of the circulation through the uterine vessels, or the circulation is so languidly carried on that the blood is not determined to the placenta in sufficient quantity or with sufficient vigour to maintain life. Alluding to the operation of turning, the author remarks that he has often ex- perienced much difficulty in introducing the hand into the uterus when the case has been premature by one or two months, from a constricted ring within the os uteri, although that organ itself has appeared suffi- ciently flaccid to admit it easily. This he has attributed to the un- developed state of the cervix, especially since he has found that the further from the end of gestation the labour has come on the greater has been the resistance opposed. In the next series of cases—eleven cases of unavoidable hasmorrhage (p. 54)—several interesting particulars are noted. In the prognosis of uterine haemorrhage it is remarked that a sense of constriction across the chest,as if a cord were drawn tightly round it, impeding the breathing, is a most dangerous symptom, and that a patient becoming the subject of it rarely recovers ; jactitation almost always follows it, and frequently convulsions, preceding death. It appears to depend on spasm of the diaphragm, occasioned by the bloodless state of the vessels of that muscle. In some of the cases of placenta praevia related the operation of rupturing the membranes proved to be of merely temporary assistance, the bleeding soon recurring, and rendering further interference absolutely necessary. A third series of eleven cases (24 to 34, p. 10.3) are given. Respecting two cases, the author remarks that in each the recovery appeared to be owing to the injection of cold water into the uterine cavity, when all other means had failed to induce permanent contraction.^ The complication of placenta praevia with such diminution in size of the conjugate diameter at the brim as to necessitate perforation of the skull he has often met with. It renders labour difficult and protracted, but the operation of diminishing the size of the head does not add materially to the danger of the case by increasing to any considerable