BEBOBT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. phthisis is greater at Paris than in London, greater in London than in Namur. The author proceeds to show that the ratio ~ is entirely value- less as an index of the liability of the population to phthisis. It must he so, because it is founded on the fallacious assumption that the ratio of the total mortality to the population is constant, whereas it is subject to variations which have no relation whatever to the prevalence of the par- ticular cause of death to be investigated. On the other hand, the ratio — loses much of its value as an exponent, from the vagueness with which the term phthisis is employed, in assigning the cause of death as regards affec- tions of early infancy and old age, and particularly from the fact that, in the mortuary statistics of Belgium and Paris, a considerable number of cases of bronchitis of infants and oid people are included among those of con- sumption. In consideration of this uncertainty, and of the fatality of phthisis between the twentieth and fortieth year of life, M. Bertillon argues that, in the comparison of one country with another, the ratio -^-^—— P 20—40 is a more exact and reliable index than any other. Judged by this criterion, the several countries which form the subject of inquiry stand in the following order, the number after the name of each expressing the mortality from phthisis per thousand of those living between the ages of 20 and 40 I b IO—40 ( — x io,ooo) :—Luxembourg (23), Namur (31), Geneva (36), Limbourg (39), Belgium (40), Flanders (42)$ Paris (42), England (44), London (^o). So that at that period of human existence during which life attains its maximum of value (both actual and prospective) the liability to death by consumption is considerably greater in London than in Paris, and more than twice as great in the former as in the eastern pro- vinces of Belgium. The author expresses the hope that the causes of these differences may prove not to be beyond the reach of scientific inquiry, and that, in the impotence of therapeutics, hygiene may be destined to rescue from this, the greatest scourge of humanity, a large proportion of its victims. MEDICAL JIKTEOItOLOGY. Pfatf. — On the Influence of Atmospheric Ozone on the Diseases 0/ Man. Henke, vol. xxii, p. 189. The author's observations were made at a height of 1050 feet above the level of the sea, and are said to have been conducted with the greatest exactitude. He found that ozone was occasionally entirely absent; that it might be met with in all directions of the wind; that it was most abundant during storms and changes of weather. As regards the main question, his conclusions are as follows:—Excess of ozone in the air i3 prejudicial to diseased respiratory organs. "When the ozone reaction is intense, patients suffering from phthisis or bronchitis should strictly keep to the house. Ozone ha9 no effect on epidemic diseases, but favours the development of inflammatory affections, particularly of tonsillitis.