CIRCULATION. 15 In clogs which have been kept fasting for nine or twelve days consider- able quantities of glycogene are still found. Quantitative valuations seem to favour the opinion that a part of the glycogene is derived from bile which has been absorbed from the intes- tines. The quantity of sugar in the liver diminishes considerably when no bile is allowed to pass into the intestines. If glycocoll and taurine are given to dogs the quantity of sugar in the liver i3 found to increase, and by heating the parts new quantities of sugar are formed from glycogene. Sugar is also contained in the muscles after taurine has been taken. Hoppe, on the ground of some recent investigations of his, maintains against Frerichs and Neukomm ('Year Book,' 1861, p. 86) the following propositions: i. Biliary acids are found in the urine in cases of jaundice, and also when they have been previously injected into the blood-vessels. a. The formation of biliary pigment occurs at such places and under such circumstances as forces us to exclude the notion that they are derived from the transformation of the biliary acids. 3. Biliary pigment has not yet been artificially obtained from the biliary acids. 4. It is highly probable, as Kuehne has already suggested, that cholopyrrhine is formed in the blood from the colouring matter of the latter, in all cases in which blood-corpuscles are dissolved by substances which do not destroy life in the quantity in which they are brought to act. Such a substance, for instance, as water. Jafl'e dried a cicatrix from the brain which contained numerous haema- toidine crystals. He then moistened it with absolute alcohol, and made an extract with chloroform. After the chloroform had evaporated, beautiful crystals of hsematoidine were left. These crystals were freed from their fat by ether, and were dissolved in carbonate of soda. Whilst _ the yellow solution was passing through the filter it turned green. The crystals, when treated under the microscope with nitric acid, exhibited the changes of colour which biliary pigment is known to undergo. Similar changes of colour were also observed to take place when some nitric acid was added to a solution of the crystals in chloroform. Jaffe thinks that this is sufficient proof that hsernatoidine and bilifulvin are identical substances. circulation. Heart, Blood-vessels, and Lymphatics. Spring, A.—On the Movements of the Heart, and especially on the .Mechanism of the Auriculo-ventricular Valves. Annales de la Socicte Medico-Chirurg. de Bruges, 1861, pp. 40—43. Beau.— On the Action of the Heart. Gazette Mcdicalej 1861, No. 27.