54 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. fever was at first continued, and afterwards became intermittent and was ar- rested by quinine. There were symptoms of disorder about the heart, probably due to the formation of abscesses in its substance, and a similar one seems to have opened into the rectum, causing the evacuation of pus and blood. Just as convalescence was commencing, edematous swelling of the lower extremities ensued, and lasted some time, owing, no doubt, to thrombosis of the left iliac or infer, cava vein. In K. the fever was at first continued, sub- sequently remittent, it seems to have yielded to quinine. Z. had considerable intestinal haemorrhage which very greatly lowered the fever. In all there occurred more or less diarrhoea, and splenic enlargement. In all the kidneys were affected, the urine was albuminous, and deposited casts, renal and scaly epithelium. All had more or less delirium, stupor, and disturbance of the senses. During the existence of delirium the temperature was highest. The examination of the blood showed a considerable decrease of the solids in the entire liquid, and in the liquor sanguinis, with a corre- sponding increase of the water. The blood globules were especially diminished from about 173 per 1000 to about 140. The fibrine was some- what increased, but its coagulating power dimimshed. The mineral consti- tuents of the blood globules were somewhat increased, those of the liquor sanguinis diminished. The red blood globules had a great tendency to form rouleaux, and the white ones also to group themselves together. The author labours to prove that all fever necessarily depends on some pre-existing inflammation. Radcliffe, J. N.—Onthe Recent Epidemic of Diphtheria. Lancet, July 12th. Radcliffe states that the times of occurrence of the forerunners of the epidemic, the scattered and disconnected centres of manifestation, and its gradual growth, extending over a period of several years, would seem to point to developing causes slowly originating and acting over the whole or the greater portion of the surface of the kingdom, but culminating more rapidly in the southern than in the northern districts. Whatever were the causes leading to the epidemic, locality appears to have played but a very secondary part in their development; for in the period 1850-1859, within which dbphtheria was manifested over the whole of this country, the disease may fairly be described as pandemic. Within that period it was epidemic in many parts of France; in 1850 it prevailed epidemically in Norway; in 18 5 5 in Moscow; and in that year it was also observed as the most preva- lent throat-affection in the French army in the Crimea; in 1856 and 1857 it was epidemic in California and various parts of the United States of America; in 1858-59 in Peru ; and in 1859 in Australia and Nova Scotia. Wade, W. F.—Notes upon Diphtheria. Lancet, Aug. 23rd. Wade states sixty propositions, of which we extract some of the more novel and important. In some cases there is anatomical alteration of the spleen, which is solidified and of a pinkish-buff colour, with au unorganized hyaline, semi-solid material filling the interspaces of the trabecular. In all such cases purpura had existed during life, but there is no constant pro-J portion between the severity of the purpuric symptoms and the amount of splenic change. The objects of treatment ought to be to eliminate the!