453 ALKALOIDS. From ln's previous researches the author had concluded that digitalis exerts its special physiological action on the heart, through the " regu- latorv system of nerves " (the pneumogastric) exclusively, exciting them in small doses, paralysing them when given in larger quantities; and that the functions of the musculo-motor system of nerves are not im- paired until immediately before death in fatal cases. The present experiments were undertaken for the purpose of testing the truth of this theory, of which the author had been led to doubt by the following considerations. If, in the first stage of poisoniug by digitalis, the "regulatory" nerves alone were affected, the diminution of the frequency of the pulse would certainly be accompanied with sinking of the pressure in the aortic system. But experiments with the kymographion [self-registering haemadynamometer, Ed.] showed that this is not the case, and that in animals under the influence of digitalis, the arterial pressure is not only not diminished during the stage of retardation of the pulse, but that it rises far above the normal, so that obviously the phenomena cannot be explained without admittiug that the "muscuio-motory" as well as the "regulatory " nerves participate in the production of the results. In the opinion of the author, this supposition is confirmed by the following experiments:—For the purpose of ascertaining the action of the poison on the heart when exclusively under the influence of the musculo-motor nerves, the vagi were first divided in the neck, and in order to obviate the disturbing effect of the operation (which in itself would have determined an increase of the arterial pressure) a weak solution of curare was injected, and artificial respiration was regularly maintained, each respiratory act being made to coincide with the beat of a metronome. In each experiment the solution of curare was injected by the right external jugular vein; twenty minutes afterwards, the tube of the kymographion was adapted to the left crural artery, and the vagi of both sides divided. Ten minutes later the injection of the infusion of digitalis was commenced, and continued forty-two seconds. Thereupon the pressure of the arterial column was observed to increase rapidly (in one instance from 159 millimetres to 260 millimetres), attaining its maximum in two or three minutes, and then gradually declining. In order to test the validity of these results, the experiments were repeated under the same conditions, with the exception that water was injected instead of infusion of digitalis. The arterial pressure was unaltered or very slightly affected. It was also ascertained by experiment that in animals in which the vagi had not been divided, the action of digitalis was not in any way modified by the previous injection of curare. Scnitoir.—On Cocaine. "Wien. AVchnbl., vol. xviii, Nos. 30—34, 1862. Schmidt, vol. 116, p. 297. As prepared by Merk, cocaine consists of minute, prismatic crystals, the form of which can only be recognised under the microscope. ' They are scarcely soluble in water, more so in alcohol, most of all in ether It forms salts with hydrochloric and acetic acids, the solutions of which communicate a peculiar sensation to the tongue, and benumb its special sensibility. 1-1 30