367 DISEASES OF WOMEN. sists of a large, cone-headed screw, in shape like that of a boy's top ; the screw is one inch in diameter at its base, and one inch long; it readily perforates the head; presents no cutting, sharp edges; as it passes in, the fragments of bone are forced asunder, as by a wedge. It is easily and safely used. ANiESTHESIA IN MIDWIFERY. Skiniter, Dr.—Anaesthesia in Midwifery, with netv Apparatus for Us safe and more economical Induction by Chloroform. Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 2nd, 1862. The author maintains that there is a special tolerance of chloroform during labour, and that the employment of this agent in midwifery is far less dangerous than in surgical operations generally. He believes ■ it impossible to say beforehand whether, in the particular case before us, chloroform will or will not agree with the patient. The only true test is to watch its effects on the patient. He commences the employ- ment of chloroform at all stages of the labour, but considers that when begun it is desirable not to entirely withdraw it afterwards. He holds that, with the exception of a questionable tendency to the occurrence of haemorrhage in some rare cases, chloroform may be said to be per- fectly innocent of all and every medical objection that has ever been raised against it, in the practice of midwifery. A new apparatus for the more safe and economical employment of chloroform is described. It is composed of a mask or inhaler, whicli is a framework of wire covered with coarse domette, and covers only the lower half of the face. The chloroform is dropped on this apparatus from a bottle of peculiar construction ; it is a tube of glass two inches long, sealed at one end, so that a silver ligature only can pass. It is then thrust through a perforated cork inserted into a three- or four- ounce phial; this forms a most efficient drop-bottle. The inhaler is so made that it can be folded up, and thus rendered portable. The author states that, whereas he formerly found it necessary to use from one to one and a half ounce of chloroform per hour to keep up anaesthesia, be now- only has to use at the rate of half an ounce per hour to produce the same effect. The method of inhaling the chloroform was suggested by Professor Simpson's procedure of dropping chloroform on a handkerchief stretched over the face. Part II.—DISEASES OE WOMEN. PHYSIOLOGY, GENERAL STATISTICS, ETC. Harley, Prof.— Uterus and its Appendages at the Catamenial period, Path. Trans., vol. xiii, p. 170. The uterus was taken from a married woman, aet. 23, who had been drowned. The appearances indicated that menstruation would have commenced in a few hours. Tlie whole organ was congested- the tissue of a rosy tint. The mouth of the womb was filled with a white tenacious mucus; the mucous membrane lining the uterus throughout its