REPORT ON SURGERY. 222 F. J. Bumstead, 'The Pathology aud Treatment of Venereal Diseases, including the results of recent investigations upon this subject.' Phila- delphia, Blanchard and Lee. GONORRHOEA. P. Diday considered for a long time that there was really only one species of this disease, the symptoms being modified in different cases by accidental circumstances, such as age or temperament; ultimately he found himself obliged to admit a second species of discharge, which differed from the genuine gonorrhoea by its cause, its symptoms, and its nature. This affection is called by him ur6throrrh6e ; it most resembles gleet, except that it has no previous stage of acute inflammation. It seems to occur rather frequently, judging from the fact that Diday met with twelve cases in fourteen months. The symptoms are characterised by an extreme mildness from the commencement to the end of the case, and by the entire absence of any acute inflammatory stage. The case may, indeed, be said to be chronic from the beginning. The discharge is not purulent; it is glairy, clear, and transparent, with a shade of white ; it is very scanty in quantity, scarcely amounting to a drop in eight or ten hours. Its duration is long; it lasts for at least one and often for many months. M. Diday considers that it is induced by coitus during the catamenial period; he does not deny the possibility of its being excited by other discharges, though he is evidently inclined to consider that it is not. The following case appears scarcely to leave room for a doubt as to the influence of the cause first mentioned:—Case n. "A merchant, forty-two years of age, caught, in January, 1860, this disease, from having connexion with his mistress during the catamenial period. I explained to him the reason ; he listened, but only half believed me ; suspecting some source more equivocal and more affecting the honour of his quasi-spouse, he pro- mised himself that he would repeat the experiment. His discharge con- tinued many months, during which time he repeatedly had intercourse with his mistress without any unpleasant result; finally, however, he recovered, and chose a day, towards the 5th of February, i86r, for having connexion when she had her catamenia. Five or six days later he came to me with a discharge in every respect resembling the one of the year before." The period of incubation is very short, twenty-four to thirty-six hours. The affection obstinately resists all treatment; it cannot be brought to a rapid conclusion by injections of nitrate of silver, nor yet by copaiba or cubebs ; it gets well, but never suddenly. Diday found it best to order for fifteen to thirty days mild antiphlogistic treatment, such as gentle laxatives, baths, abstinence, and continence; and then to employ weak injections of nitrate of silver (about gr. j to siv of water). In a couple of cases in which he and his physic had been of little service, free beer-drinking stopped the discharge ('Arch. Gen.,' 1861, ii, 385). Professor Sigmund has published a series of lectures on this affection ('Wien. Med. Halle/ 1862, pp.63, 79, &c). He rejects the opinion that gonorrhoea may be caused by pus from a syphilitic ulcer; he asserts that