BKPOIiT ON MIDWIFKltY, KTC. 300 the best that the opportunity afforded allowed of. 41-20 grammes of healthy milk being evaporated and treated with sulphuric acid, the cal- careous matters were obtained as sulphates. The result was CaO -004 gramme, or -0109 per cent. Boecker, of Bonn, had in previous analyses given a somewhat less average figure for this constituent. One specimen from Gummersbach was obtained from a woman with this history :—Age 37 ; suckled her first child (born in 1847) one }'ear and a half; second and third child, bora in 1849 an(l ,852 respectively, each suckled for one year and a quarter ; the fourth and fifth children were dead (1853 and 1855). In the sixth labour, after turning, the head was extracted with difficulty, owing to the disease having commenced; the seventh labour was protracted eleven hours; the child was suckled from May 10th, i860, to August, i86r, at which time the milk was procured. The patient is a marked instance of the disease. The analysis gave, as a result, CaO '0325 per cent. The second specimen of milk was from a patient whose case has been related by Breisky, an equally well-marked case of osteomalacia. She had had five pregnancies, two dead and three living children bora, each of which latter had been suckled quite two years. The disease dates from the first lactation. In August, 1861, she was still suckling a child extracted by the Cesarean section in August, i860. The analysis of the milk gave CaO •0223 gramme per cent. It thus appears that there is a considerable increase in the calcareous constituents of the milk in osteomalacia, the quantity being double that normally present in the first and more than this in the second case. Still more striking are the results if we accept the results of Boecker's analysis of ordinary milk as the standard. The in- ference is that women the subjects of osteomalacia should not be allowed to suckle on subsequent occasions. It'would appear, from data obtainable from other sources, that the quantity of salts increases in the milk as lactation proceeds, and that it is greater at the end than at the commencement of lactation. In one of the above patients the urine was examined, but no increase in its calcareous constituents found to be present. The author concludes with the observation that there may be «marked instances of the disease when there has been no " child-bed," and when the disappearance of the calcareous constituents of the bones must be otherwise accounted for. Baenes, Dr. Robert.—A case of Osteomalacia. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlv, p. 63. The patient was forty years of age ; had been married for ten years, but had not beeu pregnant. Her original height was five feet eight inches, and she now measured only four feet eight inches. She was racked by pains in the bones; walking very painful, easier sitting, getting up very painful. After some months' treatment with zinc, iron, &c, cod-liyer oil was given in combination with dilute hydrochloric acid. After taking this medicine in combination with other remedial measures, she became able again to attend to her domestic duties. Subsequently the skeleton had been minutely examined. The physical appearance of the patient was remarkable. Long, thin, straight limbs, set on a squat, dwarfed, distorted trunk. The head, clavicle, scapula), arms and legs natural ;