CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 115 sudden expiratory efforts are made, the glottis being at the same time closed, and also in violent paroxysms of cough, as in pertussis, &c, the heart is sometimes brought to an entire standstill, as neither of the sounds of the heart are audible and the pulse cannot be felt. He believes this condition to be due to the increase of expiratory pressure, which is brought to bear on the capillary vessels of the lungs, and the right ventricle, and which cannot remain without effect on the large vessels opening into the right atrium and upon the heart. If this condition is protracted death results, of which Wintrich gives some examples. Wedl, C.—On the Mode of Origin of Phlebolithes. Wien, Ztschr. xvii, p. 145, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 24. After describing the structure of these formations in detail, "Wedl con- cludes that the great development of connective tissue, the presence of elastic fibres in the concentric cortical layers not yet ossified, the morbid condition of the venous wall, the occasionally demonstrable organic con- nection of the tail with the side of the vein, are so many facts which are not favourable to the modern view that phlebolithes originate in a fibrinous coagulum. Pokrowsky.—Researches respecting the Action of Preparations of Iron. Virchow's Archiv, xxii, 5, 6, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114., p. 18. Pokrowsky made numerous very thorough examinations of patients who were taking iron, and arrived at the following conclusions :—(1) The temperature of the body rises, in some cases very soon, in others much more slowly. (2) This rise occurs not only when the temperature previously was normal, but when it has been morbidly depressed. (3) An increase of the dose produces a further elevation, when it had ceased. (4) Several days after the use of iron the pulse rises, but not in all cases. (5) The daily amount of urea excreted in the urine is very soon increased. (6) The weight of the body is augmented. (7) All preparations of iron act alike. (8) Dropsical exudations in the subcutaneous tissue were absorbed under the use of iron, but returned when the remedy was left off. This occurred even in patients affected with mitral insufficiency. (9) Increased cardiac impulse and dyspnoea from organic heart-disease ceased under the use of iron, when digitalis had previously failed. (10) In cases where the temperature was previously normal, its elevation continued a long time after leaving off the iron, but when this was not the case it sank as rapidly as it had increased, at least in those instances where the morbid condition which gave rise to the low temperature had not been removed by the iron. Pokrowsky regards iron as having a nutrient influence, and believes that this is especially exerted in the capillary vessels and minute arteries. Kirkeh, W. S.—On Arterial Murmurs in Incipient Phthisis. Med. T. and Gaz., May 17th. Kirkes finds these murmurs to exist quite independent of cardiac ones, and to be situated nearly if not quite as often on the right as on the left side, and even more frequently close under the clavicle than at the second