380 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. uterine hematocele indiscriminately, inasmuch as the effusion is by no means always retro-uterine. In Cases i and 2, for instance, there was no tumour at all behind, the uterus. In Cases 3 and 4 it was found difficult at the bedside to adopt the view that the hemorrhage was into the peritoneal cavity itself. In both of the Cases 3 and 4 the tumour was punctured, and the contents evacuated. In the latter case great consti- tutional disturbance followed, with symptoms of pyemia, but both re- covered, and the tumours disappeared. • In both cases the fluid collection in the pelvis extended high up in the hypogastric region. In Cases 5 and 6 the tumour was comparatively small, and the term "peri-uterine" is applied to distinguish them, on account of their resemblance in situation and relations to the common peri-uterine inflammatory indurations, or to the induration produced by pelvic peritonitis. In Case j the tumour was situated at the left and posterior side of the brim of the pelvis, fixing and displacing the uterus forwards and to the right. It was punctured, and a brown, bloody fluid evacuated. A second puncture was followed by escape of eight ounces of fetid, bloody fluid, and some fetid gas also escaped. A discharge of purulent character from the vagina was noticed during the greater part of the time the patient was under observation, aud she was finally dismissed cured. In Case 6, after illness of nearly a month's duration, the uterus was found fixed in its natural position by a hard, tender swelling, high in the pelvis, between the uterus and rectum, to the left of the middle line. Six days later the patient passed a quantity of blood per rectum, at first red, afterwards brownish. A few days later profuse menstruation, lasting for seven days, set in, and no further pain was felt. The mobility of the uterus was restored, only a thickening and induration of the tissues in the seat of the tumour being felt. In the diagnosis, the history, if well made out, offers great assistance; but if the tumour be small, it may still be difficult to make a satisfac- tory diagnosis of this disease from pelvic inflammatory induration or abscess, from pelvic peritonitis, and from extra-uterine pregnanej\ The statement of Dr. "West, as to the elongation of the uterus being a dia- gnostic indication of extra-uterine pregnancy, requires, the author states, to be carefully guarded. The question as to general treatment requires no remarks. With reference to the surgical treatment, there is great diversity of opinion. In one case (No. 6) the tumour was spontaneously evacuated; in another (No. 2) the effusion rapidly disappeared; in some cases there may be no safe access to the tumour (as in No. 2), the tumour may be too high to operate from the vagina, or it may be feared, when the tumour is suspected of being extra-peritoneal, that the peri- toneum may be injured by a supra-pubic operation. But it is still often good practice to open the sac, and in many cases the only good practice. Thus in Case No. 1 there was every reason to expect bursting of the sac ; this was, by the operation, averted. In Cases 3 and 4 the ope- ration shortened the patients' sufferings, husbanded the strength, and contributed to recovery. If left alone, the tumours would never have burst spontaneously into the vagina or rectum. In Case No. < tl,e symptoms were so severe and the progress so slow that any^ means likely to assuage suffering and remove disease were justifiable. ' In another case the disease had continued for more than a year without any signs