PREGNANCY AND CHILD-BED. 405 of the tumour, it may resemble that present in retro-uterine hamia- tocele; but the history of the case, the association of the latter with dis- ordered menstruation, and not with the puerperal state, would distin- guish between the two. It is sometimes difficult to exclude intra- peritoneal effusion from the consideration. When the effusion is intra- peritoneal there is rarely at the outset the peculiar hardness present in the other class of cases; on the contrary, the tumour is at the commence- ment large and soft, and at a later period harder. In the extra-peritoneal class of cases the reverse is the case. In reference to the treatment of pelvic abscess, the author expresses a very strong disapprobation of all lowering measures, such as bleeding, application of leeches, administration of mercury, &c. The subjects of this affection are generally in a state of ansemia, and the remedial mea- sures just alluded to can but tend to increase this. Of the patients submitted to such treatment, and who have recovered, it may be said that they have recovered not from, but in spite of, the treatment. The application of cold might be attended with benefit, if it were practicable to apply it easily. Administration of suitable diet and attention to the con- dition of the body generally constitute the best treatment; with easily digested, nourishing food, gentle aperients, narcotics to relieve pain and procure sleep. To favour absorption, iodide of potassium or iodide of iron, in small doses, may sometimes be indicated, and for a like purpose warm or slightly cold applications, according to the sensations of the patient, these latter being the best guide. Opium or morphia are to be given to relieve pain ; a chloroform liniment is very useful also for local appli- cation. Small doses of wine best improve the appetite. With reference to interference with the evacuation of the pus, this is a point about which some circumspection must be exercised. When the symptoms are not very severe, it is best to wait until a clearly fluctuating point is detected. But when this is not the case, when there is considerable swelling, together with contraction of the thigh and general symptoms of forma- tion of pus, these are reasons for acting at once. It is then best to seek for a small, circumscribed, soft, painful spot on the surface of the swelling, and thereto operate. But if such a point be not discoverable, if the pain and swelling are great, and the patient failing in strength, it is recommended that an opening be made near the lower extreme limit of the peritoneum, just about Poupart's ligament. Two lingers' breadth above the ligament, and about half an inch external to the sheath of the crural vessels, is the best point to select. The method of operating recommended is the incision in preference to the use of the trochar. When the external incision is made, the forceps and probe are to be used in penetrating the different layers which may be encountered. An elastic catheter is sometimes useful to prevent the wound from closing again. It is necessary subsequently to maintain the strength of the patient by suitable diet. Mackenzie, Dr.—The Pathology and Treatment of Phlegmasia Dolens, as deduced from Clinical and Physiological Researches, being the Lettsomian Lectures on Midwifery delivered before the Medical Society of London. Lond., 8vo, Churchill, 1862, pp. 131. In the preface to this work the author states that many'of the facts,