109 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. unequivocal symptoms of aortic aneurism for fifteen years. In February, 1833, the man was bled from the aim to twelve ounces, and this was repeated every four days for nine months; then ten ounces were taken every five days. Altogether he was bled about one hundred and sixty-seven times. He looked pale in 1840, buthad good general health; was a labourer. Death did not occur from rupture of the aneurism, but from syncope. Chuckerbutty, S. G., M.D.—Brit. Med. J., July 19th, 26th. Eecords three cases of aneurism, in which the administration of pot. iod. appeared to have been useful in promoting the solidification of the aneurismal sac. M. Bouillaud seems to have come to the same conclusion. v. Year-book for 1861, p. 191. Sibson, F., M.D.—On Aneurisms of the Arch of the Aorta. Lancet, Aug. 9th. Sibson divides these into four groups,—those at and near the sinuses of Valsalva, those of the ascending, transverse, and descending portions of the arch. The first class rarely give much discomfort, so that many drop down dead suddenly (twenty-six out of fifty-eight), being at the time appa- parently in perfect health. When the rupture takes place into the pulmo- nary artery, the vena cava, or right auricle, or the other cavities of the heart, great distress is excited. If this spontaneous varicose aneurism takes place between the aorta and vena cava, the head, face, and upper extremi- ties rapidly swell, becoming purple and oedematous ; while the lower part of the frame remains of the natural size. When-it takes place between the sac and the pulmonary artery, oppression, distress, pallor, and speedy or even sudden death ensue. Aneurisms of the ascending pai-t present at or below the second right intercostal space. Aneurisms of the transverse aorta, present behind or at the side of the manubrium, being held high up 11 v the great vessels. If the valves of the heart are healthy, there will be in the two last groups a double aneurismal impulse, as well as sound, with an intermediate part of the chest-surface occupied by lung, where the heart- sounds are feeble, and where breath-sounds are heard. The descending- part of the aorta, when aneurismatic causes absorption of the bodies of the vertebra, a gnawing permanent local pain in the back, owing to pressure upon the sympathetic nerves, and in the later stages intense paroxysmal lancinating pains in the course of the intercostal nerves. Absence of breathing and immobility (sic) to use the left upper lobe, owing to pressure on the left bronchus, is another frequent important feature in such cases. Moller, J. and Rauch, C.—On the Influence of Lactic Acid upon the Endocardium, and in the Production of Rheumatism. Virchow's Arch., vol. xx, p. 211. Rhymer, CJ.—On the Production of Endocarditis by Injection of Lactic Acid into the Peritonaial Cavity of Animals. Virch. Archiv, vol. xxi, \,. 85. Brit, and Kor. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. 1862. Rauch confirms from his own experiments the statements made by Richardson, except Lhat he does not regard the thickened and Swollen granular condition of the valve as the result of exudation. Moller looks