212 REPORT ON SURGERY. W. Roser, in an article (' Arch. d. Heilk.,' i860, iv, and Sachs' 'Alman.,' 1862) on the trentment of pyoemia, gives several cases of recovery; amongst others one in which the delirium, which had been present for a number of days, ceased immediately on the administration of morphia in grain doses. He advises the simplest possible dressing of the wounds; no charpie, no useless bandages. Another interesting case of recovery from pytcmia with cbest symptoms is recorded by Mr. Butcher (' Dub. Quart. Journ.,' xxxiii, p. 22) ; the treatment principally consisted of mer- cury, opium, and stimulants. Professor Jiingken delivered an address on the treatment of pyaemia and hospital gangrene ('Allg. Med. Centralzeit.,' xxx, 67). These diseases, be said, are more easily prevented than cured. For prevention, we require the most scrupulous cleanliness and the most thorough ventilation, matters that should always be attended to in the treatment of the wounded, but especially where great numbers of sucb cases are crowded together in confined wards. Cleanliness and ventilation form, however, the foundation of our treatment when tbe disease bas already made its appearance. Where the surgeon has the choice, be should avoid the reception of a large number of severely wounded into one room. Large wards are little suited for surgical cases, especially for those attended with suppu- ration ; they too readily become hotbeds of pyaemia and hospital gangrene. Where there are no special means of ventilation, tbe doors and windows should be opened, even though the patients suffer from the cold. Fre- quent baths are of great service. If the wounds are severe or attended with much suppuration, the permanent bath is very useful in preventing these diseases ; the water should, however, be often changed, so as not to become too much charged with pus. Wherever local baths can be applied, they should be used ; otherwise a hip or a general bath must be employed. As to the local baths, the professor condemns such as are furnished with caoutchouc rings, through which the limbs pass, to prevent the water from flowing out of the bath; for then the india-rubber rings must fit the limb so tightly as to compress the veins, thus impeding the circulation and inducing sundry evil results. If the bath is to be really of use, the limb must be quite free in the water, without any unpleasant pressure. Fumigations with chlorine and vinegar are only slight palliatives, which may be employed when, for some reason, fresh and pure air cannot be obtained; those with chlorine are the best, but they are far inferior to fresh air, and, besides, in many cases they act injuriously on the lungs, indeed, cannot be borne. As wars are generally carried on during the warmer periods of the year, it is at the same time that the greater number of wounded have to be treated ; and as the locality of great battles often depends upon unfore- seen events, the surgeon generally finds himself under the necessity of providing accommodation for the wounded in quarters quite unsuited for the purpose. At that time of the year, fortunately a very important means, not only of preventing these diseases, but also of treating them * when they break forth, is yet available—it is the use of the air-bath, in other words, placing the wounded in the fresh air, under an open, linen tent-roof. There is no specific remedy for hospital gangrene ; none that, exclusive of all others, can effect a perfect cure; even the most I