100 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Down, L. H.—On the Condition of the Mouth in Idiocy. Lancet, Jan. 18th Excessive arching of the palate occurred in 58 per cent., excessive flattening in two per cent. In the majority of cases there was marked narrowness of the palate. In seven out of 200 the palate bones did not meet, but no instance occurred of cleft palate; nor has Down met with this deformity among 600 idiots. There is no direct relation between the width of the palate and the cranial capacity, for in a microcephal, whose palate was ™ inch wide, the internal canthi of the eyes were $ inch distant from one another; while hi a macrocephal, whose palate was $ inch wide, the distance between the canthi amounted to two inches. The chief characters of the teeth in idiots are, that the period of the first dentition is delayed, the second considerably postponed, and that they imdergo very general and rapid decay. The mucous membrane and glands are large, and the latter hypertrophied. The tongue is large, enervated, and rugous, deficient in its co-ordinated movements, and in its special function. The saliva dribbles from the mouth. Guggenbuhl.—On Cretinism at the Abendberg. Comptes Rendus, vol. 51, No. 24. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan. 1862. Guggenbuhl affirms that cretinism consists in various pathological alterations in the cerebro-spinal system, which produce the irregular and slow development of the body, and the characteristic obtusion of the senses and intellect. Cretinism is only exceptionally hereditary; it admits of much more improvement than idiocy, in which the frame is usually well- developed and robust. The post-mortem appearances are as follows :—(1) For the most part oedema of the brain, with anomalies in the lateral ventricles, which are dilated; at a later period softening of the neighbour- ing convolutions; (2) Imperfect or retarded development of certain parts of the brain, especially the anterior and posterior lobes; sometimes general atrophy ; rarely hypertrophy of the organ ; (3) Hardening of the brain or of some parts ; (4) Hypertrophy of the cranial bones which compress the cerebral substance; (5) The premature closure of the cranial sutures by inflammation frequently produces a deformation of the head in cretins and idiots; but as the same is often found in quite intelligent people, the disease cannot be attributed to such changes. Mitchell, A.—On Illegitimacy as a Cause of Idiocy. Med. T. and Gaz., March 1st. In eight Scottish counties Mitchell states there were, during 1858 and 1859, out of 21,932 births, 2403 illegitimate. In the same counties there were 703 idiots and imbeciles ; excluding 71, of whom no information could be obtained, there remain 632, of whom 108 were illegitimate. Supposing the viability of legitimate and illegitimate children to be the same, and that they have the same average lease of life, one-ninth of the community would consist of bastards, and this ninth would give more than one-sixth of all the idiocy (5'.B). This alone makes the conclusion probable that illegi- timacy is an important cause of idiocy, but as the infant mortality of the illegitimate is very greatly higher than that of the legitimate, it is certain