GENERAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 333 time and defective at another, or rather, weak at all times, since an error in any process is practically weakness, whether it lead to overdoing or underdoing in the results. The proof of strength and perfection in any process is a good result, steadily produced; the proof of weakness is a had result, and uncertainty in the character of the hadness augments the badness. Twin children should be treated with peculiar care after birth and for the first few years of Jife. Steinbach.—On the Diagnosis of the Sex of the Foetus. Mon. f. Geb., Dec, 1861. The author remarks that since Erankenkauser's observations were made known they have been much opposed. It is only by a long course of observations that it can be determined whether Frankenhauser is right or wrong in his opinion that a low average of the cardiac pul- sations in a foetus indicates presence of a male foetus, a high average the presence of a female. At the Lying-in Hospital of Jena the author has made observations which are here given as a contribution to the settlement of the question. The number of cases observed was fifty- six. Out of the fifty-six cases a wrong diagnosis was made only thirteen times, the errors being such as the author more particularly investigates subsequently. He states that in order to arrive at the truth it is neces- sary to examine the woman repeatedly, in order to obtain the mean number of beats in the case before us; and carrying out this plan, he employed auscultation twice a day from the time of the patient's ad- mission till delivery took place. Several cases were thus observed during more than a month. Others were under observation a shorter time. It was found that with the advance of pregnancy there is no diminution in the frequency of the pulse. The beats were counted during times of a quarter of a minute each, the mean of the different results being taken as the true one. There are considerable variations observed, but by continuous observation these variations are equalised. The limitations fixed by Frankenh'auser are not quite identical with those of the author. Thus, while Frankenhauser gives 136 as an ex- treme number, the author's numbers oscillated between 133 and 143; the mean number for boys being 131, that for girls 144. He does not think it necessary to rely on a particular number, there being slight variations to the extent of from one to ten beats in particular cases, and slight errors are unavoidable. Are we to rest content if we find that the higher numbers indicate girls the lower boys ? The answer to this is that in cases with the lower numbers the variations are more fre- quently up to 140 or beyond than below the mean 131, and it is evi- dent that more reliance could be .placed 011 the low average as diagnostic of males if there were more frequently observed a diminution below 131. In the next place the author deals with the difficulties and soitrces of error encountered in the investigation. These depend on the observer himself, the individual under examination, and the foetus and not rarely on all three of these. The attitude of the observer should be easy, that of the woman also ; and dyspnoea, nervous dread, irritability of parts about the uterus by which the muscles are set in