ItEPOllT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 412 premature); by forceps ia 3 cases, by turning in 1, undelivered i. llespectiug the months of the year in which the attacks occurred, it is stated that the months of October, November, December, and January, included together 10 cases ; June and July together 5 cases. The author considers that there are two forms of the affection, the one associated with a more or less marked but continuous comatose con- dition; the other, in which the latter condition is wanting; the former may be termed the cerebral, the latter the hysterical or convulsive form. The liability to the affection is hereditary, though this rule is open to marked exception. That the affection is the result of reflex irritation seems undoubted; respecting the nature of the exciting agent the author considers that eclampsia is only witnessed in its characteristic form when the uterus is in a certain condition, and that the uterus only possesses the irritating power in question before the commencement of the last two or three months of gestation. The lower segment of the uterus seems to be the special seat of this eclampsia-exciting capa- bility. The exciting cause varies, but in many of the cases related such a cause was distinguishable in certain externally acting agencies, e.g. sudden change of temperature and the like. With reference to the more recently prevalent theory of blood poison- ing as a cause of eclampsia, the author thinks it not consistent with known facts. In many cases there is considerable oedema during preg- nancy without convulsion, and there are also a large number of cases of convulsions without cedema. He cannot admit, in the face of known facts, that albuminuria is anything more than a predisposing, not an essential, condition. In reference to the treatment of eclampsia, the author regards chlo- roform as palliative; opium is not adapted for the treatment of cases where deep comatose condition is present; in such cases free blood- letting is indicated. In the hysterical form of eclampsia, the employ- ment of bloodletting must be limited. After bloodletting calomel is to be employed in the comatose class of cases, but in the other form opium, castoreum, and remedies of a like character, are to be preferred. Ee- specting the propriety of operative procedures during the progress of natural labour, in such cases caution is to be observed; the less " vul- nera-tive" the operation the better it will be borne. Eamsbotham, Dr.—On the Treatment of Puerperal Convulsions. Med. Times and Gaz., May 3rd, 1862. The author, referring to a case in which copious bleeding had been employed in a case of puerperal convulsions, the patient recovering, expresses his opinion that without such depletory treatment the patient could not possibly have recovered. He founds his opinion on the fact that, before such treatment was adopted, the proportion of recoveries to deaths was very much smaller than it is now. Formerly, more than half the patients attacked died. The present improved results he attri- butes mainly to the free use of the lancet.