IlEl'ORT ON VKACTICAL MEDICINE. 150 SECRETORY SYSTEM. Cockle, J.—On Cystico-cutaneons Fistula. Med. T. and Gaz., May iotli. Cockle records a case of this occurrence, seventeen calculi of cholesterinc and green matter having escaped through an opening formed in inflamed skin. No jaundice occurred, but there was violent pain in the right side and sickness, which abated after a day or two. The escape of the calculi took place in less than a week. The total blockade of the cystic duct is characterised by sudden distention of the gall-bladder, combined with the supervention of hepatic colic without jaundice. Cockle gives a good account of the literature of the subject. Abeille.—Gaz. des Hopit. Lond. Med. Rev., May. Foimd the continuous current of use in one case in promoting the dis- charge of a gall-stone as large as a pigeon's egg, which had got impacted in the duct, and had occasioned several attacks of hepatic colic. Hakley, G.—On Jaundice, its Pathology and Treatment—Med.-Chir. Soc. Proc, vol. iv. p. 111. Harley ranks all varieties of jaundice under two heads, viz., jaundice from obstruction, and jaundice from suppression. He points out a means of diagnosing these states by the examination of the urine, which in cases of obstruction contains biliary ingredients generated in the liver itself, and in cases of suppression those only which exist preformed in the blood. A simple mode of distinguishing the two conditions is to add to about 31] of urine, 3 ss of strong SO 3, and a piece of loaf-sugar the size of a pea. If at the line of contact of the two liquids a scarlet or purple colour is produced it proves that the acids of the bile are present, and the case may conse- cpiently be put down as one of jaundice from obstruction. On the other hand, if there is merely a browning of the sugar, the case is in all probability one of suppression. The former contrition, however, may merge into the latter. Tyrosine aud leucine Harley has foimd in the urine of chronic as well as of acute atrophy, and their presence may aid therefore in the diagnosis. Benzoic acid is specially recommended in jaundice from sup- pression, and inspissated bile in that arising from obstruction. It is desirable that the bile should be given at the end of stomach digestion, so that it may act on the chyme only and not interfere with digestion. Harley administers it in capsules which are not dissolved till they get into the duodenum. Leptandrin (Lancet, Aug. 30th,) is a black shiny powder derived from the rhizome of an American plant. Its effect is gently to excite the liver, and promote the secretion of bile without producing the least irritation of the bowels. It also acts as a tonic to the stomach, improving the digestion. Its dose is from half a grain to two grains three or four times daily. Iridin in doses of two to five grains is a remedy of a similar kind, but more aperient.