FEVEB. ACCOMPANYING SURGICAL AFFECTIONS. 191 freest sense—persistent albuminuria and casts of various kinds in the urine. This disease is occasionally developed during the course of chronic disease of the bones or joints. According to his experience, the lardaceous disease (Speckkrankheit) of the kidneys, which is generally accompanied by the same affection of the liver and spleen, is of much more frequent occurrence, in such cases, than the diffuse nephritis with contraction, which, however, he has seen in a few similar instances. Practically, it is of importance to determine the characters of the reaction after operations which have been performed in cases of albuminuria, and to decide whether some improvement or even cure is induced in the kidney disease by the removal of the affected bone or joint, or whether such disease should be considered a decided contra-indication to operative treatment. Five cases gave the following results :—the traumatic fever was of moderate intensity, and continued once four days, once two days, twice one day ; in two cases attacks of fever at a later period, without any local inflammation ; once inflammation of the lymphatics, followed by death; once erysipelas, with a fatal termination (during an epidemic of erysipelas). We may conclude that the febrile reaction after operations on patients with, kidney disease, but without dropsy, is not very great. "I cannot consider that a moderate Bright's disease, unattended by dropsy, by any marked diminution of the urine, or serious participation of the general nutrition, is a contra-indication for operations in other respects advisable." Cases with partial peritonitis ; operations for hernia.—The author has only observed the temperature in four cases, and cannot say more than that in strangulations of the bowel and secondary peritonitis the temperature is either normal or only very slightly increased. III. Traumatic Fever modified by contemporaneous Inflammation of Internal Organs. Cases of injury, in which both external and internal organs had been wounded, are included in this division. The author gives three cases of fractured ribs with pneumothorax, all of which recovered, and remarks that, as from a number of individuals with simple fracture of one or more ribs he had become convinced that no fever follows these injuries, it is evident that the fever occurring in these three cases was caused by a complication on the part of the pleura, lung, or heart. In all three cases the pneumothorax was restricted to one side, and attended by moderate dyspnoea ; the fever was but slight, only once did the temperature reach 0-7 above the maximum of the normal heat, and even this slight elevation should be, perhaps, attributed rather to pleuritis, although the latter was m all three cases inconsiderable, than to the pneumothorax ; for the latter disease, when unaccompanied by inflammation of the pleura, excites no fever, at least according to an interesting case related by Professor JJillroth. In one case of cut-throat there was a secondary fever excited by a tolerably severe inflammation of the mucous membrane of the trachea and larynx ; it commenced on the eighth day, increased up to £« »f %ft S 1ay' and Ceased) at thc same timc as the inflamma- tion, on the fifteenth day.