402 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Mitchell, J. T.—On Puerperal Peritonitis, its Nature and Treatment. Rep. of Obst. Soc. of London, Lancet, May 3rd, 1862. The paper contains the result of the author's practice, extending over nearly forty years, and in which twenty-seven cases of puerperal peritonitis had occurred. Of these, twenty-three had recovered. All the cases were isolated, being attended at the patient's residence. The remedies employed had been bleeding to a free extent once, in others even twice and the administration of opium in large doses. His practice had been to see the patient very early after the shivering fit had occurred. He then bled to approaching syncope, gave large doses of opium, following these measures by extensively fomenting the abdomen with flannel cloths wrung out of boiling water, and sprinkled with turpentine; enjoining perfect rest, quiet, recumbent position, and preventing action of bowels for four or five days. Ejeheer.—On tlie Treatment of Puerperal Fever. Mon. f. Geb., Sept., 1861, p. 209. * The treatment of puerperal fever will necessarily be fruitless and ineffectual if it be conducted on the " inflammatory " theory, and so long as the presence of an essential disease, of an acute poisoning of the blood, is disregarded. In a few cases we meet with a sporadic disease, attacking isolated individuals, resulting from mechanical injuries, &c, during parturition ; in the large majority of cases occurring in lyiug-in hospitals we have to do with an affection the essence of which is a blood poisoning. In some cases the phenomena present are the results of secondary inflammatory action. The author agrees with Semmelweis in his views on the etiology and prophylaxis of puerperal fever. Lastly, a short account is given of an epidemic of paerperal fever in Giessen. Morphia, in doses of one eighth of a grain twice or four times in the twenty-four hours, was administered in most of the cases; and frequently, alternately with each other throughout the day and night, two mixtures —the one containing camphor, liquor ammonise acetatis, and gum; the other, quinine (dose, one grain). This treatment was continued until the symptoms abated, one or two days, when improvement was shown by the increase in the secretions of the skin, the kidne}rs, the breasts, and by the increased lochial discharge. Konio.—The Perimetritic Exudations in the Pelvis in Lying-in Women. Arch. f. Heilk., 1862, No. 6, p. 481. The cellular tissue between the folds of the broad ligament of the uterus is the primary seat of perimetritic exudations. Erom this point exudations extend in different directions, and the tendency to these is favoured by the very loose state of the cellular tissue in puerperal women. The author, struck with the rarity with which exudations were found in the pelvis proper, made experiments with the view of ascertaining what was the path which these exudations most usually follow. The experi- ments were made on bodies of women dying after labour, by injecting air or water into the cellular tissue under the broad ligament. Ihe following are the chief results :—1. An exudation into the cellular tissue of the broad ligament in the neighbourhood of the tubes and ovary travels primarily aloug the course of the psoas and iliacus muscles, and