HOSPITALS. 489 HOSPITALS. Gut.—On the Mortality of London Hospitals. Brit, and For. Med. Kev., No. lxi, p. 199. Dr. Guy has investigated tbe returns of the mortality of the general hospitals of London during the year 1861, recently published in the ' Journal of the Statistical Society,' with reference to all the general con- ditions by which they are likely to be affected. His conclusions are as follows:—The influence of locality is very inconsiderable ; thus, it appears that in the hospitals on the north side of the Thames, where the general death-rate of the population is lower, the mortality does not differ from that which prevails in the hospitals which lie south of the river (viz., 96 per 1000); again, the west-end hospitals present a higher mortality by 4 per 1000 than those at the east end, where the local sanitary con- ditions are inferior. Other examples are stated, showing that the mor- tality of hospitals, of which the situations are most diverse, are often nearly the same. As regards structural arrangements, a similar diversity is met with, and appears to have as little effect on the mortality. The cubic space is greater at King's College Hospital than in any other ; but notwithstanding this, the mortality is 107 per 1000, that is, greater by 11 than that of Guy's or St. Thomas's. By dividing the hospitals of London into groups according to the number of inmates, and comparing the average mortality of each group with those of the rest, it is shown that size exercises no direct influence, for the highest mortality is met with in the group next above the smallest in size, and the lowest in the smallest. The negative character of these results leads the author to look for a solution of the question at issue in the selection of patients. The selection by one hospital of a more serious class of cases and by another of cases of a more trivial character is in itself sufficient to account for any such differences of mortality as are met with, and a consideration of the circumstances of the several London hospitals as regards selection, serves to confirm the surmise that this is the real cause of the diversity. For it is precisely in those hospitals "in which the attendance of a numerous class of pupils craving for instruction leads naturally and necessarily to a selection of severe and dangerous cases," and to which "practitioners who have formerly been pupils are in the habit of sending cases of a similar character, that the highest mortality prevails." Boinet.—On the causes of the Unhealthiness of the Hospitals of Paris, and the means of obviating it. L'Union, Jan. 1st, p. y. After showing that in the great central hospitals of Paris, such as the Hotel Dieu, the mortality among surgical cases is twice as great as in the smaller hospitals (e.g. Hop. Necker), and that in those which have been enlarged during the last twenty years the annual per-centage of deaths lias increased with the increase of the number of inmates, the author argues that the only means by which the proportion of cases can be augmented, and the duration of treatment per case diminished, consists in the substitution of small hospitals, constructed in accordance with scientific principles, and occupying less central situations, for such immense es- tablishments as the Hotel Dieu and the Charitd, in each of which he