ANEURISM. 247 the disease in this case is of more tban two years' standing: I greatly fear that pressure will not effect a complete cure. Time, indeed, imposes a limit beyond which there is no hope of inducing such a transformation: experience has yet, however, to teach us the exact period." 2nd. Two other methods, founded ou the same principle, coagulation of the blood in the sac, are— a. Acupuncture and electropuncture. b. Injection of perchloride of iron. Acupuncture has long been abandoned; it did not satisfy in any respect the expectations it excited. The presence of a foreign body in a cavity filled with venous does not act as in one filled with arterial blood; only a very minute coagulum collects around a needle inserted in the venous blood. In our patient, we have a mixture of venous and arterial blood, and thus the case would not be fitted for treatment by acupuncture. The injection of the perchloride of iron gave at first magnificent results, but at a later period some unfortunate cases ended badly, thus in gangrene of the extremity; hence this method became proscribed as extremely dangerous. For my part, I think that this decision was too hasty; I can adduce many cases of success which strongly support the employment of this injection. A man, still young, came under me last year with an arterio-venous aneurism of the gluteal region, of the size of the fist, the seat of violent pulsations and of a continuous bellows-sound: it was an aneurism of the sciatic artery placed, as it were, astride on the sciatic notch, and consequently presenting two lobes, an external one corre- sponding to the buttock, and another situated in the pelvic cavity, which could be felt on examination by the rectum. Messrs. Velpeau and Broca were called in by me to see the patient; they approved of my intention of employing the injection, every other method being unsuitable. In order to produce coagulation, it was necessary to interrupt the current of blood through the aneurism during the operation and for a little time afterwards: I resolved to compress the aorta, a proceeding, which, as we know from experience, is not. dangerous, provided the compression only lasts from twenty to twenty-five minutes. The patient was laid upon his back on a bed, which had at the part corresponding to the nates an opening large enough to allow the tumour to be seen ; I made a puncture with a little silver trochar; as at first nothing escaped, I presumed I must have pierced a clot, and accordingly I inclined the canula in another direction, a proceeding which was followed by a jet of blood. I then injected thirty-two drops of the solution of perchloride of iron at 250. No accident followed : forty-eight hours later, the aneurism still pulsated, but the blowing sound had completely ceased. Ten days after, the injection was repented, with the same care to prevent the circulation of blood in the tumour by compression of the aorta. From this time, the aneurism lost all its characteristics, and the patient left the hospital perfectly cured. The method by injection was therefore of immense advantage in a case, where every other kind of treatment was inapplicable. I will cite another instance:—Last summer, a young surgeon sent me a patient with an arterio-venous aneurism developed spontaneously between the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. With the assistance of