178 REPOllT ON SURGERY. reference to the requirements of practical medicine. A fourth edition of Froriep's ' Atlas of Topographical Anatomy' has also appeared. Pirogoff's work on the ' Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries' (new ed., Leipz., C. F. Winter) is now concluded ; it forms an octavo volume, with fifty partially coloured plates. MILITARY AND NAVAL SURGERY. On the former we have an American work by F. II. Hamilton ; a trans- lation of Appia's 'Ambulance Surgeon ;' the completion of Demme's work ('Studies in Military Surgery in the Italian Hospitals of 1859/Wiirzb., Stahel) ; the commencement of a new periodical, the ' Gazette of Military Medicine' (in connection with the ' Wien. Med. Halle'), and the 'Army Med. "Reports for i860.' On the latter subject a French treatise by L. Saurel. D. T. Demel ('Wien. Med. Wochens.,' 1862, 101) strongly recommends the study of gunshot wounds on the dead body as an invaluable source of instruction to the military surgeon in respect to the diagnosis, the course of balls, the practice of resections. He found, among other things, the statement of Stromeyer confirmed, that the head of the humerus is splin- tered only when the ball strikes near the tubercles, and never when it hits the surgical neck, or still lower. OPERATIVE SURGERY. The second part of ' Giinther's Guide to Operating on the Human Body' (Leipz., C. F. Winter) gives a description of the operations on the pelvis, and is freely illustrated. The first half of a new edition of Linhart's ' Com- pendium' (Wien, Braumiiller), and the completion of Chassaignac's 'Treatise,' have appeared. E. Gurlt has published a small 'Manual of Operations' (Berlin, Hirschwald) for the use of students. Dr. A. Tobold has given a description and drawing of a new operating chair, and also of an operating table for military use ('Deutsche Klinik,' 1862^.53). Cessner's 'Handbook of Surgical Instruments and Bandages' (Wien, Seidel) has arrived at a third edition. MATERIA CHIRURGICA AND THE MEDICAL TREATMENT OE SURGICAL CASES. Mr. Paget has published an address on the management of patients after surgical operations (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, ii, 155)._ He remarks that, though the preference for immediate union is generally just, it may become nn unwise prejudice. "When that mode of treatment is attempted and fails, it may lead to something more than disappointment —it may be very mischievous, for there is no local source of blood-poisoning more effectual than the retention of blood or pus till they decompose behind the edges of a wound unwisely united. The rule, therefore, for the choice of modes of healing may be always in favour of union by the first intention, when there is a reasonable probability that it can be, at least, in good part accom- plished ; but when there is less than a reasonable probability, to make no attempt at it. The local treatment may be summed up in two words —repose and cleanliness. The cleanliness should, however, include more