OBSTETRICAL OPEUATIONS. DIMINISHING THE SIZE OE THE CHILD. Pajot.—Ttco Operations of Cephalotripsi/performed on a BachiticWoman ; Pelvis five centimetres. Gaz. des Hop., Jan. 9th, 1862. On the first occasion this patient, a very short, rachitic woman, pre- sented herself in labour, at full term, March 12th, i860. It was a case which wonld be considered, by some, one for the Cesarean section; but M. Pajot had determined previously never to perform this operation when a cephalotribe would pass. Externally the pelvis appeared larger than it really was, but the osseous canal vras very long, and the contrac- tion was situated quite superiorly. "When examined, the membranes had ruptured; she had been frequently examined; the child was dead. The operation, designated by the author as his own, viz., repeated cephalotripsy without traction, was resolved on. The head presented; this was perforated, the cephalotribe then applied, pressure exercised, the instrument then a little rotated, and pressure again applied. Pour hours afterwards the instrument was again used, and compression effected twice; eight crushings were thus effected at four sittings, and at midnight the woman expelled the head, twice as long as normally, and much altered in consistence. Traction was made on the head, but further difficulty being encountered, the same instrument was applied to the trunk of the body, and five hours later the whole of the foetus was expelled. Fifteen clays after, a small vesico-vagiual fistula was found to be present; this was operated on, and cured. She was recom- mended to apply for advice, in the event of another pregnancy occurring, at not later than four or five months. She became pregnant again, but did not present herself at the hospital until advanced to six and a half months, within a few days. Without delay, the operation for inducing artificial premature labour was resolved on. A fatal case of rupture of the vagina, from the use of the vaginal douche, of which he had heard, had led the author to relinquish this method of inducing premature labour, although he had previously found it very useful. He now had recourse to an instrument designed by Tarnier, which is a hollow stem, at the end of which is a bag, distensible by water when the stem is in- troduced into the cervix uteri. Labour was thus brought on, and the shoulder found to be the presenting part. The feet could not be reached; the uterus was contracting ; and it was resolved then to pull down the shoulder, and thus procure dilatation, and to wait. The fol- lowing day the os was more dilated; decapitation would have been attempted, but it was not possible to reach the neck with sufficient ease to use cutting instruments safely ; the cephalotribe was then applied to the shoulder, and the part in question compressed ; the arm was then disarticulated. In the evening the fcetus had turned, and with the pelvis downwards. The fcetus was now extracted witli comparative ease. The patient was removed the same evening to her house, in order to avoid the influence of the hospital emanations. Respecting the cephalotribe and its supposed dangers, they depend, says the author on the traction employed after crushing ; the fragments of bones are made the means of tearing the soft parts. This latter part of the operation Pajot discards. The operator must crush ; repeat this opera-