STONE. 315 already existing danger. In some cases a small quantity of poisonous fluid, associated with or resulting from decomposed urine, probably enters the circulation by absorption, and produces those depressing constitutional symptoms which always accompany this accident, and which are dangerous in proportion to the diminished capacity of the kidneys to eliminate them from the blood, and of the constitution itself to overcome the shock which it invariably sustains in these circumstances. Lastly, in all or nearly all instances, the irritating fluid soon reaches the peritoneum, and if the powers of life are not already exhausted, it gives rise to fatal peri- tonitis. " The remaining causes of death after lithotomy I shall simply name, as time admits of no detail. At the same time, somewhat less of importance attaches to them than to those already named. They are, cellulitis occurring from constitutional causes ; inflammation of the bladder extending upwards to the kidneys; absorption of urinary products; phlebitis and pyaemia; shock; haemorrhage; and exhaustion. " The causes of death in children.—The single cause of death in children, which must be placed first on the list from the frequency of its occurrence, is peritonitis, one which is by no means common in the adult. The next cause—and it probably operates almost as frequently as the preceding— appears to be constitutional exhaustion or debility. " It will make our path clearer, if we first consider the causes which render lateral lithotomy so much less fatal in the child than in the adult, a fact notorious to the youngest student of surgery. I believe them to be threefold. First, lithotomy is not a very fatal operation in the child, because the sexual organs are not yet endowed with that special sensi- bility, the development of which constitutes the state of puberty—a sensi- bility which, depending on most intimate connexion between those organs and the cerebro-spinal system, necessarily associates them by the closest ties with all the other vital functions in the economy; so that any shock or injury received by the adult sexual apparatus very frequently involves constitutional sympathies of the gravest character to the life. In the child, there is, in fact, no sexual apparatus—that is to say, its condition is at present rudimentary, and the young patient is exempt from the danger, which exists in the circumstances pointed out. This is the first and the chief fact in favour of the child. The second consists in this— that the processes of growth, and consequently of repair, are more vigorous during childhood than during any other term of life, and injuries are more rapidly and more easily surmounted, than when these processes are less active. There are special adverse influences at certain periods of childhood, which counteract to some extent the beneficial effect of this, ns we shall presently see. Thirdly, the position of the bladder in children favours very greatly the continuous and complete discharge of urine and all noxious secretions after operation, a fact which is doubtless of some value in their cases. " Now, the liability to death after the operation of lithotomy in childhood varies very much at different epochs of .that period. Our table of upwards of iooo cases shows, that from the second to the fourth year inclusive the deaths are about one in ten or eleven cases; that during the next