78 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKD1CINK. occur, which, of course, vary according to the magnitude of the extravasa- tion. They helieve that the newly-formed memhranes may undergo retro- grade change, and even quite disappear, and think that to effect this should be the object of treatment in cases of suspected pachymeningitis. Inman, T.—On Acute Hydrocephalus. Lond. Med. Rev., May, 1862. Inman connects the pathology of the disease essentially with cerebral debility or exhaustion, or mal-nutrition. He asserts that symptoms of the approach of the disease may be observed for some weeks or months before it sets in, consisting in sudden drowsiness, feverishness, vomiting, or malaise. Treatment must include the avoidance of everything that can depress the nervous power, and the adoption of means to improve the con- dition of the brain. Friction with opiate liniments is very soothing. Schramm.—Diseases of the Brain. Bayer, iirztl. Intell. Bl. 38, 39, 40, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 300. Schramm practises in a very malarious district, and finds disease, in consequence, to have a special character. He classes his cases as irritative, torpid, and convulsive. Of the first there were 114; they were most frequent in May, and between the ages of twenty and fifty. Of these, fifty were attended with fever, and sixty-four not. In the febrile cases cerebral pain was the most prominent symptom; it was sometimes so violent that the patients became maniacal. Even in the intermissions they felt stupified and lost, and suffered with dull head pain. Severe neuralgic pains were felt in the face, back, and other parts. Delirium occurred frequently, but usually was transitory and slight. Some- times, mostly in persons above forty, the gait was tottering and unsteady, as if from drink. Disorder of the alimentary canal was rare. In young and strong persons the phenomena were more like those of the early period of meningitis, the skin being hot, the pulse full and quick, the face flushed, with restlessness and excitement. In older and more weakly subjects the symptoms approached more to those of the later stage of meningitis; coma and paralysis appeared imminent; the face was collapsed, and the skin cool. If quinine was given, early recovery took place, but, if not, coma became more marked, and life was in great peril. In the sixty-four non- febrile cases, the pain in the head was generally less severe; giddiness occurred in twenty-six, chiefly in patients above forty. Of the torpid class there were twenty-two cases, of which six occurred between the ages of fifty and sixty. In this class Schramm ranks soporose affections, which are extra- ordinarily frequent in that district, and, unless they arc grave, and affect persons advanced in life, are not of serious import. The convulsive affec- tions were mostly observed in children under the age of five, in fifteen out of twenty-two cases. In nine or ten of these malaria was the cause ; in none did teething appear to have any influence. Epileptic paroxysms occurred in four cases, and in three quinine proved curative. Besides this remedy, which is almost always required, antiphlogistic treatment is frequently necessary when the signs of congestion indicate that there is danger of effusion or hamiorrhage. Cold applications to the head, and opium, are often of much benefit.