163 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. (Inclining scrofulous eczema, saturnine or arsenical lotions, or calomel oint- ment in dartrous eczema. Rochard, J.—The Cochin-China Ulcer. Arch. Gen., June 1862. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 116, p. 309. This ulcer closely resembles the Yemen (v. Year-Book i860, p. 250). It attacks only persons of enfeebled health, is usually single, very obstinate, penetrating to the tendons and bones, and scarcely to be cured except by removal from the malarious locality. The parts surrounding the ulcer are anaesthetic for a greater or less extent. Von Barensprung.—On Herpes, specially tvith reference to its connexion with Affections of the Nervous System. Annalen der Charite Krankenhauses zu Berlin, vol. ix, part 2, p. 40. The author details fifty-six cases, which he classifies according to the locality affected, showing that the eruption follows the course of certain nerves, which he particularly specifies. He determines, that the source of the inflammation is not from without, nor in the blood, but that it operates through the nerves, and, in fact, depends upon their abnormal irritation. He traces the seat of this irritation to the ganglia on the pos- terior roots of the spinal nerves, which give origin to trophic nerve-fibres running peripherally in the nerves, but not to the cord. Hence it arises that while the trophic irritation (the eruption) is always on one side, the neuralgia, which is so common, may be more extensive and symmetrical. The latter depends on communication of the irritation of the ganglion to the centripetal nerve-fibres of the posterior root proceeding to the cord. Cases are quoted, showing that a peripheric irritation of a nerve containing ganglion-fibres may cause a limited eruption of herpetic vesicles. Treat- ment must be expectant, but when much neuralgia exists blisters are of great service in the neighbourhood of the spine, and also the endermic use of morphia. Hervez de Chegoin.—Union 8, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 3°9- Records an instance of the good effect of flying blisters in arresting Herpes zoster, and preventing the persistence of the distressing neuralgia. Cauterization with arg. nitr. he has not found successful. Chaxissit.—Bull, de Ther., Sept., 1861. Considers the pain of H. zoster as a very inconstant symptom, on which account it is difficult to determine the effect of remedies upon it. Flying blisters he also thinks are most useful. The eruption he would meddle with but little, and treat the complicating neuralgia according to its character. Forget.—Bull, de Therap., Oct. 1861. Finds that blisters do not hinder, but may even promote, the eruption of H. zoster, but they arc one of the best means to get rid of the succeed- ing neuralgia.