08 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDIC1NK. of a patient so treated is alarming, but in such deep narcotising lies liis safety. Mackenzie, M.—Digitalis in Delirium Tremens. Lancet, March 8th. Mackenzie states that three eases of delirium tremens have come under his notice in which digitalis was given in Jss doses of the tincture. In two of these death occurred; and in the other the digitalis had to he abandoned, and recourse had to stimulants and opium, under which the patient recovered. In the first of the fatal cases four Jss doses of the tincture, and a last dose of ^ij were given. After the last two or three doses he became very excited, fierce, and fearless, having been previously timid and tremulous. After a short but violent struggle he suddenly expired. The heart was found very flaccid, and its cavities did not contain half-an-ounce of blood. In the second case digitalis produced the same effect of changing a state of timidity into the fury of acute mania. Kinneau ; Ferneley.—Capsicum in Delirium Tremens. Lancet, March 8th, 15 th. Both these gentlemen have found this mode of treatment very successful. Ferneley makes an infusion with 3ij to aq. ferv. Oj,. adding sugar and citric acid to suit the taste. Weaver, J.— Treatment of Delirium Tremens. Brit. Med. J. April, 19th. Weaver advocates the administration of opium in doses sufficient to procure sound sleep. He gives the details of one case in which almost two ounces of opium were taken in the space of eight days. The last dose, which proved effectual in procuring sound sleep, was 5ij of solid opium, with ant. pot. tart. gr. ij. Weaver alludes to five other cases which he treated with doses of opium varying from ten to thirty grains, and which all recovered. Sayre, L. A., and Smith, O.—Amer. Med. T., March 8th. Record each a case of delirium tremens successfully treated by the iced bath. It has a powerful sedative effect, but may produce depression verg- ing on syncope. Echeverria, G.—On the Proximate Cause of Delirium Tremens. Amer. Med. T., May 10th. Echeverria is of opinion that cerebral hyperajmia is the proximate cause of delirium tremens, both when the disease supervenes upon a debauch, and when it occurs upon the withdrawal of the alcoholic stimulus in persons accustomed to it. He accounts for the production of cerebral hyperemia in this way : " The increased activity of circulation from constant alcoholic stimulus gives rise to a lengthening and dilatation of the cerebral blood- vessels. Now, as soon as the withdrawal of the stimulus diminishes the force of circulation, a stasis of blood takes place, and we have cerebral hyperemia, the true source of the mental disturbances." He finds that fatty degeneration luk.-s place in the cerebral tissue, and thai the capil- laries become varicose and lengthened, and have their coats charged with granular exudations of a fibrinous nature. These changes show themselves