55 GENERA], SYSTEM. i poison, and if possible to prevent the complications. Fluid nutriment is to , be given in large quantities, and Pot. Iod. administered with Pot. Chloras, the"former in doses of sixteen to fifty grains in the twenty-four hours. The patient is to be clothed in flannel and kept in bed. Wade has known no case of death where this plan of treatment has been carried out, nor of serious ' symptoms or secondary paralysis supervening. The exudation often diminishes with extraordinary rapidity. He has not observed marked amelioration from stimulants, nor from tonics and iron. He thinks we are justified in interfering with the throat-exudation when there is excessive fetor, or when it is so copious as to interfere with respiration or deglutition —not otherwise. In the treatment of paralysis Wade prefers Pot. Iod., : Ferri Iod., and Bichloride of Mercury in bark to tonics. Blisters to the top of the sternum, if applied early, seem to exercise a most beneficial influ- ' ence upon the paralysis of the palate. Paralysis may follow, as kidney complication may attend slight as well as severe cases of diphtheria. ; Guild, J. H.—Diphtheria in the Country. Amer. Med. Times, April 26th. Guild finds that calomel is unnecessary, if not positively detrimental. That qiunine is invaluable, and to have its full effect in the febrile stage shoidd be given in doses of from five to ten grains twice a day. A rapid diminution of the fever invariably follows. In cases without febrile reaction, which generally prove the most dangerous, smaller and more frequent doses have a better effect. The daily quantity should be from gr. x. to 9j. The albiuninuria is to be treated by tarmin, which also benefits the local disease. Insufflations of alum and tannin into the throat are preferable to caustics. Wiedasch.—The existing Epidemic in East Friesland. Deutsche Klinik, April 5th, 1862. Wiedasch contends for the importance of the renal complication in cases of diphtheria, and says that all cases in which there is only laryngeal or pharyngeal exudation belong to the more favourable kind. He seems to disbelieve the existence of a primary poisoning of the blood, and of paralysis • as its consequence. This he ascribes to the oligemic or hydraBmic condition. Greenhow, E. H.—Clinical Illustrations of Diphtheria. Brit. Med. J., Aug. 2nd. Greenhow records cases illustrating the especial susceptibility of the members of particular families to contract this disease, and its greater ten- dency in such cases to prove fatal, also the relation between diphtheria and the milder cases of sore-throat which prevail simultaneously ; the tendency of diphtheria to become, as it were, engrafted on other disorders ; the occur- • rence of an eruption much like that of typhoid fever. Be ale, L. S.—Clinical Lecture on the Treatment of Rheumatic Fever, and on the Use of Alcohol in Serious Cases of this Disease. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 25th, Feb. 1st. Beale. distinguishes between rheumatic fever complicated with pericarditis and pneumonia occurring in asthenic and in sthenic subjects. His remarks