DISEASES OF WOMEN. 381 of the tumours, which were large, pointing iu any direction. The author considers that Case No. <5 illustrates the necessity for a free opening m some cases. Preeness of the opening will not, however, always prevent penetration of the tumour in more than one new direction. In operating, a trocar or guarded bistoury may be used, the operator being careful to wound only in the middle hne in the case of vaginal operations on retro- uterine tumours, and to avoid injuring any pulsating vessel. The intro- duction of the finger to break down clots is not necessary or proper. Care must be taken in other positions of the tumour to avoid injuring the rectum or bladder. As to the absorption of the blood, the author believes that, if it becomes dissolved and syrup-like^ it becomes always mixed with .pus, and is not absorbed, but discharged. If it remains in form of clot, it may be absorbed. Mere bulk is not necessarily an indication for operation, but large effusions are less likely to be absorbed than smaller ones. ,' ■ Febbee.—On the Pathogeny of the so-called 'Retro-uterine Heematocele. Arch. f. Heilk., 1862, No. 5, p. 431. The author remarks that the number of theories put forward as to the pathogeny of retro-uterine hematocele is very considerable. A true interpretation of the facts can only be arrived at by an extended series of observations, not simply of cases where the condition is well marked, but of cases where slight, less considerable, peri-uterine effusions take place. Few observations have yet been made as to the effects and appearances produced by such slight effusions. A peculiar pathological change noticed in individuals who have passed the climacteric period is presence of brownish, dark patches on those parts of the peritoneum which cover the internal genitals. These pigment-deposits are irregu- larly placed and of various sizes and shapes, but they are chiefly to be met with in the retro-uterine pouch. Under the microscope there are indications of remains of capillary vessels in these patches. In many cases villous-like processes are visible, having pigmentary deposits of the kind just mentioned. These appearances are not met with so fre- quently in younger individuals ; in the latter case we find reddish, spots made up of capillaries filled with blood, also processes brightly injected, and only in a few cases are found in the lower part of the retro-uterine fossa traces of blood-residue. As a further stage of the injection and increase of capillaries we have pseudo-membranous formations; these may be found loose on the peritoneal surface of the uterus. Under the microscope these latter exhibit numerous, narrow, interlaced capillaries and extravasations. The author here gives,the special pathological con- ditions found in two cases, illustrative of the foregoing remarks. He considers that the observations made point to the conclusion that in many cases of retro-uterine hsematoeele, perhaps in the majority, we have present a hemorrhagic pelvi-peritonitis, and that the manner in which the hemorrhage occurs is analogous to that which is observed, according to Virchow, in hematoma of the dura mater when the bleed- ing occurs from the newly formed vessels,'' and into the spaces between the successive layers of the inflammatory false membrane. The etiology of hematocele is various, but the explanations which have been