200 ItEPOUT ON SUHOKItY. day or n tiny and a half. The disease generally commenced in the evening (twenty-eight times), rarely in the morning (three times). The exanthem generally stopped three days on one and the same place, then became pale, and desquamation commenced, whilst on other spots the exanthem was pro- gressing. Cases, however, occur in which the redness lasts only twelve to twenty-four hours, and is followed hy scarcely any desquamation. Twelve times the erysipelas commenced with a rigor, more or less marked ; nineteen times without. The fever generally increased very rapidly (twenty-six times); in only five cases did it begin to rise gradually with morning remissions. The duration of the fastigium mostly depends on that of the fever and the extent of the exanthem. A fastigium continuing for the first three or four days with a temperature above 39\5° always announces a very severe case. The temperature is usually very high for the first few days; not unfrequently on the first or second evening of the attack it is upwards of 400. The course of the fever and exanthem is either continuous or interrupted. The fever continues, till the final defervescence, at almost the same height, and the exanthem steadily progresses (continued course); or the pyrexia entirely ceases for twelve, even twenty-four or thirty-six, hours, then recommences, lasts three or four days, then desists, and then perhaps again appears, and runs the same course ; the exanthem advances or declines at the same time as the fever. The fever lasted in— 2 Cases ... 1 day 4 Cases • . . 11 days 3 ft • • • 2,, 1 „ • • • 12 „ 2 (1 • • • 3 » 2 i, • • • 13 >» 4 i> •••S>> 1 » • • • *5 •> 2 „ . . . 6 ,, 1 16 „ 4 1, • • • 7 u 2 „ # . . • 17 " 1 8 „ 1 „ ... 21 31 In twenty-one cases the course was continuous; in ten interrupted. The cases lasting a single day are worth notice; in the evening there was slight redness around the wound and violent fever, with a temperature of 40'3°; on the next morning both redness and fever had completely dis- appeared, and the process was concluded. In both cases an emetic had been at once administered, and the author could not help the impression that the result was really a propter hoc, and not merely a post hoc. The defervescence is generally rapid (sixteen times) ; occasionally very gradual, even lasting six days (ten cases). Excluding the ten cases with an interrupted course and five cases of death, the defervescence begau in— 2 Cases on the 1st day 2 Cases on the 6th day. 5 „ M 2nd „ 1 n „ 71'1 »■ 1 „ „ 4t'> .. 1 " « 9th » 3 .. .. 5 ll> » _2 " " '4th " 16 When the patient has been from three to four days free from fever, we may be certain that the process is ended.