lUU'OltT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 23 A dog, weighing ,33-3 at the beginning of the experiment, was put into the apparatus immediately after having been fed, and was left there each time for twenty-four hours. The elimination of nitrogen is not proportionate to that of carbonic acid. Whilst the quantities of urea varied from 8-3 to io8'8 grammes, those of carbonic acid varied only from 289-4 to 840-4 grammes. As regards carbonic acid, the conclusion may be drawn that in the same subject the quantity of heat produced by the process of decomposition may be at one time three times greater than at another. During starvation both the amount of urea and the amount of car- bonic acid decrease: tdl at last only half the normal quantity of car- bonic acid is eliminated. In estimating the quantity of substance used up during starvation in twenty-four hours by the urea secreted in that time, 200 grammes of fat are found to be consumed. Whilst the dog was fed on 400 grammes of meat and 250 grammes of starch or sugar, all nitrogen and carbon taken with the food were contained in the excrements; but if the dog was fed with the same quantity of meat and with 200 grammes of fat, all the nitrogen was eliminated, but not all the carbon; which shows that in the latter case fat was added to the bulk of the body. In taking 400 grammes of meat and 200 grammes of glue, more carbon was eliminated by the lungs and skin than the food contained ; but, on the other hand, not all the nitrogen was found in the urine; which indicates that in this case a quantity of non-nitrogenous sub- stances belonging to the tissues of the body (probably fat) was consumed. The carbon of 800 grammes of bread was entirely eliminated in twenty-four hours. When 350 grammes of fat were given, the tissues of the animal yielded to excretion a nitrogenous substance ; but, nevertheless, fat was formed in the body, for the carbon of the food was not entirely eliminated. The dog being fed on 200 grammes of glue, a loss of nitrogen was observed, and more carbonic acid was eliminated than was contained in the glue. If a large quantity of meat was taken, the entire quantity of carbon contained in it was not found in the expired air, but, on the other hand, the whole amount of the nitrogen reappeared in the urine. Fat was most likely formed in this case. In the first experiment, after the dog had taken daily 1500 grammes of meat for sixteen days, 637 per cent, of the inhaled oxygen reappeared in the carbonic acid. * The dog, having then been kept fasting for ten days, eliminated at the end of that time much less carbonic acid than before, but more oxygen with it; whilst the dog was fed on meat and starch, the quantity of exhaled oxygen kept increasing, till at last 50 per cent, more oxygen was contained in the eliminated carbonic acid than had been inhaled. This circumstance could only be accounted for by assuming that carbonic acid had been formed from the starch and sugar. If this was actually the case, the hydrogen must certainly have been liberated in sufficient quantity to be found in the atmosphere of the apparatus. An examination of that atmosphere proved the correctness of tBis view.