CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. Ill Withering. These are, that the leaves should only be collected from second year's plants at the time when the first flowers make their appearance, the parenchyma only of the leaf is to he used. They are to be dried before a stove till they are friable, and kept then in close tin boxes. Not more than a \ ear's supply should be kept. Winogradoff.—On the Influence of Digitaline of the Metamorphosis of Tissue, and the Medium Pressure of the Blood in the Arteries. Virchow's Archiv, xxii, 5, 6. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 16. The first question which Winogradoff proposed to resolve by his in- quiries was, what influence has digitaline, which certainly diminishes the heart's movements, on the strength of the pressure of blood in the arteries ? The result obtained was negative, no change being produced. From this be deduces the important conclusion that digitaline may be given without risk in morbid conditions attended with diminished pressure of blood in the arteries, as in diseases of the heart, with insufficient compensation. The second question is, whether the slowing of the heart's action is the result of increased regulating influence in the musciflo-motor nerves of the heart, produced by stimulation of the medulla oblongata and nervus vagi ? The experiments made by comparing the effect of injection of digitaline into the blood, with that of stimulating the vagus by a weak galvanic current, show that the two do not act alike, the latter not only slowing the heart's motion, but diminishing the blood-pressure in the arteries, which digitaline does not. The drug therefore does not produce its effect by excitement of the vagus or medulla oblongata. Tire last question respects the influence of digitaline on tissue metamorphosis. Winogradoff observes that the system after a time accommodates itself to digitalis, so that the dose can be raised gradually considerably higher than it was at the commencement. This accommodating power is evidenced not only by the greater tolerance of tbe stomach, but by the pulse and temperature remaining unaffected. No diuretic effect is produced, but, on the contrary, the urea, the chlorides, the inorganic salts, are all diminished. The phosphoric and sul- phuric acids are, however, increased. Tkaube.—On the Theory of the Action of Digitalis. Med. Centr. Ztg., xxx, 94, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 182. Traube, finding that slowing of the heart's action often coincided with jncreased pressure in the arteries, and increased frequency again with Diminished arteiial pressure, conceived the idea, which subsequent experi- m'Hi has confirmed, that digitalis acts on both the regulating and motor inTvrs <rf the heart, and that the degree of pressure in the aortic system is the conjoint result of these two factors. The first action of digitalis on each is to excite, and the subsequent to paralyse. If, then, the motor are more stimulated than the regulating nerves, the arterial pressure will be ised, and so it will be if the regulating are enfeebled while the motor toe excited. On the contrary, the arterial pressure diminishes when the regulating nerves are more strongly excited than the motor. In a dog poisoned with curare, artificial respiration was kept up, the vagi divide.? and the arterial pressure noted after injection of 3iij of very strong digi-