HKPOltT ON PHYSIOLOGY. current, and this at a point as remote as possible from the ganglion. Each time this was done a drop of saliva was seen dripping from the tube every six to ten seconds. But the flow of saliva ceased at once when the galvanic irritation was suspended. To show that the secretion was caused by true nervous influence, other stimulants were applied, and these furnished the same result as the electric current. Bernard found that, with the secretion, the circulation is accelerated at the same time, and concludes therefrom that the vaso-motor and calorific phe- nomena are exhibited without the aid of the cerebro-spinal system; that they take place, by means of reflex action, entirely within the province of the sympathetic nerve. He states that the tongue is con- nected with the submaxillary gland by two nervous arcs, which are in some measure concentric ; the one communication, which passes through the brain, is conscious, and is made use of more especially by the gus- tatory functions of the tongue; the other, which is unconscious, passes through the submaxillary ganglion, and seems particularly to transmit the sensations of dryness or humidity of the bucco-lingual mucous mem- brane. But the submaxillary ganglion not only possesses the power of propagating reflex actions, which by its agency may arrive at the sub- maxillary gland without passing through the brain, but it seems also to have a special influence upon the intermittence of the salivary secre- tion ; for Bernard has observed that after section of the ganglion (the lingual nerve and the chorda tympani remaining intact) the secretion of the gland becomes continuous, although its quantity may still be increased by the application of excitants of taste to the tongue. The secretion at once ceases when, on the side on which it had been con- tinuous, the tympano-lingual trunk is divided above the point from which the chorda tympani emerges. Another remarkable fact is that the submaxillary ganglion, when it has been severed from all con- nection with the cerebro-spinal axis, retains its property of transmitting reflex actions for a limited period only. The gland entirely deprived of its nervous influences does not, as one would expect, fall into a state of functional rest, but goes on continuously secreting. Bernard thinks that the nerves do not, as is generally believed, act as stimulants to the functions of the organs with which they are connected, but, on the con- trary, as reins. G-olz was led by his researches to the following conclusions:—That connection of the nerves of a part with the nervous centres is not in- dispensably requisite for the continuance of the vegetative functions of the part. Circulation, change of arterial into venous blood, inflam- mation—all these processes occur in a limb in which every connection with the nervous centres has been completely severed.