REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. emotions, and certain acute diseases, as typhoid fever and pneumonia. Willemin has the utmost confidence in treatment hy the Vichy water, sufficiently prolonged; the attacks are diminished in number, or put an end to; the water has a direct action which opposes the formation of concretions. Stadion, B. H.—The Physiological Action of Digitalin, with especial regard to its Influence on the Quantity and Composition of the Urine. Prag. Vjhrschr., lxxiv., p. 97, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 287. Stadion finds, by experiments on himself, that digitalin diminishes the water, urea, chloride of sodium, phosphates and sulphates of the urine. The amount of uric acid increases, the degree of acidity remains unchanged, the specific gravity falls. The body rapidly emaciates, and the sexual power is much diminished or quite abolished. Digitalin produces a violent catarrhal affection of the nose, but affects the intestinal canal less than digitalis. Its power is thirty times as great as that of the latter. Eade, P., M.D.—On Diabetes Insipidus. Arch, of Med., No. x, 1862. Eade records the symptoms of three cases he has observed, and the post-mortem examination of one fatal. The kidneys were greatly wasted, the cortical portions very thin, and scarcely to be distinguished from the pyramidal. Many of the cortical tubes were very narrow and much wasted, while others were twice the natural diameter. The epithelial cells were also smaller as well as more numerous than in health, and the tubes appeared to be distended in many places by their accumulation. The supra-renal bodies were greatly diseased; both converted into flaccid cysts, capable of containing each some half-ounce of fluid, with thin walls, having a bile-coloured granular appearance. No other important change. Eade suggests the possibility of the diabetes being dependent on the disease of the capsules. Meissner, H.—On the Connexion of Bronzed Skin and Supra-Renal Capside Disease. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 46. Meissner quotes from various authors numerous observations bearing on this subject, and deduces the following conclusions :—(1) In a series of cases, bronzed skin and supra-renal disease are met with together, and no other morbid change has been discovered on post-mortem examination. (2) Supra-renal disease often occurs without bronzed skin, and (3) the con- verse. (4) There are pigment deposits depending on quite different causes, even though supra-renal disease may happen to be present. And (5) in animals the supra-renal capsules may be extirpated with impunity, without the skin becoming pigmented, or speedy death ensuing. Wilks docs not regard the bronzing as the essential sign of Addison's disease, but rather the anamiia and muscular debility. Buhl, on the other hand, thinks the supra-renal disease non-essential. It is only a part (which may be absent) of a general disease, consisting in the deposit of miliary tubercle in the lungs, spleen, liver, and lymphatic glands. Schmidt believes the funda- mental part of Addison's disease to consist in an atrophy of the sympa- thetic nerves, which has been demonstrated in two cases. If the upper