REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 8G amount of the drug taken in any single instance was forty-eight grains. The cases treated by Wunderlich were comparatively recent, those of M.M. Charcot and Vulpian were chronic, and had been sent to the Salpetriere as incurable. They were five in number, all of whom were materially benefited—pains ceased, motor and sensory power was restored, and in one instance visual. The general health was much improved, the appetite increased, constipation yielded, and they gained flesh. The dose of the drug was one-sixth of a grain bis vel ter die; amelioration com- menced in from four to ten days. The same treatment proved very bene- ficial in a case of complete paraplegia. Cloez has demonstrated the presence of silver in the urine of patients who were talcing the nitrate. Clemens, Th.—The Diseases of the Spinal Cord in their relation to Electric Currents and Curative Agents. Deutsch. Klinik., 1862. No. 15, 28, April 12th. Clemens states that in the most various diseases of the spinal cord it is not unfrequent to observe that the irritability of the muscles is greatly depressed, while their sensibility is morbidly increased. Electric currents then excite violent pains, and only barely perceptible contractions, and these pains are felt not at all in the slrin, but evidently in the muscle through which the current is transmitted. Even the influence of the will, which may be powerless to cause contraction, will in such cases produce sharp pain. He relates an experiment showing that the irritability of a frog's heart persists longer in a positively electrified atmosphere (within a Leyden jar) than in the open air. Clemens insists on the great advantage of passing currents through the genital organs as a means of improving the innervation of the spinal cord. This is very apparent in patients who have brought themselves into a state of great debility by onanism, the toning and invigorating of the genital nerves exercising a very favourable reflex action on the whole nervous system. Urethral hyperesthesia is speedily cured by this method. Bergson, Jos.—On Brachial Neuralgias. Prize Essay, Milan, i860. Schmidt's Jahrh., vol. 113, p. 296. Bergson treats first of neuralgias from mechanical causes, contusions, and injuries. He describes the latter as characterised by extremely violent pain, starting from the seat of the injury, centrifugal or centripetal, often periodic, and accompanied with great tenderness, which appears a longer or shorter time after the injury. There is also swelling and redness, which differ from those of aponeurotic inflammations or deep abscesses by the more vivid redness of the former, the greater pallor of the skin, the more marked oedema, and generally the sudden and repeated increase and decrease of the symptoms. Further, the pain shifts from the injured to some adjacent nerve ; there are often reflex contractions in the injured limb, and general nervous symptoms appear, as prostration, faintings, and globus hystericus. Bergson regards these phenomena as depending partly on a general disposition of the organism (the nervous temperament), and partly on a morbid (inflamed) condition of the nerve, which influences the whole nervous system. The treatment at first must be antiphlogistic, including general and local bleeding, baths, poultices, emollients, and sedatives. When