29 METAMORPHOSIS OF MATTER. Similar experiments to those which Bischoff and Yoit performed on dogs were made by Eankeupon himself, for the purpose of determining the quantities of carbon and nitrogen which were eliminated from his body in a state of rest. First, he endeavoured to make out whether it were possible, by any diet, so to regulate the elimination of matter from the body, that in twenty-four hours exactly so much nitrogen should be given off with the excrements as had been taken in with the food during that time. This equilibrium takes place when not only the consumption of nitrogen, but also the consumption of carbon, is entirely covered during the time of the experiment. In Pettenkofer's apparatus the quantity of expired carbon, as determined on a day in which the above-mentioned equilibrium was established, amounted to 207 grammes in twenty-four hours. To attain the equilibrium between food and elimination, it is not requisite that there should exist an invariable proportion between the nitrogen and carbon of the food. Insufficient food may contain too little carbon or too little nitrogen. In this case more nitrogen is eliminated than has been taken. An addition of fat to the food diminishes the elimination of nitrogen. Some experiments were made for the purpose of determining the changes which take place when the diet is varied. First, the influence of fasting was tested. The experiments were commenced twenty-four hours after the last meal had been taken. They were continued for twenty-four hours, during which time the experi- menter kept himself as quiet as possible. It was found that, for an average bodily weight of 71*25 kilogrammes, q-oi grammes nitrogen and 184/85 grammes carbon, on the average, were eliminated; or, for 1 kilogramme, "126 gramme nitrogen and 2*59 grammes carbon. The average proportion between the eliminated nitrogen and carbon during fasting was 1 : 20-5. The elimination of nitrogen decreased more rapidly, as compared with the elimination of carbon, during fasting, than when mixed diet was taken. Meat diet.—In several experiments large quantities of meat were taken; nevertheless, a decrease in the weight of the body was each time observed under the use of this unmixed diet. The'quantity of meat which can be digested is not sufficient to produce the entire quantity of carbon required in the act of respiration. That a pure albuminous diet is not sufficient for the maintenance of the human body was also shown by the fact that, when the amount of meat, theoretically required for its maintenance, was actually taken, considerable dyspepsia was produced. It is of some importance, as regards the knowledge of digestion, to be aware that the same quantity of meat is not so well digested when given at once as when divided between several times. Some experiments were also made on the influence of non-nitrogenous diet. It was found that by an average bodily weight of 72-57 kilo- grammes 2775 grammes of carbon and •1124 gramme of nitrogen were given off for each kilogramme in twenty-four hours. The proportion between nitrogen and carbon was 1 : 2474.