313 STONE. " Let it not be imagined from these remarks, that any one can deprecate more strongly than myself the making of an incision in the prostate more deeply5than the size of the stone demands; but I am very certain that it is safer to extend the incision, when the stone cannot be extracted without exerting violence, than to inflict the injury which such a pro- ceeding necessarily involves. The advocacy of small internal incisions by Scarpa^ who laid down as an axiom that an incision of five lines into the prostate, with dilatation, sufficed for the extraction of a stone of more than ordinary size, and by Sir B. Brodie, in his admirable lectures, as the sole or chief means of preventing urinary infiltration, has greatly influ- enced professional opinion on this subject. And I believe the effect may have gone beyond the intention of its authors ; since the force with which this particular source of danger has been insisted on by almost all subse- quent writers, has led many to regard it as the only, or at least the main, evil to be feared in the operation; and thus, perhaps, has indirectly occa- sioned the oversight of danger in the opposite direction. I wish here to point out that in shunning Scylla we may encounter Charybdis, and that a great obstacle to successful lithotomy lies on either side of our path, and not on one side only ; that we must preserve the neck of the bladder equally from too deep an incision on the one hand, and from the mecha- nical injury necessitated by one which is too limited, on the other. I fortify my position by reference to the significant fact, that the most successful operators have been those, who advocated sufficient incision as less dangerous than violent extraction. "At the same time it is always to be remembered, that the neck of the bladder is susceptible of dilatation to a very considerable extent, if only it be gradually exerted. It yields first to the pressure of the finger as it passes through immediately after the knife ; secondly, it dilates further in the act of sliding in the forceps upon the finger ; and lastly, it gives way still more when the forceps is withdrawn containing a stone between the blades, especially if it be a large one. This, its susceptibility of becoming dilated, is of the utmost value to the lithotomist. Indeed, if it did not exist, and largely too, none but small stones could be withdrawn through any incision limited to the prostate only. But in order to take advantage of it, the dilatation must be made slowly and gently. If done hastily, harshly, and forcibly, it is not dilatation which has been accom- plished, but rupture. And by 'rupture,' I do not mean the mere en- largement of the wound in the prostate and neck of the bladder, which probably is often legitimately occasioned, but the rupture of the sur- rounding cellular connexions with the numerous veins and the capillary network which traverse them—results of an extremely dangerous cha- racter. In this way inflammation of the cellular tissue, pelvic abscess, or phlebitis may be set up: suppuration is produced in a situation where the pus finds its way to the peritoneum, and not to the surface ; and when this state of things exists, a deep incision would prove a safeguard, rather than-the contrary, by affording exit to the confined matter. It is wholly impossible, then, to overrate the importance of slowly and gently dilating the neck of the bladder and the incisions which have been already suffi- ciently made, and giving abundance of time in the act of introducing the forceps and especially in that of withdrawing the stone. If there be any