UKI'OKT OX SUliOKKV. " i. By mechanical violence inflicted in the removal of the stone, espe- cially when the opening is of insnflicicnt size. "The majority of authors affirm that infiltration of urine is (he most common cause of death—a statement that I venture not only to call in question, hut to regard as the source of serious error in practice. Infiltration of urine is one of the causes of suppuration and destructive inflammation of the peri-vesical cellular tissue; but it is by no means the universal one. The doctrine based on this belief is, as follows—If the internal incision passes beyond the limit of the prostate in any direction, so as to open up the cellular interspaces behind the deep fascia, urine is almost certain to find its way into them ; and, if it does so, fatal inflam- mation will result: in order, therefore, to avoid this danger, the internal incisions must be extremely limited. But, sound as the principle is, to keep the internal incision strictly within the prostate in adult patients, in practice,I am satisfied, that the desire to limit it has been carried to an extreme degree ; and that another and not less serious danger of arousing inflammation of the same cellular tissue has by this very means been in- creased—I refer to the danger, 'which attends an attempt to drag the calculus through an opening of insufficient size. From what I have seen of the practice of lithotomy in various hands, in town, in the country, and abroad, I am persuaded, that insufficient internal incisions are equally dangerous with those which are too free; and that the tendency of the present day is toward the former extreme. The purely anatomical view of the subject appears now to be in the ascendant. The vital attributes and dispositions of the organs involved are'not sufficiently regarded. The student is taught to fear beyond all things an approach of the knife to the peripheral limit of the prostate; and in overdread of cutting it, he barely divides the prostate at all. Hence the no less dangerous injury which results from violence inflicted by the forceps and by the stone upon the neck of the bladder, and from the powerful traction upon it, which injures, often irreparably, the loose cellular connections in which the viscusis imbedded—connections which are delicate in structure and loosely applied, for the purpose of permitting free extension of its parietes to the varying condition of size, which its function as a reservoir of urine de- mands. Destructive inflammation of these delicate structures is easily produced by the forcible dilatation and the dragging downwards of the neck of the bladder, which insufficient incisions render necessary. In- flammation once extending through these structures rapidly invades the peritoneum, which, very probably, is more frequently implicated in this manner, than by any other cause. " In connexion with this subject there is a very significant fact,—that -while it is certain that the boundaries of the prostate are almost invariably overstepped by the knife in children, infiltration of urine very rarely occurs in their cases. Happily also, infiltration does not necessarily follow such incisions in the adult; but they render it more likely to occur. That the prostate has often been completely divided with impunity for the removal of large stones is certain; and the risk incurred from that cause is un- questionably serious. Danger is always great in a ratio proportioned to the size of the calculus; but this arises quite as much from the violence inflicted in removing it, as from the depth of the incisions employed.