464 REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. were rigid ; the dependent parts of the surface exhibited lividity. The cerebral veins and sinuses were distended with fluid blood, and the surface of the hemispheres exhibited unusual and minute venous injection; the intergyral spaces contained opalescent, yellowish effusion. " The cerebral substance was everywhere loose, soft, and highly dotted with blood." The ventricles were not distended; their lining membrane was softened, and the choroid plexuses highly injected. Anteriorly, the lungs appeared natural, but posteriorly the pulmonary substance was gorged with blood and friable, and sank in water. The bronchial tubes contained frothy, blood-coloured fluid, their mucous membrane being pink coloured, but otherwise normal. The abdominal organs exhibited nothing remarkable, excepting congestion of the mucous membrane of the cardiac end of the stomach. The author remarks that in the first few hours of the period of obser- vation, the co7idition of the patient was that of depression approaching extinction of all the functions of life, manifested in the coldness and dryness of the surface, complete suspension of the urinary (no urine was passed, and on passing the catheter the bladder was found to be empty) and other excretions. At length, " after all the chloroform had been removed by respiration, violent reaction set in, which became so intense in the brain as to destroy its activity, though not until all the secreting organs had not only resumed their functions, but had discharged them in an excessive degree." Phaser; Mackenzie.—Case of Poisoning ly Aniline. Med. Times, March 8th. George L—, ast. 16, was brought to the I^ondon Hospital in the fol- lowing condition:—The general surface was pallid, the lips, mucous membranes of the mouth, and nails, of a deep-purple colour; the pulse was slow and almost imperceptible, and the impulse of the heart feeble. He appeared insensible, but was able to complain of pain and swimming in the head. Under a treatment consisting of the application of external warmth and the administration of brandy and ether the patient gradually improved. Knaggs.— Case of Poisoning hy Aniline. Med. Gaz., June ;th. James K—, ajt. 39, inhaled a quantity of aniline vapour in conse- quence of the accidental breaking of a carboy containing that liquid. About an- hour after this occurrence he became affected with giddiness and weakness, with sweating. About four hours later he was obliged to go to bed, and after the lapse of eleven hours Mr. Knaggs was sent for, when his condition was as follows :—The whole surface of the body, especially the lips and visible mucous membranes, were blue; the breathing was gasping. He was perfectly sensible, and able to describe the accident and to complain of pain in the head and chest. The pulse was small and irregular. Two ounces of brandy were given imme- diately, and cold affusions were applied externally, followed by sinapisms. Subsequently an ounce aud a halt of brandy were given every fifteen minutes, and a draught with ammonia and chloric ether in the intervals. Ammonia was also inhaled every third or fourth inspiration. Tins plan was kept in operation for several hours until the symptoms disappeared.