PHARYNX. 297 the inner angle of the orbit, carried down the side of the nose and through the upper lip in the middle line, so as to'separate the corresponding side of the nose. Section of the base of the ascending process and of the inner wall of the orbit, at the same level as the inferior angle of that cavity, by means of the chain-saw and chisel, or by the latter instrument alone. 4. Division of the pterygopalatine articulation.—Section of both hard and soft parts with a chisel, which should be twenty centimetres long, and have a cutting edge, twenty-five millimetres broad. It should be applied directly behind the last molar tooth. 5. Division of the union between the two upper jaws.—Transverse incision, separating the soft from the hard palate on the side which cor- responds to the upper jaw about to be displaced ; removal of the first incisor tooth on the same side ; section of the hard palate along the side of the median raphe by means of the chain-saw. The bony attachments having been divided, a pair of flat and strong forceps is introduced between the two portions of the hard palate; the two upper jaws are then readily separated by slowly opening the forceps. The upper jaw, together with the external soft parts to which it adheres, is carried obliquely upwards and outwards towards the temporal fossa, so as to exercise no injurious pressure on the eye. Thus the incisor teeth of the two upper jaws may be separated to the extent of ten centimetres (nearly four inches). At its deeper part, further space might, be gained by removing the vomer and cutting through the base of the pterygoid process. When the polypus has been removed, the parts may be readily re- placed and kept in position by sutures passed through both the hard and soft parts. Such an operation maybe performed in six minutes on the subject. In the worst forms of naso-pharyngeal polypus, when the x-oots of the tumour pass in every direction, such an operation might be practised on both sides of the face. Professor Sedillot proposes a plan resembling that of Nelaton, except that he carefully preserves the periosteum (' Gaz. de Strasb.,' 1862, 2; and Schmidt's ' Jahrb.,' cxv, 233). M. Demarquay removed the nasal process of the upper jaw and the whole external wall of the antrum ; the periosteum had been carefully dissected back. The polypus was extracted and the wound closed; the bone reformed. ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1862, p. 554.) Dr. Opitz, general review of recent essays on the treatment of naso- pharyngeal polypi (Schmidt's 'Jahrb.,' cxv, 219): Prof. Bryk, cases treated by the galvano-caustic ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1862, p. 223, &c). In one of these cases rhinoscopic examination was of use. Nares. Dr. Macnamara on epistaxis ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' xxxiii, 28): Dr. Voltolini, 'Rhinoscopy and Pharyngoscopy,' pp. 44 (Breslau, Goso- horsky) : Dr. Semeledcr, 'Rhinoscopy and its Value in Medical Practice,' 8vo, p. 66, (Leipzig, Engelmann). PALATE—PIIAUYNX—(ESOPHAGUS. M. Nelaton, clinical lecture on a tumour of the fauces ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 117).—" I intend to speak to you about au affection of the isthmus