171 SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. negative pole on the surface of the tumour. The current is to be passed for fifteen to twenty minutes. The negative pole must not be introduced into the sac, because alkali accumulates there and renders the blood more fluid. Faradisation may be employed for the cure of hydrocele, care being taken to introduce the points of the needles actually into the fluid. In opacities of the cornea it is also a valuable remedy, the negative pole being applied to the closed eye, while a moist conductor connected with the posi- tive pole is held in one hand. The duration of the treatment will be from one to three months, the cm-rent being passed for fifteen minutes three or four times a week. Absorption of rheumatic effusions may be readily in- duced by the same means, especially if they are seated in the skin, cellular tissue, and muscles. Dry conductors should be used except when the face is affected. If muscular contractions are present faradisation of the skin and of the antagonists of the contracted muscles, with simultaneous gal- vanisation of the latter is of great benefit. Certain glandular tumours may be much diminished in the same way, either faradisation or galvanisa- tion being employed. Unhealthy ulcers may by the same means be stimu- lated very advantageously, and brought into a more healthy state. If a single pair of elements (zinc and silver) be used, the silver is to be applied to the ulcer. In cases of suppressed or defective secretion faradisation is of much service, and also in amenorrhoea of a torpid character. In palsy from apoplectic extravasation faradisation is of use if the muscles are flaccid, or if they are tonically contracted galvanisation. In paralysis from disease of the spinal cord galvanisation frequently proves very beneficial, especially when spasms are associated with the paralytic symptoms. In paralysis of the muscles of the eye, if there be not central disease, faradisation may be of service, and the same is true in cases of hysterical aphonia, and also in some forms of club-foot, where the deformity is caused by paralysis of the muscles on the front of the leg. Paralysis of the bladder and noc- turnal incontinence of urine may be remedied by faradisation, a catheter connected with the positive pole being introduced. In rheumatic and simple hyperesthesia and neuralgia, repeated faradisation is often effective. It is also useful in cases of inertia uteri with haemorrhage. Daxxecy.—Bullet, de Therapeut., Dec. 1861. Edin. Med. J., April. Finds that many persons who are nauseated by 01. Morrh'., and reject it, can retain it if they take immediately afterwards eight to ten grains of calcined magnesia in water. Schlockow —On some of the Effects of Sulphate of Quinine. Stud, d Fhysiolog. Instit. zu Breslau, p. 163, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol "3. P- 121. Schlockow found that the heart's action in frogs was very soon slowed and at last arrested in diastole, and that the tissue comparatively soon lost its irritability. The respiration also becomes irregular and intermittinjr and the locomotive movements tottering and unsteady. The cornea also loses its sensibility In rabbits also the locomotive actions become im- paired, the hinder limbs arc paralysed, sensation is weakened in all the