ItlCi'OKT ON MIDWIPBEYj ETC. 8G0 forceps in most cases at a direct traction, but in some cases also to rectify the position. In one patient the forceps were employed in nine out of twelve labours, in consequence of the foetal head failing to make the necessary turn in the pelvis. He almost never used ergot of rye in midwifery practice. The greasing of the forceps previous to intro- duction he considers unnecessary. TURNING. Hildebhandt.—On Turning ivith the Head foremost. Konigsberg. Med. Jabrb., 1861, p. 1. Cases related are in which turning with the head foremost was effected in three different ways—1, by internal manipulation; 2, Wigand's method, by external manipulation ; 3, by placing the patient on the side which corresponds to the head of the child, the uterus resting on a firm cushion. Concerning the operation in general, the conclusions of the author are as follows :—Eespecting all the methods of operating in question, certain conditions must be present in order to render them admissible, abnormal condition of the pelvis, or, at all events, such a condition as is not incompatible with extraction of a living child by the forceps ; mobility of the foetus, both as a whole and as regards its several parts ; near proximity of the head to the os uteri; absence of circumstances, rendering immediate delivery necessary. If the operation by internal manipulation be adopted, the os must be fully dilated. An arm presentation or prolapsus of the funis is contra- indicative but, as proved by one of the cases related, prolapsus of the funis may occur during the operation without necessitating recourse to podalic version. The head must be guided, if possible, into an oblique diameter of the pelvis, with the occiput forward. Presence of regular pains always facilitate the operation. External turning is more gene- rally applicable, as it can be had recourse to earber in the progress of the case, and is less painful. Pressure is made on the breech and on the head in opposite directions, the pressure being occasionally varied in direction, according to circumstances. A relaxed, mobile, non-irritable condition of the uterine walls essential. To fix the head in its proper position, the rupture of the membranes is the most effectual method. The latter of the three methods is applicable when the head is near the os, or has been brought near to it by internal or external manipulation ; where also, owing to absence of pains, it is desirable to fix the head in a certain position, and here the external continuous pressure has been found of essential assistance. McClintock, Dr.—On Taming in cases of Disproportion. Eep. of Obstetrical Society of London, Lancet, Sep. 1.3th, 1862. This paper embodies the results of seventeen cases which came under the care of the author in the Dublin Lying-in Hospital. In each of them turning had been performed, nt various periods after the com- mencement of labour, on account of disproportion between the head and pelvis. In none of these cases was there any considerable deformity of the pelvis, though the obstetric histories of the women clearly showed that there must have been some slight narrowing of the superior strait.