NERYOIS SYSTEM. 75 and more frequent, and the average lateral pressure in the arteries dimi- nished. In both, therefore, the effective power of the heart is lowered. Repeated subjection of a limb in frogs to interrupted cm-rents renders that limb more sensitive to the action of the poison than the other which is in its natural state. Beau.—J. de Med. et de Chir. Pratiq., vol. xxxiii. p. 350. Mentions the good effects of valerian baths in hysteria and various nervous disorders. An infusion made with about lib. of the root to Ov. of Water is added to the bath, and the remains of the root also enclosed in a bag- Vollant.—J. de Med. et de Chir. Pratiq. vol. xxxiii. p. 361. Affirms that hooping-cough in its spasmodic period is positively arrested and cured in three or four days by powdered belladonna root. The dose is one-fifth of a grain, given at first once, then twice, then four times a-day, and so on until the paroxysms begin to subside, when it is given at much longer intervals. The powder of the leaves has little efficacy. Wunderlich.—On a Case of Spontaneous Tetanus. Archiv. d. Heil- kiinde, 1861, No. 6. Med. T. and Gaz. The case terminated fatally in four days. No signs of inflammation, properly so-called, were foiuid on examination, but at various points of the cord the microscope detected the highest degree of the new formation of connective substance described by Rokitansky. The evening before his death the temperature suddenly rose, and shortly before that event attained the height of 34°7 R. (1080 F.); at death it was 35°8 R. (112°55 F.), the highest ever observed. After all signs of life had ceased it continued to rise for nearly an hour, and attained ^6°z^ R. (ii3°56 F.). The pulse also rose to 180 shortly before death. Gaspero.—Gaz. Med. Prov. Venet. London Med. Rev., April. Narrates some cases of severe convulsions which were successfully treated by very large doses of aconite. In one case 730 grains of the extract were taken on the first, and on the second day half as much again, after which the convulsions disappeared, and a complete recovery took place. Hauohton, S., Rev.—On the Use of Nicotine in Tetanus, and in Cases of Poisoning by Strychnia. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Aug. 1862. Haughton relates five cases (one in a horse) where nicotine was given or infusion of tobacco. In all the cases it appeared to be beneficial, three recovered. The dose of nicotine was n\ .}-ij. three to six times a-day. The effects were, lowering of the pulse, in one case from 130 to 88, in another it caused an increase of ten beats ; immediate relaxation of the spasm of the muscles of expression, respiration, deglutition,those of the Lack and of the abdomen ; cessation of delirium and feeling of relief from agonizing pain; profuse sweating with an intolerable odour of snuff; a tendency to