ItEPOET ON MIDWJ1EEY, ETC. 300 tion over and over again, and wait until the foetus is expelled by the natural action of the uterus. Simpson, Professor.—Decapitation and use of the Cephalotribe in Cross-birth. Ed. Med. Journ., Sept., 1862. The patient had been in labour for some time; the child presented transversely, one arm, the right, outside, the vagina, and the woman much exhausted; the head was high up towards the right ilium, the cord prolapsed and pulseless ; the uterus firmly contracted around the foetus, so as to render introduction of hand somewhat difficult, and turning almost impossible. The promontory of the sacrum projected a little more than natural. It was decided that the best way to deliver would be to decapitate first. Eamsbotham's sharp hook could not be intro- duced, as the brim did not give sufficient room to turn it. A blunt hook was then passed round the neck, and the neck divided from below by strong scissors, the body being at the same time pulled down by the projecting arm. The body was easily removed, but the arm and scapula broke away first. To extract the head the hook was now placed in the mouth, but the jaw broke. The cephalotribe was now employed along the cheek and temples, and, after compressing the blades to some extent by means of the screw, so as to catch firmly and compress the head aud evacuate some of its contents, the extraction was effected. The instru- ment employed was that of Scanzoni. The author believes that, in cases of transverse presentation, when the waters have long escaped, and the uterus has become closely contracted around a dead foetus, the delivery can be more safely and easily accomplished by decapitating and diminish- ing the size of the foetus than by attempting the, in such cases, always difficult, and sometimes hazardous, operation of podalic version. Bahsbothah, Dr.—Clinical Midwifery. Med. Times and Graz., vol.ii, 1862. The series of cases in which the operation of craniotomy was per- formed by the author during the five years 1840 to 1844 are here related (pp. 5, 80, 190, 249) ; they were thirty-two in all, besides some other cases complicated with haemorrhage and placenta praevia (these having been related in the other series). The crotchet was used in all these cases, an instrument the author always uses in preference to the craniotomy forceps. In two of the cases the face presented ; two were complicated with convulsions ; in oue the head and a foot presented at the pelvic brim ; one was the first child of twins ; in one the cause of delay was pelvic tumour; in two there was hydrocephalus; in one a slough took place from long-continued pressure, contracting the vagina, the bladder being uninjured ; in two fistulous orifices occurred in the neck of the bladder, both foetuses being highly putrid ; only one woman died—one of the cases of hydrocephalus, she had been in labour between four and five days, and was moribund when delivered. Harlow, Dr.—A new Instrument for Craniotomy. Am. J. of Med. Sc., Jan., 1862, p. 281. In this instrument, termed by the author the " cranio diaclast, the peculiarity is in that portion used for perforating the head. This con-