FEYER ACCOMPANYING SURGICAL AFFECTIONS. 195 sooner will death occur. It must now be shown that metastatic inflam- mations are connected with exacerbations of the fever or rigors. In sixteen cases of pyaemia which have been carefully watched during the last eighteen montlis, fourteen ended in death, two in recovery ; five times there were metastatic inflammations of the joints, and twice of the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue. As these cases could be followed with the greatest accuracy, it was easy to show that when the inflammation was in process of evolution the fever always increased, and that not unfrequently a distinct attack, with rigor, was excited. The same thing is true of both external and internal inflammations ; often, indeed, we may diagnose metas- tatic abscesses in the lungs by the very absence of any other cause for the fresh rigors. The fever.—The evening exacerbations are distinctly marked, so that the curves representing the course of the fever are essentially similar to those which are obtained from cases of extensive suppuration with fever, but without rigors or pyaemia 5 the type is that of a remittent or continued remittent. Occasionally, though rarely, there ate distinct intermissions, the temperature becoming normal, the pulse quiet and less rapid; such intermissions improve the prognosis, whilst, on the other hand, a normal or unnaturally low temperature is often a very bad sign when the pulse continues extremely rapid. Such a combination not unfrequently occurs on the approach of death. Pycemia with emboli.—As a general rule, a secondary fever passes into the remittent type of pysemic fever gradually, or with an intercurrent exacerbation. Rarely is the patient perfectly free from fever when pyaemia occurs; when it does so happen, it is to some extent probable that it is caused by the sudden occurrence of embolism. Thus, in the following case, a rather decrepit woman of about fifty had been totally free from fever from the seventh to the sixteenth day after a primary amputation of the arm, attended by secondary suppuration on the inner side of the stump (temperature normal, pulse 72 to 96) ; she was then suddenly attacked with a rigor, and sank in four days from the effects of a double pleuro-pneumonia. The post-mortem examination showed on both sides of the chest pleuritis and in both lungs innumerable abscesses, with necrosis of the pleura; no thrombosis was found, but unfortunately the humerus was not examined. The author considers it very probable, from the course, that embolism was the cause of the chest disease in this case. Metastatic inflammations, when the wound has been nearly healed, or when there have been old osseous suppurations, are probably always caused by thromboses and emboli; and death results from the disease in the lungs, which they excite, and not from any poisoning of the blood. In four only out of the fourteen cases could emboli be found in the lungs. Localizing of the metastatic inflammation.—In the remaining ten cases the metastases to internal organs were thus distributed—eight times to the lung, once to the spleen, and once to the kidney; a proportion which, he believes, is pretty near the average. He is no follower of the theory of capillary emboli, yet he must admit that there is a certain relation between the position of the primary suppuration and the seat of the metastases. Icterus very often occurs in the pyaemia which follows operations on the urinary organs; but though icterus is very common, he has only once