DISEASES 01'' WOMEN. S91 breaking them down the rectum was slightly wounded. Death from shock six hours afterwards. In Case 10 the patient had suffered upwards of two years, and had been ineffectually tapped. The tumour was large, chiefly solid; there was dropsy of the feet, legs, and abdominal walls; quick pulse, and great emaciation. A moderate-sized incision was made; the adhesions were extensive and firm, the pelvic adhesions were most formidable. There was disease of the peritoneum. The patient died three days after. Case n.—The patient had suffered upwards of two years. Tapping was attempted, but only a little blood escaped. Tumour large, almost entirely solid. There were adhesions to the small intestines, the omentum, and abdominal walls. Pedicle of large size, and clamp was used to secure it. Recovery took place uninterruptedly, notwithstanding great irritation and sloughing of the large pedicle. Case 12.—Patient, ast. 58, was first tapped, and pressure applied. Two cysts were emptied, but much solid matter still remained. The operation subsequently performed. The tumour was adherent to the omentum and abdominal walls. The pedicle was slight, and after being tied with a silk ligature the pedicle and the ligature were cut off as short as possible and dropped into the abdomen. The wound was closed entirely, and healed by the first intention. Perfect recovery. The latter was the second case in which the author has returned the pedicle and ligature into the abdomen. Cases of Ovariotomy. Brit. Med. Journ., June 28th, 1862. Three cases are related. The first was a case of three years' duration, and the patient had been tapped five times after evacuation of several quarts of puriform fluid; the sac was found so adherent that the extraction could not be performed. The patient died the following day. In the second case the operation was a long one, and a good deal of manipulation, tying of vessels, &c.,had to be performed. Recovery took place. Two other cases are alluded to, in one of which the tumour proved to be not ovarian, but extra-uterine. It was removed by the dcraseur. In the other case an operation by Mr. Minshull (in 1863). In both the patients recovered. Pollock, Geo.—Abortion after Tapping an Ovarian Cyst; Ovariotomy five months afterivards, when the Uterus was found to contain a second dead Foetus; fatal result. Lancet, Sept. 6th, 1862. The history of the case dated from nine months before, when swelling, beginning on the left side of the abdomen, rapidly progressed. Pour months after, she was tapped and aborted. Six weeks ago she was tapped a second time, the distension having again become very considerable. Again it occurred, and ovariotomy was resolved on. The tumour was found to be multilocular, with one large cyst in front. After removing the tumour and tying the pedicle, what was considered to be another cyst belonging to the other ovary appeared. This was tapped, and found to be the gravid uterus, containing a dead foetus. The wound in the uterus was closed with silver sutures, and the fcetus left. In the evening the patient aborted, and died the next evening. It was considered as