SECRETORY SYSTEM. 153 cases gained somewhat in weight. All that can be said for the proceed- ing is, that it is vastly agreeable to the patient, and is not positively injurious. Kunkler E. A.—Case of Diabetes exhibiting Remarkable Phenomena. * L'Union Med., July 29th, 1861. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1862. The patient, ait. 26, had had diabetes seven months, and in spite of animal diet and various remedies, got worse. There were several tender points at the upper part of the dorsal region of the spine, which disap- peared on cupping, the disease, however, being unchanged. Immediately after a blister to the neck, the presence of sugar and the unusual excre- tion of the urine ceased as if by enchantment. By a repetition of the blisters, the disease permanently disappeared, in spite of a varied diet. The reporter refers to other cases where the disease coexisted with various morbid conditions of the spinal cord or cerebellum. Pavy, F. W., M.D.—Almond Food as a Substitute for Bread in Diabetes. Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. viii. The author finds that ground almond powder made into biscuits, rusks, and bread with eggs, forms a very good substitute for ordinary bread. The almond contains six per ' cent, of sugar and three of gum, which are easily separated by water. Patients taking this food experience no increase in the quantity and specific gravity of the urine over that which occurred under a strictly animal regimen. The maker is Mr. Hill, 60, Bishopsgate Street, London. Pavy refers to one case as bearing on the pathology of diabetes, where a certain amount of vegetable food (potatoes, bread, beer) could be taken without causing the urine to be saccharine, but if this was exceeded sugar appeared. A certain amount only of saccharine matter could be assimilated. Roberts, W.—On Qualitative and Quantitative Sugar-Testing in the Urine. Lancet, May 17th, 24th. Roberts draws abroad distinction between the existence of sugar in the urine in proportions sensible to direct testing, and its existence in such minute quantity that elaborate analytical processes are required for its detection. He is much inclined to believe that in the latter case the sngar detected is really an educt of the analysis, and produced by conversion of some amyloid extractive. The growth of torulas, Moore's test, and the fermentation test, are considered as either unreliable, or not sufficiently delicate. Moore's test does not answer well with a less quantity of sugar than one-and-a-half grain to |j ; moreover, if the liquor potassa) be con- taminated with lead, which it easily extracts from ordinary white glass, the test causes a considerable darkening with albuminous urines, though they contain no sugar. Folding's copper solution is the test he prefers, con- sisting of sulphate of copper, gr. viij ; tartrate of potash, 5SS; liquor potassae, 3j. When the natural ingredients of the urine are present only in small quantity, the reaction by the reduction of the copper to the yellow or red suboxide is very distinct and delicate, but when the reverse