REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 490 proposes that the number of beds should be reduced to 250, a number merely sufficient for clinical instruction and for the reception of urgent cases; that the wards should not be allowed to hold more than two beds; that they should be separated from each other by freely ventilated spaces; and that, for the more severe operations, wards containing only three or four beds should be specially reserved, not communicating in any way with the rest of the hospital. Larkey.— On the Hygiene of the Military Hospitals of France. Paris, 8vo, pp. 64. The author holds that the smaller the wards of an hospital, and the fewer beds each ward contains, the better for the health of the inmates. The space allotted to each individual should not be less than 1000 cubic feet, the intervals between the beds not less than three feet, and about twelve feet between each range of beds. He recommends that the wards should be periodically emptied and lime-washed every year or six months, that they should be swept every morning immediately before the morning yisit, and that the floors should be so constructed as to admit of being kept clean without scouring. Curtains have already been discarded in the military hospitals. He further strongly insists on the importance of a substantial and restorative diet, as constituting, along with a plentiful supply of air, the main cause of the comparatively favorable results of great surgical operations in London. Of these improvements, he regards the multiplication, as opposed to the enlargement, of hospitals, and the diminution of the number of beds which each contains, as most important. DISINFECTION. Letheby and Haywood.—On the application of Charcoal to the Venti- lation of Sewers. Chem. News, vol. viii, p. 104. For the purpose of determining whether the well-known property of dry charcoal, of absorbing and oxidizing the volatile products of putre- faction, could be usefully applied to the disinfection of the air of sewers, a number of "air-filters," each consisting of a series of horizontal trays charged with small fragments of wood charcoal, were fixed in 104 ven- tilating shafts of sewers in the city of London. The results of the experiment were as follows:—1. The deodorizing power of the charcoal was proved to be complete. It was found that the fragments, after long use, not only contained alkaline nitrates, but were impregnated with fetid nitrogenous compounds, which, however, could not be separated. 2. The duration of the power of deodorization of one charge of charcoal was insufficiently tested, but it was found that the substance lost much of its efficacy when saturated with water, so that, in consequence of the constant moisture of the sewer atmosphere, it became useless long before its deodorizing power had become exhausted. .3. The question of effect of the application of charcoal on the general ventilation of the sewers is one upon which the authors "are unable to pronounce a very positive opinion." But they have reason to believe " that the danger to the work- men in the sewers has not been materially increased." Experiments with the anemometer gave no indication that any movement of air took place through the «' filters." No evidence could be obtained of increase of