EMBOLISM. 251 cold, violet, and insensible; in a single night the disease had rapidly spread over the greater part of the foot under the form of humid gan- grene. On the 13th the sphacelus extended over the whole of the foot and the lower fourth of the leg: the temperature was— In the popliteal space, on the left side 34:6° right side 34*8° Difference=—o*2° Inner side of the leg, on the left side 31 "8° „ right side 33-6° Difference =—r8° The gangrene spread no further: the patient died on the i^th. Post- mortem examination ; fatty degeneration of the muscles; bone of the extremities so soft, that even a bad scalpel pierces the condyles of the femur; anterior roots of the spinal nerves extremely soft. The abdo- minal aorta is obliterated at its bifurcation by a clot; the latter has pro- bably been detached from a coagulum, which was found in the left ven- tricle. Both common iliacs and both external iliacs as far as the origin of the epigastric are obliterated; the first inch and a half of the internal iliac on the right side is obliterated ; on the left side the same artery is closed to a much greater extent. On the right side, all the arteries of the lower extremity are small, yet permeable; on the left side the femoral is oblite- rated at the opening in the adductor magnus, the popliteal and the upper part of the three arteries of the leg are also obstructed. The clot in the aorta is probably of some standing, that in the popliteal of recent date. Broca has already shown that after ligature of the principal artery of an extremity, the temperature of the skin becomes elevated in the course of a few hours, and remains so for many days. He found the same increase in the heat to be produced by compression of the artery, and it is obvious that in the present case the increased temperature was produced in the same way. Gangrene occurs, when the arterial obliteration extends to such a degree upwards and downwards as to prevent the ordinary collateral circulation ; it very rarely happens, when only a limited part of the vessel is obstructed. In Norris's table of 204 cases of ligature of the femoral, there are 17 in which the operation was performed for other causes than aneurism, and among these there was not a single case of gangrene. In 20 cases of ligature for femoral and 6 for tibial aneurisms, such a result never oc- curred. Yet out of the 204 cases, there were 28 of gangrene; all, how- ever, occurred in cases of popliteal aneurism, and they form the frightful number of 18 per cent, of the total number of popliteal aneurisms treated by the method of Scarpa or of Hunter. Why, then, should the operation in this particular case be so often followed by gangrene ? Because the ligature is placed at a considerable distance from the tumour; because the artery, obliterated at the point of ligature, becomes again obliterated at the seat of the aneurism; and because the blood, which is carried to the. upper part of the popliteal by a first chain of anastomoses, is no longer propelled with sufficient force to overcome the obstacle presented by the second obliteration. The greater the distance of the ligature from the aneurism, the greater the tendency to gangrene ; in this respect the process of Scarpa is very much worse than that of John Hunter. When