GENERAL SYSTEM. 41 up of some local complication. Among the sequela?, Hillier especially notices pleurisy and pneumonia. The former especially may come on insidiously, and make considerable progress before its presence is suspected. Convulsions occasionally occur as a result of renal disease, hut are not so fatal in children as in adults. Out of seventeen cases noticed by West and Rilliet, thirteen recovered. Tubercular disease may be induced by scarlatina, but is more often the result of measles. In the way of treat- ment, besides the usual means, we may notice the following:—In one case tepid effusion, and in two the wet sheet was used with satisfactory results. In malignant cases, ammon. carb. is the best remedy. Leeches to the swollen throat have not proved useful. In the renal affection, as the fever subsides, benzoate of ammonia, digitalis, and diluents may be given. If convulsions occur, free venesection is to be practised, and blisters applied to the legs. In pleurisy or pneumonia calomel is to be administered in small frequently repeated doses. Edwards, C. J.—The Chlorine and Milk Treatment of Scarlet Fever and the Typhoid Fevers. Lancet, June 28th. Edwards does not bring forward these remedies as specifics, or as replacing antiphlogistic treatment if required during the earlier stages, but as possessing the important quality in themselves of at once destroying the putrid effluvia generated by, and thrown off from, the secreting surfaces of the stomach, alimentary canal, kidneys, lungs, and skin, and endowing the system with power to bear the progress of the disease. He recommends chloroform to be given with the chlorine, as producing great calmness and inclination to sleep. Milk he believes to be the most suitable diet, far less likely to cause dehrium than broths. In the beginning of the attack he invariably employs antiphlogistic measures, and stimulants and restora- tives only in the later periods. Ringer, S. M. B.—On the Temperature, Urea, Chloride of Sodium, and Urinary Water in Scarlet Fever, and on a Cycle in Disease and Health. Proceed, of Med.-Chir. Soc, vol. iv., No. 1. Med.-Chir. Transac, vol. xlv. Ringer examined thirty cases, some as late as the forty-fifth day of the disease. The temperature fell in most cases on the fifth, tenth, or fifteenth day. If it did not fall till the fifteenth or twentieth, there was a fall of variable intensity usually on each of the preceding fifth days. With each fall the state of the patient improved. The persistence of the lesions produced by the fever, as sore-throat, was attended with elevation of the temperature. A second elevation occurring after the fever on the twenty - second day or thereabouts, was due to Bright's disease, endocarditis, tu- berculosis, or chicken-pox, or some obscure condition. This subsequent elevation of the temperature always fell on a fifth day of its own, the existence of cycles being thus very apparent. Amorning fall of temperature is one of the earliest signs of improvement. The highest temperature occurred generally between 2 and 8 p.m. The urea is not increased during fever, and for many days after its decline is far below the normal amount. When Bright's disease is set up the urine in some cases is