170 11EPOKT ON PHAOX1CAL MEDICINE. mitting induction-currents passed through moist sponges applied to the skin, in the treatment of neuralgia, to the faradisation of the dry skin recommended by Duchenne. The current causes at first severe pain, which soon ceases, and on stopping the current the neuralgia has disappeared. It returns in some hours, but may be removed permanently by five to sixteen repetitions of the proceeding. Flies observed during the passage of constant galvanic currents that sensations were communicated from the nerves of one to those of the other side, and from the upper to the lower extremity. Remak confirms Froriep's observation, to the effect that in traumatic tetanus an inflammatory exudation in the form of a tubercle developes itself at the injured point of the nerve, and that similar tubercles are produced in a central direction on the larger nerve-trunks. Meyei cured permanently a case of epileptic paroxysms and constant quivering of the right forearm by faradisation, and also a case of vomiting after meals by the same proceeding applied to the vagus. Debout and Colson record cases of varus and valgus deformity of the feet restored by faradisation of the weakened muscles. Faro cured anteflexion and retroflexion of the uterus by faradisation, one j)ole being apjdied to the os. Beau has treated successfully in the same way inflammatory and hypertrophic affections of the cervix uteri, which had resisted cauterization. Holsbeck, Bitterlin, and Taylor, have treated amenorrhcea and dysmenorrhcea successfully by electricity. The latter used Pulvermacher's chain. Kobell has cured many cases of impotence in the male, both the anasstketic and hyperaesthetic forms, by electro-cutaneous irritation of the skin of the penis, combined with faradisation of the muscles of the perina3um. In cases where the hyperesthesia of the genital membrane is complicated with involuntary discharges, a constant current from a battery of fifteen to twenty Darnell's elements, is passed from the middle of the spinal column downwards to the sacrum for three or four minutes. Then the positive pole is placed on the perinamm, and the nega- tive on the glans ou the dorsum of the penis, and the current passed for about the same time. Finally the current is interrupted a few times. Of eighty-three cases of various kinds forty-five were cured. Schulz also uses the constant current from a Daniell's battery in such cases, and states-that it diminishes the excitability of the cord. Congenital nervous deaf-dumb- ness has been treated by Duchenne with faradisation with some amount of success. He says that if the first application of the current produces the sensation of taste or of noise in the ear, the deafness almost certainly is not the result of organic disease. Althaus, J.—On the Therapeutical Use of Electricity and Galvinism. Med. T. and Gaz., Aug. 30th, Sept. 13th. Althaus points out the different effects of the continuous and interrupted currents. Of the former he recommends cither Groves', Daniell's, or , Bunsen's, of the latter, Stohrer's, of Dresden. He thus describes the mode of producing coagulation of the blood in an aneurism, which is not accessible to the ligature. A steel needle covered with zinc, and connected with the positive pole of a pile of twenty pairs of Bunsen's, Groves, or Daniell's battery, fully charged, should be inserted in the centre of the sac, and the circuit be closed by placing a metallic plate connected with the