HEFOUT ON SUHGEUY. The object of this operation is to preserve, if possible, a useful hnud, and with this design it is, of course, advisable to meddle as little ns pos'sible with the tendons. J)r. DftDzel proposes a new method for this joint; it, however, strongly resembles that of Buchanan for the ankle. lie first makes a straight incision over the styloid process of the radius, carrying it an inch above and an inch below ; he then separates the supinator longus and extensors of the thumb, divides the radius with the chain saw and disarticulates ; the ulna is now turned out of the same wound and divided; finally the carpal bones are removed, so far as maybe necessary. Dr. Beck publishes the following case of excision of a piece of bone for anchylosis ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,'ii, 561): J. M—, aged twenty-two, wound of the left knee, followed by suppuration and anchylosis. Present state.—Knee flexed at almost a right angle; partial dislocation of the tibia backwards with rotation of the foot outwards; patella on the outer side of the condyle ; not the least trace of mobility. Operation : a straight incision was carried across the middle of the knee down to the bone, at each end of which an incision, an inch in length, was made, so that the wound was in this form I 1. The flaps having been turned back, the bone was sawn nearly through, and the remainder broken by flexing the limb, with the view of avoiding all risk of wounding the popliteal. A second section with the saw separated a wedge of bone, which was in front an inch and a half wide, behind half an inch. The limb was now extended, and sutures applied; finally the patient was put to bed, and the extremity fixed in a kind of Macintyre's splint. Ice was locally applied till the eighth day, then cold and ultimately tepid water. With the exception of some trifling attacks of diarrhcea, the convalescence was uninterrupted; in the ninth week, he left his bed. The final result was, that although the limb was almost five lines shorter, he could use it just as well as the other, for standing or walking; the knee was quite fixed. This makes the fourteenth case, in which this operation has been performed ; twelve were successful, two fatal. The author considers that the wedge of bone should be entirely formed by the femur, and that it is well not to place the limb in a too straight position, because for walking a very slightly flexed limb is better than one perfectly straight. Dr. Bauer has published a case ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,'ii, 644), in which a knee deformed and useless from diastasis of the lower epiphysis of the femur was treated with good success by excision. The patient, fourteen years of age, presented himself to Dr. Bauer with a great deformity of the left knee, which had all the characters of a marked genu valgum ; Dr. Bauer from the history and examination came to the con- clusion, that there had been a diastasis of the epiphysis some seven years earlier, to which the deformity owed its origin. On the 9th October, i860, excision was performed ; the tibia and femur were united by strong iron wire; for the integument silver-wire sutures were employed. The iron wire was removed on the twenty-Fixtb day. At the end of the second month, he was able to stand. On the 28th February, 1861, he was shown to the Pathological Society of New York, when the result appeared very satisfactory: the shortening amounted to a little more than two inches; the joint was very slightly movable, he could walk readily and without pain, when unaided,