EYE. 281 extent explained by the discovery of the two forms of inflammation which have been just described. ('Zeits. f. ration. Med.,' xv, 254, 1862). J. Z. Laurence on syphilitic corneitis ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 61): J. C. Wordsworth, on a case of perforating ulcer of the cornea, producing a fistulous opening into the anterior chamber and •partial collapse of the globe, cured by iridectomy ('Lancet,' i86i,ii, 328) : cases of staphyloma cornese under H. D. Noyes and Mr. Hulke (' Amer. Med. Times,' 1862, i, 264, 274; 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 128). A. Grosz, on the Egyptian military ophthalmia (' Wien. Med. Wochens.,' 1862, 53, 69): M. Richard on excision of the conjunctiva—tonsure conjonctivale ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 298). Iris. On gonorrhceal inflammation of the iris, by J. C. Wordsworth ('Oph. Hosp. Rep.,' iii, 301) and J. Rollet ('Researches on Syphilis,' Paris, 1861, p. 393).—The former author has had occasion to treat three cases of iritis in connexion with gonorrhoea; he had previously been a close observer of the practice of the London Ophthalmic Hospital for ten or twelve years, as well as of that of one of the largest general hospitals in London, and had failed to recognise a case of iritis which appeared dependent on gonorrhceal influence only, although he had frequently seen it in association with gonorrhoea and syphilis together. The latter author records two cases, and states that he has seen many more : he considers it to be closely connected with gonorrhceal rheumatism, in fact to form really a part of the latter affection, just as endocarditis does of the common rheumatism; in ten cases of gonorrhceal rheumatism, there will be at least one complicated with iritis. According to Rollet, the anterior layer of the iris, the so-called serous layer, is the ordinary seat of this affection : in many cases it becomes propagated to the posterior surface of the cornea. It commences with a zone-like congestion on the sclerotic, such as is almost always seen in iritis. Sometimes there are photophobia and laclirymatiou. The outer surface of the cornea preserves all its brilliancy, but the layer lining its inner surface becomes misty; at the same time, the aqueous humour seems more abundant, and the patient complains of a sen- sation of fulness in the eye. The iris becomes dull, the pupil con- tracted. In Mr. Wordsworth's cases, the disease was severe, witli a marked tendency to relapse and to recur. The subjective symptoms were intense, out of all proportion to the objective ; the pain was extreme, and resisted all treatment for a time. All the cases were attended by profuse lachrymation, and intolerance of light, beyond what is usually noticed in syphilitic or rheumatic cases. They peculiarly resented all attempts to dilate the pupil, which soon became contracted and fixed. In all, the cornea was decidedly involved, but the affection of the iris was the promi- nent feature of each case : and all required mercury for their cure, thou Mi unattended by much exudation or great vascularity of the iris itself; synechia posterior occurred in all. There does not appear to be any marked difference between gonorrhceal