DISEASES OF WOMEN. 379 large hematoceles, the rounded form of the tumour felt projecting above the pubis (as in a case related by the author), are also m favour of the views here put forth. The same difficulty involves the pathology of pelvic abscess, as to their intra- or extra-peritoneal seat. In the cases of hematocele now related the causes, so far as they could be made out, •were—coitus during menstruation, suppression of the menses by cold, and menstrual irregularity. In two cases the women suspected them- selves to be pregnant. The state of the blood effused varies. In one case related it was felt by the finger passed through an artificial opening in the condition of a firm clot, but at the lowest part was collected a small quantity of bloody fluid, of a syrupy consistence. In many cases the tumour is so small that it cannot be decided whether fluctuation is present or not. In the first case related there was most indistinct fluctuation at first, but it was made out just before and after evacuation of the cyst. The blood was syrup-like, and had the odour of slightly decom- posing flowers. In only one case was pus detected by the naked eye. After the cyst had been open a short time intense fetor was observed. In all the cases, after complete evacuation of the blood pus became mixed with the grumous discharge as the cyst was contracting; this pus had not a fetid odour. Pus mixed with blood may be obtained on opening some cases of hasmatocele where the disease is of old standing ; not otherwise. The author then relates in detail six cases which have come under his notice. In the first case, which he believes to have been probably intra-peritoneal, the attack came on from the patient taking cold during menstruation. The woman, ret. 28, was in a dying state for two days, and a large swelling was then evident in the abdomen. About a mouth after, the tumour was large, tender, and painful, and its size led to the belief that it was an ovarian cyst, into which hemorrhage had taken place. A few days later the abdomen was tapped, and 115 ounces of syrupy blood drawn off. Great improvement for a time followed, then a recrudescence, then a reopening of the aperture, and a discharging of much more bloody fluid, then rapid contraction of cyst, and improvement to such an extent that the patient left the hospital. In Case 2 the patient et. 21, became affected in consequence of injurious coitus during men- struation. Ten days afterwards there was found a hard, solid tumour in the left iliac region, reaching to a little above the umbilicus; there was great tenderness and grave constitutional disturbance. No recto- vaginal bulging noticed, the uterus pushed over to the left side. "When the abdomen became soft and easily handled, the facility with which the parietes could be depressed above the tumour was felt to be hostile to the supposition of its upper wall being formed of coherent intestines. A month after admission the tumour had nearly disappeared, and the uterus had recovered its natural position. Menstruation continued during the first fourteen days she was under observation, ceased for three days, then returned for four days. It was bright, not fetid; moderato in quantity. In cases 3 and 4, the position of the tumour was below and behind the uterus ; this organ was displaced upwards and forwards; hence these were cases of " retro-uterine" hematocele. This term, the author remarks, is very improperly applied to every case of