FUNCTIONS AND SECRETIONS OP THE LIVER. 11 with iooo grammesof meat only, and again during two days with meat and fat. On each of the first two days % i o grammes of bile were secreted, on the third day only 170 grammes, and on each of the last two clays again 210 grammes. But in other experiments, in which the dog was fed with larger quantities of meat, the addition of fat had not such marked influence. Schiff endeavoured to make out by experiments from which kind of blood the bile is secreted. He first tried to cut off all arterial supply of blood to the liver. Tor this purpose he found it necessary to tie the coeliac axis and the inferior diaphragmatic artery. In performing this operation he entered at the side of the vertebral column, behind the peri- toneum. The common bile-duct was also tied ; and the gall-bladder was opened and emptied, and a tube was fixed to it. A little time after the operation bright-yellow bile began to flow from the tube. This contrasted in colour with the green bile which had been, previously found in the gall- bladder, and was, in consequence, thought by Schiff to be newly secreted. An accurately weighed piece of sponge was attached to the opening of the tube, and the quantity of secreted bile thus determined. Schiff concludes that, after all supply of arterial blood has been cut off from the liver, it still continues to secrete bile, and that the quantity of bile thus secreted, compared with the normal quantity which Bidder and Schmidt have found for cats, does not show any diminution. These experiments were made on dogs and cats. In the next series of experiments the venous supply was cut off. To effect this, Schiff isolated the artery from the lesser omentum, and tied the rest, the common bile-duct included, with a single ligature. The veins .were also separately tied. Schiff does not think that the injury to the nerves, which were tied along with the vessels, could have had in- fluence on the secretion of the bile in the short time during which the experiment lasted. A number of cats which had been operated upon in the above way died from within forty minutes to an hour and a half after the operation. Previous to their death they lay in a drowsy state. Not a drop of bile escaped from the tube inserted into their emptied gall-bladder. Similar experiments on rabbits were performed, and yielded the same results. To test the direct effect of the operation, all the parts of it were performed on a cat, with the exception of the tying of the ligature. The animal remained quite lively, and bright-yellow bile dropped from the tube. An hour and a half after the operation the ligature was drawn tight, and scarcely had twelve minutes elapsed when the cat fell down comatose. Death occurred at the end of fifty-five minutes, and no bile had been secreted during that time. Schiff'believes that it is anaemia of the liver which so rapidly causes ooma and death, and suggests that the constituents of the bile thus retained in the blood may possibly act as a violent poison in such cases. A further series of experiments were performed for the purpose of determining the effects of gradual closure of the portal vein. This closure is known to take place in human subjects without the secretion of bile being interrupted by it, and Ore has produced the same state artificially in animals. In dogs and cats the portal yein was gradually constricted by means