216' REPORT OX SURGERY. both occurring in aged men, but unattended by any signs of obstruction in the arteries. Both cases progressed favorably. Dr.Wilmot describes as acute gangrene (' Dub. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxiii, p. 311) the disease which we have already noticed in our abstract of Pro- fessor Billroth's paper (see the portion on septicaemia). He distinguishes, however, two forms—that of the subcutaneous and that of the deep cel- lular tissue. The former is comparatively easy of recognition ; it should be treated by amputation at an early period, and high above the disease. In acute diffused gangrene of the areolar tissue following compound frac- ture of the leg, amputation cannot be resorted to with any solid prospect of success, unless it be performed above the knee, and before the parts there have participated in the gangrenous action, and also before the vital powers have commenced to give way. In the second form the disease makes its progress so stealthily, though rapidly, and not until far advanced causing any alarming disturbance of the system or any very broadly marked local change, that the unobservant or inexperienced prac- titioner may be completely deceived, and fail to recognise the real state before fatal symptoms are presented. Death is induced by poisoning of the blood from absorption of putrid serum, and this event is quite com- patible with a very limited extent of gangrene. The earliest notice that this kind of gangrene has commenced is given by the wound on the third or fourth day from the receipt of injury. The lips pout, are thick, and present a peculiar waxy appearance, and along their margin a narrow vesication arises. There is no suppuration, and the parts would be perfectly dry if it were not for the escape of some fetid, brown serum, which wells up from between the broken fragments. This condition of the wound is certain evidence that gangrene of the areolar tissue around the broken fragments has set in. At this period there is but little general disturbance; the pulse ranges from 80 to 90, soft and full, and the patient does not exhibit signs of much prostration ; the con- stitutional character, however, of the change that has commenced is shown by the jaundiced hue of the skin and conjunctiva, which is always apparent, and the irritability of the stomach, accompanied with sour eructations. In less than twenty-four hours from the supervention of the symptoms just described the patient's fate is decided. Sometimes suppuration soon sets in, and the slough of areolar tissue escapes with the pus, or through the medium of an abscess formed in some part of the limb; all then goes on satisfactorily. Usually, however, this happy change does not occur; the wound opens out more, the lips become further everted, a bluish line is perceptible where the vesication had existed, and the fetid, serous dis- charge increases, in some instances, to such an amount as to saturate the bandages and the bed. As these changes proceed the patient complains of lcss°pain, until at length it is altogether absent. The most striking local feature now, and one which makes the case contrast with gangrene of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, is the total absence of any doughy tumefaction ; indeed, from first to last there is neither tension nor swelling of any kind, except some puffiness around the wound ; even crepitation, which can only be elicited by very firm pressure, is not always present. No sloughing of the skin beyond, at least, the margins of the wound, or