13 FUNCTIONS AND SECRETIONS OF THE LIVER. Again lie obtained sugar by letting the pancreatic substance act upon glycerine. In another series of experiments he tries to prove that glycogene and sugar are formed from glycerine within the animal system. Dogs, after having been kept fasting for several clays, had a quantity of glycerine given them; glycogene, and sometimes also sugar, were then found in their liver. From such experiments he concludes that glycerine is one of the chief sources, if not the chief source, from which glycogene and sugar are produced in the liver. Huppert, who carefully repeated the most important experiments of Van Deen, especially those of the first series, does not think that the sub- stance which the latter believes to be sugar is really sugar. Kiithe states that bilifulvine, which is formed from the brown chole- phyrrine of fresh liver-cells, is found in greatest quantities in bile taken from dead bodies which have been kept for eight or ten days. If this stale bile is exposed during twenty-four hours to the air, the bilifulvine changes into biliverdine, which is identical with the chlorophyll of plants. Kiithe experimented upon dogs. He tied a ligature round their portal vein, and another round the common bile-duct, and established a fistulous opening into their gall-bladder. The animals survived the operation for two or three hours ; sugar and bile were found in the liver. If the same operation was performed on a dog, with the exception of the mesenteric vein being tied instead of the portal vein, the animal survived four weeks. The rapid death after closure of the portal vein was, therefore, not directly produced by the injuries inflicted during the operation. In the latter experiment, in which the mesenteric vein had been tied, less bile than usual was secreted during the first few days, but after five or six days the quantity became again normal. In another dog the cceliae axis was tied, and albumen with pepsine and some hydrochloric acid was injected into the oesophagus, in order to insure digestion. The dog survived thirty-two hours. No bile was formed during that time, nor did Kiithe find any glycogene or su^ar. The gall-bladder was filled with a fluid containing htematoidine. °He concludes from this experiment that the blood of the hepatic artery furnishes the liver-cells with the necessary nutriment, thus enabling them to transform fat into biliary acids and hrematoidine into bile-pigment The substances from which bile is formed are conveyed to the liver bv the portal vein. J " Kuthe corroborated also the observation of Bernard, namely, that when the orifice of the common bile-duct is wetted by an acid, bile be°-ins to flow from it. An alkaline fluid has not that effect. It is possible that the acid gastric juice, or the chyme, promotes in this way the flow of bile during digestion. A dog was daily fed with fifty cubic centimetres of albumen and i <o cubic centimetres of bouillon. A bougie was introduced into the urethra for the purpose of conveniently emptying the bladder when required • r 76 to 3"99 grammes of urea were passed in twenty-four hours; four grammes of glycocoll were then added to the daily food, after which the quantity of