J [8 HE PORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. Report of the Committee appointed by the Royal Med.-Chirurg. Soc. to inves- tigate the subject of suspended Animation.—Med.-Chir. Traus., vol. xlv. In the case of dogs it was found that the average duration of the re- spiratory movements after the animal had heen deprived of air was four minutes five seconds; the extremes being three minutes thirty seconds, and four minutes forty seconds. The average duration of the heart's ac- tion is seven minutes eleven seconds, the extremes being six minutes forty seconds and seven minutes and forty-five seconds. On an average the heart's action continues for three minutes fifteen seconds after the cessation of respiratory efforts, the extremes being two and four minutes.—As to the question of the period after the simple deprivation of air at which recovery is possible under natural circumstances, without the aid of any artificial means of resuscitation,—the Committee conclude (i) that a state of apncea being maintained for a given time, the later the respiratory efforts are continued, i.e. the shorter the interval between the last respiratory effort and the admission of air, the greater the chance of recovery; (2) that air being ad- mitted at a given time after the last respiratory effort, the earlier the respira- tory efforts cease the greater the chance of recovery; for the earlier they cease, the shorter the interval between the establishment of, and the release from, the state of apnoea. Of the relation of recovery to the duration of the heart's action, it is stated, that under no circumstances did recovery ever occur when the heart's action, as indicated by a needle inserted into the ventricles, had stopped. In dogs the doubtful interval of recovery and death lies between three minutes fifty seconds and four minutes ten seconds. The force of the inspiratory efforts are so considerable, that when a guinea-pig's nose was immersed in mercury and held there till inspiration had ceased, the lungs were found full of globules of the metal, and when a terrier was similarly treated in liquid plaster-of-Paris, this substance was found after death throughout the bronchial tubes. In investigating the question, how long an animal can be submerged and yet recover, without the aid of artificial means, it was found that one minute and a-half s immersion sufficed to destroy life, although some respiratory efforts were made, and the heart continued to act from four and a-half to five minutes forty seconds after removal from the water. By further experiments it was shown, that the earlier death in immersion, com- pared with simple deprivation of air, did not depend upon exhausting struggles, nor on the depressing effect of cold, but chiefly on the entrance of water into the lungs. In examining the lungs of animals deprived of air merely by plugging the trachea, they were found simply congested; but in the ani- mals drowned, not only was the congestion much more intense, accompanied with ecchymosed points on the surface, and in the substance of the lungs, but the air-tubes were completely choked up with a sanious foam, consisting of blood, water, and mucus, churned up with the air in the lungs by the respiratory efforts of the animal. The lung-substance too appeared to be saturated and sodden with water, which, stained slightly witli blood, poured out at any point where a section was made. The lung thus sodden was heavy (though it floated), doughy, pitted on pressure, and was incapable