230 REPORT ON SURGERY. to be recommenced. At that time, moreover, too much confidence was entertained in the curative power of mercury to allow practitioners to look impartially on the method which aspired to replace it. Thus great in- justice was done towards it in demanding of it what mercury could not give—that is, in declaring it, inferior to mercury, if it ever allowed relapses to take place. Now mercury, as is well known, since its effects have been better studied, has been obliged to abandon the pretension of radically curing syphilis so as to render all relapse impossible. Its warmest advocates do not, in the present day, do more than claim for it the power of delaying the appearance of the first syphilitic manifestations and of hastening the disappearance of certain of them. " In fact, I possess and shall produce fifty-seven observations, from which it clearly results that mercury given from the very commencement of the pri- mary lesion, by the best specialists, and continued in full doses during as long or a longer period than the'surgeon had desired, has left the syphilis to conduct itself as if mercury had never been given—that is, sometimes to terminate favorably after two or three attacks of symptoms of no great in- tensity, and gradually decreasing in severity—sometimes to relapse at short intervals, become more and more severe, and at length become tertiary. " On the other hand, mercury has its inconveniences and its dangers. While absolving it from the production of imaginary evils—while declaring it innocent of the production of certain syphilitic lesions which Germany still persists in laying to its charge, I impute to it positively, and on suf- ficient clinical evidence, the following disadvantages :—ist, rendering the primary ulcer phagedsenic ; 2nd, occasioning stomatitis and necrosis of the alveolar borders; 3rd, an acute affection of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane and dyspepsia; 4th, trembling of the extremities; 5th, apoplexy (this is rare) ; 6th, insanity. All these accidents I have seen supervene as the results of treatment ordered and superintended by most competent aud most attentive practitioners. As, moreover, I have seen syphilis treated without mercury in general recover, as I have col- lected numerous observations where the persistence of this cure has been determined at the end of four, five, six, seven, and fourteen years (counting from the disappearance of the last syphilitic symptoms), I believe that I act in the interest of my patients in not prescribing mercury indiscrimi- nately in every case. "Consequently, if the primary lesion is an indurated, ivoody, chancre, I give mercury; if it is a chancriform erosion, I temporise and observe, guiding my treatment by the prognostic signs enumerated above, signs which, as they gradually unfold before my eyes, give me at each phase \ a new indication of the probable gravity of the syphilis with which I have • to do. As long as their answer is favorable—as long as, in other words, I think I have to do with the mild form of the disease—I abstain from mer- cury, instead of pouring it in, as so many practitioners do at the present day, on the appearance of slight relapses, which at the end of a few months would f have terminated without treatment in the definite disappearance of the dis- ease. I employ, however, other remedies, such as iodine, iron, quinine ; and, in particular, I avail myself of the resources of a tonic and supporting regi- men, the use of which in such cases seems to me to take the first place amongst our therapeutic means. If it should happen that there supervenes