NKKVOUS SYSTEM. 1,1 ;i" melancholia, tn the matter of treatment he counsels thai atfirst 60 first in the anterior part of the cerebral hemispheres, in the optic thalami, ami in the cerebellum. In the vast majority of uncomplicated cases the expectant treatment is the most successful, and the only rational. But in inflammatory or abdominal forms of the disease, emetic, purgative, and antiphlogistic means are to be employed. In some cases pot. iod. is very serviceable. Pirrie, W.—On Delirium Tremens and its Treatment. Edin. Med. J., October, December. Pirrie argues that delirium tremens is a specific toxaemia from alcoholism, and does not consist of the mere nervous irritation and exhaustion consequent on the sudden want of a favourite stimulus. He insists that many persons cease from alcoholic excess and become sober, without suffering in any degree from the disorder. Traumatic delirium he looks upon as a paroxysm accelerated in its occurrence by the shock given to the nervous system. Pirrie assents to the view that a paroxysm of delirium tremens naturally tends to terminate in a spontaneous and salu- tary sleep in about sixty to seventy-two hours. He reviews the several methods that have been recommended for the treatment of the disorder, and comes to the conclusion that an eliminant and supporting plan is most rational and likely to prove successful. Camphor and ammonia with some saline diuretic are the medicines he would administer, with strong broths for nourishment. The stimulants, however, need not be given if the cutaneous surface be warm and moist, and there be no notable asthenia. Pirrie looks on the profuse perspiration as a favourable occurrence, procuring depuration of the blood from the poison, which he believes to be the cause of the disease. He reports eleven cases of his own, of which four were treated by opium and alcoholic stimulants, and two died, while two had a tedious recovery. The other seven cases, all severe ones, treated by the eliminative and supporting plan, all recovered within the fourth day. Laycock, T., M.D.—Practical Notes on Diagnosis, Prognosis, and Treat- ment in Cases of Delirium Tremens. Edin. Med. J., Nov. 1862. Laycoek's experience during the last four years strongly confirms his previous statement as to the much more successful results of treatment according to an expectant and rational method than when opium and stimulants are freely administered. Of forty cases only one has terminated fatally. In tliis case continuous epileptic fits supervened on a course of drinking and licentiousness. Ho replies to the objection raised by sonic, thai bis cases were of a miniature kind, that Dr. Ware of Boston arrived at the same results more than twenty years ago, when there could be no question of change of type, and that Dr. Peddie, in Edinburgh, during the ten years from 1844 to 1854 treated upwards of eighty cases, many of them severe ones, in the same way with uniform success. Laycock thinks thai the diagnosis of the disease is imperfect, and the pathological anatomy altogether erroneous. The disorder may take the form of hypochondriasis, melancholia, delirium, or mania, according to the predominant modeof mental disturbance. rl he typical form, he says, offers the pathognomonic symptoms