172 REPOBT OX PKACTICAI, MEDICINE. limbs. The heart's action does not become accelerated when the vagi are divided alter it has previously been slowed by large doses. But if ilie vagi have been previously divided, the heart's action is still slowed by large doses, which shows that the slowing depends on a paralysis of the sympa- thetic ganglia, or of the muscular structure of the organ. Tichbohne.—On Vesicating Collodions. Pharmaceut. .J. Brit. Med. J. May 31st. The blistering principle is extracted from the cantharides, or mylabris cichorii, by methylated ether and glacial acetic acid, and the fluid i> then converted into collodion by the addition of gun-cotton. The composition should be painted repeatedly over the part to be blistered, until about half-a-drachm has been used to the square inch, or less if the epidermis he thin. The blistering action is hastened by covering the collodion with a large piece of gutta percha paper. In ten minutes, or a quarter of an hour, if the cuticle be hard, the collodion should be wiped off with a little cotton- wool, moistened with ether, when the blister will almost instantly rise. The advantages of this proceeding are cleanliness, avoidance of risk of dis- placement, prompt vesication, and safety from strangury. The following formula is given: R. Cantharides, Jv-j-fviij; Ether, methylated, Jxiij; Glacial Acetic Acid, Jij ; Gun-cotton, Jss ; Methylated spirit, Jvij. Morgan, J. E., M.A., M.B., Oxon.—The Disease of St. Kilda. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Bev., Jan. Trismus neonatorum, an influenzal affection termed the " boat cough," and dysentery, are the most prevalent diseases of this small island. The latter Morgan attributes to the use of the 'sea-fowl as food, which, with coarse oatmeal, potatoes, and milk, form their entire subsistence. The " boat cough," according to all the evidence that has been collected, is in some way intimately associated with the arrival of strangers at the island, whence its name. The trismus appears to depend most probably on the close and vitiated atmosphere of the huts in which the inhabitants reside, and perhaps especially on their practice of having no chimney, and allow- ing the soot to accumulate on the roof, that it may be used for the pur- poses of manure. Wallace, A., M.D.—Experiments on the administration of Cod-liver and other Oils. Med. T. and Gaz., April 19th. 1 Wallace states that there is considerable advantage in making the oil into an emulsion with liq. calcis, or syr. ferri iod., or vin. ferri and gly- cerine. It is borne much better by a weak stomach, and is altogether^ more efficacious even in ordinary cases. Child, G. W., M.D.—On Marriages of Consanguinity. Brit, and For. Mcd.-Ch. Rev., April 1862. *' • Child states the following propositions as the result of his examination of the subject. (1) That the marriages of blood-relations have no tendenc), per se, to produce degeneration of race. (2) That they have a tendency to