ItKPOUT ON SUltGEUY. ISO pository. It should he composed of a drachm of strong nercurial oint- ment, with a little tallow, and should be inserted into the rectum every eight hours. A full dose of opium should be given about two hours pre- viously, in order to secure its retention. Dr. Bell has on some occasions seen the gums becoming tender within twenty-four hours ; the time required rarely exceeded two days. Dr. O'Connor ('Lancet,' 1861, ii, 523) recommends the use of mercurial suppositories in cases of constitu- tional syphilis. One, containing from fifteen to twenty grains of Ung. Hyd., should be introduced into the bowel every night. He states that by this plan the mercury is well absorbed, that the irritation of the stomach and bowels, which so often follows the administration of mercury by the mouth, is avoided, and that he has recourse to this treatment in nearly all the cases coming under his care. Mr. Gay (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 59) has found the solution of the pernitrate of mercury, externally applied, of great use. He has tried it in a number of cases of epithelial cancer, and affirms that, so far as this affection is curable by its perfect local eradication, the solution can effect a cure. Thus, in an epithelial cancer of the lower lip, it was applied freely to the whole of the ulcerated surface. It gave great pain, but only for an hour or two. It had the effect of destroying a layer of the diseased growth, which came away as a slough on the third day. The remedy was applied, or rather the surface was soaked with the solution, twice a week for a period of six weeks, with the same result after each application. As it destroyed layer after layer of the cancer, so the wound deepened; but at the same time the adjoining tissues closed in by grauulation from every point of healthy tissue, as this was stealthily reclaimed from the invasion of the cancerous growth, until at length, even uncle?- the continued appli- cation of the agent, the whole surface threw ouj healthy granulations, and the wound healed with scarcely a mark, and without loss of healthy struc- ture. The value of this agent lies in its being fatal to the disease and powerless over the healthy tissues. The one it destroys, whilst it spares the other; and not only so, but it appears to quicken the healing energies of the latter ; for the repairing process keeps pace with the *peed with which the former comes under its exterminating influence, so that no sooner is the last vestige of the disease gone, but the wound is almost cicatrized. It proves useful also in lupus exedens, and in indurated chancre. Dr. Scholz ('Wien. Wochens.,' 1861) strongly recommends the parch- ment paper prepared by sulphuric acid, as cheaper and in every way better than the thin gutta percha and other materials used to retain moisture in dressing wounds. Mr. A. Prichard ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 306) uses gutta percha after operations for clubfoot, instead of other apparatus. "When the foot has become quite loose by the division of the muscles, and this can be effected in most cases as soon as the wounds are healed—that is, in three or four days—I carefully bandage the foot, and then envelope it in a layer of thick gutta percha, made perfectly soft by being kept in water at 2120, and covered on each surface with some tbin paper to prevent it sticking to the bandages. It must be adapted closely to the foot by bandaging ; and then, grasping the limb with both hands, and bringing