190 ItEFOItT ON SURGERY. process is very marked. The author still employs ice as a prophylactic in one class of cases—those of extensive injury of the head, where, indeed, he considers it indispensable. Treatment ofioounds with the continued water-bath (immersion).—In the author's opinion this treatment is almost absolutely necessary for contused wounds of the hand and foot; it may be recommended for amputations about those parts, and cannot be replaced by any other treatment in cases of Pirogoff's amputation. In amputations of the forearm and leg it may be employed, but the results are no better than when the stumps are simply covered with a moist compress. In all other cases the continued water-bath is either unnecessary or really injurious. Billroth has often seen pyaemia come on during this treatment. As to internal treatment, the best means of soothing a patient who has suffered an injury is a quarter of a grain of morphia, which may always be administered in such cases to relieve pain or, still more, restlessness. Very strange is the retention of urine which sometimes follows severe injuries or operations. The author does not mean that form which so regu- larly occurs after operations on the rectum, and which lasts twenty-four to forty-eight hours, but such as he has observed in two or three cases of compound fracture of the leg, where there has been no injury of the vesical region nor hsematuria. Occasionally also the urine is retained for almost twenty-four hours after great operations, and yet the patients only complain of some fulness of the abdomen, so that the distended bladder is often only found by special examination. II. On Traumatic and Secondary Fever in the Diseased. The cases in which it was necessary to open a deep-seated abscess will be treated separately. Here wc shall include cases of fever from some unknown cause or from chronic suppuration, cases of Bright's disease and of tuberculosis, and most cases of tracheotomy and of operation for hernia. Cases of fever from chronic external suppurations.—Here it was found that a fresh and very intense fever followed the operation with tolerable rapidity, and that it usually exceeded the limits of the normal type, either secondary fever or some accidental complication supervening immediately after the traumatic attack. Patients with commencing tuberculosis of the lungs.—It is still a disputed point whether an operation is admissible under these conditions ; so far as the author's experience reaches, an operation is not contra-indicated, even though the whole appearance be phthisical, so long as there are only symptoms of chronic bronchial catarrh, without distinct infiltration of the lung; indeed, in such cases there is sometimes a striking improvement of the general condition, as soon as any external suppuration is brought to a termination by amputation—which, indeed, in these cases generally is to be preferred—or by resection, or other means of treatment. On the other hand, according to his present opinion, if dulness of the upper parts of the lungs is already present, every operation, as the rule, hastens death, and is therefore contra-indicated. Patients with Bright's disease.—The author uses this denomination in its