HEAD. 271 healthy man, sixty years of nge, was attacked with severe pain and other symptoms of inflammation behind the right mastoid process: eight weeks later, he was much worn by intense suffering and sleepless nights. A probe passed into a fistula just behind the mastoid, penetrated downwards and inwards for nearly two inches, and impinged on denuded bone. The diseased portion of the occipital was laid bare and scraped off: at one point the whole thickness was removed. Slow improvement followed: the pain was much relieved, but a retro-pharyngeal abscess caused consi- derable suffering. The wound closed after many months, and the patient entirely recovered, except that a little stiffness of the neck remained even two years after the operation. Mr. Hulke, abscess of the frontal sinus ('Oph. Hosp. Rep.,' iii, 341) : A. Klementowsky on congenital hernia of the brain (Schmidt's ' Jahrb.,' cxv, 161); Demme on extracranial cysts communicating with the sinuses of the dura mater ('Arch. f. Path. Anat.,' xxiii, 48). Professor Langeubeck on tumours of the spheno-maxillary fossa, (Sachs' ' Med. Almau.,' 1862, 261). The diagnosis of these cases is of the greatest importance, because such tumours make their way through the base of the skull, causing fatal mischief, and because, at an early period, they may be removed with safety and ease, by means of resection of the malar bone. Langenbeck ha3 observed three cases, nil of the kind called cavernous. Tumours of this region have well-marked symptoms. Commencing in the pterygopalatine fossa, they grow at first in the direction, where the neighbouring parts present the least resistance: they make their appearances above and below the malar bone as slight and not distinctly circumscribed prominences of the cheek and temple. After a time they cover the whole exterior of the superior maxilla, and distend the temporal fossa; their upper portion is separated from the lower by a constriction formed by the malar bone. At the same time they penetrate through the spheno-maxillary fissure iuto the orbit, and press the eyeball upwards and somewhat forwards. They also soon penetrate through the spheno-palatine foramen into the posterior nares, driving the mucous membrane before them. As the spheno-maxillary fossa is separated from the great vessels of the neck and from the parotid region by the pterygoid fascia, they cannot readily pass in that direction. Perforation of the cranium cannot be diagnosed with certainty, because it occurs in some cases, without inducing any symptoms. A cavernous tumour of this fossa presents the symptoms common to such tumours in other parts of the body: a most deceptive feeling of fluctuation, little or no pain on pressure, and striking changes in size, so that a tumour may be one day small and flaccid, on the next tense and twice as large. Langenbeck con- siders the following symptom decisive ; if the tumour is carefully com- pressed with the fingers, it almost entirely collapses, but when the pressure is removed, it very slowly expands to its former size, like a compressed sponge placed in water. F. E—, a healthy young man of sixteen, was admitted on the 15th June, i860. For two years he had been suffering from a tumour, which had rendered the temporal region and cheek on the right side prominent, and hud also pressed the eye somewhat out of the orbit. This tumour presented all the symptoms just mentioned, and was therefore diagnosed as a cavernous tumour of the spheno-maxillary fossa.