REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. is conjoined a resume of the more important additions made to ob- stetrical knowledge of late years, both as regards pathology and treatment. Copemak, Dr.—Rare Cases in Midwifery. Brit. Med. Journ., 1862, PP- 35; l99\ 4°7> 491' .649 « ana vo1- ">.PP- 297? 5°6> 556> *ad 662. This series of rare and interesting cases in midwifery, commenced in this journal in 1861, is here continued ; the above cases include Nos. 5 to 21. Haeley, Prof, and Dr. Tannee.—Report on a Twin (?) Abortion ex- hibited at the Obstetrical Society by Mr. Langmore. Report of Ob- stetrical Society, Lancet, Aug. 2nd, 1862. A lady aborted on May 22nd ; a foetus of about four mouths' gestation was expelled; it was flattened, more or less atrophied, and had evidently been dead some time. The placenta was removed, and afterwards a smooth, soft body was peeled off the upper part of the uterine cavity, which proved to be a second bag of membranes. The chorion and amnion were unruptured, healthy and transparent, and through them an embryo of about five or six weeks could be plainly seen floating in clear liquor amnii. The embryo appeared fresh and perfect, and not at all atrophied. "Was this an instance of twin pregnancy or of super- foetation ? Drs, Harleyand Tanner were directed by the society to investigate the question. Their report concludes thus :—" We are led to assume that the case under consideration is an example of superfcetation, for this reason : if the second, healthy, six weeks' ovum were the product of the same conception as the first four months' foetus, which had been dead some time when expelled, then we must believe that, although the latter perished some days before its expulsion, and manifested symptoms of putrefaction, yet the small, second ovum died when six weeks old, was retained for about ten weeks afterwards, and nevertheless, when removed, was perfectly healthy, and did not present any trace of decomposition." We cannot subscribe to this improbable view. As, theoretically, we Bee no physical obstacle to the occurrence of superfcetation during the first three months of pregnancy, so we think the specimen now reported upon proves, as far as anything of the sort can prove, that superfcetation is a positive fact. Helly.—Clinical Report of the Lying-in and Foundling Hospital in Trent for the Session 1860-61. Prag. Viertel., No. 3, 1862. The number of women patients of the hospital during the year, August ist, i860, to July 31st, 1861, was 297. 241 were delivered in the hospital, 1 was delivered by a post-mortem Cesarean section. The deaths were 2. Of the 243 children born, 6 were born dead. The delivery was premature in peases. 211 children were transferred to the Foundling Hospital, and 26 died. The number of children in the Foundling Hospital during the year was 387 ; 44 of these died. The obstetric operations were—extraction by forceps, eleven times ; cranio- tomy and application of cephalotribe, once; post-mortem Cesarean operation, once; incision of the os uteri, once; incision of the va*