REPORT ON SURGERY. S50 Notwithstanding his aneurism, this man has never discontinued his business as a hairdresser, which requires him to be constantly in a stand- ing position. For a year, his tumour has not increased in size ; it has been stationary; the pains of which he complains must be ascribed to the presence of varices and of varicose ulcers, rather than to the aneurism itself. In this case, we intend to apply for a rather long period, metho- dical compression beginning at the foot and reaching to about the middle of the thigh, so as to oppose any increase of the aneurismal sac. By this means the man may be able, without too great fatigue, to continue his disadvantageous employment; should he become, hereafter, unable to walk, or his pains extreme, it may then be necessary to entertain the question of amputation of the thigh, an operation, however, which is far too serious and too important, to be adopted, before at least the trial of other means, which yet may very probably not lead to any satisfactory result." Rigaud (1. c, p. 102) records a case of arterio-venous aneurism of the common carotid. Professor Pitha records a case of arterio-venous aneu- rism in the bend of the elbow; there was a high division of the brachial, and the communication was between the radial artery and the median basilic vein. After an ineffectual attempt at treatment by flexion, digital compression was employed for nine days and nights without interruption, but also without the least effect. The artery was ligatured on the 10th of April four inches above the tumour; the ligature came away fifteen days later. The tumour became harder, and gradually diminished, so that on the 23rd of May it was only half its oi'iginal size (' Wochenb. d. Zeits. d. Ges.,' 1862, p. 257)'. EMBOLISM. M. Broca records the following case (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1861, p. 366) :— Louis C—; set. 61 years, was brought to the infirmary of Bicetre on the 20th June, 1861, on account of a gangrene of the little toe on the left side. He had been suffering from muscular paralysis for more than thirty years. The toe is black, hard and mummified ; in the surrounding parts there is neither redness, swelling, nor pain. No pulsation can be felt in either extremity, nor can any clots be perceived with the finger. The temperature is the same on both sides in the foot, and in the upper half of the thigh ; it is— In the popliteal space, on the left side 36-5° „ „ right side 33"»° " Difference = + 3'5 Behind the internal malleolus, on the left side 28-3° n „ right side 2860 Difference = — 0-3° Thus at the level of the knee, the left extremity is much warmer than the right; on the contrary, at the level of the ankle, it is a little cooler. These differences were found for a number of successive days. Up to the 12th July, the gangrene spread very little ; but a bedsore on the sacrum made rapid progress, diarrhoea occurred, and the patient became much weaker. On the 12th July the whole dorsum of the left foot was