REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 62 blood of substances which act as fomients, lias sought for means of arrest- ing the fermentative process in the body. He finds the alkaline and earthy Sulphites have this power, and that they are also perfectly innocuous and iinirritating. Animals' bodies, who have had sulphites administered to them before death, resist decomposition longer than those of animals who have taken none. Animals dosed with sulphites resist the morbific influence of pus, putrid blood, or glanders fluid injected into their reins, while others similarly treated, with the exception of the protecting sulplutes, become very ill or die. If an animal is inoculated with glandered pus, and soon after has sulphites administered, the inoculation wound shows only for a short time traces of diseased action, and cicatrizes; while, without the sulphites, a phlegmon forms which causes death in a few hours, or excites general infection with multiple abscesses, which usually ends in a few days with death, or at a later date with marasmus. Diseases in which the pro- phylactic or curative action of the sulphites is already ascertained, or may certainly be anticipated, are all such affections as depend upon a patholo- gical ferment in any way, viz., the exanthemata and dartrosis (most skin diseases), rheumatic fever, ague, typhoid (miliary, petechial, &c.) fever, pya?mic fever, that from absorption of putrid matters (puerperal fever, &c), epidemic and contagious fevers. [Proof of the actual efficacy of the sul- phites hi these cases seems deficient.—Ed.] Polli strongly recommends the sulphites as prophylactic remedies. He states that these salts, when given by the mouth, are found in the urine as sulphates and sulphites even twelve hours after their administration. Their therapeutic efficacy does not depend on the sulphurous acid which separates from them; they exert their ferment-arresting power as salts, and care must be taken that they are not mixed in the alimentary canal with lemon or orange juice, or that of other fruits, which would readily decompose them. Richardson, B. W.—On Anomalous Exanthems. Lancet, Dec. 6th. Richardson directs attention to certain ailments resembling more or less closely scarlet-fever or measles, but yet idiopathic and non-contagious. He thinks there exists an unknown fomi of accidental disease from absorption of some organic poison, generated during irregular digestion in the alimentary canal. This disorder affects especially the skin and mucous membrane of the alimentary tract, and developes eruption by paralysing the vaso-motor nerves of the vessels. It has no tendency to produce disease of the kidney or urajmia. Its course is variable; it may terminate at once and favourably by active purging or vomiting, or it may end fatally. It is probably most common in persons predisposed to rheiunatism. Williams, C. J. B.—On the Successes and Failures of Medicine. Lancet, April 5th, 12th. Williams records his experience (1) of pneumonia with pleurisy. He considers this as a blood-disease, and adheres to the treatment by vene- section and antimony, in moderate doses, in the incipient stage, and mercury in that of solid effusion. If, however, the type of the disease be asthenic, stimulants may be necessary from the first. Gangrenous abscess is probably the result of obstruction in the circulation and nutrition of some