84 REPORT (IN PRACTICAL MEDICINE. uterine affections, and in palsy with tonic contraction of muscles, the inverse continuous current is highly beneficial. Bourdon, H.—Case of Ataxia Locomotrice Progressive. Arch. Gener. 5 Ser. xviii., Nov. 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 30. The first symptom was loss of co-ordination of the movements of the legs; four and a-half years later paresis of the left oculo-motor nerves; lastly, paralysis of the bladder, and loss of virility. The sensibility of the skin and muscles was unimpaired throughout. The brain and cerebellum were healthy, the membranes of the spinal cord much congested and thickened, the cord itself atrophied, but softer than natural at its posterior surface. The posterior columns, and in a less degree the posterior roots, showed fatty degeneration and destruction of the nerve fibres, which extended even to the posterior horns, though here many cells were unaffected. The anterior columns were tinged yellow, but less than the posterior. The spinal ganglia were congested and enlarged. These changes were most marked in the lumbar portion of the cord, and the cauda equina. Bourdon is inclined to think that congestion of the ganglia was the starting-point of the affection, the morbid change being subsequently propagated to the posterior roots and the posterior columns. Dumenil, A.—Case of Ataxie Locomotrice Progressive. L'Union, 17, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 307. The symptoms commenced nine years before death with unsteadiness of the legs; after eight years vision began to fail; there were latterly cutaneous anaesthesia, great atrophy of the lower, and less, of the upper extremities, and paralysis of the sphincters. The posterior roots were foimd remarkably atrophied from the lower cervical downwards, the cord itself was flattened antero-postei-iorly, the posterior columns of a dirty white, especially in the dorsal region. The white matter of the posterior horns was not distinct from the grey, and was of horny consistence. The paralysed muscles were fattily degenerated, the optic nerves atrophied, the lungs tuberculous. Bourdon, H.—New Clinical and Anatomical Researches upon the Disease termed " Ataxie Locomotrice Progressive." Arch. Gener. de. Med., April, 1862. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, 1862. Bourdon comes to the following conclusions :—(1) That, independently of disturbances connected with muscular and cutaneous anaesthesia, a morbid phenomenon exists, essentially characterised by want of co-ordination of com- plex movements ; (2) this symptom, which is the " ataxie locomotrice," may, like the paralysis of movement, or of sensibility, or every other functional disturbance of the same order, appear in a number of nervous diseases, asthenic, diathetic, &c, or in intoxications, and may exist -without material appreciable alteration in the cerebrospinal organs ; (3) the same disorders, connected with the muscles, may be originated by various anatomical lesions occupying the posterior columns, the roots, and the posterior horns of the spinal marrow; (4) a certain number of post-mortem examinations give rise to the impression that a morbid entity exists, having a slow and progressive progress, a termination almost certainly fatal, and con-