REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDIC A. 430 hepatic cells were filled with fine fat-granules, so that their nuclei were concealed by them and often indistinguishable, the contrast between their condition and those which remained healthy being the more easily recognised from the small number of fat-granules these cells naturally contain in the rabbit. The membranes of the diseased cells were almost imperceptible, and their normal granular contents had for the most part disappeared. In each of the six cases the liver was enlarged, this enlargement being greater in respect of width than of thickness; the margins of the organ were not rounded. The colour was variable, the surface exhibiting patches of pale yellow, especially in the neighbour- hood of the portal vein, between which the natural colour prevailed. The orgaii contained remarkably little blood, particularly in the pale portions; it was soft, and retained for long the impression of the finger. The blood of the portal veins was dark and fluid, but the hepatic veins contained cylindrical clots. As regards the relation between the jaun- dice observed in poisoning by phosphorus and the alteration of the kver, the author is of opinion that the accumulation of fat in the hepatic cells compresses the neighbouring capillaries and impedes the circulation of blood; by this means the secretion of bile is interfered with, and jaun- dice results. With respect to the form in which phosphorus is absorbed, Lewin draws the following inference:—Inasmuch as the phosphorous and hypophosphorous acids are not poisonous, excepting in quantities much larger than could be produced by the oxidation of such doses of phosphorus as are known to be rapidly fatal, phosphorus must itself enter the circulation and act as a poison without chemical change. That this is the case is apparent from the following experi- ment :—A dog was fed for four days on food ^containing two and a half to three grains of phosphorus. On dissection, all the organs exhibited the characteristic effects of the drug, and on introducing the liver into Mitscherlich's apparatus the presence of phosphorus was strikingly demonstrated. The author is of opinion that phosphorus, being in- soluble in every other constituent, is held in solution by the fat of the serum, and that it is by virtue of this fact that it exerts its toxical action, especially on the liver. Koch ; Koht/er.—Case of Acute Atrophy of the Liver simulating Poi- soning by Phosphorus. Wiirtz. Corr. Bl., vol. xxxi, Nos. 32, 33. Schmidt, vol. 116, p. 42. An unmarried woman, set. 19, in the third month of pregnancy, died after an illness of forty-eight hours, characterised by rigors, thirst, fever, prostration, and collapse, with haemorrhages from the nose and external organs of generation. A vessel containing phosphorus-paste was found in her possession, which gave rise to the suspicion of poison- ing and to a medico-legal inquiry. The post-mortem examination yielded no evidence that phosphorus had been swallowed, but there were yellow atrophy of the liver and fatty degeneration of the heart and both kidneys. In commenting on this case, Professor KShler points out the close analogy between acute atrophy of the liver and acute poisoning by phos- phorus. The distinction must rest on the local action of the poison, and particularly on its tendency to promote ecchymosis and sloughing of the