REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. GO Kobneb, 11.—Experiments and Remarks respecting Chancre-poison Deutsche Klinik, 47, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 198. Kobner states that tlie degree of dilution of the virus is of material con- sequenoe, and that this-will account for the failure of various attempts at inoculation with blood and secretions of secondary affections. Williams, T., M.D., F.R.S.—On the Influence of Constitutional Syphilis in modifying the Character of Ordinary Disease. Brit, Med. J,, April 12th. Williams relates four cases in which patients were recovered from more or less obscure and perilous states by anti-syphilitic treatment. He is of opinion that " one invasion of constitutional syphilis establish a ' diathesis,' that is, a peculiar tendency to a special form of disease in any or every part or organ of the body, which may manifest itself in the system of the affected person for at least very many years after. Under an apparent absence of all disease, the subtle taint exists, though veiled and concealed by the decep- tive garb of health, and may be communicated by the parent of the child. Now here the question of diathesis (i.e. a latent vital power which is capable of imparting a special direction to all morbid processes which may occur in the body during the period of its prevalence) is brought in the clearest and most incontrovertible manner within the satisfactory bounds of direct demonstration." Williams aims chiefly at correcting this diathesis, and therefore advises a periodical recurrence to the use of anti-syphilitic remedies for years after the outbreak of the disease. Sigmund.—On the Difference in the Syphilitic Virus, and the Distinctness of the two Forms of Disease. Wien. Ztschr., xvii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 177. After enumerating the distinctive characters of the two fomis of disease re- sulting from the soft and hard chancre respectively, Sigmund proceeds to men- tion some groups of instances which seem to shew that the distinctions laid down are not found to hold good invariably. (1) There are cases of ulcers which from their first commencement are simple and soft, but in their course gra- dually indurate, while the lymphatic glands, at first the adjacent, and then the more remote, enlarge, and general syphilis ensues. (2) There are also cases in a soft chancre forms a soft cicatrix, which subsequently indurates, and others in which the cicatrix itself does not indurate, but the next lym- phatic gland, and then the more distant, and general syphilis ensues. (3) There are simple soft ulcers, which apjiear early, and set up hi their vicinity at first similar ulcers, and subsequently pustules, and finally, papules, while, at a later period, general glandular affection appears, and constitutional syphilis. (4) There are ulcers and cicatrices with hard bases which are not followed by glandular disease, and general syphilis. Sigmund assures us that he has taken all possible care to exclude sources of error, such as the infection of a hard chancre with the virus of a soft, or the reverse. Gambekini.—On the Import of Blennorhoia existing with the so-called, Lar- vated, Inoculable Chancre. Presse Med. 22, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb. vol. 113, p. 179.