ALKALOIDS. 447 action of emetics and purgatives they all recovered. These cases were peculiar in the absence of the erotic delirium and consecutive stupor which are usually observed. As regards the dilation of the pupil, it was noted that the " tetanized condition of the iris " lasted more than forty-eight hours, and was more marked in those who were otherwise least affected by the poison. Nicotine. Moms.—Medico-legal Researches on the existence of Nicotine in the Viscera of a Man addicted to the use of Tobacco. Journ. de Chim., vol. viii, p. 265. "With a view to determine whether the immoderate use of tobacco is traceable iu the economy after death, the author examined the lungs and liver of a man aged seventy, who had for many years taken snuff. The organs in question were minutely comminuted (by chopping and pounding with glass in a mortar), treated for some days with distilled water, and acidulated feebly with sulphuric acid (lungs), or oxalic acid (liver). The liquids were then filtered through paper free from lime, and the filtrate boiled to one third of its volume, during which process flocculi were deposited. After again filtering, each liquid was treated with absolute alcohol, which produced further precipitation. The alcoholic liquor was then evaporated, and the residue treated with a slight excess of potash. On cooling, it was agitated with ether, and after some hours the ethereal solution was decanted and evaporated in vacuo. The result exhibited all the reactions of nicotine. Strychnine. DuaiAtr.— Clinical and Medico-legal Study on Poisoning by Strychnia. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvii, p. 28. A single woman, set. 38, suffering from diphtheritic paralysis of the lower limbs, was treated for some time with sulphate of strychnia, in doses of two milligrammes daily, in pill. By mistake,-the druggist sent two pills, each containing a centigramme (=i grain), one of which was taken about half-past seven a.m. A quarter of an hour afterwards the patient, who was at breakfast, suddenly let fall the cup she held in her hand, became giddy, lost consciousness, and became convulsed. In half an hour M. Duriau found her in the following condition:—Face con- gested, without expression of suffering; eyelids closed, eyeballs distorted, with the irides concealed under the orbital arches, pupils contracted; no i rismus; rigidity of the muscles attached to the hyoid bone, and of those of the back of the neck ; clonic convulsions of the limbs, which were so rapid and frequent that they appeared continuous. Each paroxysm lasted about 'three minutes, and in the intervals there were general rigidity and inversion of the feet. The paroxysm began with shivering, similar to that which precedes the accession of fever, affecting first the arms, then the legs, the muscles of the trunk, and pharynx. The skin was hot and covered with perspiration, and the slightest touch occasioned convulsion. The pulsations were so rapid that they could not be counted, the pulse hard and full (150). The breathing was short and hurried (40 per minute) ; no respiratory murmur could be heard on auscultation.