PREGNANCY AND CHILD-BED. 395 viously supposed, osteomalacia is a disease which stands in an intimate relationship to the puerperal condition, few cases being known in which girls or men are affected. The diminution of the calcareous element in the bones is the anatomical feature. The debilitating influence of repeated pregnancies appears to be the cause of this diminution. It has been an object to determine how and in what manner the calcareous matter in question disappears; by what road, in fact, it escapes from the body. There is no proof that it is deposited, as supposed by some, in the lungs or bronchial or mesenteric glands. It has been shown that in many cases the urine is overcharged with calcareous salts; Proesch found the blood richer than usual in this constituent. There are no data as to the presence of alterations in the constitution of the lacteal secretion. The author having understood from Dr. "Winckel, of Grummersbach, where the disease is very prevalent, that the custom there prevails with the mothers of the poor of suckling their infants for an excessively long period, made further inquiries into the fact. He has ascertained that in one of "Winckel's cases, the mother suckled her first child one year and four months, the second a year, and that during the second pregnancy the disease began. In a second, who had had five children, suckled each one year and eight months— indeed, after the first pregnancy she gave suck until the movements of the second child were felt—the disease began in the second pregnancy. In Case 3 lactation was continued in the first pregnancy one year and a quarter, in the second an equally long time, and during the second pregnancy the disease commenced. The third, the sixth, the seventh child, were each kept to the breast for an equally long time. The eighth was weaned at eleven months on account of the severity of the arthritic symptoms. In Case 4 lactation was continued three quarters of a year, during which time the disease commenced. After weaning, the pains disappeared. A second child was weaned, for a similar reason, after twenty-six weeks' lactation. In Case 5 lactation was continued in the case of five children for a period of from one year and a half to two years; the disease began in the sixth pregnancy, after she had given suck to 'ins for a quarter of a year. In Case 6, first child suckled for a year and a half, the second two years, the fourth two to three years, in which latter period the disease began. The fifth child was suckled one year and eight months. In Case 7 the third child was suckled until the fourth pregnancy, and so with the next; the disease then began. In Case 8 the first child was kept at the breast for three years, when a second pregnancy supervened. The second child was suckled for two and a half years, and during this period the disease began; spite of this, the mother suckled the third child for two years. In Case 9 a woman, who had suckled three children each for two years, became affected in the latter of the three periods in question. Kilian relates a case where lactation had been continued for two years. The author had procured two samples of milk from nurses the subjects of osteomalacia, under Winckel's notice, and compared them with specimens taken from six healthy nurses. _ The natural variations in the quantity of the calcareous element in human milk may be considerable, and are not allowed for, of course, in the results here given, which are nevertheless