65 NERVOUS SYSTEM. Meryon, E.—Carlsbad Water in Gout. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 15th. Meryon is disposed to think that Carlsbad water has well-nigh, if not qiute, as special an influence on gout as qninine has on ague. He uses it as a prophylactic, and relates a remarkable instance of its success. Richardson, B. W.—Further Researches on the Therapeutic Properties of the Peroxide of Hydrogen. Brit. Med. J., March 22nd. Richardson finds this remedy valuable in chronic and subacute rheu- matism, in pulmonary congestion from valvular disease, in strumous swellings, in mesenteric disease, in jaundice, in old bronchitis, and specially in pertussis. In some instances, where it had been pushed freely, profuse salivation occurred. Duchesne-Duparo.—A Neiv Remedy for Adiposity. Med. T. and Gaz., April 19th. Duchesne-Duparc gives a decoction or an extract of the fucus vesiculosus with great effect. The dose of the latter is forty-eight to sixty grains daily. In two or three weeks the action of the remedy shows itself by increase of the appetite, diuresis, and emaciation. Fonssagrives and Leroy de Mericourt.—On the Nosological position of Beriberi. Arch, gener. xviii, Sept. 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 172. This disorder is endemic on the coasts of Arabia and India, and espe- cially in the Bay of Bengal. It is characterized by general dropsy, a rapid course, non-albuminuria, weakness, and loss of sensibility in the lower limbs. The dropsy commences as anasarca and extends afterwards to the 8er< his cavities. Venesection in the acute form, and purgatives and diuretics are advised. Case of Death from Polysarcia.—Buffalo Med. J., Brit. Med. J., Feb. 8th. The patient, a cook, a coloured man, aat. 41 years, weighed 350 lbs.; his bright was five and a-half feet, and his circumference four feet ten inches. The lungs were sound, but very small, the heart and kidneys large. Duuitt, R.—On Intemperance and its Prevention. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. nth; April 12th. Drmtl recognises bulimious dyspepsia, referrible to some morbid condi- ' "' n"' P'trvagum, as a frequent cause of intemperance. It is often produced by circumstances which occasion great nervous exhaustion Uebihty, with mental depression, is another frequent cause. The free ■™p*ta*faap of wi ■ spirits during a disease does not leave the Slightest craving for it afterwards. It is, however, very necessary when reeommendingfcstimulants, especially to females, to define the exact cmnn- afd ""' '"""^ the food that should be takenwith them. Various mental affections, as nervousness, grief, mental anxiety and stagnation, P^ary hysteria, moral msanity,all conduce fco habits of taking stimulants winch end in intemperance. 5