INORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 435 liquid ammonia, with the intention of committing suicide, on the morn- ing of September 8th, 1861. He immediately experienced pain and suifocating constriction of the throat, intolerable tearing pain in the stomach, and vomiting. Soon he became unconscious, and was brought cold and collapsed to the hospital. The treatment consisted in restoring the temperature of the body, and administering drinks acidulated with acetic acid. On the next day the skin was warm, the pulse small and frequent. He suffered less constantly, but every attempt to swallow liquids was attended with great pain and followed by vomiting; the vomited matters contained blood, and in the course of the day there were abundant liquid stools, also containing altered blood. Leeches were applied to the epigastrium, and he was fed on milk and albuminous liquids exclusively. Blood was passed by stool until the eighth day, and the other symptoms continued without abatement, while the patient became weaker and emaciated rapidly. On the ninth day an erysipelas commenced on each arm, which made rapid progress. The case termi- nated fatally on the evening of the eleventh day. The following were the most remarkable lesions observed at the autopsy:—The mucous membrane of the pharynx was red and swollen ; that of the oesophagus was of a dirty-gray colour, scattered over with ulcerations. The mucous membrane of the stomach was also softened and disorganized, and in the greater curvature was found a large, eroded patch. The liver and spleen were softened, and the mesenteric glands were enlarged and disin- tegrated. As regards the respiratory organs, the arytenoid cartilages were swollen and injected, and the epiglottis ulcerated, but the larynx was unaltered. The parenchyma of the lungs was friable and engorged with blood, and both pleurae contained much sanguinolent serum. The kidneys were enlarged, congested, and soft. Many of the tubules of the cortical substance were found to have lost their epithelium. In commenting on the above facts, the author refers to three other cases of poisoning by ammonia, which he has found to be the only instances on record in which the symptoms have resulted from the actual intro- duction of ammonia into the stomach, viz., those of Chapplain, Bullie, and Fonssagrives, and draws attention to the occurrence in all of them *of profuse gastro-intestinal haemorrhage. This result of the poison he attributes not merely to its caustic action, but also to its power of arresting the coagulation of the blood, in support of which opinion he states that in two of the cases the preparation swallowed was very dilute, containing only one tenth of caustic ammonia. In his own case, and in one of the others, the cavities of the heart contained soft coagula; but in that of Chapplain, in which death took place in six hours, and was preceded by the most profuse haemorrhage, the blood was found to be entirely liquid. Paasch.—On the Inhalation of Sal Ammoniac. Prcuss. Ver Zto- No. 16, 1862. s'' In order to obtain the expectorant action of sal ammoniac by in- halation, Dr. Paasch has adopted two methods. One consists simply in heating the salt in a saucer over a spirit-lamp, the other in combining the vapours of hydrochloric acid and ammonia in the air. The latter