258 ItEl'OIlT ON SUItGKllY. being non-essential nnd dependent only on the fact of tlieir growing on a lrcc surface. Thus a warty exterior may exist on a cancerous tumour as well as on a perfectly innocent structure; so also a villous growth, for- merly called cancer, and now styled innocent, may he either the one or the other, according to the hasis from which it springs. Thus in the hladder we sometimes meet with small vascular tufts growing from the mucous mcmhrane, leading to death from haemorrhage, and on the other hand, similar villi constituting the surface of a cancer. In the stomach and intestines such villous cancers are exhibited. The so-called cauli- flower excrescence of the uterus is a villous cancer. As to the local or constitutional origin of tumours, the tendency of recent research has been to confirm the former; in some cases, such as the secondary bony or melanotic tumours of glands or the lung, the local origin is clear ; in other cases, such as cancer, the same origin is supported by strong arguments. The following are worth quotation :—Case of a horn growing from the hand (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' vii, 903) : Mr. Cock on deep-seated tumours of the thigh (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 237) : Mr. Hewett on fibrous tumours of the scalp ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 315) : Mr. Cooper, removal of a tumour of the parotid, &c. ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1862,1,330): M. Dolbeau on cysts formed by dilated excretory canals ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1S62, p. 292): M. Broca, case of 2080 lipomata (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1862, p. 366) : E. Kollett.rare case of cancer ('Wien. M. Wchns.,' 1862, pp. 355, 371): Mr. Baker on the statistics of cancer ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,' xlv, 389). BONES. 9 During the last few years, Paul and others have strongly recommended the use of the needle as a means of diagnosis in osseousafFections. Dr. Kuchler now says (' Deuts. Klin.,' 1862, p. 359), " It is generally of great import- ance, more especially for the purpose of obtaining satisfactory indications for the performance of serious operations, such as forcible extension, excision, &c, &c, that we should make out, with the greatest exactness and freedom from doubt, the organic condition of the bones and joints,—otherwise many limbs and lives must be unnecessarily sacrificed. I am, therefore, in the habit, before almost every amputation, resection, or similar opera- tion, of placing the patient on the operating table, and chloroforming him, not with the design of immediately operating, but for the purpose of a thorough examination. In the latter, I principally employ incisions and the use of the finger; if I find the indications confirmed, I imme- diately proceed to the operation, for which every preparation has been made. We possess, as far as I know, no perfectly reliable, external symptom of the degree of porosis and fatty degeneration, &c, of the bones, and accordingly many cases are treated for months, after resolution of the morbid process has become impossible. In such cases the simple means of diagnosis, of which I make use, is the introduction of a small tenotomy knife, of an acupuncture or cataract needle, directly into the osseous tissue. Healthy bone does not allow any penetration, but it can scarcely be believed, with what ease the knife often sinks into the diseased