359 OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. of the skull remains above the pelvic brim, and neither ear can be felt, the facility with which extraction can be performed depends on the facility with which the second blade can be adapted and locked. The reason of this has not been evident. In the case in question, where this difficulty was met with, the child died in convulsions soon after birth; this would lead to the inference that the brain had suffered some serious injury from pressure. This may very likely have been inflicted by the compression which it was necessary to make with the forceps in order to draw the head through the brim. The author states that he has good reason for believing that the head will in labour bear a much greater degree of pressure laterally than if applied antero-posteriorly. This most likely depends on the dh'ections of the fibres forming the cerebral mass, and might be explained on that supposition. Ten more cases of forceps delivery (p. 638) conclude the series. In the five yeara over which the reports extend the author delivered (besides three other cases in which there was also placental presentations) 62 women by the forceps. In 37 of them one or both ears could be felt, and they were treated by the short forceps. In 25 the head had not descended so low, and they were treated by the long forceps. Of the 37 first cases, 33 were first children, 2 second, 1 a third, and 1 a fourth. Of the 25 long forceps cases, 13 were first children, 2 second, 1 a third, 1 a fifth, 3 sixth, 1 seventh, 1 eighth, 1 ninth, 1 twelfth, 1 after a large family. Fifty-nine of the women recovered, one having suffered from mania; three died, one from scarlet fever, one from typhus, the other from fever the origin of which was not discovered, more from exhaustion than from the effects of the operation. Fifty-three children were born living ; 10 were either quite stillborn or became so, one case being twin, com- plicated with convulsions, in which one child was putrid, the other could not be restored, though the heart was pulsating; one other also was putrid, one born under haemorrhage, and four others gasped after birth or were born with the heart pulsating feebly. Haaiiltox, Dr.— On the use of the Forceps in Tedious Labour. Ed. Med. Journ., Oct., 1862, p. 376. The author contends that the more frequent use of the forceps is desirable, and adduces the results of his own practice in proof of this statement. He had delivered 731 children consecutively, and all born alive, in the delivery of 90 to 100 of which the forceps had been em- ployed, that is to say, including only cases attended by him from the first, and excluding from consideration all children non-viable or already dead. The mortality in parturition increases always with the duration of the labour ; and, believing that the danger is greatest in those cases where the delay occurs during the second half of labour, he always had endeavoured to shorten this stage as much as possible by every means compatible with the safety and well-being of mother and child. In an apparently normal case, if the child's head remains longer in the pelvis than two hours, and the pains are at all severe, he uses the forceps, con- sidering that the child's life is becoming endangered. He had employed the forceps about 200 times, and had found no danger whatever if the head had not been allowed to become impacted. He employed the