70 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDIC] N E. only an aperient should be given, or perhaps an emetic, and no mechanical restraint attempted. After the direct effects of the intoxicant have passed off the patient should be carefully examined, to ascertain the condition of the principal organs, and the true character of the hallucinations. I!' the mental disorder is the reverse of melancholia the case is not one of delirium tremens. When the hallucinations and delusions are characteristic in the beginning, the apprehensiveness and restlessness not strongly marked, and the character of the mental disturbance gradually changes into the aggres- sive, sullen, or manaical kind, the case is likely to end in chronic disease. When the mental disorder is like that of acute mania, and the paroxysm has been excited by a small excess in a predisposed person, the case is likely to end in a few days under simple treatment. When furious delirium succeeds to the melancholic condition in a young patient who has been without food or sleep for some time the prognosis is favourable in the absence of cerebral predisposition, and in proportion to the youth of the patient. Hallucinations as to perceptions of common sensation, especially of the sldn of the trunk, occurring in a typical case afford a favourable prognosis, and sleep will come without a hypnotic; if, however, the illusions are referred to the head the prognosis is more doubtful, and the case may end in insanity. When the hallucinations are gloomy and monstrous, without terror or tremors, and the drinking bout has been preceded by symptoms of insanity, the case is likely to become chronic as developed insanity ending in dementia. In melancholia with auditory and ocular illusions, but without tremors, the prognosis is unfavourable, when the delusions are unfounded suspicions, jealousies, and the like, and the patient is sullen. Cases of melancholia with gastric disorder, if free from important cerebral or visceral complication, end favourably in a week. If there be some complication, though not of a serious kind, the case will terminate favourably in fourteen days, even though the delirium be more aggressive than melancholic. Profound melancholia after abuse of distilled liquors or opium, or tremors and convulsive attacks after abuse of fer- mented drinks or bitters, admit a favourable prognosis. Laycock dis- believes that abstinence from habitual stimulants will cause delirium tremens. He thinks the attack is brought on in all cases by morbid causes of a general character, such as induce a feverish cold, &c. Alcoholic stimuli may be administered in all asthenic cases of delirium however caused. With regard to opium, Laycock thinks that in some drunkards its operation may be so delayed that a cumulative effect is produced, that it is never wholly safe to administer it for the express purpose of procuring sleep, and that the state of the pupils should always be watched. Mental hypnotics are singularly successful in cases where there is an hypochondriac anxiety for sleep. Tartar emetic is chiefly indicated in cases where there is some inflammatory complication, especially pneumonia, however trifling. It is advantageous also in the early period of the more sthenic cases, and Where the mental disorder more nearly approaches insanity or mama. When there is depression Tr. Opii in t»i x-xv doses may be given with m xv-xx of the Liq. Ant. Pot. Tart. If there be evidence of gaetftc inflammation suitable dietetic and medicinal means must be employed. Chloroform may be of use in very violent cases.