ItEPOllT ON SUltGEllY. 288 the arteries was diminished, is to some extent supported by the paleness of the face, the anaemic condition of the mucous membranes, and the rapidity of the pulse. Einbrodt has shown experimentally, that the arterial pressure diminishes as the rapidity of the pulse increases. It has also been shown by Bernard and Brown-Sequard that the arterial walls become actively contracted from irritation of the vasomotory nerves, but such a state would hardly have been relieved so rapidly by the treatment. The repletion of the veins was no doubt owing to the diminution in the vis a tergo, which was produced by the obstruction in the arterial circu- lation. A somewhat similar case, which came under Rothmund, is related in the 'Med. Times and Gaz.' (1862, 1,385). Dr. Liebreich on retinitis leuksemica, and on embolism of the arteria centralis retinae ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, i,384). Amaurosis. Mr. Salter, case of amaurosis after acute abscess of the antrum ('Med.- Chir. Trans.,' xlv, 355): H. Noyes on amaurosis from injury of the supra- orbital nerve ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1862, i, 150, 184) : Dr. Midler, case of hemiopia from a tumour on the sella turcica (' Arch. f. Ophth.,' viii, [, p. 160) : Dr. Seidel on visual affections in pneumonia (' Deuts. Klin.,' 1862, p. 269): M. Lecorche on diabetic amblyopia ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1861, pp. 717, 749) : Dr. Fikentscher, case of sudden and incurable amaurosis after haematemesis ('Arch. f. Ophth.,' viii, i, p. 209): M. Gosselin on cod-liver oil in hemeralopia ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 330) : Dr. Lee., case of hemiopia ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1862, i, 175). EAR. Dr. von Troltsch, ' The Diseases of the Ear—their Diagnosis and Treat- ment,' pp. 12 and 262, Wiirzb., Stahel. Dr. Jos. Gruber in Vienna has published a paper on the relations of otitis interna to inflammatory affections within the cranium ('Woch. d. Zeit. d. k. k. Gesells.,' 1862, pp. 172, 185, 193). He observed a case, in which a simple acute inflammation of the mucous membrane in the middle ear, without a trace of caries, excited inflammation of the lateral sinus, followed by pyaemia, pleuritis, and death. The lateral is far more frequently affected, than one of the petrosal sinuses, a circumstance dependent on the relations of the former to the mastoid cells. For the further examination of this subject, the author made a large number of dissections of individuals varying in age and sex. He found that in infants the cavity, which represents the cells of the mastoid process, is smoother, and almost resembles a continuation of the tympanic cavity backwards'and inwards. As the mastoid process increases in size, its cellular structure becomes more complicated. Up to this time the par- tition between the lateral sinus and the mastoid cells, is thick and spongy ; as, however, the cells are developed, the partition becomes continually thinner, and this continues up to the age of puberty. From this time to about the age of forty-five, the septum is extremely thin, in many cases even entirely absent in some places, so that the lateral sinus touches directly the mucous lining of the mastoid cells. As years increase beyond