REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Gibson, W., M.D.—Smallpox and Vaccination in Campbelton. Edinb Med. J., Feb. 1862. Gibson states, that of 217 persons who had smallpox 140 were vacci- nated, and 77 not; of the 140 only one died, but of the 77 there died 18. Of the 140 only five had the disease confluent; of the 77 it was confluent in 53- . Of 333 persons, 175 were vaccinated, and had not had smallpox previously; all of these were exposed to the infection, and 69 only were attacked. Of the same 333 there were 55 unvaccinated, and who had not had smallpox before; of these, only one escaped the disease. It further appeared that the protective power of vaccination was not confined to a few years subsequent to the operation, and that the severity of the disease did not increase in a given ratio from the same period. Gibson argues that vaccination should be made compulsory, and that there is a necessity for more stringent sanitary laws to prevent smallpox from spreading. Influence of Concurrent Diseases on Vaccine Virus. Amer. Med. T., Brit. Med. J., May 31st. Two instances are related, in which persons previously exposed to small- pox infection were vaccinated, and in whom both diseases were fully developed. Lymph taken from their vaccine vesicles was used to vaccinate healthy persons, and from these again was transferred to others, but no abnormal effects whatever were produced. The writer, from forty years peculiar familiarity with this subject, under most varying conditions, arrives at the conclusion that vaccine lymph is never the medium by which other constitutional affections are transferred from one person to another. Lyman, H. M. (Amer. Med. T, Feb. 22nd, March 1st, 8th), records in- stances of injurious consequences resulting from vaccination with decomposing lymph, or with lymph taken from persons who had been recently blistered. Erysipelatous and gangrenous inflammation were produced, and several persons died. He cites several instances from German and French autho- rities, in which syphilis was commrmicated by vaccination (v. Heine, Edin. Med. J. 1858, p. 605; Lecoq. Gaz. des Hopit., Dec. 24th, 1859; Gaz. hebdom, March 9th, 1855). As in many cases persons have escaped without injury who have been vaccinated from the syphilitic, he suggests that this immunity may be owing to the contents of the vesicles from which the virus was taken not having become purulent, the syphilitic taint not being communicable except by purulent matter. Erysipelas is more prone to occur in persons of irritable, thin, and vascular skins, in certain atmospheric conditions, and in infants vaccinated before the fourteenth day. Numerous punctures seem also liable to produce excessive inflammation, and even dangerous sloughing. Lyman does not determine whether virus, transmitted for a long period from one human being to another, loses any of its protective power, but thinks it certain that virus recently derived from the cow is much more prone to cause disturbances, ulcerations, diffused inflammation, and general cutaneous affections. Kaoaine, Barillier, Liegard.—On the Vaccination of Infants. Amer. Med. T, April 5th, 19th.