449 ALKALOIDS. in minute quantities can be recovered from organic mixtures, not- withstanding the presence of three times its weight of sulphate of morphia." IIobslet.—On the apparent difficulty of detecting Strychnia in presence of Morphia; discovery of a more powerful Reagent for Strychnia {Nitroprusside of Sodium). Chem. News, June 21st. A fragment of nitroprusside of sodium was introduced into a solution of one grain of strychnine in 100,000 of water, and agitated till dissolved. Of this mixture one drop was let fall into a small capsule, and dried at steam heat. On cooling, the oxidation colours were developed by draw- ing across the spot a rod dipped in sulphuric acid. This test is said to be more than thirty times as delicate as the bichromate of potash test, and to be applicable in presence of large proportions of morphine! Wilmot.—Poisoning by Strychnine. Med. Times, March 8th. A girl, act. 18, a general servant, who had just been discharged by her master on account of pilfering, bought sixpennyworth of vermin poison at a druggist's at Tunbridge "Wells. She retired to her bedroom soon after half-past eleven ; fifteen minutes later, her master, hearing loud groans, entered her room and found her writhing in bed, with sobbing and choking respiration. A medical practitioner was at once sent for, who, on arriving thirty-five minutes after sbe had retired, found her dead. An emptied glass containing vermin powder was found by her side. It was ascertained from the manufacturer, as well as by chemical exa- mination, that it contained strychnine, but in what proportion is not stated. A verdict was returned of felo de se. Ma^nkopit.—Case of Poisoning by the Java Arrow-poison {Upas Tieutf). "Wien. Med. "Wchnschr., vol. xii, Nos. 30 and 31. Schmidt, vol. 116, p. 301. Dr. E—, of Berlin, a well-known physiologist, took, by way of experiment, about three grains of this poison, which had been sent him from Java. No symptoms were experienced for half an hour, excepting a peculiar feeling of weight in the stomach. At the end of that period a " sensation of stretching" was felt along the vertebral column, and half an hour later a violent shudder occurred, which was immediately fol- lowed by forcible " stretching" of the extensor muscles of all the ex- tremities, spasmodic retraction of the head, and trismus. This paroxysm soon passed off, but was speedily followed by others similar to it. Con- sciousness remained unaffected, and the patient breathed naturally. At his own desire, he was removed to the Charite Hospital an hour and three quarters after taking the poison. An emetic of potassio-tartrate of antimony and ipecacuanha produced abundant vomiting, during which an excessively violent paroxysm of spasm came on, attended with closure of the glottis and suffocation. After this had subsided, ten drops of laudanum were given every quarter of an hour. After five doses (the last two of fifteen drops each) sleep was induced, and lasted for twelve hours, with the exception that it was interrupted from time to time by paroxysms of spasm. On waking he was much exhausted, and still com-