FEVER ACCOMPANYING SURGICAL AFFECTIONS. 201 In the thirty-one cases death occurred five times, about 16 per cent.; it was always induced by the continued severity of the fever and by the ex- haustion thence resulting. One patient died on the sixth, one on the eighth and three on the eleventh, day. Three of these patients were old and marastic ; two were young women, one of whom was affected with extreme aneemia, 'and the other with commencing Bright's disease. In the post- mortem examinations no metastases were found, no cedema of the mem- branes of the brain, nothing peculiar in the blood; the spleen was soft, but not enlarged. , In some of the severer cases albumen was found for many days in the urine. Twelve were cases of recent, and eighteen of old, suppurating wounds ; in one case erysipelas of the head occurred in an old tippler, whose penis had been amputated for carcinoma; this was the only case in which it did not commence at the wounded part. VIII. Fever in Inflammation of the Lymphatics. In three cases of injuries of the hand inflammation of the lymphatics appenred on the fourth and sixth day ; in two cases of injuries of the foot on the second day ; in only one of these cases did it commence with a rigor ; once, in a'very weak patient, the temperature rose to 41'2°, in the rest the fever was not very intense ; it lasted two to three days in the three cases which terminated in resolution. The defervescence was always rapid. IX. Fever in Trismus and Tetanus, in Injuries of the Spinal Cord and Brain. The author has seen two small epidemics of tetanus ; in the one, which happened at Zurich, seven cases occurred in one week, at a time when the weather was very hot, the barometer extremely high, and storms most frequent. In five cases four were acute, one chronic ; nervous branches or trunks could always be seen exposed in the wound, with the exception of one case. In all these cases the author has traced the nerves for some dis- tance, and examined them with the microscope ; he could, however, find no trace of neuritis, nor, in fact, anything abnormal except slight ecchy- moses in the neurilemma, which are probably caused by the muscular spasms. He failed to find the changes in the spinal cord which have been described by Rokitansky and Demme. As to the fever in tetanus, it is severe in acute, slight or absent in chronic, cases. " Some old author, whose name I now forget, asserts that a patient with tetanus whose pulse is over 120 is beyond recovery, an affirmative statement which is, perhaps, quite true, although, on the other hand, death sometimes occurs when the pulse has not attained such a rapidity." In four cases which terminated fatally, the temperature steadily, though not very rapidly, augmented from the commencement of the trismus to the time of death; it was at first slight, 36-6°, 380, 38-3°; it reached in the case.with the most rapid course 420, in the rest 41-7°, 39-4°, 390. X. Remarks on the so-called Hospital Miasma. Billroth has great doubts as to the hospital miasma about which so much is said ; there is not the least proof, but that there would be an equal