REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. I wo examinations were also made of chyle procured from the thoracic ducts of foals. By comparing the results, it was found that the contents of the thoracic duct, and those of the large lymphatic trunk of the right side of the neck, differed from each other cpjantitatively and qualitatively scarcely otherwise than hy a small quantity of iron contained in the former. It was desirahle to examine also some hlood of a foal under the same circumstances. The density of the blood, the quantity of dry substance which it contained, and the quantity of its other constituents, amounted to about double as much as were found in the lymph and chyle. _ Placed under the same circumstances, animals of a similar constitution yield from the right lymphatic trunk of the neck ift of their weight in lymph—14$ of the weight of half the head and neck. In twenty- four hours the quantity of chyle and lymph which flows into the general circulation is as large as the whole amount of blood in circulation at any given time, containing as large an amount of salts as blood, but only half the amount of organic matter. RESPIRATION. Lungs and skin. Traube, M.—On the relation of Respiration to Muscular Activity and 011 the Signification of Respiration in general. Virchow's Arelnv, vol. xxi, 1861, pp. 386—414. Traube.—On the Physiology of Respiration. Med. Centr. Ztg., xxxi, 38, 39, 1862. Edenhuizen.—Contributions to the Physiology of the Skin. Nach- richten der G\ A. Universitat zu Gottingen, p. 288, 1861. Traube distinguishes three important functions of respiration :—1. The formation of cells.—This is the most general function of respiration ; for all organized beings, vegetables as well as animals, require oxygen for the building up of their cellular structure. This function is manifested in its purest form in the vegetable kingdom, in which oxygen is required solely for that purpose. 2. Muscular activity.-—This respiratory function belongs to all animals, warm-blooded as well as cold-blooded; and in the latter it constitutes the chief function of respiration. 3. Production of heat.— Though this function requires, on the average, the largest amount of oxygen; it is only in the warm-blooded animals that it assumes vital importance. Traube put animals under the influence of narcotics, and made them inhale various gases by means of artificial respiration. He arrives at the following conclusions:—1. The phenomena of dyspnoea in mammalia are not due to a decrease in the amount of oxygen taken into the system, but to a decrease in the elimination of carbonic acid which is constantly forming within the system. 2. The agent which incites in- and ex- piration, by stimulating the nervous centre of respiration contained in the medulla oblongata, is carbonic acid. 3. The phenomena of dyspnoea produced by the accumulation of carbonic acid within the body are the more energetic the larger the quantity of oxygen is which is contained in the blood at the same time. 4. The carbonic acid acts as a stimulant on a