KBFOHT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 171 ration it is to be heated to 900, and then the number of seconds observed which it takes to cool down to 8o°. (1) It shows the conducting power of aii- or water. In an apartment at the temperature of 540, it cooled in air in 94"; in water at 540, it cooled in 8". In a room of temperature 400, it cooled in 740; in same room, same temperature, it cooled when covered with damp cloth in 36". (2) It shows the cooling effect of cur- rents in the surrounding media of air or water. In water at rest, tempera- ture 700 F., it cooled in 24"; when agitated in the same, in 15". In a room, temperature 570, it cooled in 115"; when blown on with a bellows, it cooled in 16". In a room, temperature 60°, it cooled in 131"; but when placed in a cylindrical glass jar, two inches in diameter, it cooled at 157". (3) It shows the effect of wind, that most important element of climate, which is entirely unheeded by the ordinary thermometer. In the open air, at 61 °, it cooled in 45"; when protected by the glass cylinder, it cooled in 149". (4) It shows the refrigerating effect of air admitted into apartments from open windows. In a room, temperature 440, it cooled in 72". In the same room, with the window open, and the external tempera- ture 340, it cooled in 32". (5) It shows to what degree the heat derived from an open fire-place is accompanied by a cooling process from the cur- rent of air rushing towards the fire. (6) It shows the cold and heat of climates as actually felt by human beings. Langier.—New Mode of Treatment of Local Gangrene by Oxygen Baths. Bullet. Gener. de Therap., May 30th, 1862. Brit and For. Med.- Chir. Bev., July. Acting on M. Beveil's theory, that the essential cause of gangrene is a diminution or absence of the oxygen necessary for the integrity of the life of tissue, Langier has placed parts affected 'with commencing mortifica- tion in an apparatus where pure oxygen was being disengaged. The gangrene was speedily arrested in two cases. De Bicci.—Phlorydzine and its Uses. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Aug. 1862. This is a neutral principle, which exists in considerable quantities in the bark of the root of the apple, plum, and cherry trees; it contains no nitrogen, does not act as a base, is very insoluble in cold water, but easily dissolves on the addition of a little ammonia. It is very suitable in cases which need a tonic, but are intolerant of quinine, salicine, or iron. The dose is five grains three or four times a-day for adidts. Wunderlich, C. A.—On the Use of the Thermometer at the Sick Bed. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 85. "Wundcrlich gives first some practical rules, and then lays down 111 n series of twenty-seven propositions the chief facts relative to the temperar ture of the body in diseases. These were noticed in the last Ycar-Book; we shall therefore only adduce some of the illustrative instances which he appends to show the utility of this mode of examination. In a patient who presents all the signs of a typhus fever in the first week, the U-m- perature is or becomes normal, though only temporarily, in the course of the week. This single proof of a normal temperature at any time