434 UEPOItT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEUIA MEDICA. that an injection containing one scruple of iodide of potassium in four- ounces of water produced sore throat, salivation, and coryza, in an. hour or an hour and a half. Iodine could bo detected in the urine and pituitary secretion in three and a half hours. Le Bbument and PjSeier.—On the Chemical and Therapeutical Proper- ties of Neutral Iodide of Antimony. Bull, de Ther., vol. lxii, pp. 163, 217, and 253. Schmidt, vol. 115, p. 165. This preparation is best obtained, according to the authors, by tritu- rating two parts of antimony with three of iodine in a porcelain mortar with a little alcohol, until the mass, after evaporation of the alcohol, forms a reddish-yellow, inodorous powder. On subliming this product the iodide is obtained in the form of dull-red, crystalline flakes, which are very fusible and volatile. The salt is usually prescribed in doses not exceeding a tenth of a grain. When given in grain doses it pro- duces cardialgia and vomiting, accompanied with shivering, which, how- ever, may be checked by combining it with opium. When continued in large doses for some days the sickness ceases, but it accelerates and, at the same time, weakens the pulse, diminishes the secretion of urine, and induces profuse sweating, with increasing weakness. To these effects are sometimes added excessive restlessness, subsultus, and de- lirium ! Notwithstanding these disagreeable symptoms, the authors regard the remedy as highly advantageous in certain cases of phthisis. When combined with a liberal diet, they find the appetite improved, the cough relieved, and the expectoration diminished under its use in small doses. It is best given in pill, with 01. Anis. or 01. Menth. vir. Bbyant.—Iodide of Ammonium as a substitute for Iodide of Potassium. Med. Times, Feb. 1st. The iodide of ammonium has been lately used with marked success at Guy's Hospital in certain glandular affections in which iodide of potas- sium had failed. Five grains are given three times a day in compound infusion of gentian. Externally it is used as an ointment (5j to 5J of cerate), or, dissolved in glycerine in the same proportion as a liniment. Bromine. Eienslagh.—Note on the Ancesthetic Effects of Bromide of Potassium on the Mucous Membranes. Journ. de Med., Sept., 1862. Bull, de Ther., vol. lxiii, p. 470. Bromide of potassium, in doses varying from fifteen to thirty grains, given in the course of an hour, has been for some time past used by M. G-uersant and other surgeons for the purpose of producing anaes- thesia of the fauces and soft palate. Eienslagh has found that this effect extends to the mucous membrane of the nose, and particularly to the conjunctiva, and that it possesses great advantages as a local anes- thetic in operations on the eyeball. Alkaline Bases. Potain.—Case of Poisoning by Liquid Ammonia. Jouru. de Chimie Mud., vol. viii, pp. 311 and 476. A printer, sot. 44, resolutely swallowed more than three ounces of