12 UEPOKT ON PHYSIOLOGY. of a loop, till at the end of eight days it was entirely closed. The much- dilated superficial veins of the abdomen established a communication be- tween the vena cava inferior and the vena mammaria. The kidneys were congested. The liver was partly congested and partly anaemic. Three cliflerent sets of enlarged veins were seen to enter the portal vein above the tied spot, that is, the portion communicating with the liver •—i Small branches which came from the veins of the bile-ducts and of the ligament of the liver, and which communicated distinctly with gastric vein" °' 2 A portion of the veins of the gall-bladder, of its duct, and of the surrounding parts. 3. A venous trunk, coming from the vena cruralis and vena ept gastrica, and ascending along the linea alba. This received small branches from the fundus of the bladder, from the external subcutaneous veins of the abdomen, and from the peritoneum, and entered the upper un- closed end of the umbilical vein, and thus joined the portal vein This important vein is normally very small. Schiff proposes to call it vena parumbihcalis. In cases of obliteration of the trunk of the portal vein this vein, as it enlarges, conveys blood to the branches of the former within the liver. Schiff, therefore, does not think that either the experi- ments of Ore, or the pathological observations on the secretion of bile after obliteration of the portal vein, are contradictory to the notion that the bile is formed from the blood conveyed to the liver by the portal vein but neither does he believe that the blood of the portal vein is especially adapted for the formation of bile. He endeavoured to show by experiment that bile may be formed quite as well from arterial blood, if this is led through the channels of the portal vein. For this purpose be diverted the blood from tbe renal arterv of cats, througb an india-rubber tube filled with tepid water, into the portal vein. In one instance he believes that the experiment succeeded, that is that the flow of the blood from the artery into the vein continued for an hour and a quarter, and that seventeen grammes of bright-yellow bile found in the gall-bladder, which had been emptied previous to the experi- ment, were secreted during that time. Pasteur discovered that, during the alcoholic fermentation of sugar-con- taining fluids, glycerine is always formed. Berthelet observed that glycerine, by being acted upon by nitrogenous substances, can be trans- formed into a kind of sugar capable of undergoing fermentation. Lehman argued for the probability of sugar being formed from the glycerine of neutral fats in tbe liver. Van Deen thinks that his experiments prove that all these propositions are true. In the first part of his researches he endeavours to show that sugar is formed from glycerine outside the organism. He states that, in a mixture of two parts of glycerine and ninety-eight parts of water, sugar is formed under the influence of a constant electric current. After several hours of this treatment the fluid reduces copper, crystals can be obtained from it which react on Pettenkofer's test, and the fermentation test also succeeds. He further maintains that, when three parts of glycerine are treated with one part of concentrated nitric acid till no more nitrous acid escapes, sugar is formed.