ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF PELVIS. 34? channel, this passage should be assisted; that the formation of an opening into the bladder docs not contra-indicate an operation. EETROVERSION OF GEAYID UTEBUS. Pajot.—Retroversion of the Gravid Uterus. Gaz. desHop., Feb. 22nd, 1862. A -woman, who had menstruated last four months previously, pre- sented herself for relief from retention of urine, which had existed for some days. The bladder having been relieved, the uterus, enlarged, was felt in the pelvis. The os was carried up behind the symphysis, the lips sbghtly softened, its orifice a little ddated. The breasts showed a well-marked areola; the uterus, examined by the rectum, was felt to be enlarged, and situated in the sacral fossa. The diagnosis was retrover- sion of the gravid uterus. Chloroform having been given, and the patient placed on her back an instrument consisting of a wooden stem, furnished at one end with a tampon, rounded so as not to injure any of the soft parts was thus used: one finger in the vagina held the os, while pressure was made by means of the instrument introduced into the rectum against the body of the uterus, which was in this manner pushed into its proper position. Bpfce, Dr.—Retroversion of Pregnant Uterus. Ed. Med. Journ ., Nov., 1862. The patient thought she was pregnant, the os was with difficulty felt high up, the mass of the uterus forced down in the perinamm. Dr. Keiller manipulated with the hand in the vagina, the thumb in the oh, and the finger pressed against the tumour, the patient being under chloroform : the uterus was reduced with a jerk. Five months after, she was delivered of a living and healthy child. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF PELVIS. OrsHAtrsen.—Obliquely Distorted Pelvis, icith Sacro-iliac Anchylosis ; with Remarks on Simon-Thomas's theory of the Origin of this Defor- mity. Mon. £ Geb., March, 1862, p. 161. A careful description is here given of a pelvis presenting this deformitv, with drawings of the same. The woman died of rupture of the uterus during delivery. The pelvis is of medium size, the left Bacro-iliac synchondrosis is anchylosed, and the sacrum and iliac bones perfect ly continuous. The measurements of all the bones are minutely given; The measurements of the pelvis are as follows:—The inlet forms an oval, the greatest diameter of which is from the anchylosis to the middle of the right horizontal ramus of the pubic bone. This diameter measures 4" i/'"- (Parisj inches and lines) ; the short measurement of this oval is .3" .3*"'; anteroposterior diameter, .3" 10"'; right oblique diameter .3" ?>'■" ; 4" 11'". The general question as to the origin of the deformity is discussed at length. The conclusions arrived at are expressed as follows :—It is proba- ble that in some cases the theory of Simon-Thomas and Martin, which assigns the origin of the affection to extra-uterine life holds good, but that it ih not true in the majority of cases. The anchylosis is not necessaril v