ItEFORT ON SURGERY. 200 to the basilar process, to the bnck of the pharynx, and to the base of the left pterygoid process. It was removed by the gouge and strong scissors. Fearful haemorrhage occurred—the patient was on the point of fainting, the pulse could hardly be felt, when the actual cautery was freely applied, and the bleeding stopped. The lower portion of the jaw was restored to its proper position with some difficulty; pieces of cork were inserted between the molar teeth, and the case was treated after the manner of a fractured maxilla. The wounds in the face were, of course, sutured. In the after-treatment, it was found difficult to keep the jaw in its proper place. Ultimately firm union took place, and the wound in the palate perfectly cicatrized. The patient could masticate, swallow, and speak without the least difficulty. J. Roux, of Toulon, has also proposed a new osteo-plastic method ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1861, p. 3^4), for which he claims that it gives the freest possible access to the morbid growth, at the same time that it causes little disfigurement or subsequent inconvenience. According to him, the different preliminary operations for laying bare such tumours may be classed in the following manner. 1. Method by the mouth.—Incision of the soft palate, Manne; division of both soft and hard palate, Nelaton ; Botrel's modification ; division of the hard palate, A. Richard. 2. Method by the nose.—Incision and abduction of the nose, Garengeot; incision, abduction of the nose, removal of the nasal bones, of the septum, and of the turbinated bones, Chassaignac. 3. Method by the orbit.—Perforation of the lachrymal bone, Rampolla. 4. Method by the cheek.—Removal of the whole of the upper jaw, Syme, Flaubert; partial removal of the same bone, Maisonneuve ; dis- placement of a part of the upper jaw, Langenbeck, Huguier; displace- ment of the ivhole upper jaw, J. Roux. In the last method, the soft parts are divided, but no flaps are formed ; the bones are cut through, but no portion of them is excised ; both the soft parts and the bones are simply displaced in such a way that, when the operation is concluded, they may be restored to their natural position, and leave hardly perceptible cicatrices. With this design, wemust— 1. Consider the malar and superior maxillary bones as one; 2. Incise the soft parts only at the points, which correspond to the attachments of these bones with those of the face and cranium ; 3. Divide such attachments ; . 4. Dislocate the divided bones; 5. And, finally, after the complete removal of the polypus, approximate and maintain in contact both the soft and hard parts, which have thus been temporarily separated. The operation may be divided into five stages, of which the first three may be performed under chloroform. 1. Division of the fronto-malar union.—Transverse incision, a centi- metre long, through the soft parts over the orbital process; section of the bone with the chisel or chain-saw. 2. Division of the temporo-malar attachment.—Vertical incision, a centimetre long, over the zygomatic process ; section of the bone as before. 3. Division'of the orbito-nasal attachment.—Incision commencing at