423 BATHS. quantities of solid and liquid aliments, of urine and feces ; and tlie daily quantity of each of the solid constituents of the urine was estimated in each case. Then, for a period of three or four days, a hath was taken daily at a fixed time, and the same determinations were repeated. During the whole period of observation a uniform diet and mode of life were maintained, the men remaining constantly in one room. A balance was employed capable of indicating differences of a single grain when loaded with the weight of the body. The temperature was taken in the axilla and mouth, the respirations were counted in the sitting posture (as in the bath). The constituents of the urine were determined daily; the chloride of sodium, the urea, and the degree of acidity, Tolumetrically, the rest of the constituents by weight. The phosphoric acid was calculated from-the weight of pyrophosphate of magnesia resulting from the calcination of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, obtained by the usual method. The following is a summary of the results of the inquiry:—In a warm bath, in which the temperature of the water is above blood heat, the temperature of the body rises, but immediately afterwards falls to the normal standard. No alteration takes place either in the rapidity or depth of the breathing or in the rapidity of the heart's action, but the pulse becomes larger and fuller. The weight of the body either increases slightly or remains unaltered. The gross gain oi weight during the bath was found to be from thirty to forty grammes; but after making a deduction for the loss which would have taken place by evapo- ration from the cutaneous surface if the patient had not been in the bath, the author concludes that the actual gain by the penetration of water into the organism may be approximately estimated as not exceeding- ten or twenty grammes. In arriving at this conclusion it is, of course, assumed that the loss of weight by pulmonary exhalation is not ma- terially increased. From the insignificance of the result, it cannot be attributed to the absorption of water into the circulating blood, and is sufficiently accounted for by the mere soaking of the skin. The daily loss by insensible transpiration varied in the two cases. In the one it was increased, in the other it remained the same as before the baths were taken. The daily quantity and reaction of urine is unaltered; but its specific gravity and the daily quantity of solids excreted are increased. This increase is common to all the constituents of the urine except the phosphoric acid, in respect of which no alteration is observable. The urea and uric acid are both of them excreted in large quantity, but the most marked augmentation takes place in the weight of the ash (non-volatile salts), which in one instance exceeded the normal by half its amount. The chloride of sodium and the earthy sulphates and phosphates, which were separately determined, are increased in like proportion. In the cold sitz-bath the pulse is retarded and weakened, but becomes fuller and more rapid than before, after leaving the water. The breath- ing is rendered unequal and short j the temperature of the body sinks (sometimes as much as 20 C), but gradually rises after the bath, at- taining its maximum in two or three hours, when its excess, as compared