375 DISEASES OF WOMEN. pya?mia. After passing through a severe illness of some days' duration, she finally recovered, and menstruation took place regularly. PitELL.—Incarcerated Hcematometra, produced hy acquired Atresia of the Os Uteri. Mon. f. Geb., Dec, 1861, p. 447. < In this case a woman, a?t. 43, who had never conceived, but who had been regular, ceased to be so in April, i860. Swelling of the breasts, gastric irritation, and enlargement of the abdomen, were next noticed, and pregnancy suspected. On July 23rd she had a sudden attack of pain and bearing down. On examination it was thought that there was retroversion of a gravid uterus present, and pressure was made on the tumour, with the idea of reducing it. During this attempt there was a sudden escape of a bloody fluid from the vagina, and at the lowest part of the swelling was now found a small opening, that of the os uteri. The uterus had been filled with blood. In October menstruation again became regular. INFLAMMATION OF tTTEBT/S. EotTTH, Dr.—Lectures on Endometritis. Brit. Med. Journal, Feb. 22nd, March 1st, 8th. The object of this series of lectures is to restore " endometritis " to its just position in uterine pathology. The author, holding with Dr. Tyler Smith that very many of the uterine diseases we have to treat are secondary to inflammation of the mucous membrane of the cervix uteri, goes a step further, and accuses the entire uterine mucous mem- brane—not that of the cervix alone. Endometritis consists of four varieties:—1. The mucous variety, or ordinary uterine catarrh. 2. The muco-purulent variety, the discharge being mixed with pus, and opaque. 3. The sanguineo-purulent stage, when the discharge is tinged with blood and highly tenacious. 4. The stage of menorrbagia (?). These varieties are described in detail, and the means for their cure pointed out. The author employs in chronic cases dilatation of the cervix and injection of the uterine cavity with tincture of sesquichloride of iron. "When the mucous membrane is softened it is recommended to scrape it off by means of a gouge, and then to employ the injection. Route:, Dr.—Lecture on the Consequences of Endometritis. Brit. Med. Journal, May 3rd, 24th, 31st. The consequences of endometritis here described are—1. Mucous polypi, which, when within the uterus, frequently give rise to menor- rbagia, and the treatment for which is use of tents, removal of mucous membrane by gouge, and injection. 2. Dysmenorrhcea. 3. Occlusion of the os, external and internal, of which there are two varieties, the senile and the intermittent. 4. Physometra and hydrometra. 5. Dis- placement of the uterus, anteversion, and retroversion, which are accompanied always with more or less endometritis. The author finds both Simpson's and Moir's instruments for cure of retroversion objec- tionable, on account of the endometritis produced by them. He employs a lower stem, consisting of wire spirally arranged, and lying in