323 WORKS, PAPERS, ETC. ginal aperture, once; turning on the head in'oblique position of fetus by internal manipulation, once ; manual assistance in pelvic presenta- tions, three times. Of the 235 cases of occipital presentation there were 2 cases in which the head was in the fourth position ; both children were born alive, one naturally, one by the aid of the forceps. In both there was rotation of the anterior fontanelle from the back to the front. There was one case of face presentation. The labour lasted fifteen hours, the child living; the head measured in its long, oblique, and straight diameters equally, 5". In the pelvic presentation cases (six) the children were all, with exception of one premature child dead for some time, born alive. There was in one case prolapsus of funis by the side of the head; manual reposition effected, and a living child born. In one case there was a persistent funic souffle heard during the latter months, and the cord was found coiled three times round the neck of the child; the child was born alive. The author considers that, supposing such coiling to be the cause of this souffle, it is to be expected that it will, as was observed in the foregoing case, cease to be heard as the head and neck descend into the pelvis with the advance of the labour. Other circumstances, however, such as pressure of the head on the funis in cases of low insertion of the placenta, may give rise to the funic souffle. In a case related there was found an unusual adhesion between the surface of the membranes and the inner surface of the uterus in the neighbourhood of the os, which was so considerable as to delay the dilatation of the os for a considerable time. After breaking down of this adhesion by the finger the labour proceeded naturally. The amount of pelvic narrowing met with during the year was, if we consider only those pelves too narrow which interfere with the progress of the labour, very trifling. But if we accept the opinion of Michaelis and Litzmann, that a conjugate diameter of less than 3^" is the limit, there were, in the 242 cases observed, thirteen instances of narrow pelvis. In only one of these latter cases were there indications of rachitis; here, however, the pelvis was the most narrow of all. The actual measurements were—4^" once, 4^" once, 4" to 4^" in four cases, 4" in five cases, 3§" to 4'' in one case, and 3^" in one case. The deliveries in these cases were—natural in ten cases, in two the forceps were used and perforation employed once. The forceps cases were, as a rule, not those included in this series. Of the children in these cases, besides the perforation case, one was born dead, two stillborn, but recovered. There were three premature, three births at full time. In the per- foration case the diameter of the conjugata vera is estimated at 3", the results of external measurement giving 3%'' as that of the " conjugata diagonalia" diameter. The patient was a primipara. After the labour had lasted four days, the head not entering the pelvis, perforation was employed, the swollen lip of the os being first incised by a bistoury. The .child was alive until just before the operation was decided on. It was 20" long, weighed five and a half pounds, and the bones of the head were firm. The patient died twenty days afterwards, with signs of gangrene of the lungs.^ A cavity the size of a hen's egg was found in the right lung, containing an offensive detritus of a greenish colour. The uterus and appendages natural. The " conjugata vera" was 3", the pelvis rachitic. With reference to haemorrhage, it was observed in one