TONSIL. 303 knotted in the same order that they were introduced (from before back- wards). In the present case the edges of the fissure were most easily- approximated and without any apparent tension. " Rather severe fever and some erysipelas of the face ensued ; the soft palate became very red and swollen ; some of the sutures cut their way out, and the rest were removed on the 14th. The ultimate result, on. the 1 st of February, was that the fissure in the hard palate was firmly closed ; a little of the anterior part of the soft palate had united, and the rest had diminished in width by one half: the lateral incision and that in the soft palate had cicatrized. "On the 1ith February, staphyloraphy was again performed : after care- fully paring the edges, five silk sutures were introduced. Not only did I make an incision at the inner side of the hamular process, but I also divided on each side the anterior and posterior pillars.. Scarcely any reaction followed the operation, the sutures were removed in five davs, and in ten days the lateral incisions had cicatrized, and union was perfect. On the 1st of March, the harelip was operated ; and on the 31st of the same month, the patient was presented to the Medical Society. By the use of a needle, newly formed bone could be proved to exist in every part of the former fissure of the hard palate. The speech had become much clearer, though still very guttural. He can swallow both solids and fluids without the least difficulty." A case of great hypertrophy of the tonsil is reported from St. Bartholomew's Hospital ('Lancet,' 1861, ii, .372). A stout, agricultural labourer, forty years of age, but with the look of a man of fifty-five, was admitted in the month of June last for enlargement of the right tonsil. It caused some inconvenience, but was not then of unusual dimensions, and was excised by the tonsillotome. The man got well, and returned to his home in the country. About the end of September, he re-entered the hospital affected with dyspncea, dysphagia, and partial aphonia. On examining the throat, the entire back part of the mouth was filled by a large tumour, which seemed wholly to obstruct the passage downwards either into the oesophagus or larynx. It was readily made out to be the right tonsil, the one that had previously been enlarged. As the man's life was actually in danger from suffocation, Mr. Lawrence determined to remove the tumour, and he was brought into the operating theatre for the purpose on the 12th instant. As it was quite impossible to apply the tonsillotome, and as the risk of haemorrhage was very great, by the employment of the knife, a preference was given to the 6craseur. This was applied with a little management around the tumour, the chain encircling its base close to the wall of the pharynx; it was gradually tightened, and in the course of a quarter of an hour the growth was wholly detached. No haemorrhage whatever occurred, and the relief to the poor man was immediate and decisive. During the operation, which was done without chloroform, he sat in a chair, and had occasional attacks of dyspncea with frequent attempts to vomit. He loudly expressed his gratitude for being thus effectually relieved. The tumour was of the size of a hen's egg, but had shrunk a little on removal. It was lobulated, not hard, and on section presented the characters of simple hypertrophy of the true glandular structure, without