REPORT ON SURGERY. 2 GO and well saturated; it is then to be quickly folded as before arranged and laid on a flat surface, such as a board or a table, and smoothed once or twice with the hand in order to remove any irregularities of its surface, and then, with the help of an assistant, applied to the posterior surface of the limb. The portion extending below the heel is turned up on the sole of the foot, and the sides folded over the dorsum, and a fold made at the ankle on either side, and a roller bandage applied pretty firmly over all. The limb is then to be held in a proper position (extension being made, if necessary, by the surgeon), until the plaster becomes hard. The time required in preparing the cloth, mixing the plaster, and applying the casing to the limb, need not be more than fifteen minutes. After the plaster is firm, and the bandage removed, we have a solid plaster of Paris case partially enveloping the limb, leaving a portion of its anterior surface exposed to view. If any swelling occurs, evaporating lotions can be applied to the exposed surface, and we can always easily determine the relation of the fractured ends. If necessary, an anterior splint, made of the same material, can be applied, and then both bound together with ad- hesive plaster, and if desirable a roller bandage over all. If the anterior splint is not used, two or three strips of adhesive plaster, one inch wide, or bauds of any kind, may be applied around the casing, and will serve to keep it firmly adjusted to the limb. Thus applied, we have a most beautiful splint, partially enveloping the limb, making equal pressure, light, and allowing the patient to change his position in bed, or to sit up in a chair, or go about on crutches. To other fractures it may be applied in a similar manner: twelve cases are related in proof of its value. W. Roser recommends a starch-gypsum bandage ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1862, p. 87) ; according to him the starch bandage has the advantage of being very durable, the gypsum that of immediate firmness; both advan- tages are obtained by placing a gypsum bandage over the ordinary one with starch ; after a couple of days the starch has become hard and the gypsum covering may be removed. This method has been found very useful in the Marburg Clinic, in cases of talipes, diseased joints, and fractures. Professor Szymanowski writes at length on the gypsum ban- dage ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1862, pp. 339, 395). In many cases it has been found difficult to remove these bandages. M. Klever has found that the application of Acid. Mur. sufficiently diluted to have no action on the skin, renders them so soft, that they may be cut with a penknife or old pair of scissors. The patient may himself apply the fluid along the bandage, over the breadth of two or three fingers; in eight or ten minutes it will be ready for division. The Acid. Mur. dil. may be formed by equal parts of water and acid, or may contain one part of acid to two of water. A species of hinge may be readily formed in any part of the bandage by softening it along one line with this fluid, and then by dividing it in the necessary manner, valvular openings may be formed. The gypsum bandage should be prepared by soaking it in a mixture ot gypsum and water, and not by rubbing in dry plaster ; when made in the former manner, it remains firm when exposed to continued immersion in warm water. . , Dr. Markoe had recourse to the following means in a case ot fractured femur (• Amer. Med. Times,' 1862, ii, 163)instead of using a perineal