378 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. patient's ago was 41. The oa uteri was too small to admit the hand, and it was incised in three places. The tumour, fixed near the fundus, was twisted round on its long axis, but could not then be extracted. Pains, as of labour, set in a few hours later, and the tumour was expelled. The patient recovered. The pedicle was about two square inches in thickness. Hicks, Dr. Braxton.—Notes on two cases of Uterine Polypi. Guy's Hosp. Rep., vol. viii, p. 142. In one case there was a semi-malignant polypus of the uterus present, which was removed. Subsequently there was formation of similar growth in the fundus uteri, extending into the intestines. The patient's age was 47, the polypus one and a half inch in diameter, growing from a thickened os uteri. Death took place suddenly from diseased heart; the large mass found at the fundus uteri had the characters, below, of a fibrous tumour; above, it had the characters of a cerebriform tumour, and the tumour had penetrated the intestine. The second case was one of intra-uterine polypus, removed by Dr. Hicks' annealed steel-wire- rope ecraseur. The patient, set. 43, recovered. PERI-UTERINE DISEASES. Duncan, Dr. J. Matthews. — On Uterine Hematocele. Ed. Med. Journ., Nov., 1862. The author remarks that, although this disease is easily recognised and identified, many important points in its pathology remain still unsettled, the chief of these regarding the questions as to its various origins and its various situations. That in both these matters there is no uniform law, he feels convinced. Every possible source of bleeding in the neigh- bourhood of the affected parts has, on different occasions, been invoked, and many of them substantiated post mortem. With reference to the question as to the anatomical seat of the haemorrhage, the author con- siders that it remains yet to be determined conclusively, for although there can be no doubt that the haemorrhage does in some cases take place into the peritoneal cavity, yet it may be questioned whether the extra-peritoneal form of haemorrhage may not be a common form of the disease. And he remarks that it is natural to suppose that few proofs of it should be afforded post mortem, seeing that patients would pro- bably more often recover from it. The cephalhaematoma, but especially the thrombus of the vulva, offer themselves as analogies, and the author has several times seen similar effusions beneath the walls of the vagina in women dying in child-bed; again, sanguineous effusions do sometimes take place between the layers of the broad ligament. Moreover it is difficult to conceive how, if the effusion be intra-peritoneal, the uterus should so readily return to its natural mobility after a process of evacua- tion, suppuration, and collapse of the sac has been going on around it. The great distension of the recto-vaginal septum and pressure down- wards of the effused blood, which occur in the characteristic retro- uterine hamiatocele, render it difficult to suppose that the advancing mass is pushing the peritoneum before it. The absence of tenderness 111