PYiEMIA. 209 ulcer, four inches by three, covered with an ash-coloured secretion, surrounded by elevated granular edges, very painful, and throwing oft' an ichorous discharge, and which had existed thirty years, in spite of residence in some of the first hospitals in the kingdom, was perfectly cured in eleven weeks. The patient walked twelve miles each time he was dressed, and four every day to and from his work, and followed his occu- pation as gardener throughout the treatment. Dr. J. Rochard publishes a full account of the extraordinary " Cochin- china ulcer," which prevailed so extensively among the men of the French expedition to that country, there having been the large number of seven hundred cases in a force of five thousand six hundred. It in many respects resembled hospital gangrene, but differed in other and important particulars. Both the ulcerations and the surrounding tissues for some distance became anaesthetic; and its obstinacy was so great that of eight cases which had been invalided to France, and of which Hochard had taken notes, one recovered after amputation, one cicatrized, and the remaining six resisted all treatment. (' Arch. Gen.,' 1862, i, 667.) Pycemia; Septicemia; Hospital Gangrene. The present theories on pyeemia may be divided into two classes, the mechanical and the chemical. According to the latter, this affection is caused by the passage of certain fluid or gaseous substances into the blood ; although this theory is probably correct in regard to one class of cases, still no perfectly certain proofs have been found for it either by clinical or anatomical observation. According to the mechanical theory, emboli are mechanically produced by pus-corpuscles or by coagula in process of disintegration. E. Wagner has, however, in six cases found capillaries distended with fluid fat ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1862, p. 241), and from his very careful examinations he believes that in many cases the changes consist in embolism of the smaller arteries and capillaries with fluid fat, which has passed, most likely, from the primary centre of suppu- ration into the circulation, has been to a great extent arrested in the pulmonary capillaries, in part, however, has escaped through them into the arterial capillaries of the general circulation. In this way emboli and metastatic abscesses are produced, either in the lung or in the rest of the body. Dr. Bristowe, at the Pathological Society of London, brought forward a case of pysemia in connection with acute necrosis (' Trans. Path. Soc. Lond.,'xiii, 188), without any external wound. He had seen seven or eight such cases. In most of them the pericardium and heart were involved, and the patients were usually young. Professor Schuh defends at great length the doctrine that pyaemia is caused by purulent infection ('Med. Jahrb. Zeits.,' &c, 1862, ii, p. 16). He himself was in Germany one of the first to explain the rigors after surgical operations by the passage of pus or of products derived from its decomposition into the blood. The whole morbid state was soon generally considered to be produced through absorption, and such an opinion continued to prevail till quite recently, when some writers began to use pysemia only as a collective name of different conditions—of 14