415 DISEASES OF INFANTS. Eadetzkt.—The Pathology of Catarrhal Inflammation of the Lungs in Infants. Petersb. Med. Zeitsch., i, p. 147. The presence of a mucous plug in the bronchial passages prevents access of air, but allows exit of air already in the lungs. The efforts of coughing, &c, have the effect of driving the air still more completely out of certain parts of the lungs. Hence ensues collapse of lung-tissue, which collapse is intensified by pressure from surrounding healthy lung- tissue. The lung-tissue so collapsed is designated by the author " con- gestive acquired atelectasis." A further stage is " hemorrhagic," ac- quired atelectasis. In the various "pneumonias" of authors, we find different stages of the catarrhal lobular pneumonia. In the progress of this disease there are four stages:—1, atelectasis with congestion; 2, stage of inflammatory swelling; 3, purulent stage; 4, termination by resolution, abscess, or tuberculization. Barthez.—On the Expectant Treatment of Pneumonia in Children. Gaz. des Hop., No. 43, 1862. In the space of seven years 212 children between the ages of two and fifteen years, came under treatment for primary pneumonia, of these two died. Half of these cases were treated on the expectant system, and the majority of the rest merely with purgatives, emetics, or baths. In only a sixth were these powerful measures resorted to. The pneu- monia disappeared from the sixth to the eighth day ; in many cases earlier than this, and sometimes in twenty-four hours ; when double, the time occupied was fourteen days whatever the treatment. When more" severe remedies were used the duration of the disease was in- creased, so also the duration of the convalescent stage. When the lung is affected at the middle part, the cure most rapidly follows; pneu- monias of the base and of the apex are of nearly equal duration. The duration is longest when the whole of the upper part of the lung is affected. Double pneumonia lasts still longer. Keiller, Dr.—Infantile Leucorrhcea. Ed. Med. Journ., Nov., 1862. It is impossible to point out the difference between the discharge of gonorrhoea and that of simple leucorrhoea, there are no characteristic microscopic appearances. Great caution is necessary in expressing an opinion on the nature of discharges from the female genital organs. Leucorrhoeal discharges occur both in strumous and in healthy children ; sometimes dentition is the cause, at other times neglect of cleanliness. Sometimes these cases appear in an epidemic form. The discharge of leucorrhoea is more external, not vaginal as in adults ; the secretion is also more watery and adherent than that of gonorrhoea; the parts are not inflamed or very tender, they are all moist, and the secretion be- comes encrusted on the adjoining thighs. The child complains of itchiness, but there is no inflammation of the urethra, nor scalding the hymen is uninjured. The author believes with Mr. Wild of Dublin that leucorrhcea is contagious.