888 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. and utility; and, after remarks in support of this opinion, he describes, with the help of plates and diagrams, the instruments which he has devised for the purpose. Heferring to the questions of pelvic measurement, which may he solved with more or less exactness by his two instruments, Germann -says that one of them, resembling in its external form Baudelocque's callipers, may be employed for the following purposes : —i. To ascertain the measurements which are usually made with Baudelocque's instru- ment, the measurements, however, being expressed in Germann's pel- vimeter in centimetres as well as in Paris inches and lines. It may also be applied to determine the form of the pelvis by external measure- ment, and also to ascertain the depth of the pelvis. 2. Certain mea- surements, which cannot be made by Baudelocque's callipers, may be made by Germann's instrument, viz., the thickness of the vertebral column in the region of the promontory of the sacrum; the thickness of the sym- physis pubis and of the mons Veneris ; the semi-external conjugate diameter and, as far as possible, the distance of the sacrum from the acetabulum ; also the diameter between the lateral walls of the pelvis, and hence as far as possible, the transverse diameter of the cavity. By introducing one arm of the instrument into the urethra and bladder, the thickness of the abdominal wall in this part may be measured; and hence indirectly an estimate may be formed of the breadth of the head and the length and breadth of the body of the foetus. 3. The points especially determinable by the instrument, according to Germann, arc the depth of the symphysis pubis, the length of the true conjugate diameter, and the size of both the angles which the diagonal and true conjugate diameters form with the symphysis pubis, also the direct transverse diameter of the pelvis and the degrees at which the pelvic cavity is inclined with respect to the plane of the brim and the pos- terior wall of the pelvis to the symphysis pubis. 4. The male catheter attached to the instrument may be used with good effect, not only as a catheter, but in exceptional cases for injecting the uterine cavity. The silk thread attached to it is usefid for measuring the circumference of the new-born child's skull and of the pelvis, and also in turning. In exceptional cases also, and in the temporary absence of better instru- ments, one arm of the instrument may be employed for replacing the umbilical cord when prolapsed, and for other purposes. The objects of the other instrument are twofold:—1. It fulfils the same objects as are detailed above under (3), controlling the results obtained by the first instrument. 2. It enables the observer to determine the angles which the plane of the brim forms with the perpendicular axis of the body and with the horizontal plane. To describe with any degree of perspicuity the precise nature of the instruments in question would be difficult without the aid of drawings, of which several are appended to Germann's paper. MECHANISM OF DELIYERT. Hawaiian, Dr.—On the Mechanism of Labour. Dub. Quart., May, 1862, p. 467.