REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 442 of the peripheral nerves. To determine this point, the following series of experiments were made. In the first series the aorta was tied above its bifurcation; general insensibility was produced, just as if the circulation had not been inter- fered with. In a second series the ligature was applied at a short distance from the heart, so as to delay the action of the poison on the spinal cord ; the supervention of anaesthesia was correspondingly delayed, and reflex movement continued for a longer period. In all the experiments the animal retained the power of voluntary movement, from which the authors conclude that motility is at first unimpaired, and that all the effects observed depend upon diminished sensibility. It being admitted that the centre of sensibility is paralysed, it remains to be inquired whether the effect extends to the peripheral afferent nerves. The following experiment is regarded as affording a negative answer to the question. Sulphate of strychnine was inserted beneath the skin of a frog which had been rendered insensible by aconitine. On touching the skin tetanic spasms were induced, just as in an animal not previously poisoned by aconite. As in this experiment impressions must have been transmitted by the sensory nerves to the spinal cord, the authors argue that their functions could not have been affected. The action of aconitine on the circulation (in frogs) was marked by acceleration of the pulse (from 60 to 120), which was soon followed by a very rapid retardation (to 40 or even 30), the contractions becoming at the same time irregular. The authors regard this effect as due (at all events, in part) to the direct action of the poison on the heart. It has been already stated that the arrest of voluntary movement is sub- sequent to the effects which have been already described. The manner in which this takes place is illustrated by the following experiments: A frog was poisoned by the insertion of aconitine beneath the skin ; in five minutes respiratory movements had entirely ceased. On releasing the animal it remained motionless ; a minute after, slight retraction of the feet was induced by pinching ; two minutes later, the animal jumped three times forward. ' Subsequently, reflex movements were again in- duced by pinching the toes. Twenty-five minutes after the intro- duction of the alkaloid, when the contractions of the heart had almost ceased, the animal again made a leap forward. From this and similar observations the authors infer that the apparent paralysis of motion is entirely dependent on the loss of sensibility, for not only are reflex muscular contractions still possible, but the power of executing combined movements under the influence of the will is retained. Tbe voluntary character of these movements is shown by the fact that, in making them, the animal avoids obstacles, and that they cease if the eyes are destroyed. The loss of the power of voluntary motion is dependent exclusively on the action of the poison on the " centres of motility," not on the paralysis of the motor nerves or conducting fibres of the spinal cord, for these retain their excitability long after voluntary movements have ceased. Auother series of experiments, which resembled those performed by Kolliker and Bernard for a similar purpose in their investigations of tlie actious of curare, were undertaken to determine whether, at a later