328 REPORT OX MFDWirKltV, KTC. The diminution, in weight is distributed thus:—Foetus, 3*283 kilo- gramme; liquor amnii, 1-877 kilogramme; placenta, *6 kilogramme; loss through the lungs and skin, "150 kilogramme; excrements,'404 kilogramme ; blood, "250 kilogramme. It was found that the weight of the child was proportional directly to those of the placenta and liquor amnii. It was found that there is no relation of any kind between the mere size of the child and the duration of the labour, for when the child was proportionally small the labour was not thereby shortened. The author found—contrary to what has usually been supposed—that weakly, imperfectly nourished women do not have shorter labours than those in a better state of health, that is to say, taking the average of a number of cases. It was found that the weight of the liquor amnii steadily increased during the last half of pregnancy ; at the end of the seventh month (lunar) it was i'004 kilogramme; eighth month, 1*365; ninth, 1*618 kilogramme ; tenth month, 1*877 kilogramme. In a case of twins it was 4*01 kilo- grammes. The larger the child the greater the quantity of liquor amnii, and it was greater in pluriparaj than in primiparae. In 154 cases a change of position of the child occurred twenty-two times during the last three or four weeks, and in these cases the quan- tity of liquor amnii was "628 kilogramme in excess of the average, the phildren having a medium development. The causes of the change in eosition are partly the greater roominess of the uterus, in conse- quence of a relative increase of the liquor amnii with medium size of child, partly the active and passive movements of the foetus. In two cases where the child was turned round on the transverse axis tbe quantity of liquor amnii was still greater. In face, pelvic, transverse and funic presentations, the quantity was not inconsiderably increased. As a general result, it appeared that the nourishment of the child was in proportion to the nourishment of the mother ; hence it is probable that the weight of the mother is the best indication of the probable weight of the child. It is to be recollected that the results are liable to be affected by a variety of circumstances; thus, the same mother may give birth sometimes to large, at others to small children, the weight of i he mother is not always the same, but liable in itself to change ; and the weight relation between the child and mother does not always hold good; possibly it is influenced in exceptional cases from the father's side. (3) Variations in the weight of the mother during child-bed.—On an average, the loss of weight from secretions and excretions during the ■72 hours following delivery was 4*571 kilogrammes," or 8* 127. per cent, of the whole weight. The'loss was less in the same time when prema- ture labour had occurred. It is a little less in primipara?, greater when profuse losses of various kinds occurred. The diminution during the time mentioned above depends on several causes. The average quantity of lochia! discharge was, daring the first five days, 1 kilogramme; the milk taken away during the first eight days was 2*15 kilogrammes. (4) Differences iii weight produced by birth and the puerperal processes up to eight days after birth.—A woman who weighed at the normal end of pregnancy 63*245 kilogrammes lost on an average n'395 kilogrammes, or 18*02 per cent.