291 TONGUE. anterior edge of the masseter muscle; another incision was then drawn backwards along the margin of the jaw to a little beyond its angle; the second molar tooth was extracted, and the jaw cleared at that part suf- ficiently to be sawn through ; the soft parts were then separated from its inner surface, so far as to allow a kind of lateral dislocation; the jaw being turned round and held upwards,—for this purpose the pterygoid was entirely, but the temporal muscle only partially separated. By com- mencing at its lower part, the tumour was at first separated without much difficulty; near the angle of the jaw, however, both the external and internal carotids had to be ligatured, in addition to a number of smaller vessels. The pneumogastric nerve was sought for in vain; portions of the hypoglossal and gustatory nerves were necessarily removed, half of the velum palati was excised, and a part of the tumour carefully dissected from the larynx. When every portion of diseased tissue had been sought out and removed, the jaw was replaced in its proper position, a bone- suture inserted, and the patient removed to bed. On the next and the following day the patient could exercise considerable force with his jaw ; it moved in a perfectly normal manner. On the third day death took place, with symptoms of acute pulmonary oedema; dissection showed that the pneumogastric ran through the tumour and that this portion of it had been excised. Numerous circumscribed pneumonic spots in the stage of red hepatization, just such as occur after section of the pneumogastric on an animal, were found in the lungs. The tumour was found to be a sar- coma of the lymphatic glands, in part, however, of a purely medullary nature. It results from this case that just as free access to the deeper parts may be gained by such a temporary displacement of the jaw, as by its entire excision: the author is convinced that, if the patient had lived, the jaw would have united perfectly.* Mr. C. H. Moore, observations on the division of the gustatory nerve, and on ligature of the lingual artery, in the treatment of cancer of the tongue ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,' xlv, 47). Very distressing are the symp- toms, which often accompany this disease. There is the darting, electric pain in the tumour itself. There is the sensitiveness of the cancerous ulcer to all contact with the teeth or with matters taken into the mouth. There is the suffering due to the ceaseless movements of this muscular organ, and to those of the jaw, when the tongue is adherent to it. There is the anguish occasioned by the encroachment of the disease upon the nerves, and sometimes by their ulceration and exposure. The parotid region, that of the ear, the temple and the crown of the head, are some- times as much complained of as the tongue itself, for the fifth nerve sympathises through many of its branches with the irritation of its gus- tatory portion. The glossopharyngeal and the sympathetic nerves have doubtless likewise their share of pain. At the same time the salivary glands, stimulated by the irritation of the fifth nerve, pour forth a copious and constant flow of saliva, which in some cases, amounts to two pints or more in twenty-four hours, and by the expectoration of which the other pains are aggravated. Added to all this, there is often a train of painful * I may here remark that Mr. Guthrie proposed a very similar operation for the pur- pose of ligaturing the internal carotid (' Med. Times,' 1850, ii, 134).—T. W.