105 ( [RCULATOKY SYSTEM. Wa i; burton Begbie.—W. Edin. Med. J., Oct. •Records a case of malignant disease of the oesophagus succeeded by sudden pericarditis, and ultimately by pneumopericardium with effusion. The signs were friction-sound with dull percussion, succeeded after a few days by a guggling or churning sound with the heart's action, and tym- panitic precordial resonance. Neumann, E.—On Cyanotic Endocarditis. Deutsche Klinik, 52, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 180. Neumann contends, on the authority of three cases, that cyanotic disturb- ance of the circulation may induce endocarditis, giving rise to thickening and puckering of the mitral and tricuspid, or semilunar valves. Salter, Hyde.—On Regurgitant Aortic Disease. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 1 st, 8th. Salter insists that any source of dyspnoea induces a condition of hyper- distension of the lungs and chest, temporary if the source of the dyspnoea is temporary, abiding if abiding. This causes displacement of the heart, and unless the fact be borne in mind erroneous conclusions may be drawn as to the existence of emphysema, heart-disease, and various other conditions. Oppolzer.—Diagnosis of Insufficiency of the Aortic Valves. Brit. Med. J., March 29. Spitals-Zeitung, Dec. 21st, 1861. After remarking on the hypertrophy of the heart which occurs in these cases, Oppolzer cautions against considering a diastolic murmur in all instances as indicating aortic-valve disease, for if it ends hi a heart-sound it may depend on roughness of the lining membrane of the aorta. On the other hand, aortic insufficiency may be safely diagnosed, although the second sound is heard, provided this be immediately followed by a murmur. This results from part only of the valve being imperfect. On examination of the more distant arteries, the carotid, brachial, or crural, a loud sound is heard, or a distinct rasping murmur, accompanying the ventricular systole, while the second (diastolic) sound, which should be normally heard, is either absent or replaced by a murmur. If, together with the aortic, there be also mitral disease, the pulse, instead of being strong, full, and jerking, will be small, and the systolic sound will be absent. Lyons, R. D.—Commentaries on Diseases of the Heart and Vessels. Dublin Q. J. of Medical Sc., May 1862. Lyons remarks 011 the occurrence of irregular and intermittent heart and pulse, without discoverable organic disease. He has met with this state not uncommonly in persons of sixty years of age, and also in those from thirty to forty, in the latter as the result of the prostration occasioned by recent alcoholic excesses. In elderly persons he has observed also a remarkably slow and laboured condition of the circulation, the pulse being' about forty, and the impulse of the heart very weak. He ascribes all these states to a weakened and probably fatty condition of the ventricles'. A similar condition probably exists in another class of persons, who are rather