GENERAL ANATOHY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 329 (5) Subsequent increase of weight. On this point there were only a few observations made. In six cases the loss which had occurred during the puerperal state was replaced three to four weeks after delivery. Earle, Dr. J. L.—The Mammary Signs of Pregnancy and of Recent Delivery. Lond. Med. Eev.,' Feb., March, April, 1862. The author believes that, as a rule, too little attention is bestowed on the examination of the breasts as a means of diagnosis of pregnancy, and that the fallacies attending the deductions made therefrom are not so considerable as is usually imagined. He urges the fact that an examina- tion of the breasts is often practicable when no other examination is admissible, and that the breasts offer changes of a distinguishing cha- racter at a very early period of pregnancy. The various changes are then systematically examined, one by one, and the particular value of each designated. The more important results are summed up as fol- lows :—1. Both breasts should be examined. 2. Any of the mammary signs may be found absent in an individual case, but the instances are rare in which all the mammary signs are absent at the same time. 3. The mere enlargement of the breasts, as apparent to the eye, is of no value in the diagnosis of pregnancy, while the sensations imparted to the finger by the hypertropbied condition of the proper gland structure is of considerable importance. 4. The pain is the least valuable of the mammary signs. 5. The enlargement of the veins is a very important sign, especially when the enlargement is considerable, and, above all, when the veins traverse the areola; as far as he has at present noticed venous branches traversing the areola are characteristic of pregnancy. 6. The white streaks or scars are conclusive evidence of a present or former pregnancy, and in the generality of cases it is an easy matter to distinguish whether they are the product of a previous or present gesta- tion. 7. The increase of the diameter is most important in primiparse. 8. The increase of the colour of the areola is most important in the latter months of pregnancy and in primiparae. 9. The raised condition of the areola is characteristic of pregnancy, and is most frequently present in primipara?. 10. A shining appearance of the areola, like polished mahogany, is very characteristic of pregnancy. 11. The secondary areola is a conclusive sign, and is generally most distinctly marked in primipara;. 12. The nipple is of no or very slight import- ance in questions of pregnancy. 13. The branny scales on the apex of the nipple, though not characteristic of pregnancy, are of great value if they exist in large quantities, and if a small amount of fluid can also be expressed from the nipple. 14. The mere projection of the follicles is of no importance, unless they are present in a laz-ge number, but are conclusive evidence of pregnancy if they contain sebaceous material. 15. The areola should be placed on the stretch in doubtful cases (a), because if no follicles are present, others may be brought into view by this means; and (£) if follicles are present with an apparent absence of the sebaceous matter, the artificial extension of the areola may make that secretion visible. 16. In multipara! the most important mammary sign during the early months of pregnancy is the sebaceous-containing follicle. 17. In primipara? the most important signs during the early