REPORT ON" PRACTICAL MKDICIXK. 168 Lehmann, L.—Diffusion through the Skin in Bathing. Virchow's Areli. xxii., p. 133, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 171. In twenty-six careful experiments with three boys under the age of eight years, Lehmann was unable to obtain conclusive evidence of the absorp- tion of water by the skin. The epiantity of urine secreted in a given time after bathing was greater than in the same time before. SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. Skinner, T.—On the Granulation of Medicines.—Brit. Med. J., Feb. 15th. Skinner advocates this method, which consists in mixing the powdered substances with mucilage, drying and then coarsely pulverizing them, so as to reduce them to granules, which are then separated by sieves into differ- ent sizes, drieddf necessary, and lastly coated with strong tincture of tolu. He thinks that drugs prepared in this way are more permanent and more easily taken. Greeves, A. F. A.—Lancet, Feb. 1. Recommends an Australian bark from the tree " Atherospernum Mos- chetum " in bronchitis and heart-disease. A decoction is made with 5 ] 61 the bark to Oj of Avater, boiled 10-15 minutes. Pruntjs Virginiana (Wild Cherry-bark) is highly esteemed by American physicians. It is reputed to be powerfully tonic, calmative of nervous irritability, and an arterial sedative. It is used in nervous dyspepsia, gastralgia, coughs, general debility, and in the sequela? of influenzal catarrhs. —Lancet, Feb. 8. Gelseminum semrervivens (Yellow Jasmine) is stated (Lancet, Dec. 6th) to act as a nervous sedative, producing an agreeable languor with considerable muscular relaxation. Li larger doses it causes giddiness, dim- ness of vision, dilated pupil, general muscular debility and prostration, reducing the frequency and force of the pulse, and the frequency of respira- tion, and producing insensibihty to pain, but without stupor or delirium. After a short time these symptoms pass off, leaving no impleasant effects. Its chief use is in sthenic idiopathic fevers, the dose varying from three to fifty drops. . Becquet recommends the following paste in dental caries: Acidi Arscniosi 33, Morphia? 5y, Creasoti q. s. In twenty-four hours after the cavity has been dressed with this, the tooth has lost all sensibility.—Bull, de Thcr., lxiii, Aug. 1862. Gardner (Lancet, Dec. 6th) recommends the Verbascum Thapsus (common Mullein) as a very efficient sedative. It is useful in bronchial catarrh, both taken internally and smoked. The dry loaves are used for smoking, and a tincture is prepared from the flower stalks when the plant is coming to seed.