349 11,'EMORMIAGE. amount the loss of blood. A fourth series of cases (35 to 46) is given at page 154. The author states that he has seen a large number of cases iu which a dangerous draining has been going on from the uterus for some hours after the termination of the labour, accompanied by faintness and violent uterine contractions, producing intense suffering, such as is described by patients as being more unbearable than the strongest labour-throes. These cases, unless some part of the placenta had remained behind, depend on a quantity of coagulated blood having collected in the uterine cavity, which gives rise to efforts at expulsion on the part of the uterus. The tenacity of the coagula causes them to adhere strongly to the uterine walls ; the contractions, instead of dis- lodging them, merely squeeze away the serum, rendering the coagula themselves more and more firm, until in time little is left but the fibrin itself. The removal of these can only be effected by the hand, and the pains thereafter cease completely. Respecting these forty-six cases of unavoidable haemorrhage before delivery, the author remarks that they were the most fatal cases by far which had occurred in his obstetric practice, excepting those where extensive lesions had taken place. In Case 45, although the child had been extracted, although the pla- centa was expelled, and although the uterus was firmly contracted, the bleeding continued, and could not be checked by any means which were attempted, and death occurred; there was no suspicion of rupture of the uterus. Of the total number of cases of unavoidable haemorrhage here related eleven cases were of entire placental presentation, seven- teen of partial placental presentation, and eighteen where the placenta was near to, though not over, the os uteri. Of the eleven entire pla- centa presentation cases, in ten the child was turned, in one the pla- centa was expelled first. In two of these ten the pelvis was so con- tracted that the head had to be opened after the body was born. Pour children were born living and seven dead, one of the latter putrid (and two craniotomy). Seven women recovered and four died. Of the seventeen partial presentation cases, in two the feet were at the brim; they were delivered footling, one living one putrid; and head had to be perforated, pelvic contraction being present. Both mothers re- covered. In five turning performed; four of the women did well, one died ; three of the children born alive, two dead. In seven cases delivery effected naturally, after artificial rupture of the membranes ; four of the children born alive, three dead; all seven women did well. Three were delivered by forceps ; two died, one recovered; of children, two born dead, one living. Of the last series, viz., eighteen, in which the placenta was attached near to the os uteri, three were breech presentations, one trans- verse; all these were extracted by the feet; all the children alive, all mothers recovered. In nine the children were expelled naturally, after artificial rupture of membranes. Seven of them were stillborn, one putrid, two living. Of the nine women, seven recovered and two'died. Four were delivered by turning, head presenting; one of these children was born alive, and three dead. Three of the mothers recovered one died. One was delivered by craniotomy, the child putrid; the mother recovered. Thus, of the whole forty-six cases, nineteen were delivered