NERVOUS SYSTEM. 73 Wilks and Murchison.—Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 4th. Record cases of syphilitic epilepsy cured by the administration of potass, iod. Ramskill.—On Oxalate of Cerium in Epilepsy. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 4th. This remedy has proved serviceable in some cases, having as an aura, or premonitory symptom of the attack, some commotion of the stomach or duodenum evidenced by a feeling of agitation at the epigastrium, accom- panied by a sense of sinking, faulting, and disordered movements, but un- connected with palpitation. It has not been of use in any other forms of the disease. Ramskill supposes the aura to depend upon failure of action in the splanchnic ganglia. Payne, A. J., M.D.—On Epilepsy as a result of Malarious Affection. In- dian Annals, No. 14, p. 597. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan. 1862. This form in its paroxysms resembles epilepsy, but admits of a much more hopeful prognosis. It follows, but sometimes after a long period, on malarious infection, which may not have shown itself in paroxysms of ague at any period; so that the convulsive seizures may become the only ac- tive symptoms. Cases of infantile convulsion are frequently seen in Calcutta, which stand in very close relation to malarious epilepsy. In all of these qui- nine affords a cure. Payne considers that an hydremic state of blood is the most important element in the pathology of this class of disorder. He praises the nitric-acid bath as the best therapeutic agent, and corroborates Dr. Hammond's statement of its antiperiodic action. . Anstie.—On Individual Remedies in Epilepsy. Med. T. and Gaz., April 5th. In twelve eases oleum morrhvuewas employed alone, in three it failed, and in three it produced some benefit, and in six it appeared to cure. Quinine was useless in two cases, cured in three, and was of much benefit in one. Phosphorus and iron have been of some service. Of sedatives, opium, henbane, sulphate of aniline, and belladonna had been tried, the latter without any encouraging results; while the three former certainly seem to have the power of delaying the fit, or mitigating its severity. Anstie gives the preference to the aniline, gr. j. ter die, with gr. j. additional on the occurrence of any prodromata. Ogle, J. W.—On a proposed Remedy (a species of Galium) for Epilepsy and other Spasmodic Affections. Lancet, May 10th. At 'lam, in the Drome department in France, the expressed juice of the gahum is administered annually in the months of May and September, when the plant flowers, to 800 or 900 patients. They last for twenty-four hours, children for twelve, before taking in the morning $iv-v of the juice Alter this a lrght meal is given, and then they return to a light diet, from winch coffee, wine, beer, liqueurs, dark-coloured and cured meats are ex- cluded. Alter leavmg Tain, the remedy is still continued in the f,,rm of tui.ii-tti-s, which are to be taken in increasing doses till they purge slightly then omitted for eight days, and then resumed. An infusion of" wi'id