FEVElt ACCOMPANYING SURGICAL AFFECTIONS. 189 danger through extensive and continually recurring suppurations. The author is far from drawing positive conclusions from these few obser- vations, yet he cannot leave this subject without mentioning the following negative results: . 1. The treatment with ice has no striking influence on the duration of the traumatic fever; it does not materially shorten it. 2. It does not prevent the occurrence of diffuse phlegmon. 3. It does not prevent the development of extensive inflammations around recent injuries of the bones and of the consequently long and re- peated secondary fevers. The effect of ice applied to parts already inflamed is quite different; in such cases, and especially in those where suppurative inflammations are spreading around wounds, it acts as an excellent antiphlogistic. It is in progressing inflammations with a tendency to suppuration, in such condi- tions as occur after compound fractures, after resections or wounds of the joints, that ice is principally indicated and especially effective. So far the author perfectly agrees with Esmarch when he enlarges on the incom- parably better results of this treatment than of that with poultices. Treatment of progressing suppurations by poultices and the continued toater-bath.—The poultice or the constant application of moist warmth promotes suppuration, or, as it is said, maturates ; it also acts as a stimu- lant when applied to unhealthily suppurating surfaces. Thus it was very natural to employ it to promote the removal of sloughs from contused parts or in wounds which discharged a thin sanies. To apply a poultice to a suppurating wound was, indeed, an advance in comparison with the ancient practice with plasters and salves. In cases, however, where suppuration is spreading, its use is attended by some unpleasant results ; the wounds become relaxed, the parts around sodden and swollen, the escape of pus impeded, and the matter itself thin and bad. The continued water-bath has all these defects to a still greater degree when employed in deep and far-extended phlegmon ; the soft parts swell exceedingly, and the escape of pus is more impeded than by any other treatment; and although the patient often complains of but little pain, still the destruction of the deeper parts steadily progresses. " I consider the water-bath to have a directly injurious effect in extensive subcutaneous, peritendinous, and perimuscular suppurations." Treatment of progressing suppurations ivith ice.—No method of treating the secondary suppurations which occur after resections, amputations, wounds of joints, &c, is superior to that with ice ; at the same time sufficient counter-apertures must always be made. The author found, as the result of this treatment, that the inflammation rarely spreads further, that the pains cease, and that the fever diminishes. The wound generally remains pale, and the pus is thin and scanty, effects which are, however, of no importance. When the inflammation becomes circum- scribed and the patient free from fever, the ice may be discontinued ; the process of healing will then take its regular course. The absence of fever may be taken as an indication to discontinue the ice; should it, however, recommence, the ice must be at once reapplied, and improvement will soon again result. It is only by carefully watching the fever that we can act with certainty ; in such cases its dependence on the inflammatory