!<;•_> IM'.l'OKT ON PRACTICAL MK1HCIM-:. Guyon.—Leprosy removed by Change of Climate. Billet. Gen. de The rap., May 30th, 1862. Brit. Med. J., Aug. 2nd. Guyon records an instance in which after one child had died, two younger who presented traces of the same disease were removed from a tropical country to France. The disease was arrested and the offspring of these children is quite healthy. Guyon does not think that removal would avail when once the disease was fully developed. Founeaux-Johdan.—On Fibro-Cellular Annulus of the Leg, with Cases. Med. T. and Gaz. March 1st. The disease appears as an annular enlargement surrounding the lower part of the leg above the malleoli. It is about three inches wide, and one inch thick at the centre, the margin being thinner, but tolerably defined. An enlargement possessing similar structural characters, of a form irregu- larly round at the circumference and convex on the surface, is found not uncommonly between the outer aukle and heel. It may exist alone or in conjunction with the supra-malleolar ring. Both varieties are soft, elastic, and free from pain or tenderness. The skin is perfectly healthy. In most cases the surface generally is cold and livid. The general health is not seriously impaired. Furneaux- Jordan believes the annulus to consist of connective tissue, and to result from a slow, slight, and formative inflam- matory process. All the known cases have occurred in women, mostly in the young. The catamenical function is usually impaired. Hardy.—On the treatment of Psoriasis. J. de Med. et de Chir.-Pratiq., March, 1862. Edin. Med. J., April. During the inflammatory stage of psoriasis Hardy prescribes emollient and alkaline baths, and laxative ptisans. In the second stage he administers arsenic, and at the end of this period, when the disease has become chronic and stationary, he has recourse further to ointments con- taining mercury, sulphur, or pitch. Huile de cade he uses, combined with glycerine and starch. Kollett, E.—Wien, Med. Wochenschr. xii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb. vol. 116, p. 182. Eelates a case of pemphigus, in which the eruption appeared in a some- what modified form, on the mucous surface of the lips, gums, cheeks, and palate, and on the nasal mucous membrane. The delicacy of the epithelium prevents the formation of bulla?, there appear instead shallow, red depres- sions. Bazin.—J. de Med. de Chir.-Pratiq. Dec. 1862. Varies his treatment of eczema according to its special character. If it be scrofulous he gives iodide of iron and ol. morrh.; if it be herpetic he uses arseniate of iron or of ammonia; if arthritic he administers soda. Hop infusion is also to be taken by the scrofulous, and saponaria or fumitory by the arthritic and herpetic. Emollient applications are suitable in all kinds of eczema at the outset, and astringent in the later periods. Sulphate of iron ointment is useful in arthritic eczema, sulphurous baths in