ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF TELVIS. 343 inade. It seemed probable tbat tbe body of the lowest lumbal' vertebra bad sunk forwards and downwards over the superior part of the sacrum. At ii a.m. on the 19th the os was the size of a thaler; the presentation could not be felt; pains regular and strong; foetal heart distinctly heard; exploration not easy, owing to tightness of the passages. The author now regrets that he did not perform the Cesarean section at*1 this period of the labour. A series of unfortunate incidents, however, next occurred, which rendered' the operation scarcely admissible. At 2 p.m. the waters escaped, the os being still not quite dilated. Me- conium and fluid came away together, and the funis became prolapsed into the vagina, still felt pulsating. The head was distinguished with some difficulty as presenting, still high up and at the right side of the pelvis. Eeposition of the cord was evidently useless with the head in this position. The alternatives were turning on the feet, with subse- quent extraction of the head by dragging, or by use of forceps, or per- foration, or cephalotribe. Under chloroform turning was attempted. The right hand was introduced on the left side of the mother. The waters had now (half an hour after rupture) escaped entirely; the uterus firmly contracted; the os recontractcd; pains severe, nearly continuous, spite of the chloroform; the funis still pulsating. The soft parts as well as the hard parts offered so much resistance to the intro- duction of the right hand that the left, the smaller, was tried. More- over, the head being in the third position, the feet were to be sought for anteriorly. The patient lying on the right side, the left arm was introduced, and with much difficulty the right foot was reached ; it was impossible to reach the left. The' right foot was drawn into the vagina. No endeavour, however, succeeded in actually turning the child; the head could not be pushed back or the breech brought down, the uterus being so firmly contracted. The funis had now ceased to pulsate. During the attempts at turning a considerable haemorrhage occurred, due, probably, to slight separation of the placenta. A pair of long forceps were now attempted to be applied, but they could not be locked. It was now considered advisable to give the patient some rest, the foot having been replaced, and pains allowed to act on the head. From 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. the pains, though very severe, did not affect the posi- tion of the head, which with difficulty was felt through the swollen lips of the os uteri. The pulse was now very quick, irregular, and there was a slight, continuous haemorrhage ; and it was evident that, unless speedily delivered, there was no hope of saving the patient's life. Dr. Spondli saw the case at 95 p.m., and thought it best to endeavour again to turn and also to diminish the size of the head. He endeavoured to turn, but it was found impossible ; the right foot could be brought down, but no other part. The limb lying in the way of perforation, &c, it was cut across at the knee-joint, and removed. Scanzoni's cephalo- tribe was now introduced, but embraced such a small part of the fcetal head that it slipped twice. The trepan-shaped perforator was now em- ployed ; but the head being movable, the outer table of the skull only was perforated. The bleeding was now so great that further operative measures were necessarily for a time suspended, and the patient died undelivered at the hour of half-past eleven. Alter death the uterus