244 REPORT ON SURGERY. Soc. ('Lancet,' 1862, i, 147) seven additional cases in which aneurism of the extremities had been successfully treated by flexion of the limb: in the first case there was a popliteal aneurism, of the size and shnpe of a large lemon ; Mr. Hart desired in this case to separate the effect of treatment by flexion as clearly as he could from any collateral or adjuvant agencies. He did not, therefore, employ any form of medical treatment whatever, nor did he invalid the patient by enjoining the hori- zontal position and confinement to .bed. He rolled the leg in a flannel bandage from the foot upwards, stopping below the tumour so as not to compress it in any way. He then bent the leg on the thigh, and retained, it in the flexed position by means of three pieces of bandage attached to the ankle and along the leg. The patient was allowed to rise and go about the room by the help of a crutch. The cure was practically effected in six days, without the use of any apparatus—without the intervention of any watchers or assistants—without risk or danger. The patient was cured of popliteal aneurism—a disease formerly so formidable—without being confined for a day to bed. The second case was one of popliteal aneurism, treated by Mr. Spence; the superficial femoral was tied in May, 1857, with the effect of producing solidification of the tumour. But the pulsation recurred a few days before his second admission, in August, 1858, and the tumour was then as large and pulsating as violently as before the artery was tied. Compression was carefully employed over a period of upwards of five months, but the tumour was at the end of that time increasing instead of diminishing. Treatment by flexion was commenced on the 20th of May, 1859, and on the 23rd of June, there was not the slightest pulsation to be felt in the aneurism, which was firm and consi- derably diminished in bulk. Since his discharge, he has returned to his usual occupation of coal-carter, which requires him to walk considerable distances; but when last seen, there was no (endency to return of the aneurism. The remaining cases were treated by Messrs. Pemberton, Craven, Adams, Colles, and Prichard. Mr. Hart remarks, that the first results of any method of treatment are likely to be less perfect and less uniformly successful than those which follow upon a larger experience and a more assured application. It is probable that attention to certain points of detail may tend to prevent pain and inconvenience. By carefully ban- daging the limb, support is given to the superficial veins and rest to the contracted muscles. Friction of the limb upwards may serve the same purpose. Inunction of the knee-cap with oil and chloroform diminishes the sensation of stiffness and relieves pain. By allowing the patient to rise from his bed and dress himself, much of the tedium is obviated and coagu- lation of the fibrin aided. Sleep follows much earlier at night. Any favorite habit, such as smoking, may be usefully permitted, with the same object. It is desirable to bespeak the assistance of the patient himself, by explaining the nature of the malady and treatment. Flexion should be employed with care and graduated. Failures had mostly occurred through employing the flexion too forcibly at first, and not allowing the patient enough liberty of general action. Dr. B. Schmidt gives an account of an aneurism of the radial artery (' Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1862, p. 569) which occurred in an infant of twenty weeks, and was cured by cotupressiou of the brachial.