MEDICAL STATISTICS. 487 for determining the rate of mortality, and points out their various degrees of accuracy. The rate of mortality being a ratio between three elements— i, living men; 2, time; and 3 deaths—one of which elements cannot be determined directly (for it is practically impossible to enumerate the numbers living in any district at any given moment), the statistician is compelled to resort to indirect methods, which furnish either exact or proximate results, according as (a) the population is known or assumed to be stationary, (b) the population increases by equal numbers in equal times, or (c), as is usually the case, the population increases in equal proportions in equal times. The last case is illustrated by examples taken from the vital statistics of England. In the second part of the paper the author shows that the expectation of life or, as he calls it, the mean after-life- time, can be deduced from the rates of mortality at the several ages, and explains the method of determining the number of survivors out of a given number born at the end of each year of age, from o to 100, or, in other words, the construction of a life table. Bektillon.—Studies in Pathological Geography, being researches and statistical conclusions on the comparative mortality from Pulmonary Phthisis in the Canton of Geneva, in England, Belgium, and certain towns of France, and on the mortality from Phthisis of the Army and Navy. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xviii, pp. 102—140. The purpose of this paper is to show that the investigation of the mortality from phthisis is not only one of the most important branches of statistical inquiry, but one of the most practicable, provided that the inquirer is furnished with complete information as to the ages of the living and dying. He laments that, for want of such information, he is compelled to reject the public mortuary records of his own country, and to found his conclusions mainly on those of England, Geneva, and Belgium. In these three countries the annual mortality from phthisis /number of deaths from phthisis = S \ , . , „ , ,.. I i—: ~ /> the relative prevalence of phthisis N population = r ' r 1 as compared with other causes of death (— where D signifies the morta- lity from all causes), and the liability to death from phthisis at those periods of life in which it is most fatal are succesively investigated. The ratio — varies in the three countries from 25 to 49 per 10,000. It is highest in Limbourg, a province of Belgium, lowest in Luxembourg, a contiguous province of the same country. The ratio ^ varies from g- to -. It is lowest in London, where the deaths from phthisis consti- tute 115 per 1000 of the general mortality ; highest in Limbourg. The two relations are not consistently contradictory, but the results derivable from them are apparently irreconcilable. The one demonstrates that phthisis is a more frequent cause of mortality in the province of Namur in Belgium, than in Paris or London ; the other that the mortality from