384 EKPOKT ON MTDWIFEltY, ETC. cially of the vomiting, and died the same day. The peritoneum con- tained a considerable quantity of pus ; there was universal inflammation of the peritoneum. The right side of the pelvis and iliac fossa was filled by a sac containing fluid; this was an ovarian sac, and there was found in it a small, ulcerated opening, from which a large amount of greenish pus escaped. A bundle of hair was found in the sac, floating, and free of attachment. The uterus of the sac itself was intensely inflamed. The symptoms closely resembled those due to irritant poison. Simpson, Dr. Alexander E.—Tumour of the Ovary, and Peritoneal Hydatids. Ed. Med. Journ., May, 1862. This was a rare form of ovarian disease. The patient, aet. 22, single, had had menstrual suppression for nearly a year, soon after which the abdomen began to swell, and she was shortly obliged to leave her situa- tion. The last two months, growth very rapid, strength failing. Pains in the left iliac region, pains in the stomach, had been lately felt, and for three weeks there had been a yellowish discharge from the vagina, and for two weeks dropsy of the ankles had been noticed. Tapping was performed, and 190 ounces of a greenish-yellow fluid drawn off", and a month later performed a second time, ten days after which she died. The cyst was found to have ruptured, and its .contents passed into the abdominal cavity ; the peritoneum was extensively inflamed ; there were " a series of remarkable bodies in the subperitoneal cellular tissue of the pelvis, which appeared to be hydatigenous formations." Demaequay.—Apoplexy of the Ovary; connection bettveen Disease of the Ovary and Metrorrhagia. Graz. des Hop., No. 6, 1862. A case is related in which a woman, who' had been delivered six months before, was the subject of metrorrhagia. An easily bleeding ulcer was observed at the os uteri, on the cauterization of which the bleeding ceased. At the next menstrual period, however,-severe pain was felt in the abdominal region, and death took place with signs of peritonitis. Pus was found in the small pelvis, the uterus covered with false mem- brane, the right ovary in a state of suppuration. In the left ovary, which was covered with inflammatory deposit, and the size of a nut, were found several hsemorrhagic spots. Nicholson, John P.—Ovarian Cysts. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 15th, 1862. Two interesting cases are here related. In the first the patient , a t. 42, died.when five months pregnant, after nine days' illness ; the symptoms were .obscure ; they were those of decided peritonitis, and it was thought possible that there was extra-uterine pregnancy with rupture into Douglas's fossa, She died excessively prostrated and tympanitic. On post-mortem examination there was found no peritonitis; there was effusion of a bloody, tenacious fluid on the right side, about the csecum, and this was found to proceed from an ovarian multilocular cyst, which was connected to the right side of the uterus and had the size of a child's head; the uterus normal, and containing a five months' foetus. There was no suspicion of the presence of an ovarian cyst previously.