470 REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. brain-substance (especially the gray matter) was congested; the raucous membrane ot the larynx and bronchial tubes was injected, the external surlace ot the lungs marbled with shades of colour varying from rose to purple, and numerous ecchymoses were observable both under the costal and pulmonary pleura. On section, both lungs were found to be con- gested, and the left base was infiltrated with fine froth, either colourless or tinged with blood. The substance of the heart was hyperamic and flaccid, and its cavities contained dark, tarry blood. From these ap- pearances, and from the symptoms recorded during life, the experts concluded—" that the proximate cause of death was the disordered function of the brain and lungs, the more remote toxarmia by breathing an irrespirable gas," and that the previously existing bronchial catarrh could not be regarded as contributing to the fatal termination (p. 24). The chemical investigation of the organs yielded negative results. As regards the extraordinary fact that gas had escaped in such quantity aa to prove fatal without its smell being perceptible until after the patient's death, the experts were of opinion that the gas had been deprived of its odorous constituents by passing through moist, sandy earth and masonry, but that as soon as these materials were saturated, the charac- teristic odour became perceptible. Odt.—A case of Suffocation by the Ftmes of Live Coals. British Med. Journ., Jan. nth. A labourer and his wife retired to rest in a small (800 cubic feet capacity) uuventilated bedroom, taking with them a shovelful of live cinders and coals, which were placed in the grate. About an hour after, groans and unusual noises, as if of retching, were heard by the neighbours, who, on forcing an entrance into the cottage, found the woman already dead, and the man lying insensible on the floor. On the admission of air he gradually regained consciousness. He described his symptoms as follows :—" I felt sick, and retched once or twice; I then felt my strength fail me, and experienced a weight across my forehead and giddiness and noise in the ears. I lay down with my head over the side of the bed, and shortly became insensible." The body of the woman was found in the supine position, the features composed, the face pale, the conjunctivae brilliant, the pupils widely dilated. All the depending parts were of a dull-pink colour. On opening the chest, the lungs were found to be pale and crepitant in front, but gorged with fluid below and behind. The right cavities of the heart were full of fluid blood, the left empty. The air-passages contained frothy mucus stained with blood, and portions of vomited food were found even in the smallest bronchial ramifications. The respiratory mucous membrane was of a florid-pink colour. The absence of vascularity of the brain or its mem- branes was remarkable, but this was probably referable to the fact that in opening the thoracic cavity much blood had escaped. The blood was everywhere fluid. The author remarks that, from the statements of the neighbours and of the husband, it appeared that a period of ten minutes must have elapsed between the first alarm and the death of the woman, during which she was for the most part conscious and even capable of conversing. He further notices that in neither case was there vomiting.