350 REPORT ON MIDWIFEEY. ETC. by turning, sixteen naturally, after artificial rupture of membranes; in one placenta expelled first; three delivered by forceps, one by craniotomy. There were Bix preternatural presentations, three hreech, two feet, one transverse. Thirty-six women recovered, ten died. Eighteen children born alive and twenty-eight dead; of the latter, four putrid, three cra- niotomy. Myrtle, Dr.—Hemorrhage at the commencement of Labour from Hyper- trophy and Eversion of the Os Uteri. Ed. Med. Journ., July, 1863. At the end of the eighth month there occurred haemorrhage to con- siderable extent, of arterial complexion ; there was debility, unwonted depression of spirits. Examination was made, and difficulty felt in deciding whether a spongy, vitreous mass, two inches long and projecting from the os, was a portion of placenta or malignant disease of the anterior lip of the os uteri. It was anteriorly girt by the firm os uteri. Under the influence of ergot and chloroform, given in combination in- ternally, membranes having been ruptured artificially, the labour-pains set in, and "with increase in the pains the tumour above described dis- appeared, the bleeding became less, and the case ended happily, there being no trace of a tumour left afterwards. Hamilton, Dr.—Postpartum Hemorrhage. Ed. Med. Journ., Oct., 1862, p. 379. The practice of the author in the treatment of post-partum haemor- rhage is to clear out the clots from the interior of the uterus, to intro- duce one hand into the vagina, and to place the other hand externally over the fundus uteri. Pressure is then made on the back wall of the uterus from below and in the opposite direction from above, and this compression maintained for the necessary time. Hamilton, Dr.—New Transfusion Apparatus. Ed. Med. Journ., Oct., 1862, p. 380. , Believing it to be very desirable that a more simple means shoufd be devised for the employment of transfusion in severe cases of post- partum haemorrhage, the author has contrived an apparatus of the following nature:—It consists of a funnel, four inches broad at the mouth, for receiving the blood, with a stop-cock attached to it; of a small tube for introduction into the vein of the patient, also having a stop- cock attached to it; and of an india-rubber tube, two feet long, for connecting the two. In operating with this instrument the patient is to be placed on a lower level than the person from whom the blood is taken [ the force of gravitation is thus the injecting force, and the passage of air into the veins is prevented. The apparatus is first failed with warm water, and just before taking the blood from the arm this water is allowed to escape, with the exception of just enough to fill the tube and the bottom of the funnel. The blood is then caught in the funnel and passes into the veins of the patient by the force of gravitation the small quantity of water in the tube being driven before it. Ibe autbor considers the introduction of this small Quantity of water of no disad- vantage. He has made experiments with the apparatus on dogs, with