FEVER ACCOMPANYING SURGICAL AFFECTIONS. 185 I. Traumatic and Secondary Fever in the Healthy. By the healthy the author signifies persons not affected with fever. He has observed i6<; surgical cases,* from which he has selected 77, in which, after injuries either from accident or operation, the traumatic fever could be followed to perfect recovery ; in a number of these cases secondary attacks also occurred. At first he eliminated the cases of suppurating wounds unattended by fever, such as cases of caries, necrosis, open cancer, &c, because it is generally supposed that such patients are less affected by operations ; he has, however, been unable to find any decided differ- ence in the traumatic fever attending such cases from that occurring in the robust. It is true that, under certain circumstances, secondary attacks occur more rarely, especially where the sphere of the operation is confined to parts affected with chronic inflammation, as in necrosis; where, how- ever, as in resection of a joint, or other operation for caries, healthy tissues are divided, there is no very important difference in the febrile reaction, and foi^iis reason he includes such cases in the present remarks. After a great, number of injuries there is no fever at all. In the seventy-seven cases there were twenty such ; among the injuries there were simple fractures of the forearm, leg, and thigh, a resection of the alveolar process of the upper jaw, a rhinoplastic operation, an operation for phymosis, an excision of a cancer of the lip, a luxation of the elbow, extirpations of the eye. Hence it results that injuries varying much in extent, wounds which heal by the first intention and others that heal by suppuration, occurring in the old and young, the strong and weak, the male and female, may be unattended by fever, whilst in other exactly similar cases either slight or severe attacks may occur. Neither the part affected nor the extent of the wound are by themselves decisive as to the occurrence of fever. At the same time it must be remarked that among these cases none were very extensive nor yet of a nature to endanger life. As soon as it had been shown that fever was often absent in slight cases, the author discontinued his observations on such patients. Accordingly the proportion of twenty cases without fever to fifty-seven with fever is entirely without any statistical value. The author is inclined to think that, counting all cases of wounds together, the number of those with, is far less than that of those, who are without it. In five cases traumatic fever icas entirely absent, yet there ensued more or less violent secondary fevers or other accidental diseases. Thus, the absence of traumatic fever by no means guarantees the absence of future complications ; just as little, however, does it justify an unfavorable prognosis. No fever occurred in a man of seventy from whom a cancer of the lip had been excised by the V incision, and the temperature sank repeatedly below the minimum of the normal heat, even as low as 35°. There had been no particular loss of blood during the operation. There now remain fifty-two cases, in which the traumatic fever took its regular course, and from these we shall next proceed to determine its duration. In most cases it lasts two to seven days ; ten cases continued * In a )iotc he adds that at a later period these observations had incrcaspd to 225.