GENERAL SYSTEM. 59 Syphilis and Vaccination. Med. T. and Gaz., March 15th. (1) There are several cases on record in which infecting chancre has succeeded the performance of vaccination, where the lymph has been taken from a normal pock upon the arm of a person the subject of constitutional syphilis. Such an occurrence is, however, extremely rare, and quite excep- tional. (2) In such cases the vaccine disease and the syphilis have run the distinct course which would be anticipated from the great difference in the period of incubation of the two diseases, the local manifestation of the latter awaiting the completion of the course of the vaccine. (3) In all such cases the disease apparently imparted has been the primary disease, which has appeared at the spots punctured. In cases where secondary manifestations alone succeeded the vaccinia, the patient was syphilitic prior to the operation, the vaccine having acted merely in arousing the disease from latency. (4) It is probable, though not yet satisfactorily proved, that in some cases the transmission of the disease has been effected, as alleged, through the medium of the vaccine lymph as taken from a normal Jennerian vesicle, the virus of both diseases, vaccine and syphilis, being obtained at the same time from the same vesicle. In other instances it is possible that the virus of syphilis may have come accidentally into relation with the punctured spots. (5) Where numerous persons have been vaccinated from the same subject, those who were last vaccinated were mostly those who suffered from syphilis in the sequel. (6) It is not proved that in those instances blood mixed with the lymph was the immediate vehicle of the virus. The following cautions are suggested by the above statements :—To use every care in ascertaining that the child yielding the lymph, the parents, and the nurse are quite healthy. To see that the lancets are absolutely clean. To use only clear and limpid lymph, which flows spontaneously from the first and most superficial punctures of a vesicle. To vaccinate no child whose attendants have any syphilitic affection. Percy, S. E.—Amer. Med. T., Feb. 8th. He recommends the iodide or chloride of gold as having a very happy and salutary effect in cases of tertiary syphilis, where mercurials cannot be employed. The doses are from one-tenth to one-sixth of a grain of the iodide, and from one-sixteenth to one-eighth of a grain of the chloride ter die. They should produce increased fulness and frequency of the pulse, augmentation of urine, saliva, and perspiration, a moist tongue, but no disorder of the bowels. Too large a dose, or too long continuance, pro- duces marked gastric irritation. Holler, A.—Casts of Congenital Syphilis with coexisting Deformity of the upper Incisor Teeth. Bayer, arztl. Intell. Bl. 7, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 313. . The cases observed at v. Graefe's and Langenbeck's cliniques go to con- firm Hutchinson's views; v. Graefe, however, leaves the corneal affection chiefly-to the vis rnedicatrix Natural.