106 REPORT ON 1'KAGTICAI, MEMCINE. plethorio, thirty to forty-live years old, and appear to be in robust health, but who have marked hypochondriacal symptomfl, with feeble act ion of tlie heart and a shabby pulse. In some young, and to all appearance healthy, persons, Lyons has observed murmurs referrible to the ascending portion of the aorta and barely .post-systolic. There may be no subjective symptom of disease whatever. The question is, whether such murmurs depend on the presence of osseous plates (atheromatous) in the aorta, or whether there is no organic change. Lyons inclines to the latter view, partly because he has known the murmur to disappear in similar instances, the action and sound being perfectly normal. He next draws attention to obstructive disease of the aortic orifice, producing in different cases the same acoustic phenomena, but with an exceedingly different general con- dition. In one case there is a loud systolic murmur propagated up the aorta and even into the vessels, with very good general health and a fair pulse. In the other there is the same or nearly the same murmur, but with a small weak pulse, and all the signs of obstructed circulation, pulmonary congestion, and dropsy. In both cases there is no regurgitant murmur. Lyons states, from examination of morbid specimens, that in the first of these instances there is obstruction without, and in the second with stenosis of the aortic orifice, and that this accoimts for the very different effects. He records a case which he entitles one of pure uncomplicated myocarditis. The patient was between thirty and forty, and began to suffer at first with debility and unpleasant sensation in the chest, after a time could not leave his room, and scarcely could stir without increasing the heart's action. After about five to seven years he completely recovered, and the most careful examination was unable to detect anything in the least degree morbid about the heart or any other part. During the periods of excitement of the heart's action the debility was extreme, the patient's sufferings most intense, and the cardiac action almost more violent and tumultuous than Lyons had ever before witnessed. The face was flushed vividly; the pulse was rapid—izo, regular, and not remarkable for force or volume. The impulse was very violent, and a loud, diffuse, systolic bellows-murmur was audible with great and equal intensity over the whole precordial region. Iron and tonics failed to give any relief. Vesication was maintained for more than ten months, and seems to have been of some benefit. Flint, A., M.D.—On Cardiac Murmurs. Amer. J. of Med. Sc., July, i86z. Flint considers (i) the limitations of their significance, and lays stress on the importance of not considering a murmur, although organic, as neces- sarily a serious symptom, and requiring any alteration of active habits. He gives instances where persons had lived many years in comfortable health after the discovery of a murmur, and shows what mischief may be done by needlessly alarming the patient, and filling him with anxiety. Valvular lesions be- come, he says, serious in proportion as hypertrophy merges into dilatation, or as weakness of the organ may be induced by structural degeneration, or other causes. The treatment should be invigorating, (z) Aortic direct murmur. Flint admits now that an inorganic murmur may be rough, and that rough-