ANEURISM. 241 Only thrice, in fourteen cases, did cerebral symptoms appear after the second ligature, and in all three cases they had also accompanied the first operation. Mr. R. Davis communicates a case of ligature of the carotid between the two portions of the sternomastoid ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' vii, 685). Professor Middeldorpf recommends in wounds of the palmar arch or in cirsoid aneurism of the head, ligature en masse without incision of the skin. Silver or iron wire should be used ; the skin should be punctured from a third to an inch and a half from the artery, and the knot tied over a little roll of adhesive plaster; the wires should not be left more than six or eight days ('Abhandl. d. Schles. Ges.,' 1861,3, and Gra veil's 'Notizeu,' xiv, 443). M. Kelaton employed cauterization with chloride of zinc successfully in a case of haemorrhage from the palm of the hand, the result of sloughing ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 193). Case of ligature of the common iliac artery for haemorrhage, by Mr. De Lisle (' Army Med. Rep.' for i860, p. 453): and a successful case by Mr. Bickersteth ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' viii, 8). ANEURISM. Dr. Campbell records a case of gluteal aneurism ('Lane.,' 1862, ii, 41): the tumour was of the size of a hen's egg, and the trunk of the vessel was tied where it emerges from the sciatic notch, without opening the sac: not half au ounce of blood was lost, and the ultimate result was satisfactory. Mr. Syme reports the following case of iliac aneurism ('Med.-Chir.Trans.,' xlv, 381): a seaman, aet. 31, received a violent blow on the le;t groin in November; an aneurism formed, and on April the 18th, he was admitted into the Royal Infirmary. "Upon examination, I found the tumour even larger than had been expected. It extended in length from below Poupart's ligament considerably above the umbilicus, and stretched from nearly two inches beyond the middle line of the abdomen, towards the right side, completely across the left iliac region, so as to overlap the crest of the ilium. Throughout the whole of this enormous swelling there was a strong pulsation and distinct aneurismal bruit; there was also great pain from pressure on the nerves, and considerable oedema of the thigh, from obstruction of the venous circulation. From the history of this case it seemed probable that the artery had been ruptured in the groin, and that, if an opening were made into the sac, the pressure of the finger would prevent haemorrhage, until the clots were turned out and ligatures applied. On the 20th of April, chloroform having been administered, I thrust a knife into the aneurism, about an inch above Poupart's ligament, and at the same distance from where the anterior spinous process of the ilium was supposed to be. Having inserted my forefinger, and found nothing but a confused mass of clots resting upon the bare bone, I made room for the middle finger also, and, still obtaining no satisfactory information, en- larged the wound sufficiently for thrusting in the whole hand, but with such force that the integuments embraced it tightly at the wrist, so as to prevent any escape of blood. I then ascertained that the artery was not in its proper place, and felt that it would be necessary to lay open the sac in order to discover the seat of rupture. But as this could not be done 16