425 LEECHES. cocticm of spruce it was renewed in a higher degree than before, especially as regards the phosphates, the excretion of which was now nearly five times as rapid as before the bath. Experiments in which saline solutions were substituted for the decoction yielded perfectly analogous results. But notwithstanding these remarkable tacts, showing the unquestionable action of the bath on the composition of the renal excretion, no trace of the salts employed could be detected in the urine. In further experiments a limb was immersed in solution of chloride of sodium for periods varying from five to thirty minutes, then thoroughly aud repeatedly washed in distilled water, and again plunged for fifteen to thirty minutes in a glass containing the same liquid. Having first ascertained that no chloride of sodium was contained in the last washings, the author determined its presence in the distilled water, in which the limb was subsequently immersed, by the abundant precipitate produced on the addition of nitrate of silver. Similar experiments were made with various salts, which showed that chloride of sodium is taken up by the skin more readily than any other. From all the preceding facts the author concludes that the skin has the property of not only absorbing the saline constituents of the bath, but of expelling them subsequently, and that the absorption takes place most actively within from five to thirty minutes after immersion, and is coetaneous with the alteration in the constituents of the urine. As the salts held in solution by the water of the bath never enter the circulation, the author holds that they must exercise their physiological influence exclusively through the peripheral nerves of the skin. Leiimanx.—On Diffusion through the Skin in the Bath. Virchow, vol. xxii, p. 133. With a view to the undecided question whether or not water is ab- sorbed in the bath, the author experimented on his three boys, between four and eight years old. Each was placed in the water for fifteen minutes, his weight and that of the bath and its contents having been previously determined. On leaving the water he was dried with an accurately weighed towel, the greatest care being taken that not a drop should be lost. The bath, towel, and subject of observation were then again weighed. The loss by evaporation had been estimated from previous experiment. The results were as follows:—The bath had lost weight by twenty-eight grammes, but this fact was admitted to be of little value on account of the uncertainty with which the loss by evaporation could be determined and the liability to error in the weighings; the author himself admits that this error might amount to fifty grammes cither way. The other results afforded no indication that the weight of the body was increased during the bath. The comparison of the quantities of urine passed during the hour preceding and that following the bath showed that the latter was somewhat greater than the former.*3 LEECHES. Ilrporls on the means employed in the Restoration of Leeches in the Prussian Military Hospitals during the year i860. Preuss Mil Ztg., No. 19, 1861. Schmidt, vol. '113, p. 31.