95 PSYCHTATRIK. 1 icad, taken alter death, with another, taken about seventeen years before, there was found to be a very remarkable difference between them, not in form only, but also in size, the head having become less during these seventeen years by an amount equal at least to twelve cubic inches. The change in form is very marked, affecting of course the roof of the skull, and not the base. It is chiefly obvious in the shortening of the distance between the root of the nose and the occipital spine, and in the change of the corresponding arch, which is flattened in the frontal and occipital regions. Yellowlees distin- guishes (i) Homicidal monomania, or a motiveless impulse to shed blood, without any other indication of insamty : (2) Homicidal impulses occurring in Melancholia, the latter jDreexisting as a form of insanity, and suggesting in some measure the homicidal idea by the misery it causes : (3) Homicidal mania, where delusion of some kind prompts the murderous desire. He concludes with showing that there are various degrees of criininal responsi- bility in the insane. Carmichael M'Intosh, W.—Mollities Ossium in Insanity. Edin. Med. J., Aug. 1862. Two cases are related, both of which occurred in females, past the middle period of life, each of whom had been the subject at one time of suicidal melancholia, the disease, in fact, retaining certain of its characteristics to the last. The eldest had partly lapsed into the dementia so often consecu- tive to the graver mental maladies; the other was active-minded and despairing throughout. Both were unmarried, and had led sedentary lives. One became insane at the comparatively early age of twenty-two; the other at fifty-six. Each had spent about ten years in the institution since last admission, and both were hopeless cases of mental disease. The younger for a long time before death was almost purely a vegetarian. Both patients complained of great pain in the bones affected, had fatty disease of the kidneys, and of the liver. In the one abimdant crystals of the triple phosphate were found in the urine; in the other no urine could be collected before or after death, but the crystals were numerous in the fluids of the encephalon. In the younger the frame was emaciated in the ex- treme, and the lungs were tubercular; in the other there was abundance of adipose matter and no tubercles. The microscopic aspect of the (softened) bone contents showed a much greater amount of granular matter than in the healthy bone, irregularity in the shape of nucleated cells, which sometimes were elongated, numerous blood corpuscles, and an enormous preponderance of fatty masses and globules. The lacunre were enlarged and the canaliculi had disappeared to a corresponding extent. The margins of the apertures on the surface of the ribs near the softened portions, which a re entrance to processes of periosteum, had a ragged granular aspect, and molecular disintegration seemed at work there with especial vigour In the ribs there were certain callus formations, the result of frequent fractures • these appeared for the most part of healthy structure, but in some places were encroached on internally by softened pulp. [jEmmino.—On Insane Institutions and Insane Colonies. Allg ZtBchr f Psychiatrie, xvi, 1859, xv"b 1861.