REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. Still ho maintains that it is nevertheless present in all cases, and that it forms an essential constituent of the cell. Doubts as to the correct- ness of this opinion have been raised in various quarters. lleccntly, Schultze has, after careful researches, come to the conclusion that the most important and vital cells have no membrane ; that, where the membrane is actually detected, it is almost always a product of retro- grade metamorphosis; and that the only essential constituents of a cell arc a nucleus surrounded by a little lump of protoplasma. Reichcrt, on the other hand, thinks that the pleated ring, which is seen to surround the first two segments of the cleaving yelk in the frog's egg, is sufficient proof that these bodies are each enclosed in a membrane. Hensen takes it upon himself to demonstrate the cell-membrane where its occurrence is most doubtful, namely, in the blood-corpuscles. He says that the constituents of a blood-corpuscle are a coloured intracellular fluid, surrounded by a granular protoplasma, and a membrane enclosing the whole, and states that in corpuscles, which within the living body have been withdrawn from the circulation, the contents are often found contracted in the interior of the cell, and widely separated from its walls ; and adds that this appearance may be also artificially produced by the addition of a solution of sugar to the blood. Bruecke takes quite an original view of the nature of the elementary units which compose the animal organism. He entirely drops the notion of their morphological identity. To him no point of the old doctrine is essential. He thinks that a membrane, fluid contents, nucleus, and nucleolus, may or may not exist in the elementary organisms. He completely discards the leading idea of Schwann, and introduces a diametrically opposed view. He does not speak of cells, but of elemen- tary organisms; and calls them elementary only because we have not yet any accurate knowledge of their organization, because we are not yet able to demonstrate their component parts. These _ elementary organisms may, perhaps, differ from each other almost as widely as one animal from another, and there is every reason to believe that their intimate structure is of a most complicated kind. How, for instance, can the motion which is exhibited by the ciliated epithelium be other- wise accounted for?—and what else can be indicated by the circle of prismatic rods which has been shown to exist in the cylindrical epithelium of the villi of the small intestines? Take, as a further instance, a saliva-corpuscle, in which so-called molecular motion is seen ; compress it slighlv, so as to flatten it, and the molecular motion in it will cease for ever. Does this not prove that an organic mechanism, which produces the motion in the uninjured corpuscle, has been destroyed by the pressure ? We must infer, from analogy, that just as in the animal organism the different actions proceed from different organs, so also in the minute beings which are the elements of the larger ones does each vital action depend upon special organs. In the unicellular plants, which exist only as integral parts of a whole, we have another example of how far organization extends. The compound molecules of organic sub-