279 EYE. Professor Arlt, lectures on the diseases of the lachrymal organs (' Spit. Zeit.,' 1862, pp. 265, 298, &c.) : Zeisslon syphilitic diseases of the lachry- mal organs (GrSvell's 'Notiz.,' 1862, p. 230): Mr. Chalk on compression of the sac (' Lancet,' 1862, ii, 22). Muscles. Dr. Wells and Dr. Schulz on electricity in paralytic affec- tions ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1861, ii, 660: 'Wien. Med. Woollens.,' 1862, 24.3). Accommodation. F. C. Donders, 'Astigmatism and Cylindrical Glasses/ pp. 12 and 137 (Berlin, H. Peters). Prof. v. Jaeger, 'On the Accommodation of the Human Eye,' 2nd edit., pp. 8 and 283, 5 plates (Wien, Seidel). J. S. Wells 'On Long, Short, and Weak Sight, and their Treatment hy the Scientific Use of Spectacles,' pp. 9 and 112 (Lond., Churchill). Recent researches on the optical relations of the eye ('Brit, and For. M.-C. Rev.,' xxix, 1). E. Follin on the accommodation of the eye ('Arch. Gen.,' 1862, »> 11)- ' . , , . . Mr. Solomon publishes a continuation of his experimental inquiry into the value of incision of the ciliary muscle (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 56). For the relief of short-sightedness alone, he has operated upon forty-one eyes by intra-ocular myotomy, and one eye only has been damaged. The case was that of a little girl, an out-patient, who removed all the plasters and freely exercised her eyes on the second or third day after the operation ; but notwithstanding this disregard of after-treatment, the fellow eye made a good recovery. Mr. Solomon's experience warrants him, therefore, in stating that the operation is quite safe, when proper precautions are taken before and after its performance. According to the author, intra-ocular myotomy is a safe and expeditious method of relieving short-sightedness. 2. The relief is not temporary. 3. In many cases it obviates the necessity of wearing spectacles. 4. It never injures the range of accommodation. 5. It renders the myopic eye more healthy by improving the nutrition of the choroid, retina, and vitreous humour: myopic amblyopia is sometimes cured by it. 6. It has arrested a rapidly increasing myopia, and cured the choroido-retinal irritation with which it was connected. (See also 'Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 162.) Conjunctiva and Cornea. Dr. C. Buttner has made a series of experiments on the changes of nutrition, which occur in the eye after section of the fifth pair (trige- minus). This subject has been, for some time, of interest in regard to the so-called neuro-paralytic inflammations ; on the one hand, Schiff came to the conclusion, that the paralysis of the vaso-motory nerves, which was induced by section of the fifth, caused dilatation of the blood-vessels, and as a further consequence inflammation : on the other hand, Snellen endea- voured to show, that the inflammation was caused by external irritants to which the eye was especially exposed owing to its loss of sensibility, and that section of the nerve had no important influence over the inflammatory process. To this Schiff replied, that in some cases of partial section of