3 CELLS, ELEMENTARY ORGANISMS, AND CORPUSCLES. stances which make up the elementary organisms are not merely heaped together in a uniform mass, hut are wonderfully arranged, so as to hudd up the minute but highly complicated frame of these living beings. These ideas of Bruecke tend to break through the very foundations of the cell-theory, and to open a view, beyond, into an amazing and infinite variety of successive organizations. As a contrast to the organic notions of Bruecke may he given a state - ment of Boettcher. He says that when currents of oxygen and of carbonic acid are conducted through a solution of hasmato-crystalline, a sediment is formed, which, to the naked eye, appears red and granular. Placed under the microscope this sediment is found to consist of cor- puscles, which bear a striking resemblance to the red corpuscles of the blood. Several skilled observers who examined them, without having been informed of their nature, took them at once for blood-corpuscles. These artificial corpuscles vary somewhat in size, but are, on the average, as large as those of the blood. Boettcher thinks that they are, in fact, nothing but artificial blood-corpuscles, and that the true blood-corpuscles of the higher animals are formed, by the process of respiration, in the fluid in which they are floating. He promises to bring forward proof of this in a future paper. According to Bobin, the embryonic cells of certain insects (Titularies culciformes) are not formed by cleaving of the yelk, but by a process which may be compared to that of budding. On the surface of the hya- line yelk minute, semi-globular protuberances make their appearance, which gradually increase to -014 — -016 mm. They become flattened by mutual pressure, get constricted at their base, and at last separate entirely from the yelk. A second and a third layer of globules are successively formed by the same process. No nucleus is at first visible. It is formed afterwards. Scheodeb, H.—On the Filtration of the Air, in reference to Putrefaction, Fermentation, and Crystallisation. Acnal. der Chem. u. Pharm., v. 117, p. 273. Ihe results of some previous investigations of Schroder on the same subject were communicated in the 'Year Book' for i860, p. 126. We give here his final conclusions, so far as they relate to physiology: 1. All vegetable or animal forms derive their origin from other living vegetable or animal beings. Omne vivum ex vivo. 2. When a series of specific products of fermentation and putrefaction is developed at a certain spot, germs which originate the process have been conveyed to that spot through the medium of the air. Such is cer- tainly always the case with regard to germs of mould, and to the ferments ol wine, milk, and urine. 3 . Vegetable and animal matter, in which all germs have been destroyed by boiling, and which, while still in a hot state, has been shut off from the direct influence of the external air by means of cotton-wool, remains perfectly free from mould, fermentation, or putrefaction. The germs, 22? otf?rviiS0^wo,Jld be BUPPUed b^ the air> ai'e nested hi the passage of the latter through the cotton-wool