SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 173 strengthen and develop in the offspring, individual peculiarities of the parents, both mental and physical, whether morbid or otherwise; and therefore in practice they often do induce degeneration. (3) That there are some cases in which it woidd be actually safer (as far as the chance of healthy offspring is concerned) for a man to marry a blood-relation, than a woman not so related with whose family history he was unacquainted. (4) That l>v means of a proper regard to known facts relating to hereditary transmission, a physician may predict with great accuracy the probable result, as regards the health of the offspring of a marriage of blood-relations in any particular case, if only he be sufficiently acquainted with the hygienic history of the family. Duvay —On the bad Effects of Marriages amongst near Relations. Gaz. Hebdom., vol. vii, No. 37. Edin. J., Jan. 1862. Duvay affirms that pure consanguinity isolated from all circumstances of hereditary disease contains, ipso facto, a principle of organic vitiation. He gives the history of a family of six children (four daughters and two sons), of whom three married cousins-german, and three married strangers. The first three had twenty-four children, of whom twenty died young; the other group had nineteen children, of whom three died young. One of the females had eleven children, all of whom died of hydrocephalus at a very early age, one only attaining the age of fourteen years. In another instance two healthy persons had eight children, of whom seven died before the age of four years, from convulsions or hydrocephalus. Other instances are given in which anomalies of organization resulted from marriages of relations. Ozanam.—On the Preparation of Oxygenated Water, and its Therapeutical use. Compte rendu de l'Academie des Sc., Nov. 1861. Brit, and For. Mcd.-Ch. Eev., July 1862. The water is distilled, and then charged with oxygen under the influence of high pressure. It improves the condition of the blood in cases where that fluid is impaired or deficient, as in dyspnoea, asthma, slow asphyxia, cyanosis, diseases of the heart, heemorrhoids, and ha?morrhoidal visceral congestion. It possesses also an oxidizing or metamorphic action in cases where the organic products are arrested in their development, as happens in glycosuria, gout, uric, and oxalic gravel, and perhaps in scrofula. It exerts an exciting and regulating action on the brain and thyroid gland, and hence its use in goitre and cretinism. It is of no use in hemicrania, and injurious in inflammatory disease. Tit. Guaco.—Gaz. Med. de Lyon. Ann. Thcrapeut., 1862, p. 49. Is found very useful as a local application in purulent ophthalmia, vaginitis, old ulcers, gangrenous sores, and even hospital gangrene. Osborne, Jon.—Ob the Employment of a Heated Thermometer for the Measurement of the Cooling Power of the Air on the Human Body Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., May, 1862. (The instrument is graduated only from 8o° to 900 F. At each obser-