SUBJECTS OF OF.NERAL INTEREST. KiO Pfaff.—On the the Influence of Ozone.—Henke's Ztsclir. f. Staats., No. 2, 1862. Med. T. and Gaz., Sep. 27th. Pi'aff finds ozone present in the atmosphere in large quantities during stormy weather succeeding continued fine. It was generally at its lowest point during a continuance of any kind of unchanged weather, whether wet or dry. The direction of the wind does not influence the presence of ozone. A large proportion of ozone in the atmosphere acts mischievously on diseases of the respiratory organs, favours the development of inflammatory affections, and especially tonsillitis. Ozone exerts little or no effect upon epidemic diseases if these are not complicated with catarrhal affections. Martin.—J. de Med. and de Chir. Pratiq., vol. xxxiii, p. 81. Eecommends hits of agaric dipped in solution of perchloride of iron and dried, as a convenient means of arresting haemorrhage from leechbites when troublesome. Geuard.—J. de Med. & de Chir. Pratiq., vol. xxxiii, p. 465. Affirms that poisonous fungi may be eaten with impunity if they are steeped previously for two hours in water well acididated with vinegar (about 5_j to jij, ad Oij), or having salt mixed with it, and then well washed and boiled for twenty or thirty minutes, and then washed again. Rosenthal.—On the Absorption of Preparations of Iodine. Wien. Med. Halle, iii, 20, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 34. Rosenthal finds that when full doses of pot. iod. are taken, iodine can lie demonstrated in the urine during forty hours if but little fluid is drank ; whereas when fluid is drank copiously iodine cannot be detected after twenty-four hours. He finds also that iodine can be detected in the saliva ami urine very positively, after inunction with pure pot. iod. ointment, and also after baths containing the same ingredient. Paasoh.—Preuss. Ver.-Ztg. N. F. v. 19, 1862. On the Inhalation of • Gaseous Substances. Martins.—Memor. vii. 2, Feb. 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 35. Paasch recommends inhaling the fumes of muriate of ammonia in pul- monary catarrh. They are to be generated by placing a watch-glass con- taining H. CI. in a saucer holding a little caustic ammonia; the vapour of the latter, he thinks, if unneutralized by the H. CI. will combine with the C 02 of the air-cells. Martins ascribes the beneficial action of nitre-paper in asthma, to the carbonate of potash and caustic potash which are con- tained in the fumes. Eudmann. Fourth Report on Electro-therapy. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 243. Our Jimits only allow us to make a few extracts. Remak has recorded some cases of the central .transference of peripheral anaesthesia, and of reflex spasm. These he believes to depend on an irritation communicated to the centre from some part of the surface. They were removed by constant currents. Becquerel states that he prefers strong rapidly inter-