REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 4G0 ounces of oil are obtained from thirteen pounds of tbe powdered chest- nuts. The remedy is used in rheumatism, and has been found to be of great value as a rubefacient, to be rubbed into the affected parts. Its constitution is said to be similar to that of croton oil. Tcrebinthaccce. Clarus.—On the Pharmacology of Bhus toxicodendron. Schmidt, vol. 115, p. 166. By numerous experiments on the healthy human subject, as well as on animals, the author has investigated the reputed poisonous properties of this well-known plant. His conclusions are as follows:—The sup- posed property of the sumach to exhale in shady places and during the night, a gas which is capable of producing inflammation and vesication of the skin, cannot be demonstrated. No such property is possessed by the fresh milky juice, or by the fresh leaves, either of which may be applied to the skin without producing the slightest irritation. No fixed acrid or narcotic principle resides in the plant, although traces of an alkaloid may be detected. The officinal extract exerts no physiolo- gical action whatever, either on man or animals. "When given inter- nally to rabbits, the fresh juice of the leaves was found to be entirely inert. Other experiments, in which a variety of preparations of the drug were investigated, led to the same results. The author is of opinion that the plant ought to be excluded from the Pharmacopajias ; even if it be admitted that the growing plant is possessed of toxical proper- ties, it may be regarded as certain that these are entirely wanting after it is gathered. , Galiacece. Timbal-Lagrave.—On the Pharmaceutical Properties of Galium verum, Molluyo, etpalustre. Bull, de Ther., vol. lxiii, p. 212. The author has examined the various species of galium at different periods of growth, with reference to the quantity of alcoholic extract obtained by maceration of the fresh plant and evaporation. He con- cludes that Galium palustre is preferable to every other species, and that it is most active when in bud. Ogle.— On a proposed Remedy (a species of Galium) for Epilepsy. Lancet, May 17th. This paper contains a summary of the medical history of the various species of galium, which have enjoyed a reputation from the earliest periods as antispasmodic remedies, as well as a description of the treat- ment of epileptics at Tain (l'Ardeche) by the expressed juice of Galium Molluao, a variety of which grows in abundance near that town, on the Hermitage Mountain, so renowned for the quality of its ^ine. To this locality no less than 800 or 900 patients resort annually from all parts ot the world, of whom about one in four are said to be materially benefited. Encouraged by the result of his inquiries on the spot, the author has successfully tried the remedy in private and hospital practice. Although occasionally it produces vomiting and purging, its action is mainly manifested in the diminution of the frequency and intensity ot tiic paroxysms. The preparation used was an extract of the fresh juice.