243 ANEURISM. an auatomical classification of aneurisms into three classes; i, by dilata- tion; i, extravascular, where all the coats are ruptured; 3, arterio-venous ; he further divides each class into genera and species. Mistakes have occurred in diagnosis from the absence of pulsation ; Rigaud states that in a very large and long-standing aneurism, the pulsations become at first intermittent, that is, can sometimes be felt, sometimes cannot; that they then diminish to a simple oscillation, which it is often difficult to deter- mine; and that finally every species of internal motion ceases,—the tumour is scarcely diminished by direct compression, and still less by pressure on the artery; in such cases a certain, unequal resistance, the result of commencing disorganization, may cause the suspicion of cancer beginning to soften ; an exploratory puncture may be necessary; and even then, a soft yellowish matter, such as is found in colloid osteosarcoma, occasionally escapes; this matter is, however, really fibrine deprived of its colouring substance, and is soon replaced by blood, which escapes in such quantities, as to leave no doubt about the diagnosis. The author relates an interesting case, which occurred as far back as 1831 :—T. Roger, set. 31, had been attacked ten months previously with violent pains about the right shoulder, for which he consulted a bone-setter, who treated him with great roughness. Some months later, he was seen by the author, who inclined to the opinion of aneurism, though unable to come to a full decision; he was again lost sight of, until an exploratory puncture had been made, from which a large amount of blood had escaped; syncope had ensued, and the haemorrhage had been stopped by direct pressure. Rigaud was now informed, that the tumour had, before the puncture, in- creased to the size of a child's head, pushing forwards the pectoral muscles, extending inwards to the costal cartilages, upwards to the clavicle, and downwards to the anterior edge of the axilla. Some doubt, as to the nature of the disease, was again excited by the statement, that the tumour was now only half the size it had been previously to the puncture; accordingly, to clear it up, Rigaud enlarged the puncture and introduced his finger; he found a vast cavity, with smooth walls, filled with coagula, and on the withdrawal of the finger there was a violent gush of blood, which was stopped by compression of the subclavian. The operation for ligature of the subclavian was long and difficult; among other things, a vein was divided, into which air appeared thrice to be sucked ; finally, however, everything was terminated in a satisfactory manner. This opera- tion took place on the aist November, 1831 ; the ligature came away on the 4th December, and the patient continued in excellent condition till the 9th; then, however, an enormous collection of pus formed in the aneurism, and was discharged by an aperture made at the lowest point; nevertheless the patient became weaker, diarrhoea set in, and death took place on the 5th January:—six weeks after the operation, a month and two days after the discharge of the ligatures. On this case, the author remarks, that it would probably be well, in old and large aneurisms, to open freely the tumour, and evacuate all its contents, immediately after ligature of the artery. Another case recorded (ib., p. 93) is that of a large traumatic aneurism of the thigh, of six months' duration, the femoral was tied just above the tumour, and recovery took place without a bad symptom. Mr. Hart communicated to the Royal Med. and Chir.