REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 114 throws a large amount of nitrogenised effete matter into the circulation, which the kidneys elaborate into dense urine ; and he has noticed the fact that as long as the urine is dense there is no strangury, but when it grows pale the quantity becomes less, and if the medicine is continued strangury will follow. On Veratrum viride. Lancet, Jan. 4th. The special virtue of this remedy in controlling the action of the heart without depressing the vital powers, makes it very valuable in all inflam- matory diseases. Especially in pneumonia its efficacy seems to be well proved: it relieves the dyspnoea, promotes expectoration, and effects a rapid recovery. In acute rheumatism, and acute mania, it is said also to be highly serviceable, and equally in traumatic and puerperal fever. In full doses it produces vomiting and prostration, which are relieved by opiates and stimulants. From five to eight minims may be given to an adult every two hours, and when the specific effect is produced the dose may be chminished. Chambers, T. K.—On' Anaemia and Blood-letting. Med. T. & Gaz. Jan. 1 ith. Chambers recommends mist, ferri. co. in preference to the more elegant preparations, and besides warm baths containing H. CI., with gradually- increasing supplies of nitrogenous food, and pil. aloes c. myrrha as an aperient. He points to the rapid development of red globules which takes place under this treatment, as a proof that venesection, judiciously employed, inflicts no serious loss on a patient's system. M'Namara, E.—Observations on Epistaxis. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb. 1862. M'Namara considers that all cases of this affection belong to one of two great classes, the sthenic or the asthenic. If it belong to the former, it is not to be arrested, at least hastily, but rather to be encouraged awhile, as rendering other evacuations unnecessary. He illustrates by cases the influence of various causes in giving rise to the affection, as the invasion of erysipelas, anger, grief, fatty heart, enlarged spleen, renal disease, scurvy, disturbed cerebral circulation. The authority of Dr. Ledwich is cited in favour of the view that the channels in the turbinated bones lodge venous sinuses, from which the profuse hajmorrhage proceeds which is so frequently met with. In sthenic epistaxis sulph. magn. with acid s. dil. and tr. digitalis is recommended. In asthenic, pulv. ergota? gr. v-vj every ten or fifteen minutes, or where there are indications of purpura, 3j-tfiss of ol. terebinth, in a tumbler of brandy or whisky punch. The erect position of the head, dry cupping, and vesication of the back of the neck, are all valuable means. It is only in extreme cases that plugging of the nares is advised; full details are given of the best methods. Wintrich.—On Sudden Paralysis of the Heart. Med. T. & Gaz., Feb. 15th. Wintrich has recently observed that in certain spasmodic fits, in which