REPORT ON SURGERY. 186 five days, eight six days, and nine seven days. When the traumatic fever lasts more than seven days, we may consider the prolongation to he caused hy there being no interval between it and the secondary fever, which is excited by fresh inflammations around the wound. Even in the cases continuing over five days, there is sometimes a marked decrease on the second, often on the third or fifth, day, so that even such appear to be composed of two attacks ; yet this phenomenon is not sufficiently common, for us to draw any conclusion from it as to the duration of the first con- stitutional reaction. The examination of the course of the fever will render this clearer. When the duration was from one to four days, the cases were principally those of injuries in patients with suppurating ulcers, and of operations after which the wounds healed by suppuration. When the fever lasted five to seven clays, the patient had generally been robust, and suffered serious injuries. Whether the wound of an amputa- tion healed by the first or second intention, made no difference in the dura- tion of the fever. When the fever lasted more than seven days, the patients were for the most part robust, but the wounds were attended by much suppuration. The age and constitution had no essential influence over the duration. The course.—The fever rarely commences with a rigor; it generally augments very rapidly; in fifty-two cases the highest temperature was attained twelve times on the first day and sixteen times on the second. In the cases where the temperature soon arrives at its highest point, the increase is generally regular (thirty cases) ; where the temperature does not arrive at its acme till a later period, there are slight morning re- missions. Occasionally there is a steady increase without morning re- missions up to the fourth day, so that it appears that the reaction in different individuals varies in its rapidity. In five cases the thermometer was applied immediately after the operation, and the temperature measured every half hour till evening; from ten o'clock in the morning the tem- perature sank slowly, yet never below the normal, till one at noon, at which time it began'to ascend. The author found that the temperature was often diminished, but never increased, by loss of blood ; the difference amounted to cri0 to 1-3°; only in four cases did the temperature sink below the normal. It cannot be denied that the greater the loss of blood the more is the temperature diminished, yet this effect is very transitory; very soon the temperature rises again, and where after an operation the temperature has been abnormally low, he has seen very violent fever ; he has been unable to recognise any decided effect of bloodletting on trau- matic fever, either as to its increase or diminution. The fastigium*—The highest temperature during a traumatic fever generally occurred in the evening (forty-five times), only exceptionally 111 the morning (seven times). The degrees of heat were most ofteil between 390 and 39"9° or more exactly— 15 times between 380 and 38-9° 32 >. 39° 39 9° S ». » 4° 4°-S Any considerable height of the temperature during the first day is, in * By the fastigium we mean the acme or greatest intcusity of the febrile attack.— T. W.