REPORT ON 1'UACTICAI, MEMCIXE. 170 vcscenco takes place rapidly, sometimes in a single night, mostly in twenty-four to tliirty-six hours, and herein differs remarkably from its remitting course in typhoid. In the non-typical forms of pneumonia, thermometry gives no aid to diagnosis; the lung may be advancing to destruction, although there is but little variation in the temperature. In (jenuine (primary-croupous) pneumonia the temperature rises rapidly, amounting the first day to ioi° 7, and keeps up continuously 40. 5, to 50. 6, above the normal, with little or no morning remission, until about the fifth or seventh day it falls rapidly, and returns to the nor- mal in thirty-six hours, or less. In cases complicated with pleurisy, bronchitis, or intestinal disorder, in neglected or in grave cases, the defer- vescence may, however, occupy two to three and a-half days. The rapid and early elevation of the temperature, and the absence of remissions, is almost diagnostic of this form of pnemnonia. Catarrhal pneumonia differs from the preceding by its less marked commencement, and the pre- sence of catarrh. Morning and evening variations are much more marked, rapid defervescence is exceptional ; it usually takes place by an increase of the morning remissions, and decrease of the evening exacerbations. Intermittent pneumonia has several falls and subsequent rises of tempera- ture, the type being tertian or quartan. Wunderlich affirms generally that the temperature is the surest measure of the improvement or aggra- vation of a disease, of its running a favourable or unfavourable course, and of the efficacy of treatment. Fleming, A., M.D.—Note on the Cumulative Action of Medicines. Edin. Med. J., Dec. Fleming distinguishes between true cumulative action and apparent. The latter, he says, occurs only when a drug has been given in a solid form, has not been dissolved, and so successive doses have collected in the ali- mentary canal, which suddenly from some cause get dissolved and absorbed and produce violent action. The former term he uses to denote the gradual increase of physiological action from the successive exhibition of equal doses. Each dose is given before the effects of the former have passed off, and the effect is gradually increased. This mode of exhibition should always he pursued with digitalis and aconite. Fleming affirms that he has always found depression of the circulation to take place gradually. On the other hand, with atropia and strychnia it is important to avoid cumulative action, as they are intended to be given for a considerable time. Sequel action is the term Fleming applies to certain effects produced by the con- tinued use of such drugs as alcohol and aconite, and which arc quite distinct from their primary effects, and also from the rcactional which ensue on their withdrawal. Demme, R.—Nitro-gbjcerine as a Remedy. Schweiz. Ztschr. i. p. 156, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 173. This preparation (glonoine) is, according to the author, a powerful and rapidly acting poison, much resembling mix vomica, but more effective than it or its derivatives in many cases. It does not appear to accumulate, bul has not been detected yet in any of the se- or excretions. No injurious consequences have resulted from its continued use. It has been employed chiefly in non-organic paralysis.