5 DIGESTION. of the brain were observed. The blood which was taken from veins pre- sented, in some instances, a bright-red colour, and this was especially the case w'hen the person had remained long in the condensed atmosphere. The movements of the limbs appeared to be more easy than in the noi'mal air. DIGESTION. The Functions and Secretions of the Stomach, Salivary Glands, and Pancreas. Ravitsch, J.— On the influence of the Pneumogastric Nerves upon the Movements of the Stomach. Archiv fiir Anatomie, Physiologie, &c, 1861, p. 770. Meisskeb, Q., and Buettneb.—Researches on the Digestion of Albuminous Substances. Zeitschrift f. Rationelles Medicin, 3rd series, vol. xii, pp. 46—67, 1861. Van Biebyliet.—On the Action of Saliva procured from the Parotid Gland. Bull, de l'Acad. Roy. de Belgique, 10, 1861. Fehb, Cabl.—On the Removal of all the Salivary Glands in Dogs. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxv, p. 187. . Danilewskt, A.—On the specifically-acting Principles of the Natural and of the Artificial Pancreatic Juice. Pathol. Inst, of Berlin, Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxv, p. 279. The influence, which the pneumogastric nerves exert on the movements of the stomach, has been made a subject of study by many eminent phy- siologists ; but the results at which they have arrived are so much at variance with each other, that the question cannot yet be looked upon as fairly settled. Ravitsch performed his experiments on various animals. After they had filled their stomachs with food, he tied a ligature round the upper part of their oesophagus, and divided the pneumogastric nerves in the neck. He invariably observed that after the section the movements of the stomach ceased; but that, on the other hand, the secretion of gastric juice and digestion continued. Twenty-four hours after the operation the stomach was found quite full, and only that part of the food was digested which was in contact with its walls. When irritating substances were introduced into the stomach, with the view of stimulating the peri- pheral ends of the pneumogastric nerves, such movements were produced as sufficed to completely empty the organ. Ravitsch argues that this effect is not produced by the sympathetic nerves, nor by any idio-muscular contractions, but entirely by the pneumogastric nerves. The contents of the stomach of animals which had died from starvation, or which had undergone the section of the pneumogastric nerves, did not yield any peptone, even when, by artificial means, digestion was kept up. The peptones had been absorbed. This Ravitsch found to be the case in horses, which, after twelve days' starvation, had still a full stomach. Absorption is, therefore, not stopped after the pneumogastric nerves have been divided, but it is retarded; and this latter circumstance is most likely due to the retention of food in the stomach.