369 DISEASES OF WOUEM. 'Year-Book' for 1861. ' The subjects now treated of include—dis- charges from the generative organs of non-sanguineous character, in- ■ cliiding the various cases classed under the term " leucorrhcra," and the treatment of such cases; the disorders of micturition ; symptoms re- ferable to the rectum, disturbances in the function of defecation; abnormal sensations referable to the generative organs, pruritus, pain, &c.; the painful sensations associated with menstruation and otherwise. The question, what is the cause of the pain during menstruation in so- called cases of dysmenorrhea? is fully considered, the author stating his conclusion that in such cases partial retention of menstrual fluid is present. The means of procuring dilatation of the cervical canal under such circumstances are discussed. Pains experienced irrespective of menstruation, and the diagnosis of their various causes, are next con- sidered. MISCELLANEOUS. Ellis, Eobert.—Practical inquiry into the properties of Nitrate of Silver; with a description of'a new instrument for its use in Uterine Diseases. Eeport of Obstet. Soc. of Loud., Lancet, May 24th, 1862. The author contends that nitrate of silver is improperly regarded by some writers as simply possessing astringent and stimulant qualities, and he believes that it is really an escharotic, and capable of destroying structure and vitality in the living body and of producing a slough. Nitrate of silver destroys.life and structure to the depth of its pene- trating power, but its power of penetration is extremely limited. The existence of the. chlorides in the animal tissues in abundance explains the apparently feeble escharotic action of nitrate of silver; the chlorides limit the action of the silver by the affinity they possess for it. The author had paid attention to the form of nitrate of silver best adapted for use. He had prepared;several kinds of "tough" caustic, by addition of various substances. An instrument he had contrived, which was in- tended to be used with " perforated caustic," was exhibited. There is a short socket for the caustic, down which a platinum pin (passing through the caustic) is held and retained firmly by a small nut. The caustic could not thus be broken off while beiug used. The caustic used was run in moulds of peculiar shape, and had a perforation in the centre for the wire in the holder. Tannek, Dr.—On the use of Medicated Pessaries in the treatment of Uterine Diseases. Eep. of Obst. Soc. of London, Lancet, Oct nth, 1862. The author remarks that the value of medicated pessaries has been acknowledged, but the difficulty had been in making them so that they could be efficiently applied by the patient herself. He had overcome this difficulty by the use of the butter obtained from the theobroma cacao nut as a material for holding the drugs together. So prepared the pessaries have the consistence of wax while cold, and become liquid iu a few minutes when introduced into the vagina. 24