REPORT ON SURGERY. 2:2S shall have more or less gravity. Accordingly, in virtue of its source alone, syphilis may have different degrees of intensity, and this without its being in the least degree necessary, in order to explain these different degrees, to admit the existence of several viruses. The unequal strength of cow- pox, and of the vaccine fluid, is an example of the attenuation which the same virus may undergo by migration through the organism. Besides account must he taken of the more or less advanced period of evolution of the lesion at the time when the patient was brought into contact with it. If the primary lesions are regarded as more transmissible than the secondary—if among the secondary those which appear soonest, condy- lomata (plaques muqueuses), are considered the most communicable—if the secondary lesions, which are still contagious, are gradually replaced by tertiary affections, which all allow are no longer so—it appears probable that the older a lesion is, the less active is the fluid derived from it, and conversely. " In the second place, and as to the subject infected, it is incontestable that his constitution, his previous and actual health, his hygienic con- dition, &c., exercise an influence upon the intensity and duration of the syphilis which he has contracted. But this difference of the organism— which, moreover, it is very difficult to appreciate—appears to have less power than the source in modifying the malady, in determining the degree of gravity which it shall assume. " An accurate observer, who fairly appreciates the influence of the organism and that of the source, will find that the severe syphilis is gene- rally transmitted by the fluid derived either from an hereditary lesion, or from an indurated chancre; while the mild syphilis is generally trans- mitted by the fluid from a secondary lesion or a chancriform erosion. " The more and more frequent part, which contagion by secondary lesions has taken in the propagation of syphilis, is one of the causes by which we may explain the progressive attenuation of the disease, from the fifteenth century clown to the present time. It will easily be comprehended from what precedes where we are to look for the causes of its reinforcement. " An individual who is, or who has been, syphilitic, is up to a certain point refractory to the contagion of a fresh syphilitic virus. If he is so completely, if he is so to a greater or less degree, if he is so to the ulcera- tive action of the virus, or only to its infecting properties, must depend upon certain causes; namely, first, the degree of strength possessed by the virus to which he has already paid tribute; second, the degree of strength of the virus to which he has latterly been exposed ; third, the period, more or less distant, of his first attack of syphilis. These facts contain the whole theory, still to be perfected (and which Fernel lias so well summed up in two phrases), of unicity, of double chancres, and of double poxes. _ ' J "Symptoms.—I have seen syphilis, though treated methodically by specifics, last for a very long time ; give rise, after affections of the skin, to iritis, disease of the testicles, and then to the so-called tertiary symptoms ; relapse under this form almost indefinitely; or, even though the disease was apparently cured, a tendency to the generation of infected children remain. I call this state of matters severe syphilis. "On the contrary, and more frequently, I have seen syphilis, though