DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 147 Intestines, with Illustrative Cases. Trans, of Med.-Chir. Soc, vol. xlv. . . The author recognises three conditions as capable of causing intestinal obstruction, viz., an excessive accumulation of the contents at some part of their course, some alteration of the intestinal coats themselves, and, lastly, some formation exterior to the intestine. The most reliable signs of lodgment or accumulation in the caecum are, a local tumour with defined margins, painful on pressure, from which the pain seems to radiate, and which may depend on simple distention only, or upon inflammation in the tunics of the canal. If there is merely accumulation, the object is to unload the bowel by means of the warm hip-bath, aloetic pills combined with calomel, or extract of mix vomica. If inflammation is set up, calomel and opium are to be given, and perfect rest in the recumbent or prone position observed. Four illustrative cases are given, of which three recovered. In two, portions of intus-suscepted bowel were passed per anum. Wachsmtjth, A.—Ileus and Enterotomy. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxiii, p. u 8. Wachsmuth believes that invagination generally is caused by an extra- ordinary increase of the movements of the intestines, while some part at the same time is hindered from moving freely, either by internal adhesions, or by external pressure in a narrow abdomen. He records three cases; two wore operated on and died, the third recovered without operation. Opium in full doses, he thinks, is decidedly beneficial in the treatment of invagina- tion, but seems to be much inclined to adopt operative procedure, either that of Haken, by dividing the intestine at some part above the obstruc- tion, and inserting the two ends into another part situated below: or that of Ziingel, who makes only a small opening into the distended bowel, sufficient to evacuate flatus and fluid fteces. In Wachsmuth's cases an artificial anus was made, communicating with the small intestine; one died witli peritonitis, the other apparently from asthenia. Raynaud, Mor.—On Purulent Infiltration of the Stomach- 'Walls. Gaz.~ hebd., viii, 32, 33, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 41. Raynaud gives two cases and cites nineteen others. The affection is far more frequent in males than hi females, and especially in the mid-period of life. It may be located in the muscular coat; or form a circumscribed submucous deposit; or be more or less generally diffused through the wall. The circumscribed abscess is mostly chronic, and is probably one of the causes of the simple ulcer. Purulent infiltration developes itself in the course of general disorders of suppurative tendency. Floors-Jos.—Cancerous Metamorphosis of the whole Stomach. Wicn. Med. Halle, ii, 24, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 46. The stomach had such resisting walls that when cut into it did not collapse; the thickening depended on diffuse cancerous infiltration of the submucous tissue, the mucous membrane and the muscular were not 2