ltKl'ORT OX MIDWIFERY, ETC. whole extent was hypcrtrophicd and of a pinlc colour, increasing in depth towards the fundus, where it attained a dark, livid colour, and was covered over with a quantity of blood. The blood was in greatest quantity at the mouths of the Fallopian tubes, but neither the congested nor hamiorrhagic state of the mucous membrane extended beyond the openings of the tubes. Their interior was white and clean at the uterine extremity, but higlily congested and filled with a milky juice towards the fimbriated end. The mucous secretion was loaded with ciliated and other epithelium. The ovaries were enlarged, the left especially, which contained a Graafian vesicle the size of a marble, ready to burst, and which burst in manipulation. The fimbriated opening of the Fallopian tube was large enough to admit a crow-quill. Campbell, Jas.—On the Age at which Menstruation begins in Siam. Ed. Med. J., Sept., 1862, p. 233. The author states that an ex-royal physician at the court of Siam gave his opinion on the subject as follows:—That sometimes Siamese girls arrive at puberty when only 12 years of age, but more frequently at the ages of 14, 15, 16, 17, and 18 years. The author had not met with an instance of a female who had menstruated before the age of 12 years and 5 months, and he concludes that the mean age at which menstruation commences in Siam is different from that which obtains in India. Dr. Goodeve, of Calcutta, gives 11 years 11 months and 13 clays as the mean, and Dr. Leith, of Bombay, 12 years 5 months as the mean age of commencement of menstruation. Of a series of cases tabulated by the author, the largest number menstruated after attaining the age of 14. Amanjt.—The Methods of Examination in Biseases of Women, icith diagnostic indications for Practitioners and Students: an Introduc- tion to Gyncelcology. Munich, 1861, Giel, 8vo, pp. 96. This work is a brief introduction to the subject of which it treats. The importance of physical examination having been pointed out, and certain anatomical and physiological points alluded to, the methods of investigation are systematically considered.—1. External examination by means of («) the touch, (/;) the inspection, (c) auscultation. 2. The external examination by means of (a) the toucb, (b) the use of the sound, and (c) the use of the speculum. In the latter division of the work the microscopic and physical examination of the vaginal and uterine secretions is described. Tilt, Dr.—On Uterine and Ovarian Inflammations. 8vo, Lond., Churchill, 1862, 3rd edition, with coloured plates, pp. 470. In the preface to the new edition of this work the author states that the work has been re-written ; that in treating of uterine inflammations he has had in view principally the pathology of the body of the womb, a very important and, as yet," little understood subject. Hewitt, Dr. Graily.—Lectures on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Diseases of Women. Brit, Med. .Tourn., Jan. nth, 18th, 25th; Feb. 8th, 15th ; May 10th ; June 21st, 28th ; July 26th, 1862. These lectures are in 'continuation of the series referred to in the