145 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Of fifty cases the prevailing entozoon was the ascaris oxyuris in twenty- eight, the ta?nia solium in seventeen, and the asc. lumbricoides in five. A cure was obtained in nineteen, fifteen were much relieved, nine somewhat improved, and seven not benefited. Most of the cases of taenia were in adults; of the ascarides, in children. Brixton and Blood.—Arch, of Med., No. x, 1862. Both record cases in which the larva? of " musca sarcophaga" were found ahve in the faaces. Colin.—Gaz. Hebdomad., No. 8. Med. T. and Gaz., April 5th. Advocates the use of pomegranate bark in taenia as an effectual and speedy remedy. He gives |ij in three portions (made into a decoction), at intervals of a quarter of an hour, fasting. Trousseau.—On Constipation. Med. T. and Gaz., April 5th. Trousseau recommends, among other means, suppositories of cacao butter, soap, or honey hardened by boiling, small doses of belladonna, and smoking. Martin, Stan.—Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 292. Beconnnends a glass of chalybeate water as the best means of taldng away the taste of cod-liver oil. It is to be swallowed immediately after the oil. The water is to be made by letting rusty nails lie in it. Grantham, J.—Brit. Med. J., June 7th. Records a case of carcinoma of the stomach, in which paroxysms of 1 violence, both mental and bodily, occurred after dinner and supper during seven years. They had increased so much as to cause fear that the patient would become a confirmed lunatic. Oprolzer.—Diagnosis of Tumours of the Abdominal Walls. "Wiener Med. Wochenschr., • Jan. 25th, Feb. 1st, 1862. Brit. Med. J., May 10th. Oppolzer says that a tumour is seated in the abdominal walls, may be : ascertained if it be moveable en masse with them ; if it partake in all the movements communicated to the walls by the pressure of the finger or by respiration; if it can be circumscribed and its thickness measured by the finger. On the other hand, when the swelling is not connected with the abdominal walls, these can be raised freely over it, the integuments are not changed, and can be raised into folds, and deep inspiration renders the swelling indistinct. In cases of tumours of the viscera adhering to the walls, information is often afforded by the difference of the percussion- sound in ex- and in-spiration. Abscesses of various kinds and tumours are noticed, and directions given to aid their diagnosis. Fonssaorives and Leroy de Mericourt.—On the Morbid Symptoms pro- duced b/j the Poisonous Fishes of the Torrid Zone. Ann. d'Hyg., Oct. 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 166. These symptoms may be comprehended under the heads of gastro- 10