HBPOET ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA J1I5DICA. fc52 of Material and on the mean arterial pressure of the Mood. Vireh., vol. xxii, p. 437. The author propounds the following questions, as embodying the subject of this inquiry :—(1) The effect of digitaline being admitted in retarding the action of the heart, what influence does it exercise on the arterial pressure ? (2) Is the diminution of the number of contractions of the heart per minute the result of stimulation of the vagi and of the medulla oblongata, and of the intensification of their regulatory influ- ence on the muscular motor nerves of the heart ? (3) What is the action of digitaline on the exchange of material ? With a view to the investigation of (1), digitaline was injected into the sapbena vein of a dog, and the tube of the manometer was adjusted to the common carotid artery. The instrument used was that of Setschenow, by which the oscillations of the pulse aud undulations of the breathing are simulta- neously recorded. It was eventually observable that, under the influ- ence of digitaline, the range of oscillation of tbe pulse increased as the contractions of the heart were retarded, but that there was neither in- crease nor diminution of tbe mean arterial pressure ; so that the result of the experiment led to the conclusion that digitaline may be given without danger in conditions of disease which are marked by diminished pressure, particularly in diseases of the heart in which the equilibrium of the circulation is disturbed. In this respect the action of digitalis differs entirely from that of stimulation of the vagi, for it was found that when this nerve was stimulated by a weak galvanic current, there is not only diminished frequency of the pulse, but a simultaneous sinking of the mean arterial pressure; so that the second question must be answered in the negative. As regards the effect of digitaline on the exchange of material, the analysis of the urine of healthy persona of various ages, while taking from three-tenths to two-sevenths of a grain in the course of twenty- four hours, led to the following conclusions:—Digitaline cannot be strictly regarded as a diuretic. Moderately large doses were given con- tinuously for five days, without marked increase of the quantity of urine. In one instance, indeed, there was a diminution. In every ease tbere was a considerable foiling off in the daily quantity of the urea and chlorides, and of the salts which resist calcination. The defect urea might, in one instance, be accounted for by the diminution of the whole quantity of urine, but even here tbe relative diminution was con- siderable. In one of the experiments the daily defect amounted to ,3' 1 grammes. There was invariably an increase of the phosphoric and sulphuric acids of the urine, of which no explanation is offered. The author calls attention to the fact that in health the influence of digitaline in retarding the pulse and depressing the temperature of the body is very much less than in pyrexia. This he is only able to explain by referring it to the more general fact that all remedies which act specially on any particular organ exercise that action most energetically when the organ is in a state of disease. Tbaube.— On the Theory of t7ie Action of Digitalis. Med. Cent. Ztg., vol. xxx, No. 94. Schmidt, vol. 114, p. 182.