RKl'OllT ON MIDWEEBBT, ETC. 410 Babnes, Dr. Eobeht.—Albuminuria at the seventh month of Pregnancy; Convulsions; Labour induced by dilatation; Delivery completed in two hours; Recovery. Lancet, Jan. 4, 1862. The patient having had previously lirst slight, then extensive anasarca ; became blind, and then was seized with convulsions, remaining more or less comatose. She was bled with the effect of relieving the lits, re- maining in a comatose state. There was no indication of labour: head presenting. The author's peculiar method was put in operation, the vagina first, and then the os, were dilated by fluid pressure. Turning was attempted, but not successfully • a loop of the cord came down, was pulseless, and the head was then perforated and extracted. The interest of the case consists in the rapidity, certainty, and safety with which labour was induced and completed ; for whereas under ordinary circumstances, delivery could not have been counted on in less than twelve hours, with attendant risks of various kinds, by the method adopted it was effected in two hours. Peldmann.— On the Treatment of Puerperal Convulsions. Bayer. Intell. Bl., 1861. In the treatment of cases of puerperal convulsions the cause of which is the presence of albuminuria, the author advises the employment of tartar emetic. He was led to make systematic trial of this remedy in consequence of the observations of Legroux. Three cases are related. In one, a patient near her full time became affected with convulsions. There was much albumen in the urine; cedema generally. She was bled to twelve ounces, aud every hour was given a dose of tartar emetic and ipecacuanha. The convulsions ceased after vomiting and diarrhoea had been produced After two days consciousness returned. The albumen diminished in quantity. Twelve days later delivery of a living child. Complete re- covery. In the second case an attack of convulsions set in fourteen days after delivery with left hemiplegia. The next day several attacks. Six days later she entered the hospital. Urine strongly albuminous. Two grains of tartar emetic with ipecacuanha produced repeated vomit- ing. The paralysis improved, and the quantity of albumen diminished under this treatment. In eight days she was nearly convalescent. In a third case the remedy was administered to a patient under these cir- cumstances :—During the last month of pregnancy there was obstinate constipation, oedema of face and hands. Labour set in with slight pains, membranes broke, there was intense headache; much albumen in urine. Fearing convulsions the patient was bled; no effect on the headache; no labour pains present. Convulsions set in, and tartar emetic given every ten minutes ; an enema administered, and a second bleeding about eight hours after commencement of labour. The pains which had been slight became vigorous, after repeated vomiting and action of the bowels had been produced. An hour later a second attack of convulsions, immediately followed by delivery of a child which did not at first breathe, but was finally made to do so. Three and a half hours later a third attack of convulsions and a third bleeding. Next day more convulsions; in the evening antimony again given ; the headache diminished, and the patient slept. Next day improve-