METAMORPHOSIS OF MATTER. 27 The decrease for one hour is, therefore, as follows : 7-2 cub. cent. Urine 0-077 grmm. Urea 0-065 grniin. Chloride of sodium 0-014 „ Phosphoric acid 0-005 „ Sulphuric acid o-176 „ Firm constituents This decrease can only be accounted for by absorption, which the con- stituents of the urine undergo during their prolonged stay in the bladder. According to Herrmann's researches, the small arteries which enter the capsules of the kidney take a share in the secretion of the urine. After the renal artery had been tied, Hermann observed, in three cases out of eighteen, that the urine was, nevertheless, secreted uninterruptedly, and even with greater rapidity than previous to the operation. The urine which was secreted after the circulation had been interrupted for several hours contained albumen, sometimes in large quantities. Herrmann performed also experiments on the partial closure of the artery, that is, on the diminution of the pressure of blood within the kidney. He concludes from these experiments that it is not the dimi- nished rapidity of the current of blood, but the diminished pressure, which causes a proportionate diminution in the secretion of urine; and as secretion ceases altogether when a certain minimum of pressure is attained, so also, when a certain maximum of pressure is surpassed, does the urine assume abnormal qualities. Herrmann believes that the urine secreted in the Malpighian bodies is very concentrated, and that during its passage through the urinary tubes urea is taken up again into the blood. He supports this view by Btating that only during very slow secretion of a concentrated urine it was found that its amount of urea was diminished, that this diminution grew larger when pressure was exerted against the outflow of urine, and that the urea disappeared entirely when, by means of a ligature round the ureter, the urine was retained in the kidney. When the secretion of urine was retarded by pressure impeding its outflow, it was found to contain creatine in considerable quantity. METAMORPHOSIS OF MATTER. Pettenkofer, M., and Voit, C—On Respiration. Ann. der Chem. u. Pharm., Suppl., Band ii, pp. 1—70, 1862. Eanke, J oh.—Elimination of Carbon and Nitrogen in the Human Sub- ject during Best. Arch, fur Anat., Physiol., &c, July, 1862. Pettenkofer's experiments, which were made with the aid of his new respiratory apparatus, are very satisfactory. A diagram and description of the apparatus are given in the ' Lancet,' November 1st, 1862, p. 473. In testing the accuracy with which the quantity of carbonic acid con- tained in his apparatus could be ascertained, he found that the greatest error amounted to 1 per cent.; the average was not more than -3 per cent. Test experiments were also made in reference to oxygen, and were equally satisfactory. The testing of water was at first not quite so accurate, which circumstance was due to the hygroscopic properties of the walls of the apparatus; but the error grew less in each succeeding experiment. *