290 ItEPOttT ON SURGERY. the tongue drawn out of the newly formed aperture : all the disease seemed to he removed, but the operation was long, tedious, and unsatis- factory. The wound was not entirely closed till the 22nd of June. Tn the beginning of September, the disease had already returned, and on the 21st of the same month the following operation was performed. Op- posite the right lower canine tooth, an incision was carried through the lip, and down to a little below the edge of the jaw ; a second and hori- zontal incision under the red border of the lip was carried to near the angle of the jaw on the left side, and then at right angles downwards to a little below the margin of the maxilla. The right canine tooth was now extracted, and the soft parts separated so far as to allow a section of the jaw with the chain saw ; another section was made in the same way oppo- site the last molar tootli but one. The soft*parts were now separated from the inner side of the jaw, so that it could be turned downwards, as on a hinge. The cavity was in this way lnrgely exposed, and every por- tion of diseased tissue was removed with accuracy and safety; a number of small arteries were ligatured, and the jaw was then replaced. It was fixed in its position behind by two bone-sutures of platinum wire, in front by wire twisted round the teeth ; the soft parts were united by metallic sutures ; a gutta-percha splint, which had been carefully fitted beforehand, was then applied. The wire around the teeth did not hold well; six times it was replaced, till finally on the 26th October, a bone-suture was inserted also in front. On the 27th November, the patient left; the jaw had firmly united in front, but was still slightly moveable behind ; no further disfigurement of the countenance than the cicatrices. According to a letter of the 5th February, 1862, the patient continues well; there has been no return of the disease. Case 2.—J. S—, set. 34 years, a very powerful man, was admitted into hospital on the 10th December, 1861, for a tumour of the neck, which had first made its appearance fourteen months previously. This swelling occupied the whole of the upper part of the neck on the left side, reached backwards to the ear, filled up the whole space under the jaw on the left side, and again made its appearance in the pharynx ; the soft palate was partly ulcerated, partly pushed forwards ; by means of the finger a part of the tumour could be felt attached to the side of the larynx. On the outer side of the tumour there was an ulceration of some depth, and of the size of a half-crown, with serous discharge. The swelling was as large as a child's bend, and felt hard but elastic. Dr. Billroth represented to the man the great danger of an operation ;—he made his will and determined to submit to it, provided the surgeon could see any possibility of recovery. The tumour might be an epithelial cancer ; it appeared, however, more like a sarcoma of the lymphatic glands. Billroth bad learned from cases operated on by Langenbeck, and also from dissections on the subject that, in regard to the displacement of the more important parts in the neck by tumours, the pneumogastric generally remains near the carotid, but that the internal jugular vein is often pushed outwards, and thus entirely sepa- rated from the artery. Owing to the tumour penetrating deeply into the pharynx, it appeared indispensable to resect the jaw, and indeed to dis- articulate it on the left side.—An incision was carried round the external ulceration, and prolonged upwards on to the cheek, somewhere about the