PREGNANCY AND CHILD-BED. 399 may be no milk-fever ; in robust women, living in tbe country, it will be present. By the word fever, as now used, must be understood elevation of the pulse fifteen to twenty beats, a little headache, slight shiverings, a slightly white, furred tongue, hardness and tumefaction of the breasts. The difficulty of distinguishing this slight fever from the more severe disease is occasionally not inconsiderable. The pulse is the guide. As a general rule, we may say that if the pulse is above 100 in a woman delivered two or three days previously, there is something more than milk-fever to cause it. This is a rule to which an exception will be met only once in a thousand cases. The morbid conditions should be sought for in the following order—the hypogastric region, the genital organs, the chest, the articulations, the skin. These parts must be successively investigated, but in some cases the cause of the elevation of the pulse escapes us. In some cases it is the precursor of a cutaneous eruption. In most women the milk-fever appears in from forty-eight to sixty-two hours after delivery, not generally before, sometimes on the fourth, fifth, and even sixth day. The milk-fever lasts only a day. Stadfelt.— On the Etiology of Hydronephrosis. Hosp. Tidend. Copenhagen, June, 1861. Mon. f. G-eb., July, 1862. Pressure on the ureters is ordinarily the cause of hydronephrosis, this pressure arising from carcinoma of the uterus, fibroid tumour of the uterus, ovarian cysts. The other causes are inflammatory processes in tbe ureters, calculi or cancer in the ureters. Cases are related in illustration of this subject. Case 1.—An ovarian tumour was present in a woman, set. 22, who had had repeated attacks of peritonitis; the size of the tumour was that of the head of a seven to eight months' foetus, and it was fixed by adhesions in the pelvis. There was present an advanced stage of dropsy of the right kidney; the left was enlarged. Case 2.—That of a woman who died six weeks after labour; the glands in the lumbar region enlarged; the pelves of the kidneys enlarged; right ureter very small, but permeable, in tbe pelvis ; enlarged above: left kidney and ureter normal. The glandular enlargement was above the strictured portion of the ureter. The right crural vein was filled with thrombi and puriform matter. Case 3.—Death after labour in a forceps case. The uterus had been inclined to the right side. Infil- tration of cellular tissue around the right ureter in pelvis; dilatation of ureter above this point; pelvis of right kidney much dilated. Left ureter dilated above the left common iliac artery ; left kidney normal. The ureter may, it is evident, be pressed upon by the uterus, when the latter is inclined to one side, at the brim of the pelvis. As in Case 4, though the labour was long, the head remained some time at the pelvic inlet. Death seventeen days after delivery. Laceration of the posterior uterine lip, 1" long; this torn part was adherent to the anterior part of the rectum ; uterus dragged to right and posterior side of the pelvis. The broad ligament, the Fallopian tube, and ovary of that side, formed a roll-shaped tumour, extending into the right renal region. Right spermatic artery thickened, its lower part filled with a thrombus. The right ureter, from the right common iliac artery to the right angle of the uterus, much dilated, thickened, and ecchymosed; the pelvis of the kidney