GENERAL ANATOMY' AND PHYSIOLOGY. 331 circumference of the placenta. The author considers the fact important, as a possible element in the explanation of certain cases of malformation of the fcetus and of certain anomalies of the amnion and umbilical cord. Aebeitee.—On the Continuance of Independent Activity in the Uterus after the death of 'the individual. Bayer. Aerztl. Int. Bl., 1861, H. 2. A patient pregnant for the fifteenth time was attended by a midwife at the full time. Presentation—head, arm, and funis. Death of the patient, undelivered, twenty-four hours after commencement of labour. The author was called to the patient, and arrived when she was dead. The uterus was not to be felt as a compact body through the abdominal walls. He turned and delivered the child, and, introducing the hand, found rupture of the uterus and vagina had been the cause of death, the intestines protruding through a large rent. Now, on examining externally, a hard, firm tumour was found, caused by the contracted uterus. From the time of the death of the woman to that at which this contraction was detected an interval of fully an hour had passed over. The deduction drawn is that the contractility of the uterus may persist for a considerable time after death, and the facts of the case further show the possibility of spontaneous delivery after death. Klob.—On the Migration of Ova. "Wien. "Wochenbl., xvii, p. 40, t86i. The fact that occasionally, when the uterus is duplex, and in some cases of Fallopian pregnancy, an ovum is found in that half of the uterus opposite to the ovary in which the corpus luteum is met with, has been explained by supposing that the ovum migrated, after passing into the uterus from one side to the other. The author contends that in such cases the ovum really enters on the side on which it is found; that the Fallopian tube of one side becomes, under such circumstances, the recipient of the ovum from the opposite ovary. This opinion is justified by a case reported by Bokitansky, in which the corpus luteum was found in the left ovary, while the left Fallopian tube was adherent in such a manner that there could be no doubt that the right Fallopian tube must have been the means of conveying the ovum to the uterus. Further, in post-mortem examinations the coexistence of long tubes and movable ovaries is far from uncommon. The explanation of Kuss- maul, that there is a migration in the uterus due to spasmodic con- tractions of this organ, he considers inadequate and erroneous. Mitchell, Dr. Aether.— 'Plural Births in connexion with Idiocy. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 15th, 1862. The author, having had officially to examine and report on a large proportion of the idiots in Scotland, was struck with the fact that so frequently it was stated that the patient was one of twins. The subject was, therefore, carefully examined. In 494 cases of idiots or imbeciles the result was as follows:—Information deficient in fifty-one cases; information defective on some points, good on others, seventy-nine. Of