485 FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. night I also went out, but returned and lighted my candle and walked up and down, with my razor in my hand, looking at my children with strong affection, for I was striving to keep myself back ; I was not strong enough. I put back the razor, and went to attend to my cattle. The third night I went out several times and came back 'mauvaisement,' to do the deed. I was ready." He then relates the manner in which he accomplished his crime. After its accomplishment he stated that he experienced a great relief, but immediately dressed himself and ran off at full speed into the woods. There he remained for seven days without food, until, pressed by hunger, he returned to his village, drank from his own well, was seen by a neighbour, and arrested. Pagez had been subject from his youth to copious epistaxis, and it appeared that at the time he first became subject to the idea of homicide this haemorrhage had suddenly ceased. The author observes that the manner in which he related the details of his crime and the good sense of his answers are evidences of the rectitude of his judgment, so that, if we are to suppose that in its accomplishment he yielded to an irresistible impulse, "a perversion of the will," we must admit this condition to have been transitory, and in this case the act did not appear to have been committed either in obedience to the suggestion of an erroneous sensation or to any absurd or unreasonable idea, but to a kind of " automatic deter- mination," which he was unable to resist, although preserving " the integrity of his reason and the complete consciousness of his actions." As being incapable of crime, though dangerous to society, Pagez was placed in the asylum at Orleans. Billod.—Medico-legal Report on the ease of Lacoste. Ann. Med. Psychol., vol. viii, p. 10. HOSPITAL.—Medico-legal Report on the mental condition of Joseph Tixier, accused of three murders. Ann. Med. Psych., vol. viii, p. 113. Etoc-Demazy.—On a case of Suicidal and Homicidal Mania. Med. Psychol., vol. viii, p. 223. Billod.—Report on the mental state of Marie Kerdal, accused of attempting to poison her master. Ibid., p. 213. Combes.—Report on the mental state of Christina R—, accused of in- cendiarism. Ibid., p. 237. The above cases, all of which present peculiar points of considerable interest, are too lengto be abstracted. 32