493 OCCUPATIONS. Hannover.—Diseases of Artisans, according to the Reports of the Civil Hospitals at Copenhagen. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvii, p. 294. The purpose of the author is to determine the degree of frequency of internal diseases among artisans. The existence of guilds, and the strict- ness with which these guilds are limited and defined, in Copenhagen, afford great facilities in ascertaining the prevalence of diseases among the members of each trade. Of 9837 males admitted into the hospitals of Copenhagen in five years, 3681 were artisans and 6156 non-artisans. On comparing these numbers with those of each class in the population of the city, it appears that 33-i per cent, of the whole number of artisans, but only 12*2 per cent, of the whole number of non-artisans, were ad- mitted during the period in question. Of those admitted, 1387, or i4"i per cent., d'ed, viz., io-2 per cent, of the artisans and 16*4 per cent, of the non-artisans. After analysing the admissions and deaths in relation to the various diseases affecting persons of each class of occupation, the author proceeds to examine each disease separately. He has devoted most attention to the subject of phthisis, in reference to which he con- cludes that workmen habitually exposed to moist air, or engaged in the manufacture of damp materials, such as dyers, tanners, tobacco-workers, and rope-makers, are rarely phthisical; that those who work in the open air enjoy the greatest immunity, while those who spend the whole of their time of labour in close and foul workshops (tailors, weavers, jewellers, printers, and shoemakers) are more liable to pulmonary tubercle than any others. The author also attaches much importance to the maintenance of the sitting posture, with the body leaning forwards, as a predisposing cause to consumption; whereas, on the contrary, such labour as is per- formed in the erect posture, and requires a considerable exertion and repeated muscular movements, appears to him to exercise a most favor- able preventive influence. The paper also contains important statistical information as to the liability of persons of various occupations, to mental diseases. Vernois.— On the Hands of Labourers and Artisans, considered in relation to Legal Medicine and Hygiene. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvii, p. 104. The purpose of M. Vernois' paper is to point out the best means of obviating some of the inconveniences and dangers incident to various branches of industry, and to determine the value of the alterations of the hand, resulting from the exercise of various occupations, as characters of identification. The essay is divided into three parts: the first comprises 150 observations of the lesions observable in various trades, in respect of each of which the manner in which the several lesions are produced is discussed; in a second division the author generalises the preceding facts ; and in conclusion defines the value and significance of each altera- tion as a pathognomonic sign of the cause which produced it. His most important conclusions are as follows :—Attenuation and abrasion of the cuticle is much more characteristic than thickening. It is observed in a marked degree in a few occupations only, which differ remarkably in their general nature, e.g. in the manufacture of catgut, in the collection of ants' eggs for feeding pheasants (action of formic acid), in hairdressing,