REPORT ON SURGERY. 284 in size the optic disc, though by several running into one, they may occasionally appear to be much larger. Not unfrequently a great number of pale-reddish spots, which are probably caused by some change in the choroidal pigment, may be seen between them. At different stages of the disease different appearances are presented; the earliest, perhaps, being always the formation of black spots, which are really tubercles covered by black pigment. As the tubercle increases in size, the pigment disappears from its middle, so that there is the appearance of a black ring with a bright centre. The latter continues to increase, and the black ring dis- appears at places. The disease always begins, and is therefore most advanced, near the mascula lutea. Central vision suffers in a variable degree; peripheral not to any extent. The patients are generally mode- rately myopic; their most distant point of distinct vision being from seven to twenty inches. The progress of the case is usually very slow ; occasionally, however, there are exacerbations. It was observed at various ages between seventeen and fifty-three ; in eighteen cases both eyes were affected eleven times, one eye seven times; no connexion with any con- stitutional disease, such as syphilis, could be found, it appears probable that complete blindness is rarely induced; on the other hand the disease is dangerous because of its teudency to slowly advance, and thus to seriously affect central vision. Decided improvement may be effected by treatment, thus a patient, who could only read No. 16 of Jfiger, became able to manage No. i. Dr. Forster has found the bichloride in the dose of half to one grain daily to be the most efficient means. It must be steadily continued for six or eight weeks, and should only be abandoned, when no furtner improvement results, or when the stomatitis, diarrhoea, &c, become excessive. So long as the latter symptoms are not too severe, the medicine may be given in less doses, or stopped for a few days, and then recommenced. It is often well to combine it with quinine. Dr. Forster has administered with benefit to his patients from thirty-six to sixty grains. Where sublimate for some reason cannot be given, iodide of potassium may be administered in its place. This treatment should be strictly pursued ; at least ten drachms must have been taken, before it is abandoned as useless. Dr. Forster has also seen benefit from treatment with purgatives; such treatment must be continued for eight to twelve weeks, aud at the same time the diet should be nutritious and easily digested. Dr. Forster would, however, only use this method in cases, where the two preceding means could not be employed. There is a form of choroiditis, which occurs as a symptom of secondary syphilis choroiditis disseminata. It is characterised by numerous, cir- cumscribed, white spots on the choroid, wbich are surrounded by a red border. The parts around the posterior pole are the first attacked. The prognosis is favorable, for the white spots on the choroid are little exu- dations, which may be completely reabsorbed. Thus the perfect recovery, which may take place in this form, the readiness with which the disease yields to treatment, the absence of any ring of black pigment, the very different course, the causal conditions distinguish this disease sufficiently from choroiditis areolaris. It may be noted, that the grouping of the spots is quite different in the two diseases ; the spots in choroiditis