REPORT ON SURGEHY. [84 pp. 326, ,385). Billroth commences with expressing his surprise, that among the many works on fever published since the thermometer has been applied to its study, none should yet have treated the traumatic variety, apparently the simplest form of a febrile complaint. It is in the study of this variety, if anywhere, that we ought to discover the real nature of fever. Nothing appears more simple than to observe the changes in the temperature of the body, in the frequency of the pulse, and in the metamorphosis of tissue, which occur in a healthy man at a definite time, and are evidently caused by some distinct injury, such as an amputation. In such cases clinical observation has all the precision of experiment. Were we to study traumatic fever on animals, we could not render the particular momenta more exact, nor vary them to a greater extent, than what really occurs by accident in any large surgical clinic. In commencing his observations, the author laid down certain questions for examination, such as the following :—Has traumatic fever any typical course? How is it modified? What is its relation to hectic? What is the course of the fever in pyaemia, in traumatic erysipelas, or in trismus ? The most important symptom of fever is the increase in the temperature of the blood, to which accordingly the author has paid special attention ; at the same time he has never neglected to note the rapidity of the pulse, and has also examined occasionally the urine. The temperature was measured in the axilla exactly according to the directions of v. Baren- sprung and Traube. The thermometers employed were made by Geissler, in Berlin, with the centigrade graduation, each degree being divided into ten parts. In twenty observations made on healthy individuals the author found a minimum of 36'$° (in the morning between eight and nine), and a maximum of 37*9° (in the evening between five and six). Thus the normal temperature of healthy persons may vary "in the day to the amount of r6° ; in one and the same healthy person, however, the greatest dif- ference between the morning and evening temperature was 1-2°. A patient may be considered to be without fever when the temperature has fallen and remained for twenty-four hours below 37-Q°, the maximum of the normal heat; in the same way the temperature is below the normal when it sinks to less than 36-3°. Billroth calls the febrile condition, which for the most part rapidly follows a wound, traumatic fever. After the traumatic fever has ended, or, in other words, after the temperature of a patient has been below the maximum of the normal temperature for at least twenty-four hours, there often occurs a fresh attack of fever, although no special complication, such as erysipelas, trismus, or pyaemia, has supervened. This fresh attack he denominates a secondary fever (Nachfieber). Such secondary attacks may be repeated a number of times; for the most part they are caused by fresh inflammations of the wound—fresh inflammations, which may be readily enough perceived, but of which we often fail in tracing the cause.