11EP0IIT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 398 nature of the loeliial secretion. Specimens were taken from women during the latter part of labour, two hours after labour, and seven or eight hours after labour. These specimens were microscopically examined by Eobin, who, without knowing the source of the fluid examined, pronounced that the first specimen contained mucus, blood-globules, and some pus-corpuscles. In the second specimen the same elements were discovered. In the third specimen the pus-globules were still more numerous. Other observers, Tarnier and Vulpian, had not found pus in the lochia, but the author considers that the different result is ex- plainable by the presence of puerperal fever in the wards at the time his own researches were made. Is it not possible, the author asks, that under favorable conditions the uterine wound cicatrizes rapidly by the first intention and without suppurating, while under less favorable conditions a suppuration extending over a longer or shorter time occurs ? Towards the fifth or sixth day the sanguinolent tinge of the lochial discharge disappears. It may return again for a short time, owing to imprudence in getting up or other cause. The duration of the discharge is variable, according to the constitution of the patient and other causes. As a rule, the discharge ceases on the twentieth day. In women who do not suckle, menstruation appears again at the end of six weeks, sometimes later. Fetidity of the lochial discharge is not always due to retention and putrefaction of a clot. It may occur irrespective of this, and may indicate danger of an epidemic affection. Pajot.—On the Atrophy of the Uterus after Labour. Graz. des Hop., March nth, 1862. The following are the results of some of the author's observations. Just after labour the uterus reaches to the umbilicus; in 100 cases, taken at random, the uterus was still above the pubis as long as seven days after labour. On the seventh day in one case only was the uterus below the pubis ; on the eighth day it was below that point in six cases, on the ninth in four, on the tenth in four. Subsequently it was difficult to follow the cases as they left the hospital. On the eleventh day in one case the uterus was below the symphysis, on the twelfth in one case also. In more than eighty cases, followed carefully, and who were not ill, seventeen only had the uterus below the symphysis at the twelfth day. In women who had not been ill the uterus was found five centimetres above the pubis at the twelfth day, in a second six centimetres, in a third case at eight centimetres. Uterine haemor- rhage appears to be an obstacle to the retreat of the organ, for in two cases of this kind the uterus at the sixth day was still seven centimetres above the pubis. At term the uterus consists of three parts—fibre-cells, fatty granulations, and amorphous matter. Each of these undergoes resorption. In about six weeks the uterus returns very nearly, but not quite, to its original size. Pajot.—On Milk-fever. Gaz. des Hop., March nth, 1862. Is there such a thing as milk-fever ? is the first question to be deter- mined. There is probably truth in both the affirmative and the negative answer. In women of debilitated habits, and dwelling in towns, there