GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 35 aective tissue at the same time does not fluidify, the pus serum is an effused fluid. Billroth, Th.—On the Minute Structure of morbidly affected Lymph- glands. Virchow's Archiv. xxi, p. 423, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 27. The enlarged mesenteric glands of typhoid and tuberculous patients show- great enlargement of the capillaries and of the lymph-sinuses, the latter being filled-with large many-nucleated cells. In the second stage the capillaries are no longer dilated, while necrosis of the gland substance takes place in separate foci. A granular degeneration of the tissue also occurs, especially at the junction of the cortical and medullary portions. In hyper- trophied glands the lymph-passages are completely obstructed and imper- vious. Most morbid changes begin in the lymph-sinuses. Erichsen, J.—On the Texture and Development of Gelatinoid Sarcomata. Petersb. Ztschr. i. p. 313, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 283. In a tumour removed from the lower jaw of a stout peasant, jet. 20, Erichsen found three different forms of tissue. That which originally was analogous to mucoid tissue became, by cell-growth and fibrefying of the homogeneous basis substance, more fibrous ; by increase and further deve- lopment of the fibre-bundles there was produced an alveolar tissue, gradually approximating to fibro-cartilage; the fibre-bundles subsequently assumed a looser disposition ; elastic fibres increased in number; and by the deposi- tion of colloid substance the tumour finally assumed a preponderating colloid character. Meissner, H.—A Summary of what is known respecting the Occurrence of Echinococci and Cysticerci Celluloso3 in the Human Subject. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 183. The greater part of this Eeport is taken up with cases of hydatid tumours occurring in the liver, lungs, heart, brain, kidneys, muscles, and in other unusual localities. In the introductory part there are some interesting pesearches by Davaine (Gaz. de Paris, 20, 21, 1862), relative to the mode of production of the hydatid fremitus. Briancon had previously found that the fremitus was easily perceived when a number of hydatids were enclosed in a pig's bladder filled with water, but that it diminished and ceased when the number of hydatids was reduced to a very few. Briancon, in place of hydatids, employed artificial bladders made of elastic and inelastic material, and instead of water used fluids of different density and viscidity, as ether, alcohol, oil, honey, saline solutions. Fremitus was never perceived except the bladders were fully distended; with the elastic ones it was distinct whether they were large or small, with the others only when they were above the size of a walnut. With elastic bladders, greater density of the contents appeared to increase the vibrations, whilst a greater viseddjifcy had the opposite effect. When the bladders were distended with different gases no fremitus at all was perceived. Increasing the size of the bladders had but not a very marked, effect in increasing the fremitus. With regard to the fluid external to the bladders (hydatids) the vibration