16 KEPOllT ON PHYSIOLOGY. Htosohmedt, E., and Molesciiott, Iac— On the Irritation of lite Medulla Oblonr/ala and Spinal Cord, in reference to its effect on the •equency of the Pulse. Moleschott's Unter. zur. Naturlh., vol. viii, part vi, 1862. Golz.—On the Causes of the Movements of the Heart. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxiii, p. 487, 1862. Colin, G.—On the Pulsating and Rhythmical Movements of the Sinus of the Vena Cava. Superior in Mammalias. Comptes llendus, vol. lv, Sept. 22nd, 1862. Schiff. — On the Effect of Reflex Action upon the Vaso-motor Nerves. Comptes llendus, vol. lv, Sept. 29th, 1862. Sucquet.—On the Circulation of the Blood in the Limls and in the Head of the Human Subject. Bull, del'Acad., xxvi, pp. 825—853. Colin, G.—On the Sensibility of the Visceral Arteries. Comptes Rendus, vol. lv, Sept. 1st, 1862. Schweigger-Seidel.—On the Passage of Solid Substances from the Blood into the Lymphatic Vessels. Studien d. physiol. Inst, zu Breslau, 1861, p. 57. Teichmann, L.—The Lymphatic System from an Anatomical Point of View. Leipzig, 1861. Spring maintains that the action of the heart ought to be divided into three chief periods—a presystole, a systole, and a diastole. He states that Vesal already entertained that view. The presystole consists in the dilatation of the ventricles, the lowering of the atrio-ventricular valves, and the contraction of the walls of the auricles. During this action the blood is sucked up into the ventricles. The change of position which the valves undergo produce a peculiar, third sound of the heart, which has not been noticed hitherto, and which may be called the presystolic sound. The systole, by which the blood is driven into tyie arteries, follows immedi- ately upon the prsesystole, beginning at the base and extending to the apex of the ventricles. During this period the atrio-ventricular valves ascend and shut up the opening, producing the systolic sound of the heart. The systole ceases suddenly. The diastole which then follows forms a period of rest, in which the walls of the ventricles remain in contact with each other. The diastolic sound of the heart is heard during this period. Beau is of opinion that the ventricles are empty during the second period of the heart's action. The true diastole and systole follow each other so rapidly, that the period which encloses both has been generally regarded as merely the period of the contraction of the ventricles. Beau therefore distinguishes a period of diastole-systole, in which the ventricles are at first dilated by the blood which enters into them, and then contracted by the action of the muscular fibres; and a second period— that of rest. Hufschmidt and Moleschott performed experiments on rabbits, with a view of determining the influence of irritation of the medulla oblongata and of the spinal cord on the frequency of the pulse. For the purpose of irritating the medulla oblongata, a gimlet with an ivory handle was