408 EBPOB.T ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. behind. The author recommends that the bowels he moved by a full laxative dose of castor-oil as soon after delivery as the patient can con- veniently lake it, instead of waiting three or four days, as is the usual practice. The proper management of the lacteal secretions is con- sidered of importance, aud that it is good practice to put the child early to the breast. The subject of puerperal fever is incidentally discussed. Secondly, the vitiation of the blood tending to febrile disease is the last pathological link connecting the phenomena of labour with those of phlegmasia dolens. The circumstances present after labour predispose to blood vitiation. These are enumerated :—presence of devitalized blood, of an extensive wound, of retention of placenta or secundines, puriform or inflammatory discharges from the uterine wound, presence of organic products of disintegration of uterine tissue. Some superadded agency is, however, necessary:—i, septic matter introduced by finger of attendant or otherwise ; 2, operation of epidemic influence ; 3, septic agencies, such as erysipelas or scar- let fever; 4, confined, impure air; 5, depression from haemorrhage or other cause. The preventive treatment based on the foregoing con- siderations should consist in observance of hygienic aud dietetic rules, and steady use of antiseptic injections. For the latter purpose creasote (one drop to an ounce of water) may be beneficially employed after water alone has been used. The curative treatment is considered under two heads, the sthenic and the adynamic. In the treatment of the latter class of cases full, concentrated, and frequently repeated doses of car- bonate of ammonia in fresh infusion of senna are highly spoken of. The varying circumstances of different cases necessitate a corresponding variety in the treatment. Pox, Dr. Tilbury.— On the Vessels concerned in the production of Phlegmasia Dolens. Rep. of Obstet. Soc. of London, Lancet, July 26th, 1862. The author considers Dr. Mackenzie's experiments insufficient to de- termine the question of the. production of phlegmasia dolens, and argues that venous obstruction is followed by oedema only ; that the action must be the same whether the obstruction be produced locally or indirectly through a vitiated blood conditiou. If any difference exists in the two cases, the changes over and above oedema which characterise the lesion as phlegmasia dolens, must be ascribed to the action of the blood state (absent in the locally produced disease) upon the general textures of the limb. If this view be adopted, the influence of the veins is nil, and we must look for the explanation in a special action carried on between the blood aud the tissues. The clinical history forbids the acceptance of such a doctrine, inasmuch as the very conditions (viz., blood vitiation tending to produce "phlebitis") which are regarded as the cause of pblegmasia dolens very frequently exist, and yet are very rarely followed by white leg; for example, in the various blood poisonings unconnected with the parturient condition. If present under the circumstances men- tioned the disease ought not to be so frequently unilateral, nor confined to the lower limbs. The occurrence of phlegmasia dolens in cases of cancer, phthisis, pressure, &c, cannot be explained thereby. The death-