NERVOUS STSTEM. 87 the disorder hccomes chronic, revulsive measures, moxas, cauteries are to be used. It often occurs that this neuralgia loses its local character, and becomes quite similar to the chronic idiopathic form, requiring then anti- spasmodics, alterants, and sedatives. Excision of a portion of the affected nerve is sometimes advantageous. As special forms of traumatic neuralgia Bergson describes, and quotes cases of (a) phlebotomic; (b) traumatic of the thumb, and other fingers; (c) of the hand and its articulations ; and (d) neuralgia of the stump after amputation. The author next describes neuromatous neuralgias of the various brachial nerves, and what he terms commotor neuralgia of children with paralysis (the aim being injured by the child being pulled along by it). The next group are the Rheumatic Neuralgias, which are described as affecting the several nerves, and also the hand and forearm. The latter form he describes as commencing with formication and lessening of the cutaneous sensibility, which may increase to complete antesthesia. The severest pain comes on in the night, and ends with the dawn of day, though the fingers still feel numbed and painful. There is no increase of temperature, though the patients often complain of intolerable heat in the affected part. Gamberini observed this form mostly in laundresses who had not been long engaged in the work, and states that it was usually ciu-ed by belladonna ointment. Others have found large doses of quinine requisite. He next remarks on the well- known sympathetic neuralgias, whose pains are not so violent, more dull, without tender points, and occur more by day than night. Deuteropathic Neuralgias are the common hysterical or chlorotic, the saturnine, and those resulting from spinal irritation. The saturnine affected the arms eighty- eight times in 2171 cases noticed by Tanquerel. No definite relation exists between the intensity of colic and of the nem'algia. The symptom first observed in these cases is torpor and weaiiness of the limb, which increases day after clay. After some time the pain sets in mostly in the night, it is diminished by pressure, increased by movements, exists chiefly on the side of flexion, and does not follow the course of a nerve definitely. The paroxysms are very violent, last some minutes, occur mostly at night, and are reproduced by movement or by a cold draught of air. The pains do not cease wholly during the intervals, and the limbs have still the sensation of weariness and torpor. Treatment by sulphuret of potassium, baths and purgatives, is successful in from three to six days. The last group are the acute and chronic idiopathic neuralgias, whose characteristic is to be without any discoverable pathological cause. The chronic is often very obstinate. The diagnosis of neuritis from neuralgia is made to turn chiefly on the former being the result of injury or the painful nerve being found to be enlarged. Remak, R.—On Neuritis. CEstcrrh. Ztschr. f. Prakt. Heilk. vii, 48, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 28. Remak describes various paralyses and atropines, neuralgias and con- tractions, which are all curable by the constant current. Besides brachial and sciatic neuritis, there exists also a lumbo-sacral, which causes a con- siderable paraplegia, associated with paralysis of the bladder and secondary nephritis, and often with great atrophy.