374 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. AFFECTIONS OF OS AND CERVIX UTEEI. Hicks, Dr. Bbaxton.—On Cauliflower Excrescence of the Os Uteri. Guy's Hosp. Hep., 1861. Seven cases in which this disease was treated are related. The author believes that the treatment is efficacious in proportion as it is early; and if tho growth be removed at an early stage of its growth, its reappear- ance is not to be dreaded. Where the whole disease cannot be removed, a partial alleviation of the symptoms follows an operation, the dis- charge and the haemorrhage being so far arrested. The knife is objec- tionable, both because it sometimes cannot be easily used, and because of the haemorrhage which may follow; the ligature is objectionable for other reasons, The wire-rope ecraseur, an instrument constructed by the author, has been found well adapted for the removal of the diseased parts; and if the rope cannot be passed round the tumour by the hand, this can be effected by means of a double canula. With reference to the nature of the affection and the various forms presented in different cases, this depends, it is stated, on the tissue affected. It is allied to encephaloid, and in the same case the body of the uterus and upper part of the cervix may present the appearances of scirrhus, while the surface presents that of the cauliflower excrescence and the vaginal mucous membrane that of epithelioma. Beaux, Prof. — On Menstrual Retention. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., 1861, Nos. 13, 53. The author relates four cases of menstrual retention. In the first case the patient, aet. 17, had suffered from menstrual retention, due to imperforate hymen and atresia of the vagina for a short distance above this point, for a period of ten months. An operation was performed, and relief afforded. An attack of peri-uterine hamiatocele occurred on the fourth day. At the end of two months she recovered, and subse- quently menstruated regularly. The three other cases are cases of acquired atresia of the vagina or uterus. In two cases there was closure of the os uteri, consequent on operations for removal of portions of cervix ; in the fourth case atresia of the vaginal aperture, consequent on ulcerations during an attack of fever. Davis, Dr. Hall.—Complete Occlusion of the Os Uteri and Retention of the Menses following Difficult Labour. Rep. of Obst. Soc. of London, Lancet, April 19th, 1862. In this case there was occlusion of the os after a difficult labour. After the labour there was a purulent discharge from the vagina for three months. Fifteen months later she had not menstruated at all since the labour; the uterus was the size of a four months' gravid uterus ; no orifice to be felt at the situation of the os uteri. Six ounces of a treacly, menstrual fluid were drawn off by a canula and trochar, and a catheter left in the uterus. Attempts to keep the orifice open, together with premature exertion on the part of the patient, resulted in an attack of