REPORT ON PUACTICAL MEDICINE. 72 He regards it us a stimulant to the sympatlietic, the motor nerve of tlie blood-vessels, whose morbid dilatation it tends to counteract. He lias, for the most part, used belladonna hitherto, commencing with one-eighth grain of the extract and increasing the dose to one-fourth or one-third of a grain, which usually produces some physiological effect, No amelioration may occur for some weeks, but the system must be kept slightly under the influence of the remedy. Valerianate of atropia may be used in place of belladonna in a commencing do.se of one-hundred-and-twentieth of a grain. Westphal, C.—On the Employment of Tracheotomy in Epilepsy. Annalen des Charite Krankenhauses, vol. ix. Jour, of Mental Sc., July, 1862. Westphal opposes the practice of tracheotomy as a curative proceeding in epilepsy. He contends that in most epileptics the signs of trachelismus— the venous fulness and redness of the countenance follow upon the con- vulsions, and are secondary to them, and at the close of the fit there is no sudden pallor of the previously suffused countenance. Westphal has seen a case of complete occlusion of the glottis by a wedge-shaped piece of food without any convulsions supervening. Read.—Case of Trephining In Epilepsy; Cure. Amer. Med. T., Brit. Med. J., Feb. 8th. J. T., a?t. 28, had received, two years before, a blow on the side of the head, depressing the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. This had occa- sioned frequent epileptic paroxsyms, embarrassment of speech, and increas- ing mental incoherence. Three months after the operation he had perfectly recovered. Russell, J., M.D.—Hereditary Epilepsy. Brit. Med. J., March 8th. Russell gives the history of a family consisting of the parents and nine children. The father is healthy, the mother is very nervous and excitable, and had an insane sister and an epileptic brother. Most of the children strongly resemble the mother. The eldest son has not had epilepsy, but suffers with nervous symptoms little removed from insanity. The eldest daughter is not epileptic, but is very unlike the others, and is highly stru- mous. Of the others, each has become epileptic on arriving at a certain age: the girls at eight or nine, the boys at thirteen or fourteen. A post- mortem examination in one case showed no disease of the brain or cord, the latter was, however, softer than natural, but equally so throughout. Bristowb, M.D.—Med. T. &*Gaz., Jan. nth. Records a case of epilepsy, in which the fits mostly occurred at night, but were also produced during the day, when he was made to move or get out of bed. The attacks increased in severity until Liq. pot. arscn. »iv ter die was given, when they immediately ceased for eight days. A relaspse occurred after he badbeen visited by some friends, and then he remained free for thirteen days to the date of the report.