Itl'.l'OItT OX I'KACTICAI. MKDIClXK. resolution takes place. If the delirium, however, persists after resolution, opium may he given, or, if the pupil he contracted, helladonna. (3) in adynamic patients, with quiet delirium (cachectic drunkards), with pale, col- lapsed face, and small weak pulse, stimulants and narcotics must he given without regard to the stage of the disease. Oppolzer's paper on the causes and treatment of dyspnoea in pulmonary inflammations has heen noticed in the Year-Book for i860, v. p. 219. JBrandes finds expectancy pro- duce no hetter results than venesection and antimony, and thinks no satisfactory conclusions can he drawn from cases massed together. Each must he studied by itself, as well as each epidemic. He speaks highly of acet. of lead in cases of " dissolute and anaemic blood crasis," and also in the pneumonia of young children. The result of Bourgeois' experi- ence is, that bleeding is wholly undesirable in pneumonia. Legendre also pursues an expectant treatment in "legitimate" pneumonia, but catarrhal calls for active interference. Hamon recommends an alkaline " medica- tion," consisting in the administration of three to four drachms of sod. carb. during each twenty-four hours; this method is useful in all inflammatory affections. Igu. Sauer, at Pesth, has employed sulphate of copper exten- sively, and deems it a specific for pneumonia depending on hyperinotic hlood-crasis. He gives half a grain, with a little opium, every hour. The fever ceases in five to ten days, and convalescence ensues in about the same time. Out of fifty-six patients, fifty-three recovered. In adynamic pneumonia, or of small extent, and when the intestinal canal is irritable, mercury is preferable. Comparing the efficacy of the principal curative means, he assigns to cupri sulph. a value of 6*3; to venesection, a value of 5-4, to tartar emetic a value of 21, to symptomatic treatment a value of 1-2. Sprinkhardt is also warm in his ^praises of this remedy; out of thirty-five cases treated with it he had only one death. Roth has used veratria internally, but in smaller and less frequent doses than those employed by Bitter, and with equally good results. Smoler and F. Nie- meyer agree in strongly recommending the local application of cold, as ice, to the chest. Valentini, believing in the tendency of pneumonia to get avcII spontaneously, finds a useful adjuvant hr chloroform inhalation, which he carries to the degree of anaesthesia, but not of narcosis. He administers it every two or three horns for several days. It calms the irritation and pain, tranquillises the nervous system, and reduces the fever. It is not suitable for children, the hysterical, or the epileptic. Barthez.—The Expectant Treatment of Pneumonia in Children. Gaz. des Hopit. Lond. Med. Rev., May 1862. Barthez deduces the following conclusions from therapeutic experiments tried upon 212 children. Left to itself pneumonia Begins to resolve from the sixth to the eighth day from its commencement, and above all, on the seventh day, in the majority of cases, or at least in one-half. In many children the period of augmentation is shorter, resolution commencing on the fourth or fifth day. A mild treatment does not appear to modify tins natural progress of the disease at all. Resolution once begun, usually goes on rapidly; a day sometimes is sufficient to complete the cure; ordinarily the period of decline occupies from two to six days. A very important