97 PSYCH1ATKIK. to be fed by force. After a dangerous attack of cholera she recovered completely from her insanity. Alluding to some important instances of spontaneous recovery, the reporters remark that they prove that tolerably well-marked organic changes in the brain may take place, which, never- theless, may subsequently disappear; for such long-continued disturbance of the imagination and of the understanding cannot be supposed to exist without simultaneous organic changes in the brain, which are, if they are only carefully looked for, constantly discovered on post-mortem examina- tion. In cases of grandiose mania, and cases of onanism, bodily labour is one of the most efficacious remedies. The reporters do not speak favour- ably of De Saulle's method of giving opium. In some few cases the expidsion of worms was followed by the speedy recovery of the patient. Albers.—On the Temperature of the External Surface, especially of the Head, in the Insane. Allg. Ztschr. f. Psychiat., xviii, p. 450, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 207. Albers found in numerous trials that the difference between the temples, behind the ear, and the neck, amounted on an average to 4°-5 F., that in the neck being the highest. A diminution of the difference between the temperature of the temples and of the ear is a sign of the increase of the temperature of the head. Imbeciles have the same temperature of the head as other insane, and it increases at periods of excitement. Albers.—On Parenchymatose Infarction of the Brain in Chronic and Acute Forms of Insanity. Virchow's Archiv, xxiii, p. 7, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 207. This condition is characterised by deposition of amorphous, granular, albuminous matter between the normal tissue elements, with irregular development of blood-vessels in the affected spots. The disease often extends itself over the whole organ, and frequently proves fatal by paralysing its function. The brain is then, especially in its white sub- stance, exceedingly tough, heavier than normal, the ventricles have dis- appeared, and are almost devoid of serum. The course of the disease is generally acute, the chronic form is produced by regression of the acute, and may return to the acute state for a time by relapses. The symptoms of the former are continuous headach with depression of spirits, increased irritability and great restlessness, normal or even slow jaulse. The absence of peripheric phenomena in the nervous system distinguishes infarction from inflammatory conditions. Albers distinguishes a scrofulous and a typhous kind of infarction. The first occurs in slightly-developed irritable scrofulous patients, and generally affects the whole cerebrum. It appears only in childhood and youth, and allows the intellectual development only to attain a certain degree, but disposes to cerebral irritations, and inflamma- tions of the cerebral membranes. In the years of development insanity sets 'n with monomaniacal character, yielding sometimes to antiscrofulous treatment. Typhous infarction occurs especially in cases attended with delirium and sudden sinking of the strength, which are apt to prove unexpectedly fatal. If recovery ensues, insanity commonly follows, or a 7