REPORT ON MIDWIFERY. spinal deformity appeared 5 this favoured the accuracy of the diagnosis 542 present at the time of birth; probably tbe defect of the lateral part of the sacrum is that part of the affection which is congenital. The author accepts Litzmannb explanation of the occurrence of the anchylosis, which is that it is due, as is also the peculiar shape of the pelvis in these cases, to the pressure upwards from the hip-joint on the affected side. Naegele's view was that the anchylosis is congenital and the primary evil; Simon-Thomas's opinion, which is opposed to this, is, however, so far correct. Breslatt.—Anew case of Spondylolisthesis of the Pelvis; Incomplete Delivery ; Death of Mother and Child. Mon. f. Geb., Dec, 1861. The subject of the case, a primipara, ast. 43, was admitted, April 18th, 1861, into the Lying-in Hospital, with a letter from her attendant, stating that the outlet of the pelvis was contracted in all its dimensions, and that the impending labour would probably be a difficult one. Labour had not set in. On examination no anomaly of the pelvis could be discovered; there was no sign of commencing labour ; labour set in the next night. Her answers indicated that pregnancy had advanced to the thirty-sixth week. Pelvic measurements were now made; the woman was four and a half Paris feet in height; extremities not deformed; she was muscular, bones large; the vertical column was affected with angular curvature in the lumbar region, the extent of the same being about 4" ; the spinous processes not distinctly felt; the sacrum unusually prominent; what appeared to be its superior spinous process, but which after death proved to be that of the last lumbar vertebra, was very prominent. There was no cicatrix in the skin covering the part. From the upper border of the pubic symphysis to the point of the most prominent spinous process (measured by Baudelocque's callipers) the distance was 6" 6"' (nearly seven inches English measurement). When the posterior limb was placed in the excavation above, the distance was 6". The finger introduced into the vagina encountered, without using any considerable effort, the posterior bony wall of the pelvic inlet, but it was doubtful whether this was the true promontory or a false one. Prom the sub-pubic ligament to the point felt by the finger measured 3" 6"' (3f inches English). By passing in the second finger it was ascertained that the bony point felt posteriorly formed a sort of roof- like projection over the part of the sacrum immediately below it. The impression thus conveyed was that the case was one of exostosis of the pelvic inlet. The general result of the examination was that the con- jugate diameter was narrowed, measuring not quite 3" (about 3^ inches English), that is, subtracting from the external measurement 3$" and from the internal measurement 8"'; and that even supposing the foetus to be immature, considerable difficulty was to be expected in the delivery. As regards the kind of deformity present, the diagnosis lay between rachitis, exostosis, and spondylolisthesis; the probable diagnosis was in favour of the latter, the result of the external as well as internal ex- amination allowing of this view of the case. The patient had had a severe strain while carrying a burden"at the age of seventeen or eighteen; this was followed by severe pain in the back, consequent on which the