53 GENERAL SYSTEM. instance, with a dry gangrenous slough. In one case, where the disease proved fatal, the spleen was not found notably diseased. In^several other patients who recovered there was no swelling of the spleen. In all these there were general symptoms, but not of a perilous Icind. From the commencement of the disease to the appearance of the characteristic black spot there elapsed as a rule one or two days ; the disease lasted in general five to six weeks. Gausten thinks the poison is not nearly so dangerous as it has been stated. Persons employed about the diseased cattle do not seem very liable to sutler. The flesh of diseased animals when boiled is eaten with impunity, and dogs eat it even raw without being infected. Harper, R.—Lancet, Aug. 30th. He records a case of malignant pustule affecting the perns, evidently in- duced by the contact of the hands, the man having been engaged in dressing diseased sheep. He recovered under a supporting and stimulating plan of treatment, but was seriously ill for several weeks. Paget.—Med. T. and Gaz., Aug. 23rd. He records a case of malignant pustule proving fatal in six days with acute carbuncular inflammation of the face and pya?mia. Basham, W. R.—Brit. Med. J., Oct. 1 ith. He records a case of animal-poisoning, probably farcy. The body was covered with pustules, the patient had vomiting, some diarrhoea, and pus- tules all over the body. He died exhausted after about fifteen days'illness. There was no history of exposure to the contagion of glanders. Zimmermann, G.—Four Cases of Glanders-poisoning from Volatile Conta- gion, forming also a Contribution to our knowledge of the course of Inflammatory Febrile Processes. Virchow's Archiv. vol. xxiii, p. 209. The veterinary surgeon B. and a cuirassier Z. made a post-mortem exami- nation of a glandered horse. Fourteen days after this B. began to ail with symptoms, as of catarrh, depression, weariness, frequent shivering alternating with heat, headach, very hot flushed face, short breath, loss of appetite and constipation. Three or four weeks later Z. was taken with sniveling and great oppression at the chest. Another cuirassier, D., who had been in Z.'s room and passed through B.'s, fell ill about three weeks later with symptoms of broncho-pneumo-typhus. A third cuirassier, K. had been admitted into the hospital for pneumonia, and four weeks after (having been discharged in the interval) sickened again with severe febrile disorder. He had been in con- tact with B. and Z. while in the hospital. La B. there was no nasal affection from the sixteenth to the forty-third day of the disease, lumps of bloody toiitfh mucus were excreted from the swollen and dark red mucous surface. In Z. the nasal membrane was swollen and red, andepistaxis occurred. LiD. and K. there was no nasal affection. In all there was well-marked broncho- pneumonia. In B. there was considerable erysipelatous eruption on the face, with roseolous spots on the trunk, and a sore formed on the sacrum. Z. had the erysipelatous inflammation of the face, and the roseola, and D. the same. The latter, however, had several subcutanous abscesses and bed-sores. InB. the