183 FEVER ACCOMPANYING SURGICAL AFFECTIONS. because of them. All such cases must be excluded from general tables of mortality after operations and from all studies of their general dangers and general management. And among the deaths some, again, must be separated, as being, in a measure, accidental. Such are the deaths from typhus, scarlet fever, scurvy, and other diseases, that fall, as it were, casually on those who have been operated on. Deaths from these causes are not deaths from the effects of operations. They do not justly, or should not without explana- tion, be put to their discredit. Only, in excluding them, we must deal very honestly, and put with them none to which the operation in any measure ministered. Among the deaths and dangers really due to operations we have, first, those from shock. If we include under this heading only those in which patients die without ever rallying from the depression into which the operation casts them, they are very rare. Mr. Paget has scarcely seen one, and his impression is that they are made rarer than they used to be, both by the use of anaesthetics and by the greater liberality of diet and the more natural manner in which patients are treated previous to opera- tions ; so that they come to face the difficulty, not with the least, but with the most, strength that we can give them. Great energy of treatment during shock may do great mischief. Especially may the profuse and rapid giving of food and stimulants be very injurious, by producing or aggravating sickness, one of the worst complications that can be added to the shock, making it, by exhaustion, newly perilous. Other sources of danger and of death are those from chloroform-sickness, from deficient or disorderly reaction, from acute local inflammation, from primary and from recurrent hemorrhage ; these might form, in our study of cases or in our tabulation of their results, a separate group, as being due to the more or less of natural or almost inevitable processes. In this they are essentially different from the next class of cases, where the peril comes from events that have more of the nature of diseases, that are more preventible, and that seem to have their origin, for the most part, in definite and specific morbid changes in the blood. Such are the most frequent cases of phlebitis and of inflamed lymphatics, all the forms and degrees of erysipelas, of pycemia, putrid infection, of tetanus, and some others. FEVER ACCOMPANYING SURGICAL AFFECTIONS. The following researches on traumatic fever and other complications of wounds (published by Dr. Th. Billroth in Langenbeck's 'Archivf. Klin.Chi- rurgie,' B. ii, and also, separately, Berlin, Hirschwald) appear to us most important. We have, accordingly, not hesitated to devote a considerable space to their consideration. We may remark, that in Germany, the writings of Zrmmcrmann, Traube, Biirensprung, and. especially Wunderlich, had called general attention to the use of the thermometer in febrile complaints. There is a short but good account of the results in Uhle and Wagner, ' Handbook of General Pathology' (Leipz., 1862), and an abstract of an interesting paper in the 'Medical Times and Gazette' (1861, vol. ii,