502 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. occurred in the practice of the hospital, nnd appeared to afford a favor- able opportunity for the discussion of this important question of public hygiene:—A young woman, set. 18, was admitted, suffering from catarrh of the cervix uteri. In consequence of the existence of smallpox in the hospital at the time, she was vaccinated from a perfectly healthy child, and with lymph of which the source was unexceptionable. Four other children were vaccinated at the same time, none of whom exhibited any- thing abnormal. In the woman the punctures rose the next day, and were surrounded by a slight inflammatory areola, which in a short time disappeared. She then left the hospital, but returned on the twenty-first day after the vaccination, stating that the punctures on one arm had taken. On examination two pustules of ecthyma were observed. In fifteen days more it was found that these pustules had become patches of rupia (each having an indurated base), which were accompanied with axillary adenitis and a roseolous rash. In this case, as in that of the out- break among the children vaccinated at Rivalta, Ricord, while admitting a coincidence between the appearance of syphilis and that of cowpox, denies the existence of any causal relation between them. "In neither instance," he maiutains, "is it possible to determine what is the true door of entrance " of the syphilitic poison, but there need be no appre- hension of the transmission of syphilis by vaccination, until some more positive facts are recorded in its favour. Cerise, Pacciitotti.—Further information on the Cases of Syjihilitic Infection by Vaccination at Rivalta. ' L'Union, February 8th, p. 322, and April 3rd, p. 19. During the last year Pacchiotti has continued his local inquiries into the facts connected with the outbreak of syphilis at Rivalta. In the first of the papers above referred to he brings forward additional grounds for the conclusion that the forty-six children were really affected with syphilis, and that the infection was actually communicated by vaccination. With this view he recapitulates in detail the characteristic symptoms and de- velopment of the disease as observed and previously recorded by himself, and refers to the marked effect of an anti-syphilitic treatment (see ' Year Book,' 1861, p. 470). As additional evidence, he relates that, among forty-six mothers or nurses of infected children no less than twenty, who were perfectly healthy at the period of the first vaccination (October 7th), were, on the 8th of February, affected with secondary symptoms. He further records that, in order to ascertain whether or not the infection of syphilis had in any degree supplanted that of vaccination, five of the children infected, who were suffering at the time from syphilitic symptoms, were re-vaccinated with the utmost care. The results were all negative, showing the vaccine virus had not been deprived of its efficacy by being introduced into the system along with that of syphilis. As regards the surmise of M. Ricord, that in the Rivalta cases the concurrence of vac- cination with syphilis was merely accidental, the author thinks that it is conclusively negatived by the fact that in two batches of children, vac- cinated simultaneously at an interval of ten days (all of the first batch being vaccinated from one arm, and one of them yielding lymph for the