436 REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. lie finds to be much the most convenient and effectual. A drachm of strong liquor ammonia) is poured into a saucer, in which is placed a watch-glass containing about half as much concentrated hydrochloric acid. By this method sal ammoniac fumes are diffused along with those of ammonia, the presence of which last are thought rather to aid than interfere with the beneficial action of the salt as an expectorant. In acute bronchitis the sal ammoniac may be advantageously inhaled along with the vapour of warm water. Martius.—On the Therapeutic Use of Saltpetre-paper. Memorab., vol. vii, part 2, 1862. According to Martius, the vapour produced by the burning of the charta nitrata is alkaline, has a violet colour and soapy taste. In 100 volumes of air in which the paper had been burnt he found 527 volumes of carbonic acid gas, 41*1 of nitrogen, 3-9 of carbonic oxide, ra of hydrogen, and *5 of oxygen. He attributes the therapeutical action observed, not to any of these gases, but to the " finely divided potash and carbonate of potash" suspended in the fumes. Zinc. Bartels.—On the Therapeutical Application of Acetate of Zinc. Pr. Ver. Ztg., vol. iv, parts 3 and 4. Schmidt, vol. 114, p. 19. Holding with Bademacher, that the action of zinc is analogous to that of opium in every respect excepting in its not affecting the vascular system, the author has employed the acetate in all cerebral affections in which the brain is over-excited without the existence of hyperemia, as, for example, in sleeplessness, mental anxiety or over-exertion, de- lirium nervosum, traumaticum and ebriosum, and in the delirium of typhus and the acute exanthemata. He gives two grains every two hours. Iron. PoKROWSKY.—Researches on the action of the Preparations of Iron. Virch., vol. xxii, p. 476. The author had the opportunity of investigating the action of chaly- beate preparations on the metamorphosis of tissue in numerous patients under treatment in the Hospital at St. Petersburg. With this view he determined daily in each case the temperature of the body, the quantity of food, of excrement, and of urine, of which last the specific gravity, chlorides, and urea, were also investigated. Prom these experiments the author deduced the following results:—During the administration of preparations of iron the temperature of the body rises. This ele- vation occasionally tabes place very shortly (in one case within five hours) after the commencement of the treatment. It is observable as well in cases in which the temperature is abnormally depressed as in others. After the maximum effect of any given dose has been attamed, successive augmentations of temperature may be produced by successive additions to the quantity given, by which means in one case a rise of i° C. was obtained. Several days after the increase of temperature, it is found that the pulse increases in frequency. Pari passu with the increase of temperature, the daily excretion of urea is augmented, but it is not until some days later that the body gains weight, the pulse