26 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. when placed in a medium not warmer than its own body, does not re- gain its normal temperature of about -f- 39° (This fact has been already observed by Bernard.) The animals,"when taken out of the cool- ing apparatus, are unable to sustain themselves on their feet. They lie quiet on their side, and do not make any locomotory movements; but they exhibit phenomena of voluntary motion, reflex motion, and sensibility. The heart beats only from 16 to 20 times in the minute. In some cases respiration is so slight that no movement of the thorax can be seen; in others it is very hurried and superficial. The eyes of the animal are wide open. The lowest temperature at which Walther still observed motion, sensibility, reflex action, and will, was + 90 C. Animals kept at a tem- perature of + 200 die after some time, and animals which have been previously cooled to + 180, do not recover when artificially warmed to + 290 and then left to themselves. Muscular contraction may produce an increase of the normal temperature of a rabbit of from 2° to 4° but no increase of temperature takes place when the animal has been cooled to + 200. In rabbits which have died, or which have been killed, in a state of refrigeration, the lungs were always found much congested and oedema- tous; thin serum was also present in the bronchial tubes. The same appearances were also found in animals which, after having recovered their normal temperature, nevertheless died. In these, serum was also contained in the pleural cavities. Refrigerated animals can be made to regain their normal temperature in two different ways:—First, by warming them artificially, till their temperature has got normal; this takes from two to three hours in a medium of 400. Secondly, the normal tempera- ture can be restored by means of artificial respiration. A rabbit cooled to + 18°, and placed in air of + io°or 120, will recover its warmth under the influence of artificial respiration. Even in this colder atmosphere Walther thinks that reanimation of persons, seemingly dead from the influence of cold, ought not to be effected by slow warming as is the usual practice, but by a more rapid process. Some' animals which have reco- vered their normal temperature after refrigeration are in the first few days in a state of fever, their temperature being 420. Some also suffer from violent catarrh of the lungs, the nose, and the eyes. URINE. Kaupp, W.—Contributions to the TTro-physiology within the Bladder. Tubingen, i860 ; and Canst. Jahresb. fur 1861, vol. i, p. 135. Herrmann, M.—On the Influence of the Pressure of the Blood upon the Secretion of Urine. Wiener Sitzungsberichte,. 1861, xlv, P-3I7- Kaupp proposed to himself the following question :—Are any constituents of the urine absorbed during its stay in the bladder ? To answer this, he compared urine which had been passed hourly for twelve hours with such as had been passed only once at the end of twelve hours. He found, after several trials, that the average surplus in favour of the former amounted to 87-3 cub. cent. Urine 0-933 grmm. Urea > 0-786 gram. Chloride of sodium 0-173 „ Phosphoric: acid 0-061 „ Sulphuric acid 2-116 „ Firm constituents