SUDDEN AND VIOLENT DEATHS. 477 but more frequently the results of the injuries are sufficiently obvious. The characters of the lesions to be looked for are illustrated by seven cases, recorded in great detail, of which the following were the leading features :—In Case i there was an irregular but minute fracture of the right parietal bone, with depression and arachnoid haemorrhage. From the form of the fracture and the characters of the depression, the author concluded that it was due to a blow inflicted with a soft instrument, of irregular shape ; it could not have been produced by a fall, for if so it would have been at the vertex, and would have assumed a longitudinal position, and there would have been no depression. In all the other cases the lesions were similar, death being occasioned by fracture of the parietal bones and haemorrhage on the surface or in the substance of the brain. Infanticide by privation of air is perpetrated by one of three methods— either by occlusion of the mouth and nostrils with the hands or with some article of clothing or other substance capable of being applied to those openings (suffocation), by strangulation, or by submersion. In cases of suffocation it is often impossible, from the post-mortem appearances, to determine the nature of the instrument used. There are often no ex- ternal marks of violence, no foreign bodies or frothy mucus in the air- passages ; the only signs are fulness of the cerebral veins and sinuses and congestion of the lungs and other internal organs, appearances indicative that death has occurred by asphyxia. Of this variety of infanticide the author gives ten instances. In the first case infanticide was committed by stopping the mouth and nostrils. The victim was mature ; the thorax was expanded, the diaphragm depressed; the larynx and bronchial tubes contained frothy mucus ; the lungs were crepitant, of a rose colour, and weighed i-57th of the weight of the whole body. The cutaneous blood- vessels of the head, face, and of the cerebral membranes, were engorged with blood ; there was an effusion of blood at the base of the brain, and the whole of the venous system of the chest and abdomen was much con- gested. From these appearances it was concluded that the child had not died either of wound or haemorrhage, and that suffocation was the sole cause of death. In the fourth case death was inflicted by the application of the hands to the mouth and nostrils or to the front of the neck. The internal appearances were similar. There were no traces of pressure about the neck or mouth ; the mode of suffocation was known only from the admissions of the accused. So also in most of the other cases ; but in the ninth the skin around the mouth, the nose, and the middle of the face, was pressed in, red, and ecchymosed, and on making incisions, "infiltrated blood" was found in the cellular tissue. In the tenth the traces were very indistinct. In the eleventh both lips were livid and swollen, the lower exhibiting a dark patch of ecchymosis. The preceding case's, remarks M. Toulmouche, are of value as showing the perfect uniformity and analogy of the internal lesions in cases of death by asphyxia. He is of opinion that if there be no foreign bodies in the fauces or nares, no mark of a ligature, and no "white or slightly coloured frothy foam" in the air-passages, these lesions afford sufficient ground for con- cluding that death has taken place by suffocation, and states that of the whole number of cases which have come under his observation, in which it