DISEASES OF WOMEN. 383 staining her linen with large, yellow spots, for three weeks, -was ohliged then to take to her hed from severe pain in the left iliac region. There •was pain of very acute character on pressure over the left ovary; the diagnosis formed was that subacute metritis had suddenly extended along the Fallopian tube and reached the ovary. The patient had been exposed to cold at night, and this was supposed to account for it. It waa then found that the husband was suffering from gonorrhoea; two days later the discharge had diminished; counter-irritation and astrin- gent injections effected a cure in three weeks. The author considers this was a case of gonorrhceal orchitis. In the second case the patient had been suffering for three weeks from a communicated discharge of thick, yellow character. Three days previously she began to have pain over the left ovary, which pain had increased. The pain was very severe. [Fomentations and poidtices were ordered, warm-water injec- tions, rest, and counter-irritation, and subsequently astringent injections. The discharge began to diminish in three weeks, the pain earlier. No induration could be subsequently felt about the ovary. In these cases the pain, though usually felt in the region of the ovary, may extend to the neighbouring parts, constituting a kind of severe rheumatism, as in a third case related. The author remarks that in none of these cases was the uneasiness situated in the inguinal region. It is well known that, as a rule, orchitis occurs towards the decline of the gonorrhceal discharge, whereas in these cases the ovary became affected at the acutest point of the disease; this would seem to militate against the analogy here presumed to exist. Another difference is absence of effusion, and consequent hard deposit, such as is observed after orchitis. Tatlok, John.—Gonorrhceal Ovaritis.—Lancet, July 12th, 1862. Two cases are related fortifying the views expressed by M. de Meric on this subject. SiiiPSON, Dr. Alex. E.—Ovarian Cyst containing Hair. Ed. Med. Journ., May, 1862. The patient in this case, set. 40, unmarried, had a growth, chiefly in the left side of the abdomen, of several years' duration. She was tapped, and a greenish-yellow fluid escaped, like the contents of a large abscess; but this fluid consolidated into a mass like butter soon after. At the end of the operation came away a single red hair. Two months later a second tapping was performed, and iodine injected. On one part of the cyst-wall a hard spot was felt by the sound. Death took place six weeks later. The ovarian cyst had a mass of tangled hair, like that on the pubes of the patient, within it. At one spot the wall of the cyst was calcareous ; at another was a skin-like patch of follicles, from which grew long hairs; the ovarian cyst was very intimately adherent to the uterus, to the omentum, and also to the intestines. Gillespie, Dr.—Cystic Tumour of the Ovary containing Hairs Ed Med. Journ., May, 1862. A patient, considerably emaciated, who had been ailing for a few days with slight diarrhoea, occasional vomiting, and pains in the belly became suddenly affected with aggravations of these symptoms, espe-