REPORT ON SURGERY. 220 audio the third case the reduction of a fracture, which was attended witli great displacement, had the desired effect ('Med. Cent. Zeit.,' 1862, No. 34). Rev. S. Haughton was induced to use nicotine in this disease, from the fact that nicotine and strychnia appear to counteract one another; he relates ('Dub. Quart. Jour.,' xxxiv, p. 172) two cases of traumatic and one of idiopathic tetanus thus treated. In the first case the patient was nearly moribund when the medicine was given ; it had, however, the effect of causing—1, immediate relaxation of the spasm of the muscles of expression, of respiration, and of deglutition ; 2, cessation of delirium, and feeling of relief from agonising pain ; 3, lowering of the pulse from 130 to 88 per minute. This case received three doses at intervals of two hours, each dose consisting of one drop of nicotine (gr. o-6). The second was the case of idiopathic tetanus; it recovered; the dose was from a half to two thirds of a drop, and it was repeated several times in the day ; he took in eleven days 44 drops, or gr. 26*4 ; the effects noticed in this case were—1, immediate relaxation of the muscles of the abdomen, back, and diaphragm ; 2, cessation of delirium ; 3, a slight tendency to increased circulation, to the extent of ten beats per minute ; 4, profuse sweating, which exhaled an intolerable odour of snuff, not of tobacco; 5, a tendency to deep sleep ; it failed to control quickly the adductor mus- cles supplied by the obturator nerve ; even when the hamstring muscles gave way, the adductors refused. The third case recovered ; the nicotine was given, in doses of 1, 2, and n\ drops, in sherry and water, according to the urgency of the tetanic spasms. After the administration of the dose, in three minutes the spasm was gone and the muscles relaxed, and profuse sweating, accompanied by a smell of snuff, set in. During the four days of treatment with this medicine the patient received, by the mouth and rectum, altogether 54 drops = 31\ grains; and the physio- logical effects appeared to be the same whichever way the alkaloid was exhibited. Mr. Haughton remarks that nicotine should be employed as such, and not in infusion of tobacco leaves, in which its properties are masked by the action of two or more vegetable oils, the operation of which on the nervous system is unknown. HYDROPHOBIA. In a case published ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862,1, 142) by Dr. Cun- ningham, there was the peculiar bark, resembling that of a dog, the existence of which has been denied by some writers ; the intellect was clear till the patient expired. Another case, under Dr. Clark (' Amer. Med. Times,' 1862, i, 319), was characterised by the early occurrence and little'intensity of the symptoms, and by the rapidity with which death took place. M. Bergeron records ('Arch. Gen.,' 1862, i, 137, 317, 551) a most interesting case, occurring in a lad aged twelve and a half years, after the unusually long incubation of five and a half months, which was treated unsuccessfully with subcutaneous injections of atropine; he re- commends further trials with subcutaneous injections, not only of atropine, but also of morphia, digitalis, or curare. M. Boudin rejects spontaneous rabies and also the influence of unsatisfied sexual desires ( Arcn. ben., i8<5i, ii, 747). M. Renault (ib., 1862, i, 755) states that from 1845 t0