1 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. BY EDMUND MONTGOMERY, M.D., M.E.C.P., DJi.UOXSTHATOK OF MOEBID ANATOMY AKD CUHATOE OF THE MUSEUM AT ST. THOMAS'S HOSPITAL. GENERAL PHYSIOLOGY. CELLS, ELEMENTARY ORGANISMS, AND CORPUSCLES. Schultze, M.—On Muscle-corpuscles, and on what is to be understood by a Cell. Archiv fur Anatomie, Physiologie, &c, 1861, p. 1. Reichert, C. B.—The pleated Bing surrotmding the first two segments of the cleaving Yelk in the Frog's Egg, and its significance in regard to the Cell-theory. Archiv fur Anatomie, Physiologie, &c., 1861, p. 133. Hensen.—Researches on the Physiology of Blood-corpuscles and on their Cellular Nature. Siebold u. Kollilcer's Zeitschr., vol. ii, p. 253. Bruecke, E.—The Elementary Organisms. Moleschott's Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre, vol. viii, part 5. Boettcher, A. — On the Formation of the Bed Blood-corpuscles. Vir- chow's Archiv, vol. xxiv, p. 606, 1862. Robin, Ch.—On the production of Blastodermic Cellules, tvithout cleaving of the Yelk, in some Articulates. Comptes Rendus, Jan. 20th, 1862. However widely animal tissues appear to differ from each other in their ultimate structure, they are, nevertheless, at an early stage of their deve- lopment, one and all composed of essentially the same organic units. Thus may be expressed the leading idea of Schwann, and his great work in all its parts is an exposition of this idea. It was a natural consequence of this view that he himself, and many others after him, endeavoured to define with the utmost precision the typical nature of those organic elements to which the name cell had been given. It became soon an accepted dogma in physiology that a full-grown animal- or vegetable-cell was a minute vesicle, enclosing within its membrane, besides fluid con- tents, a peculiar round or oval body, called the nucleus, in which was seen another very small globule, the nucleolus. An immense amount of labour has been bestowed on the task of reducing all the apparent complexity in organic nature to this simple standard. Schwann himself seems to have met with the greatest difficulty in demonstrating the cell-membrane in all instances in which cells presented themselves to him. He enumerates five different reasons why the membrane is not always satisfactorily seen.