L21J ItHl'ORT ON l'K.-VCTICAIi MKDICINK. of the air-cells. According to Nat. Gluillot, inhalation of carbon has a beneficial effect on pulmonary tuberculosis, as in four-fifths of all old persons who had melanotic lungs he found cretified tubercle with surround- ing carbonaceous deposit; and when the tuberculous disorder recurred it was at parts of the lungs most remote from the carbon deposits. The course of the disease, according to Villaret, may be divided into two periods, the first, extending to the formation of caverns, may be very long, the second, terminating with death, is often very short, and never exceeds six months. Dyspnoea, resulting from imperfect hsematosis, is the earliest sign, and is attended with anasmia, debility, emaciation, giddiness. The physical signs are at first obscure, afterwards more evident, as dulness at the apices, loss of elasticity, weak and imperfect breathing, bronchophony. Chronic bronchial catarrh with uncoloured mucous expectoration is extremely common in older persons. The occurrence constantly of black sputa is a certain sign that ulceration has commenced, and physical examination now discovers the presence of caverns. Dyspnoea and emaciation increase, the face becomes livid, suffocative paroxysms occur, and death takes place suddenly. Prophylaxis is evidently much more important than treatment. The workmen should not continue their employment above ten years, and should quit as soon as any dyspnoea is perceived. Maurice.—On Melanidie of the Lungs observed in Colliers. Gaz. Medic. Lond. Med. Eev., March. Maurice states that the melanic appearance is solely produced by inhaling carbonaceous particles, and that the common black discoloration of the lungs proceeds from the same cause. In healthy persons no injurious consequences ensue for a long time, but in the tubercular subjects they appear much earlier and more rapidly. Abandonment of the occupa- tion is essential. Traube.—On Putrid Bronchitis. Deutsche Khmk, 50, 52, 1861; 1—5, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 306. The sputa which occur in this disease are often observed also in bron- chiektasis and pulmonary gangrene, but are not necessarily present in either. They are copious, offensive, and consist of crumbling, greyish- yellow masses floating in tenacious muco-purulent liquid. At first they seem to form white plugs occupying the bronchi, and made up chiefly of pus globules and round heaps of detritus; subsequently the plugs assume a dirty-grey colour, and show particles of detritus mingled with large oil drops lying in a purulent mass ; still later the detritus predominates, and short, fine, needle-like crystals are seen together with the oil drops ; and, lastly, the detritus contains larger oil drops and long thick needles united in groups. The disease may occur hi a diffuse, subacute, or m a more chronic and limited form. It may cause destruction of the lung tissue either by gangrene, or by suppuration inducing necrosis. The disease generally supervenes on chronic bronchitis, but may follow phthisis; it is sometimes associated with pneumonia. Traube thinks that decomposition of the sputa ensues more readily according as the sputa are more purulent.