FUNCTIONS AND SECRETIONS 01' THE LIVER. 9 the glyco-cbolate and tauro-cholabe of soda, which do not pre-exist in the blood, subserve a useful purpose in the economy and are not discharged from it, are manufactured in the liver and peculiar to the bile, do not accumulate in the blood when the function of the liver is interfered with, and are, in short, products of secretion. But it has another function con- nected with depuration, which is dependent on the presence of choles- tearine, which is an excretion. The flow of the bile is remittent, being much increased during the digestive act, but produced during the intervals of digestion for the purpose of separating the cholestearine from the blood, which is constantly receiving it. 5. The ordinary normal faeces do not contain cholestearine, but con- tain stercorine (formerly called seroline, from its being supposed to exist only in the serum of the blood), produced by a transformation of the cholestearine of the bile during the digestive act. 6. The change of cholestearine into stercorine does not take place when digestion is arrested or before this process commences, consequently stercorine is not found in the meconium or in the faeces of hibernating animals during their torpid condition. These matters contain cholestea- rine in large abundance, which also sometimes appears in the fasces of animals after a prolonged fast. Stercorine is the form in which choles- tearine is discharged from the body. 7. The difference between the two varieties of jaundice with which we are familiar, the one characterised only by yellowness of the skin aud comparatively innocuous, the other attended with very grave symptoms and almost invariably fatal, is dependent upon the obstruction of the bile in the one case and its suppression in the other. In the first instance the bile is confined in the excretory passages and its colouring matter is absorbed, while in the other the cholestearine is retained in the blood and acts as a poison. 8. There is a condition of the blood dependent upon the accumulation of cholestearine which I have called cliolestearcemia. This only occurs when there is structural change in the liver, which incapacitates it from per- forming its excretory functions. It is characterised by symptoms of a grave character, referable to the brain, and dependent upon the poisonous effects of the retained cholestearine on this organ. It occurs with or without jaundice. 9. Cholestearaemia does not occur in every instance of structural disease of the liver. Enough of the liver must be destroyed to prevent the due elimination of the cholestearine. In cases in which the organ is but moderately affected the sound portion is able of performing the elminative functions of the whole. 10. In cases of simple jaundice, when the faeces are decolorised and the bile is entirely shut off from the intestine, stercorine is not found in the evacuat.ons; but in cases of jaundice with cholestearamia the stercorine may be found, though always very much diminished in quantity, showing that there is an insufficiency in the separation of the cholestearine from the blood, though its excretion is not entirely suspended. After deith 1-mf a small quantity of bile is found in the gall-bladder. . Hitter's researches were made on a dog of i3± kilogrammes in weight.