SECRETORY SYSTEM. 159 abdominal portion of the sympathetic be affected, supplying the capsules, supra-renal disease and bronzed skin will coexist; if the capsules are diseased from other causes there will be no bronze skin ; and if the bronzed skin is occasioned by the atrophy of other portions of the sympa- thetic, there need be no supra-renal disease. Wilks, S., M.D.—On Disease of the Supra-Renal Capsules, or Morbus Addisonii. Guy's Hosp. Eeports, vol. viii. Wilks contends for the correctness of Addison's views, with the modifi- cation that discoloration of the surface may occasionally be absent, and that, when present, it is characterized by a general change of hue over the whole body, and also that the morbid change in the capsules is of a peculiar character. If asthenia without any known cause, and such discoloration as has been indicated have existed for any period, disease of the capsules may be very safely predicated. A series of twenty-five cases are given, observed by Wilks or by others; in only one of which was there a total absence of pigmentation of the sldn. In four others the discoloration did not attract notice. Of seventeen cases of later date, where the skin was very dark, a correct diagnosis was made in all but one. The conclusion drawn from vivisections, that the supra-renal capsules are not essential to life, is confirmed by cases of disease, in which the patients have been able to work up to near the time of death, although the organs in question must have been destroyed for a long period. Epigastric pain passing to between the shoulders was not mentioned by Addison, but has been observed in several cases. In one or two cases an odour Idee that exhaled from a negro's skin has been noticed. The disease seems to affect the young more particularly; the average of the ages recorded is thirty years. Of the twenty-five cases, nineteen were males, and six females. In most of the cases there was no evidence whatever of the existence of tubercle in the lungs, and in a few only a little scattered deposit at the apices. In general tuberculosis, no such affection of the capsides has been found as occurs in Addison's disease. In three of Wilks' cases there was caries of the spine, to which he thinks the capsule-disease was secondary. Brunner's, and the solitary glands, have often been found enlarged. Traube.—On so-called Uravmic Attacks. Med. Centr. Ztg. xxx, 103, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 308. Traube ascribes these attacks to cerebral anaemia and oedema. The latter results from the drain of albumen lessening the density of the liquor sanguinis, which thus becomes more prone to transude, especially when the tension of the arteries is increased by hypertrophy of the heart. He states that the attacks do not occur when the heart is not hypertrophied ; that they are always preceded by ana?mia and pallor, and often by diminu- tion of the quantity of urine. In fatal cases the brain is always found anajmic and (Edematous, and often there are effusions of blood in it or its membranes. Kussmaul's and Tenner's experiments prove that convulsions and coma may result from cerebral anaemia. Saturnine intoxication pro- duces attacks identical with the urtemic, and in these also the brain is found swollen and redematous.