355 OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. and that air may possibly be introduced. In ten cases the means em- ployed to induce labour was the introduction of a gum-elastic catheter into the uterus. In six of these cases the vaginal douche had been previously employed. In eight cases the interval which elapsed between the introduction of the catheter and the first pains was five minutes to twelve hours. In five of the cases, the pains not being satisfactory during this interval, a second, larger catheter was also introduced. The birth of the children took place in twelve to fifty-two hours ; six were born alive; one mother died of metritis. Puncture of the membranes was employed in the two cases when hydramnios was present; both had a favorable result for the mother. The general result arrived at is that the best time for the operation is the thirty-fourth or thirty-fifth week, and that the best method consists in the use of the vaginal douche of warm water, this being followed by catheterization of the uterus. Valenta.— On Catheterization of the Uterus. Wien. Med. Halle, 1861, Nos. 48 and 50. The author relates four cases in which this operation was employed to induce or hasten labour (see 'Tear Book' for 1861, p. 354, for allusion to ten previous cases). Aleoed, Bichaed.—Induction of Premature Labour by Ergot of Bye and Puncturing the Membranes. Lond. Med. Eev., May, 1862. The author's plan is to give ergot first, and, having excited labour thereby, to leave off the ergot and puncture the membranes. This plan is, he holds, much safer than some recently devised methods, and is the best when our object is not to bring on labour rapidly. Illustrative cases are related. Baenes, Dr. Bobebt.—On the JVeiv Method of inducing Premature Labour at a predetermined hour. Ed. Med. Journ., July, 1862. The uncertainty as to the time occupied is a serious objection to the older methods of inducing premature labour. The suspense and loss of strength are further objections. Moreover, the attendant may be absent at the time when most required, and mother and child thus exposed to unnecessary danger. The time of the medical attendant is fully occu- pied, for while the labour is going on he is unable to fulfil other engage- ments. The operation proposed by the author relieves from this uncertainty and these inconveniences. Labour may be induced at will, and terminated, if desired, at an appointed hour. The operation is brought within the control of the operator; the method pursued is by no means uniformly simple, but implies a combination of resources. The primary point consists in the artificial dilatation of the cervix uteri by the use of specially constructed caoutchouc bags distended with water. [These bags are of a fiddle shape, having, when distended, a narrower, cylindrical, central portion, dilating at either end into a bulging or mushroom-like expansion. The object of this is to prevent the bag from slipping forwards into the uterus or backwards into the vagina. The bag is prolonged into a long, narrow tube, with a stop-cock at the end, to keep in the water when injected ; the injecting medium is the ordinary Higginson's syringe. Three bags of different Bizcs are sufii-