6 KEPOB.T ON rilYPTOLOOY. Previous researches of Meissner on the digestion of albuminous sub- stances wcro reported in tbo 'Year Book' for i860, p. 8^, and in that for 1861, p. 79. It was there shown that certain albuminates divide, under the action of digesting fluids, into three or four albuminous sub- stances, which aro nearly related to each other. Thus albumen and syntonin were found to yield peptone, parapeptone, and metapeptone; caseine, tho above substances, and dyspeptone in addition. The ex- periments reported upon in the present paper were performed with the assistance of Buettner, and fibrine was the albuminate chosen for investi- gation. The blood of oxen and pigs, as it came from the blood-vessels of the animal, was at once stirred, and well washed in a continuous stream of water. The fibrine was then cut under water into very small pieces. These were again well washed, and then placed in a cup with an aqueous solution of ammonia, so weak as not to produce swelling of the ilakes. The next day the fibrine was finally washed and strained. The sub- stance thus obtained was much purer than when water only is used. If, of two equal portions of this fibrine, the one is digested at a tempe- rature of 400 C. with a quantity of hydrochloric acid, amounting to •2 per cent., and the other portion is treated in the same manner, but with the addition of a few cubic centimetres of a concentrated solution of pepsine, it will be found that, after twelve hours, the fluid which contained hydrochloric acid only has scarcely dissolved a particle of fibrine, whilst the other, which contained pepsine as well, has dissolved the entire quantity. The solution of fibrine thus obtained is of a brown coloui", and a jelly-like substance is seen suspended in it, which, on being treated with alcohol and ether, changes into a friable powder. This powder exhibits the same properties as the dyspeptone of caseine. By exactly neutralizing the brown filtered fluid, after it has cooled, a yellowish, flaky precipi- tate is formed, which is the parapeptone of the fibrine. The neutral, colour- less fluid, which then passes through the filter, forms, on the addition of about "04 per cent, of a concentrated acid, a white precipitate, the metapeptone of fibrine. The remaining fluid holds pure peptone in solution. Van Biervliet performed experiments with pure saliva, obtained from the parotid gland of a man aged fiffcy-two, who had a fistula of the Ste- nonian duct. He found that saliva thus procured was possessed of the property of transforming starch into sugar in quite as marked a degree as mixed saliva. In a temperature equalling that of the blood the change was effected in a few seconds. The process was somewhat retarded by an admixture of gastric juice in moderate quantity, but was not entirely stopped until the quantity of the added juice exceeded at least three times that of the saliva. When the saliva was acidulated with hydrochloric acid, it lost much of its transforming power, and a further addition of the acid made the process cease at once. The saliva could be preserved for several hours in a temperature below o° C. without losing its properties. And even when it had begun to undergo putrefaction, it was still capable of effecting the change of starch into sugar. Pehr found that, after removal of all tho salivary glands in dogs, no serious symptoms of any kind made their appearance. It seems, therefore.