OTHER VEGETABLE PRODUCTS. 461 Aquifoliaceae. Pei.ltsch.ek.—On Ilex Paraguay ends. Oester. Ztsch., vol. vii, p. 45, 1861. Schmidt, vol. 116, p. 296. The plant which produces Paraguay tea is met with, not only in the province'of that name, but in the fertile country to the southward, which lies between the rivers Parana and Uruguay. The finest tea is prepared from the smallest bushes. It consists either of half-opened buds, of the leaves carefully stripped from their stalks and ribs, or, lastly, of the twigs and leaves, dried in the air. It is in the two latter forms only that the tea is exported. The leaves contain tannin and ilicine, which latter is chemically identical with theine. The aromatic taste and narcotic action of the tea is believed to be due to a volatile oil which is developed in the process of infusion. In Paraguay the infusion (mate) is drunk at all meals ; it is made by pouring hot water on the powdered leaves, and is sucked through a tube fitted at one end with a perforated strainer. The infusion has a pleasant smell and an agreeable, bitter taste. It is 111 ueh more stimulant than ordinary tea, and produces a kind of intoxication if taken in excess. It is said, however, to tranquillise the passionate, and enliven the dull. The principal value lies in its power of sustaining nutrition; under its influence the metamorphosis of tissue is retarded, and the quantity of carbonic acid exhaled by the lungs, as well as of the other excretions, is diminished. Although the quantity of food becomes less, the health and bodily strength remain unimpaired, so that in a certain sense it takes the place of nutriment, although it is not itself nutritious. When taken in excess, it produces dryness of the throat, thirst, dysury, anxiety, pracordial oppression, pyrosis, sickness, constipation, dyspnoea, palpitation, vertigo, shivering, sleeplessness or nocturnal delirium, attended with terrifying illusions, and followed by a condition of incoherent dreaminess during the day. Aracece. Chairon.—Case of Poisoning by the root of Arum Caladium. L'Union, Dec. 18, p. 538. A workman, a;t. 44, of vigorous constitution, sent one night a written message, to the effect " that he had eaten a poisoned radish," to Dr. C—, who, on arriving at his bedside, found him in the following con- dition :—complete aphonia; extreme agitation ; breathing difficult and painful; incessant, dry cough, which had a muffled timbre, and was exasperated by every attempt to speak ; on being asked where he felt pain, he pointed first to his throat and then to the pit of the stomach. The pulse was almost natural (72), the breathing quick, and the respi- ratory movements interrupted, the epigastrium sinking at each inspira- tion.' There was neither diarrhoea nor vomiting. The whole of the mucous membrane of the mouth was injected, especially the soft palate and uvula, and the epiglottis and its folds were found, on exploration with the finger, to be much swollen and excessively tender. Thirty-six hours after, all these symptoms were declining, and after a few days the patient was well. It appeared subsequently, that this man had been induced, by way of a practical joke, to swallow a radish which had been rubbed over with caladium root, which is popularly known to have the