302 REPOET ON SUltGEUY. the hard palate at one time, whilst the patient is in the most favorable position, and also because the section of the muscles causes so much pain and bleeding, that we are generally obliged to interrupt the operation for a considerable time. It depends on the form and extent of the fissure, whether an incision should be made on only one or on both sides. If, as in the present case, the fissure is not very wide, and the osseous processes are tolerably developed, it is sufficient to make an incision on the side where the palate is not united with the vomer. Accordingly I carried an incision on the left side along the inner surface of the roots of the teeth, commencing behind the last molar, and ending opposite the canine tooth, so that between the anterior end of the lateral incision and the corre- sponding part of the fissure there remained an undivided portion of the breadth of one centimetre. This lateral incision passed through mucous membrane and periosteum down to the bone. "3. Separation of the soft parts from the bone.—On the right side we commence from the margin of the fissure, on the left from the lateral incision. The raspatorium is placed in the incision firmly against the bone, so that both periosteum and mucous membrane may be separated. As soon as this is done at one point to an extent equal to the width of the instrument, it is replaced by an elevator, and thus by slow, lever-like movements, the whole of the soft parts are separated at first forwards and then backwards. The mucous membrane, which covers the posterior surface of the soft palate, is now divided from the posterior margin of the palate-bone by a scalpel, as far as the hamular process. In this way we obtain two flaps of the same breadth as the palate processes from which they have been separated; anteriorly they are continuous with one another and with the alveolar process, posteriorly with the soft palate. I have found that on the subject it is more easy to separate both pe- riosteum and mucous membrane, than the latter alone; accordingly it is probable that such a method has been unconsciously and unintentionally followed in England. " 4. Passage of the sutures.—I decidedly prefer Langeubeck's instru- ment for this purpose to any other, and also perfectly agree with him that silk threads are better than silver or wire, because of their easier introduction and removal. The sutures should be introduced from before backwards, at the distance of two or three millimetres from each other; in the present case nine were quite sufficient, five for the hard, and four for the soft palate. " 5. Section of the muscles.—Langenbeck recommends an incision through the palate near the hamular process, closely resembling that em- ployed by S6dillot. I am decidedly of opinion that not only that incision for the division of the levator and circumflexus should be made, but also that each pillar of the palate should be separately divided. It is prin- cipally owing to the neglect of this point, that I ascribe the absence of union in the soft palate after the first operation in the present case. I fully satisfied myself in the second staphyloraphy, that the palate was very incompletely relaxed by the incision recommended by Langenbeck ; as soon, however, as both pillars had been freely divided by the scissors, the relaxation became complete. " The patient should now rest for some time ; the sutures may then be