REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 140 Cotton, R. P.—On the Action of Quinine in Phthisis. Med. T. and (Jaz. Aug. 30th. Cotton finds quinine, as a general remedy, inferior to other tonies, and in some eases injurious. A combination of quinine and iron is very beneficial. Waters, A. T. EL, M.D.—Observations on the Pathology of Emphysema of the Lungs. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., 1862. Waters distinguishes partial lobular emphysema, lobular emphysema, and lobar emphysema. The latter is by much the most important form, the whole of both lungs generally being affected. He finds the walls of the air-sacs to become perforated with small openings, which become more numerous and larger, so that at last the partitions of adjoining cavities are almost quite destroyed, with, of course, a corresponding number of vessels. He has no doubt that the disease in its severer forms is of a constitutional nature, and that it consists, at least in part, of a mal-nutrition-of the pul- monary tissue, causing its degeneration. The exact nature of this morbid change he cannot determine; he does not think it is of a fatty character. The grounds for entertaining the above view are (1) The absence in many advanced cases of previous severe cough. (2) The general character of the affection, involving equally both lungs and all parts of them. (3) The hereditary nature of the disease. (4) The beneficial effects of a tome treatment, such as is used in other degenerations. DIGESTIVE SYSTE.m! Moore, Neligan, J., M.D.—Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Aug. 1862. Records a case, applying for life insurance, in which the lining mem- brane of the tongue and inside of the cheeks was of a dead-white colour, uneven, but devoid of papillas. The functions of the parts were normal. This state had existed thirty years without change, and no cause could be discovered for it. The life was accepted at an extra rate of premium. About four years later, in consequence of an accidental bite, a tubercle of the size of a pea formed on the edge of the tongue, and was treated with caustic. After some time, however, hajmorrhage set in, necessitating an operation, which he survived only a few months, cancer having invaded the glands iu the neck. Nelaton.—Accidents produced by the Eruption of the Wisdom-Teeth. J. de Med. et de Chir.-pratiq., vol. xxxiii, p. 61. Nelaton records eight cases of long-continuing abscesses resulting from this cause, in which much treatment had been employed quite ineffectually until the wisdom-tooth was allowed free space to develop itself. Some- times it is necessary to extract the adjacent molar.