419 DISEASES, ETC., OF THE FCETUS. arteries is in places permanently broken ; in cases of placenta pnevia this event occurs at the commencement of labour and in a large proportion of such cases the child is stillborn. The cause now pointed out by the author is in operation in every labour. To the possible objec- tion to the position here taken up, that the circulation in the cord cannot be suspended, inasmuch as the cord still continues to pulsate^ the author answers that pulsation is not necessarily a sign of passage of blood; the cord pulsates after it has been tied between the ligature and the heart. Compression of the placenta gene- rally, may intensify the action here alluded to, but in a secondary manner. After labour has begun, the funis may be compressed and extended from well-known causes. The action of the uterus may be thereby intensified, and the uterine arteries more and more compressed as above described. Compression of the head has possibly its share in produciug still-birth in tedious labour from contracted pelvis, but this cannot be the case in still-birth with unusually rapid labour. A fur- ther effect of stoppage of placental circulation is that the entry of blood from the placenta to the foetus is prevented, and what arrives is impure and devoid of vitalising properties. When the apoplectic form of stillbirth is present, the phenomena are different; the pulmonary organs have been partially expanded, the pressure on the column of blood in the ductus arteriosus has been relieved to a certain extent, while the foramen ovale has become partially closed. On this respira- tion process being iuterrupted, however, the right heart becomes con- gested, hence the lividity, swollen features, &c. The alleged effects of secale cornutum are explained by what has been here related of the effects of rapid labour. It is fatal to the child when it gives rise to permanent unresting uterine contractions, unless we admit, at least, the directly poisonous influence of the drug on the foetus. The practical conclusions drawn are :—It is perfectly useless to delay tying the cord after the expulsion of the child ; more, it is injurious by interfering with efforts at resuscitation. In attempts to resuscitate a stillborn child, the first thing which should be done is to allow of the escape of a minute quantity of blood from the cord, thus to relieve that distension of the heart which prevents its action. If after a pause of two or three minutes the child does not breathe, and is not really and manifestly asthenic from prematurity, disease, &c, the cord should be divided, and one to three drachms of blood allowed to escape. In apo- plectic cases the quantity removed may be greater. The next step is to induce respiration. The warm bath is, the author believes, injurious; dashing cold water on the chest, slapping the back or nates with the hand, circular friction on the epigastrium with the tips of the fingers are all useful. These rarely fail if the heart still beats. The direct inflation of the chest with air is preferred to the " ready method" should the above measures fail. Sidey, Dr.—Intra-ulerine Convulsions. Ed. Med. Journ., 1862. In a case observed by the author the movements of the foetus during labour were very violent, leading him to suppose it to be convulsed. Soon after birth convulsions took place, and continued during the next