hei'Ort on surgery. DISLOCATIONS. Prof. Schinzinger ('Prag. Viertelj.,' 1862, ii, 144) lays down the principle, that in compound luxation of the ankle the portion of bone projecting through the wound should be at once excised. R. Schill, tet. 28 years, fell, on the 6th of October, i860, from a waggon, the inner side of the foot striking the ground. Dr. Hasenohr found a compound dis- location of the tibia inwards with fracture of the fibula, and at once excised the internal malleolus; he then united the skin-wound, and ap- plied the ordinary apparatus; ice was locally employed forfive days, and morphia administered internally. In the tenth week the patient could be raised, and five months after the accident he could walk for an hour by means of a stick, and up and down at home without any assistance. In September, 1861, the patient saw Dr. Schinzinger; it was then found that the ankle-joint possessed slight mobility, there was no depression at the inner side, but the whole leg was four centimetres shorter than the other. This shortening was caused by the upper fragment of the fibula being pushed along the inner side of the lower fragment; the upper fragment of the fibula and the extremity of the tibia rested at the same level on the astragalus, to which they appeared to be united by fibrous tissue. The end of the lower fragment of the fibula could be distinctly felt under the skin four centimetres above the external malleolus. Prof. Schinzinger recommended a closely fitting boot with a high heel. The portion of the tibia after removal measured five centimetres. A case of compound dislocation is reported (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' vii, 813), in which Mr. Syme removed the projecting portion of bone ; about five weeks later, death occurred from pysemia. In the remarks appended to the case, it is stated that " the severe, and occasionally fatal, consti- tutional disturbance, which follows compound dislocation of the ankle- joint, makes the treatment of these injuries of the greatest practical im- portance. One cause for these grave symptoms appears to be, the tension of the parts; and for this reason there is no doubt that a free removal of the projecting bone is the only treatment which ought to be adopted if an attempt be made to save the limb. But it has been found that, when the bone is not interfered with, or even sometimes after it has been freely taken away, as in this case, that serious and even fatal results have happened from the accident; and it therefore becomes a serious question, whether amputation at the ankle-joint would not be the preferable treatment. Amputation at the ankle-joint has the great advantage of being a safe operation, and causing comparatively little con- stitutional irritation; and certainly a good ankle-joint stump would hardly be inferior to a foot which must be stiff at the ankle. As it is our duty to save even a small portion of a limb, if we can do so without endangering life, I think it would only be right to attempt preservation of the foot, provided the nature of the injury and the patient's age aud constitution were favorable for so doing. But, on the other hand, if the patient is aged, weak, or of an unhealthy constitution, there can be no doubt that a primary amputation at the ankle-joint is the only safe means of treatment." Mr. Garraway, in a case of compound dislocation of the ankle, removed