OJO ItEPOItT ON SURGERY. year they slightly decrease; and that between six and ten years inclusive they are only one in thirty cases. Between eleven and thirteen the death- rate returns to one in fourteen cases, gradually rising hetween the four- teenth and sixteenth year to one in seven and a half, and from the six- teenth to the twentieth year to one in six cases. " During the first three or four years of life, lithotomy is far less suc- cessful than during the subsequent period. The first dentition, witli its dangers, is now encountered, and the excitable nervous system of infancy neutralizes some of the advantage which arises from the reparative power of childhood already referred to. But as those two constant sources of disease and death during the earliest years cease to he effective, we find the boy of six to ten years but very slightly exposed to risk from Jithotomy, the mortality being one in thirty cases, or little over three per cent. The approach of puberty slightly darkens the shade between eleven and thirteen ; shows itself in a marked manner between fourteen and sixteen ; and during the first onset of its influence on the system, between sixteen and twenty, before the man is fully developed, and before the body has become established and fortified, lithotomy counts its victims almost as numerously as at any subsequent period of life. " It has been already stated, that the most frequent cause of death in children is peritonitis. The bladder in children is an abdominal organ rather than a pelvic one, and has more intimate relations with the perito- neum, than the bladder of the adult possesses. On examining its structure, also, it is easily seen that the peritoneum is more entitled to its anatomical distinction of constituting one of the vesical coats in the child than in the adult. Hence violence in extraction tells much more readily aud directly on the peritoneum in the former than in the latter. In the adult we have seen that if the peritoneum is inflamed, it is rather by an extension through primary inflammation of the cellular tissue around the neck of the bladder, than by direct irritation occasioned by the operation. The converse condition is the rule with children. The undue manipulation of instruments in the cavity of the bladder, or exertion in withdrawing the stone, appears to excite peritoneal inflammation much more readily than any other lesion. That it does not happen in children by the interme- diate step of urinary infiltration is obvious from the fact, that the prostate in them is so exceedingly small as to be almost always, if not invariably, cut wholly through in lateral lithotomy, yet without its occurrence. Indeed, it is not possible that either forceps or finger can pass into the bladder, unless the incision exceeds the thickness of that organ. In considering this matter, there appears to be a tendency to forget a fact I have already alluded to,—the non-existence at this period, except in a rudimentary form, of any sexual organs. I have dissected many prostates in children ; the size of one at seven years (let us add, therefore, at the most favorable age for lithotomy) may be estimated from the fact, that it weighs about thirty grains, while from eighteen to twenty years it weighs 250 grains, or nearly nine times as much. And yet no infiltration of urine takes place,—lax, delicate, and yielding, as are the cellular inter- spaces necessarily exposed in these subjects. " Here then, again, as in the adult, the fatal injury from the operation is