286 REPORT ON SURGERY. retina, &c. ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862,1, 506): M. Foucart, case of glaucoma treated successfully by iridectomy, under M. Desmarres (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 106). Retina. So far as is known, separation of the retina is generally induced by affections of the choroid or vitreous. As an example of the value of treat- ment, Dr. Wecker ('Bull, de The>ap.,' 1862, p. 107, and 'Ann. d'Ocul.,' xlvii, 144) gives a case, which was treated by lleurteloup's artificial leech, with the effect of arresting the disease. M. B—, set. 34, had lost, eighteen months previously, his left eye in the space of eight weeks, though treated by one of the most skilful oculists of Paris. When seen by Dr. Wecker, there was complete separation of the retina with cataract on the left side, and on the right side the same affection was found to extend over the outer and lower quarter of the globe, although the disease had only commenced in this eye the evening before; moreover there was a sclerotico-choroiditis of slight extent, a softened vitreous which contained flaky opacities, and great myopia. On the next evening, the separation had extended over nearly all the lower part of the globe. Two and a half cylinders (about two and a half ounces) of blood, were at once drawn by means of the artificial leech. Five times the leech had to be repeated; bichloride of mercury was administered internally. Three months later a seton was inserted in the neck. From the time of the first bleeding, no increase took place, and at a later period some diminution even was found in the amount of retina separated. For the preceding three months there had been no further change. Dr. Alfred Graefe on ischsemia retinae ('Arch. f. Ophth.,' viii, r, p. 143).—Marie Koch, five and a half years old, the daughter of a surgeon, had always enjoyed the best of health up to the 9th December, i860, on the evening of which day she went to bed perfectly well; she slept till seven the next morning, when she arose, and her mother perceived that she was blind. Six days later, she came under Dr. Graefe; the face and skin were pale, the mucous membranes very amemic, the pulse very small and rapid, 160 beats in a minute. There was no congestion of the eyes, their tension was normal, the pupils much dilated and uuaffected by light. Both the main trunks and the smaller branches of the central artery of the retina were extremely small. The retinal veins were much twisted, large, but unequally distended. The limits of the optic disc were a little indistinct. There was no perception of light, not even of that of the sun concentrated by a lens. Up to the 29th December, the pulse was generally from 140 to 150, and never below 136. No affection of the heart; no fever. Digitalis was employed for two days, but was then abandoned, as it caused vomiting ; it had no effect on the pulse. Before her admission, she had been treated antiphlogistically by bleed- ing, blisters, calomel, &c, but without effect. Dr. Graefe tried Heurteloup's artificial leech, but found no result from it either as to the condition of the eyes or as to the vision. The diagnosis was very difficult; it was not an intracranial affection, such as a tumour, effusion of blood, or bursting of a cyst or abscess; for from these it was sufficiently distinguished by the paralysis affecting, and