RKl'ORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINK. 58 sometimes require cooling and derivative, sometimes analeptic and stimu- lating, measures. In monartliritis Lebert finds moxas, transcurrent cauteri- zation, douches, local potash or sulphur-baths, the most effectual remedies. Auburtin believes that cerebral symptoms, occurring during acute rheumatism, are extremely seldom the results of the disease, but rather of large doses of quinine, a state of alcoholism, or of mental emotions. Tungel says that the cerebral symptoms in rheumatism have nothing of a special character derived from the disease, but that they depend, as in all acute febrile disorders, on increased irritability, either individual or induced by external causes. He advises that the treatment should not be too lowering, and that mental repose should be maintained. Bouillaud distin- guishes the form of Eheum. with permanent inflammation from the neuralgic, in which he believes the neurilemma to be extensively in a state of inflammatory congestion, and that this state is prone to be propagated by continuity of tissue to the nervous centres. Pidoux contends that rheu- matism and gout, though not identical, have a common origin, and are essentially hereditary. Basham.—Med. T. and Gaz., Dec. 20th. He states that during the last twelve years he has treated all his cases of acute rheumatism with large doses of nitrate of potash, plentifully diluted, combined with the local application of a saline solution of the nitrate to the inflamed joints. The average duration of the disease is by this method considerably shortened, and rarely exceeds from three to four weeks. He does not believe that the nitrate at all lessens the formation of fibrine in the blood, but only that it retards or suspends the separation of the fibrine, and so prevents the exudation of this constituent, and ios deposit in the tissues. He prefers nitre to the alkaline carbonates, because they interfere too much with the functions of the stomach. Jellinek, L.; Marten.—Contributions to our Knowledge of Hereditary Syphilis. Wien. Med. Halle, ii, 27, 1861. Pr. Ver. Ztg., N.P., iv, 21, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 314. Jellinek records a case from which the following conclusions must be drawn: (1) A man affected with latent syphilis may infect his wife. (2) The wife, though presenting originally no phenomena of syphilis, may abort repeatedly, and at last give birth to a mature, viable child affected with syphilis. (3) No primary affection having existed previously, secondary symptoms finally appear in the wife. Hennig, C—Inherited Syphilis and Syphilitic Eruptions. Jahrb. d. Kinderbeilk, iv, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 315. Hennig's observations have led him to regard various eruptions as specific which are not usually regarded as such. He mentions eczema and eczema impetiginodes, as well as certain erythemata. Syphilitic parents metho- dically treated with mercury, may beget both healthy and diseased children. Syphilitic women, who have borne several diseased children, at last come to have healthy ones.