EBPOBT ON TOXICOLOOY AND MATERIA MliDICA. •158 fenestratum.—The wood of this twining plant, which is common in Ceylon, is a tonic hitter. It is rich in the alkaloid herheriue, to which probably its medicinal action may he referred. It also contains another alkaloid principle, called columbine. It is considered to be more active than columbo, and equally free from astringency. Menispermum Cana- dense.—The root of this species is also employed as a tonic. Its action is similar to that of the Ceylon species. It is plentiful everywhere in the United States. Iris versicolor.—The rhizome of this plant is used in Ame- rica as an emetic and cathartic. The substance to which the name iridin has been given, is prepared like podophyllin, by mixing the alcoholic extract with water and collecting the precipitate. It produces mild catharsis, with biliary stools, and may be given alone. It neither irritates the rectum nor produces constipation by its prolonged use. It acts more gently than podophylliu, and is equally reliable as a cholagogue. Leptandra virginica.—The dried rhizome acts as a cholagogue, tonic, and gentle laxative. Leptandrin is a similar preparation to podophyllin; it contains a crystal! isable alkaloid. It is met with as a black, shining pow- der, which probably often contains some other substance added in order to facilitate pulverization. Like iridin, it is supposed to be cholagogue, but differs from it in being without purgative action, for which reason it is of great value in chronic dysentery and infantile diarrhoea. Sarracenia purpurea.—On this plant the report consists of an original communi- cation from Mr. Miles, who records the alleged effects of this species of pitcher-plant among the Indians of Nova Scotia as an antidote to the poison of smallpox, but appears not to have seen any cases. Verbascum Thapsus.—The tincture of this very common plant (mullein) is pos- sessed of narcotic properties. In drachm-doses it acts with more cer- tainty than hyoscyamus. Gelseminum sempervirens.—Tellow jasmine is said to be a nervous sedative. In moderate doses (iinij—uiyiij of the tincture) it produces muscular relaxation, so that the patient has difficulty in moving his eyelids or keeping the jaws closed. It is stated that in larger quantity it produces dimness of . vision and ddated pupil, with complete loss of muscular power, and diminishes the frequency and force of the pulse and the frequency of respiration. It is used in America in the treatment of idiopathic fevers; it is said that the first indication of its action on the nervous system, dropping of the eyelids, is always attended with a remarkable disappearance of the febrile symptoms. Banunculacece. Holm.—On tie Physiological Action of Helleborus viridis. "Wurtz. Med. Ztsch., vol. ii, p. 448. Schmidt, vol. 114, p. 183. Holm's experiments were made on rabbits and frogs. A solution of the alcoholic extract was employed, and was administered, sometimes by the mouth, sometimes by injection, into the cellular tissue or (in rabbits) into the pleura, near the heart. The author concludes that in poisoning by this drug, paralysis of the heart is the primary cause of death, and is dependent on its direct action on the muscular tissue of the organ, the contractions of which, after they have once ceased, cannot be renewed,