57 GENERAL SYSTEM. as much opium, for a dose, twice daily for the first day, increasing the number of doses by one daily, unless colic or vomiting call for tbc discon- tinuance of the remedy. The pulse speedily falls, and the articular symptoms yield. Lebert, H.; Aoburtin, E.; Pidottx ; Durand-Fardel ; Tungel, C.; Bouillaud ; Bauermeister, G.; Oppolzer ; Moller ; Oppen- heimer ; Prevault.—On the Pathology and Treatment of Rheu- matism. Lebert, from his clinical experience at Breslan, gives a general account of the disorder and its various forms. He specially notices the cerebral symptoms which are occasionally met with, and often prove fatal. He finds these to be more frequent in males than in females in the pro- portion of 8 : 2. The season of the year, and the age of the patient, do not seem to have any notable influence. The most constant feature of the dis- order is severe polyarthritis. The time of the appearance of the nervous symptoms is usually towards the end of the first, and in the second week, but no subsidence of the articular inflammation ensues, so that there can be no idea of metastasis. The nervous symptoms consist mostly of delirium of a quiet land, with lucid intervals, with coma, which is not of long con- tinuance, and often is absent. Pain in the head is not frequent, nor disorder of the senses ; convulsive attacks occasionally occur. The patients are restless and excited, with prostration, apathy, increasing debility, and temporary syncope. The face is sometimes red, sometimes pale, and the expression much altered; the diseased joints retain usually to the last their increased temperature, tension, redness, and swelling. The pulse is always much accelerated. Death ensues, for the most part, without agony, either in the way of gradual asthenia, or rapid collapse, with coma after previous delirium. The duration of the nervous symptoms varies from six or seven hours to three days and a-half; in one case death took place after scarcely half-an-hour's collapse. The nervous centres and their membranes are found almost completely normal; in two out of ten cases there was spme extravasation of blood in the membranes. Ecchymoses are found at times in the endocardium, the kidneys, and the splenic region of the stomach. Lebert rejects the view that these nervous phenomena are the result of overdosing with quinine or nitre, and believes them to depend upon some morbid alteration in the blood, the essential nature of which, or of acute rheumatism, he thinks, is quite unknown. Lebert advocates anti- phlogistic treatment only in exceptional instances, and in a modified manner. Expectants he finds to render the disease protracted, and to favour the occurrence of grave complications. Nitre and tartar emetic, in divided doses, he is much inclined to recommend, especially in intense cases. Lemon-juice shortens the duration of the disease, lessens the fever and the frequency of the complications. Colchicum, veratria, opium, aconite, and propylamine he seems not to find of much efficacy. Quinine only I"'"1' s » decided effect when carried to the degree of producing severe narcosis, and even then it is not lasting. In general, Lebert says', there is. no specific for rheumatism, and treatment must be adapted to each individual case. This is true even of the nervous complications, which