IMPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 834 action, Bounds generated in the intestinal canal, the sound of the respi- ration, the sound of the abdominal aorta beating, and that of the pla- cental bruit, all these may interfere with the accurate distinguishing of the foetal heart-beat. On the part of the foetus the difficulties en- countered arise from the reflex movements often excited by the posi- tion of the mother, by the application of the stethoscope or the ear, and which give rise to rapid action of the foetal heart; occurrence of consider- able differences with frequency of the foetal pulse, without assignable reason, and dependent on unknown conditions of the foetus or mother; sudden occurrence of murmur in the funis, rendering the heart-beat inaudible, and altering its rapidity; lastly, the change in the double beat, by which is meant that at one time the first, at another the second, sound is most distinctly heard. With respect to the thirteen cases in which the author's diagnosis proved inaccurate, they are thus commented on:—In the first a girl was believed to be present, beats being 141 ; this turned out to be a case of twins, the twins both boys. This case should therefore be excluded; so also Nos. 2 and 3 where there occurred unexplainable variations, the series of single numbers would have given correct results, but the mean gave fallacious indications. In Case 4 the mean frequency was 145 ; the mother was suffering from tabes dor- salis, and her average pulse was 92. In Case 5 the mother was the subject of chronic metritis; the mean foetal pulse was 145, that of the mother 97. In these two cases a girl was diagnosticated, but it seems probable that the quickened maternal circulation had its effect in in- ducing the error, although these two cases are not sufficient to deter- mine this point. In Cases 6, 7, 8, and 9, the mean foetal pulse was 131, 147, 135, 136. There was a murmur in the funis constantly pre- sent. In Case 6 the cord was found at birth eoiled twice and in Case 7 coiled once round the neck. In Cases 8 and 9 there was a murmur of like character always present, but no coiling of the cord. _ In Cases 6, 8, and 9, boys were expected, but girls were born; and in Case 7, when a girl was expected, the reverse occurred. These four cases show, at all events, that pressure on the cord may be an obstacle in the way of the diagnosis. In Cases 10, 11, 12, and 13, the observations ex- tended over a short time only, and there is no other explanation to give of the erroneous diagnosis arrived at. In conclusion, the author gives other causes of fallacy—too short period of observation, the last days of pregnancy, insufficient care, several pregnancies, cases where the frequency of the pulse may correspond to either sex, diseases of the mother, pressure on the cord, and cases which are as yet insusceptible of explanation. Henkig.—On the Frequency of the Foetal Heart-beat. Wien. Med.- Halle, ii, p. 34, 1861. The author gives the result of a series of observations made syste- matically in a case of pregnancy from an early period. The observa- tions were made early in the morning, usually before rising, and only after the woman had rested quiet for some time. The foetal heart was first heard in the fourteenth week. The results were—