PREGNANCY AND CHILD-BED. 411 ment. Third day after delivery slight increase of headache, and con- vulsive action oi" eyes. Antimony again given, and continued at in- tervals five days longer. Tliree weeks later all trace of albumen had disappeared from the urine. The conclusions offered on the subject are:—The eclampsia in such cases is connected)with the albuminuria. The albuminuria is produced by the pregnancy, and aggravated by the constipation present. The attacks of convulsion begin with the pains, but convulsions having set in the pains diminish. Bleeding neither prevented the first attack of convul- sions nor the return of the second or third attacks. The action of the tartar emetic had the effect of inducing active uterine contractions, and of hastening the termination of the labour. The beneficial effects of the tartar emetic as regards the convulsions is proved. The author con siders French's theory of ursemic poisoning as the proximate cause of the convulsions, correct. The favorable action of the tartar emetic is due, the author thinks, to its eliminative effect—to the vomiting and diar- rhoea it sets up. He thinks further, that the tartar emetic has a neutralising effect on the carbonate of ammonia, supposed, on Frerich's theory, to be circulating in the blood and giving rise to the convulsions. Behm.— On Eclampsia. Mon. f. Geb. Supplementary volume for 1861, p. 1. The author has tabulated cases of eclampsia observed by him from 1836 to 1861. These are twenty in number. In nearly three-fourths of the cases the women were pregnant for the first time or in labour for the first time. In 7 cases previous to term, two of the patients were relieved without labour then supervening; in the other 5 labour came on prematurely. Thirteen were cases of eclampsia occurring at full term. In the latter series the convulsions came on;—in the dilatation stage of labour, in 2 cases; after evacuation of liquor amnii, and before birth of child in 7 cases; in the fifth stage of labour 1 case ; after labour quite completed, 3 cases. In 11 instances, when convulsions came on during labour, they continued after the labour was completed. The presen- tation was cranial in 16 cases, pelvic in 2, transverse in 2 (one was a case of twins). Result favorable for mother and child in 11 cases, fatal for both in 2 cases; in one of the latter the woman died undelivered ; result favor- able for mother alone, 6 cases; for child alone, 1 case; total mothers recovered, 17; children saved, 12. Of the children not saved 2 were premature and "macerated." Labour was completed naturally in 8 cases, by use of forceps in 9, by turning in 2. Placenta artificially ex- tracted in < cases. Putting the results and the conduct of the labour side by side we find, of the 17 cases in which the mother was saved, the labour was ended by natural efforts in 7, by the forceps in 8, by artificial extraction in 1 (case of twins), by removal of placenta in 1. In the fatal cases (for mother) the labour was ended thus :—In 1 case the woman died undelivered ; in 1 forceps used ; in 1 turning. The labours in which the children were saved were ended naturally in 5 cases, in 6 by forceps, in 1 by artificial extraction of child. The labours in which the children died were ended naturally; in 3 cases (1 macerated, 1