REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. Experiments were made with cocaine itself, the acetate and hydro- chlorate, and with an alcoholic extract of coca leaves. This extract is sweet at first, hut this sweetness is followed hy an intense bitterness, with some astringency. It has an acid reaction and dark-green colour,' and exhibits under the microscope minute sheaves of crystals. The cocaine was administered to frogs in doses varying from five to twenty milligrammes, to rabbits in doses of five to ten centigrammes, either by insertion into the subcutaneous cellular tissue (frogs), by injection into the peritoneum (rabbits), or by the mouth. In frogs, the only effect of the smallest doses was to impair the functions of respiration and voluntary motion; after medium doses drowsiness was produced, accompanied with complete cessation of breath- ing and a cataleptic condition of the muscles, from which the animal usually recovered. The contractions of the heart were either unaffected or became more forcible than before ; when the dose was further in- creased "all trace of excitability was extinguished," and the action of the heart was so much impaired that its beat could no longer be felt externally. Reflex movements could not be excited by any stimulus. In rabbits the effects differed according to the mode of administration. When the alkaloid was inserted into the cellular tissue it produced death in twenty-eight minutes, preceded by clonic convulsion and extreme mydriasis. After death the venous system and both cavities of the heart were found to be distended with blood. "When half the quantity was injected into the peritoneum scarcely any convulsion was observed; the pupils were dilated, and the animal passed into a condition of coma vigil, in which the breathing was remarkably retarded. For the purpose of determining the influence of cocaine on the human subject, the author made a series of experiments on himself. He found that, as regards respiration and circulation, its effects were similar to those observed in animals. The pulse from the first gained in frequency and strength, while the breathing lost in frequency, but became deeper and fuller. These changes were observable before any nervous pheno- mena presented themselves. As regards the action of the alkaloid on the functions of the brain, almost the only symptoms recorded are such as indicate a modification of general sensation \ Gemeingefuld, in which term the author, from the context, evidently includes both sensational and mental consciousness), namely, increase of subjective warmth, great feeling of comfort; this is accompanied by a condition in which the head feels agreeably light, the ideas flow with facility, and fantastic images follow each other in rapid succession, but is soon succeeded by extreme drowsiness, in resisting which the author experienced great oppression of the head and confusion of thought. If he had given way to it, he felt that he would have passed into an agreeable dream-life, such as that produced by Indian hemp. In both instances the effect of the drug varies according to the intensity of effort made by the subject to j resist it. This view is confirmed by the complete analogy between the action of cocaine in the frog and that of hemp. As soon as the inter- ference with consciousness ceases, and the relation between the mind and the external world is re-established, all the other functions return to their normal state.