SUBJECTS OF GENEltAL TNTEKEST. 175 in the first week of an existing febrile affection, proves with the greatest certainty that no typhus exists. In pertussis, so long as the tempera- ture remains normal, there is no inflammatory complication. A patient who has in the morning a temperature of 104° having been healthy the clay before, suffers either with ephemeral or intermittent fever; the latter if the temperature be 1060 or higher. In pneumonia a tempera- ture of 1040 and above is a sign of a grave illness; and m acute rheu- matism it is a suspicious symptom, and indicates some dangerous complication or change. An increase of temperature in a case of icterus, which previously was benignant, gives ground for expecting that it will assume the pernicious form; in a lying-in-woman it is a sign of com- mencing inflammation; in a tuberculous patient, a proof of the advance of the process, or of the setting-in of complications. The following descriptions are given of the temperature changes in various affections :— In ephemeral fever the rise is rapid, and the culmination is reached in a period varying from a few hours to thirty-six; it remains at this point for twenty-four hours at most, and then rapidly falls. The temperature in measles reaches its culminating point on the fifth day, and then a rapid and complete defervescence and fall of temperature ensues, which is com- plete in thirty-six to eighty-four hours, unless complications ensue. The course of the fever in erysipelas is similar, but the culmination period is longer, and the time of the commencing defervescence varies between the fourth and eighth day. Defervescence is rapid, and completed in twelve to thirty-six hours. It is, however, by no means Uncommon for short relapses, attended with a rise of temperature, to occur. In scar- latina the febrile temperature long continues high, and its fall when it begins is gradual, occupying four to eight days. In varioloid occurring after vaccination, the temperature is high for a few days, but falls very rapidly as the eruption comes out—six to ten degrees in thirty-six hours ; nor does it rise again (unless serious complications take place) except to a moderate amount, and for a few days during the drying up of the pustules. In regular variola the temperature falls more or less when the eruption comes out; rises again to a considerable height during the pro- cess of suppuration; sinks after a varying time, to rise again at the time of desiccation. The changes during enteric typhus have been con- sidered in the last report (1861). In exanthematic (true) typhus the duration of the fever uninterrupted is longer than in any other typical disease except enteric typhus. Weekly periods are observed, resembling closely those of this form. In regular cases, if slight, there is a small decrease on the fourth day, which becomes still more notable on the 7th, changes to a brief increase at the beginning of the second week, and sinks again, so as to arrive at the normal at the end of this, or the beginning of the third week. In severe cases the fever lasts with great intensity, at least until the twelfth day, mostly to the fifteenth, and defervescence ensues more often in the first half of the third than at the end of the second week. During the culmination the thermometer often marks 1040 to 1060 or more. The difference between the morning and evening temperature during this period amounts to no more than i° 1, to i° 48 F., whereas in typhoid fever the difference is greater. The defer-