85 NERVOUS SYSTEM. nccted with a particular degeneracy of the spinal cord, occupying the seat above indicated, and capable of extending to the isthmus of the brain, and reaching the motor nerves of the eye, the optic, and other cranial nerves. Jaccoud.—Critique of the Views held respecting " Ataxie Locomotrice." Gaz. hebdomad, ix, 8, i86z. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 297. Jaccoud maintains that the disease is not essentially different from muscular anaesthesia, that it is not a special disease, but only a variable aggregate of symptoms corresponding to different anatomical alterations, that the apparently constant atrophy and fatty degeneration of the posterior spinal columns is not primary but secondary, and arises as the consequence of the loss of sensation in the muscles, which is produced at the periphery; lastly, that the "ataxia" in its commencement is purely functional and cm-able. The circumstance that in muscular anaesthesia the eye is able to regulate the movements, while it is unable in " ataxia," only proves that the latter is a higher grade of the same affection, and that the correcting power of vision is gradually lost. Charcot and Vulpian.—Atrophy of the Posterior Columns and Boots of the Spinal Cord. Gaz. hebdom. ix, 16, 18, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 43. A female, ajt. 42, had first disorder of vision, passing on to complete amaurosis. Eleven years after the lower limbs began to lose the power of co-ordinating movements, especially those of walking, while the muscular contractility remained unimpaired. The sense of touch was enfeebled, but not that of pain, nor the muscular sense, nor that of temperature. There was wasting of the legs, but not of the arms. Death ensued from phthisis pulmonalis. At the autopsy the posterior columns from the dorsal region up to the cervical were found of a grey colour and stiff consistence, and traversed by scattered white lines. Hie grey parts consisted of cellular tissuc without nerve elements, the white parts appeared to be new-formed nerve fibres. The posterior roots were very thin, and showed the same grey colour, especially marked in the dorsal region and diminishing below; the posterior cervical roots, as well as all the anterior, were normal in size and colour. But few amyloid bodies were found in the diseased cord, but many small vessels were surrounded with fat molecules. The brain, pons Varolii, and medulla oblongata were normal; the N. optici up to their origins were atrophied, and showed no nerve structure. The authors regard the alteration of the posterior columns as a primary change, and consider that the disorder of motor power may depend on the loss of the muscular sense. How the sensations of pain and of temperature were appreciated does not appear. Charcot and Vulpian.—On the Use of Nitrate of Silver in the Treatment of " Ataxie Locomotrice Progressive." Bullet. Gener. de Therap Med Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Nov. 1862. Wunderlich (Arch. d. Heilk., 1861) has recorded five cases of this disease "Inch obtained more or less considerable amelioration from the administration of argenti nitras. The amendment was speedy, the largest