niiroirr ox surgery. 2G2 least force, or is entirely destroyed ; the capsule loses its firmness and power of resistance, and owing to the large amount of exudation becomes expanded to a surprising size. The surrounding muscles contract with increased power, and press the articular surfaces together, in the direction of their force, so long as their parenchyma is not saturated with exudation ; when, however, they become infiltrated, they loose all power, and no longer serve as bonds of union. Another point of some import- ance is the posture ; the ordinary one is that on the back, the leg flexed on the thigh and the latter on the abdomen, with rotation outwards and abduction ; the back of the head of the femur not only rests, but is pressed against the posterior rim of the acetabulum by the action of the gluteal muscles, and the bones gradually wear away at the point of pressure. This wearing away of the bone-tissue is always found, to a greater or less extent, in cases of dislocation. If a cure takes place during this first stage of the disease, the swollen parts necessarily shrink, the infiltrated tissues diminish in size, and the articular surfaces no longer fit one another. The greater the changes that have already occurred, the greater will be the liability to dislocation. Were the head of the femur to be kept at perfect rest in the first stage of hip-disease, it could only be displaced by an enormous growth of granulations, an event that can only be of the rarest occurrence : fluid exudation alone would not cause dislo- cation, owing to the great expansibility of the capsular ligament. The patient, however, does not lie at perfect rest, and when the extremity is rotated inwards, either by active force or passively, the head readily slips out of the joint and is drawn upwards and backwards by the gluteal muscles. When inflammation spreads to the bones, or when the disease commences as osteitis, the bones become softened and changed in shape. During the inflammatory stage the bones are pressed together; and thus the acetabulum becomes larger, the head of the femur smaller; the margin of the acetabulum becomes rounded oft", its fundus raised by ossifying granulations ; the result is that a little head is applied to a large and shallow socket. In such a case, even slight adduction or rotation inwards of the thigh will throw the head backwards and upwards. If the inflammation passes further into caries, the bones become still more worn away and the head of the femur often entirely disappears. The patho- logical luxation may thus occur in the stage of exudation, in that of wear- ing-away (usure) of the bone, and in that of caries; it is anatomically characterised by the intra-capsular position of the head of the femur. In the first stage the capsula becomes so wide as to allow displacement of the head, without perforation; in that of wearing away the capsula is itself moved backwards, and in the third stage the head is still within the capsula. The head of the femur is displaced backwards and upwards, through pressure, wearing away of the bone and muscular contrac- tion. The differences between the traumatic and the pathological dislocation of the hip-joint are many and important; the former is caused by external violence, the latter by functional or gentle passive motion ; in the former the joint is perfectly healthy, in the latter always diseased ; in the former the ligamentum teres is always ruptured, in the latter occasionally not; in the former the capsular ligament is perforated, in the latter not;