REPORT ON PRACTCOAI MEDIO! N B. 142 Kkilleh, A.—On. Oanorum Oris. Edin. Med. J., April, 1862. Keillor gives the histories of six cases, of which two recovered, the last being less severe than the others. He points out the diagnosis between the gangrenous stomatitis, or cancrum oris, and the much less dangerous affections known as ulcerative, or follicular, or .aphthous stomatitis. Cancrum oris almost always ensues upon some debilitating disease, typhoid fever, measles, ague, struma. Unhealthy hygienic conditions, beyond doubt, have to do with its commencement as well as progress. Besides a general tonic treatment, Keiller insists on early and thorough cauterization of the affected cheek with nitric acid. The application is to be made under chloroform, and great care taken that no sloughy part escapes the action of the .acid. The mouth ought also to be well syringed out with chloride of lime solution, to remove the putrid discharges, and get rid of the gan- grenous emanations, which, being continually inhaled, contaminate the blood, and so in all probability contribute materially to the fatal event. Williams, Tfios., M.D., F.E.S.—On Perforating Ulcer of the TJiroat. Brit. Med. J., July 19th. Williams has met with twenty cases, in four of which it was certain that no syphilitic disease had ever been contracted; in fifteen syphilis had existed, and in one it was doubtful. The perforating ulcers are probably allied to the excavating, which are met with in the pharynx, larynx, and tonsils, but differ from them in several respects, especially in that they are absolutely curable by pot. iod., while mercury is more efficient for the excavating. Some interesting remarks are made as to the relation of the syphilitic, rheumatic, and scrofulous diatheses to each other. Anstie, F. E., M.D.—On the Alcohol QuestioA. Lond. Med. Rev., March, April. Anstie argues (1) That in small doses, not too frequently repeated, alcohol acts as a special stimulant of the nervous system, and exerts no poisonous action on the body whatever. (2) That alcohol in large doses acts as a narcotic poison, and that its operation as such is purely depress- ing. (3) That alcohol, if it can be shown to possess the power of singly sustaining life, although imperfectly, for any considerable period, ougbi to be considered as a food. Of the latter position, he adduces some very notable evidence. The first case is one of acute rheumatic pericarditis, in which the stomach could retain nothing but gin-and-water for seven days, and very little for another week. There was no emaciation, and strength was quickly recovered. He took ,fxij of gin daily. Case II. was one of pneumonia in a child, where the stomach rejected even/thing, even water, except port wine, of which |vj were taken daily for twelve days. For some days after nothing more could be taken except a little cod-oil. The child recovered rapidly and completely, and at no time was there any per- ceptible emaciation. Case III. was one of very severe double pneumonia, in which the administration of antimony brought on such great irritability of the stomach, that everything was rejected except iced water. This patient took twenty-four ounces of brandy every twenty-four hours for ton davs, and for many more very little else. He was never inebriated, ma.le