REPORT ON SURGERY. without causing n fatal haemorrhage, so long as the circulation continued in the vessel concerned, I availed myself of a screw clamp which Pro- fessor Lister, of Glasgow, hud had constructed for effecting compression of the aorta. This he applied so as to stop pulsation in the right groin, and I then, hy means of a probe-pointed bistoury, at once dilated the wound to the extent of six inches, parallel with the crest of the ilium. By the united action of both hands all the blood and fibrinous clots, to the amount of six pounds by measurement, having been scooped out, the sur- face of the sac was carefully examined, when a small oval aperture was detected in what might be called the roof the cavity, towards its inner side, high up in the pelvis. Upon relaxation of the screw, a gush of blood left no room for doubt as to this being the arterial orifice, but upon ex- amination, it was found to be separated from the vessel by a very dense texture forming the sac. Having divided this, I dissected carefully, so as to bring the arterial coats distinctly into view, and passed a ligature on each side of the opening. When these were tied, the blood still issued, though not with the same force as it had done previously, and we there- fore inferred that the internal iliac originated from the portion of vessel which had been included. A ligature was applied, with the view of em- bracing it, and then the clamp was taken off, without any further bleeding. The edges of the wound were kept in contact by silver sutures, covered with dry lint, and gently supported by a bandage. The patient, who had slept quietly during the whole process, then awoke, quite unconscious of the arduous undertaking in which we had been engaged. Everything went on favorably afterwards : the patient was at once relieved from the pain, which he had been able to endure only through the use of large opiates, the oedema of his thigh quickly disappeared, and a slow but pro- gressive improvement was observable in his general health. On the nine- teenth day after the operation all the ligatui'es came away together, and then the wound gradually contracted. The patient's state seemed very precarious until the end of nearly three months, when so decided a change for the better took place as to remove all anxiety. But soon after this, from unfortunately sleeping with an open window, inflammation of the pleura was excited, and proved fatal on the 31st of July. On examination it was found that the external iliac had been torn completely across and drawn up into the pelvis, where its open mouth, being mistaken for a slit, had imposed upon the gentlemen who had assisted me, and myself, so as to make us suppose that the ligatures were applied immediately above instead of below the bifurcation of the common iliac." Mr. Syme " feels persuaded that while aneurisms of the popliteal, femoral, and carotid arteries are proper subjects for ligature of the vessel without opening the sac, those of the axillary and iliac arteries should be treated by ligature at the seat of rupture, especially as I have shown that in both of these situa- tions haemorrhage may be effectually prevented during the operation by pressure applied nearer the heart." In the same volume (p. 441) Mr. Lee records a fatal case of aneurism of the external iliac, treated by digital pressure ; it in many respects closely resembles Mr. Syme's case which has been just quoted : the treat- ment appeared to have at first a favorable effect. P. Kigaud (' Clin. Chir. de Strasbourg,' 4th part, Par., 1862) proposes