GENERAL SYSTEM 39 Ragaine finds no ill effects from vaccinating delicate, thin children, under a month old. Barillier, at Bordeaux, relates experience of an opposite kind, and prefers, in hospitals, not to vaccinate children before the second or third month. Liegard refers to cases in private practice in favour of very early vaccination, within a few hours after birth. Laforque also finds (i) that vaccination practised on children during the first days that follow their birth is not dangerous; and (2) that the acci- dents observed after vaccination are exceptional, or due to causes foreign to vaccination. He does not, however, recommend vaccination, as a rule, in children favourably circumstanced, before the age of three months. Robert, Danyan, and Depaul seem to hold nearly the same opinion. Morris, F. W.—Amer. Med. T., May 24th. Recommends highly the sarracenia purpurea as an immediate and absolute remedy in smallpox, and probably in all contagious diseases. Cleborne, Ch. J.—On the Treatment of Variola. Amer. Q. J. of the Med. Sc., April, 1862. Cleborne treated forty-three cases of confluent variola with large (31—31]) doses of pot. chloras internally, and plasma pot. iod. externally, with only three deaths. Six out of thirty-seven had been previously vaccinated. The following is the formula for the plasma:—Pot. Iod. 3xij ; Arrow- root, 3i + 9j ; Glycerine, 3y ; 01. Bergamot, tlx 4°- Dickson, S. H.—On Smallpox and the Means of Protection against it. Amer. Q. J. of Med. Sc., July, 1862. Dickson remarks on the recent prevalence and fatality of variola, and believes it to be in the power of all civilized and well-governed communi- ties to confine within very narrow limits, or rather to exterminate this pestilence. He proposes that it shall be ordained that every child shall undergo vaccination by some expert within a month after birth; that, as soon as the constitution shall have gone through its influence, inoculation with variolous virus shall be performed, and that this latter operation shall be repeated again and again at brief intervals, until all reasonable satisfac- tion has been attained of the entire extinction of the susceptibility to small- pox. Miles, H. C.—On the Employment of the Sarracenia Purpurea, or Indian Pitcher-plant, as a Remedy for Smallpox. Lancet, Oct. 18th. The root is to be slowly and thoroughly dried, the thin fibres around it pared away, and the firm solid part alone used. The root, sliced into thin pieces, is to be immersed in water, 3"i—S[ij ac* Oij. for two or three hours. The results of the administration of this remedy, to persons already covered with varioloid eruption, are (1), Rapid diuretic action, with immediate lessening of the febrile symptoms; and more tardily it acts as an evacuant on the large intestines; (2), On a repetition of a dose of the decoction (which perhaps should be given after three or four hours), the mitigation and obvious improvement, should any symptoms of cerebral disturbance be