223 GONORItHCEA. the ordinary leucorrhoeal discharges, occurring in married women, in the scrophulous, &c, will only produce a slight catarrhal discharge in the male, and no veritable gonorrhoea ; the slight discharges, which are so common in prostitutes, are often, according to him, really the remains of some former gonorrhceal attack, and are infectious. He states that warts behind the corona glandis are a certain sign of a previous gonorrhoea. It is true that only the glans (balanitis) may have been affected, there may have been no urethral affection; but that there has been gonorrhoea, is certain. He gives an important caution as to a class of cases which are often considered as balanitis ; a superficial excoriation on the glans or prepuce, accompanied by a certain amount of discharge, often forms the commencement of a hard chancre ; the discharge and excoriation often entirely disappear before the occurrence of induration, for the latter does not appear till from the third to the sixth week, and thus the nature of the case may be, and often is, overlooked both by patient and surgeon until the development of secondary symptoms no longer allows a doubt. Excoriations of small extent always merit the greatest attention ; an exami- nation of the female may to some degree assist the surgeon; his rule, however, in practice, should be—never to give a decided opinion in such cases before the end of the sixth week from the time of sexual intercourse, and then only after careful observation and repeated examination. The lapse of a certain length of time is indispensable for a positive diagnosis. M. Beyran says that the mixture of tar with copaiba completely masks its disagreeable taste and odour; he prescribes copaiba and tar, of each equal parts ; magnesia, sufficient to form a mass capable of being divided into pills ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 118). Dr. Spengler treated a case of neuralgia after gonorrhoea by the local application of Arg. Nit. with success ; violent burning in the situation of the fossa naviculars, and a feeling of icy coldness in the glans, were the neuralgic symptoms (' Not. a. d. Geb. d. Nat./ and 1 Med.-Chir. Runds.,' 1862, ii, 110). Mr. Childs has employed the pernitrate of mercury with the happiest results. In some instances six injections have been sufficient to effect a cure, whilst in other cases the treatment has rarely exceeded ten days. With the exception of a saline purgative at first, no other medicine was administered. The strength of the injection is half a minim of the solution of pernitrate of mercury to an ounce of water; to be used three times a day. The solution contains twelve grains of the solid hydrargyri pernitras in the fluid drachm (' Lancet,' 1861, ii, 350, 434). Mr. Baizeau describes a hsemorrhagic inflammation of the neck of the bladder, which occasionally complicates gonorrhoea. Its cause is gene- rally the use of irritant injections or alcoholic and venereal excesses ; exactly the same affection occurs from injury or irritation of the neck of the bladder by the passage of calculi or of instruments. It prin- cipally occurs towards the latter part of the gonorrhceal attack, some- times when the discharge has almost entirely disappeared ; in general it commences suddenly, and is attended with great vesical irritability. On micturition the urine is at first clear, then becomes of a reddish hue, and, finally, a few drops of pure blood escape j then there follows a spas-