REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 146 intestinal irritation, and nervous depression. The latter arc very various, consisting of strangling sensations, weakness of the lower limbs, and loss of voluntary power, convulsions, disturbance of vision, and dilatation of tlie pupil. These last longer than the irritation, eight or nine days. The female roe appears to be the most poisonous part. Bouciiardat.—On Fatty Diarrhoea attending Diabetes. Bull. Gen. dc Therap., July 15th, 1861. Bouchardat relates a case in which the urine of a previously diabetic patient had become normal both as to quantity and quality. A large amount of starchy food was taken, and still the patient became daily more weakened and emaciated. He had five or six stools in twenty-four hours, which were copious, black, and semi-solid. At the time wben they were discharged a large quantity of oil floated upon them, and became solid in cooling. This discharge of fatty matter continued in spite of the removal as far as possible of all fat from the food. It was, however, reduced by lessening the amount of the fatty and starchy ingesta, and by directing regular and active exercise. The patient, however, died after a severe attack of diarrhoea. Bouchardat believes that this fatty diarrhoea attending diabetes results from the exaggerated transformation of the starchy materials into fat; and that it is only a transformation of glycosuria. In diabetes the sugar is carried off by the urine, in pimelorrhcea the fat is removed by the intestines. The symptoms in both forms of disease are the same, only they are more violent in pimelorrhcea than in diabetes. Eose, E.—Experiments on the Action of Santonins and the Essential Oil of Semen-contra. Ann. de Therap., 1862, p. 177. Santonine is not poisonous, it is nearly insoluble, and very destructive to lumbrici, most of it is evacuated with the faeces. The oil, on the contrary, is not a vermifuge, it is absorbed from the stomach and upper intestine, and in large doses it is poisonous. Babbits are killed by 3 ss in convulsions. Cotjsens, E.—Brit. Med. J., June 21st. Becords a case of incarcerated intus-susception in a child, ret. thirtee months, successfully treated by inflation. The attack came on qui suddenly while the child was quietly reposing in its mother's arms afte taking the breast. It vomited an undigested meal of boiled bread, an immediately fell into deep syncope. There were severe tormina, but no diarrhoea, some blood-stained mucus was passed. The attack commenced at 10 a.m., and at 7 p.m. an horizontal tumour was detected in the situa- tion of the right half of the transverse colon, and another vertical one extending upwards from the right iliac region. Dover's powder and stimulants were administered. The insufflation caused some distress and increase of syncope, but the horizontal tumour disappeared, and the vertical diminished notably. Bccovcry took place gradually; rigidity of the trans- verse colon was still evident at intervals on the third day. Beed, H. G., M.D.—On some Affections of the Ccccal Portion of