PHEGNAXCY AND GUILD-BED. 401 The author relates a case in which the patient was seized with febrile symptoms and apparent inflammation of the uterus a few days after labour, and on the fourteenth day with sudden severe pain in the right leg, followed by loss of pulsation of the arteries of the leg, swelling, gangrene, and' death. The author enters on an analysis of cases previously recorded by other observers. He considers that there are two classes of cases of this disease in the systemic circulation ; in one rheumatism precedes the accident, there being probably a washing away of vegetations from the cardiac valves into the arteries; in the other there is coagulation of blood in the left heart, and the obstruction occurs in consequence of washing of portions of the heart-clot into the arteries. The embolism of the pulmonary circulation results from blood-clots from the systemic veins passing into the right heart and pulmonary circulation. Cowan, Dr.—Puerperal Pulmonary Embolism. Ed. Med. Journ., Nov., 1862. The patient, set. 22, a primipara, died very suddenly eighteen days after an easy, normal labour. After sitting by the fireside for some time, expressing a feeling of fatigue, she said she would go to bed. On endeavouring to get into bed she uttered a smothered cry, and fell to the ground, neither speaking nor moving after. The brain was much in- jected, but healthy ; the left side of the heart empty and firmly contracted ; the right greatly distended with fluid blood. Three ounces of fluid in the pericardium. Lungs both highly congested ; a fibrinous clot, about an inch and three quarters in length, was found in the pulmonary artery, extending into its left branch. The clot completely occupied the calibre of the vessel, and required to be removed by the fingers. It is not stated what was the condition of the other veins of the body. Hjoiit.— On the Causes of Puerperal Fever in Lying-in Hospitals, Eorhandl. ved de Skand. Natursforsk., 8, Mode i Kjobenhavn, p. 878. Schmidt, 113, p. 322. The observations of the author refer to the lying-in hospitals in Gothenburg, the annual deliveries in which amounted to about 200, but latterly to about 300. During the last three years, out of 700 cases, the mortality amounted to eleven from puerperal fever, in five other cases death took place after leaving the hospital from causes connected with parturition. During the three years in question, there were six more or less severe epidemics of puerperal fever. In all the epidemics, with one exception, it was traceable to a traumatic origin. In one instance an infant was the means of conveying the disease to other patients. "When women have arrived at the end of the first week perfectly well they rarely become afterwards affected with puerperal fever. The presence of erysipelas may give rise to puerperal fever epidemics. The disease may be conveyed by means of a healthy individual, and may thus affect others ; a case is related to prove this. Every patient attacked with puerperal fever should be at once placed in a separate chamber, and be subsequently attended by a special nurse, and the same pre- caution should be used in the event of any patient becoming attacked with any acute disease. 26