DISEASES OF W05IEX. 389 of the remains of the pedicle, and this continued in varying quantity for several days. She finally left the hospital in a state of health. In describing the symptoms of the disease, the author points out certain peculiarities presented by one of the patients. An anxious, suffering expression; compressed elongated lips ; depressed angles of the mouth ; widely-open, sharply-defined nostrils ; prominent cheek-bones ; sunken eye; furrowed forehead—are often seen in subjects of ovarian disease, pointing not only to such a loss of fat as leaves the bones and muscles almost as perceptible as if they had been dissected, but to something more—to the heavy weight the patient has to carry, in a situation impeding respiration aud preventing free action of the dia- phragm. In the case next related the diagnosis presented several points of great interest, it being considered doubtful whether the tumour present was a semi-solid tumour of the ovary or a fibrous outgrowth from the uterus. By some who had examined the patient it had been considered to be a case of pregnancy in an abnormal position. The tumour was found to be nearly solid; it was broken up, in order to be removed without necessity for enlarging the opening in the abdominal walls, and a quantity of pseudo-colloid matter escaped; the tumour was then drawn out, and the pedicle secured by the clamp. The tumour had dated from a year previous ; the tumour was in front of the uterus, and the cervix could be moved independently of the tumour; the tumour itself, as felt from the vagina, was hard and rounded, and offered a sort of ballottement. Before the operation was performed there had occurred some ascitic effusion, and this had rather facilitated the diagnosis. The patient perfectly recovered. The next case alluded to was interesting from the fact that secondary haemorrhage occurred four hours after the wound had been closed. . This was the first time the author had noticed this accident; the patient had been tapped once, when*secondary cysts were ascertained to exist; she was pale and emaciated; the larger cysi had some extensive parietal adhesions, easily separated; the narrow pedicle was secured by a piece of wire rope, tightened by an ecrascur screw, the pedicle left secured by the wire at the lower angle of the wound. She rallied well, but soon became restless and began to vomit. Three hours after the operation she still remained restless, and forty drops of laudanum were thrown into the rectum. Four hours after the operation she was found bleeding freely from the side of the pedicle. The bleeding point could not be reached by drawing the pedicle out a little, so the wound was reopened, and the bleeding surface tied in three portions, and the bleeding stopped. The patient had fainted, and was at one time supposed to be nearly dead. Hot brandy was poured down her throat, the blood and clots cleared away, and the wound re- closed. She vomited, and soon rallied and was then doing well. In this case, as in the other previously related, when ligatures had to be applied close to the uterus, there was formation of pus subsequently in the broad ligament. There had been rapidity of pulse, tendency to vomit; dusky, jaundiced hue of face; ammoniacal condition of urine. A fulness was felt between the uterus and rectum, causing a projection of the posterior wall of the vagina, into which, after waiting for four days, a trocar was passed, and eight ounces of dark-coloured, fetid fluid