REPORT ON SURGKHV. 276 extent as to conceal the lower margin of the pupil. The movements of the eye are much restrained, so that he cannot look to one side without turning his head ; as lie says, " he can't look no way." There is epi- phora, as the tears cannot make their way to the puncta. Vision is also somewhat interfered with. April 7th.—The eyelid having been dissected off the globe, two flaps of conjunctiva were dovetailed into the situation of the symblepharon, the skin forming the apex of the symblepharon being left on the surface of the cornea. August 27th, 1861.—It is now difficult to distinguish the eye operated on from the other. The movements of the eye are perfectly free in all directions. There is a band of transplanted conjunctiva three eighths of an inch in breadth, extending from the edge of the lid to the margin of the cornea, and dipping down between the lid and the eyeball. The epi- phora has ceased. The apex of skin left on the cornea has become trans- parent, and can only be detected by examination under a strong light. The sight has also been considerably improved.* Mr. Teale draws the following conclusions : 1. That conjunctiva may be transplanted without losing its vitality or properties. 2. That a symblepharon maybe replaced by loose moveable conjunctiva, at least equal in breadth to the flaps originally transplanted. 3. That a comparatively small breadth of conjunctiva introduced into the situation of a symblepharon is sufficient to afford greatly increased, if not perfect freedom of motion to the eyeball, a freedom which continues to increase for many months after the operation. 4. That where the conjunctiva of the lateral and upper parts of the eyeball has not been damaged, flaps of a quarter of an inch in breadth may be taken away without giving rise to any deterioration of the parts whence they have been taken. 5. That in separating the adherent eyelid from the globe, it is not necessary to dissect off from the cornea any portion of the skin that may be adherent to it, but that it is better to commence the separation of the lid at the margin of the cornea, leaving the opaque apex of the symble- pharon adherent to the cornea. My object in commencing the separation of the lid at the margin of the cornea, thus leaving an opaque island of skin on the cornea, was twofold. In the first place, it seemed more than probable that, if the corneal surface had been denuded of its adherent skin, any conjunctiva transplanted into the gap would be drawn by cica- trization over the newly made raw surface of cornea, as the skin of the eyelid had been in the first instance. The conjunctival flap would thus have been rendered useless, and the opaque skin would have been replaced by not very transparent conjunctiva. In the second place, I had a faint hope, that the isolated portion of skin, being cut off from all continuity with skin, and depending for its nutrition on the cornea supporting it, and a merely cicatricial union with conjunctiva, might become atrophied and less opaque. The result has far exceeded my expectations. In the * A photograph of this patient, taken seventeen months after the operation, with which we have heen favoured hy Mr. Teale, shows in a most satisfactory manner the great improvement.—T. W.