REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA. MEDICA. 428 the extremities and collapse. Cold epithems were applied externally and magnesia was given internally, with almond emulsion and white of eggs but afforded little relief. The further progress of the case is not related in detail; it, however, appears that at the end of a week the patient was able to get up, and took solid food for several days. Subsequently deglutition became difficult, and was accompanied with regurgitation and finally no food could be swallowed. He died on the fortieth day' no nourishment having been taken for fourteen days. Autopsy (time not stated).—Body emaciated to a skeleton, surface exhibiting sugil- lations, and here and there phlycteme. Eyes sunk, pupils dilated, lips gaping; mucous membrane of mouth and gullet covered with a grayish coating, on the removal of which scar-like streaks are brought into view. (Esophagus contracted throughout, particularly at its lower end, where it is so narrow as scarcely to allow of the passage of a crow-quill; stomach dilated, containing about sixteen ounces of greenish-yellow fluid, in which float masses of tenacious and viscous mucus. Mucous membrane beset near the cardia with stellate cicatrices, merging into each other at their edges ; pylorus much thickened and contracted. The rest of the alimentary canal was empty, and its mucous mem- brane pale. INORGANIC SUBSTANCES. Phosphorus. Wagner.—Contributions to the History of Poisoninr/ ly Phosphorus. Arch. d. Heilk., vol. iii, p. 359. Schmidt, vol. 116, p. 88. A girl of 13 took, on the 2nd of April, 1861, an undetermined quantity of phosphorus paste; this was followed by vomiting, which recurred at intervals till the fourth day, when it ceased after the free use of milk. On the 5th she was first seen by Dr. B—, when her state was as follows :—Epigastric pain; no distension or retraction of the belly; moderate pyrexia; urine depositing a considerable sediment; intelligence normal, articulation slow. Carbonate of magnesia was given internally, and cold fomentations were applied to the belly. In the afternoon the patient became drowsy, and was delirious in the night. She died on the following day ; death was preceded by increased drowsiness, gradual failure and acceleration of the pulse, and loss of the power of swallow- ing. Vomiting had ceased, and there were no signs of spasm or paralysis. The autopsy was performed on the same day; the following appearances were recorded:—Body well nourished ; cutaneous surface generally dusky, and exhibiting numerous patches of livid discoloration, in some parts distinctly jaundiced ; rigor mortis absent; subcutaneous cellular tissue moderateiy rich in fat. Muscles well developed, muscular sub- stance pale; numerous recent haemorrhages between the rihs and muscles, particularly of the lower part of the chest. Cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum markedly jaundiced; sanguinolent fluid in both pleural cavities (5J in the right, 51V in the left); numerous haemorrhages under the costal pleura), a few under the pulmonary; no adhesions. Lungs everywhere pervious to air, hyperamiic at bases, but containing little blood in the upper lobes ; 5J of yellowish, clear fluid in