OCCUPATIONS. 495 half of the cases of sickness are of syphilitic and cutaneous diseases and external injuries, neither of ■which groups contribute materially to the mortality. Of the admissions into hospital from the army in the United Kingdom, nearly half are due to syphilis, so that the inefficiency arising from this cause amounts to the annual loss of service of three entire regi- ments. The diseases which cause the greatest amount of mortality among our soldiers and sailors are fevers, alvine fluxes, and affections of the respiratory organs. As regards fevers, it is strikingly evident, from various facts related by the author, that their prevalence is mainly dependent on the overcrowding and impurity of the ships and barracks. As regards alvine flux, the worst station is that of China, one half of the deaths among the garrison of Hong Kong being caused by diarrhoea and dysentery. On the home station the respiratory diseases occasion more admissions into hospitals than all fevers and alvine fluxes together, and more than three times as many deaths; but this difference between the stations disappears when the respiratory mortality (of which four fifths is from phthisis) is compared with the effective strength. Thus it appears that the respiratory death-rate is as great on the West Indian station as at home. This fact the author attributes to the still overcrowded state of the barracks and the between-decks of ships of war. McWilliam.—On the Health of Merchant Seamen. London, 8vo, pp. to. The statistical tables which form the basis of this paper show that while in the navy the mortality of sailors employed on the home station does not exceed eleven per thousand, the corresponding proportion among merchant seamen serving on home voyages is twenty-four per thousand, and that the annual number of deaths on board merchant ships of all classes during eight years preceding i860, whether on home or foreign voyages, was twenty per thousand. This heavy death-rate, the author connects with the crowded and airless condition of the sleeping-berths, the foulness of the cabins, and the fact that many trading vessels are sent to sea insufficiently provided with medical and other comforts and with prophylactic medicines. Rose.—Medical and Topographical Notes on China. Lancet, June 14th. This paper relates to the sanitary condition of the navy and mercantile marine at Shanghai, and particularly to the prevalence of dysentery. Among the causes of the unhealtliiness of the port, he refers to the use of the water of the river, which reaches the town loaded with organic im- purity, and becomes still more foul by the addition of the excrements of an immense population ; to the dampness of the ships, arising from the improper practice of daily saturating the decks with water; to the con- tamination of the air between decks by the emanations from bilge-water • and to the unnecessary exposure of the men to the sun in the hot season', fie recommends the exclusive use of distilled water on board ship the substitution of dry rubbing for scouring, the covering of the bikes'with galvanized zinc, and the employment of double awnings.