REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. sea he had in his recent cases simply pulled the body out, without paying any special attention to the arms, which are usually thrown upwards and come down easily with the head, lie had observed that many of his patient were subject to a slight degree of intestinal catarrh a few days after delivery, most frequently in winter, when almost one half of the number became affected. On the whole, he had found his practice attended with less mortality than occurred in previous practice ; there had been only one fatal case since he had had recourse to turning in all cases, and that was from rheumatic disease of the heart. Post-partum hemorrhage occurred more frequently, but he had not seen it occur in a fatal degree. He usually gave ergot immediately after birth of the child, and frequently an opiate suppository was placed in the rectum. •CESAREAN SECTION. Dyce, Dr.—Case of Cesarean Section. Ed. Med. Journ., April 1862 p. 895. The patient, set. 23, was four feet high, and at the full period of ges- tation. During two days labour-pains were slight, and then the waters escaped. For two days following she was pretty well. After this the pains returned—four days after first signs of labour—and were for a few hours regular. At night she had an opiate. The next day Dr. Dyce was called to see her. The sacral promontory was like a large tumour, in the centre of the vagina, the head was felt up behind the os pubis. Turning was resolved on. The hand was with difficulty passed through the brim as far as the abdomen of the child, but could not be got further, owing to contraction of the uterus. Craniotomy was then performed, and all the skull, except the base £lnd part of the occipital bone, brought gradually away. An attempt was now made to change the position and bring the face through, but this failed. The Cesarean section was resolved on and performed. There was no haemorrhage, but a little meconium escaped into the uterus. She died forty-three hours after the operation. Vomiting had continued almost unchecked after the operation. The pelvis measured at brim, antero-posterior diameter, 2 inches ; transversely, 4-^- inches; obliquely, 4-i-; depth of pubis, iJ-inch; depth from promontory to point of coccyx, 4!inches. At outlet, space between tuberosities of ischium measured 31 inches ; from arch of pubis to point of coccyx, 3I inches ; from brim of pelvis to lowest point of ischium, 3 inches. Joiinson, Dr. Datid.—Case of Preternatural and Difficult Labour fol- lowed by the Cesarean Section. Lancet, Nov. 1st, 1862. The patient, set. 17, had been very rickety when a child. "When first seen had been in labour twelve hours, the pains had ceased, she was depressed and restless. The right hand and eight inches of cord were found lying in the vagina, and a little higher up both feet could be felt. High up beyond the brim the head could be felt, but there was little space. Attempts to pull the feet down and extract failed ; the brim appeared to be only two and a half inches in diameter. Cranio- tomy was performed, the brain evacuated, but further attempts to