259 FRACTURES. tissue, even in cases where there had been little reason for suspecting any organic change. I believe, that by practice, not only the degree of soli- dity of the bone, but also many qualitative changes and degenerations, may be made out in this simple and innocent manner." Dr. Lorinser has issued a series of papers on inflammation of bone (' Wien. Wchns.,' 1862, pp. 401, 417, &c.), which among other matters contain (p. 629) an account of researches on the chemical constitution of the urine, pus, and bone-tissue in these cases. Professor Linhart records three cases of abscess in the medullary canal of tubular bones ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1862, pp. 183, 195, 211). Mr. Cooper publishes a case of recovery, from scooping a portion of the tibia, for disease of twenty-four years' standing ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1862, i, ,347). A case of necrosis of the scapula is to be found in the 'Gaz. Hebd.' (i862,p. 109, from the 'Medical and Surgical Reporter,' Philad.) ; another of extensive death of the femur is reported by Mr. Butcher, in the 'Dub. Quart. Journ.' (xxxiii, 14). A case in which there were sixty-five exos- toses is published by Dr. Ebert ('Deuts. Klin.,' 1862, p. 91), and ano- ther under Mr. Barwell, in which there were thirty-eight, in the 'Lancet,' (1861, ii, 446.) Professor Schuh has published a case in which a cavern- ous tumour occurred in the metacarpal bone of the little finger ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1862, p. 107). Dr. Duncan has published in a separate form (from the ' Edin. Med. Journ.') his translation of Litzmann 'On Osteomalacia' (Edinburgh, Oliver and Boyd): we note also—W. C. M'lntosh, mollities ossium in insanity ('Edin. Med. Journ.,'viii, 139), and R. Barnes, case of osteomalacia ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,' xlv, 63). Finally, Mr. Humphry has published a paper on the influence of para- lysis, disease of the joints, disease of the epiphysial lines, excision of the knee, rickets, and some other morbid conditions, upon the growth of the bones ('Mcd.-Chir. Trans.,' xlv, 283). FRACTURES. The first or general portion of Gurlt's treatise (Berlin, Hirschwald) has been concluded. Dr. Little describes a simple method of applying plaster of Paris splints ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1861, ii, 367) which he exemplifies by its mode of application to the leg, as follows :—the limb is first shaven or slightly oiled ; a piece of old, coarse, washed muslin is next selected of such a size that when folded about four thicknesses it is wide enough to envelope more than half of the circumference of the limb, and long enough to extend from a little below the under surface of the knee to about five inches below the heel. The solution of plaster is then to be prepared. Fine, well-dried, white plaster had better be selected, and before using, a small portion should be mixed with water in a spoon and allowed "to set," with a view of ascertaining the length of time requisite for that process. If it is over five minutes, a small quan- tity of common salt had better be dissolved in the water before aiding the plaster. The more salt added, the sooner will the plaster "set." If delay be necessary, the addition of a few drops of carpenter's giue of mucilage will subserve that end. Equal parts of water and plaster are the best proportion. The plaster is sprinkled in the water and gradually mixed with it. The cloth, unfolded, is then immersed in the solution,