500 REPORT OX . PUBLIC HEALTH. extensible, quite opaque, and scarcely at all elastic, and sink in Mater. Good vulcanite is semi-transparent,'of a brown colour by transmitted ligbt, and very elastic. Many children have suffered in Berlin from the use of nipples containing metallic poisons. PREVENTION OP DISEASES. Reinharu.—On the Influence of Marshy Countries on the Mean Duration of Life. Pappenheim, Part II, p. 10, 1862. The district, on the statistics of which these researches are founded, is situated on the northern boundary of Saxony, immediately to the north of Bautzen. It forms the commencement to the great plain which extends northwards and eastwards from the mountain-ranges of Saxony to the sea. It is watered by several sluggish rivers, particularly the two branches of the Spree, and is subject to frequent inundations, which happen twice a year, after the melting of the snow in the mountains, and in the middle of summer. There are numerous ponds for carp, the breeding of which constitutes an important source of revenue. In some parts the land is kept covered with water and dry, for alter- nating periods of several years, being valuable in the one condition for the breeding of carp, in the other for the purposes of agriculture. The district comprises twenty-four villages, and is inhabited by 4814 persons. It has been subject to ague from time immemori.il, and to occasional epidemics of continued fever. For the purpose of comparison, the author has selected a similar district in the adjoining mountainous country around Bautzen. His results are as follows:—The annual mor- tality from all causes is 21 '8 on the hills, 29-8 in the plain ; but as regards the mean duration of life no such contrast is observable. It is 31*1 years in the hill-country, and 30*6 years in the marsh. By further inquiries it appears, that this apparent equality is owing to the fact, that although adults, and particularly persons in middle life, are unfavorably affected by malaria, the infantile mortality is greater on the hills than in the plain. This is shown by estimating the mean duration of life after the exclusion of those lives which terminate before the close of the first year. In the valleys the result is 4/'5 years, on the hills 44\5- After the ex- clusion of lives ending before the twentieth year, the remainder last in the valleys 59*6 years, on the hills 62*1 years, so that the difference is about the same as in the other case. It thus appears that, by the influence of the mala- rious poison, each individual on arriving at maturity is deprived of about three years of life, besides the loss which he sustains by the impairment of his physical vigour. The relation between the births and the population exemplifies the general observation that the birth-rate usually increases with the death-rate. While in the hill-country the birth-rate was 31-1, it was 38-2 in the marsh; but the difference was not in proportion to the difference of mortality, for in the former case the rate of births to deaths was 1-147, in tlie 'atter ri28- M- Reinhnrd is of opinion that the facts may be accounted for by referring them to the difference of con- stitution as regards age of the populations of the two districts. That, in this instance, the high birth-rate does not imply greater fecundity is conclusively shown by the comparison of the number of legitimate chil-