I OS KEPOKT ON PRACTICAL MKIHCIXK. inch of the hifurcation by effused blood. The heart was hyperthropic, but sound, the aorta very narrow, and thin-walled, but free from atheroma. Bantock, G. G.—Edin. Med. J., Aug. 1862. Eecords a case of abdominal aneurism where the only symptoms were severe Lumbar pain attended with nausea. Death occurred suddenly, and on post-mortem examination, an aneurism was found at the upper part of the abdominal aorta, which had eroded the bodies of the last dorsal, and two upper lumbar, vertebra?. Between two and three pounds of blood were effused into the abdominal cavity. Pigeolet and Max.—J. de Brux., xxxiv, Jan. 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 302. Becord a case of thickening, redness, and ulceration of the coats of the aorta just above the sigmoid valves. The same alterations were found also lower down. Beau.—On Tobacco as a Cause of Angina Pectoris. J. de Med. et de Chir. pratique, July, 1862. Edin. Med. J., Aug., 1862. Bernard has proved that nicotine produces its principal effects upon the nerves, upon the muscles, but especially on the vascular system. In a moderately strong dose, this substance produces in the muscles convulsive movements, which may teraiinate in a permanently tetanic condition; whilst, if the dose is small, the first effects are produced upon the heart and lungs, giving rise to acceleration of the respiration, and increased energy of the pulsations. A clear proof that the nerves are the organs of trans- mission of this complicated action is, that, after the division of the pneumo- gastric, none of these phenomena are manifested. It is important to add, that the action upon the muscular system is produced exclusively when the nicotine is pure, and in sufficient quantity; whilst, if it is diluted or mixed, it acts specially upon the respiratory apparatus and the heart. Beau, of course, only regards tobacco as one of the causes of angina, and believes that for the production of this affection among smokers several conditions are required, as (1) the excessive use of tobacco; (2) a special susceptibility of the individual; (3) debilitating influences, such as anxiety, fatigue, weak digestion, which, preventing the organism from getting rid of the tobacco absorbed, allow it to accumulate to such a degree, that nicotine is present in sufficient quantity to produce its poisonous influence upon the heart. Beau relates eight cases in evidence, two fatal. He considers angina pectoris not as a mere neuralgia of the heart, but as essentially associated with an intense and intermitting asystolia, or defective contraction of the ventricles. For this he considers digitalis to be the best remedy, which, according to him, is not a sedative of the heart, but a strengthener and excitant. It acts very favourably in cases of dilated hypertrophy, with enfeebled muscular tissue and consecutive venous engorgement. Johnson, G.—Clinical Lecture on Cases of Thoracic Aneurism. Med. T. and Gaz., March 15th. After commenting on the histories of two cas*es, Johnson proceeds to detail one in which the patient, who died at the age of sixty-nine, had