307 ABDOMEN. the -,th February, he was admitted into Val-de-Grace; and on the next morning the following symptoms were found :—constant, severe pain in the lumbar region, radiating spontaneously, or on the slightest movement, towards the inner side of the right thigh; the latter flexed on the pelvis to a right angle; volume and resonance of the abdomen normal; pressure upon any part of the belly causes pain in the right loin ; the suffering is intolerable on compression with the two hands, one being placed behind the sacro-spinal muscles, the other on the anterior wall of the abdomen; palpation performed in this way does not show any swelling or engorge- ment. Complete absence of fever, complexion bilious, tongue whitish. He was ordered fifteen leeches, and a hip-bath. Next day the leeches were repeated, and the baths were ordered to be continued daily ; the pain diminished a little ; the crest of the ilium was noticed to be gradually approaching towards the right hypochondrium, so that the trunk was bent laterally; this attitude, together with the position of the thigh, impressed upon all the movements of the patient in locomotion a peculiar character, such as is habitually observed in psoas abscess. The pain having diminished, some engorgement was recognised deep behind the intestines in the right loin. Sixteen days later, on the 22nd of February, without any apparent reason, nausea and swelling of the belly occurred; they, however, disappeared again during the night, after numerous eructations. The same symptoms recurred on the 24th, and continued throughout the night; at the visit next day, we found considerable tympanitis, dyspnoea, a slightly jaundiced tint of the whole of the body, and increased sensibility of the abdomen. From this time the constipation was more obstinate ; the patient frequently regurgitated slimy matters; there were occasional slight shiverings. From the 24th of February to the 15th of March, the patient remained in much the same state; he became, however, much weaker, and as much from this reason as on account of the lumbar pain, he remained constantly in bed. During the whole of this time, a daily and very careful examination did not detect the presence of any tumour, either above the crest of the ilium, or below the crural arch; methodical and cautious palpation merely showed the persistence of engorgement deep in the iliac fossa. On the 15th of March, after the administration of a purgative enema, there were pretty severe colicky pains in the abdomen and several copious light- coloured motions, the last of which were almost exclusively composed of pus; the evacuations presented this character for several days, the appetite and sleep gradually returned, and at the same time the lumbar pain decidedly diminished. After the 20th, the patient walked more easily than he had been able to do since the beginning of his illness. On the 25th the pain had abated so much, that it was scarcely recalled by pressing the loin from behind forwards, between the two hands,—a mode of examination, which proved the absence of all engorgement, of all ab- normal resistance. The gastric symptoms and the constipation entirely subsided; and the patient was discharged on the 29th, walking erect and easily, although there was still a considerable approximation between the right iliac crest and the false ribs. The sub-aponeurotic seat of the abscess was well indicated in this case by the following circumstances :— 1 st, the commencement of the complaint in a sudden and violent move-