TETANUS. 219 ment till 6.55 a.m., when it was 42-4°; from that time it slowly decreased. A few hours before death albumen showed itself for the first time in the urine, and a very few pale casts and blood-corpuscles. Professor Wagner found, by a microscopical examination of the spinal cord, the changes in its connective tissue which have been described by Rokitansky. A case treated by large quantities of alcohol recovered (Dr. Hutchinson, in 'Dub. Med. Press,' and 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 410). Other cases of recovery are reported by Dr. F. J. Brown ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 435); by Mr. F. A. Bulley, who, amongst other treatment, had recourse to the method of A. Pare; a thick pad of coarse house flan- nel, several times folded, and wrung out of very hot water, was laid over the pit of the stomach; the body was then enveloped in six or seven blan- kets ; after a short time copious diaphoresis was induced, in which he was allowed to remain for four or five hours, when the blankets were carefully and gradually removed. In a case of amputation under M. Chenevier ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' i86i,p. 473) the tetanus was apparently cured by chloro- form ; it recurred, however, twenty-five days later, after a serious attack of secondary haemorrhage, and death finally ensued. A case was treated successfully by Mr. Coulson with chloroform and aconite ('Lan.,' 1862, ii, 255). Mr. Playfair has found that ice applied to the spine, at intervals of four to five hours, has a remarkable effect in diminishing the intensity of the spasms; he reports two cases of recovery (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 132). M. Broca used subcutaneous injections of curare in a case unsuccessfully (c Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 195). Dr. Gherini treated a case successfully by subcutaneous injections of curare (gr. 2 dissolved in a drachm of water) ; he remarks that the symptoms of its action on the organism appear with great rapidity—two, three, or, at the latest, four minutes after the injection—and that it does not continue to act for more than half an hour. He recommends the injections to be repeated every or every second hour. The dose of the curare in each injection may vary from gr. i to gr. j, and should depend on the age, sex, and constitution ('Gaz. Med. Ital.,' and 'Med. Chir. Rundsch.,' 1862, ii, 27). Velpeau ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1861, p. 170) treated a case with chloroform, opium, and curare; the latter was injected subcutaneously in the dose of gr. -oi (= gr. '15 Eng.) every two hours, but without effect; gr. -06 (=r gr. -93 Eng.) was the total amount injected; he states that curare has been tried twelve times in France, and that there has been only one success, in a somewhat doubtful case. A fatal case of trismus (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' i8'62, P- 334) was treated with belladonna by M. Demarquay, who states that he has successfully treated several cases with that medicine in large doses ; he recommends also subcutaneous injections of atropin. sulph. According to him, Sagre, of New York ('New York Journal of Med.,' March, 1858, p. 2 52), was the first to use curare in this disease. Professor Langenbeck treated a case unsuccessfully with injections of curare ; he has appended three cases, which are in opposition to the idea of blood poisoning and which appear to show that tetanus is a local nervous affection. In the first case Langenbeck removed by an incision a fragment of a needle • the symptoms immediately lessened, and next day the patient was well ' In the second, a case of castration, the spermatic cord had been ligatured en masse, the removal of the ligature at once stopped all the symptoms;