REPORT ON SURGERY. 208 with one finger in the rectum and another placed over the tumour in the perinocum, as this was the only certain means of detecting fluctuation ; and that if the presence of matter was then ascertained, an incision, deep if necessary, should be made in the centre of the perinDeum. This in- cision should be made early, otherwise most serious and troublesome effects will result, by the formation of fistulous communications with the urethra, rectum, and the tissues around the perinaeum. On the treatment of pelvic abscess {perimetritic), by W. Itoser, ('Arch, d. Heilk.,' 1862, p. 282).—These abscesses are most frequently seated in the cellular tissue of the broad ligaments of the uterus; they then appear as painful inflammatory swellings just above Poupart's ligament, and most often make their way along the femoral artery, in the track of a psoas abscess. This course, often followed by nature to the great benefit of the patient, may be imitated by art; Poupart's ligament is laid bare near the femoral artery, and by the introduction of a director or dressing forceps into the femoral ring, with a little forcible extension by opening the forceps, an aperture is made for the pus. No further treatment than, perhaps, the occasional introduction of an elastic catheter, is usually re- quired. Roser states that he has repeatedly described, and for more than ten years practised, this method of opening deep-seated abscesses in every part of the body. Erysipelas.—M. Cornil treats at length on erysipelas of the pharynx ♦ ('Arch. Gen.,' 1862, i, 257); he describes three forms, one with simple redness, one with phlyctense, and one ending in gangrene. ULCEUS. Dr. Liicke publishes a case of ulceration, which he attributes to the dis- integration of fibro-plastic tissue; he thinks'some cases of rodent ulcer may be owing to this cause (Virchow's ' Archiv,' vol. xxiv). Mr. Houghton ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, vol. i, pp. 91, 129) can, from four years' constant experience, speak confidently of the importance of Mr. Hunt's method of treating varicose ulcers without rest. He generally applies a few strips of soap-plaster to the ulcer, and then a flannel bandage from the foot upwards. The advantages of flannel over calico for the bandage are, that it is sufficiently elastic to give uniform support and sufficiently rough on the surface to prevent it from slipping and getting displaced. Mr. Houghton has known the roller, when well applied, remain three weeks without moving, the patient having neglected to attend during that period. He cautions, however, the patient to sleep with a thin stocking over the roller, as otherwise it gets kicked off in bed. He has recently found that domette has some advantages over flannel. It is much lighter, it is equally tenacious, it is sufficiently strong and elastic, and, what is of some consequence, it is about a quarter the price. It has been previously recommended by Messrs. Spender and Startin. The roller should be accurately made, and in one piece. Mr. Houghton gets eight yards of domette, and has it washed ; he then cuts the rollers himself, measuring the widtli of each accurately with a rule ; they should be two and a half inches wide. He gives in corroboration four cases, one of which might be regarded as au experimentutn crucis. A large varicose