JlEPOItT ON SUltGERY. 234 3. The milder the first attack of syphilis, the more distant its date from the time of the second introduction of the virus, and the more energetic the virus applied on the second occasion (that is, drawn from a con- genital or primary, rather than from a secondary lesion), the more severe will be the second attack of syphilis ; and vice versd. 4. Experience, in agreement with reason, shows, that the only subjects, in whom the second introduction of syphilitic virus has produced any pathological effect, are those who have been cured of their first attack of syphilis, or who, at least, only present such symptoms as are not transmissible by generation or contact (tertiary symptoms). K. As to the phenomena produced by the second introduction of the virus, effected under these conditions, observation shows, that they are variable, and that they consist.—(a) In more than one half of the cases, in an ulcer having all the characters of an indurated chancre, except that it is not accompanied by an enlargement and induration of the lymphatic glands. This ulcer is not followed by secondary symptoms ; and thus the absence of glandular affection enables the physician to recognise beforehand the indurated chancres, which will not be followed by constitutional symptoms.* (b) In more than one fourth of the cases, in an indurated chancre followed by constitutional symptoms less severe than those of the first attack of syphilis, (c) In less than one eighth of the cases, in. an indurated chancre followed by second- ary symptoms more intense than those of the first attack of syphilis. (d) In less than one eighth of the cases (in which the first syphilis had only been characterised by an indurated chancre without secondary symptoms), in an indurated chancre followed by only slight constitutional symptoms. 6. As regards the period of time between the dates-of the two infections, it was found that the shorter the interval, the feebler were the effects resulting from the second infection. The interval was shortest in those secondary cases in which there was 'only a chancre, and longest in those in which the syphilis was more severe in the second than in the first attack. 7. The impossibility of inoculating syphilis in a man, who is suffering from syphilis, is a very certain fact. This result, proved by experiment, is not, however, opposed to the possibility of the reinfection of a man who has had syphilis. On the contrary, it demonstrates the possibility, by affording the strongest presumption, that can be furnished in pathology, by a difference in the effects to be accounted for by a difference in the causes. 8. Twenty examples of reinfection, observed by M. Diday in his own practice in six years, give an idea of the frequency of such cases. Although these facts appear new, they would long since have been well known, had not practitioners allowed themselves to be blinded by doctrines, which, though true in most, are not absolutely so in all cases. 9. The reinfection of a man, who has had syphilis, shows that he has been cured of it; and from this theorem three practical corollaries result:—(a) It proves that syphilis may be radically cured, a fact denied by many authors, (b) It gives a measure of the time, which is ordinarily necessary for its radical cure ; according to Diday's observations, the mean minimum time is tw.enty-two months, (c) It gives the best criterion for the certainty of the cure ; thus, for example, when a man, who has had * Such chancres are called hy M. Diday " chancroYdcs," a name employed by others for soft sores; the latter are denominated by the same writer c/iancrelles.—T. W.