200 REPORT ON SURGERY. M. N61aton relates a case of incontinence of faeces in consequence of a burn ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1861, ii, 414). In the region of the anus there was a hole, with resisting edges, placed in the centre of a cicatrix. When the finger was introduced, the opening was found to be inert, and the finger passed into a cavity containing faecal matter. This cavity was not that of the rectum, but an accidental vestibule ; and the true anus, with its sphincter, was found lying above the apparent one. He recom- mends in such cases to lay open the false anus. Dr. Gibb relates a case in which the belly was so enormously distended from the effects of a burn, that the abdomen was opened as soon as life had ceased, under the sup- position of pregnancy (' Trans. Loud. Path. Soc.,' xiii, 98). Plastic Operations for Cicatrices of Burns. "R- P—, set. 17, burnt the anterior part of the arm when a child ; the result was a large web of cicatrix extending from just below the shoulder- joint to the lower part of the forearm. He could extend his fore- arm so that the elbow made an angle of 900. The new tissue was so wide that I did not divide it at once, but made a hole through it, and after dissecting up a long flap from the outer part of the forearm, I passed it through the aperture I had made, and attached it to the edge of the hole by many sutures. The flap united in a great part of its extent and when it became tolerably adherent I divided the rest of the cicatrix, and it healed satisfactorily. The boy could extend his elbow-joint, when he went out, to an angle of 1350 ; and as the flap was stretching favor- ably, there was every prospect of further improvement." (Mr. Prichard, 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 358.) Mr. Butcher has published a new method of treating cicatrices ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' xxxiii, p. 1), which he illustrates by a case in which the head was drawn towards the shoulder by a large cicatrix. A curved incision was carried along the shoulder for a considerable distance around the cicatrix, but in healthy integument, and the flap was then dissected upwards. The relief being insufficient, Mr. Butcher introduced a long, narrow-bladed, straight bistoury through the tissue of the cicatrix, at the base of the flap, and thrust it upwards, subcutaneously along a prominent band. "As the instrument was forced upwards, great precaution was used to prevent its point injuring the integument in the long track of from four to five inches ; the instrument being introduced upon the flat, its edge was now made to cut down freely from the integument the cica- trical tissue by cautious, gentle movements. This being extensively ami effectually done on the posterior side of the prominent ridge, the edge of the bistoury was then turned anteriorly, and a similar manipulation carried on. The edge of the instrument was next turned directly backwards, and the cicatrical tissue scored freely, by repeated incisions from before back- wards and above downwards, throughout its entire extent. To facilitate and render more guarded and certain the action of the bistoury, the index finger of my left hand, placed outside the integuments, followed it no hesitation in stilting our belief that life would be generally prolonged, and not un- frequently saved, were ibis treatment generally adopted in severe scalds and burns.— T. W.