REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 491 in the preparation of sheepskins, in the winding of silk from the cocoon, in shelling pease, in the manufacture of mother-of-pearl, &c. The paper is illustrated by life-like chromo-lithographs. Eulenberg.—On the Diseases of Stonecutters and Masons. Pappenheim, part iv, p. 56. This inquiry is based on the mortality and diseases of persons following these occupations, recorded at Cologne during a period of twenty years. As the number of persons employed in each year was known, the results are comparable with other statistics. The mean annual mortality from phthisis during the period was 28 per 1000, and from all other diseases 29-6, so that the deaths from consumption constituted 91 per cent, of the whole number. The average duration of life is thirty-seven years. As there is no doubt that the excessive pulmonary mortality arises from the inhalation of dust, the only effectual preventive measures are such as act by intercepting its entrance into the air-passages. With this view the author emphatically recommends a mask of his own contrivance, which protects the mouth and nostrils. It consists of a frame of wire- work, covered with gauze. Milroy.—The Health of the Army and Navy compared with each other. Trans. Ass. Soc. Sc., 1862, p. 547. In most of the circumstances and conditions which affect health, such as age, food, clothing, and medical care, the occupations of the soldier and the sailor resemble each other. There are, however, several points of circumstantial difference between them, which must influence the results of a comparison of their state of health. To two of these the author refers, viz., the difference in the duration of service (the engagement of the sailor being for periods which never exceed five years, whereas the soldier enlists for ten or twelve years), and the fact that the sailor is more exposed than the soldier to various injuries and accidents {e.g. drowning), which materially influence the death-rates. The present paper is founded on the comparison of naval and military statistical returns relating to the home, the Mediterranean, the West Indian, the Australian, the East Indian, and China stations. To determine the state of health of the army and navy, the amount of all the deductions or losses caused by sickness or injury from the effective strength of our troops and ships' crews must be ascertained. These losses are either temporary (average daily propor- tion of men on the sick list and annual number of admissions into hospital) or permanent (annual number of men dying or invalided). A comparison of the two services, in respect of these particulars, shows that the daily sick-rates per thousand on the home, Mediterranean, West Indian, Australian, and East Indian stations, were severally 50, 48, 53, 27, and 99, in the army, and 50, 52, 58, 46, and 93, in the navy; that the annual death rates stated in the same order were, 8, 13, 17, 10, and 47, in the army, and 10, 10, 24, 10, and 47 in the navy. The annual invaliding rates were, 13, 8, 5, 9, and 27, in the army, and 23, 24, 25, 39, and 52, in the navy. From the numbers last quoted it appears that the invaliding rate is twice or thrice as high in the navy as in the army. The causes of sickness and mortality are much alike in the two services ;