RKS1URATORY SY.STKM. letting, not, however, believing that it has any direct influence on the inflammatory process, but that, by diminishing the mass of the blood, it enables the remaining quantity both to be better aerated and to circulate more freely than it could do otherwise. There were 683 tuberculous patients (379 males, and 304 females), 421 died (230 males, and 191 females); the lungs were diseased in 621 cases primarily, and only in 8 instances was the morbid process confined to other organs, as the bones and skin. Together with the lungs the intestine was involved 123 times, the absorbent glands 55, the peritoneum 20, and the larynx 19. Banks, J. T., M.D.—Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., May 1862. Eecords a case of empyema in which the use of the drainage tube was of very great advantage. He had previously been tapped seven times. Amphoric respiration, voice, and cough were present, although there was no communication between the pleural cavity and the bronchi. Sedgwick, L. W., M.D.—Lancet, July 21st. Records two cases of empyema in which thoracentesis was performed with marked advantage. The first patient was tapped twice and regained a very fair state of health for four or five years. The second was a case of phthisis, but was so far relieved by the operation that recovery appeared possible, wheu he was cut off by influenza. Thorp, H.—Pleuritic Effusions, viewed in Relation to Thoracentesis; with an Account of Two Cases in which the Operation was successfully performed. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Aug. 1862. Thorp considers the quality of the effused fluid to constitute a point of paramount importance in reference to thoracentesis. He points out that purulent effusions tend to the surface, and are discharged either externally or into a bronchus, while serous effusions are either directly absorbed, or first converted into purulent matter, if they are evacuated in the modes just mentioned. He further remarks, that spontaneous openings in cases of empyema generally occur anteriorly and high up, and shows that the following advantages result from this position :—by the liquid contents being caused to proceed from below upwards the sudden evacuation of the cavity is prevented (and the consequent entrance and imprisonment of atmospheric air in proportionate volume) ; the suppurating sac is enqjtied gradually by its own contraction, and the air, which can only enter in small quantity, has free egress, being ahvays uppermost, and in close proximity with the discharging orifice. We should, therefore, in conformity with these principles, not open the chest in a depending position; for if, un- fortunately, afterwards putrefactive changes take place, the septic gases floating above the other contents have no exit, are absorbed by the lining membrane of the cavity, excite inflammation of the latter, contaminate the blood,, and produce typhoid symptoms. The position he recommends is between the fourth and fifth ribs anteriorly. Constant drainage of the abscess may be provided for by the introduction of one of Chassaignac's tubes. In cases of hydrothorax, or non-purulent effusions, there is no need to deviate from the spot usually selected for thoracentesis, but the