OJiNKRAL SYSTEM. 49 Garden.—On the Therapeutic Uses of Anarcotine (plim Narcotine). Lancet, Jan. 11. Anarcotine is obtained from the residue of opium left after separation of the morphia. It is white, inodorous, crystalline, insipid, but forms salts with the mineral acids of very bitter taste. In small doses, J-j. gr., it arts as a tonic, in larger doses, up to three or six grains, at suitable intervals it is very efficacious in arresting periodic fevers. It increases the heart's action and renders the pulse somewhat fuller, and in still larger doses (five to fifteen grains) it causes increased heat of surface and diapho- resis, aud sometimes nausea, giddiness, and vomiting. In several cases marked benefit has been obtained by combining it with Tr. Opii. Mauston, J. A.—On the Occurence of Aguish Diseases on Board Ship. Edin. Med. J., Feb. Marston gives two instances, in the first of which a whole crew, and in the second at least seven individuals, to all appearance contracted ague on board ship during a voyage. In both instances the patients had been healthy before embarkation, the places from whence they sailed were healthy, but they were exposed during the voyage to the exbalations from wet and drying wood. Quinine was curative in the second instance, the point is not mentioned in the account of the first. Almes.—Gaz. de Paris, 22, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 30. Prefers the use of arsenic to qidnine in all malarious fevers, except the pernicious; it acts more slowly than the latter, but much more enduringly, and cures both the splenic tumor and the cachexia. He gives the first day Pot. Arsenit. gr. §, and on the four succeeding days half as much. Macario.—Gaz. de Paris, 35—39, i860. Praises the efficacy of the cold douche in obstinate ague and its sequelae. Eeiz, C.— Cases of pernicious Ague.—Melancemia. Hosp. Tidende, 50, 51, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 35. The patient was a sailor, aat. 47, who had suffered from yellow fever in 1 the tropics eight years before. In the third paroxysm he became stnpified and comatose with profuse sweat, did not rally, had some severe convulsions, and died in coma about the time of the fourth paroxsym. The membranes ' of the brain, the choroid plexuses, and the whole encephalon were much con- gested, but normal. Some of the capillaries were obstructed with black \ pigment, there was none in the spleen or fiver. Lungs and kidneys con- 1 gested, but healthy. Reiz is inclined to regard the pigmentary deposit as the cause of the pernicious symptoms, but allows that this case does not afford much evidence in favour of this view. Modtard Martin; Sistach.—On the Physiological and Therapeutical Effects of Arsenious Acid. Ann. de Therap., 1862, p. no. They find it to be an excellent tonic improving the strength and in- creasing • the appetite. As long as fever continues it is tolerated to an amount which cannot be borne when the patient is apyretic, but produces 4