130 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINK. three cases which seem to show that pneumonia (sporadic) may be con- tagious, afl'ecting persons in close attendance on the sick. Skoda is con- vinced that some pneumonias arc the result of ague miasm, which remains latent in the system for some time, so that its effects, when they occur, are attributed to chill or errors in diet, which would of themselves have I "'en unfelt. Part II. treats of the " Special Pathology of Pneumonia." The view taken is, that the physical signs are inferior in value to those afforded by observation of the temperature, pulse, condition of the urine, and tendency to crisis. The latter may occur on any day of the disease, according to Metzger, but the 4th and 6th are the usual dates. The total amount of urine in twenty-four hours is diminished, but there are great daily varia- tion in different individuals. Its colour is always fiery-red, and its reac- tion acid. The urea amount is always increased, especially on the sixth day (the maximum), after which it gradually falls, even below the normal amount. The chlorides are always diminished during the existence of fever and exudation, but increased during absorption. Decrease of tem- perature precedes the falling of the pulse. On an average, the fourth is the day of minimum (maximum?) elevation; the decline begins on the fifth, becomes rapid and attended with critical phenomena on the seventh, and the minimum is reached on the ninth. The pulse is sometimes intermittent before it becomes slower. Herpetic eruption and sweating are also critical phenomena, and, like all such, are to be regarded not as the cause but as the consequences of a favourable change in the disease. The fever in the majority of cases was inflammatory, with regular course and evident crises. It was typhoid in twelve out of forty-eight cases, which were not instances of continued (typhus) fever. In two classes of cases it may be termed pyaemic. In one of these which does not so pro- perly belong to true pneumonia, the lung disease is secondary to ordinary pyeemia; in the other, primary pneumonia in a dyscrasic individual, as a drunkard, gives rise to pyaemia, by sanious decay of the exudation and its resorption from the lung. With regard to pneumonia of the apices of the lungs, Smoler adduces evidence to show that in young and robust indivi- duals it is not more perilous than pneumonia of the base or middle, and requires no special treatment. He admits, however, that it is more frequently followed by tuberculosis, and more often attended with adynamia, but explains these circumstances by the statement that pneu- monia of the apices chiefly occurs in persons advanced in life. Smoler states, that males who have suffered from pneumonia of the lower lobes retain subsequently the superior costal mode of breathing, while females who have had their apices inflamed continue afterwards to breathe with the diaphragm. With regard to pain, Smoler affirms that its presence or absence, its violence and its quality, have no prognostic import. He does not believe that herpes lab. occurring in pneumonia affords any Favourable prognosis; he explains away the evidence of the less mor- tality (9-3 : 29-3) by observing, that herpes occurs at an age when the mortality is naturally very small. Drasche's paper on " Tetanus in Pneu- monia" has been noticed in the last Year-Book. Jakscb and Kaulich point to the existence of aceton in the urine and the breath as the I