239 NERVES. joint, manipulation showed that the swelling so manifest to the eye was mere puffiness of the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue. The deep parts were not affected. This freedom from enlargement was most signi- ficant behind the malleoli; in which situation there is always considerable and deep enlargement in ankle-joint disease. The joint could be moved within certain limits and in a certain direction without pain ; thus, passively bending the foot upwards was painless, but any attempt to extend it (to point the toe) so as to put the anterior tendons on the stretch, could not be borne. I diagnosed the absence of joint disease, asserting that the case was one of suppuration in the anterior tendinous sheath. On August 16th, chloroform having been administered, I passed a grooved probe into the sinuses, and opened them entirely, being careful to leave no pas- sage, however small, unexposed. One vessel was tied, the wound was stuffed with lint, and a bandage applied. In a fortnight the patient could walk a little. On September 23rd, the wound having entirely healed, she left Richmond walking quite well, perfectly cured." NERVES. Mr. Paget, clinical lecture on a neuroma of the sciatic nerve (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 453 ; and 'Lancet,' 1862, i, 221) ; two cases of neuroma ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 454, 455). A. Verneuil has published a case of a disease, which he proposes to call plexiform cylindrical neuroma ('Arch. Gen.,' 1861, ii, 537) ; the patient, set. 41, had enjoyed good health to the age of 37, when pains at first slight and afterwards severe occurred in the end of the prepuce, and were followed by an eruption of herpes; two years later, micturition became painful and difficult, the urine thick ; severe pains in the loins also supervened. Civiale diagnosed inflammation of the neck of the bladder, absence of any calculus. Finally there occurred painful erections, seminal emissions at night followed by great increase of the pains in the prepuce and bladder, and after a time, loss of appetite, sleeplessness, and great mental depression. The penis was now almost constantly semi-erected; the patient held the end of the prepuce in his hand throughout the day, and had to take great precautions at night. On examination Verneuil found, that firm pressure on the end of the prepuce did not cause very acute suffering, but when he drew the end of his finger gently over it, the patient bounded back as if electrified, his face became red and covered with sweat, and he stated that gentle stroking of this part caused an indescribable sensation, which radiated to the perinaeum, bladder, scrotum, loins, and ultimately to every part of the body, provided the stroking was continued. Verneuil considered it to be a neuralgia dependent on some local change in the cutaneous nerves. Removal of the anterior half of the prepuce caused immediate improvement; the local symptoms almost entirely disappeared, the general condition rapidly improved. Verneuil found, in the part removed, with a low magnifying power a very rich nervous plexus, and with a higher power great thickening of the nervous filaments in this plexus. The membrane enveloping the filament was much developed, and besides this change, in many parts the primitive tubes were widely separated from one another, so that a filament, which