REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. [ IS destroyed. The patient died suddenly, having had no ailment till twenty- two days before death. Rsii, M. M.—Amer. Med. T., March 8th. llecords a case of cirrhosis of the liver occurring in a strictly temperate male who enjoyed uniformly good health, except a slight chronic diarrhoea, dating from a mild typhoid fever two years before his death. He was un- commonly active, and engaged in violent athletic exercise shortly before he was attacked with hamiatemesis, which recurred until he died. The liver scarcely presented anywhere three lines of normal structure between its nodules, yet the gall-bladder was filled with apparently healthy bile. The spleen was very much enlarged, and was double. The vasa brevia were replaced by two large vessels, admitting the thumb. The aorta was softened throughout its whole extent, but was not atheromatous. The stomach appeared quite healthy, except a rupture of the muscular and mucous coats opposite the insertion of the immense vasa brevia. Marten.—Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxiii, p. 181. Records a case of suppurative peritonitis, in which the pus escaped from an opening in the umbilicus, and continued to flow about a month. The patient, a girl aged ten years, recovered completely. Behier.—On the Treatment of Peritonitis by the continuous application of Cold to the Abdomen. L'Union Med., April 3rd, 1862. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July 1862. Behier employs caoutchouc bags filled with fragments of ice, and renewed every two hours. This application speedily removes the pain, and produces no bad symptoms, interfering neither with the lochia nor the milk. Of 801 confinements ice has been applied in 355; the symptoms were threatening, however, only in 68, and 39 died. Albebs.—Deutsche Klinik. 30, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 308. Describes a form of circumscribed peritonitis occurring in young persons. It tends to suppurate in its middle, and the pus sometimes spontaneously makes its way outwards. Vigorous antiphlogistic treatment is essential at the outset—leeches, mercurial inunction, purgatives, and diaphoretics. After the formation of a tumour, a pea-issue is to be made and kept open, until it is resorbed. Mischel.—Varges Ztschr. N.F.I. 5, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, Founds the diagnosis between apparent and actual intestinal perforation on the painlessness and less uniform distention of the abdomen in the first, and on the less amount of compression of the thoracic organs. Bulk ley, H. D.—Amer. Med. I., Feb, 1st. Records four cases of chronic dysentery and diarrhoea treated successfully by ten grain doses of ipecacuan, repeated once or twice with a fannaceottfl and gelatinous diet, excluding milk.