DISEASES OF "WOMEN. 371 room, and then became insensible. The reposition of the uterus was effected easily under chloroform. Recovery followed. Noeogebath, Dr.—Inversion of'the Uterus of thirteen years'1 standing, with a novel Method of Reduction. Amer. Med. Times, April 26th, 1862. The case was that of a Frenchwoman, and repeated unsuccessful attempts had been made previously to reduce the tumour. _ The uterus was nearly completely inverted, the sound passing half an inch inwards round the pedicle. The author succeeded in reducing it at one operation. He introduced the hand into the vagina, and made strong pressure against the tumour with [the hand and with a rectum bougie ; these attempts failed. He then altered his plan, and made pressure in such a manner that one corner of the uterus only was pressed upon, and the width of the part having to pass through the ring lessened. Perfect success followed this manipulation. He contends that this is a much better plan than making pressure directly and vertically up- wards against the centre of the tumour; and, further, that by the plan proposed we probably imitate the process, inverted, at least, by which the inversion is first brought about. Birnbattm.—Inversion of the Uterus of two years'1 standing; Reposition after three months' treatment. Mon. f. Greb., Sept., 1862. The patient, set. 22, had been delivered two years previously, the labour having been very easy, but very rapid; the placenta followed quickly, without hasmorrhage. On the fourth day afterwards a round tumour appeared externally, which was recognised as the inverted uterus, and pushed, back into the vagina, but not further reduced. The mother recovered from the effects of the labour, and suckled her child for a year. Severe menorrhagia now set in; the uterus was still inverted. When seen by the author subsequently, she was very ansemic; there was difficulty in defecation; a smooth, round, defined tumour occupied the vagina, attached above by a broadish pedicle, round which was felt a margin like that of the os uteri. The tumour itself interfered with the introduction of the sound by the side of this pedicle, in order to ascertain whether the tumour was an inversion of the uterus or a polypus. The os lay high, and in order to reach it more easily the tumour was drawn down by the hooked forceps. In so doing, the tu- mour changed in form. A considerable pulsation was felt in the edicle of the tumour, and the os uteri was more distinctly recognised. t was clearly an inversion of the uterus. An attempt was made to push back the fundus, but it did not succeed, and a like failure attended further efforts made with the whole hand in the vagina,'the patient being under chloroform. After the next menstrual period had passed over, pressure was made daily for a quarter of an hour together for four days, with the uterine sound, furnished with a rounded, padded head, against different parts of the surface of the tumour. Menstruation now inter- fered with further attempts for twenty-one days. A gum tampon, dis- tended with air, was kept in the vagina for some days, without result. The use of pressure by the bulbed sound was again resumed three