235 SYPHILIS. syphilis, is inoculated with matter from an indurated chancre, and the inoculation fails, the man is still under the influence of syphilis; but if the inoculation succeeds?-it is a suflicient proof that he is cured.* 10. The treatment of the second is that of the primary attack, except in one important particular:—as, in most cases (16 out of 28), the only effect of the reinfection, when left to itself, is to produce a chancre which is not followed by constitutional symptoms, the medical man, ■when he meets with a second chancre, should always wait until constitu- tional symptoms appear, before he prescribes mercury. M. Ricord, " Clinical Lecture on a Case of Naso-palatine Osteitis, with Destruction of the Soft Palate, caused by Hereditary Syphilis" (' Gaz. d. Hop.,'1862, p. 317).—The patient was a girl, set. 14 years, and the disease had made its appearance five months previously. Ricord gave an explanation somewhat to the following effect, of the cases, in which hereditary syphilis does not make its appearance till many years after birth. Syphilis in the adult, when subjected to no treatment, runs a pretty regular course ; when, however, it is interfered with by treatment, the order of the symptoms and the period at which it may reappear, become very uncertain ; thus in 1852, he saw a case of gummy tumour, in which the primary disease had been contracted in 1804, and about the same time another case in which it had been contracted at the time of the taking of the Bastile. Here- ditary syphilis, in like manner, ordinarily runs a certain course; but if the parents have undergone treatment before the birth of the child, the disease may run an anomalous course in the child, just as it is liable to do in the parents ; and just as tertiary symptoms may appear in the latter, without being preceded by secondaries, so in the former the disease may slumber for years and ultimately make its first appearance as an affection of the bones. He recommended in the present case, to remove the loose and diseased bone, to paint the ulcerations -with the pure tincture of iodine, to employ gargles of the tincture of iodine (4—5 grammes to 100 grammes of the vehicle); to give internally 01. Jec. Asell., Ferr. Iod., good diet, and especially the iodide of potassium in increasing doses. The following papers deserve quotation :—Dr. Kobner, experiments with diluted virus ('Deuts. Klin.,' 1861, No. 47); Professor Sigmund, "On Inoculation as a means of Diagnosis" (' Wien. Med. Wocheus.,' 1862, pp. 35.3. 385) ; M. Cusco in his clinical lectures rejects the view, that ulcera- tion is a necessary concomitant of the primary disease (' Gaz. d. Hop./ 1862, p. 253); Dr. Neumann, "On the Influence of Smallpox on the Course of Syphilis" ('Wien. Med. Wochens.,' 1862, p. <joo) ; B. Hill, " Foreign Opinions of the Nature of Syphilis" ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, n, p. 407, &c.); Professor Pellizari, successful inoculation of syphilitic blood ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 495) ; Dr. Anstie, case of infection by secondary Ryphilix—mucous tubercles on the mouth of the suckling causing indurated chancre on the breast of the nurse (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 534). On secondary syphilis.—~Dy. Anderson " On Syphilitic Psoriasis" (' Glasg. * Diday is inclined to think that this method might be employed in some cases of intended marriage ; if the patient has really had one attack of syphilis, the result of Ihc second inoculation will in all probability be none, or only a hard chancre without fur- ther inconvenience.