REPORT ON SURGERY. 248 Professor Gosselin, who compressed the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, I injected into the tumour ten drops of a solution of perchloride of iron at 250. After tliis single injection there was a remarkable change; indeed, in twenty-four hours the continuous blowing sound became inter- mittent. For ten days, the aneurism remained stationary, but after a second injection the pulsations completely disappeared, and the tumour vanished with them. It follows, that the method by coagulation must not be entirely rejected. But with our patient we must hesitate before applying it, hecause from the volume and position of the tumour, gangrene of the limb might unhappily follow the inflammation of the aneurismal sac. I come now to the chief means of treatment for aneurisms, I mean the ligature. Arterio-venous aneurisms have long been treated by the ligature, according to Anel's method; thus the ligature of the femoral in Scarpa's triangle for popliteal aneurism, and that of the brachial in the middle of the arm for those at the bend of the elbow. With regard to the results of the operation, we have three things to consider; 1st, the effects of the ligature upon the artery, at the very point of constriction; 2nd, its influence over the general circulation of the limb; 3rd, its effect on the aneurismal circulation, or in fact, the changes which occur in the cavity of the aneurism. a. We know that in the arterio-venous aneurism the coats of the artery undergo remarkable modifications; even the unaided eye perceives a singular dilatation of the vessel, so that its calibre becomes much greater than it was before the wound. This change reaches so high a point, that in a popliteal aneurism it may be found to extend to Scarpa's triangle. The walls of the artery are lax, and resemble'those of a vein ; it is said that the veins become arteriahzed, the reciprocal may also be admitted: now, a ligature cannot be suitably applied to an «utery which has suffered such a change of structure ; it comes away prematurely, and secondary haemorrhage is the result. Such is a first and indisputable danger. b. The results of experience are equally conclusive, as to the general circulation of the limb. We know perfectly well that these ligatures have an extreme tendency to produce gangrene of the distal parts. Many explanations of the fact have been given, but all may be reduced to the simple statement, that arterial and venous blood, mixed together, circulate in the artery. Let us take, for example, arterio-venous aneurism with the sac between the vessels, and let us suppose the ligature to be applied to any point whatever of the artery above the aneurismal sac. The circu- lation in all the lower part of the artery being interrupted, the collaterals dilate nnd convey the blood from a point above the ligature to another below. The circulation is thus restored, but the blood which arrives by this collateral channel has a tendency to pass in two directions, or in other words, to remount to the aneurism, and to descend lower: to gam, however, the lower part of the artery it must overcome the resistance offered by the capillary vessels; this it cannot effect, and thus it ascends, to empty itself into the aneurismal snc. This sac, offering no longer any tension, allows the venous blood to penetrate within and mingle with the arterial, and it is this mixture of the two which induces gangrene of the limb. According to the American statistics by Norris, ligature of the