REPORT ON SURGERY. 240 from its size would normally contain not less than forty to fifty primitive tubes, contained only n single one, surrounded by nn extremely thick covering. Verncuil notes, that where, as in corns, the cutaneous nerves nrc subjected to pressure, they become larger through thickening of the neurilemma, but the nerve-tubes rest in the centre without any appreciable change. Dr. II. V. Carter ('Trans. Path. Soc. Lond.,' xiii, 13), has described and figured a condition of the nerves in anaesthetic leprosy, which some- what resembles that found by Verneuil in the prepuce. C. E. Brown-Sequard states on the treatment of the remote or reflex effects of the irritation of a nerve that all, that is necessary in some cases, is to gain a few days to allow a wound to heal up. He proposes in such cases to lay bare the nerve above the wound, and drop sulphuric ether upon it. This operation, especially if repeated, will render the nerve, for many days, quite unable to transmit any irritation from the original wound (Holmes's ' Surgery,' iii, 893). He also cites three cases of deli- rium from local injuries of nerves (ib., p. 888). ARTERIES. Dr. J. Ehrmann on ligature of the carotid (pamphlet, Paris, Bailliere ; and 'Gaz. Hebd.,' 1861, p. 790; also report by M. Giraldes, ' Gaz. d. Hop.,' i86r, p. 491). Excluding cases of ligature of both carotids, the author has collected forty-two cases in which cerebral symptoms were presented ; thirty of these proved fatal. In two of the cases, where death was clearly caused by the sudden interruption of the cerebral circulation, a peculiar condition (pathological closure of the other carotid and of one vertebral) was found, which places them in a separate category. As to the rest, there occurred:—hemiplegia of the opp&site side to the ligature, 28; hemiplegia on the same side, 2; convulsions, 2; coma with or without delirium, 6; intense cephalalgia 011 the side corresponding to the ligature, 2. The total number of cases of ligature of one carotid was 187, and accordingly the per-centage was 22-4. If to these be added the cases of ligature of both carotids and those of the innominata, the total number amounts to 213, and that of the cases accompanied by cerebral symptoms to 47, the proportion remaining the same. In the production of these symptoms, the author attributes an important part to the size of the com- municating arteries of the circle of Willis: he examined these vessels in 120 cases, and found them so narrow in 19—20 per cent., as decidedly to account for interruption cf the cerebral circulation, when the carotid had been ligatured. In a caa.e of thyroidean tumour pressing on the left carotid, the patient had twice paralytic symptoms on the opposite side; the post-mortem examination showed a perfectly healthy brain, but the posterior communicating branch was filiform and the anterior communi- cating artery extremely narrow, so that the carotid was isolated from the other trunks. The author employs the same theory to explain the strange immunity from cerebral symptoms presented by ligature of both carotids, provided the two operations are separated by a sufficient interval. The innocuity of the first ligature is indeed owing to the presence of tolerably large communicating arteries, which afterwards probably dilate still more.