DISEASES OF WOMEN. 377 withdrawn, leaving the leaden tube in the cervical canal. It is stated that the plan of incising the os and cervix and maintaining the patency of the canal by this method has proved very successful. Meadows, Dr.—On Obstructive Dysmenorrhea, with the description of an Instrument for dividing the Cervix Uteri. Loud. Med. Eev., June, 1862. The author contends that the opinion held by some authorities, as to the ordinary narrow condition of the internal os uteri, and their conse- quent deduction that the use of dilators, &c, cannot be necessary, is inapplicable to the condition of things present in menstruation. He holds that the absence of apparent stricture after death is no proof of the condition of the parts during menstruation, and that the symptoms present in dysmenorrlioea point to the fact that there is not a sufficient outlet for the secreted fluid. The evidence of the uterine sound, used while menstruation is absent, is not always to be depended on, for it may be difficult to pass this instrument in cases where there is no menstrual suffering. The author has found very beneficial results from incising the cervix uteri in cases where symptoms present indicated obstructive dysmenorrlioea. The new instrument here described and used for the above purpose is provided with two narrow blades, one on each side, which are simultaneously protruded, and an incision made into the cervix on each side by moving a bolt in the handle ; the effect is that the upper part of the cervix is slightly, the lower part more deeply, divided. FIBROUS TUMOURS OP TnE UTERUS—POLYPI. Bit.vux, Prof.—On Expulsion of Uterine Polypi induced artificially, and their removal by the Qalvano-caustic. Wien. Med. Halle, 1861, P-49- Eight cases are related in which uterine polypi were removed by the galvano-caustic apparatus. In some of the cases the os uteri was dilated by means of sponge-tents, and uterine action induced, in order to bring the polypus into the vagina. Brown, I. Baker.—History of a Fibrous Tumour ivithin the Abdomen; Exploration by Abdominal Section ; Removal; Death after eighteen days ; Examination of the Tumour, and Autopsy. Lond. Med". Rev., Jan., 1862. The patient, aet. 34, had had a tumour growing in the abdomen for seven years, supposed to be a solid tumour of the ovary. On opening the abdomen it was found that the tumour was uterine. It was removed, together with a portion of the uterus, the mass removed weighing upwards of seven pounds. Death took place eighteen days after the operation. Kobel.—Sub-mucous Fibroid Tumour of the Uterus; Cure by Torsion Wiirt. Gorr. Bl., No. 42, 1862. The tumour, when removed, was almost the siz3 of a child's head 2.3^ centimetres in circumference and io1v- centi ire ties long. The