325 WORKS, PAPERS, ETC. In all these forceps cases, those of eclampsia excepted, ergot had heeu previously given. All the mothers survived; one ouly suffered from a slight attack of puerperal fever. Eclampsia was three times ohserved, twice in the progress of the lahour, once within half an hour after. Albumen was always present in the urine, and in quantity pro- portionate to the frequency and intensity of the attacks; fibrinous casts were also present. Inhalation of chloroform was employed and opiate enemata were given ; and, further, the labour was hastened by the use of the vaginal douche or by the forceps. The children were all born living. In two cases the albumen had disappeared in thirty-eight hours and three days respectively. In the third case, three weeks before the labour, ^edematous swellings of the lower extremities, genitals, &c, had been noticed; the patient had puerperal peritonitis, and the case was protracted. The total maternal deaths from all causes was three ; one of these has been alluded to. The second was, and had been, the subject of severe intermittent fever, and this appears to have caused her death eighteen days after labour. The third patient died suddenly of acute oedema of the lungs; as the foetal heart had been heard half an hour before her death the post-mortem Csesarean operation was performed, and a well-developed, but dead, foetus extracted. The lungs were affected with oedema, and there was Bright's disease of the kidneys. Mitchell, Dr. Althue.— On Difficult or Anomalous Parturition in connexion with Idiocy. Med. Times and Gaz., July 12th, 1862. The author relates the results of an inquiry into the history of 554 idiots and imbeciles in the counties of Aberdeen, Kincardine, Perth, Fife, Kinross, Clackmannan, and "Wigton, with a view to discover the cause of the mental defect. The special influence of the act of partu- rition is here considered. Of sixty nothing was known, of seventy-nine others information was generally defective, but good on some points. The facts related were carefully collected and scrutinised. In their aggregate, the author believes that they tend to the general conclusion that tedious labours and instrumental deliveries do frequently injure the child in such a manner as to lead to the manifestation of idiocy. The act of birth is often fatal to the child; it is more so when the delivery is tedious or instrumental. It is a reasonable inference, that that which is fatal to so many will inflict grave and permanent injury on many others whose life may be spared. Further, since it is the head which is chiefly exposed to such injury, it may be expected that disease and defective development of the brain should follow. It has been shown that according to the extent of compression of the head is the frequency of fatal results, and that when the size of the head is increased only by the difference between the male and female heads the difference is marked in this respect—more boys than girls die from the act of birth. Tlie'act of birth further injures more boys than girls, of which there is proof, the author believes, in the greater mortality of male children during the first year of life, and a further proof in the fact that, while of those who become insane in adult life there are constantly more females than males, the reverse is true of those whose insanity dates from