357 OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. inadmissible. By the fingers of the left hand pressure was made steadily on the presenting head, directing it towards the left iliac process and forwards, while the breech was pressed in the opposite direction by the right hand, applied to the fundus externally. In a few minutes the head was pushed away, and the right foot seized; version was then effected. Nearly twenty minutes was occupied in extracting the breach; the cord being almost pulseless, the delivery of the chest and head was hastened, but the arms and the head were delayed two or three minutes each, and the child was born apparently dead. By flannel wrung out of hot water, applied to the chest, faint inspiratory efforts were excited; in half an hour it was recovered. In all, the labour only occupied five or six hours in the induction; this could not have been effected without the dilators to expand the cervix and the operation of turning by the bi-manual method. Other cases are related in which the result was equally satisfactory. The author remarks, in conclusion, that the accouchement force may be altogether discarded; the new method substitutes gentleness for force, and the forcible dis- tension by the hand is no longer necessary. Considerable nicety of discrimination and delicacy of execution is necessarily involved in the proceeding, but it is to be expected that such qualities may be reasonably expected in those who undertake obstetric responsibility. EOHCEPS. Lee, Dr. Robert.—Observations on the discovery of the original Obstetric Instruments of the Chamberlens. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlv, p. i. From the facts and documents here placed on record it appears to be rendered probable that Dr. Peter Chamberlen was the inventor of the forceps; that one of his sons, Hugh, was the translator of Mauriceau, and the individual referred to by that writer in his work. There was a second Hugh Chamberlen, the son of the latter, and grandson of Peter Chamberlen. Dr. Lee gives an account of a visit to and inspection of the house and closet in which the original Chamberlen instruments, now in the possession of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, were discovered. Ramsbotham, Dr.— Clinical Midwifery. Med. Times and Gazette, 1862. The author gives in a series of clinical reports the particulars of all cases in which the forceps were used by him during the five years 1840—1844. The first series include nine cases. In six of them the head was sufficiently low in the pelvis for an ear to be distinctly felt, and were cases for the short forceps. In the employment of this in- strument the author has in his works laid it down as a rule to apply the blades oyer the ears, but in practice he has introduced the blades within each ilium of the mother, because they pass up more easily in this direction, and because he has by practice become perfectly aufait to the manipulation of tlie iristrumeut, and tolerably well aware how much power may be used without doing harm. The other three were long forceps cases; here the blades should always be applied within tlie