141 niOKSTIYK SYSTKM. Bouchdt.—J. de Med. et de Chir.-pratiq., vol. xxxiii, p. 198. Asserts the occurrence of a malignant ulcero-gangrenous form of angina distinct from diphtheria. In the case recorded, the child, vet. five years, recovered under treatment with repeated quarter grain doses of tartar emetic and bromide of potassium. Beau.—J. de Med. et de Chir.-pratiq., vol. xxxiii, p. 249. Finds that the free atlministration of tartar emetic and ipecacuan vomits sometimes completely dissipates a commencing typhoid fever. Nelaton and Trousseau.—J. de Med. et de Chir.-pratiq., vol. xxxiii, p. 411. Find that fissures of the anus are successfully treated by enemata of ext. kramerise, gr. 75 ad Jiij used morning and evening, and retained fifteen to twenty minutes, as long as there is pain on returning the injection. When the pain has ceased they may be used once a-day, or once every two days. It is also useful to apply locally a magma of bismuth, one part to three glycerine. Guthrie, Alex.—On Ulcerative Disease of the Throat. Edin. Med. J. Oct. Guthrie describes a fonn of disease consisting of febrile symptoms, pro- stration, gangrenous inflammation, sloughing and ulceration of the throat or air-passages. He distinguishes it from scarlatina, but makes no men- tion of diphtheria, with which it seems to correspond very closely. After an emetic and purgative, copaiba is the remedy which he gives every two three, or four hours, and which he considers most effectual. Clark, A.—Aphtha Figurata; Clinical Remarks on its Pathology and Treatment. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. nth. This disease, as it occurs in adults, passes through three stages, which are sometimes seen simultaneously in different parts of the same tongue. In the first stage it is studded with variously shaped, white, opaque' slightly raised, red-edged patches ; in the second with shallow, red, angry- looking, white-margined erosions; in the third, with smooth,' glassy depressions, through the thin, tensely-stretched lining of which the sub- jacent textures are visible. The morbid process is often repeated in the same spot; and then the papillas are destroyed, and the mucous membrane replaced by fibroid tissue. Some cases are referrible to syphilis, some to local irritation, some are inexplicable. Cure is very difficult, but it is to be attempted by removing all possible causes of local irritation, by the appli cation of lunar caustic to the patches, or of liquor sodaj chlorin followed by a saturated solution of arsenic in H. CI., Pot. iod, pot. chloras and In, pot. arsen., are the internal remedies recommended, or in some in'trac table, cases hydr. iod., half a grain, with extr. conii. Wood, S.—Arch, of Med., No. x, 1862. Records a case in which a cast of the (Esophagus, seven inches Ion- composed ot squamous epithelium, was brought up Ivy 'a female JSLp*