BLOOD, LYMPH, AND CHYLE. Lad been added got quite firm in two to three minutes, the other portion not before twenty-five minutes. This experiment was repeated several times with the same result, and it was also observed that the coagula which formed on the addition of blood were much firmer than the others. Schmidt also examined a great number of effusions in reference to their coagulating properties—altogether ninety-three cases. He examined fluids from the tunica vaginalis, the pericardium, the pleura, the peri- toneum, the ventricles of the brain, &c. Most of these effusions coagu- lated when to their clear fluid a small quantity of defibrinated blood was added. The coagulation began in the neighbourhood of the blood-cor- puscles, and extended gradually throughout the whole fluid. This fact might suggest that the blood-corpuscles acted merely as so many starting- points for a kind of crystallisation. Schmidt therefore introduced into the coagulable fluid finely pulverised, insoluble substances, but found that no effect similar to the above was produced by them. The action of the active principle is not analogous to that of ferments, for it is used up in the process. It combines chemically with the coagulable substance. Having through all this arrived at the idea that the active principle was contained in the blood-corpuscles, Schmidt endeavoured to obtain the contents of the latter as pure as possible, in the form of hsetnato-crystalline. He extracted it from the blood of guinea-pigs, and found that albuminous fluids were rapidly coagulated by it. Some haeinato-crystalline was dissolved in serum taken from a hydrocele, and effected coagulation in from two to four minutes. A solution of harnia- toidine will also produce coagulation, and blood-serum possesses always this property in a more or less marked degree, according to the amount of blood-corpuscle-contents dissolved in it. "What has been here stated of blood applies also to lymph, chyle, and pus; and the corpuscles of these fluids bear the same relation to their respective serums as blood- corpuscles to blood-serum. Schmidt calls those substances which have the power of inducing certain albuminous fluids to coagulate fibrinoplastic. The fluids which contain the coagulable principle in solution he names fibrinogenous. He found that many animal substances possess fibrinoplastic properties, for instance, the cornea, the watery extract of the crystalline lens, the humours of the eye, saliva, &c. This property he further showed to depend on a substance which is identical with hsemato-globuline; when, for example, fibrinoplastic fluids are treated with oxygen and with carbonic acid (in the same manner as blood is treated for the purpose of obtaining crystals), a sediment of white, amorphous granules is formed, which possesses all the properties of globuline, and which produces rapid coagulation when dissolved in any fibrinogenous fluid. The gases of the blood exert, as is well known, a powerful influence on its coagulation. It is, therefore, a matter of importance to determine the exact nature of this influence. Schmidt found that the presence of car- bonic acid always retarded coagulation. This retarding influence is but very slight when exerted on fresh blood. Fresh blood saturated with carbonic acid took only one quarter of a minute longer to ooao-ulate The coagulum, however, was much less firm than usual. The coagulation of chyle, which is much less fibrinogenous than blood, was greatly retarded by