491 OCCUPATIONS. effluvium in the interior of dwellings during the experiments, nor did the mortality or sickness returns indicate an unusual amount of disease of a pythogenic character. As the general result of their inquiry, the authors are of opinion that "charcoal filters may be used with efficacy in the course of the air-channels from the drains and closets of houses, as well as in the ventilation of the public sewers, care being taken to ensure their protection from moisture, and preference being given to those forms of filter which offer least resistance to the free passage of air." OCCUPATIONS. Greenhow.—On the circumstances under which there is an excessive Mortality of Young Children among certain Manufacturing Popula- tions. Appendix to the Fourth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, p. 187, London, 1862. The inquiry of Dr. Greenhow relates to the causes of the high mortality of infants in towns in which females are largely occupied in factory labour. It is shown that the unwholesome influences to which infants are exposed in such towns may be attributed mainly to the industrial employment of the married women, which leads them to consign the care of their infants, at a very early age, to young children or strangers. Factory women soon return to their labour after their confinements. When at work they are absent from home all day long, excepting during the dinner-hour. As a necessary consequence, the infants are fed on diet ill adapted to their digestive powers, and are very frequently drugged with opiates in order to allay the fractiousness arising from illness. Parents who thus entrust the management of their infants to strangers become indifferent about them, and "as many of these children die, the mothers become familiarised with the fact, and speak of the deaths of their children with a degree of nonchalance rarely met with among women who devote themselves mainly to the care of their offspring." Dr. Greenhow found that, among the married women employed in certain factories, two thirds or three fourths of the children born, had died in infancy. Greenhow.—Second Report on Districts with excessive Mortality from Lung Diseases. Fourth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, 1862, pp. 138—196. Dr. Greenhow's second report relates to the metal manufactures of Birmingham and Wolverhampton, to the silk manufacture and watch- making of Coventry, to the cotton manufacture of Blackburn, and to the lace-making and hosiery manufactures of Nottingham. The author has shown as regards almost all of the indoor occupations, that the defective ventilation of the rooms in which the workpeople follow their employment acts as a cause of pulmonary disease, independ- ently of those special unwholesome conditions which are associated with many industrial processes; and that this evil is not only in existence in factories, but that it affects in a greater degree those industries which arc followed in the houses of the operatives, and in which the work- place is identical with the dwelling. It is further shown, as regards-