REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 852 dangerous symptom is, ia the author's opinion, the great, the extreme restlessness of the patient. A second difficulty arises from the im- possibility of procuring the necessary assistance in the short time at our disposal, aud a third in a feeling that the operation is useless. SrnEY, Dr. James A.—Accidental hemorrhage, Ed. Med. Journ., May, 1862. The patient, near full time of her ninth pregnancy, was suddenly seized with haemorrhage, and lost a quart of blood. The os was felt ulcerated, indurated, and irregular. The os being dilated eighteen hours later, the shoulder was felt presenting, the body bent backward, the pelvis round and small. Turning was effected, and the child deli- vered. Two days afterwards she had, after trifling exertion, a slight haemorrhage, with relaxed uterus, and died early the next morning. The child, it is stated, had been dead eighteen hours, but the cuticle could be removed by the slightest pressure. Pajot.—Fatal Uterine Hemorrhage at the end of Pregnancy ; Placenta Previa; Fibroid Tumour of the Posterior Uterine Wall. Gaz. des Hop., No. 16, 1862. The patient, a multipara, had a sudden attack of haemorrhage in the ninth month, which lasted for eight days before pains came on. The os was found open, the size of half-a-crown; no foetal part could be detected; the placenta completely covered the os. The bleeding began anew, having ceased for a few hours; the hand could not pass in front, owing to the symphysis pubis; and behind, it was prevented passing by a hard tumour, which appeared to be continuous Avith the placenta. The pla- centa was perforated by the hand and the membranes ruptured, the foetus turned and extracted; the placenta followed spontaneously. The patient subsequently died. The tumour was found after death to have twice the size of a hen's egg, and was situated in the posterior uterine wall, projecting into its cavity. ETjPTUEE op uteres. Byrne, Dr. John A.—Rupture of the Uterus, in which Recovery took place. Dubl. Quart., Feb., 1862, p. 219. In this case the diagnosis of rupture of the uterus was made from the symptoms—extreme collapse, an agonised look, sudden cessation of labour pains, cessation of sounds of fcetal heart, presence of disproportion between the head of the child, which latter was slightly hydrocephalic, and the osseous passages of the mother. There was only a slight discharge of blood from the vagina, no recession of the presenting part, and absence of any sensation on the part of the woman of the accident having occurred. The previous labours, three in number, had been healthy. The delivery was effected easily after perforation of the head, which presented; she was in a state of danger from reactionary symptoms during some days, but finally recovered. Through the speculum a ridge of granulation was afterwards seen passing across and through the os uteri, which bled freely on being touched, and pus exuded. This was supposed to indicate the line of the rupture. In endeavouring to