PREVENTION OF DISEASES. 501 dreii born, with that of the marriages, whence it appears that on the hills the average number of offspring of each marriage is 4*5, while in the marsh it is only ; so that, notwithstanding the greater number of births, marsh malaria not only shortens the lives of the inhabitants, but diminishes their fruitfulness. Polli.—On Diseases arising from Morbific Ferments. Milan, 1861, 4to, pp. 60. Schmidt, vol. 116, p. 242. Starting from the assumption that many diseases arise from the intro- duction into the blood of putrescent matter, or of morbid ferments, and from the fact that sulphurous acid has the power of arresting every variety of fermentation, whether animal or vegetable, even those which are un- affected by white arsenic or prussic acid, and is, notwithstanding, neither poisonous nor prejudicial, the author was led to undertake the following investigation of the applicability of the acid and its salts, as prophy- lactics against the invasion of those diseases which are usually regarded as of septic or zymotic origin. The inquiry was based on experiments on animals; the following were the most important results arrived at:— In dogs killed after the prolonged administration of sulphites, the tissues and animal fluids resisted putrefaction longer than in other animals simi- larly killed, to which no sulphates had been given. The injection of pus, putrid blood, or of the discharge of glanders in such quantity as in- evitably to produce fatal results, under ordinary circumstances, may be practised on dogs previously treated with sulphites with perfect im- punity. It was also found that animals in which the injection of putrid matter into the veins produced scarcely any effect so long as they were under the influence of the prophylactic treatment, at once become affected if the experiment was repeated without previous preparation by the ad- ministration of the sulphites. If animals were inoculated with glanders, and then treated with sulphites, the wound healed without effect, whereas in dogs not so treated a phlegmon was developed at the point of insertion, and the disease soon manifested itself by its characteristic local and general phenomena. The diseases for the prevention of which the author regards the sulphites as peculiai-ly valuable, are dartrosis (under which term the author seems to include all suppurative cutaneous diseases), acute rheu- matism, and intermittent fever, epidemic, and contagious-continued fevers, and those forms of fever (surgical and puerperal) which are dependent on purulent or septic absorption. For prophylactic purposes the author regards the hyposulphite of soda as preferable to the sulphite, into which it becomes transformed after entering the circulation. But if a more rapid antizymotic action is re- quired, it is more advisable to give the sulphites themselves. Of these he finds .the sulphite of magnesia to be the best, as having no smell, and very little taste. As a remedy in septic diseases, the author has given the sulphites in very large doses, amounting to 5iij in the course of the day. Ricokd.—Is there such a thing as the Communication of Syphilis by Vaccination? L'Union, February 6th, 18G2, p. 227. At the request of Professor Trousseau, M. Ricord delivered two lectures in the great theatre of the Hotel-Dicu on the following case, which had 33