255 (telangiectasis). i, 201); two forms occur, one without, and one with a cyst; in the former, they have an unlimited power of spreading j in the latter, they do not pass beyond their original limits; the prognosis and treatment almost entirely depend on the form. Mr. Gay excised a nsevus in the following manner:—He first passed a harelip needle through the skin, below the base of the nsevus, so that the ends emerged one eighth of an inch on each side beyond the extreme edge of the growth. He then removed the whole of the nsevus by two semi- lunar incisions close to its margin, and instantly brought the sides of the wound together by means of a figure of 8 ligature over the needle, as in harelip. As the needle arrested only the bleeding in its immediate neighbourhood, it was necessary to insert two more, one on either side of the first, and to close the wound by ligatures as before. This completely stopped the haemorrhage; lint soaked in cold water was applied. A very few drops of blood were lost, the needles were taken away on the fourth day, and the child presented at the hospital a week after the operation with simply a linear mark indicating the seat of operation. The wound had perfectly healed ('Lancet,' 1861, ii, 568). Dr. Heyfelder also recommends excision ('Deuts. Klin./ 1862, p. 95). A case of nsevus of the scrotum, supposed to extend to the urethra, is recorded in the 'Lancet' (1862, i, 688). W. Roser has found cotton threads wet with the Liq. Ferr. Sesquichlor., used in the manner of setons, very useful in some cases which were unsuited for excision ('Arch, d. Heilk.,' 1862, p. 90). Mr. Clark generally prefers the following treatment in subcutaneous nsevus ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 76); a caustic probe is prepared by melting some nitrate of silver in a watch-glass, and coating the ex- tremity of a fine probe with it. The healthy skin is perforated at least half an inch from the margin of the swelling, by a broad lance-shaped needle ; by repeated thrusts, radiating in different directions, the diseased growth is freely cut up. Immediately after removing the needle, the caustic probe is introduced along the same track, and by moving its point about, the caustic is dissolved in the interior of the tumour. The advan- tages of this method are,—that the caustic acts only on the diseased tex- ture, whereas an irritant injection will often diffuse itself into the healthy areolar tissue; there is no destruction of skin; and the track of the needle being cauterized, there is no risk of bleeding. Moreover a track is secured for the pus which subsequently forms; the disease is cured by this inflammatory destruction of its texture. A large subcutaneous nsevus may be treated in this way in segments. In some cases it may be well to combine different methods of treatment, thus in a case where the lower eyelid was involved both superficially and subcutaneously, both nitric acid and the caustic probe were used effectually, without being followed by any ectropium. When the caustic probe is employed, suppuration should be encouraged by water dressing or a bread poultice. The swelling is , slow in subsiding, but the cure is manifested by the altered den- sity of the texture, the loss of any blue tinge the skin may have presented, and the absence of any change in size whenever the child cries.