REPORT OX MIDWIFERY, ETC. 330 months arc the presence of milk in the breasts and the raised condition of the areola. 18. The mammary signs do not assist lis much in deter- mining the period of pregnancy at which a woman has arrived. A point to which the author has paid particular attention, and in which his conclusions somewhat differ from those ordinarily received, relates to the " follicular glands " of the areola. He has noticed five varieties of these:—i. The vesiculoid, which are small vesicles, in clusters of two, three, or more, the clusters arranged more or less concentrically. 2. The pustuloid, much larger, not in clusters. 3. The papular, small, like little pimples ; they do not contain sebaceous material. 4. The mastoid variety, large, like little nipples, few in number. The vesicular and pustuloid varieties are, he believes, conclusive signs of pregnancy. It is the presence of the sebaceous secretion, peculiar to them, which makes them conclusive evidence. The 5th variety of follicles escape notice unless the areola is put on the stretch; they be close to the nipple, and resemble the ultimate saccules of a vesicular gland. They are also evidence of pregnancy. The varieties numbered as 3 and 4 are not evidence of pregnancy. The author believes that the idea that the follicles communicate with the lacteal ducts has no foundation. Six coloured plates illustrate the points relating to the follicles. Tatloe, Dr. Isaac E. — On the Non-shortening of the Supra- and Infra-vaginal Portion of the Cervix Uteri up to the end of Pregnancy. Am. Med. Times, June 21st, 1862. The author gives the results of an examination of the os and cervix during pregnancy in 150 cases. His conclusions are, that the cervix uteri—supra- and infra-vaginal portion—does not unfold or lose itself during gestation in the body of the uterus, and the cervix thus become obliterated ; that the cervix uteri is not lost or merged into the vagina, by dilating from below upwards, and becoming obliterated at eight to eight and a half months, as Stolz, Chailly, and others, believe; but that it remains its natural length ; that the whole cervix uteri—supra- and vaginal portion—remains intact up to the full time of pregnancy, and sometimes during the first stage of labour; that the shortening, as it is termed, is only apparent to the touch, and that it is the increased breadth of the cervix which conveys the impression in question ; that in primipara the finger cannot be introduced into the external os uteri, but in exceptional cases it may reach half way to the internal os; that the so-called "plug" does not remain to the full term, but is change- able from time to time; that the more perfect the softening, the shorter the labour. Scnr/LTZE. — The Umbilical Vesicle a constant Constituent of the Secundines of the fully-developed Foetus. Leipsic, 1861, Engel- mann, pp. 18. In 150 specimens examined it was found that in 146 the umbilical vesicle was to be detected in the secundines of the foetus at term, and in most cases the omphalo-enteric duct was visible to the naked eye, and the author believes that its presence is constant. Generally it was found to lay out beyond the border of the placenta, rarely within the