27S ItEPOTtT ON SUItCEltY. Incurable by this metbodare,— i, complete obliteration of the lachrymal canals near the point where they enter the sac ; 2, the cases already men- tioned of stricture in the nasal duct, when they are accompanied by an abundant discharge of mucus or pus; 3, cases of callous stricture of the duct; 4, cases in which the mucous membrane is hypertrophied and swollen ; 5, cases of polypoid degeneration of the mucosa ; 6, all cases of epiphora, dependent on caries; 7, all the cases in which the sac has become relaxed from over-distension. The author considers, that Mr. Bowman's sounds— 1. Are not sufficiently thick to restore the calibre of the duct to its normal size. 2. That they do not correspond to the shape of the duct. 3. That they are not sufficiently flexible. In their place he recommends the finest elastic urethral bougies and conical wax bougies; the diameter of the latter should be from 15 to 2 mm. at the point, should soon augment to 4 mm., and thenceforward the bougie should be cylindrical. The elastic bougies are furnished with a wire, which renders them sufficiently strong, without destroying their elasticity. At the distance of 37*5 mm. from the point, they are marked by a thread, to denote the greatest length of the nasal duct. Where the stricture is very nar-row and callous, he employs two conical silver sounds, the one beginning with Bowman's No. 1, and increasing to I'jJ mm. or 2 mm., and the other beginning with 1 mm. and augmenting to 3 mm. or 3"5 mm.; these sounds are graduated in lines. It should be remem- bered, that the maximum length of the nasal duct from the sac to the nose is nine lines, and from the latter point to the floor of the nasal cavity six lines (each line is equal to 2-5 mm.). This change in the in- struments necessitates a change of the manual proceeding, at least in some respects. The author divides the superior lachrymal canal with a little probe-pointed tenotome (rj centim. long, 1*5 mm. broad), and then pushing the same instrument on into the sec, performs a subcutaneous section of the ligam. int. (tendo oculi) and inner wall of the sac. He then, by means of the graduated silver sound, determines the position and resistance of the stricture : if callous, he at once dilates it up to Bowman's No. 5 or 6 by pushing the conical sound onwards, employing, however, in the after-treatment elastic or wax bougies ; if, on the other hand, the stricture is soft and yielding, he employs the elastic bougies from the beginning. The rapidity with which the stricture may be dilated in the further-treatment, depends on the amount of inflammation present; if there is little or no inflammation, it may be rapidly dilated,—if there is much inflammation, it is better to act with great caution, perhaps for a time to use only the finest gum elastic bougies, till the inflammatory symptoms have diminished. The author considers that the local treat- ment by injections is of great importance ; he employs acetate of lead or sulphate of zinc in the slighter cases, sulphate of copper in those attended with much purulent discharge or great swelling of the mucous membrane. In some cases of distended and relaxed sac, he has slit up the lachrymal canal, and then, by means of a couteau mousse, introduced into the sac, he has enlarged the incision upwards and downwards, as far as the limits of the sac would permit; such apian has been occasionally of much service. \