429 JNOUCIAiSriC SUBSTANCES. tlic cavity of the pericardium, under the visceral layer of which there are isolated, minute haemorrhages. Heart normal. Measurements of liver, from side to side, eleven inches ; greatest longitudinal diameter, seven inches; greatest thickness, three and a half inches; surface yellowish red, smooth; section soft, exuding an abundant slime of the same colour; acini distinct, each exhibiting at the centre streaks of bright-green colour; abundant dark fluid blood in the portal veins and their branches; hepatic veins empty. Spleen enlarged, and containing much blood. Kidneys normal. Brownish-red fluid in the stomach and upper part of the small intestine; mucous membranes normal. Numerous recent haemorrhages in the mesentery. Microscopic examination.—Voluntary muscular fibres (left rectus ab- dominis) infiltrated in various degree with fat-granules. Muscular fibres of heart (left ventricle) in a similar state of degeneration. Liver infil- trated in the highest degree with fat, most of the cells being so crowded with granules as to render their membranes and nuclei indistinguish- able. Uriniferous tubules of the cortical substance of the kidney usually distended with fatty epithelial cells, but occasionally deprived of epithelium, and containing a detritus of albumen and fat- granules: tubules of the pyramids similarly altered, but in a less degree; stroma of the kidney normal. Abundant minute fat-granules in the parenchyma of the lung (lower lobes), partly free, partly contained in the epithelial colls, and partly in the interlobular cellular tissue ; in the latter situation arborizations of nucleated, branched tubules (blood-vessels) were observed, which contained, along with altered blood, large numbers of fat-granules. The author draws attention to the almost universal infiltration of every tissue examined with fat, whereas this change had before been recognised only as regards the liver. He refers to forty-five rases previously recorded, in nineteen of which this lesion existed. He further conjectures that many of the instances recorded by authors of rapid death from acute steatosis of the liver or kidney, or acute jaundice, may, perhaps, be regarded as cases of acute poisoning by phosphorus, on the ground of their complete clinical and pathological analogy with cases known to be of this nature. Lewin.—On the Physiological Action of Phosphorus. Virchow, vol. xxi, p. 5q6\ Schmidt, vol. 116, p. 40. The experiments of Lewin were made on rabbits and frogs. His inquiries were directed to the remarkable changes in the liver and blood known to be produced by phosphorus, and to the form in which the poison enters the circulation. The microscopical examination of the blood of animals poisoned by phosphorus or by the phosphorous or hypophosphorous acids, showed that no structural alteration is pro- duced by any of them. But the colour of the blood, as observed by the naked eye, is remarkably changed. When spread on glass plates, it is observed to possess a greenish-brown lustre, instead of the crimson hue of healthy blood, the contrast being alike perceptible whether it is viewed by transmitted light or as an opaque object. Tatty liver existed in a characteristic degree in six out of eight 'rabbits which had lived eight days after the administration of phosphorus. Most of the