DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 149 Barrallier.—Treatment of Dysentery. Ann. de Therap., 1862, p. 193. Barrallier treats slight cases with pot. tart, soda} gij 111 water, bis die/, cases of medium severity he treats with manna dissolved in whey, jij ss ad Ivnj daily, and occasionally a belladonna ointment. Li the severest instances he uses an infusion of ipecacuan, gij ss ad Jv daily, which causes the first three days vomiting and copious sweating. If the vomiting continues, he resorts to calomel in place of the ipecacuan, giving ten to fif- teen grains daily for four days, and when the stools have become simply diarrhceal, terminating the treatment by mamiized whey. Duclos.—On the use of Nitrate of Silver in Acute Dysentery.—Bullet. Gener. de Ther., Aug. 15th, 1861. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Bev., July, 1862. Duclos recommends administering enemata of this salt night and morn- ing, each containing about four grains in five ounces of water. The injec- tion is to be given immediately after an evacuation, so as to come in con- tact with the diseased membrane, and is to be retained from four to ten minutes, a little opium being added if necessary. The treatment is equally efficacious in all forms of dysentery and at any age. In certain cases it seems to have an abortive action on the disease. Blacklock.—Cases of Acute Dysentery treated by Large Doses of Ipecacuanha. Madras Q. J. of Med. Sc., No. 4, p. 256. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Bev., July, 1862. Ipecacuanha is said to be of more signal service than any other drug, enabling the practitioner to dispense with blood-letting and other means, which are, to say the least, very unsatisfactory in their consequences. It seems to be a general dupurator and promoter of secretion, occasioning, as it does at first, a rapid formation of secretion in the skin, kidneys, faecal glands and fiver ; it prevents undue work being thrown on the liver, and any overflow of bile by which the intestines would be irritated. In the later stages tr. ferri muriatis, with or without nitric acid, is of excellent service; and also in fever of a typhoid type, commencing without local complication, but presenting ilio-ca;cal gurgling with the prostration and brown flush accompanying this infiltration. Gayton, W.—Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 27. Becords a case of severe chronic dysentery of eighteen months' duration which was cured by ipecacuan. Lead, however, was given at the same time. Chassaionac.—J. de Med. de Chir. Pratiq., vol. xxxiii, p. 396. Contends that so far from considering phthisis as a contra-indication for tlic operative cure of fistula in ano, it is an additional and most imperative reason for it. MM. Jobert de Lamballe and Nelaton are of the same opinion regarding the fistula as a cause of debility.