187 FEVEIt ACCOMPANYING SUEGICAL AFFECTIONS. general, without any importance. If, however, after the fever has been moderate during the earlier period, there should occur a considerable increase in the temperature (over 40° perhaps on the third or fourth day), it is tolerably certain that some accidental local inflammation or some constitutional affection is in process of development. The defervescence, the diminution of the fever, owing to the shortness of the fastigium, generally begins on the same day as that of the greatest height. It thus occurs most often on the second or first, more rarely on the fourth or third, most rarely on the fifth, sixth, or seventh day. Hence it results that the critical days, on which the fever connected with internal diseases so often begins to decline, are here quite without value; more- over the occurrence of suppuration neither influences the diminution of the temperature nor the duration of the fever. The defervescence was rapid in twenty-five of Dr. Billroth's cases (generally in twenty-four, sometimes in thirty-six, hours) ; slow in twenty- seven cases (over thirty-six hours). Thus almost the half of the cases ended by crisis, the rest by lysis ; in the former the diminution was almost always regular, in the latter with evening exacerbations. In traumatic fever the frequency of the pulse is almost always pro- portional to the temperature, and is a tolerably certain guide, especially as to the duration. For the intensity of the fever, it is a far less safe measure. * Secondary Fever. There were twenty-three cases of secondary fever; to these must be added the five cases already mentioned in which there was no traumatic fever, and six cases in which the traumatic fever lasted from eight to eighteen days ; so that of the fifty-two cases only eighteen remain, in which the course was quite regular and without secondary fever. Whether after the traumatic there will be secondary fever, cannot be predicted either from the duration, the intensity, or the course of the primary attack. Careful observation of the attacks of secondary fever is far more important than of those of traumatic fever. Causes.—In five cases they remained doubtful; in these cases they lasted ohe or two days, occurred on the fourth, seventh, eighth, ninth, fourteenth clay, were evidenced-by an increase in the evening temperature, and had no further importance ; in many of these cases the wound healed by the first intention. The most usual causes were— 1. Retention of the secretions, and especially in closed wounds. 2. Inflammation of the subcutaneous or intermuscular connective tissue, spreading from the wound, and caused, for example, by the slow throwing off of contused skin, fascia, or tendons, by the presence of foreign bodies, ligatures, &c. 3. Retention of foeces and of the urine (the latter is more common in severe injuries than is generally supposed). 4. Consecutive, inflammations of other organs and tissues, for example, pleuritis and peri- carditis in fracture of the rihs, acute tracheal catarrh in wounds of the trachea. Of all these causes the second is by far the most common, and requires the most careful watching. CW«c—Extremely various; in most (short) attacks a rapid increase,