300 REPORT OX SUROERY. others ? Observation has not yet satisfied us on nil these points. One particular in the case of our patient favours the hypothesis of glandular hypertrophy ; the surgeon, who was consulted in the city, made an ex- ploratory puncture, and saw a stringy, viscous liquid, something like the white of an egg, escape from the tumour. ^ " Whatever it may be, this young man is positively in danger. He is in risk of being suffocated, and in a very short time ; so that it is impera- tively necessary to act as quickly as possible, and not to abandon the idea of a glandular, or in other words, of a tumour that can be enu- cleated. If enucleation proves easy, the operation is simple, and merely consists of an incision in the soft palate, a separation of the edges of the wound, and a detachment of the walls of the tumour, at the same time that it is drawn out by means of hooks. If, however, it is adherent and cannot be enucleated, the operation must be attended with very great difficulty, especially if we are obliged to incise the tissues near such vessels, as the internal carotid artery and the great jugular vein. Besides im- portant veins may be dragged into contact with the bistoury, in conse- quence of the traction necessarily made on the surrounding parts. In this slow and delicate operation, the knife should, as far as possible, act upon the tumour alone." Operation.—A vertical incision, carried over that portion of the tumour which occupied the soft palate, allowed the finger to be passed com- pletely round that portion, which was sufficiently isolated. A first half, six or seven centimetres long, was thus removed ; it presented a tabulated exterior, and on tearing, a granular appearance internally, a circumstance which caused its immediate recognition as a glandular hypertrophy. Certain adhering portions of the tumour were torn away; others, deeper and seated on the left lateral surface of the pharynx, were left, from the impossibility of rendering the removal complete with the knife. The patient lost very little blood, and immediately after the operation he had less difficulty in breathing ; his voice also became clearer and more distinct. The tumour was taken to M. Robin, who recognised it as a glandular hypertrophy of the nature of the tonsil. He found that it contained bvpertrophied culs-de-sac and others of recent formation, nucleated epithelium, and fibro-plastic tissue in small quantity. Two days were allowed to elapse, in order to leave time for the flow of blood, which is indeed very slight, to cease; and on the 21st of February, a first cauterization was made with the electric cautery (galvano-caustic), liquid and solid caustics not being adapted to the present case. The patient supported this first cauterization well, and after three days it was repeated in order to destroy the deep-seated roots of the disease. Uranoplasty.—The remarkable paper by Professor Langenbeck has had the effect of calling greater attention to this important subject; during the last year Professor Langenbeck has recorded two more suc- cessful cases (' Deuts. Klin.,' 1862, pp. 1, 68, 143) : Professors Billroth and Weber have operated after the same manner successfully on infants (' Arch. f. Klin. Chir., ii, 657 ; 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 463) : a translation of Langenbeck's paper has appeared in the ' Arch. Gen.,' (1862, i, 271, 567, 709) : in England the question of priority has been specially agitated (Mr. Hulke, ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1861, ii, 213, 592 ; 1862, i,