294 RErORT ON SURGERY. pain at present from the disease in the root of the tongue, and from the advance o-f disease among the glands of the neck. "During the last month of his life parts of the tongue sloughed, and haemorrhages occurred from the ulcerated parts. The disease in the cervical glands grew rapidly, and suppurated. Salivation returned. Great weak- ness and cough came on. At length he became quite unable to swallow nourishment, and he died exhausted, September 1.3th. "At the post-mortem examination very little of the tongue was found remaining. There were several nodules of apparently medullary cancer in the lungs, and gray hepatization of two thirds of the lower lobe on the right side. Both gustatory nerves were found to have been divided, and their extremities terminated in masses of dense lymph." The division of the sensory nerve cannot supersede the operation for extirpating the disease. Whenever that plan can be adopted with a reasonable probability of success, it will continue to be resorted to for the sake of the more complete relief which it necessarily affords. Yet there is, perhaps, no example of cancer, in which the use of the knife or ecraseur is more unsatisfactory than that in the tongue. A few months at most, sometimes weeks only, of ease are obtained, and the disease returns. And if the tumour be so extensive as to require the extirpation of the whole tongue with it, few operations, according to our present experience, are more fatal in their immediate issue. The division of the gustatories is a perfectly legitimate resource in some of the cases in which that severe operation may have been rejected. A partial extirpa- tion of the tongue, on the other hand, being proper only when the disease is recent and can be completely isolated, will not interfere vnth the performance of the operation in question, which is adapted to a later stage, and only to certain symptoms of the disease. It should be added, that the removal of nervous influence made no perceptible change in the nourishment or vitality of the tumour. It did not grow less, or slough more, than before. In a single case, Mr. Moore has tied one of the lingual arteries; he found that the effect of this operation upon the tumour was much more decided, than that of dividing the nerve. The ulcer became at first paler, and the whole mass of the disease perceptibly shrank. The result, how- ever, was not permanent, and after five weeks, the tumour began to grow again. Any eventual advantage, which may be expected to accrue from this operation is limited, therefore, to a diminution of the haemorrhages, which often attend the later stages of the disease. Occasionally such treatment may be advisable; with lessened pain, after a division of the nerve, life may seem even to these patients more worth prolonging. Cases of removal of the entire tongue by Mr. Nunneley ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 21) ; and by Dr. King (cMed. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 128): A. Clark on aphtha figurata (ib., 1862, i, .34): E. Wagner, case of tuberculosis of the tongue ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1862, p. 571): Mr. Paget, case in which artificial teeth were lodged between the tongue and epiglottis ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 58): Professor Esterle, case of anchylosis of the lower jaw cured by the formation of an artificial joint according to Rizzoli's method (' Ann. Univ.,' clxxvi, 570; or Schmidt's 'Jahrb.,' cxv, 334): case of Esmarch's operation