EYE. 283 less than ten were lost. He then fully adopted a plan, which he had already to some extent practised,—that of making an iridectomy some time before the extraction. This gave him the excellent result, that he only lost two in fifty-nine cases, or in the ratio of i in 29^-. This result is the more striking, because the cases were most unpromising, those of individuals far advanced in years, or marastic, whose eyes would have been certainly lost by any other method. Dr. Mooren considers that there are three points which decide as to whether an operation for iridectomy should be performed before the extraction ; they are (1) the general condition of the patient; (2) the reaction of the pupil on the application of atropine; (3) the state of the lens itself. In all cases, where the general condition is unsatisfactory, either because the patient is marastic or far advanced in years, because he suffers from great con- gestion of the head or cannot remain, for some reason, in bed, the only safe method of operating is to perform iridectomy before the extraction. The greater the total of injurious influences, the longer should be the interval between the two operations. The greater the dilatation of the pupil after the use of atropine, so much the less resistance will it present to the passage of the lens, and so much the less probable will be the occurrence of iritis. Extraction may be at once performed, when the lens is hard, or when it is formed by a hard nucleus with but little cortex. Should the pupil dilate after atropine only to one third of its breadth, extraction could only be recommended, in case all the other conditions were favorable. If, however, the nucleus is small, and the portions of the cortex are very coherent, iridectomy should be the first step. These are not simple speculative indications, but principles drawn from many and careful ob- servations. All the cases which have been thus treated, are detailed by Dr. Mooren, their names and addresses being given, for such is the only way of fully proving their accuracy. M. Stoeber reports a case of diabetic cataract, in which glucose was discovered in the lens (' Ann. d' Ocul.,' xlviii, 192). Choroid. Dr. R. Forster has published an elaborate account of an affection, which he calls choroiditis areolaris (' Ophth. Beit./ p. 97, Berlin, Enslin). Pathologically, it is characterised by the production of circumscribed tubercles in the tissue of the choroid; in front they have a layer of extremely black pigment, which covers a variable amount of their surface ; the rectina is thinned. The tubercles themselves are formed of a per- fectly colourless tissue, containing a network of fibres with intermediate spaces : from the examination of specimens pi*eserved in chromic acid, Professor Aubert was inclined to consider them as colloid tumours, owing to the transparency, the irregular course of the fibres, the distinct cir- cumscription, and the presence of little corpuscles in the intermediate spaces. Dr. Forster has met with twenty-nine eyes (in eighteen persons) affected with this disease. It is characterised by the occurrence of very numerous, circumscribed centres, between which the fundus appears normal. These spots are always found in greatest abundance near the posterior pole; their primary form is round or oval; they rarely equal