36 UEPOltT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINK. tip] .cared to bo most considerable when it amounted to one-sixth of the whole contents of the enclosing sac. The existence of the hydatid fremitus is of practical value as indicating (i) that the tumour is actually of a special kind; and (2) that it is in its normal and unaltered condition when it is most suitable for a successful operation. A resume is then given of Budd's and lioinet's experience relative to paracentesis, which has been reported in the Sear-book lor 1861. Wagner, E.—Capillary Embolia from Fluid Fat one Cause of Pyemia. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 22. Arch. d. Heilk. iii., 1862. ' Wagner relates six cases in which he found the pulmonary capillaries blocked up with fluid fat. Vessels thus obstructed were most easily demon- strated in the free parts, but were most abundant in the infiltrated parts of the lungs and their vicinity. The exudation in the latter was not laitv, bni albuminous, and contained corpuscles. In other parts, as the heart and muscles, fat was not so evident in the capillaries. W. bebeves the fat to have proceeded from a breaking up of the pus corpuscles of an abscess, and to have got then absorbed into the vessels. Wilks, S.—Abstract of Lectures on Pathology. Med. T. & Gaz., July 12th, 26th, Aug. 23rd. Wilks expounds Vu-chow's theory, but does not implicitly adopt it. He thinks there is much truth in it, as well as in the older view, but attributes more nnportance to congestion than Virchow does in the initiative of inflam- mation. With regard to new growths, he considers that there is no absolute distinction between the malignant and non-malignant, but that just in proportion as the active parts of the cells (the nuclei) are alone produced, so is the growth eminently malignant and disposed to propagate ; and just also in proportion as the growth is prone to fibrillate, so is it disposed to be innocent. The vicinity in which the new growth is produced has also considerable influence on the form it assumes. Thus tumours near bone may be osseous or enchoudromatous, those on the skin may be epitheliomas, and growths near the mammary and labial glands may consist of glandular structures. In Lecture II. Wilks argues that inflammatory changes in parenchymatous organs do not go on to suppuration, but that in all cases of abscess the seeds of the purulent matter are carried there from a distant part. Thus it follows that suppuration occurs not in connexion with the secreting part of the organ, but in the vascular or mterstitial tissue, and the same he believes is equally true of cancer. Rutherford Haldane, D.—On the Coexistence of Tubercle and Cancer. Edin. Med. J., Oct. Haldane relates a case where the appearances at the autopsy were very fallacious. He admits the possibility of the two morbid states coexisting both in a condition of activity, although he has never met with such an instance. Lionel Beale, M.B. (Lancet, Dec. 6th), Proposes the view that irritants simply act by procuring freer access for