REPORT ON IflDWUMSKY; ETC. 410 PAET IV.—DISEASES, ETC., OE THE E(ETUS. Veit.—On the frequency of Coiling of the Funis round the Fcelus, and its influence on the Child. Mon. £ Geb., April, 1862. The frequency of the occurrence of the coiling in question has been stated as about one in forty-five cases. The author found that out of 2550 labours in 442 cases the funis was wound round the neck and body once in 5'8 cases; of the 442 children 63 were stillborn and 7 dead; of the remaining 2108 labours when no such coiling was noted, there were 84 still-births, and 23 born dead. It thus appears that disturbances of the foetal respiration processes in cases of coilin"- is twice or three times greater than when such coiling does not occur. It was found numerically also that the danger is greater to the child in primiparous than in other cases, when the coiling is present. Other things being equal, it is greater, also, for small infants. Billt, A.—Third case of Unusual Twisting of the Cord. Annal. I7niv., vol. clxxix, 1862, p. 460. The woman, set. 22, was delivered in November. In the month of September previous, the movements of the foetus had been so strong as to give considerable pain. Without apparent cause the movements ceased in the beginning of October, and the abdomen ceased to grow larger, and a sensation of weight was experienced. A dead foetus was expelled on November 12th. The cord considerably twisted on itself presented two distinct and irregular dimensions. The placental portion was larger than usual, of an obscure red colour, fifty-seven centimetres long, and just over five centimetres in circumference. The other por- tion was twisted on itself, and had a circumference of "09 centimetre, a length of one centimetre two millimetres, and ended at the umbili- cus of the foetus. The skin of the umbilicus was not elongated, as usual, in the form of a cone. An injection of water could not be made to pass through the umbilical vein at the twisted part of the cord. The foetus was in an advanced stage of maceration. Within the abdo- men the umbilical vein was a little reticulated, the umbilical arteries slightly dilated. The brain was of the ordinary form, of soft consist- ence, so that the lateral ventricles could hardly be distinguished. The cerebellum presented externally its normal shape, it was rather small in proportion to the size of the cerebrum. The left lobe of the cere- bellum was considerably softer than the right, and in a state of lique- faction. The author considers this analogous to those which he has previously related of the same kind; the phenomena observed being almost completely identical; viz., as regards the peculiar twisting of the cord, its impermeability, the state of maceration of the foetus, the relative condition of the two lobes of tbe cerebellum. And it substan- tiates what was laid down by the author in his first memoir :—That the alteration of one of the two lobes of the cerebellum determines rotatory motions of the foetus ; that these motions produce the twisting of the cord ; and that, in consequence of such twisting, the umbilical cord cir- culation is arrested and the foetus killed.