KEPOBT ON MIDWEPBRY, ETC. 400 enlarged to size of a duck's egg. Left kidney and ureter normal. In reference to the frequency of dilatation of the ureter in lying-in women irrespective of lateral position or fixing of the uterus, the author found that in sixteen cases it occurred nine times; it almost always begins where the uterus touches the common iliac artery. Klein.—On the Treatment of Sore Nipples. Deut. Klin. 1861 No 39 In cases where the nipples are liable to crack, and in primipara;, the author successfully employs the following treatment. During the last three months of pregnancy the nipples are washed, and tincture of galls applied. The nipples are covered at the same time with shields. PUEEPEBAL FEVEB; PUEEPEBAL PEBITONITIS ; PHLEGMASIA DOLEXS ; PUEBPEEAL THEOMBOSES ; PELTIC ABSCESS, &C. Simpson, Prof.—Recovery from Puerperal Embolism, and Sudden Death in a subsequent Pregnancy. Ed. Med. Journ., May, 1862. The patient' had, five years before, when in the eighth month of pregnancy, fallen suddenly down, and was found stupid and senseless, with hemiplegia of the whole of the right side. The left carotid artery was beating more strongly than the right. Embolism was suspected. Examination of the heart revealed that the mitral orifice was a little contracted, and it seemed probable that a vegetation had got loosened and conveyed to the head. The patient then recovered so far that she went her full time, was able to move about, though walking lamely, with impaired speech and imperfect use of right hand. Since that she had borne one or two children. Again pregnant, in the seventh month she became unwell; the left hand cold; breathing became laborious; coldness and collapse set in; the countenance had an anxious, alarmed expression; the skin cold and strangely discoloured, partly livid, from stasis of blood, and partly yellow, perhaps from the decomposition and diffusion of some of the blood-colouring matter. Pulse very small; heart's action tumultuous. Two hours later she died. There was a cavity of considerable size to the external side of the left ventricle, involving the lower and anterior portion of the corpus striatum, lined by a very vascular, serous-looking membrane. It was elongated, and the opposite sides in contact. No obstruction in cerebral vessels. The author considers that the original embolus had disappeared, owing to the time (five years) which had elapsed; the place of the portion of brain destroyed by the temporary presence of the embolus was repre- sented by the cystic cavity described. The mitral orifice was very con- tracted, and at the probable source of the embolus hardly admitted the tip of the forefinger, and on the free surfaces of the valves were two warty-like projections, overlaid by fresh coagula. There were firm clots behind the valves. The pulmonary artery and its branches were found quite free. The lungs were slightly cedematons ; both, particularly the left, presented in a slight degree 'the brown induration described by Virchow. Babnes, Dr. Eobebt.— On the Thrombosis and Embolia of Lying-in Women. Eeport of Obst. Soc, Lancet, Feb. 22nd, 1862.