218 REPORT ON SURGERY. strongly upon the patient or his friends, should he or they exhibit much hesitation in yielding consent. At the French Surgical Society, M. Broca related a case of compound fracture of the leg (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1861, p. 231), which was followed on the next day by considerable emphysema; amputation was performed through the leg, but quite above the emphysema; nevertheless there ensued gangrene of the stump, with repeated rigors, and death eight days later. From the succeeding discussion we find that Chassaignac ampu- tated the arm in a case of compound fracture with emphysema of the forearm, the patient recovering. He remarked also that, in these cases, putrefaction after death was astonishingly rapid. Velpeau and others cited cases of recovery without amputation. It appears that emphysema of the extremities may occur in connection with injuries of the same parts at several different periods; thus, several cases were related (one is recorded by Velpeau, in which, an hour after a compound fracture of the leg, it reached the knee; ib., p. 434) which were characterised by its oc- currence immediately, in an hour, in two hours or so, after the injury, and by ultimate recovery without further complication ; in such it i3 probably caused by air, derived directly from the external atmosphere, being forced into the cellular tissue. A second class comprises those cases in which it appears to be one of the symptoms of septicaemia, where the gas is, per- haps, exhaled by the blood; it is quite possible that in some cases the injury induces an immediate change in the composition of that fluid. A third form is that which accompanies inflammatory gangrene, as in cases recorded by M. Robert (ibid., p. 255) and Dr. Wilmot ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' xxxiii, p. 313) ; here the gas is probably derived from the struc- tures undergoing decomposition. Finally, it may occur without any external wound ; this is shown by a case related by M. Morel-Lavallee ('Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1861, p. 243), in which theive was emphysema of both thighs lasting for ten days ; thirteen days before its appearance the patella had been fractured, but there had been no external wound whatever. In connection with this subject a note is published by M. Demarquay, in which he relates some experiments on the chemical composition of air which had been injected into the cellular tissue (ibid., p. 274). TETANUS. "W. Griesinger records a case ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1862, p. 171) in which there was severe fever, the temperature increasing during the last four days from 38'4째 to 39*6째 C.; he discovered in the urine an immense number of casts, of a very pale, waxy kind, without albumen, until the last day of life, when there was a trace of it: He remarks that such an acute disease, attended with high fever and acute kidney disease, cannot be considered a simple spasmodic affection, and quotes some post-mortem examinations which favour the view that it arises from in- fection. Another case is elaborately detailed by C. A. Wunderlich (ibid., p. 175); the first symptoms appeared on the 21st October; on the even- ing of the 26th the temperature was 37*6째 C.; it increased with tolerable regularity till 10 p.m. on the 31st, when it was 4075째; it was 42 at 6.40 a.m., November 1st, immediately after death, and continued to aug-