REPORT ON SURGERY. :s I o tinguishcd by vaginal examination combined with abdominal palpation. As to the treatment, if the tumour is small, and if it does not cause much pain or inconvenience, the surgeon should be in no haste to inter- fere. If, however, it becomes painful and grows rapidly, or if the patient insists on its removal, the surgeon may be obliged to operate. M. Ndlaton has twice performed this delicate operation. In one case, M. Michon believed the disease to be encephaloid; M. Ndlaton, having recognised the affection, recommended its removal. In the operation, the peritoneum was found to adhere very firmly to the tumour; a small hole was torn in it, which was fortunately closed by a piece of omentum. The great vessels in the iliac region were laid bare, but were not wounded. The pedicle of the tumour was cut from the crest of the ilium by scissors. The patient continued perfectly well four or five years after the operation. The second case was of a simpler kind; in it, a tumour rather larger than the head of a foetus at full term, was removed through an incision like that for ligature of the external iliac artery ; the patient recovered, and there has been no relapse. Intestinal Obstruction. Mr. Gay traces, in his paper on intestinal obstruction by the solitary band ('Trans. Med. Soc. Lond.,' i, 137), the formation of the band to the process of cure of some serious intestinal affection, such as ulce- ration or a penetrating wound; lymph is thrown out, and an adhesion is formed with some neighbouring part; at a later period, from the motion of the intestines or other causes, this adhesion stretches into a band, perhaps many inches long. " The practical conclusion at which I arrive from the foregoing remarks is, that our present means of diagnosing internal obstruction by bands are imperfect; and that consequently many cases will escape the most careful scrutiny to ascertain their cause. On the other hand, the inductions from the confessedly superficial analysis of the cases which I have collected, and thus cursorily examined, en- courage and even authorise the surgeon, in a case presenting a certain combination of features or evidence, in other words, in a well-marked case, rather to explore the abdominal cavity than to allow the patient to sink without the chance that such a procedure might afford. These evidences should be: 1. An antecedent abdominal affection, of such severity as to lead the surgeon to believe that it might have been attended with some ulcerative or perforative process of either the bowel or the mesentery. 1. Suddenness of the attack, without previous visible deterioration of the patient's health. 3. Pain, first localised, then tenderness over a large area. 4. Distension, with general dulness at first; and subsequent concen- tration of dulness and tension towards the original seat of pain. 5. "Vomiting, especially if it speedily become faecal. I believe that no such conjunction of symptoms as these can arise without some sudden alteration in the relation of parts within the ab- dominal cavity; and that in most cases a bridle will be found to be either directly or indirectly constricting a portion of intestine. As soon as the last of the series of symptoms—foecal vomiting—has set in, the surgeon