REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 3SS to bo recovering, was seized on the twelfth day with tetanus, and died in two days. There were no adhesions. The clamp had come away on the third day, but a live portion of peduncle, larger than a walnut, remained projecting at the lower end of the wound, the slough caused by the pressure of the clamp adhering to it. The peduncle and the stump of the omentum which was with it were then cut away, the author considering that one or other might have something to do with the tetanic symptoms, and a turpentine enema ordered. The pulse went up to 120 in the evening, and tetanic spasms became more frequent in the recti muscles; the teeth were clenched; swallowing brought on spasms. The pulse went up to 160 later in the evening. "Warmth, quiet, wine, and chloroform inhalation during the spasms formed, in addition to turpentine enemata, the treatment during this day. The next day the pulse was down to 97, spasms less severe; occasional chloroform inhalations. But at night spasms became more violent; power of swallowing almost lost; pulse 110. Chloroform during night occasionally. Next morning pulse 96 ; improvement till afternoon, when a violent spasm, with croupy respiration, came on; dusky face and lips, rapid strong pulse, and evident laryngeal obstruc- tion. Larynx was opened; respiration then became tranquil, but gradually ceased, the heart continuing to beat three or four minutes after respiration had ceased. The wound had perfectly united; there was no traction on the pedicle. There was no sign of perito- nitis ; no altered nerve or vessel could be traced from the neigh- bourhood of the cicatrix. The next patient, set. 41, mother of six children, large multilocular cyst of two years' growth, had suffered much for last two months; great emaciation. The pulse had been for some time very rapid, which was considered to be due to inflammation of some of the cysts. There was no cyst large enough to tap, and the §epta were broken down by the hand in order to diminish the size and enable the tumour to be drawn out through the incision. The pedicle was broad; after cutting it across, the clamp which was put on cut through it, and bleeding was found to be going on between the clamp and the uterus. A second clamp was put on, but this cut through the pedicle in like manner, and first an artery coming oft' close to the junction of the Fallopian tube, and next two clusters of veins close to the side of the uterus, had to he tied. The bleeding then ceased. On the tenth day, after going on fairly well, the patient began to look yellow, to lose appetite, and to feel weak. Pulse rose to 130 and 140, and there was a gelatinous discharge from the rectum. There was found a depression of the recto-vaginal septum, leading to the suspicion that there was some serous or purulent collec- tion in the pelvic cellular tissues. Slight improvement next day. On twelfth day more depressed, more yellow ; aphtha? on tongue and cheeks ; rapid, shallow breathing; and viscid bronchial secretion coughed up with (lillinilty. Tension of recto-vaginal septum having increased, a trochar was passed into the most projecting part in the vagina, behind the uterus, and eight ounces of a very fetid bloody serum discharged. This was followed by a dischargo of grumous pus and immediate relief. Two days afterwards a very free discharge of fetid pus escaped by the side