MATERIA CIIIRURGICA £SB MEDICAL TREATMENT. 1S1 the loot into a natural position at right angles with the tibia, I plunge it into a pan of cold water, where I hold it until the gutta percha is quite firm ; about five minutes will be found sufficient for this purpose." The results obtained in vesicovaginal fistula, apparently through the use of metallic sutures, by Sims and others, seemed to justify the belief that metallic bodies really cause less irritation than vegetable ; this opinion appeared to be confirmed by the experiments published by Mr. Simpson. The subject is of importance, and we are glad to be able to communicate some researches, which bring it somewhat nearer a practical decision. M. Oilier ('Gaz. ITebd.,' 1862, pp. 135, 181, 261, 359) attributes to metallic threads the following advantages—they ulcerate and divide the tissues less rapidly ; they occasion less suppuration along their track ; they are sooner tolerated by the tissues through which they penetrate, and may be allowed to remain for a longer period ; they leave smaller cicatrices ; all which advantages are, according to M. Oilier, owing to the less irritation produced by them. His experiments showed clearly the great importance of using very fine wire or thread ; when wire of the thickness of a hair of the beard was compared with the thread commonly employed, the supe- riority of the former was undeniable. When the threads were of the same size the difference was less sensible, and occasionally for some days could not be perceived ; as the rule, however, those composed of metal had the superiority of ultimately becoming tolerated (healed in, like ear-rings), whilst the vegetable products continued to excite suppuration. He found iron wire as well tolerated as that of any other metal; and as it could be produced of extreme delicacy without too much diminishing its strength, he ultimately adopted its use exclusively. He employs several sizes, which maybe classified as—capillary wire, from o-o8 mm. to cru mm. ; medium wire, from o-i8 mm. to C24 mm. ; large wire, from 0 40 mm. to 0*45 ram. The capillary wire is sufficiently strong for most sutures ; it will bear with- out breaking a weight of 400 to 500 grammes. It is generally advisable to insert numerous points of suture, so as to distribute over a larger surface the force retaining the edges in contact, and thus to diminish the traction exercised by each particular thread. Oilier places the sutures so near as three or four millimetres when he uses the finest wire. In respect to the dis- advantages of vegetable substances, his experiments scarcely confirm those of Mr. Simpson as to the absorption and decomposition of pus and other liquids by vegetable materials ; he appears to lay more weight on the mechanical effect of swelling, which must occur in every vegetable thread to some extent. In the quill-suture, the author has adopted two plates of lead moulded according to the shape of the parts, in place of the quills or pieces of bougie commonly used. G. Simon ('On Vesico-vaginal Fistula, &c.,' Rostock, 1862) has also found, as the result of an extensive series of experiments, that fine are preferable to coarse sutures ; on the other hand, he has not perceived any important difference between fine, well-twisted silk, and fine metallic wire, lie also tried horsehair for a considerable time; on the surface of the body it answered well, but in cavities it was difficult of application, owing to its smoothness and elasticity ; finally he abandoned its use and returned to that of fine silk. He found a distinct difference in the intensity of the inflammation and suppuration, dependent upon the material; this difference