4 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 4. The germs of most vegetable and animal substances are destroyed by exposure for a short time to a temperature of ioo° C. ^. 13ut milk, yelk, and meat contain germs which arc not thus killed. Boiling at a higher temperature under higher pressure, or long-continued boiling at ioo° C, will, however, always suffice to destroy these germs also. 6. The germs in milk, yelk of egg, and meat, after having been boiled a short time, are still capable of being developed into the specific ferment of putrefaction, and sometimes also—those of yelk, at least—into long and indolent vibriones. 7. The specific ferment of putrefaction is of an animal nature. It de- velopes itself and multiplies at the expense of albuminous compounds, but does not multiply under those conditions alone which supply all the requisites for vegetable growth. Bttcqtjoy, E.—The effects of Compressed Air on the Animal Economy. Strasbourg, 1861. In Kebl, during the construction of the bridge over the Rhine, the labourers had to do their work in compressed air. Bucquoy often de- scended into the reservoir for the purpose of making observations on the effects of that air upon himself and others. He found that, in getting into it, the respiration lost its regularity. Restlessness was soon felt, and pain in the ears set in. It was as if a foreign body was driven with force into the external meatus. This pain was so intense that some people could not belp crying. It went off and came back again, till it at last ceased. The breathing grew then quiet. The inspiration was shorter than usual, the expiration longer. The pulse was more frequent than normal. Hear- ing was impaired, and it felt as if an expanding body was lodged in the interior of the ear. The voice sounded as if it came through the nose, and to speak out required an effort. At i\ atmosph. pressure it was impossi- ble to wbistle, and there was much perspiration. On returning into the open air the breath formed a cloud. There was a sbarp feeling of cold. The.pain in the ears returned. There was palpi- tation of the heart, and the respiration got again irregular. On analysing tbe air it was found to contain 2*37 per cent, of carbonic acid. The remainder consisted of 19*23 per cent, of oxygen and 8077 per cent, of nitrogen. The increase in the frequency of the pulse is shown in the following table: Atmospheric pressure. At the be- ginning. After quarter hour stay. After twenty- live minutes' stny. After half hour stay. Aflcr one hour stay. 12-9 11-9 7'' I'S—2-0 25-8 127 986 6-77 97 2-0—2-5 28-8 iS-6 12-10 7-46 7-60 2-5—y° 60 407 2-50 Those who bad to work for a long time in the compressed air got emaciated. Many labourers lost their appetite, and looked as if they were just recovering from a severe illness. Muscular and rheumatic pains occurred often, and sometimes the effects of congestion of the lungs and