REPORT OX MIDWIFERY, ETC. 336 be uncountable, from excessive frequency, for a few moments, returning after a time to the normal number. The mere statement of the patient iu reference to presence or absence of movement of the foetus must not be depended on; auscultation and palpation must be resorted to in order to ascertain the presence or absence of movement. That the number of beats may be raised independently of foetal movements the author admits, but he has only observed a persistent increase in the foetal pulsation in cases where the woman was the subject of inflam- matory attacks, especially of the thoracic viscera. The details of five cases are then given, in which the mothers were the subjects of serious disease, and the effect produced upon the foetal pulsations noticed. The deductions drawn are apparently, but not really, in opposition to those of Hohl's. Hohl found that the effect of the presence of inflam- matory diseases of the mother was to diminish the frequency of the foetal pulse, to make it intermittent, &c. Huter considers that the first effect is acceleration; the retardation occurring later, and being indi- cative of the fact that the life of the foetus is in jeopardy. He has not observed in any case presence of inflammatory disease on the part of the mother with absence of acceleration of the foetal pulse. He con- siders it doubtful whether the foetal pulse is elevated in frequency by movements of the mother, that is to say independently of movements of the foetus thereby likely to be excited. He does not believe, as contended for by Hohl, that diminution of external temperature affects the fre- quency of the foetal pulse. Neither has he found the foetal heart-beat influenced by the hour of the day. It was Hohl's opinion that the younger the foetus the more frequent is the pulse. Dubois's, Naegele's, and Depaul's opinion was that there is no material difference at dif- ferent periods of foetal life, and Huter confirms the latter view of the case. The opinion of Frankenbaiiser, that the sex of the foetus influences the number of beats, has been disproved by the more extended observations of Breslau, Hennig, and Haake. The author remarks that he has never failed to detect the foetal heart-beat in the sixth month, and later, when the child was alive. The so-called funic souffle he has heard in 9 cases out of 200. He confirms the statement of Hohl, Stoltz, Cazeaux, Kilian, and Kiwisch, that the frequency of the festal pulse is considerably increased during labour, irrespective of foetal movements. In many cases this may be due to febrile con- ditions on the part of the mother. The frequency may be increased, irrespective, however, of foetal movement or maternal febrile condition, and may be produced by febrile disturbance of the foetus itself. To prove this, three cases are related, one by Hohl, one by Depaul, and one by the author himself. Acceleration of the foetal pulse, setting in at the end of tedious labours, is a highly dangerous symptom ; the fact that foetal movements are at the same time observed must not lead us into error, for the frequency continues after the movements cease. The author considers it probable that this acceleration is due to the slightly asphyxiated state of the child inducing the necessity for breathing; some respiratory movements may occur, air obtaiuing access to the mouth through the generative passages; but the quantity being limited, the respiratory movements are laboured, and the frequency of the heart'3