22 HE POUT ON PHYSIOLOGY. carbonic acid. Schmidt thinks that the slight differences in time which arterial and venous blood show in reference to coagulation may be ac- counted for by the different amounts of carbonic acid which they respectively contain. Oxygen and atmospheric air have no direct promoting influence on coagulation. But when much carbonic acid is contained in the blood, oxygen promotes coagulation by displacing that gas. Blood which in vacuo has been freed of all its gases does not lose its fibrinoplastic power. A portion of chyle was mixed with an equal volume of water, and a current of oxygen was transmitted through the mixture for two hours. Coagulation began, and was completed at the same time as in another portion of chyle through which no oxygen was passed. Contact with animal tissues retards coagulation. Numerous practical inferences may be drawn from these interesting experiments. To the pathologist they suggest that the coagulation of effusions which occurs within the cavities of the living body is most likely due to the admixture of the contents of blood-corpuscles during the process of inflammation. The physiologist may imagine that this pro- perty of coagulating, under the influence of cells, which belongs to the entire nutritive fluid of the body, is, perhaps, the foundation upon which all tissues are built up. In comparing the quantity of carbonic acid contained in the blood with that contained in the urine, Schoffer found that, on the average, 3'79$ by volume of carbonic acid can be pumped out of the acid urine of a dog, and that this quantity does not bear any determinable propor- tion to the carbonic acid of the blood. The quantity of carbonic acid in the blood of dogs increases with the amount of phosphoric acid which the latter contains ; but this does not take place in any exact propor- tion. The greatest part of the carbonic acid of the blood is probably attached to phosphate of soda; only a small portion is simply diffused in it. Blood of dogs was obtained almost simultaneously from the carotid artery and from the right side of the heart; 100 volumes of the arterial blood contained 5*5 volumes more oxygen and 4*6 volumes less carbonic acid than the same quantity of the venous blood. The quantity of fixed carbonic acid is much greater in the venous than in the arterial blood. The lungs seem, therefore, to exert an influence as yet unknown on the elimination of carbonic acid from the body. Blood and blood-serum differ greatly in their amount of fixed carbonic acid. The latter contains a much larger quantity than the former. 100 volumes of blood yielded to the pump 41 48 volumes of gases. Among these were 24*62 volumes of carbonic acid; besides which, it contained 1-59 fixed carbonic acid. An equal quantity of serum contained 11*28 volumes of gases, of which 10*20 volumes were carbonic acid; the quantity of fixed carbonic acid was 23*77 volumes. This observation suggested that the blood-corpuscles have the power of setting carbonic acid free. To determine this, serum was examined before and after its admixture with blood. It was found that the quantity of fixed carbonic acid contained in the pure blood was *8ig ; in the pure serum, 16*65$; an^ m tne mixture of both, only 177 ยง. These results prove strikingly the correctness of the above suggestion. The gases are more easily pumped out of the arterial than of the venous blood, and