REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. BY DR. SANDERSON. Gairdner.—Public Health in relation to Air and Water. Edinburgh, 8vo, pp. 369. The purpose of this work is to teach students of medicine the elementary principles of modern sanitary science, and to claim from the public for the medical profession " the rightful influence which springs from its natural position in relation to sanitary matters." In the introductory chapter the author gives an account of the sanitary legislation of tbe Pentateuch and that of the Greeks and Romans, both of which strongly contrasted with the absence of all care for the preservation of health which, until the present century, has characterised the nations of Christen- dom. The author points out that the degraded social condition, moral as well as physical, of the urban populations of mediaeval Europe was the inevitable product of the ascetic spirit of the time, and traces its results in the frightful prevalence of mortal diseases, and in particular in the vast epidemics which spread over Europe in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. At that time the only prophylactic thought of, was to flee contagion and separate the infected, and the only recognised cause of pestilence was the Divine will. In the remainder of the chapter the author traces the gradual but rapid development of modern preventive medicine; and, in conclusion, vindicates the claim of air and water to be regarded as the main agents both in the production and prevention of dis- ease, their stagnation leading to the former results, their increased movement and circulation to the latter. As regards sanitary organization, Dr. Gairdner advocates the adoption in Scotland of the principle of local government to the fullest extent, with the addition of a central authority, whose functions shall be limited, like those of the Privy Council in England, to inquiry and advice. The administration of sanitary laws should be vested in local authorities exclusively, acting under the guidance of medical officers of health charged with the work of sanitary inspection. MEDICAL STATISTICS. Farr.— On the Modes of calculating the Death-rate of a Population. Med. Times, June 14th. In this lecture the author explains the methods employed by statisticians