254 REPORT ON SURGERY. normal temperature. The patient's life was thus saved, and amputation of the thigh was, at a later period, successfully performed. The ease with which transfusion may now he performed, and its wonderful and instan- taneous results, should encourage us to resort to it without hesitation, not only in cases of acute anoemia, hut also in chronic, exhaustion-causing diseases. The dangers of the operation are the injection of air or coagula, and the excitement of phlebitis ('Baier. Int. Bl.,' No. 9, 1862; and 'Med.-Chir. Rundsch.,' 1862, ii, 204). A case is recorded (J. Dreessenj * Diss, on Transf.,' Kiel, C. F. Mohr, 1861), in which Professor Esmarch injected into the femoral vein fourteen ounces of defibrinated calf's blood after an amputation at the hip : the effect was very transient. A successful case of transfusion occurred in the prac- tice of Dr. Weickert ('Deuts. Klin.,' 1862, p. 230). HEMORRHAGE. Mr. Wells has written on acupressure ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 303) ; M. Gery on the bad effects of the perchloride of iron (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1862, p. 105) ; and M. Demarquay on the method of stopping serious bleeding in periarticular wounds (* Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1861, p. 461). Mr. Lister in writing on amputation of the hip-joint, says (Holmes's ' Surgery,' iii, 90), " should tumour of the bone render transfixion impos- sible, it will, I believe, be found advantageous to adopt an expedient lately suggested to me by a very interesting case related by an American surgeon (whose name I regret being unable to give), who disarticulated at the hip- joint, after dissecting up the soft parts from a large fibro-cartilaginous mass, with very trifling haemorrhage, having the aorta compressed by an assistant; and the patient made a good recovery. For the purpose of compressing the aorta with precision and efficacy, I have had a large horseshoe clamp constructed, with one end expanded, and covered with soft material for application to the back, while the other end receives a screw, which presses down an appropriate pad. This being gradually screwed down, at a point a little above and to the left of the umbilicus, I find that the pulsation in both femoral arteries can be completely abolished, without any serious uneasiness or unpleasant consequence." This instrument has been used on three occasions, in Mr. Syme's case of iliac aneurism, in an amputation at the hip-joint by Mr. Spence, and in another of the thigh ; in all it completely prevented the slightest flow of blood ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' viii, 431). nevus (telangiectasis). Professor Porta has published a monograph on this subject; its basis is formed of 101 cases observed by him (noticed in * Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1861, p. 1539). Professor Zeissl believes, that, as the rule, both vascular patches and collections of pigment depend on the tendency of children to resemble their parents. He has generally found on the father or mother vascular nsevi, though occasionally of very small size (' Wochenb. d. Zeits. d. k. k. Ges.,' 1862, p. 65). M. Demarquay has some remarks on erectile tumours in muscle ('Un. MeUand 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862,