RETORT ON PRACTICAL MKDKINK. 111 watery) All the ingesta arc to be thoroughly insalivated, liquids gradually withdrawn, thirst appeased by baths and enemata, and only medicines given in the fluid form. Ellis, G.—On Rennet Wine. Med. T. & Gaz., July 19th. Ellis states that haviug been disappointed in the use of pepsine, he devised the following preparation, which he finds extremely serviceable. He cuts up the fresh stomach of a calf into small pieces, which he puts into a bottle of good sherry, and leaves it corked for three weeks, at the end of which time it is fit for use. The dose is 3J in a wineglass of water imme- diately after meals. This will solidify in one to two minutes eight or ten ounces of milk. The stomach is to be wiped lightly with a dry napkin, taking care to remove as little of the clean mucus as possible. Fr^my.—On the Therapeutical Use of Malt. Monit. des Sc. Med., Dec. 1861. Brit. & For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July 1862. The solution of malt after macerating one hour in water at 1670 F., contains gluten in a soluble state. To the presence of this albuminised body the German physicians attribute the successful results they have observed in certain catarrhal affections of the bronchial mucous membrane, and in the different symptoms of dyspepsia. Fremy, after a fair trial of it, reports favourably of its employment in phthisis, cbronic bronchitis, and dyspepsia. The malt he employed was sent to him from Baruth, near Berlin, and is very rich in diastase; it also contains more lupulin than Parisian malt. Endemic Prevalence of Intestinal Worms. Bull. Gener. de Therap., Dec. 1861. Brit. Med. J., March 8th. The predisposition to intestinal worms, and the influence exerted thereby on certain diseases of children, vary much in different localities. Thus, while disorders from worms are so rare in Paris that many physicians deny their existence, they are remarkably severe in the south and west of France. The verminous diathesis is indicated by a pale puffy face, a vacant look, dilated pupils, pallid mucous membranes, and engorged cervical glauds ; the abdomen in such children is prominent, digestion is difficult, constipation and diarrhoea alternate, and the intellect is ill- developed. Ramskill; A. Clark.—On Podopkyllin. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 4th. Raniskill praises this drug as the most powerful cholagogue known. He gives half a grain with as much cxtr. cannabis ind. every six or eight hours. Combined with two or three grains of carbonate of soda, its action is rendered much milder. Clark gives half a grain with, or withon ipecacuanha a quarter of a grain, in extr. taraxaci every morning at break fast-time, to operate the next day. He states, that it is free from most o the objections that attach to ordinary laxatives, v., for a fuller accoun of its properties, Lancet, Feb. 22nd, and March 15th. Abbots, Smith, W.—On the Employment of Santonine as a Vermifuge. Med. T. and Gaz., March 8th.