REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 120 means of a bent silver wire, with a small knob at the end, which is dipped into the fused material, and thereby coated with it. Chromic acid must be used more cautiously; Lewin has not ventured to apply it to the deeper seated parts of the larynx; small fragments of the size of a pin's-head are carried by forceps to the locality desired. Numerous cases are related of success- ful cauterization and extirpation, some even in young children. With respect to the seat of the tumours, Lewin points out that if it be attached in front of the vocal cords, i. e., above the glottis, the inspiration will be more or less audible, according to the size of the growth, and the expira- tion which forces it out of the glottis more or less free; while if it be attached below the vocal cords, the expiratory current drives the tumour into the glottis, creates friction, and so becomes of whistling or sawing character. Gibb, G. D.—Lancet, Sept. 27th. Records a case of acute inflammation of the vocal cords, diagnosed and treated by the aid of the laryngoscope. The mucous membrane covering the cord was slightly tumefied, and of a bright crimson-red colour, while other parts were of a light pink. There was complete aphonia. Nitrate of silver solution (9ij ad Jj) was applied directly to the affected parts. The patient was seen quite recovered eleven days later, and reported that in one hour and a-half from the application of the caustic, her voice returned in full power and compass without any pain or effort. The larynx was now seen to be normal. Chambers, T. K.—Clinical Lecture on Acute Laryngitis. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 15th. Chambers says that he has never found any advantage in this disease from the use of antimony and mercury, and that he has ceased to employ them. Their deleterious actions are stronger in inverse ratio to the amount of tissue inflamed; and they are apt to cause dangerous depression in patients " who have already sustained the shock of being half stifled." He counsels at first mild restorative measures, local leeching, and inhalation of steam; in special favourable cases, venesection. If these are not speedily of avail, tracheotomy is not to be delayed one minute. Special care must be taken to support the patient well with nutriment by mouth, or rectum. Anstie.—Case of Diphtheric Croup. Med. T. and Gaz., March 29th. In Anstie's case tracheotomy was performed with " enormous relief" to the extreme dyspnoea, and the child, £et. seven, made a good recovery in from two to three weeks. The after treatment consisted at first of wine, beef-tea, and quinine ; afterwards, about the third day from the operation, when symptoms of pulmonary oedema set in urgently, the quinine was changed for carb. of ammon. gr. j 0. hord et dimid., and the wine for brandy, of which twelve ounces were given daily for nine days, without the least intoxication. Diphtheria wag very prevalent in the vicinity. Z1 simermann.—On the Treatment of Diphtheric Angina and Croup. Loud. Med. Rev., March. J. fiir Kinderlcrnnkheiten. Zimmermann applies externally to the enlarged glands of the neck a