GENERAL SYSTEM. 43 system becomes, as it were habituated to the poison, which is not eJimmated from the system as the patient recovers. Peacock, T. B., M.D.—Clinical Lecture on the recent Epidemic of Fever. Lancet, July 5th, 26th ; Aug. 9th. Peacock found typhoid very prevalent in the summer and autumn of 1861, and in the last three months of the year typhus appeared, became very prevalent in the winter, and continues to be frequent. Of thirty-ftyo Gases of typhoid, ten only occurred in winter and spring, and twenty-two in summer and autumn. Of thirteen cases of typhus, ten occurred in winter and spring, and only three in summer and autumn. Typhus was observed to be virulently contagious; nine of the nurses took the disease. The mean age of the typhoid cases was 19-9; of the typhus, 30-4 years. Typhus attacks more suddenly and more severely than typhoid. The typhus erup- tion is very trivial in the slighter attacks, in others it continued from six to fourteen days. In thirty-two cases of typhoid, only fifteen presented any spots. Peacock does not confirm the idea that the eruption in typhoid is less frequent in young persons, or that the intensity of the disease influences the occurrence of the eruption. In typhoid there is less marked and per- sistent cerebral disturbance, less rapid and complete prostration of strength, and more tendency to diarrhoea and other symptoms of gastro-intestmal complication than in typhus. In the recent epidemic the exceptions to these rides were more marked and numerous than they ever had appeared before. The total duration of active disease in typhoid may be estimated at forty-six days, and of indisposition at fifty-six days, whereas in typhus, the corresponding figures are thirty-nine and forty-two. Two of the thirteen cases of typhus proved fatal with no other morbid condition than pneumonia, and congestion of all the internal organs, and a fluid state of the blood. Of the thirty-two cases of typhoid, three proved fatal with intestinal disease in various stages. A case of typhus is recorded hi which there was very considerable intestinal disorder, yet after death Peyer's patches were found healthy ; and another in which typhus supervened during convalescence from typhoid. In the latter, if death had occurred, intestinal disease, or at least its traces, would have been found, together with the symptoms of typhus. Peacock warns against too free a use of stimulants in the treatment of either fever, and is more sparing in the use of astringents or opiates in typhoid than formerly. An improved diet may be allowed earlier in typhus than in typhoid. Ward.—On Enteric or Typhoid Fever. Med. Times and Gaz., May 24th. Prom the circumstance that the intermittent fever and the enteric cases admitted into the " Dreadnought" came from the same localities, Ward is led to the conclusion that the specific exciting poison of enteric fever con- sisted in some atmospheric influence, analogous to, not, of course, identical with, that which induces ague and remittent fevers. The following analogies of enteric with the latter disorders are noticed:—(1) It has a tendency to relapse; (2) It falls peculiarly upon the abdominal viscera, the ileum, the liver, and the spleen; (3) It prevails most at the season which most favours the development of remitting fever, viz., the close