REPOHT ON SURGERY. 224 modic contraction of the neck of the bladder, and the patient suffers from tenesmus for ten or fifteen minutes; at length the pain becomes less, and is lost in the sensation of heaviness and uneasiness about the prostate, which continues without intermission. This affection is very troublesome, but not dangerous ; the constant irritability of the bladder, the pain in micturition, may cause considerable mental depression. Under treatment its duration is generally short, and the cure is complete in eight to fifteen days. Sometimes the cystitis becomes chronic or the irritability of the bladder may persist, though unattended by other symptoms. M. Baizeau has found copaiba to have a very beneficial effect in these cases ; he commences with a drachm, which he afterwards in- creases, when the disease is obstinate and the remedy well borne, to a drachm and a half or even two and a half drachms ; the former quantity, or one but little larger, is generally sufficient ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1861, p. 457 ; see also p. 567). Mr. Barwell relies chiefly on quinine in the treatment of gonorrhceal rheumatism ; it must not, however, be given in the ordinary grain or two- grain dose, but in large quantities, five or even ten grains at a time ('Treatise on Diseases of the Joints,' p. 88). SYPHILIS. 'Researches on Syphilis, supported by Statistical Tables drawn from the archives of the Hospitals of Christiania,' by W. Boeck. Published at the expense of the Government. 4to, pp. 509. The basis of this work is formed by the registers of the hospital of Christiania for the long period of thirty years, commencing with the year 1826 ; the greater part of the volume is occupied by elaborate tables, the author noting in each case the more important points which it is his object to elucidate. Boeck believes in the unity of the syphilitic virus; he says, " the soft is produced by the same virus as the indurated chancre; the two forms arise fronf the intensity of this virus being different. Soft chancres are the product of the most energetic virus, which, by its in- tensity, developes in its circumference an inflammation which puts an obstacle in the way of absorption ; indurated chancres are the product of a virus of less intensity, which does not develop an inflammation sufficiently strong to hinder absorption. With matter of an intensity different from these, we obtain intermediate forms of chancre, in which, with all our experience, we are uncertain whether or not the primary affection will be succeeded by constitutional syphilis." He asserts that he has often inoculated the indurated form, and he explains the striking difference in his results from those of other observers in this manner :— " In following closely the progress of a certain number of chancres from their earliest stage, it will be noticed that at their outset they are quite identical and present ulcers with an abundant suppuration. But by slow degrees some of them, generally the smaller proportion, begin to become indurated, and as the induration proceeds, the suppuration will diminish, and the secretion become more and more serous. Inoculation practised in this stage will in many, and, perhaps, in most cases, give a negative result, and the more progress the induration makes, the more rarely shall