GENERAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 327 Simpson, Prof.—Fatal Peritonitis and Pericarditis during Labour, Ed. Med. Journ., May, 1862. The patient, having arrived at the full term of gestation, died some hours after the commencement of labour, very suddenly. She had on one or two occasions a slight escape of blood, but seemed in good health till a shivering fit and occurrence of pains ushered in the labour. The breech presented. The patient suddenly died soon after the nature of the presentation was ascertained. The abdominal cavity was found filled with serous fluid, with floating fibrinous flocculi; slight adhesions of intestines one to the other; the extremities of Fallopian tubes highly congested ; ovaries soft and pulpy ; the foetus firmly fixed in the brim. No local cause for the peritonitis was evident. There was slight laceration of the muscular coats of the uterus on its inner aspect at the level of the os internum. There was slight separation of the lower margin of the placenta. The pericardium also contained serum, and was the seat of inflammatory changes, GENEBAE ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF MOTHEE AND FCETTJS. G-assnee.—On the Variations in the Weight of the Body during Pregnancy and the Puerperal State. Mon. f. Greb., Jan. and Feb., 1862, p. 1. The author gives the results of examination into this question in 320 individuals:—(1) Variations in weight during the last three months of pregnancy.—The average addition to the weight was, during the eighth (lunar) month, 2'4 kilogrammes; for the ninth month, 1*69 kilo- gramme ; for the tenth month, 1-54 kilogramme. There are, however, considerable variations in this respect, the addition made being propor- tionate to the size of the individual. Pluripara?, again, differed from primi- paras, the former receiving an addition to weight, on the average of ^kilo- gramme more than the latter. "Where diminution of the weight was observed during the last months there were evident signs of defective nutrition. In cases where the death of the foetus took place, which was observed in three cases, a diminution in weight of from two to three kilo- grames within a space of from eight to fourteen days was noted. This is, therefore, an important diagnostic point where death of the foetus is sus- pected. The question arises as to the cause of the increase in weight above described. The author believes that it is, perhaps, in part due to the better feeding received by the patients within the hospital, but chiefly to the increase in the size of the foetus, and of the whole genital apparatus. There seems to be during the last three months a greater vitality, a greater capability of assimilating nutritive material. (2) Changes in weight consequent on delivery.—In 190 cases the aver- age diminution following on birth was 6-564 kilogrammes. When the delivery took place before term the diminution was less. In two cases of twins the mean diminution was n"8i5 kilogrammes. Where the quantity of liquor amnii was great, in cases of haemorrhage, copious alvine evacuation, &c, the diminution was necessarily greater, greater also in strong than in weakly women, and greater in multipara?,