;w; KKPOliT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. when the bursting of the cyst gave rise to inflammatory symptoms. She finally died of inflammation of the cysts, not of the peritoneum. Brown, I. Baker.—On Ovarian Dropsy ; its Natwe, Diagnosis, and Treatment—the result of thirty years' experience. London, Davies, 8vo, pp. 283. This work contains an account of the author's experience of ovarian dropsy, embodying also an account of forty-two cases in which the operation of ovariotomy has been performed by him. At the end of the volume the cases of ovariotomy are presented in a tabulated form, and a separate chapter is devoted to the analysis of these cases. The successful cases were twenty-two in number, the unsuccessful twenty. The youngest successful case was eighteen years of age, the oldest fifty- seven, while of the unsuccessful cases the youngest was twenty-one and the oldest fifty-five. Gceteris paribus, the author believes that a better chance of success is held out to the woman who undergoes the operation before she is thirty. In regard to the state of the health, in nine of the recoveries it was very good, in nine middling or indifferent, in four actually bad. In the unsuccessful cases, in five good health, in nine middling, in six bad or indifferent. Adhesions were present in thirteen of the^ successful cases, in seventeen of the unsuccessful ones. The pedicle was retained outside of the abdomen in thirty cases, in twelve it was inside. "With reference to the number of recoveries, the author states that it is, in proportion to the total number of cases, small, but that this is owing to the fact that several of the cases operated upon occurred many years ago, before the operation itself, or the indications for it, or the diagnosis of the disease, were so well understood as is at present the case. The late experience presents a much higher per- centage of recoveries than the former. The author states, in conclusion, that his experience teaches him to be more discriminating in the selection of cases for operation, to reject those where the health is much broken down, where the drain of albuminous matter by repeated tapping has been great, where the disease is of a colloid nature or otherwise materially departs from the true cystic character, and where, from the habits of the patient, other organs have suffered organically to the serious detriment of their functions; in cases of the description indi- cated operative interference appears entirely contra-indicated. Brown, I. Baker.—On Ovariotomy; the mode of its Performance, and the results obtained at the London Surgical Some. Eep. of Obst. Soc. of London, Lancet, March 22nd, 1862. The author alludes to the difficulty of the diagnosis of ovarian disease. "With reference to the operation itself, adhesions do not usually form an obstacle to the completion of the operation; they are broken down or divided by the knife or ecraseur. If the securing of any by ligature be necessary, the author uses silver wire instead of silk or twine, cutting the ends off close and returning into the abdomen. He advises the pedicle to be enclosed in a clamp, this to be placed as near the tumour as possible, and to be kept externally. It can thus be removed in two or three days. If the pedicle be very short, and there is much pain