AMPUTATIONS. 267 Dr. Mitscherlich has published a second paper on waterproof bondages (sec the 'Year Book,' 1861, p. 236) ; among other cases to which these bandages were applied, there were a number of resections 5 thus in eight cases of excision of the elbow which were all performed by Langenbeck by means of a longitudinal incision over the inner third of the olecranon ; in the after-treatment the elbow was placed at a right angle, the forearm between supination and pronation. Case 1, set. 22 years, excision for true anchylosis on 14th February, 1861, steady convalescence, left the hospital after about seven weeks. Case 2, set. 12, for caries and sinuses, excision on February 25th, 1861, next day a gypsum bondage, on the thirteenth day commencement of passive motion ; ultimately the arm became in mobility and power as good as the healthy one. In the third case the bandage had to be removed. The fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh were all successful, the eighth promised well. Two excisions of the knee were also baudaged in this way, with tolerable results; in one of the hip, death occurred from pyaemia on the fifteenth day ; the bandage, however, had not been applied till the sixth day. There is a report on excision of the elbow by M. Trelat ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, pp. 2,31, 238): M. Nelaton on excision of the shoulder (ib., p. 1.34)- Cases of excision of the knee on account of deformity (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 34, 276 ; 'Lancet,' 1862,1,406): excision of the shoulder in a very young child ('Lancet,' 1862, ii, 285): Prof. Szymanowski on resection of the finger-bones ('Canstatt,' 1861, v, 251). AMPUTATIOKS. Dr. E. Blasius recommends in certain cases an amputation of the foot a little nearer the heel than that of Chopart, the anterior half inch or so of the astragalus, and os calcis being sawn off: such an operation he calls a talo-calcanean amputation ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' ii, 521), Such a method is indicated on two principal occasions; when the soft parts are too far destroyed to allow the performance of the ordinary Chopart; and secondly when the anterior parts of the astragalus and os calcis are diseased. Disease of Chopart's joint, as Blasius expressively calls it, is generally confounded in the more general denomination of caries of the tarsus: sometimes, however, the disease is primarily a chronic inflam- mation of the synovial membrane, limited in character, and the bones only suffer to a very slight extent; not unfrequently, of course, the tarsal and tarso-mctatarsal joints are affected with the same disease. It is essential in the diagnosis to determine that the posterior portions of the os calcis and astragalus are healthy, that the ankle and calcaneo-astragaloid articulations arc sound -. conclusions which maybe deduced from a careful study of the history of the case, from the position of the specially painful spots, from absence of pain on pressure of the os calcis or astragalus, when the heel is pushed towards the leg, or when the person stands up, and finally by means of the probo and dilatation of the fistula:, if necessary, with the knife. The author does not agree with the statement, that the results of Chopnrt's amputation nre unsatisfactory: including seven cases of the