137 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. Billroth, Th.—On Peripleuritis fanning Abscess. Arch. £ Klin. Chir. ii, p. 133, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 1x3, p. 40. Billroth relates two cases, and observes, that many of the so-called " absces froids," especially those appearing to originate in or under the pectoral major, arc cases of this kind. They may be mistaken for encysted empyema, or periostitis of the ribs. As aids to the diagnosis, he mentions the commencement of the disorder with signs of a moderate pleuritis, the speedy formation of abscess at the corresponding spot, the relapses of pleurisy, the successive undermining of the skin, and the frequent perfora- tion of it, without notable fever. He thinks it not improbable that cupping may give rise to the disease. Goode, H.—On Patulous Openings through the Walls of the Chest. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 18th. Goode records five cases of thoracic effusion, in two of which perforation occurred spontaneously. In the last case the orifice has remained patulous for a series of years. It 'is kept habitually closed by a spring-pad, and every morning the accumulated fluid (Jiv - §v) is evacuated either through the orifice, if it is opened, or through the mouth, if that is closed. Occa- sionally hemorrhage takes place into the cavity and is discharged in the same way. The opening is about the level of the third rib, to the right of the sternum. Goode remarks, that for a patulous opening a situation high up is more convenient than a lower, though the latter may be more suitable for withdrawing the fluid in the first instance. Hill, W. K.—An Analysis of 220 Cases of Pulmonary Consumption. Brit. & For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan. (Sequel of Report in Year-Book for 1861, p. 93.) He shows that of 103 cases which took ol. morrh., 62-13 Per cent. improved, while of 71 who did not take it, but were otherwise similarly circumstanced, only 40-84 improved. The advantage of the oil was evident in all the stages of the disease, but was most marked in the early. As to the complications, there occurred among the 220 patients six cases of pneumo-thorax, seventeen of laryngeal affection, five of fistula in ano, three of tubercular meningitis, two of tubercular peritonitis, five of tubercle in the intestines (demonstrated by autopsy), three of albuminuria, three of diseased bones, one of diseased supra-renal capsules. In all the cases of pneumo- thorax there had been physical evidence of tubercular softening of the lung before it occurred, and in four cavities had been detected. With one excep- tion, the pneumo-thorax took place on the side most diseased, in five cases on the left. One case only made a good recovery. Males appeared to be more subject to laryngeal phthisis than females, in the proportion of 9-2 to 4-4. Leeching and vesication externally proved more effectual than appli- cation of nitrate of silver internally. As to the duration of the disease, Hill's experience leads him to fix a term of two or two and a-half years for uncomplicated pulmonary phthisis; cases of an acute character and those wliich are complicated by intercurrent disease terminating much earlier. The disease is most likely to be chronic in persons of advanced age, free from hereditary tendency, and from hectic symptoms. The points most