459 OTHER VEGETABLE PRODUCTS. either by electricity or any other stimulus. In a subordinate degree, the drug affects the motor nerves and, still more remotely, the volun- tary muscles, which, however, do not lose their excitability until long after the nerves have been deprived of their conducting power, so that green hellebore cannot be ranked among the muscular poisons, none of which have any action on the nervous trunks. The brain appears not to be affected at all; it is doubtful whether the functions of the spinal cord are modified or not, for the transitory convulsions which were ob- served in most experiments may be referred, with equal probability, to the diminished circulation of blood, arising from the primary action of the poison on the heart. Parish.—On the Preparation of Podopliyllm. Chem. News, April 26th. The process for preparing resin of podophyllum consists in exhausting the finely powdered root with strong alcohol, concentrating the tincture, and throwing it into water to precipitate the resin. According to Mr. Parish, six ounces of alcohol are required for the exhaustion by perco- lation of a pound of the root. The tincture thus obtained is evaporated to half its bulk, and thrown into four times as much water. The aqueous liquid is then heated in a water bath nearly to the temperature of ebullition, and rapidly stirred, when the resin collects in a fused mass in the centre of rotation. By kneading in water it becomes lighter in colour, and is then placed between folds of bibulous paper and dried in the air for use. By this method the root yields from 3 to 5 per cent, of its weight of resin. Sapindacece. T. Prakqtje.—On Paullinia sorbilis. Bayer. Intell. Bl., No. ij. Schmidt, vol. 115, p. 291. The author has employed guarana paste in numerous cases of hemi- crania, three of sleeplessness with nervous excitability, and seven of chronic diarrhoea in children. All the cases of hemicrania were invete- rate, and had been very variously treated without advantage. In all, the attacks were more or less periodical. They were not entirely pre- vented in any instance, but in four of the patients the disease was arrested by the administration of the remedy at the first appearance of the symptoms. In other cases the duration of the attack was short- ened, and the exhausting vomiting to which the patients were liable towards its termination was entirely prevented. The drug was given in powder, in doses of from four to ten grains to adults. Doses of from sixteen to twenty grains produced giddiness, tinnitus aurium, and sensa- tions, of pricking and cold, extending to the whole cutaneous surface. Stilesen.—On the Fatty Extract of the Horse-chestnut. Porhandl. ved. de Skand. Naturforsk. i. Kjobenhaven, p. 354. Schmidt, vol. 113' p. 163. The oil of horse-chestnuts is obtained by digesting the powder of the dried fruit with ether for eight days ; the greater part of the ether may be recovered by distillation. By this expensive process eight and a haif