127 K KSl'IltATORY SYSTEM. Roger and Colin.—On the Diagnostic Value of Jerking Respiration. L'Union Med., izo, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 174. Transitory jerking, Eogers says, has no pathological significance. If it is permanent it denotes some hindrance to the entrance of air into the lungs, caused by tuberculosis or pleuritic adhesions. It occurs very rarely in the early period of tuberculosis, and is on the whole a sign of small value. Fonssagrives and Vizerie.—On Enlargement of the Bronchial Glands in ■ Adults. Ai-ch. Gener., xviii, Dec. 1861. Journ. de Bord., March 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 175. In diagnosis Fonssagrives lays most stress on palpitation; he says, if the hand perceives an increased vibration, or a friction at a limited spot of either subclavicular region, and if there is heard at the same time a strong sonorous rattle limited to these spots, it is very probable that the lower part of the trachea, or one of the bronchi, is compressed by a tumour. The lungs generally contain no, or but little tubercle. The glands in the neck are sometimes enlarged. In one case most violent attacks of suffocation and aphonia were occasioned by a number of enlarged glands pressing on the left recurrent nerve. Almost all the cases were fatal. Wiedemann—Rochard.—Cases of Disease of the Mediastinum. Inaug. Diss. Tubingen, 1856. L'Union, 119, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 307. Wiedemann records a case at the autopsy of which the anterior medias- tinum was found filled with layers of solid exudation, while the pericardium was inflamed and contained six ounces of pus. The mediastinal effusion appeared to have resulted from long-continued pressure on the sternal region. It exerted during inspiration a constrictive action on the aorta, in consequence of which the pulse at that time was much weakened, though the heart's contractions continued. Rochard removed a fibrous tumour as large as a goose's egg from the anterior mediastinium. Peacock, T. B.—Two Cases of Obscure Pulmonary Disease following Typhoid Fever, in which Pus was expectorated in Large Quantities, and the Patients recovered. Med. T. & Gaz., April 26th. The first case was a girl, aet. 6, who recovered after a prolonged illness, having had profuse diarrhoea, pyaemia, and suppm-ation in various parts of the body. Peacock believes the expectorated matter to have come from an interlobar pleural abscess. In the other case the predominant symptoms were those of cerebral disturbance during the fever, while, during convales- cence, cough and difficulty of breathing came on, which were suddenly relieved by the purulent discharge. This probably came from an abscess in a bronchial gland pressing on the left bronchus. Leared, A.—On Haemoptysis in Influenza. Lancet, May 3rd. Leared records four cases in which this symptom occurred together with catarrhal affection, which ceased after a time, and recovery took place.