FEVER. ACCOMPANYING SURGICAL AFFECTIONS. 193 The knee was painless, and not in the least swollen ; after removal of the bandage it had become again somewhat flexed, so that at some later period it will require re-extension. It results from this and similar cases that in latent, even in very- chronic, suppurations, the feverish condition is of long duration, and very liable to recur, and that such patients are extraordinarily sensitive to even the slightest causes of fever ; on the other hand, rapid and high augmen- tations of the temperature, or rigors, are rare. In cases of profuse suppuration the fever has no more definite type than that of a remittent with evening exacerbations and morning remis- sions. It is either a simple or continued remittent; rarely, however, does it run a uniform course for any length of time. The causes, that excite or relieve fever in cases of external suppuration, are so much more numerous than those that influence it in internal and specially tubercular suppuration that we may clearly refer its great irregularity in the former to this circumstance. In joint suppurations such causes are presented in the newly forming abscesses, the spreading inflammations, the necessary incisions or punctures, which are continually exciting fresh attacks of fever or contributing to its mitigation ; when a free exit is made for the pus, the fever decreases for a short time, until an examination of the wound, cleansing of the sinuses, further spreading of the suppuration, or some such irritation, again excites it; this they do all the more readily because, as already mentioned, such cases are extremely sensitive to fresh traumatic irritations. Effects of inanition.—The patients, especially if old, seem to become exhausted with great rapidity from these surgical suppurations. Ex- haustion so much reduces the action of the fever producing x (unknown cause), that a high temperature can no longer take place, even when there is an abnormal irritability ; the temperature may become normal, and yet the case must be considered one of fever. In these patients the small and often very frequent pulse and particularly the general condition, will be safer guides as to prognosis than the temperature. Causes of rigors in fever.—Their principal condition is a very rapid increase of temperature; another is a peculiar irritability of the patient, which may vary much in different cases or in the same case at different times. This point is of importance, for there are yet surgeons who con- sider the rigors in pyaemia as necessarily dependent on blood-poisoning, and who conclude, when the former are present, that the latter must also be so. When the thermometer is placed at the commencement of the rigor in the axilla, and the temperature is noted every quarter of an hour to the termination of the attack, it is found that there is a continued and rapid increase in the temperature up to the beginning of the warm stage, when there commences a slow decrease. For example, in a case of rigor after urinary infiltration from an injury of the urethra the already high temperature of 39-7° increased in one hour to 42-1° (n£ a.m.), and fell then very slowly, in six hours, to 38-8° (5^ p.m.). Reaction of the fever on the wound, and on the future pyrexial symptoms. —The appearance of the wound and the tendency to disintegration of the tissues and to diffuse forms of inflammation are proportional to the con- tinuance of the fever, the frequency of its paroxysms, and the deteriora- 13