432 REPOET ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. almost simultaneously, tlic respiration being affected more slowly, the heart and voluntary muscles more rapidly, than when similar quantities of the salt were employed. From these and other experiments the author concludes that the action of iodine and iodide of potassium (particularly the former) is exerted more on the function of respiration than on any other; that the heart is more affected by iodine than by iodide of potassium ; and that, as regards the latter, the rapidity of the effect varies directly with the dose, the variation being greatest in the time of arrest of the heart's action. Sensibility ap- peared to be annulled in all the experiments. It having been observed in the preceding experiments that when small doses of iodide of potas- sium were employed the paralysis of the respiratory movements was preceded by a certain degree of excitement, the effect of injecting the solution by a single drop at a time was next investigated. The first drop invariably accelerated the action of the heart and increased sensi- bility, and it wras not until six drops had been injected that the normal rate of breathing was restored and the paralysing effect of the drug began to be manifested, so that a much larger dose was required to produce the same action than when the whole quantity to be used was injected at once. The transmission of the paralysis by the nerves to the peripheral organs having thus been demonstrated, it remained to determine in what part of the nervous system the poison centres its action. With this view experiments were undertaken, which consisted in exposing the spinal cord at its upper and lower end, and applying the solution to it in drops. "When the upper end of the cord was acted on, it was found that the phenomena of paralysis were induced far more rapidly than when the same quantities were injected into the cellular tissue. Mus- cular contractility was annulled by two drops, in two thirds of the time before required for the production of the effect even when three drops had been used; and in the one case the heart's action ceased three hours and twenty minutes sooner than in the other. The first application of the solution was attended with marked convulsions and signs of pain. The author infers from these experiments that the in- tensity of the action is three times as great when applied to the upper end of the cord as when injected into the cellular tissue, and that it is through this part of the nervous system that iodine and iodide of potas- sium, when introduced into the circulating blood, affect the organs of respiration and circulation. When the solution was applied to the lower end of the spinal cord, toxical effects were produced more slowly and with less intensity than when the same quantities were injected into the cellular tissue. Rosenthal.—On the Absorption of Iodine Compounds. Wien. Med. Halle, vol. iii, No. 20, 1862. The author's investigations were conducted under the superintendence of Professor Schneider. As regards the internal administration of iodide of potassium, his experiments were made on himself, the quan- tities taken daily being at first from four grains to a scruple. These produced increased secretion from the salivary and pituitary mucous