FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. 479 even the smallest quantity of water enters the air-passages ; but in drown- ing "it is a constant and certain fact that it penetrates both into the trachea and lungs," where it is found, not as water, but in the form of the mucous foam above described. Infanticide by drowning is illus- trated by Cases 27 to 30. In some of these cases the victim was thrown into cesspools, or other receptacles for fecal matter. In these, the formation of foam in the air-passages was inconsiderable, a circumstance which the author attributes to the density of the liquid. The same thing was observed in a case in which an infant was drowned immediately after a meal, and a quantity of chyme had found its way into the larynx and trachea. A final section is devoted to four cases, in which it was impossible to assign a cause of death, owing to the length of time which had elapsed since the event. These cases were too various to admit of general descrip- tion. The third part of this lengthy paper comprises the diagnosis of pregnancy in medico-legal cases, the detection of simulated pregnancy, and the signs of recent delivery. It contains no new facts of importance. Eyan.—Infanticide: its Laio, Prevalence, Prevention, and History. London, i2mo, pp. 266. After discussing the present aspects and past history of infanticide in this and other countries, and particularly in the metropolis, and investi- gating the causes of its prevalence, the author advocates, as the best means of prevention, improved moral and general teaching, and "wise laws, prompt to punish the guilty, while beneficent in protecting the guiltless." As amendments of the law, he proposes that in charges of child-murder, the proof that the child met its death by violence should carry conviction of the crime, but that the punishment should vary according to the extenuating circumstances. As means of diminishing the inducements to infanticide, he asks tbat the putative father of an illegitimate child should be legally compelled to contribute, according to his income, to its support. FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY'. Testamentary Capacity. Gairdner.—Remarks on certain Medico-legal Aspects of the Maclean Will Case. Edin. Med. Journ., p. 797. The ground of this action, which was decided in the Court of Session was, that in 1861 the testator was insane, or if not insane, "weak and facile, and easily imposed upon," at the time of the execution of the deed. Colonel Maclean, a military officer, set. 82, wbo had served for forty-three years, for the most part in India, died at Cumbrae, after several "seizures of a supposed apoplectic or epileptic character." No post- mortem examination took place; but Dr. M—, his medical attendant certified "softening of the brain, of nine months' duration," as the cause of death. Some of the attacks were stated to have been accompanied by unconsciousness and loss of the power of voluntary movement others not From the mode of death, Dr. M— was of opinion that the immediate cause was apoplexy. It was suggested by the prosecution that the symptoms