REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 1 J L A difference in the amount of expansion during inspiration is thus clearly indicated. Joset.—On the Medical Properties of the Wild Thyme, and particularly of its Use in Spasmodic Cough. Rev. de Therap., Feb. 1862. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Eev., July. Joset has observed an infusion of wild thyme, slightly sweetened and mixed with gum, to effect surprising improvement, and even cure in cases of pertussis, taken indifferently at all periods of the disease. The same was the case in stridulous sore-throat, and in convulsive and catarrhal coughs. Thorburn, J., M.D.—On Pulsatile Respiration. Brit. Med. J., Sept. 20th. Thorburn reports a case in which a soimd synchronous with the cardiac systole, but ceasing when the breath was held, was heard along a line roughly corresponding to the anterior edge of the left lung. There was no evidence of disease of heart or lungs. Thorburn is inclined to attribute this sound to undue functional vascular impulse, on the one hand, and on the other, to undetectible pulmonary adhesions near the heai-t or great vessels. Tobold.—On the Local Treatment of the Respiratory Organs. Deutsche Klinik, No. 22. Tobold describes an apparatus constructed by Matthieu, which he uses, by which the medicated spray is injected into the open mouth, and so inhaled more thoroughly, as experiments with animals prove. He also praises the efficacy of turpentine inhalations with nitrate" of silver cauterization in laryngeal polypi. Roger, H.—On Generalized Emphysema. Revne de Therap. Med.-Chir., April 1st, 1862. This form depends on escape of air from the pulmonary cells during violent respiratory efforts, such as attend paroxysms of suffocative dyspnoea occurring in double pneumonia, or the convulsive paroxysms of pertussis. It is much more frequent in children than in adults; fifteen out of nineteen cases were under four years of age. Death occurred in fifteen cases out of nineteen, sometimes in a few hours or less. In treatment full doses of digitalis with opium must be employed to calm the violent respiratory efforts which give rise to the emphysema. Stimulant frictions may perhaps hasten the absorption of the effused air, or in urgent cases it may be re- moved by a capillary trocar. Salter, H., M.D., F.R.S.—Lancet, July 26th. Records a case of pulmonary hemorrhage with formation of ramified coagula of blood in the bronchia. He attributes the hemorrhage to leakage from an aneurism, the patient being an old man of sixty-eight. He remarks on the frequent difficulty of the diagnosis between haemoptysis and hrematcmesis.