REPORT ON PRACTICAL M KDIG'INK. 1(>4 Baudon.—Bull, tie Therap., July 1862. Recommends Bmeariug the affected part early with solution of chloride of iron mixed with laudanum. IIebua.—On the Continuous Application of Warm Baths to the Whole Surface in the Treatment of Skin Inflammations. Allgem. Wiener. Med. Zeitung. Loud. Med. Rev., Jan. 1862. From observation of the facility with which lesions of the mucous sur- faces repair themselves, Hehra is satisfied that the one important element of cure in skin diseases is maceration; and that when this can be assiduously carried out by any means, the cutaneous surface will repair its lesions with equal facility to the mucous. He gives the details of three cases in which patients suffering with cutaneous lesions have been subjected to prolonged immersion in warm water, 88° to 990 F. The first was a case of obstinate psoriasis, who bore the treatment well during periods of twenty-four, thirty-six, and forty-eight hours, but did not improve notably. The experiments were spread over six weeks. The second was a case of severe burn, where the immersion was continued for twenty-one days con- tinuously, and with the best effects. The third patient was the subject of a frightful and inveterate pemphigus, and was kept in the bath a hundred days with the best results. The pulse and respiration became less frequent, the appetite increased, the secretions were normal (except the urine, which seemed somewhat diminished), and the weight increased fourteen lbs. The animal heat increased as the frequency of the pulse declined, so that the temperature of the bath was lowered to 88° F. Hardy.—Bev. de Therapeiit., March, 1862. Edin. Med. J., April. Treats pityriasis by sulphurous baths, sulphur internally, and pomades of sulphur or nitric acid—e. g. sulphuris, gr. xv, vel acid, nitrici, til, xv> a^ axungite ^j, nr. bis die utend. The diet to be plain. Hunt, T.—On the Diagnosis, Pathology, and Treatment of Lupus. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 4th. Hunt recognises only two distinct forms of lupus, viz., lupus exedens and lupus non-exedens, the hypertrophic and serpiginous varieties being but accidental deviations, and the erythematous being not lupus but syphilis. After describing the two above-mentioned forms, he lays down the following marks of diagnosis from other affections:—(1) In syphilis the edges of the sore are copper-coloured, red, or livid in lupus; in syphilis the health is generally broken, in lupus not; in syphilis destruc- tion proceeds more rapidly than in lupus, and pursues a different course, advancing from the throat or palate outwards, while in lupus it proceeds from the nose inwards; syphilis has certain characteristic antecedents, which lupus never has. (2) In scrofula the glands are first attacked, in lupus the skin; scrofula does not attack the nose and mouth, lupus seldom spares them; the skin round a strumous ulcer is always livid, round a lupous mostly red; the discharge from the strumous sore is copious and purulent, from the lupous glutinous and scanty; the strumous habit is rarely found associated with lupus, and when it is scrofula disap-