406 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. clinical aud physiological, will be found in his paper on the pathology of obstructive phlebitis and the nature and proximate cause of phleg- masia dolens, in vol. xxxvi of the « Medico-Chirurgical Transactions,' but the whole subject has in the present work been very differently treated, and the facts themselves very differently arranged. Instead of giving priority to the physiological researches, priority has here been given to the clinical, and the question of the proximate cause of the disease has been worked out from clinical facts alone. The definition of the disease given by Callisen and Hull—a tense,elastic, hot, painful swelling, which, generally extends rapidly over the whole of one of the lower extremi- ties, the skin retaining its natural colour, or even becoming whiter, and presenting more or less of a shining appearance—is the one adopted. The author compares this condition with that present in phlebitis as described by surgical writers, and states that it is impossible not to re- co nise a great discrepancy between the two. Phlebitis, or, as it is termed, " crural phlebitis," cannot in a pure, uncomplicated form give rise to all the several and diversified lesions, involving disturbance in the sensorial, motorial, and secretory functions of the limb, met with in phlegmasia dolens, and cannot, therefore, be its proximate cause. The etiology is then considered. From an analysis of 60 cases, it appears that it occurred in 8 cases after the first labour; in 8 after the second ; in 3 after the third ; in 5 after the fourth ; in 6 after the fifth; in 1 each after the seventh, tenth, eleventh and twelfth pregnancies. An analysis of the cases did not show auy necessary connection between undue severity or difficulty in the act of parturition or infliction of mechanical injury and the occurrence of phlegmasia dolens. Thus, of 38 cases, the labour was natural in 22, severe only in 10. Febrile and in- flammatory disturbances precede the attack probably, but these do not seem to be produced by the labour itself or by any injury sustained during the parturient act. With reference to the side affected, the general result was that the left lower extremity is more liable to the attack than the right, which is connected, the author believes, with—1, the greater frequency of attachment of the placenta to the left side ; and 2, to the greater relative disposition to decumbency on the left side. As to the date of attack, no particular period seems liable. Out of 57 cases, in but 43 it began within twenty-one days after delivery. The puerperal actions and constitutional conditions peculiar to the three weeks following parturition constitute, it is contended, the predisposing rather than the exciting causes of the attack. The occurrence is deter- mined strictly in all cases by the supervention of some casual cause of bodily derangement, of febrile disturbance, or of inflammatory action. Thus, in 33 it followed some form of puerperal fever; 13, ex- posure to cold ; 3, dietetic errors ; 3, operation of epidemic influences ; 4, tubercular disease of the lungs ; 2 followed quickly upon severe and protracted labour. A febrile movement, variously induced, seems thus the bridge or connecting link between the act of parturition and the final development of the disease. The 33 cases of phlegmasia dolens produced by puerperal fever are further analysed. In 14 of these the labour was of a severe and protracted character, and it may, therefore, be presumed that some injury was sustained by the uterine organs cal-