MINERAL ACIDS. 427 J. Gr., £et. 40, was admitted into the Edinburgh Infirmary, at 8 p.m., with symptoms of irritant poisoning. He was then quite conscious and in great pain, but would give no information as to what drug he had taken. There were no erosions of the skin or lips, but the mucous membrane of the mouth had a whitish, bleached appearance. Death took place five hours after admission, and (as was subsequently ascer- tained) about nine hours after the "vitriol" was swallowed. It was preceded by gradual sinking, with occasional groans and gestures ex- pressive of pain. The body was examined sixty hours after death. The following were the most unusual of the post-mortem appearances, which are minutely recorded in the paper:—There was no blackening of the lips or disorganization of the mucous membrane of the mouth, although both of these changes were observed in the lower two or three inches of the oesophagus and in the splenic half of the stomach. The absence of perforation was probably referable to the previous existence of food in the organ. The strength of the acid taken could not be ascertained. The author remarks that whereas in cases of poisoning by sulphuric acid the pylorus is usually so tightly constricted that the liquid does not pass in any quantity into the intestine, the whole of the lining of the jejunum had been acted on in the present instance, and had assumed a tanned or leathery appearance, which ceased abruptly seven or eight feet from the pylorus. Leydeit ; Mene.—On Poisoning by Sulphuric Acid. Virchow, vol. xxii, P- »37-. . The inquiries of the authors relate to two fatal cases of poisoning by sulphuric acid, in both of which, in addition to the usually recognised effects of the poison, there was acute nephritis. During life the urine contained blood and albumen; in one case there were fibrinous casts and epithelia, and in the other cellular elements only. The micro- scopical examination of the kidneys after death afforded evidence of a recent inflammatory process (granular opacity and fatty degeneration of the epithelial elements, recent cleaving of the nuclei of the inter- stitial tissue, particularly along the course of the vessels). Both cases were of long duration, and it was observed that the quantity of albumen in the urine diminished from day to day. In order to confirm these results the authors poisoned a small greyhound with dilute sulphuric acid (1:4), and killed it after a few hours. The existence of an acute inflammatory process was evidenced, both by the anatomical changes which had taken place in the organs themselves and by the examination of the urine. Nitric Acid. Ec-Ttf.— Case of Poisoning by Nitric Acid. Wien. Med. Halle, vol. ii, No. 36. Schmidt, vol. 113, p. 293. A youth, set. 18, took an unknown quantity of aqua fortis for the purpose of committing suicide. His state a few hours afterwards was as follows:—Mucous membrane of the mouth and fauces covered with dirty-yellow sloughs; vomiting of a blackish-brown liquid; pain referred to the gullet and epigastrium; rapid, thready pulse, thirst, coldness of