FUNCTIONS AND SECRETIONS OF THE LIVER. 7 not necessary for life that the blood should be purified of the constituents of saliva by excretion through the salivary glands. No blood poisoning occurred. The only change observed was that the animals took more water than usual. Digestion was not in the least interfered with ; and Fehr meets the objection, that there might have been in these cases a vicarious increase of the function of the pancreas, by stating that he never found that organ enlarged, even after the animal had existed for a long time without salivary glands. Sugar was found in the hepatic vein as usual, and Fehr concludes therefrom that sugar may be formed in the liver without saliva taking any part in the process. Danilewsky's researches were made in the Pathological Institution of Berlin. They led to the following results : 1. Both the natural and the artificial pancreatic juice effect, outside the living body, three specific, physiological reactions:—a. It transforms starch into sugar, b. It dissolves in a characteristic manner coagulated albumen. c. It reduces neutral fats into their corresponding acids and glycerine. 2. Each of these reactions is brought about by a specific substance. 3. Two of these substances—the two, namely, which produce the first and second reactions—can be obtained in a more or less pure form. 4. The existence of a third substance, which effects the third physiolo- gical reaction of the pancreatic juice, is highly probable. 5. The specific substance, which corresponds to the first reaction, acts in neutral, alkaline, and acid solutions, but with different degrees of intensity. 6. The digestion of fibriue in natural and in artificial pancreatic juice, and in a solution of the isolated specific substance by which the second reaction is effected, has nothing in common with a process of putrefaction, but is entirely due to a physiological property of the juice, and more especially of the specific substance. 7. This last-named substance exerts its power of digesting fibrine only in neutral and alkaline solutions. 8. The quantity of free alkali contained in a solution of the pure specific substance has a great influence on digestion. 9. A surplus of free alkali, and the presence of free hydrochloric acid, prevent the digestion of fibrine in a solution of the specific substance. 10. The manner in which fibrine disappears in natural and in artificial pancreatic juice, and in solutions of the pure specific substance, is entirely opposite to the way in which it is digested in gastric juice. 11. The two specific substances, which correspond to the first and second reactions of the pancreatic juice, are not pure albuminous sub- stances. 12. Both these substances belong to the colloid group. THE FUNCTIONS AND SECBETIONS OF THE LIYEB. Fuara, AvsTis.—Experimental Besearches into a new Excretory Func- tion of the Liver, consisting in the removal of Cholestearine from the Blood, and Us discharge from the Body in the form of Stercorine, American Journal of Medical Science, Oct., 1862.