293 TONGUE. molar tooth to the angle of the jaw would cross it at right angles about half an inch from the tooth. An incision, therefore, in the direction of such a line, three fourths of an inch in length, and carried through the mucous membrane to the inner surface of the bone, must divide the nerve. It is advisable to operate with a curved bistoury, since the alveolar ridge would shield the nerve from the edge of a straight knife. It is also advisable to be exact in observing the position of the alveolar ridge, or in its absence, the edge of the toothless gum curving up to the ramus. In one of Mr. Moore's earlier cases, in which there were no teeth to serve as a guide, he cut too far back, and missed the nerve, being probably misled by a mass of the tumour which was adherent to the inner side of the jaw. The first case reported by Mr. Moore is as follows :—" A slender, pale, sallow, red-haired Scotchman came into the Middlesex Hospital under my care, late in June, 1861, for cancer of the tongue. The disease occupied almost the whole organ : a small portion of its tip was still healthy, but all else that was visible was a mass of hard tumour, partly ulcerated, partly covered with thin, dark-red, scar-like, mucous mem- brane, or with thick, tenacious mucus and epithelium. There was a deep, ulcerated hollow on the left side, about the middle, and behind this the posterior and left side of the tongue could be felt to be still unaffected. " The poor fellow suffered severely. The pain, which had at first affected the left temple, had changed sides with the disease, and he now had much pain in the tongue and the right side of the jaw and temple, and a soreness of the whole crown of the head. He expectorated with difficulty about a pint and a half of saliva in twenty-four hours. He had scarcely any sleep, and took very little nourishment. Some cervical glands on both sides of the neck were hard, swollen, and tender. "July 3rd, 1861.—I divided both gustatory nerves behind the last molar teeth, with a curved bistoury. For a few days he complained of sore- ness in the situation of the incisions, and he still had deep pain in the back of the tongue and throat; but with these exceptions he was instantly and in every way relieved. The flow of saliva was at once arrested. The pain in the head was completely gone. He took food with compara- tive ease, and was able to sleep; and it was interesting to observe that, as his general health and nutrition improved, the sallowness of his counte- nance, which had appeared to indicate the fabled cancerous cachexia, gave place to a look of health. His tongue was frequently examined, and it was found to be absolutely without feeling throughout the part supplied by the gustatory nerves. The dorsum and sides in front of the fauces were quite insensible even to a prick or a scratch which made the surface bleed. The patient himself spoke of the tongue as being quite benumbed and painless, and he moved it about without reserve in his efforts to speak. He was not entirely without pain, but his state for a month after the division of the nerves was very much more comfortable than before. He hirtfself was quite decided as to the value of the treatment to him. "August 15th.—The tongue is still insensible to touch, and to the taste, as well as the touch of sapid substances placed upon it. None of them appear to stimulate the salivary glands in the least. On one occasion since the operation, he has complained of pain in the crown of the head, but it soon passed away, and did not return. He is, however, in much