308 HEP OUT ON SUltGERY. ment; 2nd, the absence of projection or of dulness on percussion in the anterior part of the abdomen; 3rd, the flattened form and deep sent of the engorgement; 4th, the position and pain of the thigh; 5th, the absence, during two months, of every sign of affection of the intestine or the peritoneum, which react so rapidly in the case of abscess within or under the peritoneum. The commencement of the disease was insidious and its progress slow. The purulent collection discharged itself by the intestines, —a mode of termination, which is generally favorable in the case of iliac abscesses, but, from anatomical reasons, of unfrequent occurrence in the sub-aponeurotic variety. The tympanitis, the constipation, the jaundice, and the nausea indicated the extension of the abscess towards the intestine; and perhaps to the purgative, which was followed by the discharge of pus, should be attributed the honour of the success. The rapidity and permanency of the cure showed, no doubt, that the intestinal perforation, contrary to what usually happens, was sufficiently large and direct in this case. The free and abundant discharge of pus is of such importance, that, if any external swelling had appeared, there would have been no doubt as to the propriety of making another opening with the bistoury even at the time, when evacuation by the intestine was taking place. The next case is an example of the subperitoneal phlegmon ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 57):—A soldier, set. 22, of delicate constitution, was admitted into Val-de-Grace on the 23rd December, 1861. On the previous evening, he had complained to his regimental surgeon about dull pains all over the abdomen, which he attributed to exposure to cold. Both the pain and the general symptoms became continually worse, so that on the 24th December the symptoms resembled those of acute peritonitis : face anxious and drawn, extremities cold, pulse thread-like, thigh flexed on the abdomen, dysuria, constipation, nausea, but no vomiting. Through- out the night, the patient screamed for pain ; the extreme sensibility of the abdomen prevented any examination ; twenty leeches had been applied on the preceding evening, and he was now ordered thirty more; an ether-draught and some opium were also prescribed. On the 25th, the pains had become more localised in the right iliac fossa; the general condition was very much improved ; the skin soft and moist; the pulse fuller ;— he was ordered fifteen leeches, opium, and a hip-bath. December 26th : the patient has had some bilious vomiting; he is better, and has some appetite; mercurial inunction, hip-bath. December 27th: very gentle palpation allows us to feel a firm mass, which is fusiform in shape, and placed along and above Poupart's ligament; it is about a decimetre in length, and seven centimetres in breadth across its centre : the consti- pation continues: mercurial inunction, hip-bath, enema. December 20th: pain diminished; the patient bends somewhat forwards in walking, owing to a difficulty he experiences in extending the thigh on the pelvis; this difficulty seems to be simply caused by the tension of the skin, nnd the consequent compression of the tumour ; for, when the patient is lying down, the thigh can be completely extended and abducted, provided the integument is pushed upwards from the lower extremity. Leeches were again applied on January 2nd, the baths and poultices were continued each clay; the patient was discharged, perfectly cured, on the 10th of