424 REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. with that observed before the bath, is in proportion to the duration and degree of the previous depression. It then slowly declines, but does not completely subside for the rest of the day. The effects of the cold bath on the temperature of the body are evidently among the most im- portant of its actions. The analysis of the urine shows that the increase is associated with more active metamorphosis of tissue, indicated by increased excretion of urea, uric acid, chloride of sodium, and other inorganic constituents of the urine. Tor it was distinctly observable that on those days on which the maximum of temperature attained was highest, the excretion of solids (and particularly of urea) by the kidneys was greatest. The weight of the body appears to be unaffected by the cold bath. The daily loss of weight by transpiration remains un- altered or slightly diminished. Considering that more carbonic acid is expired in proportion to the more active metamorphosis of tissue, this result is opposed to the usually received opinion that the use of the cold bath tends to increase the activity of the cutaneous functions. It thus appears that exchange of material and metamorphosis of tissue is promoted both by cold and warm sitz-baths. In the case of the warm bath this result is certainly not explained by the immediate effects observed, for the slight increase of temperature, diminished action of the skin, and greater fulness of the pulse, cannot be supposed to affect the exchange of material in a sensible degree. As regards the cold bath, some influence may be ascribed to the diminution of cutaneous tran- spiration, the contraction of the muscular structure of the skin, the increased determination of blood towards the internal organs, and the cooling of the body ; but the relation between these facts and resulting changes in the process of nutrition, as indicated by the quantities of excreta, is so variable and inconstant as to afford no sufficient basis for theory. The author is compelled to fall back on the agency of the nervous system as a main coefficient in the production of the result. Clemens.—Contribution to the Elucidation of the Physiological Action of Baths. Med. Centr. Ztg., vol. xxx, Nos. 53, 59. Schmidt, vol. 113, p. 161 (see 'Tear Book,' i86t, p. 102). In his previous rearches on the influence of baths on the " exchange of material," the author observed that the addition to a bath of a soluble salt or a decoction of spruce produced an immediate increase of the quantity of urine, and that this effect attained its maximum of intensity within fifteen or twenty minutes of the addition. To deter- mine the nature and degree of this alteration, the following experiment was made:—The quantity, specific gravity, and solid constituents were determined for six successive periods of fifteen minutes preceding im- mersion in the warm bath, during immersion (forty-five minutes), and after the addition of decoction of spruce (thirty minutes). During the first fifteen minutes of immersion the quantity of urine (as compared with the fifteen minutes before) was nearly doubled, the chloride of sodium and urea slightly increased, the phosphates and other non-volatile saline matters quadrupled. In the following thirty minutes this effect gradually diminished, but on the addition of de-