RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 131 cause of fche apathy and somnolence observed in many eases. They also find that the hepatised region after recovery does not completely regain its full resonance; there is more or less weakening or abbreviation of it. ( Schallverkiirzung.) Chrastiua states, that pneumonia causes one-tenth of tin- diseases of old persons, and one-eighth of the deaths. He ranks the cases as (i) Primary pneumonia, which is mostly lobar, runs its course very rapidly to purulent infiltration, and is not attended with distinct prodromata, or notable fever. Parotitis is a frequent complication, and of had omen. The pneumonia may be marked by cerebral phenomena. (2) Broncho-pneumonia, which does not differ from the same affection at other ages. (3) Hypostatic pneumonia, which is prone to occur in those who are obliged to fie on their backs for a length of time on account of a fracture, paralysis, &c. Part III. consists of a set of cases, illustrating various important points. Gauchet records one case of typhoid pneumonia, which he considers, with Grisolle, as a primitive lung disease, assuming a malignant character, or one resembling that of typhoid fever, from indi- vidual or atmospheric canses, and certainly distinct from the pneumonia of typhus. Camerer records a case of copious haemoptysis coexisting with pneumonia in a female free from tubercle, and with no cardiac disease. Part IV. deals with treatment. Huss pursues a middle course between busy interference in all cases, and doing nothing. He has seen pneu- monia in all its stages get well, even under the most unfavourable circum- stances, when the patients have been left to themselves. In several of the cases abscess had formed, and in one limited gangrene. He recommends in the stage of congestion venesection, which may be repeated the next day if hepatisation has not occurred. The most suitable time is that of 6he evening exacerbation. Cupping or leeches, saline aperients, cold or warm applications, are also useful. In the graver cases, where the pulse does not yield to venesection, or where bleeding is contra-indicated, tartar emetic in one grain doses, secundis horis is advised. In the stage of red hepatisation Huss dispenses with venesection, but administers tartar emetic, gr. i secundis horis, if the pulse be large and full, or tense, or oppressed, not if the pulse be small, weak, irregular. He also gives hydr. c. creta or calomel, grains ij, secundis horis, in cases unsuitable for tartar emetic ; ol. tereb. in cases where grey hepatisation is to be feared; camphor when the nervous power is failing ; senega as an expectorant, &c. In the stage of grey hepatisation he relies on ol. tereb., camphor, ammonia, and, after some improvement has taken place, he gives quinine. Passing over his treatment of consecutive diseases and complications, we notice the following important observations relative to pneumonia coexisting with delirium tremens :—(1) When there are signs of cerebral hyperemia, as furious delirium, reddened face, full tense pulse, he applies C. C. riuchae, purgative encmata, tartar emetic gr. j—ij secundis horis ; opium is injurious before the fourth day, but may then be useful if sleep is prevented l>y hallucinations. If muttering delirium continues, with a pale, collapsed tace, a small and very frequent pulse, and the pneumonia is still unre- solved ammonia, turpentine, and tonics may still effect a cure. (2) If there be delirium without symptoms of cerebral congestion or mania/no special regard need be paid to the delirium ; it passes into a deep sleep as