UKPOHT OX MI DWri'KH Y, ETC. Schwabz (Fulda).—On the Post-mortem Omaarean Section. Mon. f. Geb., Supp. vol. 1861, p. 121. This is an extended inquiry int o the history and value of the operation in question. The conclusion come to is that the operation is practically useless, because never successful in saving the child. Of 107 cases in which the operation was performed in dead pregnant women in Kur- hessen, between the yeai-s 1836 and 1848, including a time during which there occurred 336,941 births, not one living child was extracted, the result being the same whether the operation was performed in private practice or in lying-in hospitals, where the facilities for diagnosis are greater. Breslait.—Post-mortem Cesarean Section; Living Child. Mon. f. Geb., July, 1862. The author's advice was requested in the case of a woman pregnant for the third time, in the thirty-third week of pregnancy, who had been for some time tbe subject of pneumonia, great dyspnoea, prostration, and apparently in a dangerous condition, and with a view of deciding on the performance of the operation for the induction of artificial prema- ture labour, in order to save the lives of tbe mother and child. There was anasarca, pulse 120, orthopnoea; the diagnosis made was hydro- pericardium and softening, or recrudescent pneumonia on the right side. The child's movements were to be felt, but the heart could not be heard. It was decided to bring on labour. The membranes were punctured a little above the os by a metallic stilette, through a gum- elastic catheter; a tolerable quantity of liquor amnii escaped. The patient was placed in the horizontal position, the better to facilitate certain subsequent manoeuvres, when she suddenly ceased to breathe, and could not be resuscitated. After twelve or fifteen minutes fruit- lessly spent, it was evident that the patient was dead. Not the slightest pulsation could be detected by auscultation over the cardiac region. The accouchement forcd was tfirst attempted, but this was evidently im- possible to effect without exercising undue force. The Cesarean section was forthwith decided on, and the necessary incisions made with an old bistoury, the only instrument to be procured. The child was removed stillborn at not less than fifteen minutes after the patient had ceased to breathe. Slight pulsation of the heart was the only sign of life. Finally, a first, second, and third respiration was induced, with long intervals. It appeared that attempts at breathing had commenced in utero, for the mouth, throat, and nose were full of the mucous secretion of the maternal passages. The presence of this interfered with intro- duction of air, and the author removed it by aspiration, making use of his own mouth. After an hour's uninterrupted work, rubbing and other measures having been had recourse to, the child was fully restored, breathed regularly, and cried loudly. It was premature, weighed four pounds. It died between six and seven hours afterwards, exhausted. The author considers it probable that the death of the mother was owing to the change of position.