PALATE. 301 91 : Anon., ib., 1861, ii, 537: Professor Langenbeck, ib., 1862, i, 44: Mr. Field, ib., 57, 78: Mr. Pollock, ib., 144). Dr. Kade has published the following case of congenital fissure of the hard palate on the left side, accompanied by cleft soft palate and harelip on the same side:—Uranoplasty and stapbyloraphy, operation for hare- lip, perfect cure ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeits.,' iii, 19).—A peasant, Iwan Dmitrjeff, seventeen years old, was admitted into hospital on the 20th of December, 1861. His speech was nasal and very unintelligible ; swallowing difficult, for fluids generally passed into the nares; and solid portions were taken do^vn with trouble. The soft palate was split into two sym- metrical halves ; it was very imperfectly developed ; the greatest distance between these portions was two centimetres. The fissure of the hard palate reached to the alveolar process ; it diminished in size as it advanced forwards, and terminated opposite the middle incisor tooth on the left side. The palate process on the right side deviated from the horizontal direction, as it approached the fissure, and fiually ascending almost vertically, became continuous with the vomer; the palate process on the left side was quite horizontal to its termination at the fissure. The greatest breadth of the fissure in the hard palate, on a level with the horizontal process of the palate-bone, was one centimetre. The whole length of the fissure from the incisor tooth to the uvula, amounted to twenty-eight millimetres; that of the hard palate was twelve millimetres long, and therefore that of the soft palate was sixteen millimetres in length. Both the teeth and the alveolar process were perfectly normal. The lip was divided on the left side by a fissure, which reached into the left nasal cavity. "Operation, 9th January, 1862.—The patient was placed on a stool, with his head thrown as much as possible backwards. In performing this operation, I followed almost entirely the directions of Langenbeck ; it thus consisted of— " r. Paring the edges of the fissure.—As it is of the greatest importance that this should be done with accuracy and not be impeded by the bleeding, the knife should decidedly advance from behind forwards (from below upwards). In fixing and rendering the parts tense, the tip of the uvula should be seized with hooked forceps; the knife should then be passed about two millimetres from the edge of the fissure and close before the forceps, passing through the soft palate from before backwards and a little obliquely from without inwards ; the edge may then be pared by long, saw-like motions of the knife, as far as the posterior case of the hard palate. The top of the uvula may be pared finally with the scissors. " It is more easy to pare the edges of the hard palate: for this purpose I have found it most convenient to stand behind the patient, and to fix his head against my breast. I also use the same position for making the lateral incisions and for separating the soft parts from the bone. The knife should be steadily carried from behind forwards, cutting the mucous membrane and periosteum down to the bone at a distance of two milli- metres from the fissure. " 2. I now make the lateral incisions, and thus deviate from Lauren- beck, who divides in this stage the muscles of the soft palate. I prefer leaving the myotomy to a later period, as by so doing, I finish all about