ItUPOltT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 15G the rhizome contains, in addition to the usual constituents, two resinous principles, one soluhle in alcohol and ether, the other soluble in alcohol only. Of these, the former alone possesses active properties. It consti- tutes four fifths of the whole quantity of podophyllin, or resinous matter extracted by alcohol, contained in the rhizome. Podophyllin is prepared by pouring gradually into water, kept in constant agitation, the treacly liquid obtained by evaporating the tincture yielded by percolation. The resulting precipitate is repeatedly washed and dried at a low tem- perature. Prom this substance the pure, active resin may be obtained colourless by re-solution in ether and treatment with animal charcoal. Hy- drastis Canadensis.—This plant is commonly known as the orange root; as in the case of podophyllum, the officinal part is the rhizome, with its rootlets. When fresh, it has a well-marked narcotic odour, and on section exhibits a bright-yellow centre, surrounded by a dark-coloured zone. According to the analysis of Durand ('Ainer. Journ. of Pharm.'), it contains, along with the usual constituents, a dry, acrid resin, a yellow colouring matter, and a nitrogenous, crystalline sub- stance, regarded by him as an alkaloid (hydrastine), which is easily obtained by precipitating the watery extract with magnesia, and treat- ing the precipitate with boiling alcohol; on evaporation, beautiful, four-sided crystals of hydrastine are obtained. The therapeutical use of hydrastis appears to depend entirely on the alkaloid it contains, which possesses tonic and antiperiodic virtues second only to quinine. Xanthorrhiza apiifolia.—This drug is employed in America as a tonic similar to quassia, which it resembles in the intensity and purity of its bitterness. It is indigenous in the mountainous parts of the western states, particularly on the banks of the Ohio. The true root is the officinal part. Caulophjllum thalictroides (Berberidaceaj).—This plant is supposed to have been employed as a parturifacient for ages by the abo- rigines of the northern states, in all of which it is indigenous. The rhizome, with its attached rootlets, is the only part used in medicine; it contains a resinoid principle, which is prepared in the same manner as podophyllin. It is also said to contain an alkaloid. The resin (caulo- phyllin) is employed principally as a tonic, in doses of a quarter of a grain to a grain three times a day. It is believed to possess properties similar to those of ergot as a parturifacient, for which purpose it is given in fre- quent doses of two or four grains. Jeffersonia diph/lla (Berberidacea?). —The rhizome and rootlets of this plant are commonly used, and well known under the name of rheumatism-root. Its properties, both che- mical and therapeutical, resemble those of senega root. It is commonly regarded as emetic in large doses, and tonic and expectorant in smaller doses. Sanqidnaria Canadensis (Papaveracea;).—Under the name of Puccoon, the rhizome is well known both as a paint and as a medical drug in common use among the Canadian Indians. Its most important constituent is an alkaloid (sanguinarine), which lias been obtained in a state of perfect purity. Its salts are remarkable for the crimsou or scarlet colours of their solutions, and for their acridity and pungency. The alkaloid is supposed to exist in the rhizome as an organic acid salt, to which the acridity of the drug may be attributed. It is identical with the alkaloid chelerythrine, discovered by Probst in