227 SYPHILIS. three days the form of the sore becomes changed, the glands are no longer hard and indolent, the nearest gland has already become larger and painful ; tne pus of this (mixed) sore is now inoculable on the patient himself, and will continue to be so for three weeks or more. Mr. Henry Lee ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 353) records a good specimen of the mixed sore. A patient had a superficial suppurating sore, which secreted well-formed pus, and was inoculable. He was treated without specific remedies. When the sore healed, it became surrounded by a well-defined induration, which terminated abruptly. This indura- tion increased instead of diminishing, as the wound cicatrized. Secondary symptoms followed. M. P. Diday, 'The Natural History of Syphilis, and its Treatment,' ('Gaz. HeboV 1861, p. 277, and 'Edin. Med. Journ.,' vii, 277).—"Since March, 1855, up to the present time, I have carried out the non-mer- curial treatment in the cases of nearly two hundred persons affected with constitutional syphilis. I have full notes of a hundred and thirty of these cases. Among these individuals I have seen the disease, thus left to take its natural course, be sometimes mild ; sometimes, and more rarely, severe. Now, this difference among the cases has its cause ; it manifests itself by special symptoms; it suggests therapeutical deductions in relation to its essence. Let us examine successively these three points. " Causes.—Acquired syphilis always commences by a lesion more or less ulcerative in character. This lesion—the primary infecting ulcer— appears under two distinct forms:—1st, the indurated, or Hunterian chancre; 2nd, the chancriform erosion. "Of the second lesion, the name only is new; for the affection, which it designates, has existed at every period, and several authors have already described it. It is, in fact, the parchment-like chancre of Ricord, the chancrous erosion of Bassereau, the superficial erosion of Langlebert, the venerola vulgaris of Evans, the chancrous excoriation of Carmichael, the condylomatous affection of Rinecker. The chancriform erosion has a double origin; it may be produced either by contact with a similar sore or by contact with a secondary lesion. It is by this affection that syphilis is most usually propagated; for, more indolent than the chancre, it is better adapted than it for being submitted to that species of contact by which the morbid transmission takes place ; and, more contagious than the secondary lesion, it fails less frequently than it to produce infection in those who are exposed to contact with it. " Starting from these fundamental notions, we can now determine in what the degree of intensity of a syphilis depends; in other words, why in one case the disease shall be severe, in another mild. This depends either upon the source from which the virus has been derived (conditions proper to the infecting subject), or upon the organism on which it exerts its effects (conditions proper to the subject infected). " In the first place, as to the source : the fluid of the infecting subject is more or less active, according as it is derived from an hereditary syphilis, from an indurated chancre, from a chancriform erosion, or from a se- condary lesion. And by the expression more or less active I mean two things ; first, that the fluid in question shall have more or less power of transmitting the disease; and, second, that the disease, when transmitted,