REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA JIEDICA. 450 plained of a persistent feeling of tension in the muscles of the left side of the neck and back, but the convulsive attacks had entirely ceased. Irom this time he speedily recovered, and on the sixth day was quite well. The poisonous substance taken in this case was, as usual, contained in a bit of bamboo, and consisted of a reddish-brown, coarsely granular mass, in which prismatic crystals could be distinguished under the microscope. These crystals were supposed by the author to be strychniue; they constituted 60 per cent, of the mass. Hanson.—A case in which Nux Vomica was successfully employed to combat the effects of Poisoning by Aconite. Boston Med. Journ. Bull, de Ther., vol. lxiii, p. 277. A child of five years took a poisonous dose of tincture of aconite. "When first seen, he was insensible; the pulse was weak and irregular, the breathing slow (five respirations per minute) ; the limbs relaxed. As vomiting could not be induced by tickling the fauces or otherwise, and the condition of the child appeared desperate, the author gave tincture of nux vomica in repeated doses of three drops. After the first dose the impulse of the heart became stronger, the breathing deeper and more regular, the other symptoms passed off, and the child recovered. Quinine. Sohlockow.—On Certain Actions of Sulphate of Quina. Studien der physiol. Inst, zu Breslau, pp. 163—176, Leipzig, 186I. Schmidt, Vol. 115, p. 121. The inquiries of the author were directed to the action of fatal doses of quinine on the functions of the heart and organs of respiration. Babbits and frogs were the animals experimented on; the drug was administered by the mouth and rectum as well as by injection into the subcutaneous cellular tissue. In frogs poisoned by quinine it is observed that the conjunctiva? lose their sensibility, that the heart's action is at first retarded and finally arrested, and that its irritability is destroyed. The breathing becomes irregular and intermitting, and at last ceases. Automatic movements cease, and those provoked by mechanical irritation are wanting in co-or- dination. In rabbits similar effects are produced. In a rabbit under the influence of quinine no acceleration of the heart's action takes place on dividing the vagi of both sides; and if the drug is administered to a rabbit in which these nerves have been previously divided, the heart's action is retarded in the same degree as in other experiments; whence the author concludes that this effect is not dependent on irritation of the pneumogastric, but on paralysis of the sympathetic ganglia or of the muscular structure of the heart. Gelineau.—A case in which serious symptoms were produced by a small dose of Sulphate of Quina. (Journ. de Med. et de Chir.) Bull, de Ther., vol. lxiii, p. 234. A young lady, a3t. 23, nervous, and of delicate habit, took, about half- past 5 a.m., about six grains of sulphate of quinine, for the purpose of I getting rid of an irregular intermittent fever. At seven o'clock she