17 CIltCULATION. forced through the occipital bone, and a bodkin passed in between the atlas and the skull. The spinal cord was irritated by means of two bodkins which were introduced into its substance—the one high up, the other low down. The results were as follows :— i. Slight electric irritation of the medulla oblongata augments the frequency of the heart's action. 2. Strong electric irritation may diminish the frequency of the heart's action. 3. Very powerful irritation puts a stop to the heart's action. 4. If this powerful irritation be suspended, the normal action of the heart may slowly restore itself, and it is then again possible to increase the frequency of the pulse by slight irritation. 5. Powerful mechanical irri- tation of the medulla oblongata diminishes the frequency of the heart's action. 6. By means of appropriate irritation the suspended action of the heart may be reincited. 7. When both sympathetic nerves are divided, slight irritation of the medulla oblongata produces, nevertheless, an increase in the frequency of the heart's action. 8. When both sympa- thetic and both pneumogastric nerves are divided, 110 increase in the frequency of the heart's action is produced by irritation of the medulla oblongata. 9. Neither is any increase produced in that way when the pneumogastric nerves only are divided. 10. It follows that the irritation is conducted to the heart through the pneumogastric, and not through the sympathetic, nerves. 11. Slight irritation of the spinal cord in- creases, powerful irritation diminishes, the frequency of the heart's action. 12. The effect of the irritation was manifest when the pneumogastric nerves only were preserved, but also when the sympathetic nerves only were preserved. 13. The effect ceased when both pairs of nerves were divided. 14. The irritation of the spinal cord is therefore transmitted to the heart through the sympathetic as well as through the pneumo- gastric nerves; through the former directly, though the latter, most likely, by reflex action. Grolz's researches on the action of the heart have induced him to adopt the following theories :—1. The pulsating parts of the frog's heart constitute together a system of small, independent apparatus, each of which is possessed of a ganglionic central organ. 2. These small nervous centres are capable of being incited to action by various stimu- lants, and this action manifests itself, according to its intensity, in more or less protracted contractions of the muscles, governed by the stimulated centre. 3. Blood which contains a certain amount of gas is to be reckoned among the stimulants. 4. A sudden contraction of any part of the heart acts slightly stimulatingly upon the neighbouring parts. Thus, when a stimulated part contracts, the contraction spreads like a peristaltic movement, according to laws which depend upon the connection of the nerves with the ganglions. 5. All parts of the heart are not equally stimulated by the blood. The nearer to the venae cava) a part is situated, the greater is its irritability. 6. In the normal contraction of the heart the most irritable part— that is, the neighbourhood of the venae cava;—commences the systole; and the other parts, by means of their nervous connection with that spot, continue the contraction. 7. The reason why the heart acts rhyth- mically may, perhaps, be found in the following circumstance. As 0