112 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINK. talis infusion into tiic jugular vein. The cymographion showed, before the injection, a pressure of 124 millimetres, which rose in four minutes to 260, and declined in ten minutes to 176. Repetition of the injection caused immediate fall of the column, and speedy arrest of the heart's action. Holm, W. — The Physiological Action of Helleborus viridis. Wurzb. Med. Ztschr. ii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 183. Death results from paralysis of the heart apparently from a direct action upon its muscular tissue. The motor nerves lose their power, and sub- secpiently the muscles their contractility. The brain does not seem affected, nor the spinal cord. Wunderlich.—On Digitalis in Typhoid Fever. Med. T. & Gaz., July 12th. The quantity of this drug required for producing decisive effects is smaller in typhoid patients than in those suffering from pneumonia and other acute diseases, and varies from thirty to sixty grains to be taken in three to five days. The chief diminution of the pulse takes place on the fourth or fifth day of administration, when the rate is slowed by from thirty to sixty beats. This occurs simultaneously with a marked decrease of temperature, and the pulse after some time even falls below its ordinary velocity. This effect is much more permanent than that upon the temperature, and often lasts for several weeks in succession. The medication described is free from danger, provided that it be at once discontinued if the velocity of the pidse de- creases rapidly. It merely abates the fever, and has no direct influence on the changes in the intestinal canal. It should therefore only be used when the febrile symptoms run high, the pulse being at 120, and the evening temperature at io8Q F. with slight morning remissions. Dybkowsky, W.; Pelikan, Eug.—On the Action of various Heart-Poisons. Ztschr. f. Wissensch. Zool., xi, p. 279, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb. vol. 115, p. 170. The authors experimented with frogs chiefly, and administered the poisons by the mouth or by subcutaneous injection, either alone, or after the vagi had been divided and the medulla oblongata destroyed, or whilst an interrupted current was transmitted through the vagi. The poisons used were the upas antiar, and the alcoholic extract of the tanghinia venenifera, extract of veratrum viride, and digitalin. The relative potency of these poisons in the order just given is as 4 : 3 : 2 : 1. The following are the results they obtain:—(1) The heart ceases its action, although the frogs are still quite excitable, and can even hop about voluntarily for some time. (2) All these poisons exert their principal paralysing action upon the heart in whatever way they are introduced into the system, while sulphocyanide of potassium never does so. (3) The ventricle of the heart always remains strongly contracted, and is almost quite empty and pale, while the auricles are distended and full of blood. Sulphocyanide of potassium, on the contrary, causes dilatation of the ventricles. (4) The heart's contractions are at first sometimes accelerated, sometimes retarded, so that at least in many cases it is probable that the cardiac nerves are