285 EYE. disseminata are less in size, often polygonal, and frequently arranged in groups, which appear to correspond to the intervascular spaces. Glaucoma. Mr. Bowman on glaucomatous affections and their treatment by iridec- tomy ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, ii, 377).—The invention of the ophthal- moscope forms an epoch in the history of ophthalmic science. " A glaring example of its value is to be found in its bearing on the subject of glau- comatous diseases, the name of which, indeed, is old^ but the knowledge and the practice are all new. These diseases now begin to admit of accu- rate definition, of exact discrimination, and in many cases, of the most admirable cures ; diseases which, six years ago, marched on unchecked to more or less rapid destruction of sight. And I do not scruple to say that, were the scientific knowledge of them, now possessed by a few, diffused universally among all the members of our profession, failure of sight from this cause in Great Britain would be to a considerable degree prevented, and total blindness would be rare indeed." After tracing the progress of iridectomy in the treatment of glaucoma, the author points out that the augmented tension of the eyeball is the characteristic symptom, which chiefly concerns practitioners. It should be distinguished at the earliest stage, and towards its mitigation the treatment is to be directed. As a practitioner having to relieve disease, Mr. Bowman calls all undue tension of the eye glaucomatous tension. The object of treatment is to reduce this within natural limits; for if it continue, the result is inevitable, however delayed. Mr. Bowman has found it possible and practically useful to distinguish nine degrees of tension; and for convenience and accuracy in note-taking has designated them by special signs. The idea of inflammation must be dissociated from that of glaucoma and glaucomatous tension. Though often com- bined, and the combination then of the greatest importance, yet their coexistence is not essential to the presence of either; and as a matter of fact, they occur independently of each other every day. After describing three principal forms of glaucomatous disease—the slow non-inflammatory, the subacute, and acute inflammatory forms, Mr. Bowman writes that one of the most interesting cases " I have had is that of the coroner for a borough in Suffolk, a lawyer of middle age, who some two years ago, had acute glaucoma successively in the two eyes in the course of a few months. For each he came to consult me ; for the first, after about four days ; for the second, within the second day, each eye being at the time all but blind. I instantly in each case, performed iridectomy, and pursued no other treatment. The relief was immediate. The first eye regained an extended, though not a complete field of vision, the nasal side remaining blind, while with the axis of the retina he could read No. 4 of Jaeger (a small type). The second eye recovered perfect sight, and the amendment in both eyes continues, so that he has ever since uninterruptedly pursued all the duties of a very active professional life, and calls sometimes to express his gratitude—a gratitude I feel to be rather due, like that, I rejoice to say, of many hundred other sufferers in various countries, to von Graefe." Table of twenty-five cases of syphilitic inflammation of the choroid and