REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 11G and third costal cartilages. He finds the intensity of the murmur to vary greatly, and that within a very short time. It is increased by the heart acting more vigorously and at the end of a full inspiration. He does not beliove the murmur to be anaimic, but to result from pressure exerted by a tuberculiscd lung on the pulmonary, subclavian, or some other large artery. The chief value of the murmur depends on the circumstance that it attends the earliest stage of phthisis, that, namely, of tubercular deposition. Druitt, R.—Med. T. & Gaz., July 19th. Records a case in which a venous clot, twenty inches long, was found in the right auricle and ventricle. It was tubular, firm, pale, and lay coiled up and partly surrounded with soft fresh fibrine. The right and left pulmonary artery and their leading branches contained also soft, loose, fibrinous plugs. The patient, a male, set. forty-two, had had symptoms of subacute rheumatism, with some oedema latteidy of both hands and feet. The usual obstruction symptoms supervened suddenly. Ranking, W. H.—Brit. Med. J., Oct. 4th. Records a case of crural phlebitis (thrombosis) unconnected with preg- nancy or the parturient state. He recommends free leeching, if there be local pain, and subsequently friction with mercurial liniment, the inclined position, keeping the limb warm, and the administration of ammonia and iron. Trousseau.—J. de Med. & de Chir.-Pratiq., vol. xxxiii, p. 106. Draws attention to what he calls pseudo-chlorosis, i.e., a state of ana?mia depending on the tuberculous or syphilitic diathesis. It is useless to administer iron in these cases, especially in the first it is decidedly injurious. Goodfellow, S. J.—Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xlv. Records two cases of extensive arterial obstruction from separated cardiac vegetations followed by gangrene of the lower extremities and death. Both were females, one rather robust, aet. 30, the other spare and feeble, art. 17. In the first the mitral valve was covered with very large vegetations, and the substance of the organ beneath and around the seat of the vegetations was infiltrated with a yellowish puriform matter, which in some parts was exceedingly soft. In other parts of the wall of the ventricle similar friable deposits were observed. The arteries and veins of the lower limbs were obstructed by firm coagula, the arteries as far down as the division of the popliteal. At some parts the arteries were imbedded in dense fibrous tissue, and at others curdy puriform matter waa deposited between the coats, in one spot forming a small abscess. There were extensive fibrinous deposits in the spleen and kidneys. In the second case the pathological state was very similar, but there was sanguineous extravasation into the cavity of the arachnoid and plugging of some branches of the middle cerebral artery. Goodfellow remarks, that where there was partial arterial obstruction the inflammation was of the adhesive character, and the exuded matter was susceptible of some organisation;