REPORT ON 1'KACTICAI, MKJ1K INK. ■IS unfrequent at tlie same time. When tliere had been much heaviness, stupor, or coma before death, the vessels of the membranes were always found full, and the pia mater looked opaline from interstitial effusion, and there was a variable quantity of yellow serum at the base of the brain and in the ventricles. Under the microscope it was seen that large exudation corpuscles were numerous in the white matter near the surface of the hemispheres, and the smaller blood-vessels were covered with closely-set nuclei. The head-symptoms may come on suddenly and violently, or cerebral affection may ensue more gradually, increasing with accessions of fever. The heart in yellow fever is not fatty, at least, not necessarily ; its fibres are pale and their transverse stria; indistinct, and the interposed vessels were beset with nuclei and exudation, as in the other viscera. The blood and effused serum always contained urea. The condition of the lungs varied much; sometimes they were quite normal, at others they showed evidence of acute congestion. Lawson is satisfied of the correctness of the older view, that the yellow fever, presenting albuminuria, renal and vesical desquamation, and absence of the chlorides, may be frequently remittent, or even quite intermittent. Lawson gives tables which show that fever in Jamaica is a disease of season, the period for which is well defined at each station, and that these periods differ materially at different stations, though in the immediate neighbourhood of each other. He believes that yellow fever originates from local causes, and not from contagion. A case is related where four healthy zones in an encampment included and alternated with three unhealthy, and though the sick were removed to the healthy zones, the disease made no progress in them, though fresh cases continued to occur in the unhealthy. The miasm giving rise to yellow fever appears to be distinct from that causing re- or intermittent, but complicated forms may occur. In the way of treatment Lawson has not much to propose. He has seen the disease cut short by an emetic and calomel with purgation, and he thinks nothing is of more importance than to re-establish the secreting function of the colon, and to obtain feculent, not mere bilious, evacuations. The congested state of the kidneys must be kept in view and dealt with in the usual way. Large doses of quinine he is sure are often injurious, and alcoholic stimulants should not be employed too lavishly or in unsuitable cases. Sistach.—On Arsenic in Intermittent Fever. Gaz. des Hopit., Oct. 26th, Nov. 9th, 1861. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 1st. Sistach gives about I gr. of arsenious acid, four times a-day, until the fever is cut short, afterwards £ gr. ^ gr., or £ gr. The results seem to have been favourable. Leriche.—On Tannin as an Antiperiodic. Bull. Gen. do Therap., Nov. 15th, 1861. Brit. Med. J., March 8th. Leriche says that in intermittent fever twenty-two to thirty grains of tannin should be given two or three hours before the setting in of the paroxysm. Two or three doses are generally sufficient to produce a cure. If the fever be obstinate fifteen grains are given in divided quantities to bo taken every hour.