REPORT ON SURGERY. 194 tion of the general nutrition. The turgor of the granulations and the quality of the secretion may therefore in many, though not in all, cases serve as a measure of the action which is proceeding in the organism. Each attack of fever also has an influence on the future course; this may be traced with peculiar clearness in the cases attended by rigors. The irritability of the whole nervous system usually becomes increased after the first few attacks ; the wounds become extremely sensitive, the slightest cause excites a fresh febrile outbreak, and the patient becomes mentally much depressed, thus a man who has been formerly very firm will even weep and despair of recovery. At first the rigors often recur, for some time becoming more severe, and then diminishing, both in number and intensity; if, at the same time, the emaciation augments, the pro- gnosis may be considered as almost certainly fatal, whatever be the tem- perature. In such cases the general condition and the appearance of the wound settle the prognosis. V. Fever in the Metastatic Dyserasia {Purulent Diathesis, Common Pycemia with or without Thrombosis and Emboli). The author does not admit the existence of pyaemia unless there are metastatic inflammations, multiple centres of inflammation, and a great tendency to suppuration in various parts of the body. He then divides the cases into those in which the metastases can be proved to depend on emboli, which are comparatively rare in surgical practice, and into those in which no emboli can be traced, but where purulent inflammations appear to arise spontaneously in the lungs, the liver, the joints, the muscles, the subcutaneous cellular tissue, &c. As to the explanation of the latter cases, he remarks that observation clearly proves that fever really represents the response of the central organs to the peripheral ner- vous irritation, and specially to that kind of nervous irritation caused by inflammation. On the irritability of the central organs depends the greater or less severity of the fever symptoms. A frequent repetition of the irritation augments at first the irritability, then exhausts it, and leads to complete prostration and ultimately death ; the latter is also hastened by the interference with the general change of tissue, a function so necessary to life. Thus, in order to explain the death, it is unnecessary to have recourse to the supposition of blood-poisoning. As to the metastases to distant parts, we can only answer that, owing to spreading suppurative inflammation of one part of the body, and the fever connected with it, the tendency to inflammation becomes so great that new centres of the same affection form at various spots. Possibly the cause is in some cases a peculiar condition of the blood, though not a putrid infection ; sometimes,; perhaps, an external irritation, such as slight pressure, exposure to a cold atmosphere, or occasionally, as in some cases of joint-affection, from a, direct spread of the inflammation. Death generally ensues from inanition caused by the fever and suppm ration.—The pyoemia takes its origin from the local disease, and not from a miasma, and the patients die from exhaustion induced by a fever, which is beintr frequently nourished by fresh inflammations. The more frequent the attacks of fever and the less the stamina of the patient, so much the*