REPORT ON SURGERY. 252 the ligature is not placed nt too great a distance, the two obliterations are continuous with one another, and the blood, having only a single obstacle to overcome, triumphs almost witli certainty. These considerations are supported by the present case; the first obstruction, though in the aorta, did not produce gangrene ; but a second having occurred, gangrene was the result. M. Broca considers that the temperature may occasionally be of use in determining the point of obstruction, for the artery is obstructed at the point, where it i3 elevated ; it is true that the plug can often, but not invariably, be felt with the finger, and on the other hand, there may be no pulsation, and yet there may be no obliteration. In a second case (ib., p. 516), Broca clearly proved, that the increased heat was not owing to an arteritis, for the temperature directly over the vessel was only + o-6° higher, whilst on other points of the circumference it was at the same time + 20. In a case under Mr. Erichsen ('Lancet,' 1862, i, 600) the first symptoms appeared on August 4th; the gangrene gradually extended to the knee, where it appeared to stop on August 10th; on August 24th amputation ; sloughing of the stump; death on September 13th. Mr. A. L. Adams reports a case of recovery after amputation ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 156): the first symptoms appeared on the 25th of February ; the gan- grene gradually advanced, but at last a line of demarcation formed across the leg immediately below the calf, and became fully developed on the twenty-second day; on the following day, March 19th, when he was under the influence of chloroform, the limb was removed by the circular operation at the lower third of the thigh, after a vain attempt to operate under the knee, where the bellies of the gastrocnemius were found in a state of slough, and gangrene spreading upwards and beneath the external line of demarcation. For about two and a half years, the patient had had a femoral aneurism on the same side; it decreased in size from the date of the accident, and two months afterwards completely disappeared. Other cases of embolus with gangrene of the extremities are recorded by Dr. Goodfellow ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,'xlv, 367), Dr. Stoffella ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1862, pp. 373, 384), M. llichet ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 206), Dr. Rosenthal ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1862, pp. 205, 213), and Mr. P. Hewett (clinical lecture, 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 354). M. VeJpeau reports a case of simple fracture of the leg/terminating in sudden death after three weeks, from an embolus blocking the pulmonary artery ('Arch. G6n.,' 1862, i, 752). VEINS. Mr. Wood describes a new operation for the radical cure of varicose veins ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1861, ii, 377). Mr. J. Adams gave a clinical lecture on a case of wound of the internal jugular; the bleeding was arrested by pressure, and the patient had no unlavorable symptoms up to the 30th, the accident having occurred on the 9th (ib., 1862, ii, 125)-