4 tS ltEPOBT ON TOXICOLOGY AN13 MATERIA MEDICA. Attempts were made to introduce liquids into the mouth, hut ijjva- riably produced general convulsions, in which it was observed that the I constrictors of the pharynx were first affected. The patient was then bled to sixteen ounces, after which (at eleven o'clock) the face was less congested, but the convulsions were equally intense; sinapisms applied to the lower limbs increased the spasms. About six or seven o'clock the paroxysms became somewhat less violent. On the next day fifteen i leeches were applied to the mastoid processes, and injections of wine and beef tea were giveu alternately. Towards evening the patient was in a comatose condition, which continued to the middle of the fol- lowing day. After this she gradually recovered consciousness, but began to complain of a sensation of burning, extending from the pharynx to the epigastrium, which was accompanied with complete anorexia and sickness. The intolerance of food lasted for six weeks, during which the diet consisted of milk and bouillon only. As soon as the convulsions bad ceased it was found that all the muscles were flaccid, a condition which increased for several weeks after the accident, and was followed by marked muscular atrophy of the aftected part. At the end of eleven months the patient was still almost helpless. The exceptional facts in this case were the contraction of the pupil, the loss of consciousness, the long duration of the symptoms, the signs of gastro-enteric irritation, and the consequent paralysis. R eese.—On the Defection of Strychnia as a Poison, and on the influence of Morphia in disguising the usual Colour-test. Chem. News, June 7th. [From the American Journal of Pharmacy.] A man was recently indicted in Pennsylvania for the murder of his wife by the administration of strychnine. The body was exhumed for chemical examination six weeks after death, and the organs were placed in the hands of the author, who entirely failed to detect any evidence of the presence of the alkaloid. The deceased had taken shortly before her death a quarter of a grain of morphine, and the question arose whether or not its presence in the liquids of the stomach had so disguised the reactions of strychnine as to render them indistinguishable. To determine this question a series of experiments were made, from which it clearly appeared that strychnine was not discoverable "in an organic liquid when morphia is in excess, and barely discoverable when in equal quantity.7' Another series of experiments consisted in the administration of strych- nine and morphine in varying proportions to animals. In these cases the j reactions of strychnine were invariably suppressed, although in animals poisoned by the same doses without morphine the strychnine could be readily detected. The accused was convicted, and eventually confessed his crime. TnoMAS.—On the Colour Tests of Strychnia, as modified by the presence I of Morphia. Chem. News, June 21st. With the view of determining the important question whether the j property of morphine, of marking the presence of strychnine, as regards I the action of the colour tests, in solutions in which it happens to be pre- I sent, is dependent on decomposition of the latter, Professor Thomas has I made numerous experiments. He concludes from them " that strychnia I