RESl'I ItATOEY SYST KM. 133 fact comes out, however, when the results of active treatment, especially by removal of blood, are examined. The period of convalescence is unques- tionably very notably protracted, and that in proportion to the activity of the depletory measures adopted. Barthez allows, however, that it may be occasionally advisable, for the temporary solace of the patient's sufferings, to put in force remedies which are not calculated to produce any beneficial influence on the general course of the malady. Of the 212 cases only two died, and these were both severe cases of double pneumonia of a typhoid type. Half of the patients had no treatment whatever, and the two cases of death are distributed among both groups. Eisenjiann.—On the ^Etiology of Pneumonia. Arch. f. Wisseuschaft. Heilk., vi, 2, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 309. Eisemnann lays down, that one form of disease, as pneumonia, may result from very different causes (morbid impulses), and that the same morbid cause may give rise to very different forms of disease. Kostlin.—On the Statistics and Etiology of Bronchitis, Pneumonia, and Diarrhoea. Arch. f. Wiss. Heilk., vi, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p.310. Bronchitis made up 21*2 per cent, of all internal diseases, taking the experience of the district, but in the hospitals it was scarce half as fro- cpient. Pneumonic cases were in the ratio of 1 to 31-4 of all diseases considered in the aggregate, but in hospitals they gave a ratio of 1 to 21-5. In the mortality tables of the city of Stuttgard pneumonia shows a figure of 1 to 8 • 5, in those of the district of 1 to 61. Kostlin also finds that great cold is especially dangerous to the aged, great heat to early infancy, the latter by causing diarrhoea in the summer, the former pneumonia in the winter and spring. Geissler.—Herpes in Relation to Pneumonia. Froriep's Notizen, vol. 3, No. 7, 1861. Med. T. & Gaz., Feb. 1st. Geissler observed herpes 182 times in 421 cases, 87 of these were fatal, and among them only 17 had herpes. The eruption appeared in two-thirds of the cases on the second, third, and fourth days, and in one-third of the whole number on the third day alone. The appearance of the eruption on the second or fourth day was a more favourable sign than on the third. Hogan.—Success of the Tonic and Stimulating Plan of Treatment in Pneumonia and other Diseases. Amer. Med. T., May 31st. Numerous cases of pneumonia were admitted into the military hospital, caused for the most part by exposure to cold and wet. Not one was bled, and not one died. The treatment consisted mainly of very mild counter- lrntation. There were about 130 typhoid cases, of whom only two died. Pneumonia, bronchitis, and diarrhoea were frequent complications. A nutritious diet was given, and eight to sixteen ounces of whiskey daily, made into a milk-punch. There were forty cases of pericarditis, all but one, from rheumatism, none fatal. Alkaline treatment was employed, with opium occasionally, and stimulants always, and counter-irritation locally.