OTHER VEGETABLE PRODUCTS. 437 Cfhelidoniwm majus. The preparation used by the eclectics under the name sanguinarin is not the alkaloid, but a dried alcoholic extract, in which it exists along with the resinoid constituents of the root. As a tonic, the alkaloid is given in doses of from gr. ^ to gr. TV Of the tincture, twenty minims to a drachm may be given as a stimulant tonic, 5ij to 5SS as an emetic. The Lakcet.—Descriptions of New Remedies. Lancet, Jan. 4th, nth, 18th; Feb. 8th, 22nd; March 15th; April 19th; July 5th; Aug. 30th, and Dec. 6th. Anarcotine.—The reporter refers to a paper by Dr. Garden, of Ghazee- pore, on this substance (already well known as narcotine, one of the immediate principles derived from opium), founded on the favorable results of its employment in nearly 700 cases of intermittent fever. Dr. Garden's conclusions are as follows :—Anarcotine failed in only 3*6 per cent, of the cases of ague, whether quotidian or tertian, of long or short duration, in which it was given alone. " It arrests the fever, on the whole average, before the recurrence of a third paroxysm after the com- mencement of the treatment." In small doses of half a grain or a grain, it acts as a tonic. As an antiperiodic, from three to six grains may be given. Cimicifuga racemosa.—No new facts are recorded. It is recom- mended that the concentrated tincture of the rhizome should be given in acute rheumatism, in doses of 5ss to 5j or 5ij, in repeated doses, until nausea, vertigo, and lowering of the pulse are produced. The substance called cimicifugin, which is prepared by drying and pulverizing the precipitate thrown down by the tincture during spontaneous evapo- ration, is said to possess all the activity of the tincture itself. It may be conveniently prescribed in pill, two grains being equivalent to a drachm of the tincture. Prmius Virginiana.—Wild cherry bark is a " powerful tonic, a calmative of nervous irritability, and an arterial sedative," and is given with great effect in doses of 5j of the tincture in certain cases of gastralgia, and as a restorative after debilitating acute diseases. Podophyllin.—The following communications are embodied in the section on podophyllin:—Dr. Gardner states, as the result of his observations in private practice, that he has found that podophyllin does not usually act on the bowels for ten, twelve, or sixteen hours, and that this effect is not due to its direct action, but to the previous discharge of a large quantity of bile into the intestines. He finds it most useful in constipation dependent on hepatic disorder. Dr. Ramskill states, with equal distinctness, that this drug, even in small doses, less than half a grain, produces large evacuations of golden-yellow bile, which are some- times discharged with very little or even no purging. In this last respect, the action of podophyllin is favorably contrasted with that of calomel, the cholagogue effect of which is derived from its general action on the intestines. These opinions are supported by cases. Physalis alkalcengi.—The winter cherry is a native of the south of Europe, and commonly cultivated in this country in gardens. All parts of the plant possess a strong bitter taste, which'is probably due to a crystalline prin- ciple, named physaline. It is diuretic and aperient, and is used as a substitute for colchicum in the treatment of gout. Mcnispcrmum