REPORT OX SURGERY. 30-1 any evidence of malignancy. There were no deposits of fibrin, and there was nothing in the patient's history to show that it was even the result of inflammation. The man is progressing without an untoward symptom, and will shortly leave the hospital. From a further account of this case- in Mr. Lawrence's 'Lectures on Surgery,' p. 611 (Lond., 1863), it appears that there afterwards formed in the neek a large tumour, which appeared to be glandular, and was considered malignant. CHEST. Dr. Banks on paracentesis and the employment of the drainage-tube in empyema ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' xxxiii, 356), states, that if he should have occasion again to perform this operation, he would proceed in the following manner :—A direct opening being made into the pleura in front, with a bistoury,, the catheter would be introduced ; the cavity could then be rapidly explored, and the position of the upper surface of the diaphragm determined. Guided along the surface of the diaphragm, the catheter would thus be directed towards the outer and lower part of the chest, and the point made to press against an intercostal interval, as near the diaphragm as possible, so as to be felt from without. A " Brodie's catheter1' being furnished with a broad flat handle, would admit of this very essential part of the proceeding being done with great facility. The counter-opening would then be made by cutting on the point of the catheter sufficiently to allow it to be pushed through the wound. The drainage-tube being attached by a silk thread to the eyes of the catheter, on withdrawing the latter, one end of the tube would be carried after it into the pleura, and out at the opening which was first made. Cases of empyema treated by the drainage-tube under Dr. Fincham, Dr. Farre ('Lancet,' 1862, i, 571, ii, 229; 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 349) : Dr. Thorp on thoracentesis (' Dub. Quart. Journ.,' xxxiv, 1) : M. Bouchut on dry tapping, which, he considers, may occasionally result from the whole of the exudation coagulating, and forming a gelatinous mass ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, 453). ABDOMEN. Professor Oppolzer, who has paid special attention for many years to abdominal tumours, has published some papers on their diagnosis, from which we extract the following remarks on those of the abdominal wall (' Wien. Med. Wochens.,' 1862, i, 17, 49, &c). Swellings of the belly, which are caused by intraperitoneal tumours, become smaller at each inspiration, because the abdominal wall is thrown forwards, and thus carried away from them ; those that move with the diaphragm, also pass at the same time somewhat downwards; whilst swellings, which are caused by tumours in the parietes, move directly from behind forwards. Tumours of the wall vary in mobility, according to the relaxation or tension of the abdominal muscles; those, which are subcutaneous, continue moveable, when the muscles are contracted, whilst those, which are attached to the fascia, or which are seated in or behind the muscles, become more or less fixed. The first questions to be decided in the diagnosis are : whether the tumour is in the wall, or within the peritoneal cavity; and in the former