REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDIC1NK. ID present. (3 ) Its extraordinary effect (within a brief period) in altering the character of the cutaneous eruption. It seems to arrest the morbid pro- cess, and induce healthy instead of diseased action. The pustules appear simply to be deprived of their vitality; they desiccate and fall away. (4) The prevention of pitting, consequent, it may be supposed, on the whole nature of the pustule being changed in the manner jusi noted. Moynikh.—On Vaccinal Saturation. J. de Med. et de Chir. prathp, wxiii, p. 100. A female child, a;t. 5 months, is vaccinated Aug. 19th, re-vaccinated with her own lymph on the zznd, 23rd, and 24th; these inoculations succeeded, but none made on the following days, although lymph taken on the 25th produced a characteristic vesicle in other children. In some children saturation does not ensue till the eighth or .ninth day. From these observations, it is intelligible bow, if vaccination is performed during an epidemic of variola, the result will vary according as the vaccine matter has had time to modify the system or not. If the system be under variolous infection already, the vaccine vesicle will not develop; if the converse is the case, the variolous will not; if the system receives both infections simultaneously, the eruptions mil develop together. Hillier, T.—Clinical Lecture on Scarlatina and its Sequela;. Med. T. and Gaz., May 31st, June 7th, 14th, 21st, 28th. In proportion to population, scarlatina is but little more fatal in towns than in the country. Family peculiarities of constitution seem to favour the occurrence of the disease, and to dispose to a fatal issue. The mortality is highest (35 per cent.) in the last three months of the year; next, in the three preceding (24 per cent.); and lowest (18 per cent.) in the first three months. The third year of life gives the greatest number of deaths—17 per cent. The consecutive dropsy is most fatal in the fourth year, and sixty-nine per cent, of all the deaths occur under the age of five years. Males are more subject than females to the dropsy in the ratio of 60-3 to 39/7. The poison is not very, if at all, volatile; it is destroyed by a heat a little below 2120 F.; it retains its morbid potency with great tenacity for a long, uncertain time. Dr. Eichardson has recorded a case where it seems to have attached itself to thatch four months. The period of incubation varies much from one to fifteen or more days. Einger's observations show that, even during the height of the fever there is not, as would be expected from the elevation of temperature, any increase in the quantity of urea secreted—that there is sometimes a decided decrease; that there is always a very decided decrease in the second and third weeks of the disease; and that the urinary organs only recover themselves so as to secrete a normal amount of urea at the end of the third or fourth week. Dr. Fenwiek states thai a desquamation of the gastric tubes takes place, and that the intes- tines are similarly affected, but to a less degree. Enlargement of the solitary glands and Peyer's patches are met with in fatal cases, and some- times ulcerations. Einger finds that the temperature usually falls very decidedly on the fifth day; if not then, it occurs on the tenth, fifteenth, or twentieth day. Subsequent rise of the temperature depends on the Betting