REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 358 ilia of the mother, and therefore antero-posteriorly upon the head because, the base of the skull still being above the brim, the head has not yet made its turn with the face into the hollow of the sacrum. It is not necessary, though very desirable, to know to which side of the pelvis the face is directed before the adaptation of the instrument because when the brim is passed the head will of itself turn with the face backwards; we have, therefore, only to follow the inclination of the head, without attempting to guide it. After the head is in the cavity we may follow one of three modes of practice—to remove the instrument and head, to apply the short forceps, or to continue to extract with the long forceps; and a specific rule is applicable to every variety of case. If the external parts be rigid and uterus acting strongly, natural expulsion is the best. If there be plenty of room, delivery may be at once effected. The author states that in all cases he uses the catheter before ap- plying the forceps, and that he does not use an enema unless a quantity of hardened faeces be found lodging in the rectum. The next series includes eight cases. In two out of these eight the head was extracted with the face anteriorly ; this is rare. Generally there is some peculiar formation, either of the pelvis or of the child's head, to account for it. "When the blades of the forceps are adapted over the ears with the face looking to either acetabulum, the author's practice is to extract with the face forward ; but if a difficulty is found in doing this, to turn the face into the hollow of the sacrum, and he prefers, if possible, extracting it with the face under the arch of the pubes, because, as the rotation is made over only one quarter of the half pelvis, there is less chance of injuring the soft structures in the manipulation than if it were made over three quarters ; besides which, if the child's body be tightly con- tracted above, and not follow the turn made below, the child's neck would be twisted, and fatal injury perhaps inflicted. At page 344 a further series of ten cases are related. In one of these the necessity for the forceps arose from inward projection of the spinous processes of the ischia delaying the exit of the head, and there had been a similar difficulty in two previous labours in the same patient. The next series (p. 397) include nine forceps cases, and the next (p. 474) eight more. Repeatedly the author has occasion to observe that the child must have been sacrificed unless the long forceps had been employed. In one case the os uteri was not fully dilated when the instrument was first intro- duced ; this adds much to the chance of injury to the organ. If more than one third of the os uteri is to be felt continuously, it will most likely be found in a condition to prevent the use of the long forceps. In the case in question it was so soft and so distensible, that it would evidently dilate readily, as the head passed through the bones without suffering injury. Respecting a case in the next series of eight cases (p. 555) the author remarks that, as in some other cases, the spinous processes of the ischia were directed too far inwards, and this delayed the expulsion of the head and necessitated the use of the forceps. The projection in question interferes with the rotation of the head, and the head hitches against it, as against the corner of a shelf. He has almost invariably remarked that in the use of the long forceps, when the base