88 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Noyes, H. D.—Amor. Med. T., March 15. Records a case of amaurosis from injury to the supra-orbital nerve. The skin of the forehead and scalp to which the nerve is distributed remained partially insensible for three years. The blindness was perma- nent. No lesion of the interior of the eye could be detected by the ophthalmoscope. Hitchcock, A., M.D.—Some Remarks on Neuroma, with a Brief Account of Three Cases of Anomalous Cutaneous Tumours in One Family. Amer. Q. J. of the Med. Sc., April 1862. In two of, the cases the tumours were numerous, in one too numerous to be counted, in the third there was one principal tumour, which returned after removal, reappeared after amputation, and proved fatal. It presented at first a doubtfully encephaloid character, but subsequently this was more decidedly marked. A writer in the Australian Medical Record relates two cases of obscure neuralgic pains produced by lead in the system, and announces the follow- ing simple method of detecting the presence of this metal. After administering to the patient pot. iod. for a short time, he is desired to place a piece of sulphuret of potassium, tied up in a rag, in the urine every time he passes it, for five minutes, during two days. The iodide of lead in the urine is decomposed, and sulphuret of lead formed, which remains in the rag. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., March 1st. Lee, C. 0.—On the Antagonistic Effects of Opium and the Mydriatics, illustrated by Cases of Poisoning in the Human Subject. Amer. J. of Med. Sc., Jan. 1862. Lee gives three well-marked cases of poisoning by stramonium, in which the symptoms were evidently overcome by fidl doses of opium, all the patients recovering. He adds two other cases, one of poisoning by bella- donna, the other by opium. For the first opium was used, for the second belladonna. The residts were that the poisonous symptoms were promptly subdued, and that doses of the antidote were safely given which would have been surely fatal in health. Bartels.—On the Therapeutic Application of Acet. Zinci. Pr. Ver. Ztg. N. F., iv, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 19. Bartels recommends this salt in all cases of cerebral irritation devoid of actual inflammation. It may often replace morphia. Burgess.—On Amaurosis ivith Taenia. Amer. Med. T., April 19th. Brit. Med. J., June 14th. A male, ajt. 39, six months before began to suffer severe pain through the right eye and over the right side of the face and head. The right side of the face became paralysed, and the vision of the right eye became cloudy and at last was lost. The left eye became similarly affected. When seen the eyes were prominent, the pupils dilated, and but little sensible to light, the interior of the eye of a glaucomatous tint, the right side of the face was still paralysed, and the tongue partially. After the expulsion of a tapeworm the paralysis and the blindness gradually disappeared.