REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 74 valerian root, or of orange loaves is to bo taken when the galium is omitted. Some patients are treated also by other remedies for chlorosis or scrofula. In some cases cauteries and setons are employed. It is stated that it is only one part of the locality (the Hermitage mountain) which produces the herb endowed with the true anti-epileptic properties. Ogle cites many autho- rities, ancient and modern, in favour of the anti-epileptic properties of the galium. He has also had an extract of a liquor prepared from the fresh herb as grown in Lincolnshire and near Paris, and has tried their efficacy on several patients, both epileptics and others of similar nature. The result so far, has been on the whole more favourable for the remedy than for any other that he has tried in the same period of time, whether the number of the seizures on the one hand, or their strength or complication on the other, be considered. He recommends the remedy as worthy of further trials. De Courdoux, M.—Glasgow Med. J., April, 1862. Finds a solution of 3iv of camphor in of chloroform effective as a local anaesthetic. The part ■ is to be surrounded with lint dipped in this liquid and covered with water-proof cloth for twenty minutes. Fournier recommends the vapour of a mixture of pure acetic acid and chloroform. MlOHfiA.—Physiological effects of Atropine, and its employment in Epilepsy. Gaz. des Hopit. Ann. de Therap., 1862, p. 8. Michea states that atropine and its salts act chiefly on the cerebro-spinal nervous system, depressing and arresting the functions of its several parts in a successive non-simultaneous manner. Thej affect the motor-nervous apparatus before the sensory, and lastly the cerebral hemispheres. The muscles which are first affected by epileptic convulsions are nearly the same as those which are first and specially affected, but in an opposite (paralysing) manner, by atropine. Valerianic acid seems to intensify the action of atropine. Botkin, S.—On the Physiological Action of Sulphate of Atropia. Virchow's Archiv. xxiv. p. 83, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115. p. 168. Botkin finds by experiments upon frogs that the drug destroys the excitability of the nerves, but leaves that of the muscles unaffected. The peripheral extremities of the nerves are first affected, those of the motor- nerves before those of the sensory. The poison acts through the medium of the blood, as a limb whose vessels are tied remains unaffected. The action of the poison on mammalia is essentially the same as in frogs. When com- plete, the nerves uo Longer react ou any irritation. When the poisoning is incomplete, and the animal still breathes, the nerves still react with the strongest interrupted currents without, however, producing tetanus of the corresponding muscles. On immediate irritation the muscles, however, react very readily, even with a very slight stimulus. Recovery in dogs and rabbits ensued speedily. The heart's movements in frogs became slower, the cavities distended with blood, the arteries partially emptied, and the veins over filled. In mammalia the heart's action is rendered weaker