REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA J1EDICA. 433 Silver. Nickles.—On the Medico-legal Detection of Silver. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xli, p. 277. With reference to an accusation of the crime of rape committed on a child, certain stains on the linen of the accused were submitted to the author for examination, of which some were ascertained to be spermatic, -while others contained blood and pus. Besides these there were black spots, the chemical reactions of which afforded proof of the presence of silver. In order to render the proof obvious to the jury, the author steeped these stains in a solution of cyanide of potassium, in which he plunged the two poles of an extremely feeble galvanic arrangement, in which the positive metal was zinc immersed in water; the negative, copper in sulphate of copper. The negative pole consisted of thin copper wire, the positive of a pencil of plumbago, care being taken that the current should be so weak that no hydrogen should be disengaged at the negative pole, that the wire attached to the graphite should not touch the solution, and that the bulk of the solution should be as small as possible. In a few moments the end of the wire became coated with silver. Jellinck.—Poisoning by Petroleum. "Wien. Med. Halle, vol. ii, No. 44. Schmidt, vol. 113, p. 295. A peasant woman who had suffered from repeated attacks of inter- mittent fever, and had taken a variety of remedies without medical advice, was induced to swallow a table-spoonful of unrectified petroleum. Shortly afterwards she was affected with severe epigastric pain, bloody and biliary vomiting, and profuse diarrhoea. She was first seen by Dr. Jellinck on the following day, when she was in a state of profound collapse, with sunken features, cold perspirations, dry and coated tongue, and distressing thirst, her whole aspect recalling that of a patient suffering from cholera. The swallowing of fluids was followed imme- diately by vomiting or retching. There was extreme abdominal tender- ness and great restlessness, the patient rolling from side to side, with occasional cries of pain ; the watery stools contained shreds of mucus and blood ; the urine was scanty, and passed with much pain. In spite of these unfavorable symptoms, the patient recovered under a treatment which consisted in the application of leeches and fomentations, and the administration of albuminous and oily liquids by the mouth and rectum. ORGANIC ACIDS. Oxalic Acid. CowkK.—Rejiort of the Trial of Mart/ Struthfor Poisoning with Oxalic Acid. Edin. Med. Journ., vol. lxxxv, p. 9.3. On the 2ud of June, 1862, Mary Struth was charged in the High Court of Justiciary, Edinburgh, for administering to her father, on various occasions from the 5th of December to the nth of January, salts of sorrel or some other poison. The main facts of the case were as follows :—A frail old man of 75, who resided with his daughter iu Kin-