122 UK POUT ON l'UACTICAI. M Kl )ICI M.. diagnostic of compression of the trachea or the bronchi. From nasal and palatine murmurs it is distinguished by closing the nares which arrests them; from laryngeal murmurs by the integrity of the voice; from tracheal sounds by the moist bubbling character of the latter. Prom pulmonary sounds, such as occur in asthma, senile catarrh, and emphysema, the diagnosis is more difficult, but the latter are expiratory, more sharp and prolonged, loudest over the lungs themselves, while the compression murmurs are inspiratory, dry and short, and loudest in front in the median line, and posteriorly between the scapulas. Sansom, E.—On Chloroform Administration. Loud. Med. Rev., June, July, 1862. Sansom has contrived a form of inhaler less cumbrous, less expensive, and allowing of more free dilution of the vapour than Snow's. He lays stress on the importance of very gradually increasing the proportion of chloroform vapour in the respired air. In operations about the mouth he employs Faure's method of inhaling the vapour by one nostril through a tube inserted into it. Flint, A., M.D.—On the Distinctive Characters of the Pulmonary Signs obtained by Percussion and Auscultation. Amer. Q. J. of the Med. Sc., April 1862. Flint remarks that three elements—intensity, pitch, and quality—are distinguishable in the sounds which he proposes to study. After noticing the normal vesicular resonance and the normal vesicular murmur, he proceeds to the signs obtained by percussion, which he enumerates as flatness where there is no resonance, duln&ss where the resonance is diminished, tympanitic resonance, and vesiculotympanitic resonance. The three last are always of higher pitch than the normal resonance. Hie last is met with in pulmonary emphysema, and where lung is floating on effused fluid, or where part of a lung is solidified, and part remains in consequence unduly resonant. Attention to the pitch of sound will enable us to determine in cases of disparity of resonance of the pulmonary apices, whether the difference depends on lessening of the normal resonance in one, or its exaggeration in the other. Broncho-vesicular respiration is a land intermediate between bronchial and vesicular, and approaches more or less to one or other. It has previously been known as rough or harsh. Cavernous respiration Flint distinguishes positively from bronchial; he defines it as an inspiratory sound, non-vesicular, blowing, low-pitched, with a still lower pitched expiratory. It is not very often met with, when present it is a sure indication of a cavity. But a cavity may often exist without any such sound. If it be very small, non-collapsing in expiration, remote from the surface, and if the tubes opening into it be obstructed, there will be no cavernous respiration. He next describes the bronchial J whisper, whispering bronchophony, and the exaggerated bronchial whisper, which latter is of no small value in cases of a small tuberculous deposit. The distinctive character of the caveraous whisper is its being low-pitched, I while the amphoric is characterised by a musical intonation. Crepitant rale is to be distinguished from subcrepitant by being a dry crackling 1