OBSTETHICAL OPEn atroxs. More or less difficulty waa experienced in every instance in bringing down the head into the pelvis, and twice craniotomy had to be resorted to. On one occasion the parietal bone (that next the sacrum) was frac- tured in pulling the head through the brim of the pelvis. With one exception, all the patients were deeply chloroformed before the operation of version was undertaken. Nine of the children, viz., four boys and five girls, survived birth, though all were alive when the operation was commenced. Of the eight children dead-born, five were boys and three were girls. The heart continued to pulsate for several minutes after birth in some of the children recorded as " dead-born," the author not considering a child as saved by an obstetric operation, nor recording it amongst the "live births," unless respiration be fully established. All the women recovered satisfactorily but one, who died of puerperal fever, of which some cases had occurred at the time in the hospital. In reviewing these cases the author expresses his opinion that the operation is not so favorable for the child as some of its advocates suppose, and that it is only when the amount of pelvic narrowing is very slight that we can reckon with any degree of certainty upon saving the foetus. He does not, therefore, recommend the operation in pre- ference to the induction of premature labour in cases where an option is left us and a decided contraction of the pelvis is known to exist. At the same time, that it is a valuable resource in cases of this class which may have reached the full period of pregnancy, he proves by the fact that of eighteen boys born to the above patients, and delivered by other modes than turning, only two were alive at birth, whereas four out of the nine delivered by turning survived their births. Looking to the interests of the mother, the author considers that the operation of turning in the particular class of cases under notice has stronger claims ; for not only did it abridge the labour process, which in itself is no small advantage, but it averted the possible contingencies of craniotomy, high forceps operation, or even of rupture of the uterus. Its great mechanical advantage the author thinks is due, not to the position of the head nor its greater compressibility when coming through the pelvis with its base foremost, but to the unlimited amount of force we can bring to the aid of the uterus by traction on the body of the child. Figg, Dr.—Accidents in Turning in Normal Labour. Ed. Med. Journ., May, 1862. One or other of the extremities sometimes becomes fractured during the operation, but no permanent or prolonged inconvenience results. Thus, in one case lately, the right femur and left humerus of the same child had been broken; a plaster was applied to each, and in two or three weeks both limbs were quite strong. A more distressing accident sometimes happens when no fracture can be detected, but when the forearm remains powerless, usually hanging down by the side, with the palm of the hand turned backwards. The arm sometimes retains this condition for several months, but he had found that without treatment the arm ultimately became quite well. Such accidents happened in endeavouring to bring down the arms before the head, and to avoid them