155 SECRETORY SYSTEM. damaged." He contrasts the results of treatment before this plan was adopted, viz., from Jan. ist, 1845, to May 1st, 1848, with his present results. During the above period among 246 cases of acute rheumatism admitted there occurred 12 instances of pericarditis alone, 27 of endo- pcricarditis, and 75 of endocarditis, so that the heart was more or less damaged in 114 cases out of the whole number, i.e., in one out of every z-1 cases. Fuller's own cases amount to 194, and in no single instance has any heart affection occurred after the patient has been under treatment for twenty-four hours. Soda is as effectual as potash, and a combination of the two seems to have advantages. Ammonia on the other hand does not act as an alkali on the system, does not render the mine alkaline, and will not cure acute rheumatism. Fuller, however, always prescribes it in conjunc- tion with the alkalies, on account of its great power of maintaining the fibiine of the blood in solution. The acetate is the preparation he administers. He further points out that albiuniuuria and systolic murmurs at the apex of the heart will both disappear under alkaline treatment, and that therefore if the symptoms of endocarditis are not urgent, we should not be over-hasty in re- sorting to active measures. With regard to inflammatory affection of the heart occurring in the fever, Fuller dissents from those who think the em- ployment of mercury injurious. He gives it, however, well guarded with opium, and supports the strength meanwhile with nutritives, wine, and bark if necessary. Mercury, lie states, is serviceable in proportion as the exudation is plastic and readily organizable, it is useless or even mis- chievous, when the exudation consists of curdy, flocculent, ill-concocted Lymph of low vitality. Delirium aud convulsive disorder, Fuller regard;- not as the result of cerebral or spinal inflammation, or even as essentially connected with cardiac inflammation, but as induced by vitiated blood acting upon a nervous system in a state of exalted sensibility. In these cases opium and stimulants are our sheetanchor, provided no local inflammation is going on, and even if there be, it should be dealt with so as to cause as little depression as possible; calomel, blisters, and turpentine fomentations arc the best remedies. s .Roberts, W., M.D.—On the Solvent Power of Strong and Weak Solu- tions of the Alkaline Carbonates on Uric Acid Calculi. Arch, of Med. No. x., 1862. Roberts found, as Gay, Lussac, and Pelouze had found before, that strong solutions containing 273 to 546 grains of the alkali to the pint had but a very weak solvent action. He placed fragments of calculi weighing from 40 to 112 grams in 1 o-ounce phials and passed over them a stream of solutions of alkali of various strengths at blood-heat. The experiments were continued day and night, and the daily flow of solvent varied from six to fifteen pints. With 30 grams of sod. carb. to Oj the stone was dis- solved clean, at a daily loss of 10-3 grains. With 120 grains per pint there was no loss, the stone was covered with a dense white coat of bi-urate With a solution of pot. carb. gr. x. ad Oj the stone was dissolved clean at a daily loss of 6-5 grains; with 30 grains, the daily loss was no grains. With 120 or 240 grains to the pint there was no loss of wci-lit, the stone was coated with bi-urate.