11 (TTAXKUUS SYSTEM. 101 temperature is determined by the sum of the excitation of all the peripheral nerves, and its propagation to the nervous centres. It depends on the receptivity of the cutaneous nerves, the mode of life, and the condition oi the individual, and on his being accustomed or not to the bath. The season of the year and the time of the day also affect its influence. Borella.—Lond. Med. Rev., April. Treats tinea capitis (favus) by the repeated application of powdered sugar of lead every three or five days. The cure occupies about three months, but is safe, being never followed by baldness. Richter, H. E.—Report of the most Recent Contributions to the Literature of Plica Polonica. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 98. It appears that the hairs in these cases are in no respect different from ordinary hairs, the follicles have also been found normal. There is not the least evidence to show that there exists an endemic dyscrasia, hereditary tendency, or infecting power. No harm whatever comes of shaving off the mass. Various cases are given, with comments, and the general conclusion is, that there is no such material disease as plica polonica, but merely a local superstition, or delusive notion of the healthfulness and utility of neglecting the hair, and allowing it to get into a tangled mass. Sometimes it appears that this notion exists from the first, sometimes that a person having some chrome and grave disease, takes up the idea that it depends on a peculiar dyscrasia, from which he may be delivered by the develop- ment of this appendage; sometimes the possessor of such an one cuts it off, and then fancies that the first illness that befals him is owing to the loss of this " national palladium." Deconde.—Ann. de Therap., 1862, p. 125. Treats favus in the same way as Borella by picking out the separate favous formations and applying neutral acetate of lead. He finds that the favous matter is gradually modified by the lead; it presents at first the perfect ramified tubes and sporules; after a month's treatment they are consider- ably altered, shrunken, and flattened; and, finally, they have all dis- appeared. Hie period requisite for carrying out the treatment is from three to four months, the applications being made every five or six days. Hukt prefers an ointment containing carbonate of copper, gr. j ad Dij ss. De Change.—Ann. dc Therap., 1862, p. 136. Recommends applying poultices to the hands or feet by means of a large bladder in which the poultice and linib arc placed and kept. The bladder can be steeped in hot water when the bread or meal gets cold. Mollard. Cream of Sulphur Soap in Scabies. Ann. de Therap., 1862, p. tSj. It does not stain linen and has no smell. One thorough application is sufficient. Consists of olive oil soap 5ij ss, pot. sulph. 'zxv, sod. sulph. 3xv, sulph. precipit. ^x, M. ' '* 1