210 REPORT OS SURGERY. leukaemia, of septicaemia, of thrombosis and embolism, and of ichorrhamiia. At length some went so far as to deny altogether secondary pyaemia, or that form caused by self-infection from purulent inflammations, considering it as a miasmatic disease caused by external influences. The author considers hectic fever to be a chronic form of pyaemia. Mr. P. Hewett gives a brief outline of the cases of recovery from pyaemia which have fallen under his notice—ten in all; out of which the purulent infection was in six confined to the outer parts, and in four it showed itself in the lungs as well as in the outer parts, in two in the shape of lobular pneumonia and in two in that of large abscesses, which burst. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 273.) Pyaemia occurs for the most in hospital practice; but it occurs also, and that more frequently than is usually supposed, in private practice, and in the country as well as in large towns. Of cases occurring in private practice he has known thirteen—with gonorrhoea, one; with suppuration about the gums, one ; with suppuration in the tonsil, one ; with suppuration in the ear, one; with suppuration about the shoulder, one; with a whitlow, one; with carbuncle, two ; after typhoid fever, two; after operations, three, in two of which the operation was very trifling. In all these cases the patients were in easy circumstances; four lived in the country, and the others in healthy and well-drained parts of town. Pyaemia is now much less frequent in the wards of St. George's Hospital than it used to be. Indeed, for the last two or three years the wards have been remarkably free from this, the bane of surgery. This improvement, there is no doubt, is mainly attributable to the convalescent wards, the large, well-aired rooms which have lately been built at the top of the hospital. These convalescent wards are of the utmost use, not only to the patients who are thus enabled, in all weathers, to get out of their own wards, but also to those who may 'still be obliged to remain in bed. The general ward is relieved of a certain number of patients during a great part of the day, and both sets of patients thus have a purer atmosphere to breathe. In the general treatment of purulent infection the main features are that the strength should be kept up in every way and the nervous irri- tability allayed. Rum and milk in the early morning, strong animal broth from time to time, and stimulants, wine or brandy, according to circumstances ; an opiate at night, and sometimes during the day ; such are the remedies which Mr. Hewett lias found to auswer best in purulent infection. He cannot say that he has found medicines, save opiates, to be of any use in this terrible disease. He has seen all and every kind of medicine fairly tried, and the patients have died; and he has seen even bad cases^—cases in which the internal organs have been seriously im- plicated—get well under the treatment just mentioned. The patient must be carefully nursed, and the stimulants and support given at stated in- tervals, and in quantities measured according to circumstances. Locally, the abscesses should, as a general rule, be opened as soon as possible; but in dealing with joints, this rule requires some caution, for in practice cases are now and then met with, in which there may be great pain and swelling, and even redness of the skin, on the side of or around the joint, with marked effusion in the joint itself, and yet all these