DISEASES OF WOMEN. 373 symptoms, these only supervening in such cases after this condition has existed for some time. The three indications for. treatment are— I. To remove the relaxed, congested, or inflammatory symptoms which are present. 2. To restore the organ to its natural position, and there to maintain it. 3. To treat the secondary symptoms. Hip baths, the water used being at first lukewarm, but afterwards colder, to be used. Respecting the restoration of the uterus to its proper shape, this is to be effected by the sound. Pessaries have frequently a good effect in removing the sufferings of which patients complain, as remarked by Velpeau and Aran. Becquerel ascribes the relief afforded to slight inflammation thereby produced; the uterus thus becomes more fixed. With the latter explanation the author is not satisfied. The hypo- gastric bandage affords relief in many cases. The author has employed electricity in some cases, with the effect, not of removing the flexion, but of relieving the sufferings of the patients. Duncan, Dr. J. Matthews.—Diphtheritic Inflammation of Procident Uterus and Vagina. Ed. Med. Journ., Oct., 1862, p. 312. The author draws the following conclusions from a case specially con- sidered in this paper:—1. That diphtheritic inflammation of the mucous surfaces of the female genital organs, when exposed in pro- cidentia, is not uncommon. Many writers describe deep ulcerations, perforations of the bladder, and gangrenes, of which this kind of inflam- mation may be the starting-point. 2. That the diphtheritic patches may maintain their position and characters for many weeks, and pro- bably for much longer. The new membrane adheres to the subjacent mucous surface with degrees of tenacity varying at different times. It is often almost impossible to separate it from the portions of uterine mucous membrane that are covered by it, whilst its attachment to the vaginal mucous membrane is less firm. 3. That diphtheritic patches in this situation are probably sometimes supposed to be ulcerations. The deception of the observer is easily accounted for by the appearance of the patches, their elevated margins, and the red-enclosing line. 4. That the detachment of such diphtheritic patches takes place in various ways. (a) A superficial gonorrheal inflammation may throw off the membrane, and the subjacent mucous tissue be left healthy or superficially abraded. (b) The appearances observed may be explained, in several cases, by the gradual desiccation of the membrane and its detachment like an exten- sive scale or scab. The subjacent and non-exposed membrane is left entire and healthy, or ulcerated in parts, (c) Eeplacement of the affected parts, and their retention within the pelvis, produces a slow detachment, which lie has not carefully observed. That the diph- theritic membrane may gradually become thinner and thinner, while at the .game time the subjacent epithelial structure is destroyed. In short, the diphtheritic patch may degenerate into an ulcer. This change may affect an extensive patch, or only parts of it.