PELVIMETRY. 337 beat thus increased. It is difficult to prove this post mortem, air being ofteu artificially introduced to resuscitate stillborn children. It is more common that during labour the pulse remains unaffected, but the most common event is that the number of pulsations become diminished. In fact, the latter must be regarded as the rule. Depaul fixes 100 as the limit of this normal retardation of the foetal pulse, and if the pulse sinks below this it betokens danger to the life of the foetus, especially if it can be made out during the intervals of the pains. With the dimi- nution in the frequency of the pulse occurs a diminution in its force, especially in respect to the second sound. The passage of meconium is, besides the employment of auscultation, the only sign of foetal life being endangered. Ergot should not be given except when the foetal pulse is quite regular. The author's observations in respect to the effect of the pains in producing diminution of the frequency of the foetal pulse, are:—In 200 labours it was noticed 162 times; in 69 cases it first occurred in the dilatation stage ; in 39 of these it resumed its normal frequency during the intervals of the pains ; in 30 the normal frequency did not return during the remainder of the labour, the fre- quency becoming less and less. In 93 cases the influence of the pains in thus diminishing the frequency was not noticed until the expulsive stage of labour; in 64 of these with normal frequency during intervals, in 29 not so. Thus, in 19 per cent, of labours frequency not affected ; in 81 per cent, frequency diminished. The explanation of this difference is to be found, the author believes with Schwartz, in the varying con- comitant circumstances which he specifics. The diminution in frequency, being a sign of danger to the life of the child, must be looked for, and action taken accordingly. In breech and footling cases auscultation must be frequently employed to ascertain the condition of the pulse, and the foetus extracted at once, if necessary. Since the author has recognised the value of the sign in question he lias practised shortening the duration of the labour by means of the forceps much more frequently than before, and the result in the Marburg Hospital has been that the number of still-births has mate- rially decreased. It is always important to ascertain the frequency of the foetal pulse at the beginning of labour, in order to have a standard of comparison. Lucke.— On the Origin and Groicth of Tumours during Pregnancy. Mon. f. Geb., April, 1862. The author finds that tumours, unconnected with the genital organs, undergo a rapid increase during pregnancy, that this growth is most vigorous from the sixth to the seventh month of pregnancy. Seven cases are related to prove this. J'ELYIMETEY. (Jjijf.MANN.—On Internal Pelvimetry, ivith a Description of two new Instruments for this purpose, Mon. f. Geb., supplement, vol. for 1862. Germann says that the practice of internal pelvimetry is objected to by most obstetric authors ; he, however, thinks it of great importance 22