HEPOltT ON SUE.GEHY. 238 reduced in the manner just mentioned, and a compress -and bandage applied, After rest for twenty days, the patient could walk by means of a stick, provided he took great care of himself. ('Gaz. d. Hop..' 1862, p. 186.) R. Barwell, " On chronic suppuration of tendinous sheaths, simulating affections of joints" ('Brit. Med. Joum.,' 1861, ii, 351).—The parts most liable to be affected with suppuration in a tendinous sheath, are of course the neighbourhood of the wrist and ankle. The process is often extremely slow; it may commence at once as a chronic disease, but it more usually begins in a more or less acute form from injury or other cause. The pain, lameness, tenderness, and swelling, are at first pretty severe and defined ; but in a little time they all diminish, and become more diffused. The patient, however, does not get thoroughly well; he may be able to use the limb a little, but some pain and quaggy swelling continue, which again slowly increase. This swelling has never, after the first acute or subacute stage of the disease, a defined, clearly marked boundary; it fluctuates more or less obscurely, and through a mass of thickened in- filtrated tissue. After a time the matter points, and may be evacuated by the knife, or may find its own way out; in either case, there is usually left a troublesome, tortuous sinus, which will not heal. There is no posi- tive sign, whereby we can distinguish a chronic suppuration in a large tendinous sheath or sheaths about the wrist and ankle from a chronic in- flammation in those joints ; but there are negative signs quite sufficiently significant to render our diagnosis, if carefully carried out, perfectly certain. The narration of a case wiilj best exemplify these points. " A young woman, set. 18, about three and a half years before, severely sprained her right foot, and was laid up for more than a fortnight. She could move about with difficulty; but in a little time the ankle again be- came more and more painful, until, about eight months after the injury, it was impossible to put any weight on the foot. The limb was much swollen. She lost her appetite, and slept but little. Blisters, splints, irritating ointments, &c, were used, but apparently with no benefit. Iu about six months, an abscess opened a little above the ankle-joint, near the front of the inner malleolus ; after a further interval, another opened lower down, over the dorsum of the foot. During the last six months, several London surgeons had seen the case, which was set down as one of old and inveterate joint-disease; amputation was recommended. . . . I found a strumous-looking but robust girl, about eighteen, whose health did not appear to be affected by suffering or exhaustion. The right foot and ankle were a good deal swollen in front, and there were three mouths of sinuses, one to the outer side of the lower end of the tibia, the other two near each other on the dorsum of the foot. The shape of the swell- ing was not very defined; it was greatest over the front of the joint, was broadly fusiform, running up the leg and down the foot towards the toes, and it fluctuated obscurely from one part to the other. Although the boundaries of the tumefaction were by no means defined, and although the whole limb was swollen, there was an evident distinction between the character of this condition in front of and behind the joint. In the former situation, it might be discovered that, below the sodden and infil- trated skin, the anatomical parts were really swollen; while, behind the