BBPOflT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 370 the vagina, to the upper end of which is attached a smaller spiral spring, lying within the. uterus, a disc of gutta porcha being placed between the two, and on which the uterus rests ; the whole is covered by india rubber. . The instrument is introduced by means of a stilette passing through the centre, and retained by india-rubber cords externally. It is so made as not to reach quite to the fundus of the uterus. 6. Hyper- trophy 'of the. uterus, divided into two classes, following Huguier's plan, i.e. sub-vaginal and supra-vaginal hypertrophy of the cervix. 7. Sterility. NEUROSES OF UTERUS. Day, Dr. "W. IT.—Severe Neuralgia of the Uterus following Premature Labour; early discharge of Liquor Amnii. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 4th, 1862. Two cases are related. In the first there was draining away of the liquor amnii at the third month of gestation, increasing a month later, and recurring slightly at intervals till within a month of delivery, delivery taking place at the seventh month of a female child, which died at"the end of six days, after several convulsive paroxysms ; it was flaccid and shrunken, and weighed only a pound and a quarter. A jiortion of the placenta and membranes were putrid. The patient suffered severely from pain in the neighbourhood of the uterus, which was believed to be neuralgic in character, for some time after the labour, and became very weak and debilitated in consequence. Iron, quinine, nourishing and stimulating diet, and sedatives, were employed with advantage, and recovery followed. In the second case the patient was attacked, at the fourth month of her pregnancy, with a colourless loss, which soon sub- sided ; occurred.again, after mental disturbance, at the sixth month, with irregular labour-pains. A broad binder was applied, and relief afforded. At the eighth month symptoms as of labour set in—regular pains, dilatation of os to size of crown-piece. After a dose of opium these subsided, and the patient went her full time, being finally delivered of a healthy living child. ■ . DYSMENORRHEA. Coghlan.—On Dysmenorrhea and Sterility. ISo. II. Med. Times and G-az., Feb. 22nd, 1862. In a previous paper the author has described a peculiar knife for the purpose of incising the os uteri in cases of dysmenorrhcea dependent on mechanical obstruction of the os and cervix uteri. He now employs the same knife, but makes it a little less full (see 1 Tear Book' for 1861). In order to prevent the cicatrization which inevitably occurs, and which to a certain extent contracts the opening afterwards, lie inserts a roll of lead by means of a peculiar instrument, a "dilator," now described and figured, u It has a beak like the extremities of a pair of forceps, bent and small at the point. Bound this portion the lead is rolled tightly, and the instrument then inserted (after previous incision) ; the blades are then separated, and the leaden tube thus expanded. After expanding the tube to the necessary extent the instrument is