295 NABES. for closure of the mouth from cicatrices, under Mr. Heath (: Lancet,' 1862, ii, 89): A.Wagner and others-, on operations for immobility of the lower jaw ('Canstatt,' 1861, v, 274): Dr. Immisch on salivary- calculi ('Deuts. Klin.,' 1861 ; or 'Med. Jahrb.,' 1862, ii, Anal. 37). NAItES. Naso-pharyngeal Polypi. We have already explained the manner, in which Langenbeclc laid bare a tumour of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and shall now pass to a somewhat similar method, by which M. Huguier ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1861, p. 337) removed a naso-pharyngeal polypus. A young man of twenty, was admitted into Beaujon with all the symptoms of such a growth on the left side; ala nasi and root of the nose distended by a reddish mass, the eye pushed forwards and upwards, the soft palate pressed downwards by a tumour which felt hard and firm to the finger. No air passed along that side of the nose. The voice had become markedly nasal; the respi- ration was difficult; he was obliged to sleep in a sitting posture. He had been fruitlessly submitted to various treatments and attempts at operation during the six years, which had elapsed since the beginning of the disease. On the nth August, i860, the following operation was performed:—1. The mouth being opened as much as possible, M. Huguier made a transverse incision through the base of the soft palate; then, by means of Belloc's sound, he passed through the nasal fossa on the left side, and through the aperture just mentioned, a thread, to the end of which was attached a little band. He intended to employ this band further on in the operation, with the view of dragging the left upper jaw, so as to turn it downwards and towards the right side. 2. An incision through the whole thickness of the cheek, was carried from the labial commissure on the left side to the anterior border of the masseter. A second incision commenced at the inner angle of the eye, passed down by the side of the nose, and ended in the middle of the upper lip. The facial artery was tied; the triangular flap was carefully separated and raised outwards. 3. The upper jaw was divided horizontally with the saw; this section commenced over the maxillary tuberosity, and ended over the floor of the nasal fossa. 4. The first incisor tooth on the right side was dislocated, and the hard palate notched with the saw on the left side of the septum. 5. The base of the pterygoid process was cut through with strong bone forceps. Thus the lower part of the upper jaw was detached from the other bones of the face, except towards the middle line, where it still adhered to them by the soft parts covering the two surfaces of the hard palate and the upper part of the alveolar process. This part of the upper jaw was then dislocated downwards, and towards the right side, within the mouth, by means of a chisel used as a. lever, and by traction with the band which had been passed along the floor of the nares in the beginning of the operation. Up to this period there had been scarcely any haemorrhage. The polypus could now be seen with ease; it was adhering extensively