REPORT ON SURGERY. 22G treatment a mean time of forty-one days. 5 primary affections, acquired after a constitutional syphilis treated by syphilisation, have demanded ior treatment a mean time of twelve days. 10 primary affections, acquired after a constitutional syphilis previously treated by derivation, have demanded for treatment a mean time of forty-eight days ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 676). D. A. .Zambaco, 1 Ou Syphilitic Nervous Affections,' Paris, J. B. Bailliere, pp. 20 and 596.—To some extent a collection of original observations, arranged and connected by a discussion of the more important points connected with them. According to the author, any and every functional disturbance of the nervous system may be caused by syphilis ; thus it may induce choi'en, hysteria, epilepsy, insanity, paralysis of sensation or of motion, neuralgia, affections of the organs of sense. In some ex- ceptional cases, these functional diseases induced by syphilis are unac- companied by any discernible organic lesion; in the great mass, it has been fully proved by dissection, that they are occasioned by distinct pathological changes, such as the effusion of plastic products in the nervous tissue, inflammation of the brain or its membranes excited by an exostosis. J. Rollet, 'Clinical and Experimental Researches on Syphilis, simple Chancre, and Gonorrhoea,' Paris, Bailliere (with an atlas of plates).— A collection of essays on the plurality of venereal diseases, syphilitic contagion, chancre of the mouth and nipple, gonorrhceal rheumatism, &c; they have for the most part been published previously, and become generally diffused. F. E. Friedrich, ' On the Doctrines held as to Chancre,' Erlaugen, F. Enke, pp. 4 and 93.—A collection of the doctrines held by different authorities, an exposition of their contradictions, and an attempt at a satisfactory solution of the difficulties. He-considers that too much im- portance has been assigned to the hardness or softness of the sore, though he himself believes in a dualism ; on the other hand, he thinks the inocu- iability of the Pore on the patient himself the most certain guide, for a sore, that can be inoculated, according to him, never induces secondary symptoms. A. Viennois, ' An Examination of the Opinions recently expouuded by M. Ricord at the Hotel-Dieu,' Paris, F. Savy, 8vo, pp. 62 (a reprint from the 'Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 138, &c). E. Langlebert, ' On the Chancre produced by the Contagion of Secondary Symptoms, &c.,' second edition, Paris, Delahaye, pp. 21 and 130. M. Robert, ' New Treatise on Venereal Diseases,' Paris, Bailliere. M. Robert has also published a pamphlet, in which he endeavours to show, that the hard chancre is sometimes inoculable on the patient him- self. The cases given by him are quoted in the ' Gaz. Hebd.' (1862, p. 274), and their inconclusiveness shown by P. Picard. The latter gem tleman states (ibid., p. 246), that he has repeated with success the experi- ment proving the existence of mixed chancres. A patient has a well-marked hard sore, and a number of the lymphatic glands arc hard and indolent; the discharge from the sore is not inoculable on the patient himself; now to this sore, some pus from an equally certain soft chancre is applied ; in