882 ftEPOET ON MKDWTTBItY, ETC. 443 cases, the idiot was twin-born in eleven cases; thus every fortieth idiot was found to be one of twins. The data respecting the frequency of twin births and the mortality of twins lead to the conclusion that in finding every fortieth idiot one of twins we have a much higher pro- portion than holds respecting the general population. The author finds further that there occurs among the relatives of such idiots a marked frequency of twin births; and still further, that even among the relatives of those idiots who are themselves single born there occurs an unusually large number of plural births. Pour times, in fact, one or other parents of the idiot was twin or triplet born; 32 of the 443 mothers had borne twins once, twice, or more frequently; 43 of the 443 families presented twins, more or less frequently, born by mother, grandmother, aunt, or sister of the idiot. These figures, from a variety of causes, represent an under-statement, and from this they derive additional weight. When compared with single births, the whole history of plural births is exceptional; they are more fatal to the mother ; they represent a larger proportion of dead-born children; the mortality of the offspring in infant life is greater; premature deliveries are more numerous; abnormal presentations and the necessity for instrumental assistance occur more frequently; the children are smaller, and are apt to be unequally developed. All these points of difference are far from indicating vigour ; on the contrary, they lead us to anticipate in twin children feebleness of constitution and imperfect development. The author then directs attention to some of these points more particularly, substantiating their truth by reference to statistics in standard works on obstetrics. In the aggregate, the facts prove that when woman ceases to be uniparous it is to the disadvantage of herself and offspring, and especially to the disadvantage of the lattey. It is the departure from a design of nature, not seemingly under control. Everything in the history of twin children indicates low vitality, feeble organization, and imperfect development; and this, apart from the risk of injury they are peculiarly exposed to during parturition, leads us to expect in them frequent occurrence of nervous disorders. Woman was clearly intended to bear only one child at a time, and the wider the departure from this intention the more marked is the consequent calamity. If we turn to triplets and quadruplets, Ave find the proof of this. Among them premature births are still more frequent, the number of dead children greater; of those born alive, only a few reach maturity. Personally, the author knows of only one triplet case where all three reached adult life. One of these three (all men born fifty years ago) is lame, one had double rupture, all three are eccentric. In one the eccentricity is spoken of as insanity ; he alone is married, and one of his children is a complete idiot. In another case two of triplets reached maturity, both women, both married ; one is barren, the other bore two children with spina bifida, and a third anencephalous. Plural births have been thought to indicate an excess of reproductive function, but it appears to indicate in many cases deficiency of reproductive energy. It must be looked on as a misdirection or error in reproduction, and it is doubtful whether in any case it is correctly spoken of as indicating high repro- ducing qualities. It is both strong and weak ; apparently strong at one