REPORT ON SUItGEItY. single proceeding in connexion with the practice of lithotomy, no matter what is the operation performed, which demands, more than any other, care, attention, and self-command, I should say it is the manner in which we traverse with instruments the wound in the neck of the hladder. " 2. Death after lithotomy may result from rapidly spreading inflam- mation produced by urinary infiltration into the cellular interspaces between the pelvic viscera, when they have been opened bv too deep incisions. "This result, although undoubtedly occurring sometimes, does so much less frequently, I believe, than is usually supposed. It is true that at a post-mortem examination, after a large stone has been with difficulty extracted, the cellular connexions of the neck and base of the bladder are found to be broken up ; sloughs of the connective tissue appear bathed in fluid, sero-purulent, and urinous; and marks of peritonitis, especially severe in the pelvis, are observed. But there is good reason to believe, that in most cases urinary extravasation is not the primary cause of the inflammation, but that inflammation has been the occasion of the urinary extravasation. Cellulitis, produced by violence, has first destroyed the connexions in the manner described, and theu the urine has rapidly infil- trated the disintegrated tissue, and has lighted up a virulent peritonitis, or intensified a previously existing one. Such appears to be the true explanation of the phenomena, which mark the progress of events during the period, more or less brief, which follows the operation in many fatal cases. " I am aware, that this doctrine is opposed to the generally received notions on this subject. I speak with great respect for existing views ; but careful pathological study of the subject by the bedside of the dying patient, and at the subsequent autopsy, has convinced me, that the true cause of death in the majority of cases, the cause that it most behoves the operator to guard against, is violence in opening up the internal part of the wound, and laceration of the tissues there, and not the primary passage of urine into the intercellular connexions about the neck of the bladder. Happy is it, if it be so, since the first it is in his power to avoid ; the second is a danger which would be often inherent in the ope- ration, aud unavoidable with a stone much above the average size. That it is not an inherent necessity in the operation seemed to me to be indi- cated in an early study of this difficult and important subject by the fact, that forty or fifty consecutive cases of lithotomy might be cut, and have been cut, without a single casualty. If it were a fact that cellular interspaces could not be cut without the gravest risk to life, how could such a result be possibly accounted for? It was necessary to suspect the existence of another cause; and here the comparison of living pheno- mena with anatomical appearances led me to conclude, that the cause is avoidable, and not inherent. That, to sum up the subject, in the great majority of cases, the cause of death is due to unnecessary violence in- flicted on the neck of the bladder and parts adherent, causing destructive inflammation of the connective tissue and of the network of minute blood-vessels which pervades it, and that then, and not until then, does infiltration of urine occur, when it rapidly and frightfully augments the