FOOD. 499 nities, and embraced the history of all marriages, whether of consanguinity or others. By the comparison of the results observable in the two classes of alliances, he was enabled to arrive at more certain conclusions than by the exclusive study of selected and exceptional cases. From extended inquiries as to the parentage and family history of idiots, he infers that idiocy is more frequently referable to marriages of consanguinity than any other form of mental disease; and that, with reference to Scotland, it may be safely estimated that this cause produces about 9 or 10 per cent, of the existing cases. As regards deaf-mutism, his observations lead to the same conclusion as those of Boudin ; but the numerical facts are not stated. The general question, whether or not consanguinity is injurious to the offspring, is answered in the affirmative. FOOD. Chevalier.—On Coffee and its Falsifications. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvii, Chevalier is of opinion that the falsification of coffee has now become so general that it has corrupted the public taste. Formerly people used to drink a pale coloured infusion, now the strongest coffee is understood to be a thick black liquid. Coffee beans and ground coffee are alike subject to adulteration. Fac- titious beans, made of farinaceous paste artistically fashioned in moulds, are stated to be frequently sold in France, mixed with real beans, from which they may be readily distinguished by their friability and their conduct when treated with water. But a more frequent method of sophisticating the unground coffee consists in the employment of the process of " cnrobage," which has of late years become almost universal. It consists in adding to the coffee, during the process of roasting, a quan- tity of sugar in powder, or of molasses. From the author's investigations it appears almost all the coffee in use has been submitted to this process, the effect of which is to increase the quantity of extract yielded by the coffee to render the infusion much darker in colour, and to communicate to it a flavour which the corrupt taste of the modern consumer approves. The proportion in which saccharine matter is added, varies from 5 to 10 per cent. In a recent report of the Conseil de Salubrite" it is recom- mended that the sale of coffee, containing more than 10 per cent, of caramel, should be prohibited, and that the addition of smaller propor- tions should be indicated on the label. Eulenberg, Beaugrand.—Dangers of Nipples of Vulcanised India- rubber containing Zinc or Lead. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvii, p. 44^, •Pappenheim 1862, p.d. 33-35. For a variety of commercial reasons, principally for the purpose of increasing the weight, manufacturers have incorporated clay, chalk, lime, plaster of Paris, sulphate of baryta, oxide of zinc, and carbonate of lead, with india-rubber in the process of vulcanization. Nipples of this de- scription may be distinguished, according to Eulenberg, by their having no join or seam, and by the dull, opaque, grey surface of their section, which is often dotted with white. They are moreover, thicker, less