490 llEl'ORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. Gallard.— On the Influence exercised by Railways on Public Ilcullh. L'Union, June <;th, pp. 420, 451, and 474. The author, who holds a medical appointment under the Orleans Railway Company, has availed himself of the opportunities thereby afforded him of comparing the health of those employed on the railway with other classes of workmen. He has investigated the comparative frequency and duration of sickness and the annual per-centage of deaths. As regards sickness, he finds that while among other operatives, each man loses annually sixteen to twenty days by illness, those employed on the railway never lose so much as eight days ; the number varying in different years from six to eight. As regards mortality, the contrast between the railway employes and others is even more favorable to the former; for among persons of ages varying from twenty to fifty-five, the mortality ranges between 16 and 21 per thousand, while among the railway operatives, all of whose ages are within the above-mentioned limits, it ranges from 4*5 to 6-i per thousand. From these facts, and from the absence of any special liability to the causes of disease dependent on the character of the employment, the author concludes that the occupation is rather salutary than injurious. As regards the injury of the health alleged to arise from railway travelling the author expresses great doubts. Pappenheim.—On the best means of destroying Noxious Vapours arising from Fat Melting. Beit, fur San. Poliz., part 3, p. 65, 1862. The vapours arising from the melting of fat have been fouud to contain 7-6 per cent, of hydro-carbons in addition to the ordinary gases of the atmosphere. ' Several successful methods have been adopted in manufactories on a large scale for getting rid of these products, all of which consist essentially in passing the vapours through a furnace of proper construction. The author finding that methods of this description were not applicable to small establishments, has devised a more simple proceeding. The emana- tions in question invariably contain, so long as the temperature remains below 2120, a fatty acid on which the offensive smell of fat boiling ex- clusively depends. The plan proposed consists essentially in combining this acid with an alkali. For this purpose a simple but ingenious appa- ratus is used, in which the vapours are passed through a layer of tow or flannel thoroughly soaked with potash ley. By this means the smell which is disengaged in the process, becomes almost inappreciable even when the quantities are large. MARRIAGES OF CONSANGUINITY. Boudin.—On the dangers of Marriages of Consanguinity, and on the necessity of Crossing in the Human Race and among Animals. Ann. d. Hyg., vol. xviii, pp. 6—82. "While some authorities maintain that marriages of consanguinity are productive of the most lamentable results, by others they are regarded as harmless, or even advantageous. M. Boudin resolves to appeal from opinions to facts, from assertions to proofs. lie regards the question as one to which an answer can only be obtained from statistics, that is by