11EPOIIT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 390 evacuated. This patient had been improving ever since. With refer- ence to the mode of securing the pedicle, the author remarks that in most cases since the introduction of the clamp by Mr. Hutchinson he has used it. 'When the pedicle was long this was always done, but when the pedicle was short the traction on the uterus caused distressing vomiting, and in such cases the stump was left in the abdomen, the ends of the ligature being brought outside. The cases treated in these two ways presented different phenomena, for in the first all went well from the first, while in the second class of cases there was much con- stitutional disturbance, pointing to poisoning of the blood by the ab- sorption of some portion of the strangulated pedicle. In the cases where the pedicle was very short the clamp was used temporarily until the ligatures could be applied beyond it, and then, if possible, the part which was tied was brought to a level with the skin, and then fixed by a harelip pin. The author had tried the wire-rope ecraseur, with the idea of leaving the rope on for a few hours before completely dividing the short pedicle and returning it into the abdomen, but this was not found to answer. The chain ecraseur the author has used only once. In this case there was literally no pedicle; the chain was tightened, the tumour removed, but it was impossible to drag the uterus up to the edge of the wound. On slackening the chain, however, no haemorrhage occurred, and the case did well. The author does not adopt the prac- tice of Dr. Tyler Smith, of cutting the pedicle off" close after ligaturing, and returning it into the abdomen. At present he prefers trusting to the clamp when the pedicle is long; and when it is short, either tying the vessels only (not the pedicle) or using the Ecraseur, or acupressure, or the "wire compress" of Mr. Dixon, of Hull, which is a modification of acupressure. The girl last operated on was the fortieth case of ova- riotomy, twenty-four of which had recovered and sixteen died. Wells, T. Spencek.—Two Gases of Ovariotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 5th, 1862. Case 1, set. 20.—Multilocular ovarian cyst; ovariotomy performed; ligature of omental vessels; recovery. Case 2.—Multilocular ovarian cyst; ovariotomy performed; recovery. Eebgesson, Prof.—Ovariotomy; loth Ovaries removed; death in the third toee/c. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 18th, 1862. The patient was single, her age 19. Both ovaries were found diseased. The stumps of the pedicles were left in the abdomen, and the ends of the ligatures brought out at the wound. The cause of death was diffuse peritonitis and post-peritoneal abscess. Smith, Dr. Ttlee.— Four additional Cases of Ovariotomy. Rep. of Obstetrical Soc. of London, Lancet, July 26th, 1862. These cases constitute Nos. 9 to 12 of the series operated on. In Case 9 the patient was fifty-nine years of age, unmarried, and had suffered from ovarian tumour for thirty-eight years. She was of immense size. The operation was by the long incision, the bulk of the tumour being solid. Numerous adhesions rendered the removal of the tumour very difficult; the pelvic adhesions were especially firm, and in