DISEASES OF WOMEN. 385- In the second case the patient, set. 48, was under treatment for about a year; there was ovarian dropsy. It was believed by some who ex- amined the patient that the tumour was partly fluid, partly solid, by others that it was multilocular, and it was imagined that there were no adhesions, and the operation of ovariotomy was considered advisable. After death there was found a large cyst proceeding from the right ovary, adherent almost everywhere, extending from the brim of the pelvis to above the umbilicus, and within it a smaller cyst, with very thin walls, which latter had burst with the larger enclosing cyst. About a gallon of limpid serum escaped on cutting into the large, enclosing cyst; there was no solid matter. The case is related by the author to show that great caution is needed before proceeding to extirpation, which he considers to have been impracticable in this case. Soltai", "W. F.—A Case of Ovarian Dropsy in which the Cyst three runes hurst into the cavity of the Peritoneum. Med. Times and Gaz., May 24th, 1862. The case was under observation for five years. She was tapped, and a gallon and a half of fluid drawn off in April, 1857. In September, 1857, the tumour having again appeared, she slipped in going down stairs, and fell forwards on the abdomen. She felt a little queer and faint, but had no pain. During the night and four following days there was copious diuresis. The urine was light-straw coloured and clear, and did not coagulate on application of heat. At the end of five days the abdomen was quite flaccid in every part. For four months there was no return, at the end of which time the abdomen rapidly increased in size. On April 8th, 1858, she was suddenly seized with intense pain over abdomen, having previously remarked that she felt as on the former occasions. She appeared to be dying, there being great abdo- minal distension, features sunk, and almost pulseless. The next day she was better, brandy and other restoratives having been given, and in a fortnight the swelling had subsided and she was convalescent. For six weeks the abdomen was flaccid. At the end of this time increase again occurred, and in July, 1858, she was tapped a second time. From July, 1858, to December, 1861, she was tapped thirty-seven times, the total quantity of fluid drawn off amounting to 180 gallons 2 quarts. The fluid taken away was not always alike. In June, 1859, sue nacl another fall, and two days after had severe abdominal pain, and subse- quently symptoms of subacute peritonitis for a month. The next tapping was five months later. At the end of i860 small nodules were felt in the pubic and hypogastric regions, these increased in number and size. She died ten days after the last tapping, on December 2nd, 1861. It was found that a large cyst was adherent to the abdominal parietes, and that there was a large number of other cysts present, varying in size from a hen's egg to that of the foetal head. It was im- possible to see where the cyst had burst into the abdominal cavity. The case presents a point worthy of notice in respect to the fact that for four years the disease appears to have been one of simple cystic disease, there being no remaining hardness after operation of paracen- tesis. The health of the patient remained good to the last, excepting 25