90 RF.I'ORT ON PRACTICAL MKOICINE. in larger it acts as a narcotic, causing a sense of general bien etre, and indisposition to bodily or mental exertion. Cuuzado.—El Siglo Medico, 1861, p. 231. Brit. & For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July. Records a case of apoplectiform intermittent fever, the symptoms con- sisting of red face and conjunctiva?, dilated and insensible pupils, coma, heat of skin, hard pulse. There were complete intermissions, but the attacks recurred for three days in spite of quinine and bleeding. After two baths improvement occurred. Accessions still took place, but finally ceased under the influence of hydroferrocyanate of iron and calomel given in the intervals. Wittmeyer.—On Anaesthesia. Deutsche Klinik. 1862, No. 20, 21, 24, 27. _ Wittmeyer finds that chloroform applied to the skin possesses well- marked specific anaesthetic properties. These are best shown when evapora- tion is prevented. It is, however, useless as a local anaesthetic, on account of the inflammation and burning pain which it causes. Liquor Hollandicus (elayl chloride) and aether hydrochloricus chloratus are excellent anaesthetics, but their high price prevents them being generally used. When applied more than five to seven minutes, they become irritants, and cease to act as anaesthetics. iEther produces some anaesthesia by its evaporation and consequent refrigerating effect, and also a notable amount after long appli - cation (forty-five minutes). Cutter.—On the Employment of the Veratmim viride in some of the Neurotic Diseases. Lond. Med. Rev., Aug. In ordinary epileptic convulsions in adults and children, in severe chorea, puerperal convulsions, and puerperal mania, it has proved of great efficacy, according to the experience of American practitioners. Benedikt, M.—On the Action of Iodine and Pot. Iod. on the Nervous System. Wien. Ztschr., xviii, p. 94, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 284. Benedikt finds that subcutaneous injection of pot. iod. in frogs speedily destroys sensibility and contractility. This is the result of its action on the nerves, as it affects limbs which are severed from the trunk, excepting their main nerve, and does not occur in limbs which have only had their nerve divided. The respiratory movements are paralysed before the cardiac, and these continue much longer than those of the muscles of the limbs. With larger doses the cardiac paralysis occurs earlier, before that of the limbs. When pot. iod. is used, respiration, circulation, and mus- cular contractility are extinguished together at nearly the same time. This takes place also much more rapidly when iodine or pot. iod. is applied to the central end of the spinal cord, than when it is absorbed. The reverse is the case when the agents are applied to the lower end of the cord, or to the exposed sciatic nerve. Benedikt is inclined to consider that the ordi- nary effects of iodine and its preparations on the system are produced