156 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Lewald, G.—Researches on the Excretion of Dings from the Organism, especially on the Elimination of the Mineral and Vegetable Astringents through the Kidneys, and their influence on the Functions of these Glands.—Abhandl. d. scblcs. gcs. f. vaterl. Kult, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 28. Lewald finds that lead given as acetate is separated by the kidneys in combination with albumen. If, however, the urine contain no albumen the lead is not eliminated. When seven grammes of acetate of lead were taken in six days the urine still contained lead eighty-four hours after the last dose, but none could be detected 112 hours after. Lead materially diminishes the amount of albumen in the urine; tannin does the same to a less extent. Lead also increases the amount of urine, probably by its astringent action upon the renal vessels, and causes the obstructing fibrinous casts to be washed out of the tubes. Debout, E.—Case of Nephritis Calculosa with a Single Kidney.—Lull, de Ther., May, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 176. In cases such as the one related, there is suppression of urine, severe disorder of the circulation and of the stomach, and very grave phenomena of ursemic poisoning. Copious bleeding is the means most likely to relieve the renal inflammation, and to lessen the amount of the poisonous excreta retained in the system. Percy.—On Colchicina.—Amer. Med. T., April 5th. Percy gave to a male suffering with an acute attack of gout gr. ^th thrice at four hour intervals. It produced no effect upon the bowels, but the urine was largely increased in quantity, and contained a very large amount of urate of ammonia and mucus. The dose was now increased to ^th, of which he took three. The pulse rfow fell in frequency twenty- eight beats, the urine continued to flow very freely, the bowels were moved several times, the stools being of an ochre colour, very frothy, and with a strong urinous smell. Much flatus was also passed. The paroxysm was completely arrested. The urine that was passed before the administration of colchicina was scanty, dark-coloured, of specific gravity 1021, and deposited much uric acid on cooling. That passed after the third dose of colchicina was copious, much paler, of specific gravity 1030, and contained a very large quantity of urate of ammonia and mucus. Li another case seven doses produced similar effects, viz., increased secretion of urine, a liigher specific gravity, and a copious deposit of uric acid and mucus. Percy examined on one occasion the faeces of a person under the influence of colchicum, and found them to contain a large amount of uric acid. Carter, H. V., M.D.—On the connection betiveen a Local Affection of the Lymphatic System and Chylous Urine ; with Remarks on the Patho- logy of the Disease. Trans, of Mcd.-Chir. Soc, vol. xlv. Carter records cases in which a milky chyle-like fluid was discharged from the skin of the thigh or scrotum, in one of the cases the urine being occasionally chylous. He believes that chylous urine depends on somej leak of the lactcals taking place into the urinary channels, so that the chyle is directly mingled with the urine.