CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 1G7 Sendler, Th.—Epidemic Acute (Edema of the Subcutaneous Tissue and of the Muscles. Deutsche Klinik, No. 27. Sendler has met with numerous cases of a disorder of this kind during the summer months of 1858, '59, and the following years, and in March and April of this year, which were unusually warm. The symptoms con- sist of pains in the joints, tension and swelling of the muscles, which are painful on pressure or voluntary movement, firm oedema of the face and extremities, general depression and unrest, frontal headach, giddi- ness, and catarrhal affection of the stomach and bronchi. The fever is of remittent character with evening exacerbations. The disease is rarely over in a week, and it is often tediously prolonged with relapses. It occurs almost exclusively among the working population, and seems to be induced by wetting and chills. It is generally confined to a small district, and seems to locate itself in certain houses. It is apt to be succeeded by anaemia and great debility. No really efficacious treatment has been found. Probably these were cases of Tricliina-disease, v. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 117, p. 50.—Ed. Sago, F.—Journ. de Brux., xxxiv, p. 576, 1862. Relates a case of obstinate eczema of the left hand, which, after several years of fruitless treatment, yielded to the local application of con- centrated acetic acid. Aloys Martin.—New Hair Fungus in the Human Subject.—Henle u. Pf. Ztschr. 3, R. xiv., 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 311. The hair at the back of the head in a child, ajt. one year and a-half, became after a fever, of a peculiar yellow-brown or red colour. This colour was occa- sioned by a translucent deposit around the hair shaft near its root. The deposit consisted of a gelatinoid substance containing vesicles like those of yeast. It was quite got rid of by washing with soap and water. V. Barensprung, P.—Pemphigus, Febris Vesiculosa and Bullosa. Annal. der Berliner Char, x., 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 63. The disease may not be attended with fever, is not periodic, and lasts two, three, or more weeks. It may occur at any age, mostly in middle life; very commonly, it is attended with an affection of the mouth and throat, consisting hi a vesicular eruption, or in acute cedematous swellings. The urine is not notably altered. The eruption appears at first as round, red, scattered spots, whose margins gradually become of a darker colour, and cease to disappear on pressure, while the centres develop vesicles at first clear, subsequently turbid, of alkaline reaction. The bulla? may attain a large size cither by growth or confluence. They appear symmetrically cnieriy on the upper, and next on the lower, extremities. Barensprun°- distinguishes pompholyx from pemphigus chiefly by the circumstances that the former occurs only in weakly or cachectic persons, and that the erup- tion does not appear on sound but on morbid skin. He has not met with pemphigus as a syphilitic eruption. After pointing out the diagnosis of ]-.nphig„s from various other affections, Barensprung states that he applies sweet oil to the vesicles, and gives pot. chloras with advantage.