REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 446 deligatiou of the artery. From the fact that at first the muscles of the unparalysed limb react to stimuli applied to the paralysed, he infers that the motor nerves are alfected at an earlier stage than those of sen- sation. The muscles of the unparalysed are obviously more irritable than those of the opposite limb. As' this effect might be regarded as a mere consequence of the annihilation of the excitability of the nerves, the author undertook some further experiments, with a view, if possible, to eliminate this source of uncertainty and determine whether or not this result depends exclusively on an action of the poison on the muscle itself. This experiment was a repetition of the former, with the addi- tion that the excitability of the nerve of the limb in which the artery had been tied, was first exhausted by subjecting it to the action of a constant ascending current (in the same manner as in Kiihne's experi- ments on curare). The result of this experiment led the author to conclude that, under the influence of atropine, the, irritability of the muscles is impaired as well as that of the nerves, but at a later stage of the process and in an inconsiderable degree. The action of sulphate of atropine on dogs, rabbits and other mammalia resembles that observed in frogs; the excitability of the nerves is destroyed, but that of the muscles remains unchanged. Its influence on the cardiac movements differs in the two classes of animals— in the frog the heart's contractions are invariably retarded, and its cavities distended with blood; in mammalia the pulse becomes more rapid, but loses strength, and the arterial pressure is markedly dimin- ished. In either case diminution of the force of the contractions is the most important of the results attributable to the action of the alkaloid on the heart. Daturine. Jobert (de Lambalee) .—On the Employment of Daturine as a Mydriatic. Bull, de Ther., vol. Ixii, p. 138. According to the author, daturine is preferable to atropine, as being three times as active, as giving no pain when introduced into the eye, as not producing haziness of vision, and as having a more lasting effect. FloGEL.—Poisoning by the Tincture of Seeds of Stramonium. "Wien. Med. Halle, vol. 2, No. 42. Schmidt, vol. 114, p. 23. A sergeant, a?t. 61, who had long suffered from cramps, steeped about half a pint of stramonium seeds in a pint of brandy, and took about an eighth part of the liquid at bedtime. After sleeping restlessly, he woke about two in the morning, with twitchings of the extremities, notwith- standing which he repeated his dose, and gave similar quantities to four soldiers suffering from granular conjunctivitis. All four exhibited similar symptoms,—the hands and feet were in constant tremulous movement, the countenance flushed, the expression open, the eyes flashing, the pupils excessively dilated and insensible to light, the pulse accelerated and weak, the skin hot. The sergeant, who had taken the largest quantity, answered questions incoherently and inarticulately, and two of the patients laughed immoderately. All, however, were completely conscious and able to give an account of themselves. After the free