REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 326 infancy, among whom there are constantly more males than females. Another fact supporting these views is the large proportion of idiots who arc first-born children. Difficult parturition sometimes kills the child, sometimes injures it when life is spared, and of this injury idiocy is one of the manifestations or consequences. This a priori argument and conclusion is borne out by the facts the author has collected, and which are as follows:—(i) Of cases in which the labour was long and tedious, 57 cases are noted, i in 87 of whole. In all these cases the length of the labour considerably exceeded twenty-four hours, in many labour was said to have lasted two or three days, in four cases four days, in one five days. (2) In 4 cases labour was unusually rapid. (3) Of forceps deliveries there were 22, or 1 in 22'$. The Edinburgh Maternity shows the frequency of forceps deliveries to be 1 in 472. One of the 22 was paralysed at birth, several had fits after birth, in others animation was suspended. In 9 bald patches or cicatrices about the head proved use of instruments. Allowing for the fact that the frequency of the Edinburgh ratio is based on the number of women delivered, and supposing that the mortality in forceps-delivered children is 27 per cent, greater than under ordinary circumstances, there would be among such children as reached the age of five years only 1 in 786 who had been delivered by forceps, instead of 1 in 472. (4) Of version, 4 cases, or 1 in 123, the Edinburgh ratio being 1 in 236. (5) Of pre- ternatural presentations 6 cases. (6) Of plural births, twins 11 times. [The connexion between plural births and idiocy is discussed by the author in a separate paper.] (7) It was diflicult to elicit facts of a reliable kind as to the number of premature births ; 308 idiots, however, yielded 9 premature cases. (8) In 29 cases (1 in 17) animation was suspended at birth. (9) In 33 cases the idiot1 was described as having been weak at birth, in 11 instances as having been notably small and puny at birth, in 23 cases as having been unable to suck for several days after birth, and in some the child did not attempt to suck for thirty days. In 17 instances there were such peculiarities about the child at birth as to lead at once to the suspicion of idiocy. (10) 443 idiots and imbeciles gave 138 first-born children, or 1 in 3-2 ; of the same number (443) 83 were last-born. (11) Other facts.—In one case the mother said she had gone greatly beyond the time. In one, great flooding pre- ceded labour. In one there was adhesion of the placenta, requiring for- cible removal. Another point to which the author's attention was called, was the fact that so often he was informed that the children, at first plump and apparently vigorous, had markedly fallen off immediately after birth. This appears to be a mere exaggeration of what seems to be the rule with children generally. With reference to the practice of tying the cord immediately or very soon after birth, whether the placental circulation has ceased or not, the author thinks there is room lor ques- tioning its propriety. If the cord be tied while the placental circulation is goiug ou, will the weight of the detached child be the same as it would have been if the cord had not been divided till resumed uterine action or other cause had ended the placental circulation ? He quotes Baudelocque's opinion in favour of not cutting the cord until some time, at least, after the birth of the child.