NERVOUS SYSTEM. 89 Li^geois, Hottot.—On the Action of Aconitine on the Animal Organism. J. de Physiol., Oct. 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 291. The author's conclusions are the following :—(1) Morson's crystallized product is not the active principle of aconite. (2) Aconitin is an acro- narcotic poison whose irritant action is chiefly manifested on the mucous membranes. (3) Aconitin is absorbed more rapidly from the alimentary canal than curare or strychnia, and this accounts for the comparative rapidity with which death is produced by small doses taken into the stomach. (4) Aconitin acts on the nervous centres, the medulla oblongata, the spinal cord, and the brain, in the order they are mentioned. (5) The poisoning symptoms are, first, abolition of the respiration, then of general sensibility, then of reflex excitability, and lastly of voluntary motion. (6) Aconitin disturbs the functions of the heart by a direct action on its tissue. (7) and (8) The peripheral terminations of the nerves are affected subsequently to the central organs, but they lose their excitability (both motor and sensory) before the nervous trunks. The aconitine of the authors is a permanent substance, non-volatile, almost insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol, aather, benzoin, and chloroform. Locally it acts as an irritant to mucous surfaces, but not to the skin. Its administration produces in rabbits and guinea-pigs marked salivation, and increase also of the lacrymal, pharyngeal, gastric, and intestinal secretions. The arrest of respiration the authors believe to be produced by the action of the poison on the medulla oblongata, it takes place coincidently with the loss of sensibility. The first action of the poison is to accelerate the action of the heart, it afterwards becomes slow and irregular, and then ceases. [Ac- cording to my own observations it is truly paralysed, the tissue being non-contractile and flaccid immediately after death, and the cavities di- lated.—Ed.~]^ The author's experiments go to prove that the brain, as the seat of conscious sensation, is paralysed by aconite, while the instruments of the reflex function, as tested by strychnia, remain active. Berchon, Ernest.—On the Methodical Employment of Anaesthetics, especially of Chloroform by Means of a Requlatinq Apparatus. Ann. de TheVap., 1862, p. 28. The author states that no accidents have ever occurred with chloroform administered in the way he recommends, although the number of instances in which it has been given is immense, as the method is now the regulation one of the French marine. The chloroform must be chemically pure, the tost dose of it is not to exceed ten grammes (two and a-half drachms), and it is rare that more than five grammes additional are required for the whole time of anajsthesia. The apparatus is merely a pasteboard cone with an incomplete diaphragm of swansdown, which receives the chloroform and allows the air to be inhaled freely. Fischer (Wien. Allg. Med. Zeit) recommends a glass of wine to be given fifteen to twenty minutes before the inhalation, as a means of preventing vomiting and syncope. Vbvey.—.On the Physiological action of Coca. Echo Med. Suisse. Ann. de Iherap, 1862, p. 38. In small doses coca acts as a tonic, enabling the person to resist fatigue,