REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 310 never delivered of the child. She became pregnant a fourth time in 1808, and was delivered of a sou. A fifth pregnancy equally terminated regularly. She died in the year 1858, at the age of eighty. A bony tumour was removed from the right side of the uterus, involving the .Fallopian tube of that side, weighing four pounds, and measuring eight inches long and sixteen inches round. The bony tumour was a bony cyst containing a foetus. The foetus was twisted, the head crushed so that the boues overlapped, the whole of the cranial bones apparently ossified; the upper jaw had three teeth on one side, one of which appears to be the second molar; corresponding depressions on the other side. The foetus was placed so that its whole body was twisted from left to right. The foetus had remained in the body of the patient for fifty- four years. Hicks, Dr. Braxton.—Two Cases of Extra-nterine Fcetation treated by Abdominal Section. Gruy's Hosp. Rep., vol. viii, p. 127. In Case 1 the patient was thirty-two years of age, mother of one child eight years old. She had for some weeks had severe pain in the abdomen, paroxysmal and forcing pains in the vagina, as of the head of a child coming down; difficulty in defalcation ; slight occasional discharge of blood per vaginam. Breasts had secreted milk plentifully. A large globular tumour, size of uterus at four months, occupied the vagina low down ; os and cervix high up, soft, enlarged, and apparently blended with the tumour. The condition was considered to simulate pregnant retro- verted uterus. From that time the tumour began to ascend above the pubes, and took the form and position of intra-uterine conception. Foetal movements were felt. When seen a second time, at the end of ten months, there was a central abdominal tumour present, extending two inches above the umbilicus, globular, elastic, and fluid within. Aperture of os uteri did not admit a small wire. Ballottement was indistinctly perceivable. Abdomen tender ; no foetal pulsation. Eight days after, the tumour subsided in size suddenly; vomiting and purging of very fetid fluid occurred. Twelve days later, tumour was resonant, more spread out. After waiting some time, owing to the patient's critical condition, an incision three inches long was made above the pubis, and the foetus extracted. The cyst contained much fetid fluid. There was no adhesion at the point of incision. Death took place twelve hours afterwards. The sac was adherent to the uterus and to the parts adjacent; the precise kind of gestation present was not made out. In Case 2 the patient, set. 40, had had several children; there was extra-uterine fcetation of four years' standing; a communication was formed between the cyst and the bladder, and cystitis followed. The foetal bones were removed by abdominal section, and the patient re- covered. In this second case there was complete adherence at the seat of the incision. The author discusses at length the best method of pro- ceeding in cases where the cyst is not adherent. He believes that when the patient is in good health it is best to wait and watch till symptoms arise; that when communications form between the cyst and intestine an early abdominal section is best, great care being taken to prevent fluid passing into the peritoneum ; that if the bones are passing by any