REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATHIII.A .MKDICA. 4G8 extreme faiutness, nausea, violent bilious vomiting, and diarrhoea. The attacks were of various intensity, and were treated by hot water to en- courage vomiting, followed by stimulants, anodynes, and epithems to the abdomen. Several officers on board four other ships were similarly affected about the same time. Having ascertained that the only article of food of which all had partaken was milk, the author's suspicions fell on this liquid; and on inquiry, it was found that the goats in Malta are apt to browse on a poisonous species of spurge (Euphorbia Paralias) if allowed to graze at large; and further, that this plant is occasionally given by unprincipled milkmen to their goats as a galactagogue. POISONOUS OASES. Schumacher.—On Poisoning hj Coal-gas. Henke, vol. xlii, pp. i—66. This lengthy paper comprises the details of a medico-legal iuvesti- gation relating to a number of cases of poisoning by coal-ga3 which occurred during the month of January, 1859, a* Salzburg, under the following circumstances :—During several weeks preceding the opening of the new gas-works, gas was on one or two occasions distributed to the town by way of experiment, for short periods at a time. On two of these occasions it happened that several persons were poisoned, either in consequence of the accidental leaving open of pipes, or of the imper- fection of the fittings. In all, fifteen or sixteen persons appear to have been attacked, one of whom died. Of these, eight resided under the same roof, although occupying different tenements, and suffered during the same night. Most of the remaining cases, one of which was fatal, occurred six days later, in a house adjoining". The paper coutains a detailed description of the buildings, and of the mode in which the gas found its way, by the interstices of the masonry and between the floors, from the leakage into the several bedrooms. The first case recorded is that of a butcher, a?t. 43, who was found at 9 a.m. on the 9th of January, lying on the floor, with his legs retracted, foaming at the mouth, cold, pulseless, and perfectly unconscious. His daughter lay in bed in a similar condition. After repeated bleedings and the use of other means, the pulse became perceptible, and in three hours consciousness returned, and he was removed to the hospital, com- plaining onlv of giddiness and weakness. The other six persons who suffered on the same night were members of one family, and resided in one room. From the evidence of the medical practitioner who Avas first sent for, it appears that on arriving at the house at three o'clock on the morning of the 9th, he found the patients lying in bed, more or less insensible. In all the cases, the features were pale and collapsed: the muscles Avcre flaccid and relaxed, so that the head and extremities lay as if lifeless; the breath had a peculiar acrid smell, which reminded the observer of garlic. Three of the patients Avere adidts, the rest children of the ages of eight years, eighteen months, and six months. The infant suffered least, and the rest in direct proportion to their age. Dr. A— had them all removed into an adjoining room, on which they speeddy regained consciousness (in the Avorst case after the lapse of half an hour). During their recovery all of the adults complained of headache, vertigo,