32 L iiepout on midwifery, etc. case in the first stage of the labour, in nine cases immediately after- wards, and in four eases subsequently. In the first case the forceps was used, the bleeding was due to partial separation of a normally placed placenta; mother and child were saved. The nine cases occurring after birth of child were treated successfully by friction over the uterus, emptying of its cavity of placenta and coagula, injections of cold water, and in one case by kneading of the uterus by the hand. In cases of atony of the uterus frictions after the English method are considered of great service, as preventing haemorrhage, retention of placenta, &c. The employment of a binder in all cases of labour indiscriminately is reprobated. Haemorrhage within the first week in four cases was checked by solution of alum. Laceration of the perinaeum occurx-ed in eleven cases to a greater or less extent, and in one case the perforation was central. In the latter ease the head was found external to the pelvis one hour after rupture of membranes in a primipara. The vaginal aperture closed. An incision was made on each side and delivery effected. The forceps cases were eleven, or i in 22. The author does not habitually apply the forceps until it is evident that further delay will be fruitless, although in many cases it is certain the labour may be by their use brought more speedily to a happy termination. The cases were as follows : No JT11 111 1 JJtll .1 or plunpara. Indications. VnrccnB umlipfl \»"itl • 1 ' ( | BUIJ1HJU the licud— Result for child. Remarks. J Primipara Eclampsia At outlet Living 2 Weak pains 33 11 3 u Weak pains; 33 Stillborn, cover- child's life in ed -with meconi- clanger um; recovered One of a twin 4 i) Weak pains II case; dead 5 11 Eclampsia In cavity of Living In fourth posi- pelvis tion 6 11 Weak pains; dan- In cavity Stillborn, cya- ger to child's notic, covered life with meconium; recovered 7 33 33 Outlet Stillborn j reco- vered 8 Pluripara Hmtuorrhage Cavity Living from premature separation of placenta 9 Primipara Life of child in danger Outlet 11 10 1'ains weak;dan- 33 Stillborn; re- Death two days IJ ger to child covered after, from ate- lectasis pulmo-J nam 11 II Weakness of pains n Living