ItEPOltT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 420 seven months when it died. In the fifth and seventh pregnancies, and in this which was the eleventh pregnancy, the woman had felt similar sensations ; after the seventh month, in each case, she could not go out in consequence of the " shakings in her inside." The children on these two previous occasions were horn with the same disease, and both died : one at six, the other at fourteen months. Another child died of hydro- cephalus. In the present case the ventricles of the brain contained fluid, and their lining membrane was thickened. M'Leod, Dr.—Intra-uterine Convulsions. Ed. Med. Journ., Nov., 1862. A woman, set. 33, taken in labour with her fourth child. The head presented, and delivery promised to be speedy, when a delay of an hour and a half occurred without apparent reason. A severe pain finally expelled the head; and the bent position of the right arm, it was evident, had been the cause of the protraction. The child, a male, was rigidly contracted in all its limbs ; washing was with difficulty performed, limbs could not be extended, hands clenched, thumbs turned in. It was never able to suck or swallow from the locked condition of the jaws. "When stirred, or moved in any way, the whole body became spasmodically con- tracted and bent backwards. Fits occurred every hour, or oftener, par- ticularly when touched. It whined more or less till the time of its death, which took place rather more than a week after its birth. Little or no urine was passed after first day. Bowels opened several times. Body not inspected post mortem. The mother felt certain from the sudden and violent movements of the child for about six weeks previous to birth that there was something unusual, the movements being so painful as almost to make her cry out. They continued about an hour, gradually subsiding, and recurred frequently both day and night. Every eflbrt to sustain life by giving enemata failed by bringing on a paroxysm of convulsions. Eoesteu (WiinzBr/EG).—On Human Malformations. "With an atlas, 26 plates and 254 figures, 4k), pp. 171, Jena, 1861. This work contains an explicit account of the malformations as at present understood. The first part of the work relates to the nature, causes, &c, of malformations. The influence of the parents, of one foetus upon another in cases of twins, of the position of the foetus, knottings of the cord, adhesions between the foetus and membranes, the effects of these are all severally pointed out. A short history of the literature of the subject is next given; and, lastly, a description of a large number of malformations, systematically arranged under the fol- lowing heads :—1. Monstra per excessum. 2. Monstra per defectum. 3. Monstra per fabricam alienam.