81 NERVOUS SYSTEM. Trousseau.—J. de Chir. et de Med. Pratiq., vol. xxxiii, p. 153. Mentions the case of a man dying with eclampsia, after having worked in lead for seven weeks. After death a notable amount of lead was found in the brain, the cord and the liver. He had been a great absinth drinker. Gull, W.—Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. viii. Records a case of progressive atrophy of the muscles of the hands, commencing as inability to extend the little and ring fingers of the right hand, with a sense of coldness and numbness of the part. After eleven months the right middle finger began to fail in a similar way, and five weeks later the three inner fingers of the left hand became weak and flexed in the same way, but without any numbness. The hands gradually wasted. Improve- ment took place under faradization, but he was soon attacked with typhus fever and died. On post-mortem examination a large cavity was found in the centre of the cord beginning at the fifth cervical, wider at the seventh, and tapering from thence downwards to the fourth dorsal. The cavity of the cord was occupied by fluid and lined by an imperfect epthelium. The only re- mains of the-grey matter were at the anterior part of the cavity behind the anterior columns; here the caudate vesicles had their normal size and struc- ture. The white columns and the nerve roots were normal. Moxon, "W., M.D.—Guy's Hospit. Reports, vol. viii. Describes the case of a female in whom all the nerves were uniformly en- larged, so as to be nearly three times their proper size, and this enlargement was found to depend not on any increase of the interstitial neurilemma, but on an unusual magnitude of the individual nerve tubides whose average diameter was gjjth to p^th inch. Triquet.—J. de Med. et de Chir. Pratiq., Dec. 1862. Records the case of a phthisical female, dying at the age of 28, who had had for some years chronic otorrhcea of the right side, and during the last weeks of her life facial paralysis of the same side. The tympanic cavity was found full of pus, the walls inflamed, the bony tissue surroimding the Fallopian canal condensed, and the nerve flattened. Eulenberg.—On Hypertrophy of the Heart, and Disease of the Cerebral Arteries in relation to Apoplexy. Virchow's Archiv., vol. xxiv, p. 329. Med. T. and Gaz., Oct. 25th. Eulenberg, from his own experience, and a comprehensive review of that of others, concludes (1) that in by far by the greater majority of cases cerebral haemorrhage is due to degenerations of the cerebral arteries as its predisposing cause. In the smaller arteries these consist of fatty metamorphosis or simple atrophy, with the various forms of consecutive dilatation; while in the larger arteries of the base there is arteritis issuing in ossification or fatty degene- ration, or passive calcification. (2) A not entirely rare cause of the rupture are true aneurisms of the large cerebral arteries. (3) Hypertrophy of the Left ventricle will only favour cerebral haemorrhage, when it permanently increases the normal tension of the aortal system. This is not the case in compensating hypertrophy of valvular disease of the heart. (4) In about 6