44 RKl'ORT ON PRACTICAL, MEDICINE. and fall of the year; (4) II appears to be fomented by similar atmospheric conditions, as regards hygrometric state, temperature, &c. Decomposing animal matters, in common with other physical and mental influences, which depress the vital powers, are but powerful predisposing causes. Herard.—On the Exhibition of Food in Typhoid Fever. J. de Med. et de Ohir. pratiq., May, 1861. Amer. Q. J. of Med. Sc., July. Herard advocates strongly the administration of nourishing food, soups, jellies, egg-flip, and wine in quantities proportioned fco the degree of pros- tration. When the digestive powers are much impaired he also administers pepsine. He refers to cases w here, as shown by Marotte, vomiting, diarrhoea, and delirium persisted during abstinence from food, and gradually subsided as nutriment was cautiously given and increased. The most marked distaste for food is not to justify its omission; the patients must at first be compelled to take it, and after a while they will receive it with pleasure, and with the most beneficial results. Convalescence is much more rapid in patients who have been well supported with nutriment throughout the fever, than in those who have been left without it. Kennedy, H.—Further Observations on Typhus and Typhoid Fevers, as seen in Dublin; especially the united form they assumed during the first half of the year, 1862. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Aug., 1862. Kennedy's experience leads him to differ from the view which asserts the non-identity of these fevers. He agrees with Huss that they arise from a common cause, observes that the symptoms in many cases are of a very mixed kind, and that during the course of an epidemic the type changes from typhus to typhoid. He lays some stress on the occasional occurrence of intestinal ulceration in other diseases besides typhoid, as in scarlatina and variola. He controverts Jenner's statement, that intestinal haemorrhage is characteristic of typhoid, affirming that he. has examined several cases, in which there had been extensive haemorrhage with well-marked symptoms of typhus, yet without any trace of ulceration. Neither does he find that epistaxis is much more frequent in typhoid than in typhus. In Dublin it is sure to prevail during hot weather, whatever the type of fever may be. Besides typhus and typhoid, Kennedy recognises a gastric type of fevere. He cites Dr. Gordon's experience as supplementing his own, and showing that ulceration of Peyer's glands may be met with in connexion with well- marked cases of typhus fever ; from which he concludes that the two types of fever may exist simultaneously in the same patient. Short accounts are given of forty cases, differing in many particulars from each other. As to treatment, Kennedy says that it must vary according to the character of each individual case. Leeches or a blister to the right iliac region are very often advisable;, and as an astringent sulphuric acid internally. If diarrhoea suddenly cease and the brain or chest become involved, a small blister should be put on the chest and the discharge maintained for some days. Stimulants, be thinks, are given too indiscriminately, and wine, he thinks, is generally safer than beef-tea.