REPORT ON SUROKRY. J 0:2 IV. Fever in Acute and Chronic (not Traumatic) Suppurations, and the effect of opening Abscesses on the general condition. Rigors at the beginning of inflammation of external parts.—The tem- perature (traumatic fever) rarely increases after injuries so rapidly as to excite a rigor; on the other hand, acute inflammations of the suh- cutaneou8 cellular tissue, of the muscles, of the periosteum, of the mamma, very often commence with one. Rigors coincide with the first rapid rise of inflammation, with the stage of congestion, and not with that of suppuration. The further course of the fever entirely depends on the local condition. It must he noticed that the efFect of opening an ahscess depends on the thickness of the parts divided ; where the knife incises only a very thin covering, it excites no fever whatever; where, on the other hand, it penetrates deeply, it not unfrequently evokes a great increase of temperature and a rigor. The immediate effect of opening a chronic or symptomatic abscess is the same, depending on the depth of the pus ; the after course, however, varies,—in a chronic abscess, without disease of bone, the fever generally is of moderate intensity, and lasts three to five days, until the inner wall of the abscess has been thrown off, when the latter may gradually contract and heal. If, however, the pus takes its origin from a disease of a bone or of a joint the effect of the incision is not unfrequently to change the chronic into an acute course; fresh inflammations spreading in the parts around, continually recur, and with them the fever rises and falls until, at length, too often, the patient sinks from exhaustion. " Elizabeth F—, twenty-four years of age, generally very healthy and robust, had been attacked with a most acute inflammation of the right knee seven weeks before her admission into the hospital. The pain was excruciating; the antiphlogistic and derivative treatment employed had had no effect; she was constantly somewhat feverish and much emaciated, very aneemic, and had become in the highest degree irritable. The pain in the knee was so violent as to cause great difficulty in her removal to the hospital, on the 6th December, i860. The knee was much flexed and swollen, but there was not much fluid in the joint; the leg was very cedematous. The evening temperature was 38-2°. On the 10th of December the knee was extended under chloroform, and an immovable bandage applied j an ice-bag was placed over this during four days, to relieve the pain, which had, however, already decreased, and soon almost disappeared. There was no doubt of the existence of a subacute purulent synovitis. After the extension there was a moderate fever (on the evening of the second day to 39'f), then a slow decrease in the heat, which continued, however, for eight days later, to reach in the evening to 38-1° 38-3°. Then the fever would sometimes entirely cease; but attacks of diarrhoea and a rather troublesome bed-sore repeatedly inter- fered with the regular course of convalescence and excited some fever. She was treated with Dec. Calumb., quinine, iron, and nourishing diet. The bandage had to be removed in four weeks, owing to ulceration of the heel and skin. It was not till February, 1861, that convalescence be- came regular; in Mav the patient had perfectly recovered her strength, and was able to leave the hospital, though still walking with a crutch.