SYPHILIS. 233 papules or tubercles, unattended by any ulceration. Indurated chancre is rarely found in the female sex, according to the universal testimony of all observers : it is rarely found, not because it is overlooked owing to tbe more difficult examination of female patients, as many assert, or because it bas healed without leaving a vestige, when the broad condyloma makes its appearance, but simply for the following reason :—the primary papule is at first formed by cells infiltrated in the cutis around the point of infection, and this papule passes directly into the broad condyloma by greater cell-proliferation in the rete Malphigii, by hypertrophy of the corpus papillate, and at a later period by the formation of connective tissue ; it is unattended by either induration or ulceration. Soft chancres in women may also become so transformed, as closely to resemble condylomata; Lindwurm confesses to having often made a wrong diagnosis in such cases : he says, "What I had considered as the commencement, as the stage of development of constitutional syphilis (ulcus elevatum, commencing broad condyloma), was only a simple chancre with luxuriant granulations. Not only chancres, but also other non-specific ulcers, when exposed to great irritation, as when placed behind the corona glandis in cases of balanitis or on the female genitals in cases of leucorrhoea, often present during the stage of healing a great tendency to the excessive formation of granulations. In such cases the fundus of the ulcer passes beyond the level of the surrounding skin ; such an ulcus elevatum has the greatest resemblance to a broad condyloma in process of development. Ricord, Fournier, Rollet, have already referred to cases of these lesions, which led me in former days to diagnose constitutional syphilis, when in reality there was none. I became convinced of the local nature of these processes by finding, that the weak solution of chloride of zinc without any constitutional treatment rapidly cured such proliferations, and that no constitutional symptoms occurred at a later period." He gives two cases in which hard sores were inoculated with pus from a soft chancre, and one in which a soft sore was inoculated with pus from a hard chancre; the latter was followed by constitutional syphilis. M. Diday has published an elaborate paper ('Arch. Gen.,' 1862, ii, 26, r 76) on second attacks of syphilis. He found, as the effect of the second attack, in sixteen cases a chancre only (indurated sore) ; in nine cases, a mild, and in two, a severe syphilis. As to the time which elapsed between the two attacks, he found, when he excluded the cases treated by mercury and those not watched for a sufficient period, an average of twenty-two months between thefirst attack and the second whereacbancreonly appeared (drawn from seven cases) ; between the former and the second chancre with mild syphilis, an average of forty-six months (drawn from nine cases); between the former and the second chancre with severe syphilis an average of nineteen and a half years (from two cases). He summarises his paper in the following conclusions:—1. Generally speaking, the syphilitic virus, like every other specific virus, does not exercise twice successively the same action on the same person. 2. Introduced into a syphilitic subject (under such physical conditions as permit absorption) the virus produces no effect; but when introduced into a person who has had, but no longer has, syphilis, it produces a modified svphilis.