25 ANIMAL HEAT. portion of the terminations of the pneurnogastric nerves in the lungs, and promotes thereby the process of inspiration. Edenhuizen performed experiments on rabbits, sheep, a dog, and other animals, for the purpose of ascertaining what changes take place in the organism when the action of the skin is suppressed. In some cases the entire skin, in others a part of it, was covered over with glue, oil-colour, varnish, gum, tar, &c. The animals the skin of which was entirely covered over died generally very soon. The symptoms under which death took place were the same as described by other observers, especially by Valentin. Albumen was found in the urine whilst the animals were still alive. The period in which death occurred was, on the whole, propor- tionate to the size of the animal, larger animals surviving the operation the longest. This circumstance is probably due to the proportion which the surface bears to the entire bulk of the body. The influence of partial suppression was tested on rabbits. Open places were left, of various sizes, from four cubic centimetres to half the surface. Generally, the smaller the open space left, the sooner the animals died. An animal in which four cubic centimetres were left free died at the end of ten hours ; another, with a-i6 cubic centimetres free surface, at the end of ninety hours. Death occurred with the same symptoms as when the entire animal was covered over. When only 100 to 200 cubic centimetres of the surface were covered, that is, one eighth to one twelfth of it, no marked symptoms occurred; but when one eighth to one sixth was covered, the animals died of the effects, and albumen was found. in the urine in every case. The post-mortem appearances were:—congestion of the internal organs, effusion into the serous cavities and into the subcutaneous tissues, and. ecchymosis in the mucous jnembrane of the stomach. Edenhuizen also discovered in the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the covered portions of skin and in the peritoneum of all animals which had died from the effects of the opera- tion numerous triplephosphate crystals and lymph-corpuscles. In the fresh blood of a rabbit which had died from the suppression of the action of the skin a large amount of ammonia was detected by means of hydrochloric acid. Edenhuizen concludes from these facts that in the healthy state a small quantity of nitrogen in the gaseous form is given off by the skin, and that, this function being suppressed, the nitrogen is retained in the blood in the form of ammonia, which is then deposited as triplephosphate in the above-mentioned places. The nitrogenous com- pound retained in blood acts as an irritant to the nervous system, producing rigors, palsies, cramps, and tetanic attacks. ANIMAL HEAT. AValthee, A..—Contributions towards the Knowledge of Animal Heat. Virchow's Arch., vol. xxv, p. 519. Walther made some interesting observations on the influence of re- frigeration on animal life. He states that a rabbit, the temperature of which has been lowered in a cooling apparatus to + 180 or + 10° C,