207 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. everywhere, and made additional pressure where requisite ; thus, from the consent of action between the two hands, the incisions were perfected with as much accuracy as if exposed to view. Again, as the bistoury- worked inside, the index finger of the left hand assisted to separate, to press out, to unfold, as it were, this matted structure. The result of all this subcutaneous proceeding was rendered manifest by the relaxation and flattening of the vicious growth ; and on the bistoury being withdrawn the flap fay as flat upon the upper and middle part of the neck as the healthy integument did at its base." The result was very satisfactory; seventeen months after the operation there was no tendency to a recur- rence of the deformity, the movements of the neck were free and graceful, the shoulder in its natural position, and the cicatrix of the wound caused by the operation could be entirely concealed by a high dress. SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. Deceptive Fluctuation.—M. Nelaton took the opportunity afforded by the admission of a man, who had received a severe injury of the forearm, to point out to his class an error which is frequently com- muted, and against which it is well to be prepared. The injury in question had been produced by a circular saw, revolving three or four hundred times in a minute; the skin, the superficial muscles, and the tendons had been divided, but neither the vessels nor the nerves had been seriously compromised. The wound had been brought to- gether by points of metallic suture, but, as usually happens in such cases, union had not taken place. In fact, when the muscles, the tendons, and the sheaths are divided, we should not attempt to bring about union by the first intention, as we shall fail in our endeavour, and may expose the patient to serious accidents. In the patient in question the dorsal sur- face of the hand was considerably swollen, and fluctuation seemed so distinct, that many persons would have supposed the swelling to be occa- sioned by a collection of purulent fluid. This was not the case, and M. Nelaton pointed out that there are various parts of the body where the tissues impart a deceptive sensation of fluctuation. In the upper extre- mity these parts are the dorsal surface of the hand and the upper and external part of the forearm on a level with the head of the radius. "Without a knowledge of this fact we should be very apt, on the occur- rence of a swelling in either of these regions, to introduce an instrument which would give issue to no fluid but blood. The same error has been committed a hundred times in the case of imaginary collections of pus in the substance of the calf of the leg, as well as in the upper and outer part of the thigh, in the situation corresponding to the tensor vaginae femoris. Another locality where this deceptive fluctuation occurs, is the inner and upper part of the thigh, on a level with the iliacus and psoas muscles. (' Journ. de Med. et de Chir. prat.,' and ' Edin. Med. Journ.,' viii, 67.') Diagnosis of abscess in the perinceum ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' vii, 814). — In treating these cases, Mr. Syme said, that wherever there were symptoms of difficulty and pain in making water, and the perinscum was seen 10 be at all prominent, a careful examination should be made