REPORT ON SURGERY. favorable; this is the actual cautery, which has of late been unjustifiably neglected, but which is believed by Professor Jiingken to be the only certain and reliable means for destroying the peculiar and dangerous con- tagion of hospital gangrene. To neglect the actual cautery is not only to do harm to the infected patients, but also to those not yet attacked, for milder means are insufficient to prevent contagion and further contami- nation of the surrounding atmosphere. There is now the less reason for the surgeon to hesitate in the employment of the actual cautery, as chlo- roform can be used to prevent all suffering during the application. In its use there are six points to be remembered:—i. The iron must be brought to a white heat; a less degree causes unnecessary suffering. 2. It must be employed as early as possible; best at the very commencement of the attack, to crush the disease in its bud, for then it is both safe and easy to destroy every particle of gangrenous tissue, to excite a plastic reaction in the healthy fundus, and yet only to cause a moderate loss of substance. If, however, the gangrene has already made some progress, if it has been of some duration, then—3. The whole of the gangrenous surface must be laid bare, sinuses and canals must be carefully laid open, dead portions of some size must be removed by the scissors or knife, the wound must be most carefully cleansed of all tissue which is already dead or disinte- grated, and perfectly dried by lint, sponge, or dossils of cotton-wool, so that the cautery may aGt on a clean and dry surface. 4. It must be applied especially to the edges of the ulcer, and everywhere it must pene- trate to healthy tissue, in order to excite regenerative action. 5. The patient must be at once removed from his chamber, and placed in a pure atmosphere ; best, in the open air; where that is not possible, in a room in which there are no other patients, and where, day and night, he is exposed to fresh air blowing through the open windows; if even the latter plan is impracticable, he must at all events be placed near a window which is open day and night; even in cold, rough weather he must be placed by an open window. 6. The elimination of the slough must be left to nature, and not promoted by warm fomentations or poultices, which relax the parts too much and favour relapses. In this way the slough will be thrown off a little later, but the reaction will be greater, the granulations more abundant, and cicatrization more rapid, especially if gentle irritants are applied to the ulcer. These local means must be assisted by suitable dietetic and pharmaceutical treatment; the great point is to keep up the patient's strength ; all medicines that promote disintegration or weaken the patient, especially mercurials, should be carefully avoided; the bowels should be kept regular by mild aperients. Mr. Paget can find but one thing which he can call remedial for pyaemia, and that is a profuse supply of fresh air. In the three most remarkable recoveries he has seen, the patients might be said to have lain day and night in the wind—wind blowing all about their rooms (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, ii, 161). Mr. Paget has also noticed a relation between rigors and convulsive disorders; thus, three years ago he cut a gentleman for stone; shortly after the operation he had a terrible rigor, and this was followed by great heat and sweating, and then by extensivesuppuration 111 the cellular tissue over his chest. Again, some days after, another rigor occurred, and this was succeeded by a similar suppuration and by other