430 ALKALOIDS. cardine, suffered during the period in question from abdominal sickness, and great weakness, in respect to which symptoms it appeared that the vomiting came on an hour after taking medicine administered by the daughter without medical advice. Towards the end of the period he became unwilling to take any more. The efforts the accused made to press it upon him aroused suspicion among the neighbours, who there- upon gave information to the Inspector of Poor, who found a cup which was proved to contain salts of sorrel by the bedside of the deceased. He was then removed and placed under medical care; the sickness ceased, and he appeared to rally, but afterwards gradually sank. Death occurred on the fifteenth day after his removal. It was further proved that on the 28th of December the prisoner had administered to her father a weak solution of sugar of lead in porter. At the post-mortem examination it was found that there was con- gestion of the gastric and intestinal mucous membranes, especially of the ilium, " a large portion of which was in a state of approaching sphacelus," its peritoneal investment being dark and friable. Minute traces of lead were detected by Professor Maclagan in the liver, spleen, and intestinal contents, but no indication of any other poison. In charging the jury, the Lord Justice-General directed them that, ad- mitting the salts of sorrel to have been the cause of death, it must have been given either in a single dose on the day on which it was found in the prisoner's possession, or at various periods in a succession of doses. His Lordship pointed out that neither of these hypotheses was proved, for "no salt of sorrel was traced to the prisoner till January nth, and it was in evidence that even if tbey came to the conclusion that, salts of sorrel had been administered, the death of the deceased should have resulted quicker, if caused by that dose. To make out a case of chronic poisoning, the Crown should have proved the continuous pos- session of the poison by the prisoner." ALKALOIDS. V. Uslae and Ebdmann.—On the Detection of the Alkaloids. Ann. d. Chem. u. Pharm., vol. cxx, pp. 121—188. The extreme difficulty and tediousness of the methods at present in use for the separation of a minute quantity of a poisonous vegetable base from a large quantity of other organic substances, have led the authors to devise a plan by which the research may be materially shortened without lessening its exactitude. Their process is founded upon the fact that the free alkaloids are readily soluble in pure, and particularly in boiling, amylic alcohol, which retains them in solution even in the presence of large quantities of water, provided the liquids be alkaline or neutral; and that the hydrochlorates of the alkaloids are almost insoluble in this menstruum, so that amylic alcohol holding a free alkaloid in solution is deprived of it almost entirely when agitated with water acidulated with hydrochloric acid. The method recommended is as follows :—The mass is to be first diluted to the consistence of a thin gruel with water, acidulated with hydrochloric acid, and then digested