RKl'ORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINK. 98 maniacal affection, which almost never ends in recovery. In cases of partial recovery the exudation undergoes change into connective tissue. Aliseiis, J. F.—On a Form of Acute Mania with Inflammatory Lesion of the Brain, and on the Indications for the Administration of Digitalis. Zeitschr. f. Psychiatr. vol. xvii, p. 305. J. of Mental Sc., July 1862. Albcrs, from numerous experiments and observations on the lower animals, as well as on man, deduces the following conclusions:—(1) Digi- talis reduces the pulse in frequency, but does not disturb the rate of breathing. Even when the heart is empty and brought to a standstill the regularity of the respiration proceeds. (2) The urine is increased in the healthy, and still more in those suffering from inflammatory dropsy, accompanied by inflammatory irritation of the serous membranes of the chest and abdomen. It subdues the inflamed state of the kidneys and restores them to their normal functional activity. In mental disturbance dependent on cerebral inflammation, especially of the serous membrane, digitalis exerts a remarkably curative effect when given after prehminary abstraction of blood and the use of antiphlogistics. (3) The solids of the urine are increased in amount, and particularly the urea, as shown both by chemical examination and by an increase of specific gravity. This alteration in the urine becomes manifest when the digitaUs has reduced the frequency of the pulse, and produced a feeling of lassitude. (4) The temperature of the body is reduced and equalised. (5) Vertigo, lassitude, debility, and moroseness accompany the reduction of the pulse by the drug. The last- named condition is a remarkable symptom associated with the operation of digitalis on the system. (6) The drug is applicable only to those cases of madness dependent on some inflammatory lesion. Meyer, L.—On the Use of Opium in Mental Disorder. Ztsch. f. Psychia- tric, vol. xvii, p. 453. J. of Mental Sc., July 1862. Meyer finds opium very beneficial in cases of ecstatic mania, and when- ever an hysterical condition accompanies mental disorder. He holds as a general truth that opium acts as a powerfid conservator of vital power, a restorer of expended energy and of prostrated nervous vigour. Berthier, P.—Fever in its Relations to Mental Disorder. Ann. Med.- Psych., Jan. 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 80. Every fever, says Berthier, has an influence on mental disorder, some- times a beneficial, sometimes an injurious, sometimes a transitory. Tem- porary improvement occurs in cases of excited delirium, deterioration often takes place in the melancholic, and in those whose delirium is complicated with convulsions or paralysis. A complete cure was observed in a female in the twenty-seventh month of her insanity and the second year of her treatment, after she had passed through a continued fever of bilious and adynamic character. In another case the cure ensued on variola, in a third on pneumonia. Tuberculosis and erysipelas have appeared to influ- ence insanity beneficially, but extensive burns and dysenteries have not.