REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. is the case, as in the early period of diabetes, in the stage of convales- cence, and not unfrequently towards the fatal close, the detection of the sugar is much more difficult. The proceeding he recommends is to boil first some of the test solution, and then add to it some drops of the suspected urine. If sugar be abundant, a thick yellowish opacity and deposit of yellow suboxide are produced (and this changes to a brick-red at once if the blue colour of the test remains dominant). If no such re- action ensue, go on adding urine, until a quantity equal to the bulk of the test employed has been poured in; heat again to ebullition; and no change occurring, set aside without further boiling. If no milkiness is pro- duced as the mixture cools, the urine may be confidently pronounced free from sugar, for no quantity above one-fortieth of a grain can escape such a search, and any quantity below that is devoid of clinical signifi- cance. Roberts describes in detail the method of estimating the quantity of sugar iu the mine by volumetrical analysis, employing Fehliug's solu- tion, and also that proposed by himself, in which the amount is estimated by the loss of density which takes place during fermentation. The latter is noticed in the Year-Book for i860, p. 106. Harvey, E. E., M.A., M.B.—The Influence of Mercury upon the Urine. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., April, 1862. Harvey finds that in dogs, while they retain their health, mercury exercises no influence upon the amount of urine or urea, but that the phosphates and entire ash are always in a very remarkable degree dimi- nished. The effect of mercury upon the urine is therefore to diminish the secretion of the salts. Fuller, H. W., M.D.—Clinical Lectures on Oout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, and Sciatica. Lancet, Dec. 13th, 20th, 27th. Fuller in noticing the two forms of tonic and atonic gout proposes to regard the first as gout arising from an excessive formation of uric acid, and gout arising from defective excretion of uric acid. He relates examples of these states, and of an intermediate one, and details the treatment which is bene- ficial. He has no fear of colchicmn when it is used judiciously, and states as a general ride that the efficacy of the remedy and the safety of its adminis- tration appear to be proportioned to the freedom with which the kidneys act. In healthy persons, who are passing urine of high specific gravity and loaded with lithates, its administration is safe and its efficacy con- spicuous ; whereas in weakly persons whose kidneys are damaged, and who are passing tolerably clear urine of low specific gravity, its action is unsatis- factory, often depressing, and sometimes dangerous. In moderate doses, Fuller believes that colchicmn exercises a specific influence in checking the formation of lithic acid. In sthenic gout the diet at first must be very restricted, but as the symptoms subside may be generous. In asthenic gout the diet must be tolerably supporting at the outset, but must be very care- fully regulated in convalescence. With regard to rheumatic fever Fuller declares that the success of full alkaline treatment in his hands has been marvellous, and that not one patient under his care whose heart was free from miscluef on admission, " has left the hospital with that organ