119 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. of collapsing. Dogs submerged after the windpipe had been plugged, recovered after four minutes submersion, and when chloroformed they recovered after submersion for two minutes' fifteen seconds. Various means of resuscitation, venesection, galvanism, cold splashing, the actual cau- tery, artificial respiration, puncture of diaphragm, hot douche alternated with cold, were tried, but though some were occasionally of manifest ad- vantage, no one was of such unequivocal efficacy as to warrant its being specially recommended. Of the different methods practised to produce ar- tificial respiration, Dr. Silvester's was found the most efficacious, producing in several instances a regular exchange of air, exceeding thirty cubic inches, and in one amounting to fifty. When the tongue was drawn forward and the larynx pressed backward against the spinal column, it was foimd per- fectly practicable to inflate the lungs through the mouth of the subject. Czermak, J.—On the Local Treatment by Means of the Laryngoscope. Med. T. and Gaz., May 3rd. Czermak proposes to introduce a thin tube, curved at a right angle, and so placed that its shorter branch, furnished with a capillary orifice, may be entirely visible in the mirror of the laryngoscope. " After this has been done, the image of that part of the larynx which it is intended to reach is looked at with the image of the short branch of the tube, as if it were the real tube, and the extremity of the real tube will then naturally direct itself exactly towards the real object of this image of the part of the larynx. The current of air, charged with the powder or liquid jet, when suddenly driven into the indicated direction, must necessarily reach the intended spot of the larynx. During the operation the respiratory move- ments must not be too hurried." Mackenzie, M., M.B.—Phlebectasis Laryngea. Lancet, July 5th. Mackenzie has observed, by means of the laryngoscope, distended veins on the true or false vocal cords, or in other parts of the larynx, and con- siders that they may give rise to hoarseness, cough, or even oedema glottidis. He advocates local astringent apphcations, as 3SS of tannin ad Jiij of water, and tine, capsici, tl|xv ad aq. |j. Lewin, G.—Contributions to Laryngoscopy. Deutsche Klinik, 1862, Nos. 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 25. Lewin finds mention, in the works of various authors, of ten laryngeal tumours, of which six were polypoid, two cancroid, two ossific. He then details the proceeding he employs for the removal of laryngeal polypi. The patient's head is to be fixed by a contrivance similar to that used by photographers. _ The tongue is to be held protruded by the patient grasp- ing the end of it with a cloth. The operator then introduces a curved forceps or scissors, which he brings down close to the upper vocal cords, but without touching them. The patient is then directed to inspire deeply, and to hold his breath in inspiration, while the operator instantly grasps the polypus, and detaches as much of it as possible. Several sconces are generally requisite. In some cases he employs caustics, of which he prefers nitrate of silver and chromic acid. The former he applies, by