REPORT ON SURGERY. 298 of the fauces, occurring in a young man, aged twenty-seven, whose external appearance presents every sign of good health and of the com- plete absence of any constitutional affection. His account of the disease is very meagre, yet given with a clearness that leaves no room for doubt. Three months ago, he felt a small lump in the pharynx, which, however, did not cause any inconvenience either in swallowing or breathing. A month later, he perceived a tumour in the isthmus of the fauces ; it increased rapidly in size, and in a short time had reached a very con- siderable bullc. The extreme difficulty, that it occasioned in his breathing, obliged him to enter the hospital. " So far as can be ascertained by opening the mouth to its fullest extent, the tumour commences on a level with the posterior edge of the hard palate, and occupies all the left part of the soft palate, pressing the uvula completely to the right, and forcing it against the last molar tooth of the same side. This swelling is covered by the tissue of the soft palate, which is highly distended, red, and ulcerated at two points. " The finger passed behind the base of the tongue cannot precisely dis- tinguish the lower limits of the disease; we perceive perfectly that the tumour descends into the pharynx, attached to the left side, and extends too far down for its termination to be exactly determined. This lower and deeper part of the tumour does not present the same sensation to the touch or the same aspect to the eye, as the portion situated in the palate: whilst the latter is very regular, smooth, arched, and presents a uniform surface, the lower portion, on the contrary, is unequal, rugose, and jagged, suggesting the idea of hard tubercles, of irregular vegetations, of a slightly cartilaginous consistence. " Let us consider, from whence this tumour springs, and what are its relations to the surrounding parts, especially in regard to its treatment by operation. Has it arisen from the inferior surface of the basilar process, as is so often the case with naso-pharyngeal polypi? The slightest examination proves the contrary ; the nasal fossae are quite free, the tumour does not proceed from their cavity. Does it come from the left pterygoid process, which bounds on the outer side, as you know, the posterior aperture of the nasal fossae? I believe not. The tumour does not appear to be connected with the hard palate; it is separate, and seems to be pressed upon that part, but not to be attached to it. I will explain how I have made this diagnosis. It is not enough to press the tumour with the finger and to try to move it, for it touches the vertebral column and cannot be moved from before backwards, though it can be displaced from below upwards ; but if when the patient's mouth is open, the lobe of the tumour, which is felt externally in the submaxillary region, is moved, the motion is communicated to the tumour of the throat, which changes its position slightly in the same direction, a circumstance which shows that it has no connexion with the surrounding bones. By causing the patient to elevate and depress the lower jaw, and placing one finger on the tumour, we can satisfy ourselves that it does not adhere to the lower jaw, but simply slides over its surface. "The functional symptoms are extreme difficulty in breathing and swallowing; as the tumour almost closes the isthmus of the fauces, only liquids can pass, There is nlso a very manifest alteration in the voice.