50 REPORT ON l'KACTICAL MKIMCIXK. then cutaneous eruptions, conjunctivitis, and oedema. Arsenic is extremely soluble in glycerine, 3ij of the latter dissolve 3j of arsenious acid. The Sanitary Commission (Amer. Q. J. of Med. Sc., April, 1862, p. 492) reports strongly in favour of re-vaccination in all bodies of men exposed to variolous contagion; and as strongly in favour of the prophylactic power of quinine as a protective against malarious infection. They report that tin: hitler has a period of incubation varying from six to twenty days, that it may either induce re- or intermittent fever, or any of the other forms of miasmatic disease, or may only impress the paroxysmal type on some intercurrent malady of a different land, or without causing any actual attack of sickness, may give rise to malarial cachexy. Greenhow, E. H., M.D.—On Brass-founders' Ague. Trans, of Med.- Chir. S., vol. xlv. The attacks commence with malaise, and tightness of chest, sometimes accompanied by nausea. They always occur during the after part of a day spent in the casting-shop, and are followed in the evening by shivering, sometimes succeeded by an indistinct hot stage, but always by profuse sweating. The sooner this follows the setting-in of the cold stage, the shorter and milder is the attack. The non-habituated suffer most. Slight causes are apt to reproduce the disorder in the predisposed. Albees, J. F. H.—On GEsculin and its application in Diseases. Deutsche Klinik, April 12th. This is a white crystalline powder, obtained from the bark of the horse- chesnut, soluble in 600 parts of cold, and in thirteen of boiling, water, and devoid of basic properties. It has been found effectual in cases of inter- mittent fever which had resisted quinine. It is said to increase remarkably the flow of blood to the brain and cord. It seems 'to agree better than quinine with irritable stomachs. McCraith.—Med. T. and Gaz., Aug. 2nd. He writes to say, that Mons. Chasseaud finds an injection of two grains of quinine in an alcoholic solution under the skin to be as effectual as scruple doses given in the usual way. Rogers.—Amer. Med. T., Aug. 9th. He finds that quinine exerts a strong prophylactic influence against malaria for one or two months. By means of quinine, and occasional removals from the locality, health may be well preserved for years. Meller, C. J.—Fevers of the South Coast of Africa. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 25th. Meller distinguishes a sthenic form of fever, an asthenic, and an ephe- meral. Quinine does not prove a prophylactic, men not taking it at all being quite as free from fever as those who take it regularly. It is, how- ever, essential in the treatment of developed attacks after the liver has been