REPORT ON PORENSIC MEDICINE. 478 ■was ascertained by collateral evidence that this was the mode of death, only a quarter exhibited traces of external violence. In cases of infanticide by strangulation the larynx is occasionally com- pressed by the fingers, but more frequently a thin ligature is used, which, after passing twice round the neck, is tightened, so as to obstruct breathing. Accordingly the mark found after death is usually double, the two furrows being of unequal depth. The marks of compression by the fingers are sometimes livid and ecchymosed, sometimes exhibit the appearance of parchment, but not unfrcquently are dead-white and without lustre. The skin between the impressions and on either side of the furrow of the ligature forms a " red rim, infiltrated with blood." Ecchymosis is some- times confined to the subcutaneous cellular tissue, but occasionally extends to the sterno-mastoid and sterno-hyoid muscles or to those of the larynx. In some cases it is observed iu the submucous cellular tissue of that organ; fracture of the laryngeal cartilages is a frequent result of this kind of violence. The parchment appearance is observed in a much less marked degree in infancy than at later periods of life. Five cases illustrative of this form of infanticide are related, in which it appears that, with the exception that the laryngeal mucous membrane exhibits almost invariably a marked degree of redness, corresponding to the seat of violence, the internal lesions in cases of strangling do not differ in any respect from those observed in suffocation. From facts derived from the twenty-five cases above referred to the author concludes that an emphysematous condition of the lungs arising from putrefaction is exceedingly rare, and that when it does occur it does not in any degree detract from the value of the lung test, for no con- dition of putrescence is sufficient to give buoyancy to the lung of an infant which has not breathed; that a lung which has been artificially inflated may be at once recognised by the circumstance that air only penetrates the anterior margin of the organ; that the meconium is expelled during the first hours of life, and that, consequently, the absence of this fluid affords an indication that the child has lived for some hours; that the umbilicus of a mature foetus is not equidistant from the ex- tremities of the body, as is maintained by Chaussier, but a little below the middle ; and lastly, that the ratio stated by Plouquet to exist between the weight of the lungs and that of the body at maturity, viz., i to 70, does not hold good. In cases of infanticide by submersion, whether in water or other liquids, Toulmouche enumerates the following lesions as most certainly indicating that the infant has been immersed alive:—Engorgement of the cerebral veins and sinuses with liquid, black blood ; distension of the right cavities of the heart with the same liquid, with emptiness of the left cavities and of the aorta; congestion of the lungs; distension of the venous system of the liver; and a " general bluish tinge" of the skin, accompanied with pallor. But the most constant fact of all is that of "the existence in the bronchial tubes and their divisions of a frothy liquid, resembling whipped mucilage (Veau albumineuse battue), sometimes white, sometimes rose- coloured or reddish, which escapes abundantly from all the cut extremi- ties of the bronchial tubes, on pressing portions of lung between the fingers. When the body is immersed after death it rarely happens that