441 ALKALOIDS. but dissolves very readily in alcohol, ether, benzine, and chloroform. It cannot be crystallised, in which respect it differs remarkably from the preparation known as Morson's aconitine, which, in the opinion of the authors, is another body, containing very little of the active principle. The conclusions of the authors as to the actions of aconitine are based on a large number of experiments, of which frogs, rabbits, and guinea- pigs were the subjects. As regards the mode of absorption of aconitine, the results of their observations were as follows: When the alkaloid was applied (in frogs) to the uninjured skin of the back, toxical phenomena did not appear until seventeen minutes had elapsed ; when from two to nine mgrm. were inserted into the subcu- taneous cellular tissue, the first signs of poisonous action occurred in periods which varied from four minutes (guinea-pig) to eight minutes (rabbit). When aconitine, suspended in water, was placed on the cornea of a rabbit, no effect was observable excepting contraction of the pupil of the eye into which it was introduced; but the aqueous humour from the same eye, when introduced into the cellular tissue of a frog, pro- duced deatli in an hour. When swallowed in quantities of from one sixth to one third of a grain, toxical effects supervened in from four to ten minutes in guinea-pigs and in four or five minutes in rabbits, whence it appears that aconitine is absorbed from the alimentary canal much more rapidly than curare or strychnine. The alkaloid is regarded by the authors as a narcotico-acrid poison, which exercises its stimulant action mainly on the mucous membranes. In this respect they differ from those observers who have regarded the narcotic and acrid actions of the root as dependent on different immediate principles, and con- sider that both are possessed by the alkaloid, even in its purest state. Under the influence of aconitine, the great vital functions are arrested in the following order:—respiratory movements, general sensibility, reflex action, voluntary motion. In frogs "paralysis of the lungs" is always the earliest sigu of poisoning; the respiratory movements become feeble ; and as soon as breathing has entirely ceased, two deep impressions may be noticed, one on each side of the belly, which imply that the contrac- tibility of the lungs is annihilated. In rabbits and in guinea-pigs the function of respiration is also first interfered with. The animal sud- denly becomes still and the nostrils dilate; in another moment it tosses itself about, while the respiration becomes difficult and frequent, and then suddenly ceases. These phenomena may be variously explained. They may be attributed to the action of the poison on the peripheral motor fibres of the nerves, a view which is rendered untenable by the fact that in frogs poisoned by aconitine the limbs contract vigorously when the nerves are excited by a galvanic current; or it may be supposed that the muscles are deprived of their irritability. As all the muscles contract strongly under the galvanic stimulus, this hypothesis is also inadmissible; so that the only possible assumption appears to be that the medulla oblongata is the seat of toxical action, a view which is further confirmed by the fact that the cessation of respiratory movement is immediately followed by loss of sensibility, which may also be regarded as of central origin— that is, dependent on impairment of the functions of the medulla, not