REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 188 deserving attention in judging of a patient's condition are, the rate of the ]>ulse, the presence ur absence of night-sweats, and the gain or loss of bodily weight. In females the absence of the catanienia is an unfavourable sign, 80 per cent, of those who had been amcnorrhojic for three or four months lost ground decidedly. Smith, E., M.D.—On the Nature of Phthisis Pulmonalis, and especially of its First or Pre-tubercular stage. Amer. J. of Med. Sc., Jan. 1862. Smith argues against the usually-received view, that phthisis essentially depends on a change in the blood, and criticises especially the view formerly held by liokitansky of a fibrin-crasis of this fluid giving origin to tubercle. His own view is, that the action of the air-cells is diminished, and that their lining epithelium accumulates and degenerates, and constitutes the morbid product. His chief argument lies in the statement that numbi i < bf persons "believed to be prone to phthisis" exhibit flattening and lessened mobility of the chest, feebleness and shortness of inspiration, and lessened vesicular murmur, similar to, but probably to a less extent, than that which is found in the early stages of phthisis. Diminished action of the air-cells he thinks very likely to result from various depressing agencies. The localization of tubercle at the apices he accounts for by this part of the lung being the last to be distended by the downward traction of the diaphragm. Early haemoptysis is induced by the diminished amount of blood in the diseased part, and its accumulation consequently in others. Jones, J.—Clinical Enquiry into the Use of Iron in Pulmonary Consump- tion. Med. T. & Gaz., March 22nd. Jones lays great stress on the administration of iron for a very long period—one, two, three, or more years—as long as not only the condition of, but the tendency to, tuberculosis exists. He thinks that a small dose— in., iij - v of a 10-per cent, tincture of the perchloride twice or thrice daily, will often be found sufficient. Fronmulleu.—Caoutchouc Electuary in Tuberculosis. Memorab., vi, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 164. Of twenty-seven cases nineteen were improved, the cough was lessened, as well as the night-sweats, and the appetite was increased. Chambers, T. K.—On the Treatment of Pulmonary Consumption. Brit. Med. J., May 17th. Chambers lays down, that it is not the existing tubercle, but the tendency to form fresh tubercle, which we have to fear and guard against. The grand object is to improve the nutrition of the body as much as possible, and to supply an abundance of albuminous food. Cases do occur in which tubercular disease appears to be stayed in its development by the habit of spirit-drinking, the alcohol acting as an anaesthetic. l\ is not, however, desirable to advise the resumption of drinking habits ; an effort must be made to invigorate the digestion. Chambers has tried the excreta of serpents, as lately recommended, but the effects were simply those of so much pump-water. Dr. Cotton, at the Brompton Hospital, has also