407 PREGNANCY AND CHILD-BED. cukted to give rise to inflammatory action. In 19 the attack followed upon some form of puerperal fever which had presumably arisen inde- pendently of difficult parturition or any obvious injury of the uterine organs. The object in thus dividing the cases is to show that uterine injury is less frequently the cause of phlegmasia dolens than is gene- rally supposed. The author states that the views he has expressed as to the blood origin of the disease are supported by the facts of cases of phlegmasia dolens in non-puerperal individuals. He has collected 40 such cases. In 10 of these the attack followed upon some form of fever; in 11 it followed on exposure to cold; in 8 it occurred in the progress of pulmonary consumption or some other constitutional dis- ease ; in 7 it followed upon the operation of local causes calculated to vitiate the blood, such as suppurating sores, malignant ulcerations, &c.; in 3 cases it followed sudden suppression of the catamenia, which in 2 was occasioned by exposure to cold. The author submits that it is a matter of inference from the clinical facts alone that it is to an ab- normal condition of the blood that we must look for the immediate origin of the disease. The symptomatology is next discussed. The disease may be simple, the attack coming on—1, during convalescence from some form of puerperal fever; 2, in connection with large losses of blood; 3, as result of exposure to cold; 4, from dietetic errors; or it may be complicated, as with puerperal fever, pelvic inflammation, &c. The morbid anatomy is next described, the general conclusion being that the lesions are so varied that the " phlebitic" theory of the origin of the disease will not account for it. The second lecture is chiefly occu- pied by a resume of the author's researches previously related in the ' Medico-Chirurgical Transactions,' into the origin of phlebitis as connected with the pathology of phlegmasia dolens, from which it appears that phlebitis occurring as a local disease, and from the operation of a local cause, is never associated with the phenomena of phlegmasia dolens, but that when it arises from or in connec- tion with constitutional causes, or from local causes calculated simul- taneously to infect the blood generally, then that the lesion of the veins is very generally accompanied with the symptoms of phlegmasia dolens; the phlebitis plays a prominent, though subordinate, part in the phenomena of the disease. Thus, the clinical and the physiological facts point to the blood origin of the disease. In the third lecture the treatment is considered. This is to be chiefly preventive. Irritations of the solids tending to inflammatory disease are first considered. The usual dietary after labour the author considers hardly suited for the purpose of adequately supporting the vigour of the system and ena- bling it to sustain the important actions thereto incidental. He recom- mends strong beef tea to be given daily to the patient, in quantities regu- lated by the requirements of the case : good milk diluted with barley water as an ordinary drink. Such a dietary is to be preferred to one exclusively watery and farinaceous. Irritations connected with after- pains, urinary retention, an overloaded or neglected state of the bowels, &c, are to be prevented by careful management of the labour. After- pains are prevented by allowing the expulsion of the foetus and after- birth to be effected slowly, care being taken that clots are not left