IGO REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. CUTANEOUS SYST] M. Clemens, F. W.—Contribution to our Knowledge of the Physiological Action of Baths. Med. Ccntr. Ztg., xxx, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 161. Clemens found that baths, whether simple or medicated, always produce their greatest effect on the urine in the first fifteen to twenty minutes. During the same period, therefore, absorption, if it occurs, must go on most rapidly, but he was unable to detect iron, or pot. iod., or any other substance added to the baths, in the urine. He is obliged, therefore, to explain the diuretic effect by an action on the nerves of the skin. Experi- ments with a single finger dipped in solution of chl. sodium prove very neatly that the skin does absorb, and subsequently throws off again the absorbed substance. Hydr. bichlorid. is absorbed very quickly. If the finger be held seven minutes in a solution of 31] ad aq. dist. Jiii ss, it absorbs so much of the salt that when it is washed clean and placed in a wineglass of water to which chloride of tin is added, the liquid becomes almost quite black. Inman, T.—On Night-sweats. Lond. Med. Rev., June 1862. In man argues that night-sweats are the result of exhaustion, and directs, to prevent them, that prolonged sleep is to be prevented, and food given during the night. Hunter, C.—On the Physiological Action of the Turkish Bath. Lancet, June 14th. Hunter finds that these baths produce a stimulating effect on the circu- lation, if the temperature is not too high, above a certain varying limit they depress it. Used in moderation and in suitable cases, the bath is a valuable remedy in removing local congestions, and setting up a new and healthy action of the system. It may, however, be injurious where the circulating organs are diseased. Beneke.—On the Action of the Thermal of Nauheim. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 101. Beneke distinguishes the local from the general action. The latter he believes to depend solely on the influence of the bath on the cutaneous nerves, and the secondary effects to consist in changes of tissue metamor- phosis, the daily variations of which are greatly increased, as well as the weight of the body. The beneficial effect of the bath consists, therefore, in an elevation of depressed nerve power. For this result, however, the stimulus of the bath must be duly proportioned to the individual: if it is too great the action is depressing, and the vital power and the bodily weight is lowered. Scrofulous disease, general debility, eczema, psoriasis, rheumatism, and gout are benefited by these baths. Karner.—Ditto, p. 85. Contends that the temperature of baths should be regulated not by the thermometer, but by the sensations of each individual. The action of the