REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKIMCINE. 34 RlHB*MI80H, Ed.— On Inflammation of the Serous Membranes. Virch. Arcli. xxiii, p. 519, 1861. Rindfleisoh lays stress on the communication of the morhid action from the first affected part to an adjacent by means of the continual move- ment of the surfaces one over the other. He points out that where the movement is limited the inflanmiatiou remains more circumscribed. The cells found in recent exudation on serous membranes do not appear to proceed from the epithelium, no trace of which is discoverable. Goltz.—On the Influence of the Central Organs of the Nervous System on the Vegetative Processes. Virchow's Archiv. vol. xxiii, p. 451. Goltz separated one of the lower limbs of a rabbit from all connexion with the trunk, except the femoral artery and vein. He found that all the vegetative processes went on as before; the blood circulated, the arterial changed into venous, and inflammatory action was excited in the separated limb for the first twenty-four hours, just as when it was in its normal con- dition. He behoves therefore that the influence of the nervous centres is non-essential to the vegetative functions. Eindfleisch, E.; Buhl, L.; Klob, J.; Neumann.—Researches on the for- mation of Pus. Virch. Arch, xv, p. 239, xxi, p. 486, p. 480. Wien Wochenbl. xvii, 28, 1861. Konigsb. Med. Jahrb. ii, pp. 226—247. Schmidt's Jahrb. vol. 113, p. 24. From examination of the inflamed corneas of frogs Eindfleisch describes pus corpuscles as developed from connective tissue corpuscles, whose nuclei have greatly multiplied, by transverse division. In inflamed mucous mem- branes he finds at the margin of the epithelium, and also hi its lower layers, a layer of young connective tissue cells of partly puriform character. These elevate the epithelium at the spots where they are accumulated into masses, and finally perforate it and escape. This occurs in what he calls epithelial catarrh, while in purulent catarrh the pus corpuscles are generated endogenously in the epithelial cells themselves. Buhl found in a case of inflamed biliary ducts the cylindrical epithelial particles enlarged, and sometimes containing pus corpuscles as well as the original nucleus, which, therefore, could not have given rise to them by partition. The epithelial cells themselves were seen in process of division. Klob, in examination of puriform subarachnoid exudation, found cells containing pus corpuscles, besides particles of pavement epithelium. He discovered this epithelium not only on the outer surface of the arachnoid, but on the deep, where it bridges over the sulci, and also on the pia mater at the same spots where it is separated from the arachnoid. Neumann, from a study of granulations, inflamed serous, and mucous membranes, and lungs, comes to the following conclusions. . (1) The development of pus from epithelium is not proved. (2) The pus cells secreted on free, non-ulcerating surfaces proceed always from the connective tissue, and are produced either on the surface itself bj peripheric sprouting from the connective tissue cells, as in the case of granu- lations, and probably of catarrhal mucous membranes, orinfhe interior of the tissue, and are then thrown off as is the case in inflammation of mucous and serous membranes. (3) The intercellular substance of the con-