REPORT ON SURGERY. 268 talo-calcanean modification, he lias had nineteen in all, and lias found the patients well able to stand and walk ; the heel was generally elevated to the extent of a quarter of an inch or so, an amount not sufficient to have any injurious effect. The statement of Szymanowski that the ankle-joint becomes anchylosed after Chopart's amputation, is, according to Ulasius, not correct. The great advantage of this operation over Pirogoff s is that the limb remains of its natural length. Professor Szymanowski ('Prag. Viertelj.,' and Canstatt's 'Jahresb.,' 1861, v, 260) has collected the cases of amputation performed at the Clinic of Dorpat since 1812, with the view of determining the length of time re- quired for the healing of the wound. The total number of amputations was 110, and the per-centage of mortality was 22'Q3. The average period required for healing was,—(1) for amputation of the thigh, fifteen weeks (3I months) ; the shortest was four, the longest twenty-one weeks : in eleven cases the wound was only twice healed before the twelfth week. (2) In thirty-three cases of amputation of the leg, ten weeks (2.1 months). The variation was from three to twenty-four weeks ; usually, however, re- covery took place before the tenth week. (3) In removal of the arm, seven weeks(if month) : the shortest two, the longest fourteen weeks. (4) In the forearm, ten weeks (2^ months) ; the deviation in the few cases was from four to twenty-five weeks. (5) In the foot, nine weeks (2^ months) ; the shortest was nine, and the longest twenty weeks. (6) In the hand, four weeks (1 month) ; variation from one to twelve weeks. M. Polano, report on the amputations at Rotterdam (' Lond. Med. Rev.,' ii, 168) : Mr. Holt on amputation in a case of pulmonary tuber- culosis (' Lancet,' 1862, i, 516): M. Trelat, statistics of amputations in Paris (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1862, p. 204). J. F. Heyfelder, in a case of necrosis after amputation of the thigh, enucleated the rest of the femur by an incision on the outer side of the limb ('Deuts. Klin.,' 1862, p. 276) : Mr. Lister, on compression of the aorta in amputation at the hip-joint (already noticed under the head of haemorrhage) ; M. Gueniot on a peculiar hallucination of certain patients who have suffered amputation ('Jouni. de Physiol.iv, 416) : Mr. Pem- berton on amputation by rectangular flaps (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' i86r, ii, 631). SPECIAL SURGERY. HEAD. Injuries : In a communication made to the Surgical Society of Paris, M. Dolbeau has called attention to the presence of ecchymosis of the rc- tro-pharyngeal cellular-tissue as a sign of fracture of the base of the skull. In a case at Bicetre under M. Despretz, a fracture of the frontal bone was found to be continuous with one of the base, which passed as far as the basilar process: blood was infiltrated behind the pharynx, from the occipital bone to the second cervical vertebra, and the mucous membrane was ecchymosed ; the patient had complained of pain in his throat and of some difficulty in swallowing. The second was under M. Velpcau; the