REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 90 Faluet.—Report on Gheel. Annales. Med. Psychol., Jan., 1862. Med. Critic and Psychol. J., April, 1862. Both authors believe that the colonial sy stem is, on the whole inferior, to that of the asylum; it may be preferable for certain cases, and the one may be made to supplement the other. Flemming does not speak hopefully of the practicability of attaching insane colonies to existing asylums. Falret suggests that it may be possible to annex to the asylums for the insane an agricultural farm, receiving patients from, and sending them back to tbe asylum, as need may arise, under the advice of the physician. This form may also render the asylum in some measure self-supporting. Koster.—On the Influence of the Moon on Periodic Insanity. AUg. Ztschr. f. Psychiat., xvi, 1859, xviii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. m> r ml ... Koster regards especially the influence of the greater or less distance of the moon from the earth. He states that the commencement of an attack of mama coincides, or nearly, with the perigEeum, and the tennination with the apogasum. Intercurrent bodily disorders exert a transitory influence on the duration of the periods of periodic insanity, but not on the principal character of its type. Addison, A.—On the Pathological Anatomy of the Brain in Insanity. J. of Mental Science, April 1862. Addison in his prize essay reviews the various morbid alterations which are met with in cases of insanity, and concludes that the pathological lesions of the cerebral tissue are not the final and ultimate causes of insanity; for in all cases it is necessary to assume a special and specific irritability of the nervous tissue peculiar to the insane. American Insane Hospital Reports. Mount Hope Institution. Anier. Q. J. of Med. Sc., April 1862, p. 482. The author, while admitting the Liability of the doctrine to be abused, contends for the real existence of a moral insanity, in which certain feelings and passions are disordered, without any aberration of intellect. Homicidal impulse, and oinomania, seem to be similar affections, where the morbid impulse is unaccountable and uncontrollable. Report on the Lunatic Asylums of Holland for 1857, '58, '59. Review. Brit. & For. Med.-Chir. Eev., July, 1862. The total mortality in all the asylums was 801, of which apoplexy caused 120, marasmus 305, diarrhoea 22, phthisis 155, other diseases 199. Epidemics of ague, catarrhal ophthalmia, and smallpox prevailed in one or more of the asylums. Many, and some remarkable, cases were observed of recovery, sometimes from an apparently incurable state, in consequence of the supervention of intermittent fever. In such cases it seems from the evidence adduced that the ague should be left to itself. This, however, applies to sporadic, for epidemic ague may produce mania, and its cure is beneficial in cases of insanity. A remarkable instance is mentioned of a woman who had been twenty-eight years in a state of melancholy, requiring