ALKALOIDS. 1 15 well. In the second case a child, aged two years, swallowed an un- known quantity of laudanum. The skin was pale, cold, and clammy ; the pulse slow and weak; the breathing slow and laboured; the pupils were excessively contracted; the coma was profound. Tincture of belladonna was given in doses of fifteen minims, repeated every twenty minutes until Jour doses had been taken. After the second dose the temperature of the skin increased, after the third the child recovered consciousness, and in two hours was almost well. In concluding his paper, the author remark's on the importance of the indications for the therapeutic use of belladonna and opium in disease which are afforded by the condition of the pupil. ATROPINE. Botkix.—On the Phj/siolor/ical Action of Sulphate of Atropine. Yir- chow, vol. xxiv, p. 83. In the following experiments a concentrated solution of sulphate of atropine in water was employed. Five minutes after the injection of this solution beneath the skin of the back of a frog, the extremities were paralysed, being unaffected either by pinching or by the application of strong acetic acid. Keflex contractions, however, were observable until eight minutes after the injection, when they entirely ceased. No effect whatever was produced by the application of the electrodes, either of the constant or the interrupted current, to the nerves, but by the direct application of the latter the muscles were tetanized. It thus appeared that sulphate of atropine has the property of annihilating the excitability of the nerves, but leaves the muscles for a time intact. The author next inquired in what part of the nervous system (centre or periphery) the poison principally exerts its action. "With a view to the solution of this question, the same experiment was repeated, with this difference, that the femoral artery of one side was previously tied. In a few minutes the limb not operated upon was half paralysed, while the other retained its normal sensibility and motility. Until fifteen minutes after the injection it was observed that contractions could be produced in the limb in which the circulation had been arrested, by irritating the poisoned limb. At a later period no such effect resulted, although direct irritation of the unparalysed limb, either by pinching or other- wise, at once caused contractions of its muscles. The irritation of the sciatic nerve of the paralysed limb by the interrupted current produced no contractions in the corresponding muscles, but the muscles of the unparalysed limb reacted strongly under the same stimulus. The pre- pared gastrocnemii of both legs were then placed in the same direction on Meissner's zinc electrodes,* and subjected in succession to an inter- rupted current, whereupon it appeared that the muscles of the unpa- ralysed leg contracted more vigorously than the other. From the preceding facts the author concludes that the sulphate of atropine acts on the nerves through the circulation, no toxical effect being recog- nisable in a limb to which the access of blood is prevented by the * These consist of a couple of plates of amalgamated zinc, fixed at a sufficient distance from each other on a plate of glass. Each is covered with two layers of paper; of these, the lower is steeped in solution of sulphate of zinc ; the upper, on which the mu-selc to he ti slcd rests, in solution of albumen.—Ed.