269 HEAD. patient had some pain in swallowing and there was an ecchymosis of the pharynx: recovery took place and therefore the existence of fractured base was not certain. The third case also recovered ; the patient presented a subconjunctival ecchymosis, and traumatic emphysema of the forehead ; forty-eight hours after the accident ecchymosis of the pharynx was per- ceived. The portion of the pharynx in which the ecchymosis occurs, can only be seen with some difficulty; it is limited by the base of the skull above and the velum palati below, by the vertebral column behind and the posterior orifice of the nares in front (' Gaz. Heb.,' 1862, p. 125, and 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 603). Dr. B. Beck on fracture of the tabula vitrea ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir., ii, 547). At the battle of Yicenza in 1848, a soldier was struck by a shot over the right parietal bone. He instantly became unconscious and fell, but soon recovering remarked that his left arm was perfectly paralysed. Dr. Beck found that both the soft parts and the periosteum had been stripped from the bone ; he could, however, find no trace whatever of any fracture. He diagnosed a fracture of the internal table, because the paralysis of the left upper extremity could only be explained by pressure so produced. Ice, calomel, &c. On the eleventh day the symptoms of cerebral irritation became more severe ; instruments for trepanning were sent for, but before they arrived, the patient had perished on the fifteenth day after the injury. The post-mortem showed that there was scarcely any diploe, that the inner table presented a crucial fracture, and that there were inflammatory changes in the bone, brain and its membranes. Two minute fissures, which probably did not pass through the whole thickness of the external table, were also found at the place, which had been struck by the ball. In his remarks on this case, Dr. Beck defends the opinion, that the tabula vitrea is more fragile than the outer table; and he points out with justice the great influence, which is exercised by the diploe, in determining the effects of an injury ; for example, if a spent ball strike the skull at a right angle and the diploe be largely developed, it will produce a fracture or indentation of the external table alone ; if, on the other hand, the diploe be almost entirely absent, the tabula vitrea will be splintered more or less extensively. Dr. Murney has tabulated the cases of fracture of the skull to the number of 253, which appeared in the journals during the years from 1851 to i860 inclusive ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' xxxiii, 282). There were 187 fractures involving the calvaria or lateral parts of the head.- in 84 of these the fracture was situated in one of the parietal bones ; in 57 the frontal; in 9 the occipital; and in 37 two bones of the calvaria or lateral regions of the head were implicated, or the precise part of the skull-cap was not specified. The mortality was:—most serious in the last class; out of 37 cases, 22 died; then in fractures of the occiput, 5 deaths ; next in those of the frontal bone, where 25 died and 1 remained under treat- ment ; fractures of the parietal bones were the least fatal, as of 84 cases, 34 died, and 1 remained under treatment. As a summary, we have 86 deaths, 99 recoveries, and two uncertain, in a total of 187 cases, 01-46 per cent, of deaths. Of the 187 cases the bone was depressed in 149, and was elevated by operation in 124: of the latter cases 60 died, 62 recovered, and 2 remained