GENERAL SYS'i EM. 47 immediately. The amount of albumen .varies greatly, not at all in propor- tion to the severity of the disease, it is less copious when the liver is severely implicated. The urea and the chlorides were much diminished. The pjvine evacuations are apt to become light coloured, and this, if it persists, is always of serious import. If, on the contrary, they become natural it is a harbinger of a safe termination. The pale colour Lawson ascribes to suppres- sion of the natural secretion of the colon. The occurrence of black vomit is preceded in many cases by white vomit, consisting of a clear acid fluid, and rejected with severe straining, and extreme precordial oppression. The transition from white to black vomit first manifests itself by the appearance of brown specks in the clear mucus, which increase in number, while the mucus becomes more limpid, and tinged more or less brown. The acidity gradually chminishes. From the glandular epithelium in the tubular glands of the stomach being coloured brown and containing numerous granules, from the disappearance of that colour as black vomit becomes copious, and from the occurrence of similar elements constituting the characteristic portions of the vomit itself, Lawson has no doubt as to its actually originating in the gastric tubes, and being a true secretion, though occurring in the course of disease. Vessels were found among the tubes with entire blood corpuscles in them. The kidneys are always found congested and rather enlarged, with evidences of exudation into their parenchyma and their tubes. The latter, by obstructing the tubes, may become one of the most fatal complications of the disease. The gall- bladder was often distended with bile, and never was quite empty. The bde ducts were sometimes tinged brown internally, sometimes not; the former state coincided with the absence of jaundice during life, the latter with its presence. The smaller branches of the portal vein were imbedded in a layer of connective tissue more or less abundant in different cases, of an opaline appearance, separating the vein from the adjacent lobules, and from the accompanying artery and duct. The smaller vessels, like those of the kidneys, were covered with closely-set nuclei and granules, and surrounded with exudative material, clear or opaline, contained in connective tissue. This condition extended even into the lobules, where the tubes of the cell-containing network were sometimes widely separated by the intervening deposit. In every case where death occurred at the usual period of the disease the hepatic cells were found of a pretty deep brown colour from biliary matter. Sometimes the cells were without oil, sometimes they contained much. Lawson observes that there is an active exudation into the parenchyma of the liver in yellow fever, and the symptom from which it has derived its name depends on the exudation process having embraced the minute bile ducts and closed them against the passage of the bde, of which there are abundant indications in the lobules. The liver may become affected at an earlier or later period, in the former case, the disease is of longer duration and the convalescence much more tedious. The mucous membrane of the stomach was often of a deep brown colour when there had been little black vomit, and vice versd. Small ulcers were occasionally seen in the ileum, caecum, and descending colon, and there was a gradual transition from these in various instances to the characteristic enteric lesion of typhoid fever, which disease was not