121 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. solution of iodine, twelve parts ; pot. iodid., four parts ; pot. bromidi, two parts in alcohol rectif., 125 parts; and water fifteen parts. Local blood- letting is premised. After the application the swelling rapidly subsides, and the diphtheric action in the throat ceases. At the same time he uses an iodine water internally, the Adelheidsquelle of Heilbroun. Hillier, T.—Clinical Lecture on Diphtheria. Med. T. and Gaz., April 26th. Hillier contends that there is no essential difference between croup and diphtheria, and endeavours to invalidate the distinctions which have been laid down as diagnostic of the two affections. He maintains that diphtheria is epidemic croup, or that croup is sporadic diphtheria of the air-passages. Albumen may be present in the urine in croup, just as it is in diphtheria. He has used calomel in small frequently repeated doses in diphtheria, with success, three cases recovering out of four. In the fatal one the disease was so advanced that there was not time to get mercury into the system. Together with the calomel, Hillier gives beef-tea, milk, and eggs freely, and stimulants if they seem to be requisite. Guaiacuin, with pot. chlor. and tr. cinch., he approves of. Caustics (H. CI. he prefers) are to be applied to the surfaces adjacent to the exudation, not to those already affected. Tracheotomy or laryngotomy in adults is not to be omitted if other means fail. Bowles, B. L.—Position in Accident and Disease. Brit. Med. J., June 14th. Bowles believes that stertor depends on the tongue falling back into the pharynx by gravitation during the existence of general paralysis, and preventing the easy access of air to the lungs. He recognises three varieties of stertor,—(1) palatine, when the current of air causes a vibration of the soft palate; (2) pharyngeal, when the air gives rise to a harsh, sharp, husky noise, by passing through the narrowed interval between the base of the tongue and the posterior wall of the pharynx ; (3) nervous, which depends on air bubbling through mucus in the larger air-tubes. The second form is that which indicates the greatest amoimt of danger from impediments to the respirat ion, and this is most common in apoplexy and apoplectic symptoms arising from accident. In such cases the danger is greatly increased by the retardation of the returning venous current, which necessarily results from the imperfect respiration. The cerebral congestion thus occasioned increases the paralysis of the tongue, and the hemorrhage, if it exists, and the patient thus gets gradually worse. A lateral position allowing the tongue to fall away from the back of the pharynx, allows free respiration to go on and diminishes the danger. Other dangers, such as the regurgitation of matters from the stomach into the larynx, are also avoided by the lateral position. Empis, a S.—On Whistling Breathing, « Carnage" Broncho-tracheal. L Union, 1, 3, 5, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 309. This sound is audible at some distance, and is distinct, according to JJJmpis, from sibdant rhonchus and other dry sounds. He believes it to be