392 KEPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. probable that there was at the time of the first abortion a second foetus in the uterus, not expelled at that time. Priestley, Dr., and Mitchell Heney.—Case of Multilocular Ovarian Tumour; Ovariotomy; Death ; Autopsy; Clinical remarks. Med. Times and Graz., Aug. 2nd, 1862. The patient was single, oot. 21. The tumour of a year's duration. She had been tapped a month before. Death took place eighteen hours after the operation. There was no general peritonitis; the cavity of the abdomen contained about fifty ounces of thick, bloody fluid, in which were no clots or pus. The omentum was found torn into shreds, and the ends of its vessels surrounded by small blood-clots. The fatal issue was attributed to the shock of the operation and to the internal haemorrhage. The heart and liver were fatty. During the operation some of the fluid escaped from one of the cysts. Teale, P.—Two cases of Ovarian Dropsy in which Ovariotomy icas performed. Med. Times and Graz., March 29th, 1862. In one case ovariotomy was performed on a woman who had been the subject of ovarian dropsy for two years. There were no adhesions ; the pedicle was retained externally. Tumour unilocular. Recovery. In the second case the disease had lasted about a year. There were ante- rior adhesions of firm character, and slighter ones posteriorly. The recent adhesions were separated by the hand, the old ones by scissors. Pedicle was retained externally. Death took place on the fifth day, from peritonitis. The tumour was mainly composed of one large sac ; at it s base there was a solid mass as large as an orange, which, on being cut into, was found to be made up of a number of sacculi, filled with a gelatinous material, " spurious colloid." Both patients were hospital patients. Both were treated by nutritive enemata and opium. Dewes, Dr.—Multilocular Ovarian Tumour ; Ovariotomy; Removal of a large portion of Omentum ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., June 14th, 1862. The patient, set. 23, was delivered of a child in May, 1861, and in January, 1862, considered herself (falsely) again pregnant three months. By March 15th the abdomen had become so distended that it was necessary to perform paracentesis. A considerable tumour was still left. Mr. John Clay, of Birmingham, considered the case to be one of multilocular ovarian tumour, springing from the right ovary, one sac of which had become rapidly distended, there being several smaller ones, also containing fluid, and one portion of the tumour was of solid con- sistence. The presence of adhesions it was considered impossible to determine. Mr. Clay performed ovariotomy, tapping the cysts before dragging them out of the abdomen. The tumour was universally adherent, the adhesions being very strong at the right side. They were separated by the hand. A large portion of omentum was spread out over the front of the tumour, adherent to it and to the parieres, and in extracting the tumour this was torn, and bled profusely in several places. The omentum was seized between the blades of a sort of clam