463 ORGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS. 750 C, contains all the gluten as well as the glucose of the grain in a soluble state. ORGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS. TVillshire.— Cases of Alcoholic Poisoning. Lancet, March 29th. Case 1.—C. C—, a porter, set. 65, was brought into hospital with the following symptoms:—pallor and coldness of surface, mydriasis, almost imperceptible pulse, suspirious breathing, and coma. After the free use of the pump, injection of strong coffee into the stomach, and ene- mata of castor oil and turpentine, he gradually recovered. He had taken a pint and a half of raw gin and brandy within twenty minutes. He had been habituated for forty years to spirit-drinking. Case 2.—J. S—, set. 26, a cabman, was brought into hospital in a similar condition, with the exception that the face was livid and the breathing stertorous. Consciousness returned in about eight hours under similar treatment. Lamm.—Case of Acute Poisoninq by Chloroform. (Transl. from the 'Hygiea,' Feb., 1862.) Med. Times, p. 478, May iotb. A gentleman, set. 35, who occasionally suffered from wakefulness, and was in the habit of using chloroform as a hypnotic, took, about half-past twelve on the night of October 6th, an undetermined quantity of chloroform, probably amounting to several drachms. At seven next morning he was seen by Dr. Lamm in apparently tranquil sleep (from which, however, he could not be roused), with somewhat hurried and audible respiration. The surface was warm; the pulse full, but slow; the eyelids closed, the piipils highly dilated and insensible to light. The room, which smelt strongly of chloroform, was immediately well aired. A bladder of ice was applied to the head, cold affusions to the spine, and a common enema was administered. At half-past nine the surface had grown paler and less warm, and the pulse was slower and much weaker, on which account it was determined to apply artificial respiration by electricity, the sponge electrodes being held, one at the pit of the stomach, the other "to the neck over the phrenic nerve alternately on the right and left side." Electricity was also applied to the spine, thoracic muscles, and calves of the legs, as an excitant, and the alternate application of warmth and cold was continued. Under this treatment breathing became somewhat deeper and more distinct, and about half-past eleven the pupils began to contract, the skin became ■warmer; the breathing further improved, although very rapid relatively to the pulse. About 9 p.m. the patient began to moan in expiration, elevating the ala? nasi at each inspiration. The eyes began to move, and the pupils became slightly sensitive to light. On the application of ammonia to the nostrils he turned away his head, but in other respects no signs of feeling were observed. Subsequently he perspired profusely, the pulse grew rapid (160), and the head hot, in spite of the constant use of the ice-bag. Still later, he became restless, tossing his head from side to side. Death occurred at 12 p.m., being pre- ceded by progressive acceleration and weakening of the pulse, gurgling in the throat and profuse sweating. The body was examined thirty-eight hours after death ; the most important pathological appearances ob- served were the following:—The muscles of the neck and extremities