245 ANEURISM. M. Ne'laton, ' Clinical Lectures on a case of Arterio-venous Popliteal Aneurism' ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, pp. 137, 141). " The patient, a man, aged twenty-seven, had been wounded, two years before his admission, by a°poignard in the right knee ; a little haemorrhage, easily stopped by flexion of the leg on the thigh, was the immediate result. But, although it did not appear externally, the bleeding still continued internally, so that after some time the leg and foot became very large and tense ; after a few days, this swelling began to diminish from below upwards, whilst the popliteal region, which alone continued of considerable size, became the seat of beatings and of vibrations. Pains, radiating to the foot and along the anterior tibial nerve, occurred during the first two or three months. From that time the tumour remained stationary, but the reappear- ance of the pains induced the patient to enter the hospital. On his admis- sion, he presented the following symptoms :—cicatrix of the wound, an inch and a half above the head of the fibula; the normal hollow in the popliteal space is replaced by a projecting surface formed by a tumour, which is bounded at its sides by the tendons of the biceps, semi-mem- branosus, and semi-tendinosus. The tumour is much the most prominent at the inner side : it is the seat of most violent pulsations, and of vibrations which are felt by the hand most distinctly at the outer side. Such ex- tremely powerful, energetic pulsations only occur in aneurism; there is, indeed, a peculiar expansion in very vascular fibro- plastic tumours or encephaloid cancers of bone, which resembles that of aneurism; it has not, however, the strength of impulse, which is due to arterial tension. The vibration or thrill is transmitted along the vessels, both upwards and downwards; it can also be felt over the soft parts of the leg, and bones. By auscultation there is heard a continuous bruit; at the moment of the cardiac systole, there is, however, a reinforcement, a buzzing, which com- bines with the first sound, and which has been compared with the buzzing of the bee and the purr of the cat. At the outer side where the thrill is most marked, there is a bellows-sound, exactly like that of a secondary false aneurism (circumscribed traumatic aneurism), which, almost before its conclusion, is replaced by the sound of reinforcement. The veins of the leg have become much dilated, and hence varicose ulcers have formed. Compression of the femoral stops all pulsation, and the tumour can then be almost entirely emptied. The patient experiences difficulty in walking, and a numbness of the limb, which augments even to pain. Such a thrill, as occurs in the present case, is quite distinct from the slight fremitus, which may accompany the bellows-sound, in an ordinary aneurism. The continuous bruit with reinforcement (jerking bruit) is found in another disease, in the so-called cirsoid aneurism or arterial varix, especially on the head. In the latter affection the arteries are not only dilated, they are also lengthened and tortuous. How then can the cirsoid be distinguished from the arterio-venous aneurism ? By the thrill. That which indicates a communication between an artery and a vein is always most intense at one point, the point nearest the communication ; in the present case, there is such a spot at the outer side of the popliteal space, over the cicatrix of the wound. On the other hand, in cirsoid aneurism the thrill is equally intense over every part of the dilated vessels ; there is no point, at which the thrill and the bruit present any special