SECKETOKY SYSTEM. 151 \1i:ti'i:.\ueimer.—On Icterus Gravis. Memorab. a .d. Praxis, vii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 303. Mettenheimer relates seven cases, to which he appends the following remarks:—The nervous symptoms of icterus gravis may be divided into two groups; those of one resemble the phenomena of typhus, pyaemia, and other blood diseases, and are characterised by delirium, restlessness, and twitching of the muscles. They are absent in acute yellow atrophy, but are present in cases of mechanical arrest of bile, and in forms of icterus gravis combined with other chronic and acute diseases, as cirrhosis, alco- holism, and acute rheumatism. They end with increasing frecpiency of the pidse and temperature of the body. The other group is peculiar to acute atrophy, especially to the form which runs a rapid stormy course. The delirium in these cases is maniacal, but alternates often abruptly with coma. The pidse also often varies, and is even quiet, and the body cool. Mettenheimer suggests that the cause of the difference in the phenomena may possibly depend on the circumstance whether or not the brain and the nerve centres generally take part in the icteric imbibition or not. Wagner, E.—Granular Induration of the Liver. Arch. d. Heilk. hi, 5, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 59. Wagner determines the induration of cirrhosis to depend on the forma- tion of a fibroid and homogeneous tissue, the latter graduating into the former. He finds the change to commence almost always in the periphery of the lobides, and not in the interlobular tissue. He believes the capil- laries to be especially affected, their nuclei multiplying and their tubes con- tracting and becoming fibres. In twelve cases, the extremes of age were thirty and fifty-six years; all the patients were males, and ten of them habitual brandy-drinkers. The disease was always primary. An icteric tinge was noticed in five cases, and in four of these it was very slight, and attended with a peculiar change in the muscular structure of the heart. The spleen was enlarged in all the cases, in some very much; in one it contained abscesses. Chronic, gastric, and intestinal catarrh was noticed in eight cases ; in the remaining four there were symptoms of this condi- tion during life; in two there were hemorrhagic erosions of the gastric mucous membrane. The kidneys were affected in eleven of the twelve cases, but how, is not particularly stated. More or less considerable traces of chronic inflammation of the dura mater were observed in five of the nine autopsies. Tuberculosis was met with as an accidental complica- tion in some cases. Brinton, W.—Lancet, Dec. 13th. Kecords a case of hydatid cyst of the liver, which was cured by a single tapping, with subsequent bandaging, local application of ice, and ad- ministration of opium. For some days there was considerable prostration and tendency to sickness, which gradually subsided, and in nine weeks the patient was discharged cured. She was eighteen years of age, and the tumour had existed about six years. Brinton does not by any means advise operating indiscriminately. When the cyst is stationary, or Shrinking and hardening, where it is immediately threatening rupture into