128 IM PORT ON PRACTICAL MEIHC1NK. BAMBERGER, H.—On the Chemistry of Sputa. Wurzb. Med. Ztsclir., ii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 3. Bamberger examined the sputa (1) Of chronic bronchial catarrh; (2) Of bronchial dilatation; (3) Of chronic pulmonary tuberculosis; (4) Of acute tuberculous [infiltration ; (5) Of pneumonia. The following are the chief results:—There is much analogy between the analyses of the first four groups, in which the sputa are chiefly catarrhal. The salts of tlitse sputa vary but little, the organic matters considerably. The insoluble salts form only about 4 to 5-5 per cent, of the whole saline con- tents, the chief amount consists of chl. sod. and phosph. potash. Puriform matter contains a greater quantity of organic and inorganic substances; there is considerably more phosphoric acid in the ash, and considerably less chlorine, and also less sulphuric acid. The ash of pneumonic sputa differs from that of catarrhal in several respects. The alkalies, combined with phosphoric acid, which amount to 10 and 14 per cent, of the saline constituents of the catarrhal sputa, are almost entirely absent in the pneu- monia during the inflammatory period, but the sulphuric acid is remarkably increased. The quantity of chlorine (37 per cent.) is nearly the same as the average in the catarrhal (36 per cent.), and there is not much variation in the insoluble salts, except the phosphate of iron, derived from the blood. In the period of resolution, the sputa become more similar to the catarrhal. The phosphoric acid increases, the sulphuric diminishes, and the chlorine reaches a very high amount, while the potash and soda are present in the same mutual proportion as in the catarrhal, whereas during the inflam- matory period this was inverted. In the sputa of bronchiektasis, sulphu- retted hydrogen, acetic, butyric, and probably formic acids, were detected » v. Dusch.—The Causes of the Inspiratory Depression oj the Lower Whs and of the Epigastrium. Verhandl. d. Naturh. Med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, vol. ii, p. 167. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 94. One of these is the failure of the action of the intercostal muscles to oppose sufficiently the action of the diaphragm; a second is abdominal dis- tention keeping the lower part of the thorax abnormally dilated, and the tendinous centre of the diaphragm fixed, so that it cannot descend in inspiration, but the ribs are drawn towards it; a third, the narrowing of the air-passages from any cause, so that the access of air cannot take place freely, and the air in the lungs is consequently attenuated during the act of expansion, and the surrounding pressure increased. In this case the anterior wall of the abdomen as well as the ribs are pressed in, and the anterior and upper part of the thorax becomes more arched. Niemeyer, P.—Summary of Recent Researches Relative to Pneumonia. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 337- This very comprehensive and valuable report contains so much condensed detail, that we can scarcely hope to present any abstract of its contents that will obviate the necessity for consulting the original. The first or general part contains an account of Zicmssen's inquiries into the statistics of pneumonia. In the continental cities of Europe about eight per cent, of all the deaths are caused by pneumonia. Taking the whole population of