20 UEPOltT ON PHYSIOLOGY. artery. Colin thinks that there exists some relation between the sensi- bility and the contractility of the vessels. Sehweigger-Seidel and Teichmann have both satisfied themselves, by means of injections, that the walls of the lymphatic vessels are im- permeable even to the finest pulverised substances, and that there exists no direct passage from the unimpaired blood-vessels into the unbroken lymphatics. BLOOD, LYMPH, AND OHXLE. Schmidt, Alexander.—On Mbrme, and the causes of its Coagulation. Arch. f. Anat. Physiol., &c, pp. 545—587, and pp. 675—721, 1861. Schoffer, A.—On the Carbonic Acid of the Blood, and its elimination bg the Lungs. Zeits. fin- rat. Med., 3rd series, vol. xi, pp. 89—119, 1861. EISS, W.—Experimental Researches on the Lymph current. Vir- chow's Archiv, vol. xxii, p. 526. Schmidt, C.—On the Chemical Composition and Formation of Lymph and Chyle. Melanges physiques et ehim., tires du Bull. del'Acad. de Sfc. JPetersb., iv, pp. 671—691, 1861. The researches of Alex. Schmidt throw a new light upon one of the most important subjects in physiology. It was known that certain circumstances exert a retarding influence on the coagulation of the blood. Brlicke had shown, for instance, that coagulation does not take place readily as long as the blood remains in contact with the walls of the blood-vessels. It was also proved by others that ammonia or car- bonic acid prevents, more or less, the blood from coagulating. But all this touched merely upon the negative side of the question; Schmidt, on the other hand, endeavoured to discover the active agents in the process, and sought for them in the coagulating substances. It occurred to him that all fluids which coagulate spontaneously, such as blood, chyle, lymph, and pus, contain cells, and that it might be the cells which impart the coagulating influence in the process of coagulation; that chyle and lymph, which fluids do not coagulate spontaneously before they have passed through the lymphatic glands (that is, before they have taken up a number of cells), might, nevertheless, even then contain the principle capable of coagulating when brought into relation with cells ; and that it might be simply the addition of these cells during the passage of the fluids through the glands which gives the fluids the property of spontaneous coagulation ; and that if so, then an artificial admixture of cells with pure lymph and chyle would produce the same effect. This Schmidt found to be actually the case, and he moreover made out that the differences observed in fibrinous coagula do not depend on a variety of fibrinous substances, but on the differences of the cells which produce the coagulation. The chyle which had been taken from the thoracic duct of a horse was divided into two portions. To the one was added a small quantity of defibrinated blood. The time was then marked which each portion took to coagulate, and it was found that the portion to which the blood