RE POUT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. •ISO above mentioned were merely the "terminal fact of a gradually developed insanity, commencing with a supposed attack of sunstroke, which had taken place seventeen years before." On the other hand, it was main- tained by the defenders that there was nothing in the character of his last illness to support the theory that he was incapable of executing a valid will in 1856. It was further averred, on the part of the prosecution, that the housekeeper of the deceased had acquired undue influence over him, and that, to injure the relatives, she had obtained the disposition of the property in trust for charitable purposes, and afterwards secured for herself an annuity of £50. The pursuers were the heir-at-law and other relatives, the defenders were the trustees. As regards the main issue, whether or not the testator had capacity to execute such a settlement as he had left behind him, the Lord Justice Clerk directed the jury that it was neither a question of law nor of medical science. " It is a question for you, and you alone. . . . The test of his capacity to execute such a set- tlement may be very reasonably stated with reference to the nature of the settlement itself; but it cannot possibly be stated without reference to the settlement, because a man may have power of intellect sufficient to make one kind of mental exertion and be incapable of making another. If a person is capable of distinctly understanding what it is that he is doing, of expressing that purpose in intelligible language, and of under- standing the consequences and effects of what he does, then he is capable of making such a settlement, and it is vain to go about scientific defini- tions." At the conclusion of the charge the counsel for the defendant asked his lordship further to direct the jury that if they were satisfied that the testator was of unsound mind, that^would be sufficient, without proof that the deed was attributable to any insane delusions existing in his mind at the time. In this direction his lordship objected only to the term " unsound mind," as being vague, and added—" If the testator, at the time of making that deed, was mentally incapable of making it, then you will find for the pursuer, although there may be no insane delu- sion directly leading him to the making of the deed." " Thus," remarks Dr. Gairdner, "the capacity to make a will is, as a matter of fact, iiDt to be invalidated by remote presumptions of insanity derived from col- lateral evidence of eccentricity of conduct, or even of physical disease of the brain, provided there exist ample proof of sufficient intelligence to conduct affairs rationally, and make a spontaneous and consistent dis- position of property." Responsibility of Criminal Lunatics. Bonnet. — On Transitory Homicidal Mania. Ann. Med. Psychol., vol. viii. p. 188. This term is employed by the author to signify that supposed form of insanity which may exist without apparent disorder of intelligence, and manifests itself only in the criminal acts committed. In the first part of the paper he investigates the conditions under which homicide is com- mitted by insane persons, and concludes that it is never perpetrated excepting during a paroxysm of blind fury, marked by the suspension of the will and the absence of all reflection, motive, or intention. The second part is devoted to the main question—the determination of the