253 TRANSFUSION OP BLOOD. TRANSFUSION OF BLOOD. Professor Nussbaum, after some interesting historical remarks, states that this operation has been abandoned, not so much owing to want of success, as on account of the difficulties and dangers connected with its performance. The latter are, however, now much less to be feared than they were for- merly ; the operation has been rendered easier by more simple apparatus, and the physiological fact, for which we are indebted to Bischoff, that deh'brinised blood has the same restorative action as that containing fibrine, renders it far less dangerous. Professor Nussbaum has invented a peculiar syringe, which he used with excellent effect in the following case. A young man, set. 19, had extensive disease of the knee-joint; as the leg and foot were quite healthy, resection was performed, but with the worst effect. A few days later he was so much exhausted that death appeared imminent: the radial pulse could no longer be felt, and the extremities were quite cold. Under these circumstances, amputation was not admissible, and transfusion appeared the only means of saving life. Professor Nussbaum used for this operation a strong glass syringe, witli a silver nozzle, and furnished with a piston formed of champagne cork and kid-leather; an elastic canula was attached to it, which much facilitated the operation; the glass allowed any bubbles of air to be seen, and no oil was required. About a pound of blood was obtained by venesection; it was at once beaten up, and this part of the process lasted about eight minutes ; it was then filtered through fine linen, and put into a glass in a basin of hot water, until it was of the heat of 32° A bandage, as for bleeding, was then applied to the left arm of the patient, the cephalic vein was laid bare by an incision two centimetres (eight tenths of an inch) long, and embraced by a strong double silk ligature. With one of the two threads, the peripheral end of the vein was tied, but not tightly, whilst by the other, the central end of the vessel was raised, so that it formed an angle at this part, and a small quantity of blood was confined in its canal. A trans- verse semilunar incision in the vein was then made by means of forceps and scissors, and the elastic canula attached to the syringe was intro- duced; the greatest care was used to prevent the passage of air. The canula and vein were then firmly tied together by the upper ligature, the bandage was removed, and the blood slowJy injected. The syringe held only two ouuces, and it was therefore necessary to remove it from the canula several times and cautiously refill it; the latter remained upright in the vein during the whole operation, and constantly contained blood, which did not enter the vein, except when forced by the syringe. To be quite certain that the canula was perfectly full, he poured into it to reple- tion distilled water, each time before he connected it with the syringe. After the whole of the blood had been injected, he removed, first, the peripheral, and then the central ligature and canula. The wound in the integument was then closed by three sutures, and an ordinary bandage, as after venesection, put on. In this way, not only the entrance of air, but also of coagula of fibrine into the vein, are prevented, and the vessel itself so little injured that inflsimmation could scarcely be feared. During the operation, the patient perceived a sensation of pleasant warmth ; and after some time the pulse could again be felt, and the extremities regained their