BURNS. 205 loss of heat by the body which is brought about by the removal of the epidermis, whose office, as a bad conductor, is to regulate the radiation of heat from the body in health ; this measure is readily effected by bringing the surrounding medium to a warmth corresponding to that of the body. It had especially to be determined how long a sick or healthy individual could be kept in the warm bath without injury, and what would be the influence of this treatment on the general organism. The bath he employs is six feet in length, three feet in breadth, and can contain about two hundred gallons of water. An iron framework accurately fits its interior, and supports girths similar to those of an ordinary bed, on which a woollen coverlet is stretched, and covered again by a linen sheet. About two feet from one end of the frame a support for the back is attached, which moves on a hinge, and which, by means of a simple piece of rack work, can be fixed, like a music-desk, at any angle that is most comfortable to the patient; this support has a woollen covering and also a horsehair bolster. The whole bed hangs suspended in the bath by bands fixed to two small rollers placed at the head and foot, so that it can be raised or lowered at pleasure. At the head of the bath, and stand- ing higher than it, is a copper boiler, by means of which the temperature can be kept at any degree desired. The supply pipe enters the bath at the bottom the escape pipe leaves it at the water level; when the bath is in use, the stream is constantly running, and all impurities are thus rapidly washed from the surface. On May 27th a washerwoman, set. 38, was admitted into the hospital, extensively burnt, from her clothes having caught fire on May 19th. On the calves of both legs there were wounds eight inches long by five broad; on the sides of the legs, on the buttocks and back, were others. Most of the sores were still covered with firmly adherent sloughs. The knees were bent, the thighs drawn up ; she could neither stand, sit, nor lie down straight; she was crying from the intense pain, and screamed whenever her wounds were touched. The pulse was 120. On the 28th she was weighed (no lbs. avoird.) and placed in the bath, which, according to her wish, was kept at 3o°R. (— 99-5 Fahr.). An hour later she could stretch her legs, and the pain had disappeared. She continued well up to the 1st of June, when she had an attack of epilepsy, a disease to which she had long been subject; these attacks recurred occasionally, and were treated with atropine. The most striking phenomena took place in the first forty- eight hours after immersion; the pulse fell from 120 to 80, the thirst became less, the appetite greater. The sloughs were thrown off, and the wounds commenced cicatrizing from the margins. She remained con- stantly in the water, without the least injury to her health, till the 18th of June (504 hours); the temperature had, however, been gradually lowered to 2 50 R. (88-25° Fahr.) At that period only the centre of the wound, of about the size of a half-crown, remained uncicatrized ; it soon healed.* * Many years since, we convinced ourselves by a series of comparative experiments, that there was no treatment for the collapse which generally accompanies severe hums so efficacious as the warm bath. In our cases the pain at once disappeared, and some- times did not return, the pulse improved, and the countenance lost its anxious and sunken cast ; the hath was, however, never continued for more than an hour. We have