RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 139 experimented with tliis substance in eighteen cases (phthisis, bronchitis, and emphysema) with precisely the same results. V. he. citat. Kebbell, W.—On the Climate of Brighton in Pulmonary Consumption. Lancet, April 26th. Kebbell remarks, that the common opinion that Brighton is unsuitable as a residence for phthisical invalids, has probably arisen from two supposi- tions, both of which he believes and endeavours to show are quite erroneous. One is, that Brighton air, as a rule, is keen and changeable ; the other, that the origin of phthisis is due to some climatic influence, and that a keen and changeable climate is that of all others which mainly contributes to the production of this disease. In opposition to the latter notion he quotes from Dr. Greenhow's researches, to the effect that phthisis increases in both sexes, caiteris paribus, in proportion to the degree in which the population are devoted to indoor occupations. All situations in Brighton are not alike, some, are more suitable for patients at one stage of the disease, and some for those hi another. Cases in which there is much general relaxa- tion and debility are likely to find Brighton suitable, while those who suffer from dry cough, and nervous irritability, with a tendency to inflammatory attacks, will derive more benefit from Torquay or Penzance. The subjects of laryngeal phthisis, and those who suffer from dry, irritating cough generally, are injuriously affected by sea air, and are more comfortable in a mild and somewhat damp climate. Cotton, E. P.—The Action of Pot. Chlor. in Phthisis. Med. T. and Gaz., May 17th. Cotton, after a trial of the drug in twenty-five cases, concludes (1) that it has no specific action upon consumption. (2) That its usefulness, even as an auxiliary in the general treatment of phthisis, is very questionable, and is probably limited to that cachectic class of cases in which it and allied remedies are so often serviceable. Roger.—On the Value of Jerking Respiration as a Sign of the Commence- ment of Pulmonary Tubercle. Bullet, de la Soc. Med. des Hopit. Lond. Med. Rev., June, 1862. In cases where it exists (and the number is very limited) it may be regarded as a sign of pulmonary phthisis, but it does not show itself more frequently in very early than in the more advanced stage, and thus it must not be considered to indicate the commencement of the malady. The symptomatic value of jerking respiration. is but moderate in adults, and almost nil in children. BitFHMER, H.—Deutsch. Klinik., Feb. 15th, 22nd, March 8th. Records four cases of phthisis greatly benefited by residence at Gorbers- dort. DieudonnjS, A.—Brit. Med. J., Aug. 30th. Records a case of phthisis in which great improvement was effected bv the inhalation of pulverized tar-water. He finds also sulphurous water of great advantage in the apncea and cough which accompany emphysema