UKl'OllT <),\ PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 80 tions, or as a permanent, from some exudation at the site of the nervous centre which presides over speech. This lie locates at the 11j>per pari ofthe medulla oblongata, near the origin of the vagi, which are often involved to some extent at some period of the affection. Eiuenbuodt.—On the Diagnosis of Partial Paralysis of Sensibility, especially of the Sense of Touch, or that of Pressure (Apselaphesis). Virchow's Archiv., vol. xxiii, p. 571. Eigenbrodt maintains that it is no uncommon thing to find the sense of touch mure or less completely lost, while that of temperature or of pain remains unimpaired. Or one of the latter may he defective. Eigenbrodt's observations were made on patients affected with chronic disease of the spinal cord. In one tactile sensibility was only perfect on the head. Eor testing the sense of temperature, he used glasses filled with water, in which the part was dipped. For testing the tactile sense he employed compasses and different weights; one patient was unable to distinguish whether two pounds were laid on the little finger or nothing at all; another had no perception of five pounds, while yet his muscular sense was so intact that he easdy distinguished between a weight of thirty-two and one of thirty pounds, both poising them in the air. This case therefore shows that the muscular sense, that of pain and that of temperature, may still exist although the sense of touch is quite lost. Eigenbrodt believes that observations of this kind will materially aid in the diagnosis of spinal and cerebral diseases. Adams, Leith A., M.B. Lancet, July 12th. Records a case of encysted abscess in both hemispheres of the brain. The symptoms commenced three and a-half months before death, and consisted of nausea and oppression of the chest, pains in the epigastrium, dulness, and taciturnity, followed by unconscious evacuations at night, and pain in the head. Ehkmann.—On the Effects produced in the Enccphalon by the Obliteration of its Arteries. (Pamphlet.) J. of Mental Sc., July 1862. Hemiplegia of the side opposite to that on which the ligature is placed, with or without convulsions, is the most common residt of tying the carotid artery. The hemiplegia and convulsions appear sooner or later after the operation, and after continuing for a time may entirely disappear. Where death has followed the operation, softening of the brain hi the portion more immediately supplied by the artery, and either of the inflammatory or the anajmic (white) kind lias been usually found. At times the operation has been attended by temporary or even by permanent blindness, and more rarely by loss of power of speech. This last result may depend on the recurrent laryngeal nerve having been included within the ligature. Of forty-nine cases of ligature of one carotid, cerebral disturbance is noted in thirty, and death in eighteen. Among a larger number of cases the accidental and untoward consequences of the operation were equal to twenty-one per cent.