79 NERVOUS SYSTEM. Meyer, L.—On Constitutional Syphilis of the Brain. Allg. Ztschr. f. Psych, xviii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 312. Meyer relates eight cases of intra-cranial disease, in -which there were found either fibrinous (gummatous) tumours in the brain, or the results of internal periostitis or inflammation of the membranes, besides more or less marked indications of syphilis in the liver, inguinal glands, or other parts. The symptoms of course were very various, and admit of no general description. Schott, E.—On Abscesses of the Brain. Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., ii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 29. Schott examines forty recorded cases. He finds otitis, pysemia, and injuries to be the most frequent causes. The males were thirty-one, the females nine. In cases of otitis, the abscess formed mostly in an imper- ceptible manner; in cases of injury there were transitory symptoms. The first sign, after the latent period, was pain in the head; encephalitis was only present in acute cases. Consciousness was not lost till near the end, but a change of disposition was early perceptible. Paralysis was but seldom an early symptom; it occurred in various parts at a later date, in eighteen of the whole number. Convulsions occurred in twenty-one, were usually partial, and preceded the paralysis. Pain in the head was constant, and usually on the same side as the abscess, but did not indicate its seat. There was nothing characteristic in the state of the pupils. Vomiting occurred only eight times, and then at the commencement. The pulse was sometimes very slow. Mesnet.—On Circular Movements as Indications of Brain Disease. Arch. Gen. de Med. Lond. Med. Rev., June. Mesnet states that this phenomenon is connected with the existence of chronic tumours of the brain, and that it may consequently serve to eluci- date the diagnosis of these affections, which is often obscure. The move- ment occurs most frequently on the same side as the lesion, the seat of which seems most frequently to be the superior parts of the brain, the anterior lobes, the lateral ventricles, or the posterior lobes. It is very similar to the staggers in sheep, except that it has never been known to be occasioned in man by ccenuri. Debout.—On Cubebs in Vertigo and Amnesia. Ann. de Therap 1862 p. 52. Debout recommends from eight to thirty grains of freshly-powdered cubebs to be taken at the beginning of the principal meals, where the digestion is weak. When vertigo exists the remedy must be taken morning and evening, and at least two and a-half drachms in the clay. Lichtenstein, E.—On Laloplegia, or Glossopleqia. Deutsche Klinik March 1st, 1862. ' Lichtenstein records three cases in which this symptom was the most prominent, two of them recovering before long completely, and one dying He believes that it may occur as a temporary affection from mental emo-