272 REPORT ON SURGERY. An incision, full three inches long, was carried from the temporal fossa close to the outer margin of the spheno-frontal process vertically over the malar bone to the cheek, the temporal fascia was divided, and the malar bone was sawn through near its junction with the zygomatic process of the temporal. A second section with the saw commenced close to the outer edge of the spheno-frontal process and passed obliquely forwards and downwards through the malar bone, from which a piece, an inch in length, was thus separated. As soon now as the muscles had been divided longitudinally and drawn aside, the tumour came into view, passing downwards between the coronoid process of the lower jaw and the outer surface of the upper jaw. The tumour was quite the size of a goose's egg; its pedicle was as thick as a finger and passed in the direction of the pterygopalatine fossa, where it was attached to the anterior surface of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone; it was scraped off the bone at this point, aud then the removal of the tumour offered no further difficulty. There had been very considerable bleeding from a part of the tumour which had been wounded early on in the operation : this bleeding stopped, as soon as the pedicle was separated from the bone. This deep wound filled up slowly, so that cicatrization was not complete before the beginning of August. There was no sign of any recurrence at the time of the patient's discharge. Another case of tumour of the same fossa has been reported by Langenbeck, for which he performed an osteoplastic resection of the upper jaw (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1861, p. 281, and Schmidt's ' Jahrb.,' cxiii, 198). A boy of fifteen, was admitted on the 26th June, 1861. For nearly two years, the left nostril had been filled up ; during the last seven weeks the cheek and eye have become more prominent: the vision with this eye is still perfectly good. The finger introduced through the mouth feels a firm, elastic, lobulated tumour filling the posterior nares on the left side. The teeth on the left side are healthy. On the face a tumour is found to be pressing out from between the masseter aud maxilla. The zygoma on the left side appears somewhat more prominent, and the tem- poral fossa more full. The whole of the leftside of the face appears to be thrown forwards. Diagnosis;—a fibroid of the pterygo-palatine fossa, which has passed through the spheno-palatine foramen to the posterior nares, into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and finally forwards between the jaw and masseter. On the istof July, the operation was performed under chloroform. A semilunar incision with its convexity downwards was carried from the ala nasi to the malar, and then on to the middle of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. A second incision proceeded from the nasal process of the frontal along the lower margin of the orbit to the middle of the zygoma, where it united with the one first formed. Without sepa- rating the skin, Langenbeck at once penetrated by the lower incision to the jaw, cut through the periosteum, and divided the masseter from its attachment to the zygoma. A lobulated, white tumour came into view, as soon as the fascia buccalis was cut through. It was now found, that by pressing the tumour on one side, the finger could be pressed through the spheno-palatine foramen into the nostril: a horizontal section of the jaw was made with a delicate straight saw introduced in the same way. The saw was then employed to divide the zygoma, the frontal process of