71 NERVOUS SYSTEM. Eamskill, J. S., M.D.—Clinical Lectures on Epilepsy. Med. T. and Gaz.,'July 19th, Aug. 30th, Nov. 22nd. Rauislrill considers that all epileptic cases approximate more or less perfectly to four different varieties. (1) Where loss of consciousness only apparently constitutes the fit. (2) Where, with loss of consciousness there is some local tonic spasmodic movement. (3) Where, m addition to loss of consciousness, there are general tonic, and afterwards chronic con- vulsions. (4) Where, without any loss of consciousness, there are general or partial convulsions. The first two constitute the petit mal, and the first of these is rarely met with. After reviewing the various theories of epilepsy, Ramskill details that of Brown-Sequard, which he adopts. This physiologist believes that epileptic fits are always the result of an excita- tion of the cerebro-spinal axis, and has proved, by experiments on animals, that no part of the encephalon is necessary for the production of epilepti- form convulsions except the medulla and pons Varolii. He considers that the reflex faculty of the cerebro-spinal axis is composed of two elementary vital properties, one of which he calls reflex excitability ; the other, reflex force. This reflex excitability is increased in epilepsy to a greater or less degree, while the reflex force may be diminished. Besides these there is often a special kind of excitation acting on the nervous centres. The loss of consciousness depends on contraction of the cerebral arteries in the earlier part of the attack, and subsequently on the circulation of black blood in the cerebral vessels, which is unfit to maintain the nutrition of the nervous centres. In all true cases of epilepsy there is some warning or aura of the fit; it may be very slight and imperceptible to the patient, and as improvement takes place it becomes more developed and decisive. It is of great importance to detect the aura, and, when this is chfficult, it is worth while to apply a ligature to each limb successively shortly before the usual time of recurrence, or to galvanise different parts of the body with a strong current and dry conductors. If the aura can be localised, the s ui face may be blistered, and chloroform liniment applied to the denuded surface. Or a ligature may be applied, and if the aura consist of crampy sensation, forcible extension of the part may be practised. If these means alone fail, they should be tried again in conjunction with a circular blister. If the disease is still refractory, the actual cautery to the part should be tried, or the moxa : or the nerves going to the part should be divided; or, if there be an old cicatrix, this should be excised. Several illustrative cases are given, and examples of aura. Cases in which some morbid internal sensation takes the place of aura are more common than those where there is an external. The heart, stomach, oesophagus, or colon, may appear to l»e the seat of these sensations initiating a paroxysm. The object of treatment should be to diminish the morbid excitability of the nervous centres, and to remove any peripheral cause of irritation. Ramskill's own observations go very much to confirm those of S. V. de Kolk as to the morbid changes taking place b epilepsy. The vessels of the medulla oblongata are found much distended, and the surrounding tissue more or less indurated or softened, the result of intense congestion during the fits, and of faulty nutrition in the intervals. After relating a case successfully treated by belladonna, lie gives his view as to the rationale of its action.