339 UNUSUAL LOCALITY OF PREGNANCY. The author has tabulated the results of ,500 recent cases, as to the manner in which the head entered the pelvis. First position of Naegele in 61 per cent., second in 1 per cent., third in 6-40 per cent. Primary- third changed to second in 25-20 per cent. Total third position, 31-60. Fourth position, 1 per cent. Primary fourth changed to first, 5-40 per cent. Total fourth position, 6-40 per cent, of the cases. UNUSUAL LOCALITY OP PREGNANCY. Scott, Dr. Walter. — Case of Extra-uterine Faetation. Lancet, Aug. 2, 1862. A poor woman, set. 42, who had had ten children, last child born three years before, had experienced irregularity in menstruation, and had for two months " seen nothing." She complained of abdominal pain and constipation only. Four days after she became unwell, as vras sup- posed, and lost much blood. After rest in bed a few days this abated. A few days later she became suddenly collapsed, pulse imperceptible, throwing arms about, and died in half an hour after being seen. The abdomen contained much clotted blood, proceeding from two or three ruptured veins. These veins were in a plexus of vessels covering the Fallopian tube on the right side, at which situation it was enlarged to the size of an egg, and contained an amnionic sac and a perfectly formed foetus one and a half to two inches long. The uterus was nearly four times its natural size, and was lined by a finely villous membrane (decidua ?). Tufnell. — Extra-uterine Fcetation; Twin Conception from the same Ovary ; normal descent of one Foetus into the Wonib ; arrest of the other in the Fallopian Tube; escape from thence by Ulceration into the Cavity of the Abdomen, followed by Haemorrhage and Death in twenty-four hours. Dub. Quart. Journ., May, 1862, p. 462. The patient had seven years before given birth to a living child. Again pregnant, at between three and four months she was seized with severe and sudden pain in the lower part of the abdomen while getting into bed. She had walked during the day upwards of four miles. When seen, soon after, she had a weak pulse, a pale, anxious, and pinched countenance. There was great pain in the umbilical and right iliac regions. She died twenty-four hours after. Three or four quarts of fluid and clotted blood were found in the abdomen, with a small foetus floating therein. There was a rent in the right Fallopian tube, and a cyst from which the foetus had escaped. Eight Fallopian tube and ovary agglutinated. Foetus one inch long. The uterus con- tained a healthy male foetus, proportionate to the date of conception. The cystic cavity in the right Fallopian tube contained a solid, organized mass, like a miniature placenta. There were two distinct corpora lutea in the right ovary. Brandt, Dr.—Extra-uterine Pregnancy. Ed. Med. Joum., Sept., 1862. The subject of this unusual case was born in 1778, married in 1795. Confined of her first child in 1796 ; five years after, she had a second child. Three years after (1804), she was a third time pregnant, but was