ANIMAL POISONS. 467 passes off entirely in two or three hours. The author found that the increase of the dose produced no increase either of the intensity or duration of the effect. ANIMAL POISONS. Beau grand.—Poisoning ly Putrescent Alimentary Substances. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvii, p. 4$$. A hare and a rabbit, killed on Sunday, were cooked on the following "Wednesday in a pie; lard, which had been used without pernicious effect previously, was employed in its preparation. On the following Sunday, at noon, the pie was eaten by several servants; in the middle of the following night, i. e. fifteen hours after the meal, all of them -were attacked with colic, nausea, anxiety, prostration, and profuse diarrhoea, the severity of the symptoms varying with the quantity which had been taken. They all recovered. In another case alarming symptoms are recorded as having followed the consumption of a kid caught in a snare, in which it had struggled with violence and died in an agony of terror. Of a family who partook of this animal all were affected with dryness of the fauces, epigastric pain, retch- ing, vertigo, and prostration, some of which symptoms lasted for six weeks. The father, who had eaten the largest quantity, exhibited the symptoms of typhoid fever, which terminated in suppuration and gan- grene, and was accompanied by severe nervous symptoms, characterised by trismus and opisthotonos ; notwithstanding, he eventually recovered. His wife, who suffered less severely at first, became subsequently affected with carbuncle, and died by gradual exhaustion. The author points out the analogy between the poisonous effects which appear to result, as in the last case, from conditions affecting the mode of death of the animal, with those which arise from subsequent putrefactive change in the meat, and discusses, in relation to these effects, the theories according to which they are attributed either to the existence of fatty acids or other chemical compounds, or to the develop- ment of certain forms of filamentous fungi. Btjckenham'.—Extraordinary cases of Poisoning. Lancet, Sept. 13th. A family of ten persons, after partaking of a rabbit-pie, were affected with purging and abdominal pain during the night. These symptoms were relieved by astringent medicines, but on the third day some of the patients again partook of the same pie, after which much more aggravated symptoms of poisoning presented themselves. In the most severe case the patient was apparently insensible and pulseless, and the surface cold and clammy. Under a treatment consisting mainly of stimulants and opiates they gradually recovered. It was ascertained that the constituents of the pie were in a wholesome state when cooked but that it had been " kept two or three days in very hot weather." ' Mackat.—Cases of Poisoning ly Goafs Milk. Ed. Med Journ No. 81, p. 825. On the 27th of November ten or eleven officers of Her Majesty's Ship Marlborough, at Malta, were suddenly seized after breakfast with