KEl'ORT ON l'KAfTICAl, M I'.DK 1NI'.. Ill or with constant relations causes a marked difference between different orders of mind, e. g., between wits, poets, and men of imagination on the one hand, and thinkers and savans on the other. He then alludes to the false judgments of insane persons caused by a vicious association of ideas, and which almost always result in a tendency to substitute a constant for an accidental association. In the general delirium of acute mania, the faculty of associating ideas participates in the general excitement, but being disordered, and the ideas being in the hurry but partially uttered, incoherence is tbe result. In partial delirium the disorder of association is more easily traced, and the author gives numerous illustrative instances. Tiieile, Fit. W.—On Microcephalia. Henle u. Pfeuf. Ztsehr., 3rd Ser., xi, 1861. Schmidt's Jabrb., vol. 113, p. 157. Theile, after giving a minute description of the peculiarities of a case which he examined, subjoins the following more general conclusions rela- tive to this malformation, at which he has arrived from this and other recorded cases. Healthy parents may produce one or several microcephali. These bemgs sometimes are of ordinary, sometimes of small size. They gene- rally die early. The brain and the face are imperfectly formed, as well as tbe skull. The jaws project, the eyes are approximated to each other, as in apes, the roof of the orbit is contracted. The sutures are often, but not invariably, prematurely ossified. The subjects are always idiotic. Snell.—Erroneous Identification as a Symptom of Insanity Ztsehr. f. Psychiatrie, vol. xvii, p. 545. J. of Mental Sc., July, 1862. Snell concludes (1) that mistaken personal identification, and also illusory conceptions of places and objects, are among tbe most frequent phenomena of mental disorder, and the most certain and readily observed of its symptoms. (2) They indicate by their intensity and generality the degree of mental excitement, and are in general favourable in reference to pro- gnosis. (3) They are more prevalent the more recent the mental disorder is. (4) In the transition of the so-called primary forms of insanity into the secondary, mistaken identification not uncommonly makes its appear- ance, and is then of bad augury. (5) In the progress of primary mental disorder towards recovery the disappearance of this form of aberration is one of the most certain indications of approaching convalescence. Yellowlees, D., M.D.—Homicidal Mania: a Biography; tvith Physiolo- cal and Medico-legal Comments. Edin. Med. J., Aug. 1862. The patient in question had orignially been a carpenter, but by great efforts had become a small publisher and bookseller. In consequence of his persuasion that he had suffered various wrongs and injuries for which justice was denied him, he was continually planning revenge and making attempts to take the life of some one of his attendants. He lapsed finally into dementia and died, ajt. 73, with bronchitis and asthma. The brain was found atrophied, the cerebrum weighing but thirty-five ounces and a-balf, and tbe cerebellum five ounces and a-balf. There were three very distinct patches of softening, containing greyish-white semifluid matter. All the arteries of tbe brain were more or less atheromatous. On comparing the cast of tbe