ABDOMEN. 309 the same month. The size of the swelling in the anterior abdominal wall, the rapidity with which the tumour increased and again decreased, were clearly owing to the phlegmon being located in the loose and ex- tensible subperitoneal cellular tissue: these symptoms contrast forcibly with those presented by the previous case, in which the phlegmon was beneath the iliac fossa. M. Bauchet, report on abscess of the iliac fossa ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1862, 35, 67) : some clinical remarks by M. Trousseau, from which it would appear that the symptoms of psoas abscess are dependent on the crural nerve, and not on the psoas-iliacus muscle (ib., 81) : a case of subperi- toneal phlegmon, complicating diabetes, under M. Lasegue ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 405) : a case of abscess containing fetid gas, under Mr. Hutchinson ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, ii, 296). Fibrous tumour of the iliac fossa.—M. Nelaton has given a lecture on this affection, of which he has met with fifteen or twenty instances in the course of his practice ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 77). This tumour re- sembles in structure the fibrous tumour of the uterus. It occurs usually in young women, who have borne children, but has never been seen in man,—its origin probably depending on the genital peculiarities of the female sex, possibly on the congestion which so often occurs at the menstrual periods, and during pregnancy. It occupies one or other of the iliac fossse, close above Poupart's ligament, and is constantly attached by a fibrous band to the ilium, near the anterior superior spinous process. It is single, hard, and elastic; its growth is very slow, taking from four to ten years to arrive at the size of two fists; the largest size seen by M. Nelaton was that of the head of a newly-born infant; the pain is of a lancinating character, extends to adjacent parts, especially the thigh and leg, is worse in summer than in winter, and occurs more frequently in the night than in the day. It may be pushed somewhat upwards, but not down- wards ; it can be forced a little backwards but not inwards, owing to its iliac attachment—this latter mark being characteristic. It is developed in the cellular tissue between the iliac fascia and the peritoneum. The skin over it is natural in colour and consistence. It may be confounded with enchondroma or with a collection of faeces : but the former is very hard and irregular, while the fibrous tumour is smooth, and unaccompanied by any intestinal symptoms. It might perhaps be mistaken for a glandular swelling, for a fibrous tumour cf the uterus projecting into the iliac fossa, or for a tertiary syphilitic tumour, which presents a certain resemblance, although situated in the abdominal wall. But the integument generally adheres a little to a syphilitic tumour, and is slightly changed in colour; the subcutaneous tissue is found, on pressure lor about a minute, to be a little cedematous,—a sign of the first importance. Nothing of the kind is observed in the fibrous tumour of the iliac fossa. Glandular swellings have not the firmness characteristic of fibrous tumours ; they are somewhat resistent to the touch, occasionally they- present obscure fluctuation. A much more important diagnostic sign is, that they are scarcely ever solitary, while the fibrous tumour of the iliac fossa is always so. Moreover, glandular swellings are situated about the fold of the groin, rarely deep in the iliac fossa; and they are moveable in every direction. Fibrous tumours of the uterus may be dis-