llKPOItT ON' PIIACTTCAL MEDICINE. Bennett, J. IT.—On the 'Treatment of Pneumonia, with the Result* of 105 carefully-recorded Cases. Brit. Med. J., Aug. 23rd. Bennett defines an inflammation as a disorder essentially composed of an exudation from the blood. He contends that antiphlogistic treatment is improper, because it cannot remove exudation and it induces debility, whicli interferes with the necessary cell-transformation. He holds that the strong pulse, fever, and increased How of blood to the inflamed part are the results and not the causes of inflammation, and are of a reparative character, so that they should not be interfered with. In accordance with these views, the object of treatment should be to bring the disease to a favourable conclusion by supporting rather than diminishing the vital strength of the economy, and this not by overstimulating but by promoting the return of the nutritive processes to a healthy condition. Of 105 cases treated during the last fourteen years by Bennett in the Edinburgh infirmary, there were 58 single uncomplicated, whose duration averaged 13-5 days; double, 19 of 20 days' duration; complicated, 17 of 15-8 days' duration, of imcertain duration eight, and deaths three, all of which were complicated cases. The average age of all the cases was 31 § years. Some, especially the cases of double pneumonia, were very severe, with great dyspnoea and urgenl symptoms. He concludes that in jraeumonia and ail inflammations the danger is in direct ratio to the weakness of the system and the existence of complications. Simple pneumonia under non-debilitating treatment invariably recovers. Chambers, T. K.—Clinical Lectures on the Treatment of Pneumonia and Pleurisy. Lancet, Aug. 16th, Sept. 12th. Chambers recommends in pneumonia blood-letting, general or local, jacket poultices, and food every two hours,'with or without wine. He thinks that blood-letting may be practised without regard to the stage of the disease. The amount of dyspnoea and the degree of vigour of the heart's action are the chief points to be regarded. To the poultice he attributes more virtue in saving the lives of pneumonic patients than to any other remedy. " The action of warmth and moisture on animal tissues tends directly to increase their vitality." In pleurisy, besides the local depletion and poultices, he used pot. nitr. with tr. ferri. mur. and pills 0 digitalis, scpiill and pil. hydr. bis die. Report of the Vienna Infirmary for the Year 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb. vol. 116, p. 116. The whole number of patients treated in the year is 7216 (3960 males, and 3256 females). At the close of the year 679 remained under treat ment. The total mortality was 1054 (574 males, 480 females), or 14- per cent. The principal diseases were typhus, catarrhal affections of th alimentary canal, and tuberculosis. Pneumonia was not nearly so prevalent in 1859 as in 1858, hut was more fatal. In 1859 there were 159 cases admitted, with a mortality of 27 per cent; in 1858 the number was 299, with a mortality of 24 per cent. The total number of pneumonia cases was 171 (11 o males, 61 females), the deaths were 43 (26 males, 17 females «. The reporters state particularly that they by no means repudiate blood-