77 NEUYOUS SYSTEM. of the arachnoid, and the two layers were united ha many places by soft and recent adhesions. There was much subarachnoid effusion, but the substance of the brain appeared perfectly healthy, with the exception of a reddish tawny spot in the substance of the pons Varolii, having somewhat the appearance of inflammatory softening. The ventricles contained fluid similar to that in the arachnoid cavity. At the origins of the seventh, eighth, and ninth pairs of nerves, the membranes were highly vascular, thickened, softened, and matted together, but the nerves and the medulla seemed to be perfectly normal. There was nothing unusual in the symptoms except it be that the patient (set. 37, a male) during the paroxysms littered sounds exactly similar to the bark of a dog. Clark.—Amer. Med. T., June 7th. Gives a short account of a fatal case of hydrophobia. The wound had been inflicted three weeks before the appearance of the symptoms, and had healed rapidly and perfectly. Morphia was given internally with enemata of assafcetida. Porter, H., M.D.—Brit. Med. J., July 19th. Eecords a case which he regards as one of hydrophobia, the patient dying in asthenia after having shown some very suspicious symptoms. He had been bitten four days previously by a dog, which, however, has shown no sign of rabies. Albers.—On Parenchymatous Infarction of the Brain. Virchow's Archiv., vol. xxiii, p. 7. Lond. Med. Gaz., Feb. The brain is larger, firmer, harder, and more elastic than usual; the ventricles are small and without fluid. The nervous structure is not much altered, but it is infiltrated by more or less granulous and semi- transparent matter. The capillaries are of very unequal size, some being much dilated. The specific gravity of the tissue is notably increased. These changes are observed for the most part in cases of typhus, chronic epilepsy, chronic insanity, and acute delh-ium. They are, hi all probability, not causes, but effects of the disease. Charcot and Vulpian.—Case of Intra-Meningeal Apoplexy, with False Mc.mhranes on the Dura Mater. Gaz. hebd. vii, 45, 49, 51, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 23. After relating an instance, the authors proceed to discuss the subject, and give their adhesion to Virchow's ophiions as to the prior existence of meningitis of the dura mater, and formation of vascularized false mem- branes, from which the hemorrhage proceeds. They agree with Schuberg as to the existence of prodromata, which may extend over several months, and consist in general weakening of the memory and of the intelligence, giddiness, and continuous or intermittent, general or local pain in the head, followed at a later period by aggravation of these phenomena, transitory loss of consciousness from momentarily arrested cerebral circulation, somnolence and apathy, weakness, and generally one-sided paralysis of the extremities, which soon disappear. Finally, the apoplectic phenomena