8 UEPOltT ON PHYSIOLOGY. Hitter, T. F.—Some researches on Ihe Influence of Food upon tic quantity of Bile daily secreted. Marburg, 1862. ScniFF, M.—On the relation luhich the Liver-circulation has to the Formation of Bile. Schweizerische Zeitschrift fur Heilkunde, vol. i, p. i. VanDeex, I.— On the Formation of Sugar from Glycerine in the Animal Body. Archiv fur die holliindischen Beitriige, iii, pp. 25—61. Hitppert, H.—On the asserted Formation of Suyar from Glycerine. Archiv der Heilkunde, iii, p. 289. KiiTHE, F.—On the Function of the Liver. Heynsius's Studies in the Physiological Institution of-Amsterdam, pp. 20—<;6. Heynsius, A.—The source from whence the Sugar in the Liver is derived. Stud, in Physiol. Inst, of Amst., pp. 57—98. Hoppe.—On the presence of the Biliary Acids in Jaundiced Urine, and on the formation of the Biliary Pigment. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxiv, p. 1. Jaefe, Max.—On the Identity of Hcematoidine and Bilifulvine. Vir- chow's Archiv, vol. xxv, p. 414. Very little is known, up to the present time, about the part which cholestearine plays in the animal system. But the facts of its being contained in large quantities in the nervous matter, of its occurring nor- mally in the blood, of its being so frequently formed and accumulated in morbid processes in all parts of the body, together with the fact of its entirely resisting saponification, would seem to indicate that it represents a very peculiar and important stage in the metamorphosis of matter within the organism. Mr. Austin Flint, of America, has recently made some interesting researches on the excretion of cholestearine by the liver, and we give here his own comprehensive summary : 1. Cholestearine exists in the bile, the blood,'the nervous matter, the ciystalline lens, and the meconium, but does not exist in the fa?ces in ordinary conditions. The quantity of cholestearine in the blood of the arm is from live to eight times more than the ordinary estimate. 2. Cholestearine is formed, in great part, if not entirely, in the sub- stance of the nervous matter, where it exists in great abundance, from which it is taken up by the blood, and constitutes one of the most important of the effete or excrementitious products of the body. Its formation is constant, it always existing in the nervous matter and the circulating fluid. 3. Cholestearine is separated from the blood by the liver, appears as a constant element of the bile, and is discharged into the alimentary canal. The history of this substance in the circulating fluid and in the bile marks it as a product destined to be got rid of by the system, or an excretion. It pre-exists in the blood, subserves no useful purpose in the economy, is separated by the liver, and not manufactured there, and if this separation be interfered with accumulates in the system, producing blood poisoning. 4. The bile has two separate and distinct junctions dependent on the presence of two elements of an entirely different character. It has a function connected with nutrition. This is dependent on the presence of