GENERAL, SYSTEM. 51 duly relieved by purgatives and calomel. The hepatic disorder often produces jaundice, and derangement of the heart's action, so that not only a bruit de (liable, but a loud mitral murmur may be heard. Anaemia, oedema of the lower limbs, and splenic enlargement are the consequences of repeated attacks. Trodsseau.—J. de Med. et de Chir. Pratique, vol. xxxiii,p. 150. He lays down the following rules for the cure of obstinate intermittent fever. One ounce of yellow bark in powder is to be taken in a day, com- • mencing from the termination of the paroxysm; in five days the same medi- cal ion is to be repeated, then in eight or ten, and so for six or eight weeks. Trousseau has only seen this proceeding fail once, and then the fever ceased after the expulsion of an enormous mass of intestinal worms. Thalwitzer.— Preuss. MiUt.-arztl., Ztg. 17th, 1862. He cured eight out of thirteen cases of tertian and quartan ague with strychnine, so effectually that there were no relapses ; while out of thirteen cases treated with quinine only five remained free from relapses. He found gr. ^ of strychnine given every evening for ten days, sufficient. If the remedy succeeds it usually prevents the third paroxsym from the date of its commencement. Gastric disorder was no contraindication. Budd, W., M.D.—On the occurrence {hitherto unnoticed) of Malignant Pus- tide in England. Budd defines the disease in question as one which begins as a minute vesicle, always seated on some uncovered part, excites a peculiar form of gangrenous inflammation, which spreads rapidly from the point first affected to the neighbouring tissues, gives rise to local changes of very uncommon aspect, and finally destroys life by general infection. It is well known on the con- tinent, but has hitherto escaped recognition in this country. Yet the disease from which malignant pustule is derived occasions every year a large mortality in the Live stock of the English farmer. Under various names it is identical with the " Charbon" or " Sang" of the French, and " Milz-brand" of German writers. It is known to be communi- cable (1) by direct inoculation ; (2) by means of the skin or tainted hair of diseased beasts ; (3) by eating the flesh of animals diseased in this way; (4) by the bite of insects which have been in contact with the bodies or carcases of diseased cattle. It is ascertained that the malignant pustule, when con- tracted by man, may be communicated by contagion to other men, or back to the animal by inoculation. Budd relates nine cases of the disease, three of whom were under his own care, and six under that of personal friends. He has obtained* some particulars of fifteen other cases which have occurred within a few years in various parts of England. In two of the whole num- ber (twenty-four) the affection was seated in the hand, in the rest it occurred on the face, and generally on or near the Hp. In all the cases which were watched from their commencement, the disease first showed itself as a small red pimple, attended by severe Helling, or by a peculiar hot stinging sensation. In this stage it resembled the bite of a gnat, and in two cases .it seemed to be the actual result of the bite of that insect. In the course of a few hours the pimple was seen to be surmounted by a minute 2