GENERAL SYSTEM. 63 parts of the lung. Of eleven cases, eight recovered and three died. The cough in this affection is violently convulsive. Nitro-muriatic acid in full doses is advised, given with glycerine, and inhalations of creosote. In pleurisy, with copious effusion, he employs mercury and diuretics, and paracentesis, in appropriate cases. Bronchial dilatation is produced in a purely mechanical manner, by the action on the walls of the tubes of the air wliich is driven into them, but cannot penetrate the consolidated lung. The retained expectoration in these cases is commonly offensive. Asthma (true spasmodic) often gives rise to emphysema of the lungs, and may itself be caused either by pulmonary consolidation or tuberculization (partial), and enlarged bronchial glands, or by some abnormal state of the blood, as when it alternates with eczema or gout. Stramonium and bella- donna "Williams has ascertained by experiment to be the proper antagonists of spasmodic contraction of the bronchial tubes. In phthisical haemoptysis, the worst cases are those in which the disease is situated near the root of the lung, didness being marked in the interscapular space. Ice to the chest will control hajmojrfysis, but sets up very injurious violent reaction. Some of the worst cases of phthisis, attended with rapid inflammatory change, have occurred after the use of ice in this way. Among 7000 cases of phthisis, the average duration of life has been four years ; the immense majority have terminated fatally. Of the whole number, twenty-four only have appeared cured ; in thirty-one a partial cure has been obtained ; and in twenty life was much prolonged. Jewell, W.—Trans, of Col. of Phys. of Philadelphia. Amer. Q. J. of Med. Sc., April, 1862. He states that the increase of deaths for 1861 amounts to 2900, being 25 per cent, over those of the former year. This increase is in part apparent, owing to more perfect registration, but is chiefly ascribable to the great prevalence of smallpox, scarlet-fever, and diphtheria. These three diseases have prevailed as epidemics simultaneously, uninfluenced by the seasons of the year or the extremes of temperature. The total number of deaths from these diseases amounted to 2450, viz., from scarlatina, 1190; variola, 758; and diphtheria, 502; constituting nearly four-fifths of the increase of deaths over those for i860, and falling with peculiar violence and fatality on the infant population. The more healthy and pleasant rural districts were visited by these diseases, though not by any means so severely as the crowded and unhealthy parts of the town. D010, C. D.—The Causes and Treatment of Erysipelas. Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 27th. Among 1000 cases of all kinds occurring in out-door dispensary practice at Leith, there were thirty of erysipelas, in the year 1852. In 1851 there were 82 cases among 7640 in Edinburgh, and, again, 75 among 8624 during 1855. The disease is more prevalent during the six colder months of the year than in the six warmer in the ratio of 94 : 63. The mortalil y among 114 cases treated in Edinburgh and London was twelve.