REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 460 Calvert; Aspland.—On the Therapeutic Uses of Carbazotic Acid Med. Times, Sept. 13th. On the recommendation of Mr. Calvert, Mr. Aspland has used carba- zotic acid and carbazotate of ammonia as an antiperiodic in ague and as a tonic in other diseases. The dose of tlie acid varies from a grain to four grains. Its greatest inconvenience consists in its communicating a yellow tinge to the skin, which, however, passes off after two or three weeks. Bernatzik.—On the Physiological Action of the Sulphite of Per chloride of Carbon (Carboneum perchloratum sulphuroswni). "VVien. Ztsch., vol. xvii, p. in. Schmidt, vol. 114, p. 184. This substance has been used for some time as a remedy in Bright's disease by Professor Korner, of Innsbruck. It is a colourless, crystal- line body, of great brilliancy, insoluble in water and acids, slightly soluble in alcohol and ether; it fuses at 1350 C, boils at 1700, and sub- limes without decomposition. It possesses a disagreeable smell, and its vapour is very irritating; when inhaled, it produces smarting in the back of the throat and violent cough, with lachrymation. In damp "air the crystals are decomposed and become acid; carbonic, hydrochloric, sulphurous, and sulphuric acids being produced. It was found by Korner that, when given in medicinal doses (3j—v), it produces incli- nation to cough and copious expectoration, the breathing becomes deep and tranquil, the contraction of the heart more vigorous, and (in cases of albuminuria) albumen disappears from the urine. Korner attributes these results to the increase of the contractility of the arteries and lungs, and the consequent diminution of tension in the venous system and more equal distribution of the blood in the circulation. By this means albuminuria (if dependent on abnormal conditions of vascular pressure) is at once prevented. The author has endeavoured to confirm the clinical observations of Korner by experiments on healthy subjects. He gives the following ac- count of the action of the medicine. Immediately after taking it (in doses of one grain) a sensation as if chlorine had been inhaled is experienced both in the nares and fauces. This is followed in three minutes by retching and chlorinous eructations, which continue for some hours. Irritation in the back of the throat is complained of for the rest of the day. In each experiment the pulse diminished in frequency (from 7 to 21 per minute), the greatest diminution being attained two and a half hours after the dose; at the same time it became harder and of less volume than before. These phenomena are regarded by the author as implying that this substance acts as a powerful excitor of the pneumogastric nerve (hence increased contractility of the lung-tissue and heart). In this respect its action agrees with that of digitalis, and is accordingly marked by a similar modification of the contractions of the heart, which in this case, as in that of digitalis, are rendered fuller and stronger at the same time that they are retarded. As regards the duration of the effect, there is a marked contrast between the two agents—that of digitalis comes on late and lasts long, while that of the sulphite of perchlonde of -