REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 426 Out of 24,132 leeches applied during the year, 18,3 58, or 76 per cent were so completely restored as to be fit to be used again. Of the various methods which were tried, that of dipping the heads of the leeches in diluted vinegar, and then stripping them, was found to be by far the most successful. During the process it appeared to be of great im- portance to avoid touching other parts of the body with the vinegar, and to renew the liquid after each expulsion of blood. The immersion of the leech in diluted vinegar without stripping was very unsuccessful; the blood was never completely expelled, and the leeches all died. The use of flints and gravel in order to facilitate the shedding of the cuticle, and of fragments of marble (especially when river water is employed) "to prevent rapid putrefaction," are strongly recommended. It is essential that the flints and bits of marble should be frequently removed and cleansed, as otherwise they become covered with a deposit of mucus derived from the integument of the leeches. Leeches should not be reapplied after a less interval than four weeks in summer and two or three weeks in winter. MINERAL ACIDS. Sulphuric Acid. Smoler.—Case of Poisoning ly Sulphuric Acid. Wien. Med. Ztg., No. 40, 1861. Schmidt, vol. 113, p. 34. A servant-maid, set. 23, swallowed a poisonous dose of sulphuric acid, from the effects of which she recovered satisfactorily under the ordinary treatment by antidotes and demulcents. But on the eighth day the patient was affected with pneumonia of th,e right lung, which proved fatal in forty-eight hours. The post-mortem examination revealed the following appearances :—The mucous membrane of the tongue was covered with a greenish-yellow coating, that of the fauces was greenish gray, and in the neighbourhood of the epiglottis there were, here and there, sloughings of the epithelium. Similar appearances were observed in the trachea and bronchial tubes. The lungs were moderately dis- tended, and recent pleuritic adhesions existed on the right side. The upper lobe of the right lung was well filled with air, but contained little blood. Both the lower lobes, but particularly the lowest, exhibited red, friable masses, surrounded by serous infiltration, and the right pleura contained eight ounces of serum. Similar pathological changes were observed on the left side, but of less extent. The stomach was slate-coloured, marbled with reddish brown, and the venous network on the surface of the organ was remarkably distended, containing half- stagnant blood. Its mucous membrane was of the same colour, and so soft that it could be easily peeled oft' tiie subjacent muscular layer, which was of a greenish red. The disorganization of tho membrane was con- fined to the greater curvature ; at the pyloric and throughout the in- testines no alteration was observable. On opening tho cranium the pia mater was found to be gorged with blood, and there was considerable sero-purulent subarachnoid effusion. IIaldane.—Case of Poisoning ly Sulphuric Acid. Ediu. Med. Jouru., No. 80, p. 739.