INORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 431 mucous membranes. In cases in which acute atrophy of the liver is ac- companied by symptoms resembling those of toxical gastritis, the smell of phosphorus and the detection of the poison by chemical means afford the only indications for diagnosis. Iodine. Benedict.—On ihe Action of Iodine and Iodide of Potassium on tJie Nervous System. Wiener Ztsch., vol. xviii, p. 94. Schmidt, vol. 115, p. 284. The following research was suggested by a remarkable case recorded by Professor Schuh, in which the injection of iodine into the sac of spina bifida was followed by sudden paralysis of the organs of respiration and circidation. The experiments, which related to the action of iodide of potassium as well as iodine, were made on frogs. The following ques- tions were investigated: 1. By what channel is paralysis transmitted to the peripheral nerves and muscles?—To determine this, both sciatic nerves were exposed, and one of the hind legs separated from the body, the nerve remaining entire. A solution of iodide of potassium containing one part of the salt to four of water, and tinctures containing respectively one part in three and one in six of iodine, were introduced in various quantities into the subcutaneous cellular tissue. It was found that when twelve drops of the solution of iodide of potassium were injected, sensibibty and contractility rapidly disappeared. In both limbs reflex action was an- nulled, although movements could be excited through the spinal cord. The experiment was then reversed ; both sciatic nerves were exposed, and one (the left) was divided and isolated. Although the general effects of the poison were manifested, the limb of which the sciatic nerve had been divided remained unaffected. Vigorous contractions of other parts were produced by irritation of the nerves and muscles, while in the right limb no effect was observable, even in the muscles irritated. These experiments were repeated with the same results, and checked by similar experiments on frogs not under the influence of the poison. 2. At what rate and in what order does paralysis extend to the respi- ratory and cardiac movements, to the contractility of the muscles of the extremities, and to sensibility ?—The author sought an answer to this question by comparing the effects of varying quantities of the agent. Having first ascertained by experiment that when no poison had been used the heart might be exposed for more than four hours with very slight alteration of the respiratory or cardiac movements, he repeated the observation after three drops of solution of iodide of potassium had been injected. It appeared that the muscles of respiration died much more quickly than those of the heart, and that the heart was sooner paralysed than the muscles of the extremities. When large doses were employed these relations were somewhat altered for the action of the poison on the muscles of respiration and on those of the extremities, became much more rapid relatively to the period of cessation of the action of the heart. When tincture of iodine was substituted for iodide of potassium, the movements of circulation and respiration and the contractility of the muscles of the limbs ceased