471 POISONOUS GASES. In the fatal case the stomach was full, and although the mouth contained undigested food, none was found on the bedclothes, so that the sounds heard were probably rather those of gasping respiration than of retching. Alms. — On tlie Poisonous Effects of Coal-gas upon the Animal System. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlv, pp. 99 and 137. This paper is founded on a series of sixteen experiments on rats. In six of these the animals were immersed in undiluted gas until death took place; in six others the immersion was only continued until in- sensibility was produced, and the effects of various restorative means were tried; while in the remaining four the effects of gas diluted with different proportions of air were investigated. In the first series common gas was used in three experiments, cannel gas in two experiments, and impure gas in one. With common gas (Newcastle coal, enriched by "Wigan cannel), the periods at which insensibility was produced were severally thirty seconds, thirty-three seconds, and twenty-one seconds ; and death took place in ninety seconds, eighty-three seconds, and seventy seconds. "With cannel gas the animals became insensible in twenty seconds and in twenty-five seconds, and died in sixty-five seconds and a minute. Foul gas rendered a rat insensible in eleven seconds, and killed it in forty-five seconds. From the second series it appeared that rats rendered insensible by gas were resuscitated in thirty-five and fifty-five seconds on exposure to * fresh air, in 105 seconds on exposure to air containing ammonia, and in eighty-five seconds in a vessel containing oxygen. In an atmosphere consisting of equal parts of air and coal-gas, insensibility occurred in seventy-five seconds, and death in two and a half minutes. In an at- mosphere containing one fourth of coal-gas " the respiration became hurried in three minutes, the head dropped in five minutes, slight and re- peated spasmodic action of the diaphragm occurred in six minutes, which lasted five minutes more, when death followed." When the proportion was reduced to one fifteenth the animal soon began to pant hurriedly; the head fell in ten minutes, after which two convulsive " springs" were made, and in seventeen minutes the animal appeared insensible. Con- vulsions recurred at intervals of five and eleven minutes, and in forty- one minutes after immersion respiration became laborious and death occurred. As pathological results of poisoning by gas, the author found congestion of the brain and its membranes, distension of the right side of the heart, and absence of coagulation of the blood, to be the most common, but none of these were invariable.