102 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. MUSCULAR SYSTEM. Zoradelli.—On Contraction of the Ann. Gaz. Med. de Paris, Oct. 19th, 1861. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 25th. The affection is more frequent in males than in females, at or after the age of thirty, and in rheumatic subjects. The development is often pre- ceded by the prolonged influence of cold and damp. The biceps is mosi Ly first affected, then the supinator longus, and, lastly, the coraco-brachialis. The muscular spasm is generally tonic; sometimes, however, it is clonic. Lesions of sensation are always present, varying in seat and form. Some- times there is severe pain, more generally a painful feeling of weight and twitchings at the insertions of the tendons; or there may be an extreme lassitude felt in the whole limb, or in its upper segment alone. Consider- able atrophy occurs at the end of about a month. Local and general bleeding, quinine and narcotics, are certainly useful in acute cases of rheu- matic nature. In most cases rapidly intermitting induced currents of electricity, applied to the antagonists of the contracted muscles, are of most avail. Gubler.—On Muscular Atrophy following Acute Diseases. Gaz. Med. de Paris, Dec. 28th, 1861. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 22nd. Gubler regards this affection as one of the direct consequences of acute diseases, as it appears independently of any previous paralysis arising froni lesion of the nervous system. It may be partial or general, local or diffused. Its duration is generally brief, but in some instances may be prolonged, and the disorder then simulates progressive muscular atrophy. In the way of treatment, a nutritious diet, and stimulant and tonic remedies, are indicated, with galvanic excitation hi chronic cases. Muller, A. D.—Progressive Muscular Paralysis in the Tongue, Soft Palate, and Lips. Hospit. Tidend. Nos. 22, 23, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 169. Muller gives one case in full detail, and subjoins the following remarks : —It is especially characteristic that there ensues no atrophy in the paralysed muscles; they do not lose either their electric sensibility. Paralysis of the soft palate is announced by the speech assuming a nasal character, and the labial letters being so imperfectly pronounced that they are scarcely intelligible. Closure of the nostrils restores the faculty for the time, by preventing the air from escaping in the wrong direction. In most cases, but not in the author's, fluids when swallowed returned in part by the nose. The power of protruding the lips was impaired; the vowels 0 and U could not be pronounced. The buccinator muscle was not paralysed; the patient could blow pretty strongly. The affection is dis- tinguished from paralysis of the soft palate, succeeding to simple or diphtheritic angina, by the lip and tongue not being involved; from double facial paralysis, by the different behaviour of the muscles towards elec- tricity; from general paralysis of the insane, by the movement of the tongue being quite free, and there being no special difficulty in articulating