409 PREGNANCY AND CHILD-BED. rate of phlegmasia dolens forhids the same interpretation of the phe- nomena. In the experiments of injection of lactic acid into the blood, performed by Dr. Mackenzie, there is no evidence to show that in the dogs operated on anything but oedema resulted. The existence of phle- bitis, except as the rarest feature, is fallacious in cases of venous disease. "We must distinguish between the coincidences and the es- sentials of phlegmasia dolens, as in the case of puerperal fever com- plicated by the latter. In the combination, the pathological changes normal to phlegmasia dolens may be modified by the tissue actions, abscess, &c, which are the consequences of the existence of a virus in the blood. In simple uncomplicated phlegmasia dolens the tissues are passive, so to speak. The theory propounded by White is correct as to the nature, though not as to the cause of phlegmasia dolens ; in the natural condition a large quantity of lymph travels from the limbs towards the thoracic duct, and when this current is markedly impeded, white leg results. The author then examines the case of the absorption of a poison into the cellular tissue, and it appears that this may or may not be followed by phlegmasia dolens, according as the obstruction in the lymphatics affects the main current or merely some minor channels, the latter being the rule. The swelling is modified in severe cases by the relative action of the septic blood state and tissues. Cases are quoted to show that lymphatic obstruction is sufficient and alone neces- sary to give rise to phlegmasia dolens. Thus the author concludes :— (i.) That phlegmasia dolens is a local disease. (2.) No general symptoms need be present, this implying absence of blood poison. (3.) Phlebitis, however produced, cannot give rise to phlegmasia dolens, but oedema only. (4.) Phlegmasia dolens may occur in, but forms no necessary part of blood poisoning such as tends to phlebitis, but is modified thereby frequently; and any tissue conditions over and beyond the presence of fibrinous serosity, and the consequent hypertrophous state of the areolar tissue are in no wise essential components of phlegmasia dolens, but common alike to very many different blood diseases. (5.) Obstruction to the main lymphatic channels alone is capable of giving rise to white leg, and acts by preventing the removal of the lymph from the affected limb. (6.) The obstruction may be the result of— a, extrinsic pressure ; b, throm- bosis due to sudden compensatory absorption of vitiated fluid after sudden loss of any kind ; c, inflammatory changes in the vessels them- selves, rare. (7.) The effect of the action of venous obstruction upon the phlegmasia dolens is an intensification of the general swelling, and the presence of oedema during the subsidence of the enlargement of the limb. Lastly, a frequent but unrecognised source of blood vitiation is considered, viz., in cases where large tracts of cellular tissue are diseased, as in erysipelas,sloughing, cancerous, phthisical and dysenteric ulcerations^ and the like ; the lymphatics charged with effete matter and an excessive number of imperfectly developed pale cells formed in their glandular part, pour their contents into the venous system from the thoracic duct and this may be a cause of thrombosis at the right side of the heart and in the vessels leading to the lung.