REPORT ON SURGERY. »74 Ireland ('Med. Times find Gaz.,' 1862, I, 663). Dr. Klob has reported a case of colour-blindness, in which tbe corpus callosum was absent OJahrb. f. Kinderh.,' iii, 3, and Sacb's 'Aim.,' 1862, .310): Dr. H. Schicss, researches on tbe pathological anatomy of tbe eye ('Arch, f. Path. Anat.,' xxiv, 557) i Dr. Roller, report on tbe cases treated at Professor Arlt's clinic in the years i860 and 1861 ('"Wien. Med. Halle,' 1862, p. 17, &c.) : Mr. Nunneley on a new forceps for use in ophthalmic surgery (' Lancet,' 1862, ii, 7) : Mr. Hancock, some further observations on division of tbe ciliary muscle ('Lancet,' 1862, ii, 112, &c.) : Mr. Clarke on tbe propriety of excising tbe eyeball immediately, when de- stroyed by injury ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 306). Mr. Wells on tbe insufflation of calomel in certain diseases of tbe eye ('Ophtb. Hosp. Pep.,' iii, 314): cases of cysticercus (ibid., 322, 324): cases of colo- boma of tbe iris, cboroid, &c. (ibid., 335) : C. Baeumler, an elabo- rate essay on coloboma oculi ('Wiirzb. Zeits.,' iii, 72). Dr. P. Frank bas published in the 'Army Medical Reports' for i860 (London, 1862) an elaborate report on ophthalmic surgery, illustrated by coloured draw- ings of some interesting ophthalmoscopic cases. Dr. C. Ritter, contributions to "tbe pathological anatomy of the eye, derived from experiments on animals" ('Arch. f. Ophth.,' viii. 1, p. f)v— Immediately after its removal, the eye was opened by an equatorial section ; all the tissues were at once examined, and then placed in a very weak solution of bichromate of potash for a few days, when the examination was completed. The author describes and figures, just as Finkbeiner, an epithelium of the hyaloid. 1. Consequences of reclination ; the fibres of the reclined lens wither, their contents becoming disintegrated, their membranes probably remaining unchanged ; the vitreous becomes fluid ; the epithelium of tbe hyaloid fatty. 2. Consequences of discision and of wounds of the anterior capsule. 3. On the origin of panophthalmitis ; tbe author endeavours to show, that all the pus found in the vitreous, retina, and choroid, is derived from the stroma-cells of the choroid ; ac- cording to him, mixed with pus-corpuscles and fibrinous exudation in the vitreous space, there are also to be found pieces of the hyaloid membrane with its epithelium iD a state of fatty degeneration, the membrane itself, however, without any apparent change, portions of every part of the retina, shreds of the membranalimitans, nerve-cells, portions of the rod-layer, &c. Mr. Lawson gives some cases ('Oph. Hosp. Rep.,'iii, 317), to illus- trate tbe advantage of tapping the anterior chamber of tbe eye in cases of sloughing ulcers of the cornea, or of ulcers wbich refuse to heal under other modes of treatment, in cases of onyx, or of ophthalmitis with hypopion. The operation is a simple one, and best performed in the manner usually adopted at Moorfields— by passing a broad needle through tbe cornea at its lower margin, keeping tbe point well forwards towards the cornea, to avoid wounding the lens, and then suddenly turning it on its edge so as to allow tbe aqueous to run off, and rapidly withdrawing it, as soon as tbe iris approaches the cornea. Mr. Lawson bas also contributed a paper on tbe treatment of photo- phobia ('Med.Times and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 126): the following case well exem- plifies the serious results, which may follow a reckless use of the nitrate of silver, even when applied externally:—" A case bas lately been under my