ABDOMEN". 305 case, whether it is iu front of the muscles, in, or hehiud them. It must be admitted of any tumour, that it is seated in the parietes, when it moves with them en masse, when it follows all their motions whether caused by respiration, pressure, or traction with the finger, when it is circumscribed, and when the finger can be pressed under it, so as to measure its thickness. On the other hand, every tumour must be considered to be unconnected with the abdominal wall, when the latter can be freely moved over it, when the integument presents no change and can be raised in folds, and when a deep inspiration renders it less distinct. It is true, that difficult cases occur, in which tumours of the internal organs are adherent to the parietes, and conversely. In many of these cases some assistance may be afforded by percussion ; where the adhesions are limited in extent, the abdominal wall is separated during inspiration from the rest of the tumour by a space, which becomes filled with intestine, and thus the area of the dull sound is diminished. The second question, the position of the tumour in regard to the muscles, may be decided in the following manner. Tumours, which are placed in front of the muscles, become more prominent, when the latter actively contract: those, which are situated in the muscular connective tissue, or which have caused atrophy of the muscular fibres, are unaltered by contraction of the abdominal muscles : those which are seated behind the muscles, are pressed backwards on each contraction, and thus become flattened and less distinct. "We occasionally meet with abscesses in the abdominal wall, which are symptomatic of some more distant lesion, generally of caries of a rib : we should accordingly in these cases always carefully examine the thoracic wall, because such carious affections are often attended by so slight symptoms, that it is only on examination, that signs of disease are found at some small and circumscribed spot. The firm union, however, of the layers of fascia in the middle line prevents the pus burrowing to the opposite side of the abdomen, and thus the rib-affection and the abscess are always on the same side of the body. In many cases of retro-muscular abscess, the muscles become atrophied or displaced ; a few fibres may, however, remain, and when they contract, cause furrows in the soft and yielding swelling. Abscess in the abdominal wall may also depend on some internal disease, such as inflammation of the liver or spleen. Complications of this kind are distinguished by the presence of symptoms of the internal affection, by the abdominal parietes being fixed at the point of swelling, by the latter evidently passing deeply, and by its being continuous with some internal organ ; the latter point may be proved by palpation and by percussion, which gives a constant dulness over a larger space, than that occupied by the abscess. New formations are, on the whole, not rare, and deserve consideration by the practitioner, both in respect to their diagnosis, and their treatment by operation ; they are most frequently located in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. The most common are fatty tumours, which are characterised by their usual symptoms. Cavernous tumours are rare barcomata occur, either in the form of fibro-cellular, or in that of firm fibrous tumours; they are always distinctly circumscribed, have a smooth or nodulated surface, and possess little elasticity. We have never 20