REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. on one side. With respect to the general symptoms, they present them- selves under three heads—the fever, the accompanying gastric symp- toms, and the emaciation. Bigors of intense character are rarely observed; frequency of pulse, with elevation of temperature in the evening, especially when pus is forming, is almost always observed. Loss of appetite, vomiting, nausea, &c, are seldom absent. The symptoms of all kinds are liable to great variation, but when a patient, shortly after lying-in, is the subject of marked dyspeptic symptoms, of emaciation, pains in the abdomen and lower extremities, espe- cially when there is flexion of the thighs, these symptoms should lead to a careful examination of the pelvis. During the first four weeks after delivery pelvic exudations most frequently commence, but the commencement may be considerably later than this : the duration of the disease is dependent on the mode of determination. Those cases come to an end most quickly in which there is a free and early opening for the evacuation of the pus into the bladder orrectum. When fistulous openings form, the duration may be very considerable. The abscess has the greatest tendency to open into the organ in the neighbourhood of which it originated. Perforation of the bladder and rectum are tolerably fre- quent terminations. The evacuation into the intestine is the most frequent of all. The uterus is rarely perforated, but the vagina fre- quently, and this latter is as favorable as the opening of the abscess into the intestine, which latter Dupuytren considered the best. Other outlets for the passage of the pus from the pelvis are sometimes formed by one of the three following paths—by the side of the vessels, by the side of the muscles, and at the situation of the external cutaneous nerve. The abscess may open also in the lumbar region or through the ischiatic notch in the gluteal region. It is very rare that the abscess opens in the perineal region, and the bursting of the abscess into the peritoneal cavity is fortunately very rare. In reference to the diagnosis, it is sometimes difficult, when there is considerable swelling about the hip-joint, with flexion of the limb and considerable pain, to say that the hip-joint itself is not affected. Again, an abscess of the hip-joint may opeu into the pelvis, and give rise to an error of diagnosis of the oppo- site kind. If the case be under observation from an early period its nature will be more clear. It is a matter of universal experience that the condition of the patient undergoes a marked amelioration when the abscess has opened. When the opening is free the abscess rapidly dis- appears. When there is a sinuous, fistulous passage, it is not so, and the patient may die exhausted. So also, when the opening of the abscess is postponed for a long time, serious results are very apt to ensue. The author has not observed that sterility necessarily follows pelvic abscess. He considers that, practically, the distinction between cases in which the exudation occurs above and those in which it occurs beneatli the iliac fascia is unimportant. The most important thing to ascertain is the position at which the affection commenced. Careful examination will in many cases give the required information. With simple neuralgia, with faecal tumours, pelvic abscess should not be con- founded. In one case an ovarian cyst, which rapidly increased in size after labour, gave rise to some uncertainty. As regards the character