ItKPOItT ON M'HOKI!Y. The syphilitic person, from whom the hlootl was derived, was twenty-two years old, and in the eighth month of pregnancy. She had on the pos- terior commissure a large, elevated, irregular ulcer, which was seated on a hardish hasc, and suppurated hut little, hut was, however, very painful; swelling of the inguinal and cervical glands, a maculated and papular eruption, ulcers in the fauces, falling-ofi' of the hair, &c. On the 31st of May she gave birth to a little, weak, but apparently healthy child ; five days later, however, pemphigus appeared on the palms of the hands and * the soles of the feet, and was followed by dirty-red patches and tubercles on the nates and about the anus. This child, wasted to a skeleton, died in five weeks. It was not till the fourth week after the injection, that any change appeared ; at that time, a little red tubercle showed itself at the puncture on the right side, and it then gradually increased, especially in breadth, became excoriated on the surface, and covered with a thin, yellowish- brown crust. It reached the size of a sixpence, was surrounded by a red areola, was elevated towards the margin, but a little depressed in the centre, was sealed on a hardish base, and on removal of the thin crust showed a red, somewhat spongy surface, with a little thin secretion ; the latter soon dried again into a thin scab. Eight days later there appeared, two inches above this ulcer, between the vertebrae and the edge of the scapula and just under the skin, a swollen lymphatic gland of the size of a bean, and which could be distinctly seen or felt. At a later period the occipital, cervical, and cubital glands enlarged; on the skin there appeared a maculated, tubercular, and finally scaly affection. The syphilis was per- fectly cured by iodide of potassium ; the ulcer on the forehead remained without change. The influence of different regions of the body on the development of the hard or soft sore was apparently proved by the generally admitted fact, that chancres on the head are always hard, those on the vulva almost always soft. The former of these statements has now been satisfactorily disproved : soft chancres inoculated on the head always produce soft sores. The non-occurrence of hard chancre on the female genitals is now, says Lindwurm, to be explained in a different manner. Condylo- matous growths represent in the female the primary disease. When a healthy person is inoculated with pus from a hard chancre, a small papule is formed after a certain length of incubation, and it is the further course of this papule, that appears to be modified by position, the medicaments applied to it, and other accidental conditions. When it is placed on such parts as are constantly moist, wet, or irritated by secretions, this primary papule becomes much more luxuriant in its growth, and passes directly into a broad condyloma ; such a change is the rule in women, but rare in men. The opinion, that in such cases the broad condyloma has been developed from an indurated chancre by a trans/or- mulio in situ, or that a broad condyloma must be invariably preceded by an indurated sore, is perfectly erroneous ; as indeed is the opinion supported by Ricord, Langlebert, and llollet, and now generally adopted by practitioners, that constitutional syphilis must always commence with an ulcer. Experimentation has taught us the opposite, for in many cases we found c institutional syphilis developed from solid, dry, desquamating