403 PREGNANCY AND CHILD-BED. then sinks into the pelvis proper, i. Exudations starting from the anterolateral part of the cellular tissue lower down, where the body of the uterus joins the cervix of the organ, fill, first the cellular tissue of the true pelvis laterally to the uterus and bladder, and pass then with the round ligament towards Poupart's ligament. Thence they extc nd to the iliac fossa externally and backwards. 3. If ttie starting-point be the posterior part of the base of the lateral ligament, the posterior and lateral parts of the pelvis are first filled, that is to say, the Douglas fossa, and they follow then the course of those under head No. 1. The symptoms which characterise the presence of effusions in the pelvis, &c, are next considered. Local pain is hardly ever absent. The seat of the pain is of diagnostic importance ; thus, a fixed pain in the region of the broad ligament indicates commencement of inflammation. Puerperal exudations frequently give rise to pains of neuralgic character, due to pressure of the effused products on nerves passing through the pelvis ; this latter may be an intense pain, or simply an altered sensation —coldness, warmth, &c. The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh is especially the one affected, at other times the crural nerve chiefly; or the pain may be solely of sciatic character. Painful sensations deep down in the pelvis are not common. There is one symptom which is almost constantly present, viz., flexion of the thigh on the trunk. The effusion, being situated under the fascia covering the psoas muscle, gives rise to pain on extension of the limb. This paiu, from which the pat ient seeks relief by flexing the limb, is often mistaken for pain in the hip- joint. Such flexion of the thigh is alone almost diagnostic of presence of exudation in the pelvis. Further flexion of the limb is not painful, but attempts at extension exceedingly so. If the swelling extends to and around the hip-joint, the diagnosis maybe difficult; pressure of the leg upwards in the vertical direction is usually painful when the joint itself is affected. The vessels of the lower extremities are sometimes affected by the pressure within the pelvis, this giving rise to oedema of the ankles and labia. Anomalies as regards defecation are generally present. A peculiar condition often present is fixation of the intestine by the effused products, whereby the contraction of the tube is interfered with. Micturition is often rendered difficult or otherwise altered; an intense degree of vesical catarrh is often present. Vaginal catarrh, also is frequently observed; this it is important to distinguish from rupture of pelvic abscess into the vagina. In almost all cases the results of pal- pation over the abdomen give important diagnostic information. The presence of a hard, resistent swelling, extending, on an average, half the breadth of the hand above Poupart's ligament on one or other side; presence of fluctuation when the abscess is of larger size: presence of depressed, softer, painful spots over the surface of the tumour—such are the more characteristic signs of the tumour due to pelvic abscess. There is dulness on percussion when the abscess rises high enough ; otherwise, the intestines intervening, the percussion sound is clear.' Vaginal examination gives results not always conclusive, much de- pending on the position of the tumour; fluctuation is seldom to be detected until a late stage of the affection. Sometimes the rectal examination shows, in addition to other signs, that the bowel is pushed