REPORT ON SURGERY. 2-10 intensity. The increased growth of hair over the tumour is very marked —a circumstance which has been pointed out by M. Broca. The tempe- rature of the tumour is found to be one degree higher than that of the rest of the limb. The sphygmograph of M. Marey clearly proves that there is a diminution of power in the pulsations of the vessels below the tumour, the dorsalis pedis, and especially the posterior tibial. (After an account of the various varieties of arterio-venous aneurism, N61aton arrives at the conclusion that the present case is one of varicose aneu- rism, the aneurismal tumour lying between the artery and the vein.) The prognosis is much less serious than in the case of a simple aneurism. The blood always finds a ready escape, and thus the sac runs no danger of rupture, as sometimes occurs in the ordinary form. Treatment.—The oldest on record is direct compression of the aneurism and the surrounding parts. Scarpa mentions it in his work, but only to completely interdict its use in cases of arterio-venous aneurism, founding his opinion on the fact, that by compression, this aneurism might be transformed into an arterial aneurism, which is of a much more serious character. It is, he says, desirable to preserve the communication existing in the arterio-venous tumour ;—yet if the latter form is less dangerous, it is also on many accounts much less easy to cure, especially because a coagulum forms in it with much greater difficulty, owing to the great quantity of venous blood, and the almost constant agitation to which all the liquid mass is subjected. Indeed, in the present case, the sac does not contain a trace of coagulum. In 1844, I treated by compression an arterio-venous aneurism of the arm, and had the good fortune to witness its transformation into the arterial, which Scarpa had feared; I then ligatured the artery according to Anel's method, and the patient recovered. On another case of arterio-venous aneurism presenting itself to me, instead of ligaturing the brachial artery, »I caused the pressure to he coutinued for a much longer period, and saw a complete cure succeed the change of the arterio-venous into the arterial variety. These facts were published, and gave rise to various debates. The idea, that one species of aneurism could be transformed into another, was so far removed from the general opinion, that many doubts of its genuineness were openly uttered. It was asserted that the decrease of the vibrations, and the occurrence of an intermittent in the place of a continuous blowing sound, were not decisive phenomena. I cannot admit such a statement, for not only is the vibration of an arterial aneurism so different from that in the arterio-venous, that they cannot be' mistaken for one another, hut also, on the other hand, the ear can easily perceive the transition of the continuous into the intermittent bruit, which is strikingly characterised by the interval of silence between two consecutive sounds. This question remained undecided for some years, when opportunity occurred for proving both the transformation and the cure in fresh cases of arterio-venous aneurism. The discussion was resumed, and, I think that now no one doubts the reality of this transformation. If we apply these remarks to the case before us, we shall easily see, how little likeli- hood there is of success, especially when we bear in mind the age of the tumour. The four arterio-venous aneurisms that I have treated success- fully, only dated from one, two or three, six months at the most, whilst