RKl'OHT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. one-seventh of all eases of apoplexy, neither predisposing diseases of the heart nor of the vessels could be demonstrated. Rogers.—On Diphtheritic Paralysis. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 4th. During the year i860, there occurred 210 cases of diphtheria at the Hopital des Enfans, and paralytic symptoms followed in thirty-one cases. The proportion would have been one-fourth or one-third higher, but for the early removal of some cases, and the death of others. During the same period among sixty-one cases of angina simplex, twelve of typhoid fever, thirty-three of rubeola, twelve of scarlatina, four of variola, and twenty- four of pneumonia, not one instance of secondary paralysis occurred. In forty cases the ages most frequently affected were from four to six. The paralysis usually appeared from the fourth to the eighth day. Recovery mostly ensues, though in some cases death has taken place from paralysis of the respiratory muscles or sudden suffocation. In the way of treatment Rogers recommends tonics, iron, sulphurous preparations, and the applica- tion of electricity. Stoffella.—Case of Paralysis Agitans with Autopsy. Wien, Wochenbl. xvii, 37, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 39. A man, ait. 72, became affected suddenly with weakness, followed by paralysis agitans, in consequence of a severe fright. This continued for five years in spite of treatment. Death was the result of dysentery. At the autopsy there were found traces of old tuberculosis of the lungs, atrophy of the brain, with secondary dropsy of the ventricles and cerebral membranes ; in the right thalam. opt. an apopleptic cyst, as big as a pea; the pons Varolii and med. oblong, remarkably stiff, the arteries at the base rigid, and ossified in spots, and the lateral columns of the cord, especially in the lumbar region, traversed by greyish opaque streaks, which, as well as the indurations in the pons and medulla, resulted from embryonal connec- tive tissue. Taylor, C.—Report of an Obstinate Case of Chronic Myelitis, with accom- panying Paralysis of the lower half of the Body, successfully treated. Brit. Med. J., May 24th. The disease had lasted eleven months before treatment was commenced which consisted in the administration of ergot and belladonna, pot. iodid. and ol. morrh., with alternated cold and hot flapping of the back, twice daily, and a cold douche, followed by violent rubbing with mustard every morning. Recovery was complete, with the exception of some slight want of power in guiding the legs. The symptoms were exceedingly well marked, and the treatment was based upon a correct diagnosis. Another case of paraplegia, equally severe, is subjoined, where the affection was of a totally different nature, and recovery ensued rapidly from the use of localised electricity to the paralysed muscles. Leudet.—On essential Paralyses following Typhus. Gaz. de Paris, 19, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 27. Leudet adopts Gubler's view as to the division of the cases into those oc- curring during the course of the disease, and those taking place during con-