HEl'OKT ON I'HACTICAT, MEDICINE. 110 upon the swelling mid redness found at the edges of the valves as a post- mortem plicnomo , mid says they do not occur in animals examined directly after death. Reyher examined, immediately after death, the hearts of thirty-two apparently healthy dogs, who had no lactic acid injection, and found in all changes identical with those believed to be produced by the acid. He thinks, therefore, that there is no proof that endocarditis arises from an accumulation of lactic acid in the blood. Inman.—Med. T. and Gaz., March ist. Eecords a case of abscess at the base of heart, communicating with the right ventricle. The abscess was extensive, and appeared to be of some date. The pulmonary arteries were filled with a firm white coagulum. The heart was of normal size, and externally seemed healthy. The lungs contained a great deal of diffused or infiltrated pus. The other viscera were healthy. The patient had suffered with rigors daily for seven or eight months, and appeared seriously ill, with a sallow jaundiced complexion. There was no trace of pyemic changes. Hirtz.—Clinical Study of the Effects of Digitalis Purpurea. Bullet, de Therap., Feb. 28th, March 15th. After some important remarks on the necessity for a closer study of therapeutics, and more attention to the proper mode of preparing the various drugs, Hirtz proceeds to consider (1) The physiological action of digitalis, but does not add any new facts to those with which we were previously acquainted. He cites the experiments of Traube, Stannius, Bowley, and Baehr, but can come to no other conclusion than that the drug exerts a paralysing action upon the heart, which first manifests itself by a slowing taking place coincidently with nervous depression. The temperature is at first increased, then depressed. Diuresis is very uncertain, but gastric irritation is a very constant effect. (2) The action of digitalis in certain diseases, especially in the acute, inflammatory, and febrile. He refers, first, to the observations made in Germany, and notices especially those con- tained in Kulp's thesis. One case of his own is given in detail, in which venesection and ant. pot. tart, produced in two days no amendment, the pulse remaining at 118, and the temperature at 104° 6. Digitalis was then given, and in two days the pulse had fallen to 82, and the temperature to 98°-6. The digitalis was now left off, but the next day the pulse was 53, and temperature 97°-3. Crepitatio redux was now heard, the case being one of pneumonia of the right upper lobe. The pulse and tempera- ture now began to rise. On the eleventh day (three days later) the patienl was convalescent. Hirtz has employed the same treatment in acute phthisis, acute bronchitis, pleurisy, acute rheumatism, and with similar results. Diuresis has rarely occurred. Venesection may be employed with the digitalis. No ill effects have ever ensued. The amount of the drug taken has varied from seven to thirty-seven grains. Hepp.—Pharmaceutical Hints on Digitalis. Bull. Gen. de Therap., March 15th, 1862. Hepp considers it of great importance to follow the directions given by