61 GENERAL SYSTEM. If gonorrhoea! matter produces a pustule on inoculation there exists, according to Eicord, a chancre in the urethra. Now, as the hard chancre is non-inoculable, we must believe either that a soft chancre may give rise to constitutional syphilis, or that mere gonorrhoea may have the same effect. On Pellagra. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 8th. The disease has increased much of late years in various parts of Italy, appa- rently in consequence of the use of spoiled make as food. The symptoms manifest themselves in the skin, the digestive organs, the muscular and nervous systems. The skin becomes erythematous, itching, hot, dry, thin, and of a dark-brown colour. The appetite is lost, there is dryness in the tln oat, pyrosis, and diarrhoea. Muscular debility becomes extreme, and the mental faculities more or less seriously impaired. The disease is most in- tense in spring, but in autumn abates considerably. The reason of this appears to be that corn is used for food during harvest. Reder, A.—On the Division of Chancre from Syphilis. Wien. Ztschr., xviii, p. 57, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 185. Reder contends that syphilis is a completely distinct disease from chancre, and that it only coexists with it so commonly because hoth are communicated in the same way. Report of the Vienna Hospital for 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 116. Hermann regards the induration of chancre as an accidental modification, depending on individual peculiarities, or induced by treatment, as cauteriza- tion. Both hard and soft chancres have the same course for the most part, and require the same treatment. Macidous and papulous exanthemata he regards as local diseases, since they appear during the existence of the primary affection. Syphilitic exanthemata he is positive may residt from blen- norhagia or condylomata alone without any chancre. The more developed forms, pustules, &c, are either the results of the mercurial cachexia, or of syphilis treated with mercurials. In treatment he excludes entirely all mercurials used externally or internally, and uses only external remedies in pure syphilis, i. e. in such phenomena as are produced by the direct com- munication of the syphilitic poison to any structure of the body. Iodine he ■mploys in all the forms of so-called constitutional syphilis, which he con- siders essentially hydrargyrosis. This, he states, is extremely prone to re- apse, while pure syphilis has no such tendency. Warbuuton Beobie, J.—On Lead Impregnation, and its Connexion with Gout and Rheumatism. Edin. Med. J., August, 1862. ; Begbie confirms Garrod's views, but does not find that the administra- ion of Pot. Iod. causes the elimination of lead by the urine. 5olli, G.—On the morbific Ferments, and the Treatment of the Catalytic Diseases produced by them with Sulphurous Acid. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 1,16, p. 242. Polli, believing that many diseases are caused by the presence in the