64 UUPOKT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. lvikejeff, A.—On the action of Cold and Warm Sitz Batlis on Healthy Persons. Virchow's Arch., xxii, 5, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 180. The general results are that both cause increased tissue change, augment- ing the quantity of the urea and uric acid, but especially that of the chlorides and other inorganic constituents, excepting the phosphoric acid. The amount of the urine and the intestinal excreta was not changed, nor, for the most part, was the imperceptible transpiration. The above changes solely pro- ceeded from the subsequent action of the baths on the organism. The im- mediate effects from the warm baths were slight increase of the tempera- ture, diminished perspiration, and greater fulness of the pulse. The cold baths caused some irregularity of the respiratory movements, diminution of the cutaneous evaporation, contraction of the cutaneous muscles, and especially cooling of the body. Reumont, A.—Fresh Observations and Experience respecting the action of the Sulphureous Thermal of Aix-la-Chapelle in Syphilitic Disorders. Deutsche Klinik., April 19th, 26th, May 3rd. Reumont holds that these baths are no specific against constitutional syphilis, but that they are an excellent means of diagnosis in doubtful cases by causing unequivocal signs of the disease to appear. They also pre- pare the system very advantageously for the action of other remedies, or powerfully assist their action when combined with them. They remove lingering traces of syphilitic disorder, especially on the sldn, and get rid of the injurious effects of mercury. In diseases of bones and of the periosteum the therms, in combination generally with Pot. Iod., are of essential service. Aspland.—Med. T. and Gaz., Sep. 13th. He records various cases of severe disease, as ague, diabetes, marasmus, empyema (?), treated successfully by carbazotic acid, or carbazotate of ammonia. It tinges the skin and urine of a deep orange colour, which lasts two or three weeks after the discontinuance of the remedy. The dose is gr. j-iv, ter die of the acid. Ricord.—J. de Med. et Chir. Pratiq., vol. xxxiii, p. 309. Apropos of a case of ulcerative destruction of the soft and hard palate in a girl, set. 14, free from all other signs of disease, he maintained the view that the disease was the result of syphilis in its tertiary period communi- cated hereditarily. Hardey, R.—On the General Disuse of Venesection in the Treatment of Acute Diseases. Brit. Med. J., Nov. 1st. Hardey avers his belief in the view that disease in its varied characters is modified by cyclical periods, and finds much less need for venesection now than he did twenty-five or thirty years ago. He is, however, also of opinion that the well-timed use of systemic bleedings is one of the best remedies we possess in the early treatment of acute disease.