157 SECRETORY SYSTEM. Waters, A. J. H., M.D.—On a Case of Chylous Urine. Transact, of Med.-Chir. Soc, vol. xlv. The patient was a native of Bermuda, ait. 23. The urine at first was milky, bloody, clotted, and highly albuminous. Its water, fat, and mucus were'in excess, and the urea, extractives, and alkaline and earthy salts were deficient. Quinine and iron were unavailing, but gallic acid, carried to the amount of 13 5 grains daily, completely arrested the disorder, the urine remaining perfectly healthy for five weeks. A vapour-bath was also given for some time every night, and the author thinks that it was highly beneficial. He regards a relaxed condition of the renal capillaries as the main pathological feature of the disease. Dutt, G. C.—Lancet, July 24th. Eecords the cure of a case of chylous urine by Tr. Ferri Mur., after gallic acid, in nine grain doses daily, had failed. Warburton Begbie, J.—On Chylous Urine. Edin. Med. J., August, 1862. In this case rest operated very strongly in diminishing the amount of fat and albumen in the urine, while a brisk walk, or even moving about in the ward, as powerfully increased both. Gallic acid had no effect on the urine, but the salts of iron, especially the persesquinitrate, were more ser- viceable. The chylous offlow was increased after every meal, but much more after such ingesta as caused a feeling of indigestion. Lionel Beale.— "Dumb-bells" of Oxalate of Lime from a Clinical Point of View. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 4th. Beale thinks that dumb-bells very generally form the true nuclei of uric acid and oxalate of linie calculi, having found them in ten specimens of small uric acid calculi. He advises to procure copious diuresis once a week by draughts of Vichy or other alkaline waters, by which means the crystals arc washed out of the renal tubes. The general health must also be attended to, a proper hygiene being enforced and tonics administered. Stift, H.—The New Sodium-Lithium Spring at Weilbach Baths. Deutsche Klinik., March 29th, April 5th. This spring contains 0-06 of lithium in 1000 parts, and a considerable quantity of carb. of soda. Ten cases are related of its beneficial effects, and it is said in general (1) to promote the passage of urinary concretions ; (2) To procure the diminution of the quantity of uric acid in the urine, and the disappearance of the sediment of urates ; (3) To remove existing gouty affections of the joints. WilIjEmin. On Hepatic Colic and its Treatment by the Waters of Vichy. Gaz. Med., July 12th. Lond. Med. Rev., Aug. The' most frequent complication of biliary lithias'is is gout or uric acid gravel. The only primary causes of the diathesis which Willemin knows of, are inheritance and individual predisposition; the occasional causes winch hasten the occurrence of the first attacks arc a sedentary life (especially when this is assumed after active habits), certain mental