REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 382 given have been, for the most part, based on extreme cases, whereas in the majority of cases, the patient recovering, no opportunity is afforded for inspecting more closely the conditions present. VjBOHOV, Prof. — On Diffuse Puerperal Metritis and Parametritis. Virchow's Archiv., 1862, p. 41 By parametritis is meant the inflammation of the fatty and cellular tissue at the lower and lateral borders of the uterus. This tissue is fre- cpiently the seat of puerperal affections. A swelling of the tissue, pro- bably preceded by hyperemia, is first noticed; the tissue becomes thickened, hardened, opatpie—a sort of hardened, cedematous condition. A fluid, first transparent, then opaque, issues on section ; the cells are found, by microscopic examination, to be enlarged, their contents thicker, and in greater quantity, not becoming quite transparent on adding acetic acid. The nuclei are enlarged, and undergo division. In a further stage of the affection the cells themselves split up, and groups of smaller, roundish, granulative cells are met with, in place of the spindle-shaped, simple cells. These changed elements undergo, in many places, an early fatty metamorphosis ; the muscular tissue may be simi- larly affected; the involution of the uterus may be for a considerable time hindered by the presence of this affection. The most usual seat of the affection is the subperitoneal tissue behind, in front of, and at the sides of the uterus, but it frequently extends from these points lower down. "When epidemic influences are in operation it takes the characters of a diffuse phlegmon, and then the lymphatics are also, and at an early period, affected, and the alteration in them consists of " lymph-throm- bosis," the vessels in question being distended with fluid or nearly solid yellow or yellowish-white, sometimes puriform'-looking, material. There is no evidence of inflammation, except as secondary, within the lym- phatic vessels themselves. The presence of such a condition of the lymphatics betokens a serious disorder. The coagulation of the lym- phatics is produced by presence of some deleterious agent at the seat of the diffuse inflammation. The lymphatic glands in the lumbar, inguinal, and iliac regions are enlarged in these cases. The whole affection has the greatest possible resemblance to the erysipelas and pseudo-erysipelas with which we are familiar on the outer surface of the body, and the author proposes the name "erysipelas malignum puerperale internum" to designate it. DISEASES OE THE OVARIES. De Meric, Victor.—On Gonorrheal Ovaritis. Lancet, June 14th, 1862. The diagnosis of gonorrhea in the female being excessively difficult, the author has confined his remarks on this imperfectly known condi- tion, gonorrhceal ovaritis, to cases where women were contaminated by their husbands, this circumstance leaving no doubt as to the nature of the discharge on the female side. Authors have been alive to the pos- sibility of ovaritis occurring as a complication of gonorrhoea, but the recorded facts are very few in number. The author then relates a case shortly, as follows:—A woman having had an abundant discharge,