31 NERVOUS SYSTEM. JNo inflammation whatever took place in those cases in which he suc- ceeded in shutting out all external irritation. But as soon as the cap- sule was removed inflammation set in with remarkable rapidity. He concluded that after division of the Casserian ganglion inflammation of the eye does not occur spontaneously, but that the organ is very liable to undergo that process on the slightest provocation ; that its power of resisting irritation is greatly diminished. In one case, however, he got an entirely different result. In a healthy rabbit, in which the eye had been protected in the usual way, severe inflammation set in without any external cause. This inflammation varied greatly from that which took place in cases in which the eye had not been protected after the operation. It ran a much more acute and violent course. The cornea, which in no other case was found ulcerated, was in this instance nearly perforated at the end of twenty-four hours. The rabbit was killed after the inflammation had lasted for two days. The dissection showed that the ganglion had been divided ; but another cut was also found more anteriorly, not entirely dividing the nerves. The ganglion was vividly injected, and the inflammatory redness extended along the ophthalmic nerve. This appearance was present in no other instance, and Dr. Buettner did not succeed in producing these curious phenomena in any other rabbit. Bernard states that in a former paper, written in 185a, he had shown that the vascular and calorific nerves of the head were independent of the musculo-motor nerves of the same part. It is his intention now to show that the same holds good for other parts also. By means of a hook, shaped for the purpose, Bernard managed, in a strong dog, to divide the sympathetic in the lumbar region, without injuring the other nerves or the peritoneum. The temperature of the side operated upon rose at once till it exceeded that of the other side by 8° 0. Neither motion nor "sensibility was impaired. The vascular and calorific nerves are therefore quite distinct from the muscular nerves, both as regards their origin and their physiological properties. The movements of the blood may be accelerated or re- tarded in the vessels, either locally or generally, without any partici- pation of the musculo-motor system in the process. The local functional congestions, which supervene periodically in certain organs, are physiological instances of this independency of circulatory movements, while fever furnishes a striking pathological example of the same fact. Similar experiments on the anterior extremities gave the same results. Bernard performed some very neat experiments on dogs. He exposed the lingual nerve, the chorda tympani, and the submaxillary ganglion; thus having before him a sensitive nerve, a motor nerve, and a connecting nervous centre. He then inserted a small silver tube into the duct of the submaxillary gland, which enabled him to watch conveniently the flow of saliva. By dividing the trunk of the tympano-lingual nerve the ganglion was completely isolated from all cerebro-spinal influence. I ho lingual nerve was next stimulated by means of a weak electric