CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 165 pears as lupus advances. (3) From cancer lupus is distinguished by the absence of malignancy, of stony bardness, and of lancinating pains; by the different microscopic characters of the diseased parts; by the slow progress of lupus, and its preference of young subjects; and, lastly, by the difference of the usual sites affected. As to its pathology, Hunt con- cludes, from observations made at his request by Mi-. T. Hogg, that lupus exedens is primarily a disease of the sebaceous follicles, which, becoming disintegrated, discharge their contents into the cellular mem- brane, possibly as a vitiated or decomposed secretion, and, as such, ex- citing irritation and ulceration of the phagedenic kind; the glutinous exudation being composed chiefly of the abnormal fatty secretion of the sebaceous glands, discharged by their disruption. The same degeneration of the sebaceous glands probably occurs in lupus non-exedens; but here the affected glands are less numerous, smaller, and more superficial. For lupus exedens arsenic perseveringly administered is the remedy; for lupus non-exedens, ol. morrh., amnion, iod., and ferruginous preparations, are more suitable. Gat, J.—On the External Use of the Solution oj the Pernitrate of Mer- cury in Epithelial Cancer, Lupus exedens, and the Induration of Chancre. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 18th. Gay remarks, " the obvious value of this agent lies in its being fatal to the disease, and powerless over the healthy tissues. The one it destroys, while it spares the other; . . . . and not only so, but it appears to quicken the healing energies of the latter; so that no sooner is the last vestige of the disease gone, but the wound is almost cicatrized." Seiche.—On the Treatment of Anthrax. Med. Centr. Ztg. xxx, 1861. Seiche treated eleven patients in the ordinary way with incisions, and six died; in five of these cases there was pyamiia, and only one of these reco- vered. Of the other twelve treated with collodium painted over and around the tumour, none died, and pyaemia occurred in three cases only. Dauvergne.—A Pommade to prevent the Fall of the Hair. Bullet. Gencr. de Therapeutique, Dec. 15th, 1861. Brit, and For. Med.- Chir. Rev., July, 1862. Lard, 30 drachms; Norwegian tar, 3 dr. ; butter of nutmegs, 2 dr. • benzoin, 2 drs.; Fiovarenti balm, 3 drs.; baume de commandeur, 3 drs. • musk, 3 grains; essence of patchouli, 30 grains. Hebra, F.—-On the Non-Existence of Characteristic Cicatrices. All* Wien. Med. Ztg., vi, 1861. b' Hebra affirms that the kind of cicatrix depends partly on local and anatomical circumstances, partly on the land of application which has been made to the wound. Nitrate of silver produces the best, sulphuric acid be worst, cicatrices. Astringent applications, as weak sulphate of copper lotions mduce thin; stimulating, as ungt. digestiv. induce thick, cicatrices Spontaneous cicatrices constitute Keloid.