ORGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS. 4G5 Lethebx.—On the Nascent Oxygen Test for Aniline. Cheni. News, Feb. 8th. If a drop of a solution of oue part aniline to iooo of dilute sulphuric acid (i to 7) is placed on a clean piece of platinum, and touched with the negative pole of the galvanic battery (a single Groves cell), while the positive pole is in contact with the platinum, the liquid acquires a bluish, then a violet, and finally a pink colour. Witlacil.— Case of Poisoning by Hydrocyanic Acid. "Wien. Med. Wchnschr., vol. xii, No. 15. Schmidt, vol. 115, p. 291. A worker in bronze, of intemperate habits, took one evening several gulps of the solution of cyanide of potassium used in electro-plating. The fatal effect was immediate; after a few" gasps he died, without con- vulsion. The results of the autopsy, performed thirty-eight hours after death, are recorded as follows:—Marked rigor ; countenance unaltered ; right pupil contracted, left dilated; mouth open; lower jaw immovable; fiugers clenched; bright-red discoloration of the dorsal surface of the trunk. Membranes of the brain congested; cerebral substance studded with very numerous red points. Mucous membrane of the air-passages uniformly stained of a bright-red colour. Excessive hyperemia of both lungs, the whole of the substance of the right lung being soaked witli finely frothy blood, and of a bright-red colour. Similar condition of the left lung as regards those parts which lie nearest the middle line, the upper lobes being oedematous. Heart relaxed; the left ventricle empty, the right containing a mass of tarry blood, having the smell of bitter almonds. Liver and spleen intensely congested, the latter en- larged, and containing dark, thick blood, smelling of bitter almonds. Mucous membrane of the stomach deeply injected, its contents smelling, strongly of prussic acid. Desime.—Nitro-glycerine as a Therapeutic Agent. Schweiz. Ztsch., vol. i, p. 156. Schmidt, vol. 116, p. 174. Nitro-glycerine is prepared by addiug one volume of glycerine, drop by drop, to six volumes of fuming nitric acid and twelve volumes of sul- phuric acid, taking care not to allow the temperature of the mixture to exceed 15° or 200 0. Its constitution is C6H5(3No4)06. Its solution in spirit of wine is the most convenient form for therapeu- tical use. It contains one ninth, by weight, of nitro-glycerine. The author made experiments on himself, and observed the action of the remedy in his hospital practice at Berne, where he gave from two to three drops of the solution three times a day or oftener. His results were as follows:—Nitro-glycerine is to be regarded as an energetic poison. Its action resembles that of nux vomica and its preparations, but in some respects it appears to be more active. After ten drops of the solution the author experienced in a few minutes smarting pain in the throat, excessive headache and vertigo, contraction of the masseters and temporals (slight trismus), and twitching of certain groups of muscles of the limbs, all of which effects had passed away in twenty minutes. Therapeutically, the drug was found of marked efficacy in those forms of partial paralysis in which strychnine is usually pre- scribed.