REPORT o.N l'RACTICAl, MEDICINE! day with neutral salts, until the foetid odoni of the dejections was *A Ine results ol this were lessened tenderness in the right iliac region and th whole abdomen, lowering of the pulse, diminished headaeh, and more cle consciousness, when from the beginning there had been stupor or com Iodoform and chlorine gas mixed with the air and inhaled, produced very good effect, the former was also given internally dissolved in ether, a was found to check coma and delirium. The mortality of the cases u'nde his treatment was one in thirty, and would probably have been less, cou the patients have- been placed in more favourable circumstances. Smith, Archibald.—On the spotted Hcemorrhagic Yellow Fever of t Peruvian Andes, during 1853, '54, '55,'56,'57. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 4th. The epidemic appeared under the forms of benignant, or simple hajmor- rhagic; of bilious, or icteric; and of nervous, or ataxic. It seemed, at a elevation of 7000 feet, the blood-poison of the coast directed itself chiefly the subcutaneous capillaries in preference to those of the stomach. Bl vomit occurred on the coast, red and violet spots in the skin at the high, level; the disease was, however, equally fatal. Alvarenza.—Pathological Anatomy of the Yellow Fever at Lisbon, i 1857. Lond. Med. Bev., March. Haemorrhages were found, as to the order of frequency, in the followin organs;—the lungs, meninges of the brain, gastro-intestinal mucous mem- brane, urinary, and the muscles. The fiver cells were loaded with fat a sugar. The contents of the intestine were bloody. Albuminuria is usu greatest in the early stage, and decreases in the later. Lawson, H.—Observations on Yellow Fever; Influence on the Secretions Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Bev., April, October, 1862. Suppression of mine is most common from the fourth to the sixth day but it may occur many days later. The result of suppression is almo universally fatal. Vesical epithelium appears abundantly in the urine on th morning of the fourth day, and a clay later is in great measure replaced b granular tube-casts from the kidneys with which waxy ones are not mure quently associated. The casts become more hyaline and less numerous on an after the sixth day, till they nearly disappear. In some cases there is no bio whatever in the urine, in others blood globules are present in the secretion or in the casts, and in others again the urine, the epithelium, and the cas are tinted deeply with ha?matine. The latter condition is almost a fatal sign while the presence of blood globules (if not excessive) is generally of goo omen. Bile also may appear in the urine, and its excretion in this wa is always beneficial. The presence of urrhodine or uroglaucine in notabl quantity in the urine coincided with epidemic prevalence of the fever. Thefi modifications of the natural pigment are shown by the development of colour varying from red, through purple to blue, when some drops of urin are cautiously added to 31 of hydrochloric acid in a small test-tube. Globulin casein, and albumen may all be present together in the urine. Gallic acid, Law son thinks, should not be given when casein is present, as it precipitates the latte