RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 123 sound, and heard only in inspiration, whereas the subcrepitant is moist and bubbling, however fine it may be, and is liable to be heard in expiration. Hall, C. Radclyffe, M.D.—On Pulse-Breath. Proceed, of Med.-Chir. Soc., vol. iv, No. i. Hall applies this term to an audible pulsation communicated to the breath as it issues from the mouth; the sound resembles a gentle gushing of the breath synchronous with each pulsation of the heart. He has met with it in two cases of tubercular cavities, and in one of cardiac disease. It depends probably either on cardiac impulse communicated directly to the walls of a cavity, or indirectly through the blood-vessels to the air- cells and passages. Marcet, W., M.D.—On a Simple and Efficient Method of performing Artificial Respiration. Proceed, of Med.-Chir. Soc, vol. iv, No. i. The apparatus employed consists of a bellows and a tube, the latter being secured in the larynx by the pressure of a small caoutchouc bag distended with ah", which surrounds the opening of the tube, and is itself inflated by means of a smaller tube ranning parallel to the larger. For a more detailed description, v. original. It is made by Blaise and Whicker, St. James Street. Inman, T.—On Therapeutics—Croup. Lond. Med. Rev., June, 1862. Inman hmits his treatment to moist waimth and opiates locally applied, nitrate of potash drink, and, if more decided measures are requisite, the most active medicine should be an ipecacuan emetic, which may be repeated once daily after there is certainty of the effusion of lyniph, " to squeeze as much as possible the mucus from the lungs and the fibrine from the trachea." Steel, mixed on the instant, with spt. ammon. co., should be the medicine after the first day is passed, and the body should be assiduously rubbed with oil to promote circulation and cutaneous aeration of the blood. He thinks the disease as amenable to correct treatment as are intermittents and agues. Poogiale.—On the Pulverization of Fluids. Bull, de l'Acad., Jan. 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 23. Poggiale finds that liquids pulverized by Sales-Giron's method do penetrate into the air-passages, but not in such quantity or with such facility that they can be employed in the cure of bronchial diseases. The process of pulverization probably lowers the temperature of the liquid. It also alters the chemical composition at least of some waters; those containing sulphuretted hydrogen lose on an average sixty per cent, of their sulphur; those containing sulphuret of sodium are but little changed. The question as to the therapeutic effect does not appear to be settled. Leared, A., M.D.—On the Differential Stethometer. Med. T. & Gaz., Aug. 2nd. This instrument consists of two dials, the indices of which arc moved by mechanism connected with tapes passing round both sides of the chest.