ItEPOKT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 372 weeks later, and the tumour almost; but not completely, returned, when menstruation again set in. Finally, by further use of this instrument, the use of the air-pessary being 'conjoined, the cavity of the uterus was restored to its natural shape, and menstruation resumed the natural four-weeks' type. Picaud.—On the Inflexions of the Uterus in a state of Vacuity. 8vo, Paris, 1862, pp. 168. By the term inflexion is meant such a change in the form of the uterus that the axis of the organ is flexed, and the fundus approaches the cervix. First, the author directs attention to Eouget's researches, demonstrating the presence of an erectile tissue around the uterus, and analogous to that of the penis; this tissue undergoes, according to Bouget, a regular erection during menstruation. This erection has the effect of lengthening the uterus as a whole. The author contends that, if the individual is not perfectly healthy, and the condition of the uterus, of the cervix, or of the uterine appendages, be not as usual, a slight bending of the organ easily occurs. He believes that iu all cases when menstruation occurs too soon after labour a great predisposition to retroflexion is thereby created; so also in cases when the woman does not suckle her child, and involution of the uterus is hindered. After abortions the same causes come into operation. Abortion is fre- quently also the consequence, and not the cause, of the flexion. In rare cases flexions are congenital. Compression of the uterus from above, or in other directions, may cause flexion. The condition of the uterine tissue is sometimes the cause, as when the organ is in a state of fatty degeneration, or softened and hypertrophied. The symptoms of those inflexions, and their treatment, receive next a, due share of attention. The author employs the sound as a means of diagnosis, and recommends the plan of Kiwisch—continuous wearing of an internal elevator—as the best, careful regard being at the same time paid to the compli- cations and to the whole condition of the patient. Arjteth.—On Flexions of the Uterus. Petersb. Med. Zt., i86i,p. 121. To understand the occurrence of flexions of the uterus, we must recollect that the upper part of the uterus is free, unsupported ; the lower part is fixed; if circumstances arise, the effect of which is to increase the size or weight of the upper part, or to diminish the fixed- ness of the lower part, then a predisposition to flexion is produced. Deficient restitution of the cellular tissue connecting the cervical and femoral portions of the uterus after delivery, and chronic catarrh of the uterus, are the two most common causes of flexion. The atrophy of the uterine walls at the seat of flexion is an effect, and not a cause. Relaxa- tion of the uterus, and everything leading to it, is a very important element in the etiology of flexions; this is a condition frequently fol- lowing on child-bed, especially when followed quickly by diseases of the sexual organs. Frequent abortions greatly tend to produce this result. Lateral deviations of the uterus are frequently observed, but do not give rise to much difficulty or Buffering. And, indeed, flexions in the anterior or posterior direction often exist without giving rise to marked