JIEPOKT ON SUltGEIlY. l.SS sometimes with a moderate fasligium, sometimes with a very high one, to 400 or 40"50; sometimes with a slow, sometimes with a rapid, defervescence ; no type at all can be traced in the longer attacks. When pus is rapidly formed, and a free exit can be procured without causing any great irri- tation, the fever immediately diminishes. Thus both the traumatic and secondary fevers arc connected with the local condition of inflammatory fluxion or congestion ; when suppuration takes place, the fever ceases. Hence it appears that whenever a patient, who has suffered an operation or other injury, is feverish beyond the eighth day, or commences again to be feverish after he has been free from it, it will be necessary to make a very accurate examination ; because in by far the great mass of cases such attacks are caused by local inflammatory processes around the wound, which by spreading may give rise to considerable danger. Effects of different Local Treatments on the Wound and on the Fever. The author considers it quite unnecessary to apply extreme cold or heat to a recent wound. He places every fresh wound by position or bandage (in fractures) in as perfect rest as possible, and covers it with a compress ivet with water, to relieve the feeling of tension which accompanies a perfectly exposed wound; at a later period the suppurating wounds are generally covered with a compress dipped in the chlorine solution, unless the granulations demand some special local means. Very important would it be to determine the value of ice or the water-bath in preventing inflammations around the wounded part. The author cannot pretend to fully settle these questions ; to assist some- what, however, he has made a series of comparative observations, one series of cases being treated with ice, another with the water-bath ; his object being especially to determine whether the treatment had any essential influence on the course of the traumatic fever, and whether it prevented secondary inflammations or other complications. Recent wounds treated by ice.—Under this heading he includes only those cases in which this treatment was steadily carried out, those cases in which the ice was constantly and freely applied till all the contused portions had been thrown off, till fever had been absent several days, and even till the granulations had begun to cicatrize. In the summer of 1859 ice was thus applied in twenty-five cases; the results were as follows : In 3 cases there occurred no fever. 6 „ „ traumatic fever, lasting 6 to 8 days. 2 moderate suppuration around the wound. 6 „ very important suppuration ; of these, three died from pytcmia, and in the rest the fever continued till the twentieth, twenty-second, fiftieth day, the ice being applied the same length of time. 4 M n diffuse phlegmon, and the patients died fiom septicemia. 2 „ trismus and tetanus. Single cases also occurred of lymphangitis and of erysipelas. It must be noted that among these twenty-five cases there were some of a very serious nature j eight of them ended in death, and five were in serious