RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 125 Wolff, Ph. H.—Stuttering, and its Cure by a New Method. Deutsche Klinik, Nos. 23, 24, 25. After an historical sketch of former methods, Wolff discusses the nature of the disorder, which he views as a spasmodic nerve affection belonging to the same class as strabismus and clubfoot. He notices also its close resemblance to chorea, and considers both as depending on the preponder- ance of the excito-motor over the cerebral system. As different lands of stuttering he considers, (1) that from defective action of the lungs ; (2) of the larynx ; (3) of the proper articulating organs, especially the tongue. The last form is the most frequent. He also admits Colombat's distinc- tions of labio-choreic or chronic, and gutturo-tetanic, or tonic stuttering. Wolff's treatment consists in the inhalation of (medicated) vapours of a proper temperature, in inunction, especially along the course of the nerves involved, in the strengthening of voluntary efforts, and in educating the patient to the proper way of pronouncing the several consonants. In obstinate cases he advises also division of the hypoglossal nerve in the neck. Beau and Gondoni.—J. de Med. & de Chir. Pratiq., vol. xxxiii, p. 440. Affirm the efficacy of sulphuret of potassium baths in asthma. They not only relieve in the attacks, but prevent their recurrence. About thirty baths shoidd be taken, one every other day. Each bath should last twenty minutes, and be at the temperature of 86° F. Kdborn and Villaret.—On Pulmonary Melanosis. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 116, p. 55. Villaret's conclusions are the following:—(1) The black colouring of the lungs in almost all old men engaged in coal-works or in polishing copper, depends on the accumulation of carbon in these organs. (2) Tins carbon is derived from air loaded with it which the individuals habitually inhale. (3) The quantity of this colouring-inatter is proportionate to the intensity and duration of the cause ; in slight degrees the accumulation of carbon remains latent, while in considerable it causes the usual thoracic symptoms. (4) Finely-powdered carbon penetrates through the intestinal canal, (1) into the lacteal vessels, and deposits itself in the mesenteric glands ; (2) into the mesenteric veins, and is carried with the current of the blood of the vena porta? through the liver and spleen, the vena cava inferior, right cavities of the heart and pulmonary artery to the lungs, where it is deposited in the parenchyma and in the bronchial glands. (5) The carbonaceous particles remain only a certain time in the" liver and spleen, but in the mesenteric glands and lungs they continue permanently. It appears that when rabbits are made to inhale carbonaceous matter this is found visibly as far as the bifurcation of the trachea, and even to a slight amount m the bronchi, provided that the examination is made immediately alter the conclusion of the experiment. If, however, the examination is riot made for four days the respiratory passages are quite free from any Mack deposit, evidently in consequence of the expulsive action of the cilia When carbon was given for some days to rabbits with their food it was tound in the mesenteric glands, liver, spleen, venous blood, and interstices