MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 103 certain letters. It is only in rare cases, and in the advanced st age, that progressive muscular atrophy is associated with progressive muscular paralysis. Muller considers that the real seat of the disease is in that part of the encephalon which regulates the articulation of words, and the voluntary part of swallowing. Eemak.—On the Curability of Progressive Muscular Atrophy. (Esterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., viii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, Eemak records a case which had commenced a year before it came under his notice, and had got worse, in spite of local faradisation of the affected muscles. Warm baths and douches to the neck, which at the beginning had been the seat of violent pain, had afforded some transitory relief. A constant current from a battery of fifty or sixty elements was first passed through the paralysed parts of the left arm once or twice a-day, for fifteen minutes at a time. Some improvement was obtained, not only in this, but also in the right arm, which was not galvanised. The size of the muscles, however, did not increase, and those of the neck and shoulders had wasted more, and fibrillary contractions were more apparent after fourteen days' treatment. Eemak then proceeded to apply the current to the neck region, which speedily improved the muscular power, and after forty seances, in the course of three months recovery was almost complete. Improvement was most rapid when the current was passed along the cervical sympathetic. The metacarpal bones, which had been much swelled, diminished in size. Eemak concludes (1) that the disease is not one of the muscles, but of the cervical part of the cord, and sometimes also of the sympathetic ganglia; (2) that it is of inflammatory nature, and requires at the commencement local depletion, and warm douches to the cervical spine; (3) the induced current is injurious, the constant may, under favourable circumstances, obtain a cure, and in others an arrest of the disease. Hemptenmacher, C.—On the Etiology of Progressive Muscular Atrophy. Inaug. diss. Berlin, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, p. 307. Hemptenmacher reports several cases of much interest. The principal points they illustrate are the hereditary tendency of the disease, and its frequent limitation to the male sex. In one autopsy, the anterior spinal roots were found much atrophied, the posterior to a less degree; the pos- terior columns degenerated, with corpora amylacea among them. Empis, G. S.—On Advancing Muscular Weakness of Old Men. Arch. Gcncr. 5° ser., xix, April, May, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrbuch, vol. 115, p. 174. ^ The pathological state consists of amvniia, giddiness, disordered sensi- bility^ subjective debility, and in some cases marasmus. Its course is sometimes acute, sometimes chronic. Death may ensue from syncope. Insufficient food and depressing circumstances are the chief causes. Treat- ment is by iron and strychnia, steadily persevered in for weeks or months. Short warm baths and gent le stimulation of the skin, are also useful.