REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. condition was found to be very difficult, but tbe final results were perfectly conclusive. Anotbcr question of importance relates to the refrigeration of the liquid in the act of pulverization, which sometimes amounts to 230 Fahrenheit. This arises partly from the rapid evaporation, which is determined by the multiplication of the liquid surface, partly from the loss of temperature consequent on the expan- sion of the compressed air. To remedy this inconvenience, it is necessary that the air of the chamber should be saturated, and that its temperature should be somewhat higher than that of the water to be pulverized. As to the chemical changes which accompany pulverization, the reporter regards it as certain that all waters which contain hydro- sulphuric acid lose about 60 per cent, of this ingredient, whereas those which contain sulphuret of sodium are not altered. As regards the therapeutical value of pulverization, it appears to have been used with signal success by M. Auphan in the treatment of chronic pharyngitis and laryngitis, and in certain chronic non-tubercular pulmonary affections. These results have been confirmed by Trous- seau and Demarquay, the former of whom expressed, in the discussion which followed the reading of the report, a decided opinion, founded on his own observations, as to the efficacy of the method, particularly in affections of the larynx. DietT-DOKNE.—On the Pulverization of Medicated Liquids. Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 30th. The author gives a complete, though short, description of the methods of pulverization. He expresses no opinion as to its value in bronchial and pulmonary affections, but admits its great efficacy in diseases of the larynx and trachea. Auphan.—On Pulverization at Euzet-les-Bains, and its Therapeutical Effects. Bull, de PAcad., April 30th, 1861. Beian.—On the Effects of Respiring Pulverized Mineral Waters. Gaz. Hebdom., April 5th and 12th, 1861. Champouillon.—On the Pulverization of Mineral Waters. Gaz. des Hop., June 6th, 1861. Delore.—On Pulmonary Inhalation in a Therapeutical Point of View. Gaz. Med. de Lyon., Sept. 1st and 16th, 1861. Moura-Bourouillott.—On the Inspiration and Penetration of Pulver- ized Liquids. Gaz. des Hop., Oct. 24th, 1861. Champouillon.—On the " Dicte respiratoire." Gaz. des Hop., Oct. 31st, 1861. BATHS. Kirejeef.— On the Physiological Action of Cold and Warm Sitz-laths in Health. Virchow, vol. xxii, p. 496. The author has prosecuted further the important inquiries of Lehmann and Bocker on the same subject. Two healthy soldiers were submitted to experiment. The following was the mode of investigation: —For four days, during which no baths were taken, determinations were made of the weight, temperature, pulse, number of respirations,