GENERAL SYSTEM. 45 Hjaltelin, J., M.D.—On the disinfecting Treatment of Typhus, Eruptive and Enteric. Edin. Med. Jour., Sept. 1862. During the years 1858—1861, Iceland was visited by three most malig- nant diseases, viz., typhus and typhoid fever, dysentery, and sporadic cholera. In 1856 and 1857 an epizootic prevailed among the sheep and a prodigious number were killed to prevent the spread of the disease. Their flesh being badly salted and stored up, produced, in many houses, an insup- portable odour, and soon typhus and typhoid fever broke out and extended by contagion, so that in two years no less than 900 cases out of a population of about 10,000 inhabitants were registered. The severe cold of the winter checked the disease, but in some parishes one-tenth of the inhabit- ants perished, owing to the entire deficiency of medical aid. He describes at length the various stages of typhus and typhoid fevers. The eruption of typhus appeared two or three days after the occurrence of shivering, and con- sisted of small roundish or irregular spots of a dingy-red colour, closely crowded : together, and somewhat resembling flea-bites, but without a dark point in the centre. It was observed first on the chest and neck, afterwards on the ■ shoulders, forearms, and legs. When this eruption was of a bluish or dark l colour, and formed large irregular spots, the case generally proved to be malignant, but when the spots were small and of a brownish or dingy-red 1 hue, the prognosis was far more favourable. The third stage was characte- | rised by extreme nervous depression, the urine contained large quantities of urea. The fourth or critical stage of recovery commenced on the ninth, eleventh, fourteenth, or seventeeth day. In enteric typhus (typhoid), the third stage was very similar to that of typhus, but most of the patients wi re tormented with diarrhoea, the evacuations being dark green or yellow- ochre, extremely foetid, and often sangiunolent. Others were affected with tympanitis and constipation, constant hiccough and convulsions, and incontinence of mine. In this stage small rosy-red spots appeared on the skm, especially on the abdomen, breast, and arms ; and some few patients had sudamina, a symptom which was ahnost invariably indicative of a fatal termination. The pulse was very weak and frequent, and the pulsation of the heart irregular. In a few cases softening of its muscular texture occurred previously to dissolution. Under the head of treatment Hjaltelin states, that he first gave a fair trial to the expectant, which included free ventilation, ilir use of deodorants and disinfectants, a supporting diet, oleaginous fric- tions to the right iliac region when tender, and rice-water or decoction of salcp ui diarrhoea, and musk in nervous derangement. With the result of this treatment, the author was by no means satisfied. He then argues in favour of the identity or nearly complete identity of typhus and typhoid, both as to their symptoms and causes. He is very doubtful, whether the distinc- tion can be maintained between the rose-coloured or rubeolate and mulberry eruption. A good deal of stress is laid on the specific odour exhaled from parents affected with either form of fever, and on the circumstance that no real difference can be detected between them. The treatment which Hjaltelin approves, consists of purgatives in the commencement, free ventilation the destruction of all offensive odours, the use of disinfectant medicines inter- nally 111 a bold and consequent manner, and support by easily-digestible food, calomel in doses of 9j or gr. x. was given every day, or every second