129 UESrilUTOUY SYSTEM. the earth, ahout three per cent, of all diseases are due to the same cause, and two per cent, of all cases of disease in hospitals. As to its geogra- phical distribution, it appears that it is confined to no latitude j it is not absolutely more frequent in any one climate or latitude than m another. On the contrary, places closely adjacent, and having similar climates, show very considerable differences in the frequency of pneumoma. As to the influential conditions, sex does not appear to go for much; taking the whole population of Europe, there are six deaths from this disease among males, to five amongst females. Bad hygiene increases the amount of pneumonia, and so does imprisonment. Muscular exertion in the open air, with a regular life, and being inured to the weather, seems one of the surest means to ward off pneumonia. "With regard to the frequency of pneumonia, it is subject to periodic and non-periodic fluctuations ; it is much more frequent in some years than in others; '40, '42, '44, '49, '51, '53, '58, were pneumonic years, but not equal to '47; these varia- tions show themselves especially in the female sex. As to age, it appears that pneumonia in children is often by no means parallel to pneumonia in adults; the disease may be epidemic in the one, and not at all so in the other. The prevalence of pneumonia coincides very much with that of typhus. In Europe about two-thirds of the fatal cases each year occur in winter and spring, from December 1st to May 31st; and the remaining third in summer and autumn. The mortality is nearly the same in winter and spring; it is lowest in the summer. May in Eastern Germany is a dangerous month; in Paris the maximum of cases is in April; in Switzerland in March. Kiittlinger (Mittheil. d. Physik. Med. Soc. zu Erlangen, 1858) describes the influence of the weather on the general mortality and on thoracic inflammations in the city and district of Erlangen, for the years 1820—1856. The following are some of his conclusions:—Summer and autumn, prevailing moisture, west winds, and a moderate temperature, diminish, while winter and spring, east vrinds, and extreme variations of temperature, increase both the general mortality and the thoracic inflammations. Cold seasons are more un- favourable than warm ones. The variations of the atmospheric density seem to be quite unimportant. Huss' observations in Stockholm during sixteen years go to prove that pneumonia is not more frequent in northern than in more southern latitudes, and that it is not much affected by epidemic influences, as those which give rise to ague, cholera, or influenza. The disease was more frequent some years than in others; it was especially so in '49, '51, '55. It prevailed chiefly in the spring, and most in the month of May. Sudden variations of temperature appear to be the predisposing, and a chill the exciting, cause. The disease was three times as frequent in males as in females (talcing the hospital population); it is returned in the proportion of one to ten in all diseases (internal ?—Ed.). The mortality amounted to 1074 per cent. The average time of stay in hospital was 1976 days during the eight years when venesection was employed ; during the next eight, when it was omitted, 17-20. Bamberger finds the mortality in females almost twice that in males : and while between the years ten to fifty it is only 6-4 per cent., it rises after the age of fifty to 38*2 per cent. Schroten records 9