256 REPORT ON SURGERY. TUMOURS. Mr. Moore.—On the value of pulsation in the diagnosis of tumours ('Lancet,' 1862, i, 453, 536). The author gives a number of cases, with remarks, of tumours that pulsate, but are not aneurisms, and of tumours that do not pulsate, yet are aneurisms: among others the following,—a man was in St. Bartholomew's Hospital witli an nnmistakeable popliteal aneurism. One morning the whole knee and adjoining halves of the thigh and leg quickly became greatly swollen and very tense, the foot livid and cold, the pain much increased, and the pulsation entirely gone. Within six hours from the time at which this change in the condition of the limb had commenced, Mr. Lawrence tied the femoral artery, and the mau got well. Dr. Wilks.—Lecture on tumours ('Med. Tim. and Gnz.,' 1862, ii, 83, 193). The great difference between physiological and pathological forma- tion appears to be, that nearly all new growths are of the simplest com- position, not putting on the form of the complex organs, near which they may be placed, but consisting principally of cells and fibres. Three kinds of growths may be distinguished, the malignant, the semi-malignant, and the innocent, and are characterised by the various degrees of develop- ment and of admixture of cells and fibres; just in proportion, as the active parts of the cell, the nuclei, are alone produced, so is the growth eminently malignant, and disposed to propagate; and just also in pro- portion as the growth is prone to fibrillate, so is it disposed to be innocent. Nothing in the body could be imagined more of a malignant nature than this—an objectless cell-growth. This would be true, did the cell have no particular features of its own, but resemble the simple embryonic cell, from which the tissues spring. Dr. Wilks thinks that this is the case, and that the so-called cancer-cell is no more than ftn embryonic, cell. The malignancy appears to diminish, in proportion as the cells become more fully developed. The active principle of growth lying in the nucleus, it is clear that the more the tumour is composed of nuclei, the more malig- nant is its nature, and the better formed the cell-wall, so is the growth less malignant, and so on according to the further development of the cell-wall. An angular or caudate cell shows a slower growth, and that the tumour has a more healthy tendency; should the cell develop still further and become pointed at each end, it would show that the tumour, of which it was the constituent element, was of a still less malignant cha- racter. Next are the cases where more of the fibrous element exists, and the tumour is consequently less malignant; such are the fibro-nucleated, which often return after removal; also, varieties of this, as the collonema or gelatinous sarcoma, composed of long delicate tendril-like filaments with oval nuclei, and which also are sometimes recurrent—these may be called soft recurrent, while those previously mentioned are firm recurrent tumours. The growths composed of simple fibre like that of areolar tissue are innocent. It appears, as already mentioned, that the complex structures cannot be reproduced; hut if a tumour should spring up in contact with some of the less complex parts, then we find it modified according to the nature of these parts. Thus we find that a growth on the skin may be composed