CIEC ULATOItY SYSTEM. 107 ness is consequently no proof of the organic nature of a murmur. One of the most important characters by which a direct aortic, is distinguished from a direct pulmonic, murmur, is, that the former is generally propagated into the carotid. Comparison of the aortic and pulmonic second sounds will aid in determining the amount of damage done to the aortic valve. (3) Aortic regurgitant murmur. The intensity of this murmur is no proof of the amount of insufficiency. (4) Mitral systolic (alias regurgitant) murmur. Flint believes that a mitral systohc murmur may or may not be regurgitant. If limited to the heart's area it is usually not, if diffused over the left side it is always, regurgitant. The aortic second sound is weakened, and the pul- monic intensified in proportion to the amount of mitral regurgitation, or obstruction. He gives some instances in which a murmur supposed to be mitral systolic, existed during life, where after death no valvu- lar lesions were found. He suspects that in some of these the murmur was really tricuspid. (5) Mitral direct murmur. This is distinguished from the systolic by occurring prior to the systole, and from the aortic regurgitant by commencing after the second sound, and by continiving with its greatest intensity up to the commencement of the first sound. The mitral direct is also heard loudest at or a little within the apex, the aortic more to the right. The former may be associated with a mitral systolic, but is cpiite as often alone. As to the pathological import of this murmur, Flint's experience is, that it occurs especially in cases of great contraction of the mitral orifice forming the buttonhole slit. It may, however, be produced by mere roughening of the surface of the valves without contraction, or even without any lesion at all, if there be at the same time aortic regurgitation. Flint believes that the rapid reflux of blood into the ventricle^ floats up the mitral curtains, which are then thrown into vibration by the current driven in by the con- traction of the auricles. He approves of Gairdner's proposal to designate the murmur 1 auricular systohc' Leudet.—On Aortitis terminated by Suppuration, and its Influence in the production of Purulent Infection. Arch. Gener., March, 1861, p. 575. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Eev., Jan. 1862. Leudet, from an examination of his own and others' cases, arrives at the following conclusions. Aortitis affecting the external cellular and middle coats gives rise hi some rare cases to the formation of an abscess in the same part. This abscess does not determine the alteration of the internal membrane, the coagulation of the blood, or pseudo-membranous deposit on the inner surface. It is generally consecutive to intense inflammation ofthe heart or artery, issuing in disorganisation of the affected parts. When the aortic abscess communicates with the interior of the vessel pyemia is the result. Geigel.—Case of Rupture of the Aorta. Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr. ii, 2, 1861 Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 113, p. 160. The patient was a boy, tet. 14, healthy up to the date of his death, winch occurred during the night after half-an-hour's suffering with abdominal pan, and collapse. The rupture occurred close to the origin of the Left sub- clavian. The outer coat was separated from the middle down to within an