REPORT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. 481. formed part of a general system of oppression to which he had been lone subjected. During the whole of his life he was addicted to writing ephemeral pamphlets and doggerel verses, some of which were immensely popular, lie died at the age of 73, retaining to the last his poetical and homicidal tendencies. The author points out that, in accordance with the well-known medico-legal principle laid down by the fifteen judges in 1843, in answer to the questions on the subject of responsibility0sub- mitted to them by the House of Lords, this madman would certainly have been considered sane. The judges then stated that before a plea of insanity can be admitted, undoubted evidence must be adduced, not merely that the accused is of diseased mind, but that at the time of com- mitting the act he was not conscious of right or wrong. In the early part of his history the habits and demeanour of tbis lunatic were those of a sane and intelligent man, and he was perfectly aware of the criminality of his acts, so that there can be no doubt that a jury of ordinary men would have regarded him as fully responsible for the consequences of his blood-thirsty attempts, had they been successful. Payen.—Medico-legal Report on the mental state of J. F. Pagez, convicted of the murder of his two children. Ann. Med.-psychol., vol. viii, p. 41. Pagez, aged 56, was accused of having murdered his two daughters on the night of the 5th of July, 1861. The author was called upon to determine whether at the moment of the crime " he was affected with a monomania which prevented him from appreciating the moral nature of his act." Pagez lost his wife in 1857, with whom he had lived on terms of constant affection. Since her death lie had devoted himself to his family, con- sisting of a son and four daughters, two of whom were married and two lived with him, the elder having charge of his money, keeping his accounts, and enjoying his entire confidence. He had never been considered insane, but it appeared that he had given evidence of eccentricity. In 1852, conse- quently on the loss of a law-suit, he had on one occasion left his house without motive, wandered about the country, sleeping in the open air in winter, and living on farm produce that he had pilfered, for which he was at that time arrested and imprisoned. During the year preceding the murders he had lost his health, and had become incapable of exertion. He kept much in bed, and became melan- choly and morose, but never expressed any ill-will either towards his children or others. As time went on the desire of solitude grew stronger, and along with this the homicidal impulse gradually took possession of his mind. " Towards the end of February," said he, " the idea of killing my children first came to me. Still my own master, I was unable to sleep. I felt a weight on the stomach (placing his hand on the epigas- trium) ; I had headache ; I could not eat; I forgot even to take snuff, which was so indispensable to me." This state of things continued, with occasional remissions, until, according to his own relation, he rose three successive nights from his bed to kill his children. "The first night, 1 went out into the yard to try to absent myself from this bad business, and, after half an hour, came in again tranquil. The second