387 DISEASES OF WOMEN. complained of, the clamp is to be removed in a few hours. Among the preliminary measures to be adopted the author attaches importance, in choosing the time for the operation, to the presence of certain atmo- spheric conditions. "When the atmosphere is low and heavy, with an absence or deficiency of ozone, in that condition we usually call de- pressing, the operation is not to be performed. The cases operated on in the London Surgical Home have been nineteen. Of these, thirteen recovered, six died. The duration of the disease in the successful cases was from four months to six years, in the unsuccessful cases from two to ten years. Other particulars respecting age, &c, are given. In five of the successful cases tapping had been performed from one to three times ; four of the unsuccessful cases were tapped from one to six times. The incision made varied from three to seven inches in length. The tumours were multilocular in eleven successful cases and in four fatal cases, unilocular in two successful and in one fatal case. In one (fatal) tumour more or less solid. Adhesions were present in all but four cases. Chloroform was given in all; in two cases it had to be discon- tinued ; in two ether was given at end of operation. The pedicle was retained outside in all but two cases. Latterly the wound had been closed by silver-wire sutures, simply twisted. The causes of death in the six fatal cases were—in two, clearly the operation; in one, that of the solid tumour—there was much old disease found ; in one, that of an old drinker, the Liver was softened, and there was ascites as well as ovarian tumour; in two the patients died of diarrhoea, in one of these latter there was cancer of the duodenum, not suspected during life. Wells, T. Spencer.—Clinical Remarks on Seven Cases of Ovariotomy at the Samaritan Hospital. Med. Times and Graz., July 12th and 26th, 1862. The first case did well. She had been tapped twelve times, her age was 50, and there were extensive adhesions. The second case was that of a single woman, set. 30, with a multilocular ovarian cyst, filling the whole abdomen up to the false ribs on both sides. Duration, two years. The tumour consisted of an immense number of very small cysts, with very thin walls. The tumour was broken up by the hand, and removed. A portion of adhering colon was drawn out with the tumour, and the adhesions separated by the hand. Pedicle secured by wire- rope ; ovarian fluid escaped into the peritoneal cavity, and this was not, contrary to the operator's usual practice, sponged out. The patient did not rally, was sick and restless, and died twenty-nine hours after the operation. There were proofs, post-mortem, of general diffuse peritonitis, many coils of intestine being pasted together by recent lymph, and a pasty layer of the thicker part of the ovarian fluid covered the peritoneum. The author states that he blames himself for thus leaving the fluid; that sponging is certainly better avoided if possible, and that all possible precautions should be taken to prevent ovarian fluid or blood from getting into the peritoneal cavity. Perfectly new, soft, small sponges should be used when there is such escape of fluid or blood, aud the whole of such fluid should be very carefully removed. The next case, that of a young woman, sat. 30, who seemed