PREGNANCY AND CHILD-BED. 397 cervical vertebras little affected. From upper dorsal vertebras down- wards whole spinal column greatly distorted. An immense gibbosity between shoulders; ribs much compressed; the chest fallen towards pelvis, so that the lower ribs had sunk below and inside the crests of the ilia. Pelvis centripetally compressed on all sides; acetabula squeezed inwards close to sacral promontory, carrying horizontal rami of pubis backwards, and throwing out symphysis into the beak-like form cha- racteristic of mollities ossium ; outlet of pelvis so narrowed that with difficulty can two fingers be introduced. The thoracic, abdominal, and pelvic cavities notably diminished in size; the bodies of the vertebra? evidently much reduced in bulk ; hence the falling down of the trunk. The urine was particularly examined while the disease was progressing. On one occasion the quantity of urea per cent, was found to be 26-80 (healthy urine 44*50), uric acid no (healthy 1*50), extractive 39*01 (healthy 24*20), alkaline chlorides iv6o (healthy 10*25), alkaline sulphates 8*34 (healthy 12*35), alkaline phosphates 7*83 (healthy 5*40), earthy phosphates 5*32 (healthy i*8o) ('Analysis of Dr. Letheby'). At other times quantity of urea much larger. In two other specimens the solid parts were respectively—urea, 51*7 and 53*8 ; uric acid, sugar, and extractives, 25*1 and 18*8 ; alkaline chlorides, sulphates, and phosphates, 21*2 and 24*6; earthy phosphates, 2*0 and 2*8 per cent.; the specific gravities were 1024 and 1014, and the solid matters per 1000 were 38*4 and 21*4 respectively. The quantity was three and a half pints in twenty-four hours. Generally it was found that during the active stage of the disease there was a large excess of urea, of alkaline and earthy phosphates, and of extractive, and almost constantly thei'e were small quantities of sugar. In a specimen examined after arrest of the disease the specific gravity was 1014. 1000 grains evaporated left 24*5 of solid matter. The solid matter contained 7*0 saline, and the latter 3*2 of phosphates; urea was 17 per 1000. The author observes that the establishment of a form or stage of the disease characterised by the preservation of a yielding condition of the pelvic bones is one of very great interest in relation to the question of the necessity for the Cassarean operation, and shows, by quotations from several sources, that in certain cases of osteomalacia, where contraction was so great that there was apparent necessity for the above operation, the pelvic bones gave way to pressure of various kinds from within, and the passage was thereby rendered sufficiently wide for the delivery. The author conjectures that the dilatability of the osteomalacic pelvis may be increased during pregnancy, and especially about the period of labour. In the case above related there was no pregnancy. He contests the opinion of Kilian, that the disease is not curable ; and as regards Kalian's definition of the disease, it is, he considers, excessively rigorous. Kilian limits it to a disease " which proceeds from the pelvis, or which is, at least,.in early succession concentrated upon this part." Finally, the benefit derived by the patient in the case related is attributed to the cod-liver oil. Pajot.—On tlie Lochia. Gaz. des Hop., Feb. 25th, 1862. The author gives the results of some recent observations on the