202 REPORT OX SURGERY. number of cases of pyaemia in the same number of severely wounded, whether treated in hospital or private practice ; it is quite possible that the number of deaths would be the same. Prom a rather extensive know- ledge of what was taking place in Berlin, he is convinced that there are in private practice very few cases of severe injuries or of serious operations such as occur every week in a large hospital, and that of these few a large proportion die from pyaemia. Probably conservatism is occasionally carried too far in the present day ; in many cases the injury is so great, the con- tusion of the parts so severe, that extensive inflammation and far-spreading suppuration will inevitably occur ; in these cases it is seen, when too late, that a primary amputation should have been performed ; the patients sink exhausted by the fever and suppuration, or possibly from metastatic inflammations. Impure (hospital) air has only a single effect on the tolerably healthy, that of exciting gastric disturbances, with diarrhoea, as a result of which there ensue general lassitude, a feverish condition, paleness of the coun- tenance, loss of appetite, even long-continued gastric or intestinal catarrh. A sudden change in the accustomed food, habits, &c, may have a similar effect. Such conditions are sufficient to explain the bad symptoms pre- sented by certain wounds without the addition of any miasm ; in some such way hygienic defects, such as want of ventilation or of exercise, may cause or increase suppuration, and the latter, again, may be the cause of the pyaemia; but this explanation is essentially different from the opinion that the pyaemia is directly induced by some peculiar state of the air. Such an indirectly pernicious effect of a residence within an hospital is especially noticeable in infants. Terrestrial influences.—Effluvia from the soil may in our climate pos- sibly cause dysentery., typhus, or intermittent fever. If an hospital is built where such effluvia exist, of course the patients will be liable to such diseases. Every one who has studied in Vienna knows that there is one wing of the general hospital there in which every fresh patient has an attack of dysentery ; at all events such was the case in 1851. Epidemic influences.—-There is another series of the so-called hospital diseases which is of a purely epidemic nature ; such is especially hospital gangrene (for proofs, see Pitha, ' Prager Viertelj.,' 1851, and Fock, ' Deutsche Klinik,'18 56); such also are croup and diphtheritis. Other affec- tions, such as thecal inflammations, may occasionally occur epidemically. Accordingly, in the author's opinion, there are three distinct sources for the so-called "hospital miasma :"—1. Bad air in a badly ventilated hospital. 2. Terrestial effluvia. 3. Epidemic influences. These are three causes which should be especially kept in view, and which we should endeavour specially to counteract. W. Roser refers, in the ' Arch, d Heilk.' (1862, p. 368), to Billroth s paper, and points out that in the same hospital, with the same class of patients, one year there may not be a single case of pyaemia, at other times it may commit frightful ravages, a fact proving its specific nature and miasmatic origin. , G. Zimmermann states ('Deutsche Klinik,' 1862, p. 400), in some remarks on Billroth's paper, that the temperature of the inflamed part is always one or two degrees higher than that of the rest of the body. 1