KEVORT ON MIDWIl'EUY, ETC. 35G cient. To facilitate the introduction of the flaccid hag into the cervix uteri, a small pouch is at tached outside, to receive the end of the uterine sound, which, guided hy the finger of the left hand, applied to the os uteri, serves to push the hag into the cervical canal.] The first condi- tion to he fulfilled is the full dilatation of the os uteri; this may ho called the preparatory stage. The second is the excitation of the uterus ; this is the provocative stage. The last is the expulsion or extraction of the foetus—the accelerative or concluding stage. The first stage is accomplished by dilating the vagina, which is effected by one of the caoutchouc dilators, distended with water. The smallest bag is then passed into the cervix uteri, care being taken that the terminal, bulging part shall pass through the os uteri internum. When water is thrown in, the dilator is thus secured by its shape in situ, and the eccentric pressure bears on the whole cervical canal, especially upon the two points of greatest resistance, the ossa internum and externum. This stage ought not, as a rule, to occupy less than three or four hours, so as to resemble as nearly as possible the natural process. When the dilata- tion is complete, the great obstacle to delivery is overcome. If expulsive pains arise, the way is clear ; if not, they must be excited. The mem- branes may first be ruptured, and this should be done generally before full dilatation of the cervix, the dilator to be replaced before the liquor amnii has drained away. If expulsive pains do not now set in, the accelerative measures are to be had recourse to; these are the forceps and turning ; the long forceps may be used if the head present, and it be possible. If turning be had recourse to, which is a final and sure resource, we may carry this out by the method of combined external and internal manipulation, which dispenses with the necessity for pass- ing the hand through the cervix uteri or above the brim of the pelvis, which latter may be distorted. To illustrate the value of the method described cases are then related. Thus a case is given, the preceding history of which was as follows :—In the first labour attended there were convulsions, complicated with contraction of the pelvis. Perforation was had recourse to ; the second time also craniotomy was necessary; in the third, labour was brought on at seven months, by use of sponge- tent, vaginal and uterine douches, ergot, &c. The child was living, but the operation extended over several days. In the next pregnancy the intra-nterine douche was employed at seven months, and the vagina dilated by the caoutchouc bag. The dilatation of the eervix was effected next day by water pressure, and turning by the double method employed. Here the labour had still been tedious. The last labour is next described. March 25th was fixed for the operation. At 5 p.m. the vagina was expanded by the medium-sized dilator, introduced for ten minutes, after which the os uteri admitted the tips of two fingers ; membranes were then ruptured ; some liquor amnii followed. At 7 p.m. seen a^ain. A good deal of liquor amnii had drained away, but the os was not more dilated, and there was no pain. The medium-sized dilator was placed in the cervix, distended, and left in forty minutes, at the end of which time it was found to have slipped into the uterus; it was replaced, and distension renewed. At 10 p.m. the os was the size of the rim of a wineglass. Turning was now employed, the forceps being