99 PSYCHI ATltIK. Castiglione, C—Statistical Report respecting the Insane in Lombardy in the Year 1855. Gazz. Lornb. 13, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 114, P ^3 The proportion of the insane, including idiots and cretins, to the whole population is 1 : 1136, that of the females being 1 in 1170, and that of the males 1 in 1106. The total number of insane is 3333, of whom 837 are cretins, and 148 idiots. Of the former no less than 730 belong to the mountainous district of the Valtelline, with a population of 50,610. The reporter, Finkelnburg, remarks that the tendency of one or other sex to be most affected by insanity varies in different countries and at different periods, according to the habits, education, political and religious condition of the population. In the different districts of Lombardy the proportion of the insane to the whole population varies much, in the Valtelline being ns 1 : 716, in the Milan district 1 1940, and in the marshy, malarious district of Mantua 1 : 1622. The cases are grouped as mania 912 (428 m., 484 f.), melancholia 504 (268 m., 236 f.), and dementia 1070 (599 m., 471 f.). Cases of monomania are probably included under the head of mania. Brierre de Boismont.—On Hallucinations in Insanity. Med. Critic and . Psychol. J., April 1862. The hallucinations of mania are more frequent than those of acute delirium, but illusions, either alone or combined with hallucinations, are the predominant sensorial phenomena. The preponderance of illusions is due to the circumstance that, although the cohesion of ideas is more decided in mania, the faculty of attention is seriously impaired, and the imagination is therefore continually the sport of external impressions. The hallucinations and illusions of mania are often numerous, continual, confused, and changeable. The most frequent are those of hearing and sight. Hallucinations and illusions of all the senses are more frequent in this form of madness than in others. It is not always easy in cases of mania to distinguish hallucinations from illusions, not merely on account of the mobility of the impressions and want of attention, but also because of the existence of real sensations. The want of fixity in the impressions produces the most perplexing oppositions and contradictions ; the hallucina- tions and illusions themselves possess also a character of general inco- herence. The physiology of hallucinations and illusions furnishes materials for their clearer comprehension. The frequency of illusions in mania is due to the want of attention. Any land of noise may give rise to illusions of hearing; those of sight are more specially characterised by changes of person. The illusions of touch, smell, and taste are generally of a painful and disagreeable nature. Hallucination and illusion may precede and give rise to mania, or may be replaced by it, the latter being but a transforma- tion. . Illusions change sometimes to hallucinations, and vice versa. Hal- lucinations, though generally primitive in mania, are sometimes sym- ptomatic. Hallucinations are of great importance from a medico-legal point of view, for they are often the cause of acts of violence, attempted theft, incendiarism, murder, suicide, &c.