INORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 437 becomes somewhat accelerated. In the mean time the body gains weight, and other signs of increased nutrition present themselves. The author found that these actions were exercised in an equal degree by all the preparations of iron, so that one could be substituted for another without any difference in the result. In commenting on these results, the author observes that, considering the effect of chalybeates on the temperature of the body and the excre- tion of urea, and the fact (of which he records several examples) that dropsical effusions often disappear during their use, a nutritive action must be conceded to them. What is the mode of this action is a ques- tion of more uncertainty. Its explanation cannot lie in the increase either of the mass of blood or of the corpuscles, for such changes could only take place gradually. JSTor can it be attributed to the acceleration of the pulse, for it begins at a period antecedent to that at which this acceleration is first observed. The function of respi- ration is wholly unaffected by steel preparations, and can therefore afford no solution to the question. The author regards it as most probable that iron acts mainly on the contractile elements of the capillaries, by which the degree of tension of the walls of these vessels is controlled. By this agency he thinks that it governs the diffusion of material between the capillary circula- tion and the elements of the surrounding living tissues. Arsenic. Hejiapath.—On the Arsenical Impurities in Medicinal Bismuth, with a mode of Purification. Lancet, Dec. 13th. The author has found in various specimens of insoluble nitrate and carbonate of bismuth, proportions of arsenic varying from to By boiling either preparation with solution of caustic soda or potash, the arsenic may readily be removed. Although the proportion is too minute to affect the therapeutic value of the drug, the adulteration is of great importance in relation to cases of suspected chronic poisoning by arsenic, in which bismuth is so likely to be used as a remedy. "Wilks.—Poisoning by half an ounce of Arsenic ; Death; ecchi/mosed spots in the interior of the heart. Med. Times, Jan. 18th. Dr. "Wilks has observed endocardiae eeehymosis in all the cases of arsenical poisoning which have come under his notice at Gary's Hos- pital. In the case related, this appearance W'as observed in a very marked degree. About half of the internal surface of the left ven- tricle was thus affected. There was a large, purple patch on the septum, another immediately beneath the mitral valve, and the muscular columns were spotted. The other appearances were characteristic of poisoning by arsenious acid. 0 FEEGtTB.—On Arsenical Poisoning. Lancet, June 7th. The author relates three cases in which general loss of health and " depression of the vital powers" appeared to result from the occupation of rooms papered with arsenical hangings. 29