MA11RIAGES OF CONSANGUINITY. 497 determining the comparative number of infirm persons among the progeny of marriages between blood relations and others. Among the infirmities which have been attributed to this cause be has selected congenital deaf- ness and dumbness as being most easily ascertained and investigated. In France (the only country in which the necessary facts have been re- corded) it is found that consanguineous marriages (between cousins german, uncles and nieces, aunts and nephews, and the children of cousins german) constitute about 2 per cent, of the whole number. With this proportion as a standard of comparison, M. Boudin investigated the family history of the deaf and dumb asylums of Paris. He found in a total of q>J inmates, that 20 were children of unknown parentage, 8 of parents of doubtful consanguinity, 48 of parents not related to each other, and 19 of blood relations. It thus appears that 28 per cent, of the cases in which the parentage was ascertained were of consanguineous origin. By combining this result with those of the recent inquiries of MM. Landes and Chazarain at Bordeaux, and of M. Perrin at Lyons, the author arrives at the conclusion that while the general proportion of consanguineous marriages in Fiance is 2 per cent., the per-centage of deaf and dumb persons born of such marrriages to the whole number amounts to at least 25 per cent, in Lyons, 28 in Paris, and 30 in Bordeaux. In other words, the deaf and dumb of consanguineous origin are from twelve to fifteen times as numerous as they would be, if the infirmity was equally dis- tributed among the offspring of consanguineous and other marriages. It was further ascertained by inquiries of the same nature, that of those inmates of the asylums whose parents had been blood relations, 8 in 15 had deaf and dumb brothers and sisters, to the number of 12; whereas, in 51 children of unrelated parents, only 9 had deaf and dumb brothers or sisters, also to the number of 12. So that 80 per cent, should be added to the first category, but only 23 per cent, to the second, in order to obtain a true numerical expression of the relation under investigation. The author next inquires whether the liability to congenital deaf-mutism differs according to the various degrees of con- sanguinity. This is illustrated by the following numbers: —In 61 cases among the inmates of the asylums of Paris and Bordeaux, the degrees of consanguinity were in 1 case, that of nephew and aunt, in 1 of uncle and niece, in 42 of cousins german, 13 of second cousins, 1 of cousins of unknown order, and 3 of distant relations (sic). From the comparison of these numbers with the ascertained frequency in France of marriages between persons of the several degrees of relation- ship in question, the author concludes that if the probability of un- related parents giving birth to a deaf and dumb child be represented by 1, the corresponding liability in the case of cousins german, must be 18, and of uncle and niece, 37. The author proceeds to observe that the frequency of congenital deaf- mutism varies in different communities according to the laxity of the civil or religious restrictions which are in force with regard to consanguineous marriages. Thus it appears that in Berlin there are 3*1 deaf and dumb in every 10,000 Catholics, 6-i in 10,000 Christians mostly professing Protestantism, and 27 in every 10,000 Jews, among whom the Lcvitical law allows of closer relationships than the Canon law. Again, in enslaved