DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. a rapid and complete recovery, and resumed his ordinary work in a month. There was never any perceptible emaciation. Occasional doses of morphia were given at night to procure sleep. Case IV., one of pleurisy in an old man, took for six days no other nutriment than |ss of brandy every hour, and but little else for several days more, and recovered rapidly without any emaciation or prostration. These cases certainly prove the power of alcohol alone to sustain life, to prevent emaciation, and loss _ of muscular strength, and to subdue delirium, where it does not depend on inflammation of the brain. Anstie adds, that patients whose skin is dry and burning take alcohol often with great advantage, the skin becoming in a few hours moist with sweat. Further, there seems no risk that a taste for alcohol is created by the free administration of it in acute disease. The desire for it ceases as soon as the appetite for ordinary food returns. Maucet, TV, M.D., F.R.S.—An Inquiry into the Influence of the Abuse of Alcohol as a Predisposing Cause of Disease. Brit, and For. Med.- Chir. Rev., April, 1862. Marcet examined 695 male patients, and distributed them into fifteen groups of employments, and nine of diseases. The following are some of his results :—Shopkeepers, considered as a class, are more liable than any others to suffer from alcoholism. Marcet ascribes this to their health being lowered by in-door occupations and unhealthy dwellings. Drinkers are more liable to febrile affections than sobers, and also to diseases of the lungs and air-passages, especially to laryngitis. With regard to diseases of the stomach and intestines, drinkers do not appear to suffer from them more or so much as sobers; they are, however, more liable to gastritis than to intestinal disorder. The abuse of alcohol does not appear to predispose to disease of the skin, even less to gout and rheumatism, and in a still decreasing ratio to non-alcoholic disorders of the nervous system, and to diseases of other internal organs and tissues, mostly inflammatory. Certain tables which are given show clearly that persons engaged in various employments are predisposed to gout and rheumatism according to their drinking tendencies. Foxssagrives.—The Therapeutic Application of the " Diata Sicca." Bull, de Ther., June 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 72. The physiological effects of this proceeding are, more or less thirst, which diminishes somewhat after a few days, increased density of the fluids, diminution of the volume of the organs, shrinking or disappearance of the subcutaneous veins, emaciation, constipation, and increased absorp- tion. The saliva becomes thicker, the urine red and sedimentary. A dry diet may be used, (1) to diminish secretions that are excessive—cases of diabetes insipidus have been greatly improved by it; (2) in cases where liquids are ill digested and disagree with the stomach; (3) in different kinds of dropsies; (4) to promote absorption in cases of inflammatory exudation ; (5) in the so-called Arabian cure of syphilis. The details of this treatment as carried out by Chomel consist in giving thick soups, bread, roast or baked meat, fish without sauce, and fruits, except the very