REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 394- Brown, I. BAKER,—Retained Menses of two years' duration, caused by At) ~esia Vagina and treated by Puncture of the Uterus per Iiectuin. Keport of Obstetrical Society of London, Lancet, 1862. The age of the patient was 15, the uterus was felt to be the size of a four months' gravid organ. She had suffered great pain at every monthly period for two years. An unsuccessful attempt had been made to form a vagina. A curved trocar was introduced into the tumour from the rectum, and treacly-looking fluid escaped then and for two or three days afterwards. It was kept in for a fortnight. A month later she menstruated per rectum, and shortly afterwards returned home. Harley, Prof.—A case in which Air was expelled from the Vagina. Bep. of Obst. Society of Lond., Lancet, May 2nd, 1862. In the case related air was expelled from the vagina with a loud noise. It began about eighteen months ago, and was renewed at each catamenial period since. No communication was found between the vagina and rectum. To ascertain the source of the air, a catheter was passed into the uterus, to which a long india-rubber tube was at- tached, with a stop-cock at the other end, the stop-cock being placed in a tumbler of water. No air escaped from the tube. On placing the open end of the catheter in the vagina, air escaped. Afterwards the water was found to be sucked up by the vagina; the abdominal muscles were found in action at this time, and contributed to the result. The vagina thus sucked up and expelled the air by spasmodic action. PBEGNANCT AND CHILD-BED. t MISCELLANEOUS. Brown, Dr. C. Blakeley.—Scarlatina in the Puerperal State. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 8th, 1862. The author relates particulars of nine cases of scarlatina in the puer- peral state which were treated in the Queen Charlotte's Lying-in Hos- pital ; they all recovered. Bark and ammonia were given early, beef tea, wine, and brandy, were carefully and abundantly administered, and in five opium was given with marked benefit. Barnes, Dr. Bobert.—On the Broncho-pneumonia of Lying-in Women. Bep. of Obstet. Soc, Lancet, March 15th, 1862. The author states that he has observed a peculiar form of broncho- pneumonia in lying-in women. This peculiar disease is, he believes, one of the manifestations of puerperal fever, and it is the effect of the irritation of the bronchial mucous membrane by the septic or other offending matter circulating with the blood, analogous to the diarrhoea often observed under such circumstances. This form of broncho- pneumonia was distinct from that immediately resulting from capillary embolia. Gusserow.—Contribution to the Study of Osteomalacia. Mon. f. Greb., July, 1862. It appears from the researches of Litzmann, that, as had been pre-