REPORT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. 476 interfered with by its use, so long as the nostrils were free from obstruc- tion, ns appeared in the present instance to have been the case. This opinion was reversed by the medical college of the district, who held that death was due to suffocation, in the production of which the gag was the instrument. Professor Szymanowski's pamphlet is devoted to the vin- dication of the opposite opinion—that brandy was the sole cause of death. Death by Violence. The Case of Samuel Gardner. The Times, Oct. 31st. Lancet, Dec. 6th. Med. Times, Nov. 15th. About eight o'clock a.m., on the 15th of September, Mr. Sequeira was called in to see the wife of a sweep residing at 12, Northumberland Alley, who was said to have cut her throat. The body was lying on the floor, with the head supported against the door-post, and the legs extended. The whole of the surface felt cold to the hand, excepting that of the lower part of the abdomen. Both arms crossed the chest, and in the right hand was a knife, which was loosely grasped, with its back towards the wound. The wound was two and a quarter inches in length and one and a half inch in depth, being deepest on the left side. There were several severe cuts across the fingers of the left hand, such as might have been produced by grasping a knife, and similar slighter cuts on the right hand. There was a pool of blood on either side of the wound, but none on the chest below the clavicles. The opinion of Mr. Sequeira, that the wound (of which the description is imperfect) could not have been inflicted by the deceased with her right hand, and the other facts, led the jury to the conclusion that a murder had been committed. Of the two possible authors of the crime, viz., the husband of the 'deceased and a servant, the former was proved to have been absent for four hours preceding Mr. Sequeira's visit. Hence it became an important question, how long death had taken place at the time of his examination of the body. The medical opinion that the deceased must have been dead more than three hours, founded exclusively on the temperature of the body, as judged of by the hand, mainly conduced to the conviction of the prisoner. Infanticide. Toulmouche.—Studies on Infanticide and concealed or simulated Preg- nancy. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvi, p. 364; and vol. xviii, p. 157. In an introductory chapter the author gives minute directions for the examination of the accused and the corpus delecti in medico-legal inves- tigations relating to infanticide, and enumerates the special precautions to be used, and the various questions which require solution. He next pro- ceeds to divide the inquiry into four sections. In the first he proposes to treat of infanticide by contusion of the head ; in the second of infanticide by suffocation, strangling, and drowning; in the third, of those cases of infanticide in which the cause of death cannot be determined ; and in the fourth of the signs of concealed and simulated pregnancy. The first mode of infanticide usually consists either in striking the head of the infant against the ground or against a wall or in knocking in the head with a stone or clog. It occasionally happens that death is pro- duced by concussion, without its being possible to discover any lesion,