30 ItEPOltT ON PHYSIOLOGY. NERVOUS SYSTEM. Leyen, M., and Olliyier, A. — Researches on the Physiology and Pathology of the Cerebellum. Comptes Rendus, vol. lv, 1862. Buettner, C.—On the section of the Casserian Ganglion, and on the changes which result in the Eye and in other organs. Zeitsch. fur Ration. Med., vol. xv, part 3, p. 186. Bernard, C— Experimental Researches on the Vascular and Calorific Nerves of the Gh-eat Sympathetic. Comptes Rendus, vol. lv, Aug. 4th and Aug. 18th, 1862. Bernard, C.— 'Experimental Researches on the Ganglions of the Great Sympathetic Nerve. Comtes Rendus, vol. lv, Aug. 25th, 1852. Golz.—On the influence of the Nervous Centres upon the Vegetative Process. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxiii, p. 451. Messrs. Leven and Ollivier endeavoured to gain accurate informa- tion on the functions of the cerebellum, by puncturing that organ with a strong, steel needle. The experiments were performed on guinea-pigs, and only those cases were relied upon in which no haemor- rhage took place after the operation. If, in such cases, the injury was entirely confined to the cerebellum, the animals recovered com- pletely in from seven to fourteen days. But if, in addition, the medulla oblongata was wounded, death was sure to follow within from twenty- four to forty-eight hours. In simple lesion of the cerebellum the only and invariable changes observed were such as occurred in the functions of the motory apparatus. In most instances in which one lobe only was punctured the animal was drawn with an irresistible force towards the injured side. The animal, at first, revolved with great rapidity round its axis. These movements then got slower by degrees, till at last the creature succeeded in finding rest by lying down on the punctured side. This position was anxiously retained, as if the animal was all the while conscious of the impelling force. The writers explain the yielding to this one-sided impulse by assuming that the muscles of the body on the side opposite to the wounded lobe are, to some extent, paralysed. Stra- bismus was a constant symptom of the injury. Numerous careful experiments on rabbits were performed by Dr. Buettner, with the view of arriving at a more definite result as regards the much-discussed question, as to how the changes are to be explained which take place in the eye when the Casserian ganglion is divided. Is the inflammation which follows this operation due to the influence of the nerves, or is it merely caused by mechanical irritation of the delicate organ, thus deprived of its protecting sensibility ? Although Snellen had shown that, by fixing, in such cases, the ear of the animal to its eye, inflammation did not set in so rapidly as otherwise, he never succeeded in altogether preventing that issue. Dr. Buettner employed a better method of protection. He carefully removed the long hairs from the neighbour- hood of the eye, and, immediately after having divided the ganglion, covered it with a cylindrical capsule. This capsule was tightly fixed to the surrounding skin, and its other end was closed by means of a watch- glass, through which the changes in the eye could be well observed.