237 MUSCLES AND TENDONS. ANTHRAX AND EUKUNCULUS. Dr. Kleinenberg has published a careful account of this affection ('St. Peter'sb. Med. Zeits.,' iii, 76): in opposition to the usual statement, he has found it less frequently on the neck or back than on other parts of tbe body.—Mr. French recommends subcutaneous division of the in- durated cellular membrane, to arrest the progress of boils or carbuncles. It is necessary to make crucial, and, when the disease is extensive, even three incisions across the centre, extending completely to the outer boundary of the disease,—free divisions of the centre alone not being sufficient to prevent it from spreading. The sudden interruption to the progress of the malady is not followed by its outbreak elsewhere. Mr. Partridge employed this plan of treatment in a case of carbuncle of the neck. The relief was immediate and recovery rapid. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, ii, 52.) LUPUS. Professor Hebra finds the galvauo-caustic very serviceable: a single application destroys as much as twenty cauterizations with the nitrate of silver : the pain at the time is not severe, and disappears immediately after the operation : the number of applications necessary varies from one to four; and the average duration of the treatment is seventy days. (' Woch. AVien. Aerzte,' 1861, and ' Prager Viertelj.,' 1862, ii, Anal. 48). Mr. T. Hunt, ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 8), states, that the disease will yield almost invariably to small doses of arsenic internally administered: the escharo'ic plan is useful for a time, and, after great suffering, the ulcers will heal, but they soon break out afresh in an aggravated form; by a mild, measured course of arsenical medicines, the disease, in almost every case, may be permanently destroyed. MUSCLES AND TENDONS. Dr. P. Neuschler gives an account, with plates, of a case of paralysis of the serratus magnus ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1862, p. 78). M. Demarquay has seen three cases of rupture of the sheath of the peronei muscles, accompanied by dislocation of their tendons, an affection to which Monteggia and Robert were the first to call attention. The symptoms and treatment are well exemplified in the following case :—A tolerably vigorous man, thirty-five years of age, fell, so as to throw all his weight on one foot, whilst endeavouring to mount a restive horse; at the same moment he felt a violent pain in the lower part of the leg and foot, and was unable to walk. On a careful examination, Demarquay found neither fracture nor luxation ; there was a rather extensive ecchymosis in the position of the peronei, and the patient complained of pain of the same part; besides, on the outer surface of the external malleolus, there was a tense cord, which rolled under the finger, and which/by flexing the foot and gentle traction, could be restored to the place normally occupied by the tendons of the peronei muscles. Treatment.—The tendons were