RErOUT ON" SURGERY. 292 symptoms connected with suppurations in the primary tumour, and with tlic growth, adhesions, softening and ulceration of secondary glandular disease ; hcsides the distress arising from the fetid state of the mouth, and the great and increasing debility of the patient. The greatest relief and ease may often be obtained by severing the gustatory nerve between the disease and the brain. No sensation can then be conveyed along it from the tumour ; no reflected irritation can reach its collateral branches ; no stimulus to an exaggerated secretion can be given to the salivary glands. A patient, on whom this operation has been performed, should be relieved of pain in the tongue in front of the fauces, as well as in the jaw, temple, and crown of the head ; he should lose the incessant annoyance arising from the dribbling or expectoration of the saliva; should speak more freely, and swallow with less difficulty, should sleep better, and be better nourished than before. And, so far as the gustatory nerve alone is concerned in the disease, all this is usually and strictly the fact. The glosso-pharyngeal, however, cannot be relieved by this operation, except as indirectly its pain ceases to be made worse by the salivation and con- sequent movement of the tongue. In the year 1850 Mr. Hilton published in the 'Guy's Hospital Reports' a case of cancer of the tongue, in the treatment of which he had divided the gustatory nerve on the side of the disease with great advantage. No other surgeon appears to have repeated this operation. Mr. Moore, however, having practised it himself for five cases of cancer of the tongue, has formed a high estimate of its value, and is convinced that much suffering would be temporarily alleviated, if the safety and facility of this method of relief were more generally known. The feasibility of this plan for affording relief arises from the superficial position of the gustatory nerve. From the point at which it emerges from between the internal pterygoid muscle and the jaw to that at which it enters the tongue, the nerve is placed immediately beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth. In the hinder part of this submucous course it lies between the last molar tooth and the anterior pillar of the fauces ; further forward it is b'eneath the floor of the mouth. Mr. Hilton, in his operation, sought for the nerve in the latter situation. The tongue being pressed away from the jaw, he made an incision along the mucous mem- brane thus exposed, found the nerve close to the sublingual gland, raised, and divided it. This operation is a sure one, inasmuch as the nerve is actually seen ; but he describes it as rendered tedious by the bleeding; and it appears, further, to be inapplicable when the tongue is fixed to the jaw by adhesions of the tumour. There is a spot further back in the mouth in which also the nerve is within reach, and where it can be divided, even when the size of the tumour renders the operation in the floor of the mouth impracticable or inconvenient. The nerve, indeed, cannot be seen in the operation, but it may sometimes be felt, and can generally be easily reached. The guide to the nerve in the latter situation is the last molar tooth. On passing the finger into the mouth within and beyond that tooth, the bulging alveolar ridge can be felt, narrowing as it ascends into the thin coronoid process. Behind, below, and parallel witli the ridge, is the nerve. A line drawn inside the lower jaw, from the crown of the last