l'SYCHIATRIK. 91 through the medium of the trophic nerves, the sensory and motor being only affected by large doses. pNMAN, T.—Oft Apoplexy. Lond. Med. Bev., August. Inman gives an emetic if the stomach be loaded. If the face be con- gested, he resorts to local bleeding. If the heart _ be hypertrophied and contracting strongly, he practises a small venesection. If none of these conditions are present, the sole indication is to sustain the vital powers, and restore, if possible, the cerebral circulation. Henoch.—Deutsche Klinik, No. 22. Kecords a case of chronic hydrocephalus, cured chiefly by the internal use of calomel and digitalis, with inunction of mercurial ointment on the head. Cod-liver oil was also given. There was no actual paralysis', except perhaps of the sphincter ani, but the child, aged three years, was unable to stand or sit. Eecovery was complete in about four months. PSYCHIATRIK. Nasse.—Allgem. Ztschr. f. Psychiatrie, xviii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 335. Nasse, in examinations of the specific gravity of the brain in the insane, finds that the specific gravity of the cerebrum is less than that of the cere- bellum ; that of the cortical part less than that of the medullary ; and that the specific gravity of the spinal cord is less than that of the cortical part of the hemispheres. The specific gravity is above the average in hyper- semia, and also when the tissue has been compressed by considerable serous accumulations. The highest specific gravity is found in patients who have died of acute inflammations of other organs. The specific gravity is diminished in anamiia, softening, atrophy, and oedema, both in the brain and cord. In paralytic idiocy, the specific gravity of the spinal cord is increased, while that of the cortical substance of the brain is diminished. There is no determinate relation between the age and the duration of the disease on the one hand, and the specific gravity on the other. Scm.AOER, L.—Semiotic Signification of the Alterations of the Voice in the Insane. (Ester. Ztschr. f. prakt., Heilk. viii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 335. The compass of the voice appears to increase in many patients, especially in paralytic imbeciles. The strength of the voice is essentially related to the degree and character of the psychical condition; increase is observed in general in states of exaltation, decrease in states of depression. In maniacal excitement there is often variation in the strength of the tones in a continuous discourse. The tone of the voice is frequently altered, and recovery after insanity can never be considered complete and secure until Ehe voice has regained its natural tone. Many particulars are mentioned