217 GANGItENE. what may be the result of the previous mechanical violence, is ever observed in uncomplicated cases of this kind of gangrene. The appearance of the wound, and fetid, serous discharge at first, and later the constitutional symptoms, are the only means whereby we can recognise sloughing of the deep areolar tissue and the consequent blood poisoning. When the wound gives unequivocal proof, by the fuller development of these symptoms, that all hope of suppuration occurring is at an end and the gangrene is spreading, the constitutional symptoms undergo a serious change, and evidence is quickly afforded that the blood has become poisoned to a fatal extent. The pulse, before soft and full, and not exceeding go beats in the minute, becomes quick and weak; the vomiting is incessant, being accompanied by hiccough, or, what is worse, a sort of gulping effort; there are insatiable thirst, a dry, brown tongue, and a tympanitic state of the abdomen. The yellowness of the skin gains a deeper tint, the features are contracted, and there is a peculiar sunken expression of countenance; the point of the nose, the lips, and one or more other spots on the face, especially over each malar bone, present a congested appearance, and this, mingled with the general yellowness, gives that remarkable leaden hue which was so much looked to by the older surgeons, being considered by them characteristic of gangrene. As time goes on the fatal symptoms advance. The pulse becomes irregular or intermittent; the patient falls into a cold, clammy sweat; he complains of a sense of constriction across the praecordium, which is sometimes most distressing; there are jactita- tion and muttering delirium ; yet when roused he will in general answer questions rationally, and is often able to raise himself in bed and take some drink. Soon, however, coma comes on, and in a couple of hours closes the scene, not more than thirty-six hours having, as a general rule, elapsed from the first announcement given by the wound that gangrene of the areolar tissue around the broken fragments had commenced. The most characteristic local feature, apart from the aspect of the wound, is the absence of swelling, the limb being, to the last, rather soft and flaccid than otherwise ; the most prominent general symptoms are the incessant vomiting, the yellowness, and later the leaden shade of the skin of the face, and the abruptness of the supervention of fatal symptoms. In this form amputation is only of use as a measure of anticipation, for it is obvious that, once the general symptoms give evidence of thorough poisoning of the blood, removal of the source of mischief comes too late. Yet to operate before all chance of suppuration being established and the gangrene arrested has passed would be most unjustifiable, hence close watching and great preparedness are called for. After the wound has made the first declaration that sloughing has commenced, however feebly the signs maybe manifested, however slight the change, the greatest vigilance is demanded from the surgeon; and if, in a short time, the local features should be more strongly marked, and the pulse become quicker and weaker, and the irritability of stomach continue, we should, without delay, resort to the operation. By temporising we only give time for the morbid poison to be absorbed and to produce its deadly effect upon the brain and other vital organs. Still, even though the operation be per- formed at the most appropriate moment, the chance of success it offers is so indifferent as to make it imprudent for the surgeon to urge it too