197 FEVER ACCOMPANYING SURGICAL AFFECTIONS. well-marked metastasis, it is still possible that the removal of the prin- cipal seat of suppuration may be followed by recovery. A robust man of sixty had been suffering for four months from disease of the joint between the fifth metatarsal and cuboid bones. On the 39th September, i860, an incision was made, and the carious portions were removed. Tins operation was followed by suppuration on the dorsum of the foot and in the le°-, and fever; on the 15th of October there was a severe rigor, followed° by a second on the 16th ; on the 18th there was pain in the left shoulder, and on the 19th in the left thigh. On the 23rd we were obliged to make two fresh incisions in the foot; again there ensued a violent rigor. A severe bronchial catarrh, without any distinct affection of the lung, occurred; the suppuration in the leg could no longer be re- strained. The patient refused amputation, but finally, on November 5th, he consented, and it was performed just below the knee; healing by the first intention ; the fever, which had been so far constant, ceased five days after the amputation; the metastatic inflammation of the shoulder dimin- ished, and a rapid convalescence ensued. The author is inclined to open the joint-abscesses earlier than is usually done; he also recommends those in the subcutaneous tissues to be opened as soon as there is fluctuation. He has often, in insidious, subacute suppurations, given quinine in the afternoon to the amount of four to six grains, in one or two doses, and has found that it has the greatest effect in checking the evening exacerba- tions when thus administered. The effect of the first doses is often very striking, that of the later ones is much less. Opium, so much recom- mended by Hasse, has the effect of stopping the rigors when given in large doses; yet if the fever is traced with the thermometer, its anti- pyretic action is found but slight. The author has found it best to give in the afternoon four to six grains of quinine, and in the evening one grain of opium. Veratrin, which has been also recommended, has in some cases a decidedly injurious effect. The author does not consider it well to commence with much wine; in the later stages, when collapse supervenes, it must be given freely, and its action is, in his opinion, assisted by the administration of camphor and opium. VI. Fever in Septicaemia. Septicaemia is essentially different from pyaemia; though the exact chemical change in the composition of the blood has not been made out, still it may be produced experimentally by the injection of putrid (filtered) fiuids into the veins or intestinal canal, so that we may conclude with great certainty that it depends on the absorption of putrid matters. In surgical cases it is only developed after recent injuries, generally between the second and the fourth day. The circumference of the wound becomes within the time mentioned, and especially towards the third day, much reddened and cedematous. The swelling spreads with great rapidity ; thus in twenty-four hours it may extend from the hand to the shoulder. Pressure near the wound causes the discharge of some ichor mixed with bubbles of gas. The disintegration of the intermuscular and subcutaneous cellular tissues spreads with great rapidity from the wound ; where to-day