451 ALKALOIDS. awoke with violent colic, urgent desire to go to stool, horripilations, anxiety, shivering, cold sweats, and extreme hyposthenia. On M. Gelineau's arrival he found the pupils dilated and the patient scarcely able to answer questions; but after the application of cold to the head and warmth to the extremities, the symptoms first described passed off, and in an hour she began to complain of buzzing, drumming, or ringing in the ears, and the other usual symptoms of an over-dose of quinine. Digitaline. Stadion.—T7ie Physiological Action of Digitaline, with special reference to its influence on the quantity and composition of the Urine. Prag. Vjhrschr., vol. lxxiv, p. 97. Schmidt, vol. 11^, p. 287. The author has made a long series of observations on himself, for the purpose of throwing light on several important questions relating to the action of digitaline which have been hitherto undetermined. He began his experiments by taking two milligrammes (about ^ grain). On the next day the dose was increased to three milligrammes, and so on to the eighteenth and last day of the inquiry, the dose being daily aug- mented by one milligramme. In order to ensure uniformity of result, the diet was made to consist of a weighed quantity of milk, eggs, bread, and butter, and the research was preceded by preliminary series of ex- periments for the purpose of determining the effect of this diet on the composition and quantity of the urine. The analyses were made by the volumetrical method, the test solutions being prepared by the author himself with utmost possible exactitude. The urea was determined by Liebig's method, after the elimination not only of phosphoric and sul- phuric acids, but of chlorine. Uric acid was determined by the method of Neubauer. The results were as follows :—Digitaline produces in the physiological condition of the organism a diminution of the quantity of liquid which is excreted by the kidneys. It at the same time diminishes the principal constituents of the urine, e.g. the urea, chloride of sodium, phosphates, and sulphates, but increases the quantity of uric acid. The acid reaction of the urine remains unaltered, but its specific gravity is invariably diminished. As regards the action of digitaline on the heart, it appears that at first the pulse is accelerated, but subse- quently retarded. Digitaline induces rapid wasting of the body and depression of the exchange of material; and in this, according to the author, consists its most important action. Its effects on the circulatory, nervous, and sexual functions, correspond with those of digitalis. The author finds that it is capable of temporarily, but completely, annulling the activity of the sexual organs, and may be regarded as a true anta- phrodisiac. It differs from digitalis in being free from those prejudicial actions on the digestive organs which the drug possesses. It is thirty times as active as digitalis. The dose ought never to exceed one fifth of a grain in twenty-four hours. From one twentieth to one sixth of a grain is usually sufficient for the induction of therapeutical action. "VVinogradoff.—On the influence exercised by Digitaline on the exchange