REPORT ON SURGERY. 196 found hepatic abscess in a case of this kind. Abscess of the kidney is rather liable to happen when pyaemia takes its origin from a bed-sore. Early diagnosis of py ami a by means of the fever is not possible.—A patient who after the end of the traumatic fever has been for many days perfectly apyretic, without any secondary attack, is very little liable to pycemia, unless venous thrombosis should accidentally cause the formation of emboli. On the other side, every case which is attended by repeated and intense secondary attacks, in consequence of progressive suppurations around the wound, is inclined to purulent metiistasis, and requires the most assiduous watching and treatment. Some and often a great degree of local extension of the suppuration precedes the metastasis in all the cases which do not depend on emboli. The converse is also true, that embolism is the cause in most of the cases of death from metastasis in which there have been no suppurations around the wound. The fever towards the end of life; aphtha; sweat; urine.—In most cases the fever continues very intense till towards the end of the case, even when the patient is already extremely emaciated. It is only in rare cases, in elderly people, in whom the fever has never been very severe, that the temperature sinks in the agony below the normal. If the patient recovers, the defervescence is always very slow and with many interruptions. The author has often noticed aphthae on the tongue and palate in pyaemia, just as in hectic. He considers the state of the tongue important in reference to prognosis ; even though all the other symptoms improve, if it continues dry, the case always ends fatally. So long as the tongue is dry and the . pulse slow and frequent, there is no real improvement. An interesting case is also adduced in which cryptogams were pro- duced in the bronchial tubes to a large amount. Treatment.—There are undoubtedly cases' which recover; the acute always die, but some of the subacute and chronic escape. In his opinion the most important is the local treatment. To prevent or stop inflam- matory processes spreading from the wound is the most certain way to prevent pyaemia; at the same time the strength must be kept up as much as possible by diet and medicine. Metastatic inflammations in external parts must be treated in the same way as primary attacks. In respect to pyaemia, resections are more dangerous than amputations ; if a joint is opened, and the parts around are contused and lacerated, as is so often the case in machinery accidents, there will be great risk attending a simple resection, owing to the extensive suppurations which will inevitably occur around the wound. In many cases of injury of even the wrist or elbow-joint it will be safer to amputate. Careful stopping of all bleeding and absolute rest are of great import- ance in respect to the prevention of pyaemia. In cases of compound frac- ture the dressing should be such that the wound can be cleansed without the slightest motion of the bones for at least fourteen days. Ice must be employed in the manner already mentioned. Deep incisions for opening abscesses should be avoided in these cases as much as possible, for each ■ incision is very liable to excite a fresh attack of fever, and each attack ot fever exhausts the patient and renders him more liable to metastasis. It repeated rigors occur, and the suppuration is undiminished by the treat- ment amputation should be at once performed; even though there exist