REPORT ON SURGERY. 201. the result of burns; hence the conclusion was too hastily drawn that great contraction is a special quality of the cicatrices after such injuries > the real reason being that the skin is rarely destroyed to a great extent except by burns. As influenced by the depth of the burn, four principal methods of healing may be distinguished :—ist, simple reproduction of the epidermis, often in a very short space of time, in cases where the deeper layers of the skin have been uninjured ; 2nd, formation of granulations, of a net-like appearance, by the superficial layer of the skin, followed by a rapid formation of epidermis; 3rd, formation of granulations by the deeper layers of the skin, followed by very slow cicatrization ; 4th, for- mation of granulations and cicatrization by the subcutaneous cellular tissue, the healing being much promoted through dragging in of the sur- rounding skin by the contracting cicatrix. The second form occurs where the deeper layers of epidermis or epidermis-producing tissue are not destroyed, and may be recognised by the peculiar net-like appearance presented by the surface after removal of the slough, little red granulations projecting from a whitish or yellowish ground. Cicatrization is rapid in such cases because the epidermis has thousands of points from which to spread. The third method of healing is the slowest; the epidermis only spreads from the margins, and there is little or no diminution of the wound by contraction of the cicatrix. The subsequent inflammation often causes a secondary destruction of the skin by purulent infiltration, by ulceration, or, as Roser has seen in a number of cases, by a second layer becoming gangrenous in consequence of fibrinous infiltration after the first layer of the skin had been elimi- nated. In the treatment these points should be kept in view; the dis- charge of the slough should be promoted, the wound should be protected from external irritation, the inflammation should be prevented or alleviated. In the first and second variety cotton-wool' for two or three days and then cold applications are, perhaps, the best; in the third and fourth forms Roser has often found adhesive plaster very serviceable when the wounds were granulating, especially for regulating the mode of contraction. He has also had some surprising results from the treatment of contracted cicatrices by strips of adhesive plaster ; he found that, even when extremely tense, they yield to the pressure, and gradually extend. The strips should be so applied as to both extend and compress the cicatrix at the same time. Professor Hebra publishes a case of burn treated by the constant immer- sion of the whole body in warm water ('Allg. Med. Zeit.,' 1861, No. 43, 44). He considers that maceration of the epidermis is of great import- j ance in many affections of the skin ; he remarks that the varioloid erup- | tion is much less severe and much more rapid in its course upon the I mucous membrane of the mouth and throat than on the skin, a difference which he refers to a considerable extent to the constant maceration, lie considers that burns and scalds present most marked indications for the warm-water treatment; the object being—ist, to induce maceration of the sloughs ; 2ndly, to prevent the deleterious action of matters produced by decomposition of the sloughs and of the pus ; 3rdly, to spare the patient the intense pain which arises from changing the dressings, from accidental rubbing or exposure of the part; and, perhaps, 4tbly, to obviate the rapid