REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 492 certain special brunches of the most important of our manufactures (par- ticularly the textile manufactures, those of earthenware, china, steel, and iron), that nearly all who are employed break down prematurely with lung disease, commencing as bronchitis, but often resulting in irreparable destruction of the texture of the lung, and that this arises from the in- halation of a notable quantity of finely divided metal, stone, fibre, or other material used in the sever.il occupations referred to. In the dry grinding of steel instruments, although much good has been effected by drawing off the dusty air from the grinder's wheel by rapid mechanical aspiration, it appears that the occupation is still hurtful, partly from the inefficiency of the apparatus used, partly because other processes productive of dust are earned on in the same workshops. Several times a day the worn surface of the grind-stone requires roughen- ing, in which process clouds of grit become diffused, for the removal of which no effectual method appears to have been discovered. In several processes in the manufacture of earthenware, particularly in scouring the baked china with sand-paper (a process in which female labour is exclusively employed), and in the drying by artificial heat of plates and other similar articles fashioned by moulding, the operatives suffer as severely as dry grinders by the light and almost impalpable dust which is diffused in the atmosphere. In most potteries it appears that no precautions are used to counteract this evil. As regards textile manufactures, the most important in relation to the danger to health incurred by the workman are those of cotton and flax. Those who are employed in the carding-rooms of cotton factories inhale an atmosphere loaded" with minute fibrils of cotton, and suffer severely from pulmonary affections. So, also, in the process of hackling flax, the workmen rarely attain middle life without becoming affected with pulmonary disease. Dr. Greenhow found three out of four of the work- men suffering from bronchial irritation, and in a quarter of these cases there had been haemoptysis. In both these manufactures it appears that, although it is not for a moment doubted that effectual means of me- chanical ventilation might readily be devised, no such means have been actually employed. The author's researches further show that, with one remarkable excep- tion, all miners become early affected with bronchitis or phthisis. Even at an early age the respiratory mucous membrane begins to suffer. Hoarseness and slight oppression at the chest are succeeded by dyspnoea, cough, and expectoration, the sputa being often admixed with whatever dust or soot has entered. In those predisposed to phthisis the disease rapidly develops itself; in others, the bronchitis becomes chronic. Acute attacks recur at frequent intervals, the repetition of which tends to increase and aggravate the more permanent symptoms. That these results are in reality attributable to the defect of ventilation is strikingly illustrated by the single exceptional fact above referred to, namely, that the coal miners of Northumberland and Durham, where the collieries are almost invariably completely ventilated, enjoy as long and healthy lives as other classes of the community.