STONE. 317 more commonly due to violence, than to any other cause, but telling directly on the'peritoneum rather than on the cellular connexions of the bladder. Such is the inference I deduce from the study of numerous cases of death in children, respecting which I have been in a position to form opinions. " The next cause of death is exhaustion. Young children bear the loss of blood badly, and when it is considerable—an occurrence which, how- ever, is rare—the patient sometimes sinks from consequent exhaustion. The condition of calculous children, also, if the stone has long existed, is occasionally low in the extreme, and they gradually sink without any apparent effort to rally, no active attack having declared itself. " Besides these two principal causes of death, there are occasional examples of fatal result from shock after very prolonged or severe operations; from disease of the kidneys and bladder; from phlebitis and intra-pelvic abscess." Final deductions relative to the operations to be employed in particular cases. " i. For all cases of calculus during the periods of infancy, childhood, and boyhood,—which may be regarded as from one to twelve or fourteen years of age,—the following course appears to be the most judicious :— "To practise lateral lithotomy as the rule: the mortality from whicb varies during this period from one in eleven to one in thirty cases ; the mean of the whole being about one in fifteen cases. The exceptional cases are those, in which the stone is only a little too large to pass by the urethra, and therefore small. For these there is no occasion to perform lithotomy. Opposed as I am to lithotrity in children as a rule, for reasons already named, 1 nevertheless believe, that when the stone is so small as to be pulverized by a single crushing with a suitable lithotrite, it is the simplest and best method of proceeding. "With regard to median lithotomy in children, there appears to be no objection to it, provided a director or gorget conducts the finger into the bladder. At the same time I do not know that it offers any particular advantages. " 2. In adult cases we have to decide between lithotomy and lithotrity ; and if the former is indicated, to point out the particular form to be employed. " First; lithotomy or lithotrity ? "The special indications for these operations must be considered, as they relate to two separate classes of patients :—■ " «. In tolerably strong and healthy adult patients. " b. In feeble and diseased adult patients. This division is of more practical value than a division founded on age, because the indications of age are less strongly marked after manhood has been attained than before. If age be regarded alone, the period between twenty-five and forty years gives the best results,—namely, one death in ten cases of lateral lithotomy. But the data are comparatively few, since it is the period of all others when stone is most rare. The question of age and its effects in adults is therefore included in the major one of constitutional condition.