229 SYPHILIS. treated without specifies, limit itself to superficial lesions, to two or three cops of cutaneous eruption (the severity of which gradually diminished), then the health he completely re-established, as proved by the procreation of healthy children. I call this state mild syphilis. " But the object of my present inquiry is not to determine whether in a particular instance, when the whole train of symptoms has been gone throu-1), the case was one of severe or mild syphilis. The important and the difficult point is to draw from the first manifestations of the disease indications which permit the practitioner to discover at an early period whether the disease will assume the severe or the mild form. The thera- peutical modification which I propose is, in fact, based entirely upon this determination, and upon the possibility of establishing it at an early period. , " Now, the following are the indications, arranged in chronological order, of the mild form : " 1st. The infecting subject, if examined sufficiently early, had a secondary lesion or a chancriform erosion. * "2nd. In the infected subject the primary lesion was a chancriform erosion. "3rd. The period of incubation between the primary lesion and the secondary symptoms was comparatively prolonged. "4th. The first affection of the skin was only exanthematic or papular. "5th. If there have been several crops of eruptions, they have been few in number, and separated from one another by long intervals ; their gravity has gradually diminished. "On the contrary, with an indurated chancre on the part of the infecting and the infected, with a short period of incubation, with the first eruption of a pustular or scaly character, with numerous crops of eruption, separated by short intervals, and gradually becoming more severe, we can foresee a severe attack of the disease. " The character of the constitution of the individual infected should also he taken into account in fixing the prognosis as to the form which the disease will assume. In this respect the degree of chlorosis which accompanies the first stage, and the amount of glandular engorgement which accompanies fresh manifestations, deserve to be taken into serious consideration. "Treatment.—The treatment of syphilis without mercury has been in vigour for a long time, for it has counted supporters since the first appearance of the disease ; hut errors and misapprehensions without number have, up to the present time, compromised its success. In the first place, and at every period, practitioners have always deceived them- selves with regard to the adjuvants to he employed in such cases. Whilst tonics and reconstitucnts were necessary, we find all the authori- ties—to aid, as they say, the spontaneous cure of syphilis—prescribe loss of blood and a debilitating regimen. Besides, I refuse to place any con- fidence .in the clinical observations where cases of soft sore, gonorrhoea, vegetations,.suppurated bubo, are made to figure as examples of the cure of syphilis. Likewise I decline to accept, as real cases of spontaneous cure, such cases as were merely stated to be cured at the time when they left the hospital. In these respects, the inquiry begun in 1816 requires