299 PHAttYtfX. These latter phenomena are serious symptoms, which daily assume more alarming proportions, because the disease has developed with great rapidity. I am inclined to think that in the twenty-four hours, during which the patient has been in the wards, the tumour has a little increased ; perhaps this increased swelling may be ascribed to the pressure and irri- tation of its surface. Evidently the man is suffering from a disease that demands immediate action. What is the nature of the tumour? "The diagnosis presents some difficulty. We have already rejected the idea of a naso-pharyngeal polypus. Two days ago, when I saw the patient for the first time, the diagnosis that occurred to me, was that of a tumour formed by glandular hypertrophy in the soft palate ; in 1847 I succeeded in proving the existence of such tumours at the hospital of St. Antoine. The soft palate, which forms the continuation of the hard palate, is itself composed of several layers ; besides the mucous membrane * covering it, both in front and behind, it has aponeurotic and glandular layers. The glandular layer is very developed, especially in front, where its thickness may be from four to five millimetres near the posterior border of the hard palate. If we suppose that one or more of these small glands become developed, we have a tumour formed by glandular hypertrophy; such a tumour presents these characters :—it is contained in a perfectly separate compartment, it is circumscribed, distinctly limited, spheroidal, and only very slightly connected with the adjacent parts, so that when its capsule is incised it may easily be enucleated with the finger. " This diagnosis was the first that suggested itself, yet there were some circumstances which threw a little doubt on it. In fact, the tumour of our patient is considerably harder than a glandular hypertrophy, its consistence is slightly fibrous. Tumours from hypertrophy are generally regular, here it is regular on only the upper part ; such a condition is not found lower down, and the finger introduced to a sufficient depth feels hard and irregular tubercles ; yet it is not impossible that this irregularity is only simulated by an exceptional condition due to the relations of the tumour with the tonsil of the left side. The tonsil, indeed, indurated and tuberculated, may be resting upon the surface of the tumour and thus be pressed inwards. Another consideration, which at first sight appears to prevent our laying down the diagnosis of hypertrophy, is the time that the tumour has been in reaching its present size. Our patient asserts that it has existed for scarcely two or three months ; and up to the present time the tumours from hypertrophy, that I have had the opportunity of observing, have run a chronic course and been five, eight, ten, fourteen years in developing. Lastly the mode of development is not quite that observed in those tumours ; they begin in the soft palate,— the one, we are considering, has, according to the patient's account, on the contrary, progressed from below upwards. Notwithstanding the facts I have just cited, and which, at first sight, might lead us away from belief in a hypertrophy, we must not come to any decided negative con- clusion, for the history of these tumours is, in one sense, a thing only of yesterday, and it is certainly not impossible, but that we may meet with them presenting essential modifications in their characters. May not some of these tumours manifest a hardness, which until now has never been perceived? May not some grow upwards, and more rapidly than