101 PSYCHIATRIK. that that section of the community which yields this sixth part of all our existing idiocy is by no means so large as one-ninth. Mitchell quotes statistics from Casper and Quetelet, which all go to show that illegitimate children are prone to have a feeble and imperfect organisation. Thus, at Berlin, every twenty-fifth child of the legitimate, and every twelfth child of the illegitimate, were stillborn, and, after birth, the mortality of the former before the age of five is to that of the latter as 6 : 10-3. Mitchell.—Marriages of Consanguinity, their Influence on Offspring. Edin. Med. J., March. Mitchell's conclusions are the following :—(1) It is a law of nature that the offspring is injured by consanguinity in the parentage. (2) That this injury assumes various forms. (3) That in all classes and conditions of society its manifestations are not alike. (4) That the evil appears to be in some measure under control. (5) That isolated cases or groups of cases may present themselves, where, in addition to consanguinity, all the other circumstances are so unfavourable that a confident prediction of much evil would be justified, yet where no such evil appears. (6) That, where the children seem to escape, the injury may show itself in the grand- children, so that the defect may be potential where it is not actual. (7) That, as regards mental disease, unions between blood relations influence idiocy and imbecihty more than they do the other forms of insanity. (8) That, with reference to Scotland, it may be estimated with safety that about nine or ten per cent, of existing idiocy is referable directly to consanguine marriages. In forming this estimate the proper deductions were liberally made, so as to avoid an over-statement. Duncan, P. M., M.B.—A Description of some of the most Important Phy- siological Anomalies of Idiots. J. of Mental Sc., Jan. 1862. Duncan states it as a rule, that the greater the physical defect, the greater the idiot, and the reverse; there is more chance of low intellectual power being developed if there are no great physical defects. In many idiots there exists most remarkable indifference to cold and heat, or pain. Some patches of the surface may be more anaesthetic than others. Increased cutaneous sensibility is, however, more frequent, and may also be local or general. The latter is common among active and irritable idiots, the imbecile and epileptic; it is accompanied by excitement of the reflex functions, increase of the temperature, and frequency of the pulse. Various perversions of the special senses are observed, and of the powers, especially the faculty of co-ordination, is very defective. M'Ilwaine, W., Rev.—On CEnomania, its Prevalence and Treatment. J. of Mental Sc., Jan. _ The author advocates forcibly the interposition of the law in cases of irresistible tendency to drunkenness. In some cases, on the sworn deposi- tion of friends and neighbours, the person might be placed in an asylum m others the omomaniac himself, during a lucid interval, might si^n an instrument, consigning himself to the custody of properly qualified