1'YiEMIA. 211 symptoms may subside; the fluid disappears, aud the joint is, in course of time, more" or less completely restored. Mr. Hewett has seen this in three or four instances about the knee, in which there remained stiffness and even contraction for a time, but in the course of a few months the joint was as supple as ever, and has remained so. A young cavalry officer, strong, very active, and apparently in excellent health, whilst under treatment for gonorrhoea was suddenly seized with what is commonly called gonorrhceal rheumatism. Several joints became involved, and for some time matters went on much as is usual in such cases; but then came rigors, with symptoms of a low typhoid character. Shortly afterwards the body was covered with a crop of pustules, several small abscesses formed in various parts of the trunk and limbs, and suppuration took place in and around the left sterno-clavicular articulation ; the matter was let out. Subsequently the right hip put on all the characters of deep-seated suppuration, and the joint became so exquisitely painful, that the slightest vibration, even from a person walking inad- vertently across the room, caused the patient to shriek. Extreme emacia- tion followed; and notwithstanding all means and appliances (a water- bed he could not bear), the skin gave way in several places—in fact, wherever pressure occurred; first over the sacrum, largely exposing the bone; then over the left trochanter, over the ischiatic tuberosities, and subsequently over each of the more prominent spinous,processes of the vertebrae, as his position in bed was, from time to time, varied. For weeks this patient struggled between life and death; then he began to rally, the fluid about the right hip gradually disappeared, and he ul- timately got well, but with anchylosis of this joint. Several years have elapsed, during which he has enjoyed most excellent health, and has been able to do good service with his regiment both in the Crimea and in India. A young lady has measles, and discharge from the left ear followed. She was up and about, when she was seized one day with a violent rigor, and then came symptoms of a low, typhoid character. Mr. Hewett saw her four or five days after the ushering in of those symptoms. The skin was then of a dusky hue throughout, the typhoid symptoms well marked, and there had been a second rigor the day previous ; the discharge from the ear had stopped from the first; there was no pain in the head and no pain nor swelling about the ear or neighbouring parts, but there was tenderness upon pressure along the course of the left internal jugular vein, and some slight swelling with pain over and around the left sterno- clavicular articulation. The swelling increased, and in a few days a large abscess formed ; the matter was speedily let out; then came lobular pneumonia of the left lung; intense pain on the inner side of the left knee, with some puffiness of the joint itself; similar appearances followed about the corresponding ankle-joint; and finally an enormous abscess formed in the neighbourhood of the left hip-joint; this was deeply situated, but as soon as practicable the matter was let out by a free incision. From this time the symptoms began to mend, the lung affection subsided gradually, and so too did the pain and swelling about the knee- and ankle-joints. After a lingering illness of many weeks the restoration to health was perfect, and so it has remained for upwards of a year and a half.