19S REPORT ON SUKGERY. there is simple oedema, to-morrow there will be an ichorous infiltration ; so it proceeds till death occurs. The author has found the vessels almost always normal, except that the venous walls were tinged red. The disease is really a progressive gangrene of the cellular tissue; it has been called by Pirogoff acute purulent oedema. Of nine cases in which it occurred, seven were severe machinery accidents; one was a serious operation for a fibrous polypus of the pharynx ; one was a simple amputation below the knee for a pulsating carcinoma of the tibia. Death took place— Once on the 4th day, „ „ 6th „ ,. >i 7th <> Twice „ 8th „ Once ,, 9th „ u j, 12th The course of the ninth case was so modified by an early amputation that it could not be included ; it must also be mentioned that the disease was interrupted and the duration prolonged by the same operation in the patients who died on the seventh, eighth, and twelfth days. The general condition is very significant; the patient suffers only during the first day or two; as the ichorous infiltration begins, there usually occurs a species of torpor, a symptom foreboding evil in such a case. He is very thirsty and the tongue is dry and brown, yet he is unconcerned about his wounds ; he expresses little pain when they are dressed, and not unfrequently answers with a trembling, hoarse voice to the question how he is, " Very well." Such patients are generally delirious, but quiet; often they seem to be calmly sleeping ; they generally give correct answers to questions ; whilst pysemic patients tremble with anxiety when the sur- geon approaches them, these appear indifferent as to what is done with them. This early participation of the sensorium is a very characteristic symptom of septicaemia; it is never entirely absent, though it may vary in degree. In the cases running a rapid course there is often no other symptom. A gradually increasing soporous condition is the prelude to death. In the less acute cases there may be diarrhoea and vomiting. The fever.—In none of the nine cases were there rigors, nor could any paroxysms be traced with the thermometer. Thus in a case of compound luxation of the foot there was no fever up to the fourth day, on the even- ing of which the temperature was 37*3°. In the night there commenced an infiltration of the leg, and on the ensuing morning the temperature waa 40*i°. The patient refused amputation because he had no pain. He died on the eighth day, up to which time the temperature remained high, its lowest point being 390. No special type can be traced in the fever, nor can more be asserted than that septicaemia is often accompanied by a high temperature and continued fever. Should the case last some time, and there be besides diarrhoea and vomiting, it may end with symptoms of inanition and a low temperature; whilst if its course be rapid, and the patient robust, the temperature remains abnormally high even in the agony. A rapid and considerable increase of the temperature on the third or fourth day, with delirium and a somnolent state, when there is an ichorous appearance of