854 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. mS the size of the foetus appears to increase in successive preg- nancies ; a, the configuration of the lower part of the uterus is less regular and favorable for the long progress of the labour, in consequence ot the pressure it has undergone in former labours between the head of the child and the pelvic bones, and hence the position of the foetus is not so good; 3, the pains are less regular in subsequent pregnancies. It is difficult to say what precise measurements of the pelvis indicate, or not, the operation. Much depends on the form of the pelvic inlet, whether the projection forwards be in the middle line or not, and on the manner in which the head presents at the inlet. Indications for the operation are also conditions threatening the life of the mother— uterine haemorrhage, placenta praevia, &c. Two instances coming under this head are given, in which there was excessive dis- tension of the uterus with fluid (hydramnios), cedematous swelling without albuminuria, loss of appetite, and insomnia, and in which the operation was had recourse to. A third series of indications have been laid down by various authors, viz., the habitual death of the foetus in the last months of pregnancy. The only condition with which the author is familiar at present under such circumstances is a dropsical state of the foetus, with evident affection of the blood-corpuscles, and these have been constantly observed in cases where there was constitutional syphilis in the parents. The proper treatment in such cases is an anti-syphilitic one, and not induction of premature labour. The period of pregnancy at which the operation was undertaken was as follows :—In two cases at the thirtieth week; in one case of extreme pelvic deformity at the thirty-second week ; in one case at the same period, when there was a firm, unyielding tumour of the sacrum. Pour of these children lived. In five cases labour w>as induced at the thirty- fourth week, and three of the children lived. In ten cases at the thirty- fifth week; two of the children were stillborn, the others lived. The presentations were—in the seventeen cases, cephalic ; in four the feet presented; in three cases, position transverse; in two cases there was prolapsus of funis. The method employed was to select the simplest at first, and this failing to induce uterine action, to have recourse to other more powerful measures. Sucking the breasts by means of an india-rubber apparatus was employed, but with very little result, in three cases. It was never alone sufficient. The colpeurynter was employed in two cases, once after sucking had been tried; in the other case, after fourteen fruitless injections of aqua picea into the uterine cavity. The vaginal douche was employed in twelve cases; only twice did it alone succeed, and three times it was necessary to employ a sponge to dilate the os; in one case it induced haemorrhage. Sponge tents were employed in four cases, always after the vaginal douche had been tried. Active pains and dila- tations of os set in in all cases not later than twenty-eight hours after its introduction. Warm water was injected into the uterus, between it and the membranes, in four cases, in the first two the results were satisfactory, but in the other two they were such as to lead the author not to employ this method further. He thinks it not impossible that haemorrhage inay be produced by repeated injections after this method,