REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 410 for one or two hours at a temperature of about 8o° C. The liquid must then be straiiied through a wetted linen cloth, and the residue extracted with hot, acidulated water. After neutralizing with ammonia, it is to be evaporated to dryness in the water bath. The dry residue must now be treated repeatedly with hot amylic alcohol, and 'the solu- tion filtered ; the filtrate is to be agitated in a cylindrical vessel with boiling water acidulated with hydrochloric acid, from which, on standing, the alcohol (which has been deprived of the alkaloid it contained) may be separated with a pipette, and the process repeated as often as neces- sary. The acid fluid must now be concentrated, saturated with ammonia, and again treated with hot amylic alcohol, which, in its turn, separates the free alkaloid from the watery liquid. On evaporating this solution the alkaloid is obtained in a state of sufficient purity to exhibit its characteristic reactions. The authors found that one grain of morphia dissolved in three or four pounds of putrid meat could be almost entirely recovered by this method. Similar experiments were made with strychnine, nicotine, and coniine, the results being equally satisfactory. One of the authors (Erdmann) has also directed his attention to the improvement of the existing methods of discriminating between the several alkaloids after they have been separated in a state of comparative purity, the main object of the inquiry being to devise a series of tests capable of being applied successively to the same quantity of alkaloid. The importance of this is obvious when it is remembered how small the quantities frequently are which must be operated on in toxicological inquiries. The process proposed is founded on the so- called " colour-tests " exclusively. Aconitine. Liegeois ; Hottot.—On the Action of Aconitine on the Animal Economy, Journ. de Physiol., vol. iv, p. 520. The author, having found the methods hitherto proposed for the separation of this alkaloid unsatisfactory, has devised the following process, by which the preparations in his experiments were obtained. Powdered aconite root is macerated in alcohol of 85 per cent., slightly acidulated with sulphuric acid, and the product heated over the water hath. Thereupon the liquid is allowed to cool, after which as much of the oil which floats on the surface as can be skimmed off is remoA-ed. The liquid is then evaporated to the consistence of a syrup, and agitated with ether, by decanting which the remainder of the oil is got rid of. The residue must now be treated with water and precipitated with magnesia in excess, and again repeatedly agitated with its weight of ether. The ether, on decautation and spontaneous evaporation, yields the alkaloid in an impure state. By dissolving it in dilute sulphuric acid, decolorising with animal charcoal, and precipitating with ammonia, again dissolving and again precipitating, it is obtained in a state of complete purity; the aconitine thus prepared contains 25 per cent, of water, of which it may be deprived by heating it to 850 C., at which temperature it fuses. At higher temperatures it is decomposed without subliming, ammonia being disengaged. It is scarcely soluble in water,