HEMORRHAGE. 347 tions. Another who has had five children had four transverse presenta- tions, and the pelvis is contracted in this case also. In cases where version is found difficult or impracticable in cases of arm presentation, the author considers it bad practice to take off the arm, because it is not the arm lying in tbe vagina which prevents the introduction of the band into tbe° uterus, but the shoulder blocking up the pelvic cavity, in a greater or less degree, and because, if evisceration or decapitation be determined on, the means of delivering the body by traction, which the arm would have afforded, is lost. DISEASES, ETC., OF CHILD IMPEDING- DELIVERY. Ket, Dr.—Protracted Labour from Hypertrophy of the Foetal Kidneys. Ed. Med. Journ., July, 1862. Tbe breech presented, the labour was tedious, pains weak and inef- fective for three or four days. They then set in more forcibly ; no progress being made, the leg was brought down and traction exercised, without avail. A blunt hook was passed over the other groin, and after using much force the two limbs were delivered, and half an hour later, with some difficulty, the rest of the body. The difficulty was found to have arisen from the belly being largely swollen, containing a pint of fluid, and a considerable enlargement of both kidneys, equal in degree on the two sides. One was weighed—eleven and a half ounces. The kidney (examined by Dr. Alexander E. Simpson) was found to be enlarged by presence of an excessive amount of inter-tubular substance only, giving the whole organ an unusually soft and succulent appear- ance. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OE PLACENTA, ETC. (see HEMORRHAGE). HEMORRHAGE DEEORE, DURING, OR AETER DELIVERY. Wilson, Dr. J. G-.—Two cases of Concealed Accidental Haemorrhage at the full term of Utero-Gestation. Grlasg. Med. Journ., Jan., 1862, p. 439. In the first case, a primipara, set. 34, the patient, on the eve of her confinement, was suddenly seized with great faintness and exhaustion ; was found in a state bordering on syncope, with a small, thready pulse, and general pallor and coldness ; she complained of dizziness, nausea, dimness of vision, ringing sound in the ears. No labour-pains, no ex- ternal haemorrhage. At right side of fundus was felt a prominent, distinct swelling, which was not previously observed ; it had a doughy feel, and was the seat of a bursting sensation. The os only admitted tip of finger. The membranes were at once punctured and ergot given. In three hours labour came on, and in four hours delivery of a stillborn, anaemic child was effected by the forceps. Eirm external pressure em- ployed, and stimulants given during labour. Two or three large coagula followed the placenta, and the latter had a bell-shaped excavation on uterine surface, filled with coagulum. Fatient slowly recovered. A second case is related, where death took place suddenly at full time, the