REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEHIA MBDICA. 402 property of producing complete aphonia without any more serious effects than those of intense irritation of the mouth and fauces. Algae. Dannect.—On the preparation of the Extract of Fucus vesiculous Bull, de Ther. lxiii, p. 160. In consequence of the papers of M. Duchesne Duparc, this drug has been largely employed in France as a remedy for adiposity. M. Duparc gives the extract for this purpose in doses amounting to about a drachm daily. Under its action the urine is increased in quantity and altered in character, the appetite is increased, and emaciation follows, without the slighest interference with digestion. The extract is prepared as follows:—The plant is gathered during the period of fructification, immediately before the bursting of the concep- taeles, and dried in the sun till it becomes friable. It is then pul- verized and macerated three days with four times its weight of alcohol of 86°. The residue, after expression, is again twice treated with alcohol of 54°, and the liquids of the three processes mixed and filtered. The filtrate is then reduced by distillation and evaporation to the con- sistence of extract, which is administered in the form of pill. Fungi. On the Death of several Horses in consequence of being fed on Mouldy Oats. (Translated from the ' Veterinarian.') Journ. de Pharni., July, 1862. Six horses, belonging to one proprietor, and fed on the same corn, died suddenly after symptoms of poisoning., The corn was analysed by Mr. Tuson, who was unable to detect any mineral poison. By way of experiment, an old mare was fed on the suspected corn for several days. On the fourth the animal began to totter in walking; towards evening it fell, and could not get up again, and the author found that the hind limbs were paralysed. Sensibility was impaired, the visible mucous membranes were pale, the pupils dilated, the breathing quick, and the pulse feeble (50). Death followed in two days. The dissection revealed no pathological appearance. The physical and structural characters of the grains of oats are described by Mr. Tuson as follows:—The oats have a mouldy smell. Each grain is covered with a grayish, easily detached, pulverulent material, and exhibits on section a blackish centre, of horny consistence. Both substances appear under the microscope to consist mainly of spores, and on more careful examination, tubes of aspergillus, each terminated by a globular head, can be distinctly made out. Feemt.—On Malt, and its employment in various Diseases. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xli, p. 426. For several years malt has been employed as a medicine in Germany, and appears to have been exhibited with marked success in certain catarrhal affections of the bronchial mucous membrane, and in various forms of dyspepsia. M. JYemy has employed it in the form of decoction of the powder (ns prepared at Baruth, near Berlin), and regards it as tonic and analeptic, by reason of the considerable proportion of diastase which it contains. It has been found that the decoction, obtained by macerating the malt powder for an hour in water, at a temperature of