REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. 152 the chest or bowel,.where it docs not cause much pain or disablement, and, abovo all, where the patient is old, unhealthy, or has actually diseased organs, he discountenances operating. Martin, J. R., C.B., F.R.S.—Lancet, Dec. 20th. Remarks on the great frequency of hepatic disease in the sultry plains of India, and states that the severity of acute hepatitis is such that the chance of death is greater from one such attack than from thirteen of fever of the various ordinary forms. European children, however, enjoy a marked exemption from this disease, which depends on the absence in them of alcoholic stimulation, of repletion with animal food, and of indolent habits. Cockle.-—On some Points connected with the Past and Present Histoiy of Diabetes, and on a Less Common Form of Death in this Disease. Lancet, Jan. 1 ith. Cockle is inclined to favour the hypothesis, that a peculiar virus or ferment exists in the blood, and causes the excessive development of sugar. He does not accept the view that irritation of the medulla oblongata is essentially concerned in the production of the phenomena. He records three cases of diabetes, in which intense pain in some part, attended with collapse, set in shortly before death. Richardson, R. W.—Lectures on Diabetes. Med. T. and Gaz., March 8 th, May 10th. Richardson, in support of the view that the disease depends upon dis- ordered action of the liver secondary to lesion of the nervous system, refers to two cases under his observation. ' In the first of these the patient found his symptoms always much aggravated when in his trade of house-painting he had to look constantly upwards with his head thrown back as in painting a ceiling. In the other convulsions and symptoms of meningitis had existed during life, and after death a cal- careous growth was found pressing upon the pons Varolii, and an abscess in the posterior cerebral lobes. Taedieu.—Lond. Med. Gaz., Feb. 1862. Records a case of diabetes connected with lesion of the fourth ventricle. Symptoms of paralysis of the left side existed for three months, but the diabetes persisted until death from phthisis at the end of two years. The medulla oblongata in the vicinity of the fourth ventricle was injected, and of a dark grey colour. Hughes, J., M.D.—Cases of Diabetes Mellitns; Saccharine Treatment. DublinQ. J. of Med. Sc., May, 1862. Hughes relates four cases in which this plan was tried for a longer or shorter period. It produced no pennanent improvement in any, but increased the saccharine quality of the urine, and did not alter its specific gravity. The daily amount was considerably decreased, but Hughes ascribes this result to the patient's controlling his desire" for fluids. Two