52 REPORT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. vesicle containing a little reddish-yellow serum. There then ensued a blackening aud hardening of the immediately surrounding and subjacent tissues, which rapidly extending itself, ended by invading a large area. This process was attended by wide-spread swelling and iidiltration of the neigh- bouring parts, which put on the aspect of malignant erysipelas. In several cases chains of inflamed lymphatics were seen passing down from the seat of the disease Over the forehead and down the neck, [none severe double pleurisy occurred as a result of the general infection. In all there was everything to show that at its onset the malady was purely local. At first there wa- an entire absence of constitutional disorder, and several of the patients were well enough to follow their usual occupations for two or three days after the first appearance of the characteristic vesicle. When the general symptoms set in, they were chiefly marked by great and rapidly growing prostration, by frequent pulse, hurried breathing, and other well-known signs of septic poisoning. All terminated fatally within a period ranging from the fourth to the eighth day. When the disease began in the hp, which was the case in the great majority, the enormous prominence of the mouth, its hard and rigid state, and its almost black colour, caused a peculiar and hideous dis- figurement, which was in the highest degree characteristic. In all the cases that were narrowly watched from the first, a second crop of vesicles made its appearance as the disease advanced in the immediate neighbourhood of the first. In the patients under Dr. Budd's own care, the breath exhaled a peculiar and most repulsive odour. The French and Germans seem to have established the important point that the disease, inevitably fatal as it is when left to itself, may be certainly arrested in its early stage by the use of powerful escharotics. Furneaux, Jordan.—Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 27th. He records a case of malignant pustule (pustular cellulitis ?) in the arm. The disease lasted eight weeks, and terminated fatally after amputation. The day of the operation the arm was greatly swollen, the skin extensively gangrenous, and in parts unaffected by the gangrene was covered with pustules resembling syphilitic lepra tuberculosa. The forearm, after amputation, appeared like a large fibrous tumour, enclosing the bones and muscles, which were unaltered, save that the muscles were a shade paler than usual. The vessels were healthy and pervious. The nerves were singularly much increased in size, the median being like the sciatic nerve of a child. At the sloughing and gangrenous spots the greyish, hard con- nective tissue became yellow, and enclosed here and there a few small masses of concrete pus; but it still remained tough, resisting, resilient, and dry. The hard grey parts consisted of nucleated (one, two, or three nuclei, mostly in process of division) cells, round, oval, and elongated, very variable in size. In the yellow pus-like parts the cells had imdergone fatty degeneration. The lungs were ocdematous, the left upper lobe consolidated. Gausten.—On Malignant Pustule in Human Beings (Milz-brand vergij- tung). Wien, Wchnbl. xvii, 45, 46, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb. vol. p. 183. . . The disease always commenced with the characteristic vesicle, or, in a smgle