REPORT ON MIDWIFERY j ETC. 340 believes, should not be employed, but the delivery hastened rather turning or use of the forceps. Brittain, J. Lewis.—Repented Twin Births. Ed. Med. Journ Nov 1862. In a case related by the author there had been fourteen pregnancies, and twenty-five children, twins having occurred eleven times. Of the eleven cases of twins, in eight both children were born at the full time; in two one foetus was aborted about the third month, the other being carried to the full time ; in one she miscarried of both at the fourth month. Of eight cases of twins born at full time, the sex was boy and girl five times; both girls twice ; both boys once. TTNNATURAI; PRESENTATIONS. Martin, Dr. Joseph.—The Mechanism and Treatment of Labours with Face Presentations. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. nth, 18th, 1862. The author believes that cases of face presentations should not be left to the natural efforts, and he enters on an argument to prove that it is proper to interfere and alter the position of the head in such cases. He proposes that, in cases of face presentation, the face should be converted into a vertex presentation. He contends that there is much that is erroneous taught on the subject of the mechanism of this presen- tation. His explanation of the circumstance is that lateral obliquity of the uterus at the beginning of labour is the cause; that the head does not really enter the pelvis in the abnormal position; and that the chin is not, as has been supposed, extended from the beginning to the end of the labour. He proposes that the face should be converted into a vertex presentation in all cases, and he believes that if this plan were adopted the mortality of face-presentation labours would be lessened. The arguments used by recent writers against rectification in this manner are severally considered and replied to. Eamsbotham, Dr.—Clinical Midwifery. Med. Times and Graz., vol. ii, 1862, pp. 517. The cases of transverse presentation which came under the author's notice during five years' practice (1840—1844) are here related. The author takes occasion to remark that, whenever the uterus has been contracting regularly and naturally during the first stage of labour, and ceases to act for some hours after the membranes are broken, provided the child lies so high that the presentation cannot be touched at all or only with difficulty, these two circumstances together are highly suspicious of the case being one of transverse presentation. He has on many occasions predicted that such would be the case before seeing the patient, and judging merely from the history furnished. Ano- ther point is that some women seem to be much more liable to these irregularities than others. One woman out of seven deliveries had two transverse presentations; and in another case a woman, with a small pelvis, out of twelve children suffered seven transverse presenta-