42 KKI'OKT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINK. greatly diminished, in sonic it is not at all. The chlorides were never absent in any of the eases, but were much diminished during the fever days, and afterwards increased gradually. In one case in which M. Bright, set in the chlorides diminished very little. The urinary water during the fever is often not diminished, sometimes it is increased. Albumen appeared in the urine in one case out of twenty-one during the fever days; in eighteen cases under observation for a long time it appeared in seven during the fever-free days. The time of its appearance varied from the ninth to the twenty-third day ; its continuance from three to nine days. There is no necessary connexion between the intensity of the inflam- mation (as tested by the elevation of the temperature) and the amount or duration of albumen in the urine. Blood to a large amount may occur in the urine with the slightest trace of albumen. When blood does appear there is always a previous rise of the temperature. Ringer tries to prove that in health there is a daily and a five days' cycle of tissue change, and that in fever there is a great increase of these cycles of tissue change, from which results the great elevation of the temperature. Laycock (Med. Times and Gaz. July 19th) reports three cases of scarlatina anginosa, one complicated with diphtheria, in which cold affusions or the cold wet sheet were used beneficially. In one case its application was followed by profuse perspiration, in another it lowered the tem- perature of the skin many degrees, but only for an hour. Christian, E. P., A.M., M.D.— On the Epidemic Relationship of Zymotic Diseases. Amer. Q. J. of Med. Sc., July, 1862. Christian observed the simultaneous prevalence in a very marked manner of diphtheria, scarlatina anginosa, erysipelatoid inflammation, and sloughing, and puerperal metritis. »— Searle, A.—Remarks on Scarlet Fever. Amer. Med. Times, Aug. 9th. Searle finds a kind of stock or cravat, containing hops, and dipped in hot vinegar, applied round the neck, of the utmost use in scarlatiua anginosa. Secondary fever and dropsy he finds to require a very thorough anti- phlogistic treatment. Serre (J. de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., vol. xxxiii, p. 455) records several cases showing the good effect of general blood-letting 111 cerebral and thoracic complications of scarlatiua. In one case the venesection was performed three times. GrtaL.—GIU. Led. on Typhus Fever. Med. Times and Gaz. April 5th^ Gull remarks on the great malignity the disease has shown lately. He views it not so much as a blood-disease, but as one of the nervous system inducing exhaustion of the heart and blood-vessels, even to the capillaries. The various tissues become engorged, and exudations take place. Gull says that the disease has a definite course, the patient must get worse ap to a certain date (about the fifteenth or sixteenth day), after which he will improve. He rejects the zymotic theory, and rather behoves that the