REPORT ON MIDWIFERY. 370 Hewitt, Dr. Graily.—On the Uterine Douche as a Therapeutic Agent; new instrument. Eeport of Obstet. Soc, Lancet, Feb. 22nd, 1862. Believing the uterine douche to be a most important agent in the treatment of certain chronic uterine ailments, the author has been led to construct an instrument by means of which continuous irrigation of the vaginal part of the uterus with fluid may be more readily and easily carried out than by the ordinary apparatus employed. The new instrument consists of a reservoir, folding up when not used, and hold- ing nearly a gallon of water, and a long, flexible tube. The fluid is in- jected by the action of gravitation alone; no manual force is necessary to be employed. Keiller, Dr.—Induction of Premature Labour in cases of Constitutional Affections. Ed. Med. Journ., 1861-62, p. 878. The author brought before the Obstetrical Society of Edinburgh some cases in which pregnancy was associated with various constitutional diseases, and in which he had found some difliculty in deciding as to the propriety of inducing premature labour to save the patient's life or mitigate her sufferings. In a case of double acute bronchitis, with great dyspnoea, labour was induced, with the effect of relieving the pa- tient, but the child was not quite viable. The next was a case of phthisis, in which the dyspnoea was very intense. Labour was induced, and a live child obtained, the patient being, in consequence, very much relieved. In a case of cardiac disease and a case of cerebral disease, the operation was contemplated, but not performed. A case of severe vomiting was also mentioned in which the patient had died from the effects of the vomiting, at the third or fourth month. He regretted that the uterus had not been emptied in this case. SPECIAL DISEASES. VERSIONS, ETC., OE UTERUS. Cowan, Charles.—Case of Inversion of the Uterus occurring spon- taneously eighty hours after Delivery. Ed. Med. Journ., 1861-62, p. 1105. The subject of the case, aet. 40, was delivered by the forceps of her first child. The placenta was found in the vagina ten minutes after- wards, and removed. In half an hour there was slight, easily restrained haemorrhage. The uterus was found firmly contracted upwards of an hour after; a bandage applied, and morphia given. On the morning of the fourth day all was going on well; in the evening she became ill, had palpitation, sickness, and a pulse of 112. There was no apparent reason for this change. The next day she was incoherent, pulse 130, and very weak; examination requested and refused, patient stating " all was right." On sixth day pulse 150; foetor now very offensive, and examination insisted on. The vagina was found occupied by the uterus, inverted. It was then found that on the day she became worse she had got out of bed and, in the absence of the nurse, walked across the