18 HEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. soon, namely, as the stimulating influence of the blood is powerful enough to act upon the ganglions, the systole at once begins, and by emptying the heart, removes from it the stimulating cause. ' Colin's observations were made on horses, donkeys, oxen, dogs and cats. He finds that in mammals, while the ven© cava? exhibit, near their termination in the auricle, a very manifest rhythmical action, which takes place independently of the movements of the heart, in the Buperior vena cava these rhythmical actions are very powerful and extended, but in the inferior vein they are weak and limited. It is especially in large animals that the vena cava superior is seen to dilate, near its junction with the auricle, so as to form a vast sinus. Its fibres do not extend into the auricle. The rhythmical movements of the vein are usually synchronous with those of the auricle. But when the heart acts irregularly the pulsations of the sinus become isochronous with those of the auricle. These venous pulsations do not depend on the impulses of the heart, nor on the contractions of the auricle, nor on the reflux of blood. The dilatations take place when a ligature is tied round the vein at the point where it is inserted into the auricle. The vein is but slightly contracted during the systole. Colin thinks that the purpose of these rhythmical contractions is to facilitate and to regulate the afflux of blood to the heart, and that this action is of special value to quadrupeds during the time in which they bend their heads to the ground. Schiff thinks that the following experiment proves conclusively that active dilatation is a function possessed by the blood-vessels. He chooses a rabbit in which the central artery of the ear is well seen and moderately dilated, and gently tickles the skin which covers the artery in an extent of two or three lines. Almost instantaneously the artery begins to dilate in the part thus touched. 'No contraction whatever precedes this dilatation, and just above and below the part acted upon the vessel maintains its former size. The result was the same in cases in which the sympathetic nerve of the same side had been previously divided, or the superior cervical ganglion removed. The conclusions which SchhT draws from these observations are—ist. That vascular dilatation following upon irritation is not always preceded by con- striction of the vessel; that, therefore, dilatation of vessels may take place without its being the effect of exhaustion of their circular fibres, and. That the dilatation in the above experiment is not the mechanical result of mere afflux of blood to the irritated part; for if this were the case, the dilatation would not be so well restricted to the irritated spot, but would be most developed just below, in the more central part. 3rd. That the dilatation spoken of is not the mechanical effect of a contraction produced by reflex action in a more peripheral part or in the venous system, for in this case also the dilatation would not be restricted to the irritated spot. 4th. That the sympathetic nerve does not contain any vascular nerves which preside over this kind of active dilatation. The dilatation, however, does not take place independently of nerves, for if all the sensory nerves of the ear are