11EP0RT ON PHYSIOLOGY. urea increased to $-0$ grammes; when six grammes of glycocoll were added, it increased to 6-8 grammes. Simultaneously with this increase of urea glycogene is probably formed, for sugar and urea may be theoreti- cally regarded as products of the decomposition of glycocoll. The same dog, after having been kept without food for live days, was fed with five grammes of glycocoll dissolved in water, and was killed two and a half hours afterwards. The blood and the liver contained much sugar, the latter also a considerable quantity of glycogene. If in the living bodj' glycogene is formed from glycocoU, this latter substance may be derived from the glycocholic acid of bile which has been absorbed from the intestines, or from chondrine, which is formed from the albuminous substances of the liver. To decide this question Kiithe opened the gall-bladder of a dog, and tied the common bile- duct. The dog was put on meat diet for eight days, and was then killed two and a half hours after a full meal. The liver did not contain any glycogene, and scarcely a trace of sugar. This experiment was repeated several times with the same result, and Kiithe concludes there- from that glycogene is not formed from the albuminous substances of the liver, but from the products of the decomposition of bile. Still the quantity of glycocoll contained in the bile is probably not sufficient to produce all the glycogene of the liver. It might be theoretically assumed that a certain quantity of glycocoll is derived from the decompo- sition of taurine. A dog was therefore kept without food for eight days. On the ninth day it had administered to it four grammes of taurine and some water, and was killed two and a half hours afterwards. The liver was found to contain much glycogene and sugar. Some of the latter was also detected in blood taken from the carotid of the animal. Kiithe thinks that the formation of sugar is not the chief function of the liver; that it is, on the contrary, merely an after effect of the secretion of bile, as the latter yields the substances from the decomposition of which glycogene and urea are produced. He adds that diabetes mellitus, as it occurs in the human subject, is dependent on an increased secretion of bile; the diabetes which is artificially produced in animals, on the other hand, on an increased transformation of glycogene into sugar. Heynsius doubts whether the glycogene is entirely formed from glycocoll and taurine, and states that dogs, from which all bile is artificially removed before it gets into the intestines, have nevertheless always sugar in their liver. , The large quantity of sugar ('43 per cent.) which has been found m the liver of dogs, after no particle of bile had been allowed to enter the intestines for twelve days, proves that sugar is not exclusively formed from the absorbed constituents of bile. Heynsius thinks that the reason why Kiithe did not find any glycogene in the liver of his dogs is to be found in the circumstance of his 'having only made use of the iodine reaction in many cases, and of having added too much glacial acetic acid in others. The latter test Heynsius believes to be the more susceptible, iwo volumes of glacial acetic acid must be added to one volume ot decoction of liver. The time best adapted for examination is from three to eight hours after a meal, but not earlier.