203 BURNS. Professor Traube publishes some cases (' Wien. Med. Wochens.,' 1862, pp. 37, <J2) to show, that fever of a markedly remittent type is often caused by the termination of an inflammation in the formation of abscess. The remittent character, however, disappears as soon as the matter has a free outlet; it is, therefore, not dependent on the formation of pus.* WOUNDS. A woman came to the Westminster Hospital and stated that she had had her nose bitten off by another woman about an hour previously. She brought the piece with her ; it was quite black, and covered with dirt. However, Mr. Slayter washed it in warm water, and carefully sewed it on again with silver wire. In a fortnight it was perfectly attached, and had been adjusted with such accuracy, that it could scarcely be perceived she had ever lost her nose. (' Lancet,' 1861, ii, p. 422.) Dr. E. Hervieux strongly recommends the solution of chloride of lime (one part to six or ten of water) in unhealthy, suppurating wounds, obstinate ulcers, hospital gangrene, and bed-sores. A sponge wet with it is placed on the wound, and covered with a piece of oiled silk and a bandage; this dressing should be renewed four or five times a clay. Suppuration ceases, the wound becomes of a bright-red colour and without smell, finally cicatrization ensues. In a case of sloughing pha- gedsena about the sacrum and coccyx, which occurred in a syphilitic girl, there had been a rapid and extensive spreading of the ulcer within forty- eight hours, notwithstanding most energetic treatment (actual cautery, &c). No further increase took place after the application of the Liq. Calc. Chlor., and ultimately the wound perfectly cicatrized. The author found the sponge to be of importance ; it should be of large size, and not a mere slice. Ulcers connected with diseased bone contra-indicate the use of the solution ; in some cases it may require further dilution up to fifteen parts of water instead of ten. ('L'Union Med.,' 127, 128, 129, i860; 42, 43, 1861 ; and Schmidt's ' Jahrb.,' cxiii, 328.) BURNS. W. Roser's article on burns ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1862, p. 1) is in- structive. Each special means of treatment must be employed in cases, of which the course can be predicted with tolerable certainty, before any definite value can be assigned to it; for otherwise there would always be a doubt as to the part the remedy plays in the cure. The course is, however, in many cases, very uncertain, for it is only in part decided by the immediate injury, and is to a great extent dependent on the amount of subsequent inflammation. Burns heal just in the same way as other destructions of the skin; the common opinion that their cicatrices contract to a peculiar amount is without foundation. Such con- tractions to an extreme degree were found in practice to be almost always * Thermometers constructed specially for use in hospital practice may be obtained tor a few shillings from G. M. Leyser, Median., Leipzig, through Mr. Thimm, Book- seller, 3 Brook Street, Grosvenor Square, London ; each degree from 200 to 470 is divided into five parts.—T. W,