CIRCULATION. 19 divided the same amount of irritation does not produce it. But in nibbing the part with a little more force the dilatation again takes place. If a still greater force is used in rubbing, the vessel will not dilate, but will firmly contract. All this shows that dilatation occurs under the influence of sensory nerves. Another experiment proves that it also takes place under the direct influence of motor nerves. If the sympathetic be divided in the neck of a dog, and the animal kept at rest in the labora- tory, the ear and the head of the operated side will always be found warmer than the other. If, then, the dog be taken into the open air, and somewhat excited by exercise, the temperature of the entire body will rise, and both ears will partake in the general change. Their vessels dilate slightly without any previous contraction when the animal has got out of breath; the arteries and veins of the healthy ear are found more dilated than those on the other side, and the head on that side has got much warmer (sometimes 30 C.) than the opposite half on the other side. After some rest in a cool place the parts will return to their primary state. Schiff thinks that the only explanation consistent with this fact is that, in dividing the sympathetic nerve, tbose agents are paralysed which produce the dilatation on the healthy side. According to Sucquet's investigations, we have to distinguish a double communication of the arteries with the veins, forming two different kinds of circulation. The first, the capillary circulation, called by Sucquet circulatio nutritiva; the second, formed by direct communica- tions of the arteries with the veins, without intervening capillaries, and named by him circulatio derivativa. The smallest connecting arteries of this latter circulation are known to possess—(a) Organic muscles, which are easily seen, and which exist in abundance, (b) Contractility, and this in such a degree as will admit of vessels being entirely shut by it. (c) Vaso-motor nerves, of which a portion governs the con- traction and another the dilatation of these vessels. Thus, he thinks, it becomes intelligible that, as more or less blood enters the veins by these channels, the superficial veins of the head and of the limbs are seen more or less distended by blood. The deep, nutritive circulation remains always unchanged in itself, whilst the derivative circulation varies according to the quantity of the circulating blood, according to the energy and frequency of the heart's action, and according to the action of the vaso-motor nerves. The committee appointed to give a report on the researches of Sucquet adopted the above views. Colin has made numerous experiments on the sensibility of arteries, and finds that the arteries belonging to the organs of animal life are almost insensible, but that those belonging to the organs of organic life are, on the contrary, highly sensitive. When a ligature is passed round a vessel and drawn tight, the animal gives signs of great pain if the vessel is a visceral one. The sensibility would seem to be extrinsic, for it is to all appearance connected with the cellular tissue which surrounds the