CIHCULAXOKY SYSTEM. 113 excited previous to the paralysis. (5) The paralysis of the ventricle does not occur gradually, but suddenly ; the contractions falling from forty-five to thirty-five in three to five minutes after the poisoning, to twenty-five in eight minutes, and to twenty and fifteen in nine minutes, and then suddenly ceasing. Before the cessation the action becomes peristaltic. The auricles, on the contrary, gradually diminish their action to the last, continuing to contract some minutes longer than the ventricles. (6) The rhythm of the heart was not altered during the first few minutes after poisoning, sub- sequently the movement became either peristaltic, the upper part of the ventricle contracting before the lower, or much slower. (7) The above- mentioned poisons do not act on the heart through the brain or spinal cord. Their action is not delayed or altered by destruction of the medulla oblongata, or division of the vagi, or by the previous administration of woorara. Galvanisation of the vagi also produces its usual effects even while the system is under the influence of the poison. (8) Galvanic excitation of the sympathetic when the heart was quite paralysed did not re-excite its action, except in some instances of poisoning by digitalis. (9) The motor nerves of the muscles are also in a less degree affected by these poisons, as a limb which was prevented from receiving the poisoned blood by a ligature preserved its excitability eight to sixteen hours longer than one not so protected. Richter, E.—On the Action of Curare in Strychnine-Poisoning. Nach- richt v. d. Ges. d. Wiss. zu Gott., 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 115, p. 171. Richter finds that animals poisoned by strychnine and then with curare recover, if artificial respiration is maintained long enough to allow of the excretion of the poison. The time necessary for this varies, according to the amount of the poisonous dose, from one to thirteen hours. The rationale of the proceeding is that strychnine induces a tetanic state of the respiratory muscles, in consequence of which the heart's action is stopped as in apncea. Curare has the opposite effect of paralysing the respiratory muscles, which equally induces apncea, but leaves the practicability of performing artificial respiration, during which the heart's action goes on. M'Bride, Alex.—Cantharides as a Therapeutical Agent. Amer. Med. T., Aug. 16th. M'Bride represents this drug as " an agent the most powerful to rekindle the waning spark of vitality" in various asthenic affections, as typhoid pneumonia, animal-poisoning, gangrenous erysipelas, low stages of typhoid tever, cholera. As a general indication for its use, he states, that " when atonic, asthenic, or adynamic disease it is a desideratum, from whatever cause, to produce general or local capillary tonicity, the internal use of canthandes wil be indicated, and in quantity proportional to the urtrencv of the demand. The dose he has given has been usually 3ss to xiss of the tincture alone or in combination with other remedies. He believes that canthandes art primarily upon the capillaries, giving them tone and rnunslm,K their cahbre, whereby congestion is relieved and absorption promoted ; and that its action upon the general constituents of the organism 8