MODERN COOKERY. 4 [[chap. I. used for this purpose, the finest and freshest rice-flour, which after being passed through a lawn-sieve, should be thoroughly blended with the salt, pounded spices, catsup, or wine, required to finish the flavouring of the soup. Sufficient liquid should he added to it very gradually to render it of the consistency of hatter, and it should also he perfectly smooth ; to keep it so, it should he moistened sparingly at first, and heaten with the hack of a spoon until every lump has disappeared. The soup should hoil quickly when the thickening is stirred into it, and be simmered for ten minutes afterwards. From an ounce and a half to two ounces of rice-flour will thicken sufficiently a quart of soup. Instead of this, arrow-root or the condiment known hy the name of tous les mois, which greatly resembles it, or potato- flour, or the French thickening called roux (see page 96 ) may he used in the following proportions :—Two and a half ounces of either of the first three, to four pints and a half of soup ; to he mixed gradually with a little cold stock or water, stirred into the boiling soup, and simmered for a minute. Six ounces of flour with seven of butter,* will he required to thicken a tureen of soup ; as much as half a pound is sometimes ■ftsed; these must he added by degrees, and carefully stirred round in the soup until smoothly blended with it, or they will remain in lumps. All the ingredients used for soups should he fresh, and of good quality, particularly Italian pastes of every kind (macca- roni, vermicelli, &c.), as they contract, hy long keeping, a peculiarly unpleasant, musty flavour. Onions, freed from the outer skin, dried gradually to a deep brown, in a slow oven, and flattened like Norfolk biffins, will keep for almost any length of time, and are extremely useful for heightening the colour and flavour of broths and gravies.f TO FRY BREAD TO SERVE WITH SOUP. Cut some slices a quarter-inch thick, from a stale loaf; pare off the crust, and divide the bread into dice, or cut it with a deep paste-cutter into any other form. For half a pound of bread put two ounces of the best butter into a frying-pan, and when it is quite melted, add the bread; keep it turned, over a * TVe would recommend any other thickening in preference to this unwhole- some mixture. + The fourth part of one of these dried onions (des oignons brCiUs), of moderate size, is sufficient for a tureen of soup. They are sold very commonly in France, and may be procured, we should suppose, without difficulty in London, at the foreign warehouses.