CAKES. 525 CHAP. XXIII.] stiff paste, with new milk. Roll it* thin, cut out the biscuits with a cutter, and bake them in a slow oven until they are crisp quite through, but keep them of a pale colour. A couple of eggs are sometimes mixed with the milk for them, but are no material improvement; an additional ounce of sugar may be used when a sweeter biscuit is liked. To make good ginger cakes, increase the butter to six ounces, and the sugar to eight, for each pound of flour, and wet the ingredients into a paste with eggs: a little lemon-grate will give it an agreeable flavour. Biscuits: flour, 2 lbs.; butter, 3 ozs.; pounded sugar, 3 ozs.; ginger, 2 ozs. Cakes: flour, 1 lb.; butter, 6 ozs.; sugar, 8 ozs.; ginger, 1 oz.; 3 to 4 eggs; rind of | lemon. judge Franks’ ginger biscuits. ( Very good.) With half a pound of fine wheaten flour mix an equal weight of polenta (see page 423), and as much pounded and sifted sugar, with an ounce and a half of ginger, and a grain of salt. Make these ingredients into a smooth paste with thick sweet cream, roll it about a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into small square biscuits with a paste-runner or tin shape, and bake them twenty minutes, or more, in a quite slow oven. # Wheaten flour, polenta, and pounded sugar, each 8 ozs.; ginger, 1 \ oz.; a grain of salt; cream, \ to f pint: 20 to 25 minutes, slow oven. CHESTNUT BISCUITS. A pound and two ounces of fine sound Spanish chestnuts will afford the weight required for these cakes. Make a slight incision in the rinds, but without cutting into the kernels, and throw the chestnuts into a large pan of boiling water; in half an hour, should they be tolerably soft, drain them from it, spread them on a tin, and set them into a gentle oven to dry. They should be well cooked, but without being in the slightest degree hardened. Strip off the rind and skin, and pound them perfectly smooth in a large mortar; weigh three quarters of a pound of this paste, and add to it half a pound of flour, pre- viously well mixed with six ounces of sifted sugar; blend the ingredients thoroughly by working them together with the fingers ; then pour gradually to them a couple of eggs; mould the cakes about the size of a chestnut; wash them with beaten egg mixed with a little milk; and bake them in a quite gentle