402 £chap. XX. MODERN COOKERY. ounce and a half; to this add a pound of Kentish cherries with- out their stalks, and when they are quite warmed through, strew in amongst them four ounces of sugar, and keep the whole well turned over a moderate tire ; pour in gradually half a pint of hot water, and in fifteen minutes the cherries will he tender. Lay the fried bread into a hot dish, pour the cherries on it, and serve them directly. Bread, 4 ozs.; butter, oz. jCherries, 1 lb.; butter, oz.: 10 minutes. Sugar, 4 ozs.; water, \ pint: 15 minutes. Obs.—Black-heart cherries may be used for this dish instead of Kentish ones: it is an improvement to stone the fruit. We think our readers generally would prefer to the above, Morelia cherries stewed from five to seven minutes, in syrup (made by boiling five ounces of sugar in half a pint of water, for a quarter of an hour), and poured hot on the fried bread. Two pounds of the fruit, when it is stoned, will be required for a full-sized dish. SWEET MACCARONI. Drop gently into a pint and a half of new milk, when it is boiling fast, four ounces of fine pipe maccaroni, add a grain or two of salt, and some thin strips of lemon or orange rind : cin- namon can be substituted for these when preferred. Simmer the maccaroni by a gentle fire until it is tolerably tender, then add from two to three ounces of sugar broken small, and boil it till the pipes are soft, and swollen to their full size; drain, and arrange it in a hot dish; stir the milk quickly to the well-beaten yolks of three large, or of four small eggs, shake them round briskly over the fire until they thicken, pour them over the maccaroni and serve it immediately; or instead of the eggs, heat and sweeten some very rich cream, pour it on the drained maccaroni, and dust finely-powdered cinnamon over through a muslin, or strew it thickly with crushed macaroons. For variety, cover it with the German sauce of page 126, milled to a light froth. New milk, 1 \ pint; pipe maccaroni, 4 ozs.; strips of lemon- rind or cinnamon; sugar, 2 to 3 ozs.: f to 1 hour, or more. BERMUDA WITCHES. Slice equally some rice, pound, or Savoy cake, not more than the sixth of an inch thick ; take off the brown edges, and spread one half of it with Guava jelly, or, if more convenient, with fine strawberry, raspberry, or currant jelly of the best quality (see Korman receipt, 478) ; on this strew thickly some fresh cocoa- nut grated small, and lightly; press over it the remainder of the