APPENDIX. 575 it some well-drained whipped cream, which has been slightly flavoured and sweetened. The edge may be glazed when it is first taken from the oven in the same manner as the vol.s-au- vents a la Howitt; or the whipped cream being omitted, small leaves of almond-paste may be laid round it, and others over the preserve; or it may be iced with a white icing, and orna- mented with rose-coloured grains of sugar; and to convert it into an excellent entree (or first course dish) it may be filled with stewed oysters in a rich white sauce, or with fricasseed lobster, or scallops of fowl; but the sauce of either must be thick. Obs.—The fluted cutters * which we have recommended for it are not indispensable in making this tourte, which can be shaped with plain ones, or neatly trimmed, on an emergency, to the size of the dish in which it is to be served, with a knife, the border being also evenly cut with one. A PEAS PUDDING. (To serve with boiled pork.) Separate carefully from a pint of good mellow split peas, all that are worm-eaten ; wash the remainder well, and soak them for a night in plenty of soft water. The following day tie them up in a thick pudding cloth, giving them room to swell, cover them well with cold soft water and boil them gently from two hours to two and a half: if they are not then quite tender, they are of bad quality, and cannot be rendered so. Lift them into a cullender, untie the cloth, and crush them to a paste with a wooden spoon, stir in a good slice of butter, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, tie them up again very tight, and boil them for half an hour; turn the pudding gently into a dish that it may not break, and serve it as hot as possible. This is the com- mon old-fashioned mode of preparing a peas pudding, and many persons prefer it to the more modern one which follows. Soak, and boil the peas as above, drain the water well from them before the cloth is untied, rub them through a cullender or sieve, mix the seasoning and the butter thoroughly with them, then add gradually a couple, or even three well whisked eggs, tie the mixture tightly and closely in a floured cloth, and boil it for one hour. Good split peas, 1 pint; soaked in soft water 1 night. Boiled 2 to 2£ hours. Butter, 1 oz.: salt, pepper : boil again 20 to 30 minutes. Or : butter, \\ oz.; eggs, 2 or 3: boiled 1 hour. * These are so generally useful in making pastry, and forming croustades, &c., that the cook should not be without them.