577 APPENDIX. of a fine neck of veal, from which it was pared with something more than an inch depth of the flesh adhering to it. It was roasted one hour, and answered extremely well. It is a conve- nient mode of dressing the dank of the veal when the flesh is required free from skin and bone for other purposes. TO DEESS REIN DEER TONGUES. These, from being highly dried, require long soaking, but they are very finely flavoured, and excellent eating if well dressed. Lay them into plenty of water for a night, and on the following day take them out, for three or four hours, then lay them again into fresh water, and towards evening let them be for some hours longer exposed to the air. At night lay them into more fresh water, take them out in the morning, scrape and clean them well, and they will be ready to boil. Cover them well with cold water, bring them gently to a boil, clear off the scum perfectly as it rises, and simmer them for about two hours. These tongues may be purchased at any good Italian warehouse. CURRANT SHRUB. Dissolve in a couple of quarts of white, black, or red currant juice, a pound and a half of sugar of the best quality ; then stir to them, a gallon of old Jamaica rum, and stop the vessel closely; leave it for a night, and the following day filter the shrub through blotting paper, and pour it into clean, dry bottles, which should be well corked. It may be kept for any length of time. SAUSAGE SOUP. (Swedish Receipt.) Strip away the decayed leaves from a couple of moderate- sized winter cabbages, or savoys, cut out the stalks, wash and soak the vegetables well, and slice them very thin into a pan of spring water; drain them on a sieve, or in a large cullender, and drop them into three quarts of boiling beef-broth, or soup; add a couple of pounds of sausages in links, and boil the whole gently for half an hour; before it is served, throw in a good seasoning of black pepper, and as much salt as may be required. Prick the sausages before they are put into the soup to prevent their bursting. Mutton or veal broth may be used for this soup instead of bouillon. p r t