MODERN COOKERY. 440 [CHAP. XX. the whole filled up with more jelly : to give the proper effect, it must be recollected that the dish will be reversed when sent to table. QUEEN MAB’S PUDDING. (An elegant summer dish.') Throw into a pint of new milk the thin rind of a small lemon, and six or eight bitter almonds, blanched and bruised; or substitute for these half a pod of vanilla, cut small, heat it slowly by the side of the fire, and keep it at the point of boil- ing until it is strongly flavoured, then add a small pinch of salt, and three quarters of an ounce of the finest isinglass, or a full ounce should the weather be extremely warm ; when this is dissolved, strain the milk through a muslin, and put it into a clean saucepan, with four ounces and a half of sugar in lumps, and half a pint of rich cream ; give the whole one boil, and then stir it briskly and by degrees to the well-beaten yolks of six fresh eggs; next, thicken the mixture as a custard, over a gentle fire, but do not hazard its curdling; when it is of tolerable consistency, pour it out, and continue the stirring until it is half cold, then mix with it an ounce and a half of candied citron, cut in small spikes, and a couple of ounces of dried cherries, and pour it into a mould rubbed with a drop of oil: when turned out it will have the appearance of a pudding. From two to three ounces of preserved ginger, well drained and sliced, may be substituted for the cherries, and an ounce of pistachio-nuts, blanched and split, for the citron ; these will make an elegant variety of the dish, and the syrup of the ginger, poured round as sauce, will be a further improvement. Currants steamed until tender, and candied orange or lemon- rind, are often used instead of the cherries, and the well- sweetened juice of strawberries, raspberries (white or red), apricots, peaches, or syrup of pine-apple, will make an agree- able sauce; a small quantity of this last will also give a delicious flavour to the pudding itself, when mixed with the other in- gredients. Cream may be substituted entirely for the milk, when its richness is considered desirable. New milk, 1 pint; rind 1 small lemon; bitter almonds, 6 to 8 (or, vanilla, \ pod) ; salt, few grains; isinglass, f oz. (1 oz. in sultry weather) ; sugar, 4g ozs.; cream, \ pint; yolks, 6 eggs; dried cherries, 2 ozs.; candied citron, oz. (or, preserved ginger, 2 to 3 ozs., and the syrup as sauce, and 1 oz. of blanched pistachio-nuts; or 4 ozs. currants, steamed 20 minutes, and