88 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. in. hours and a half; then strain it, let it cool, take off every par- ticle of fat, give it a minute’s simmer, and send it very hot to table. Neck, or other trimmings of venison, 1 lb.; water, 1} pint; salt, small ^ teaspoonful; peppercorns, 8 or 10: 2| hours. ANOTHER GRAVY FOR VENISON. Cut small a pound and a quarter of the trimmings of the Venison, pour over them a pint and a half of cold unflavoured mutton broth, and stew them slowly for a couple of hours: add a little salt to the gravy before it is served. Yenison, 11 lb.; mutton broth, 1J pint: 2 hours. Obs.—When venison cannot be had, gravy must be made of lean mutton, thus:—Trim away the fat from some cutlets, and lay them into a stewpan; set them over a clear tire, and let them brown a little in their own gravy ; then add a pint of boiling water to each pound of meat. Take off the scum, throw in a little salt, and boil the gravy until reduced one half. Some cooks broil the cutlets lightly, boil the gravy one hour, and then reduce it after it is strained. A RICH GRAVY FOR VENISON. There are few eaters to whom this would be acceptable, the generality of them preferring infinitely the flavour of the venison itself to any which the richest gravy made of other meats can afford; but when the savour of a well made Espagnole is likely to be relished, prepare it by the receipt of the following page, substituting plain strong mutton stock for the veal gravy. SWEET SAUCE, OR GRAVY FOR VENISON. Add to a quarter-pint of common venison gravy a couple of glasses of port wine or claret, and half an ounce of sugar in lumps. Christopher North’s sauce, mixed with three times its measure of gravy, would be an excellent substitute for this. ESPAGNOLE (SPANISH SAUCE.) (A highly flavoured Gravy.) Dissolve a couple of ounces of good butter in a thick stewpan or saucepan, throw in from four to six sliced eschalots, four ounces of the lean of an undressed ham, three ounces of carrot, cut in small dice, one bay leaf, two or three branches of parsley, and one or two of thyme, but these last must be small; three cloves, a blade of mace, and a dozen corns of pepper; add part