[CIIAP. XX. 452 MODERN COOKERY. just dip the mould into hot, but not boiling water; loosen the edges carefully, and turn out the cream: to save time and trouble the whisking may be omitted, and a plain lemon-cream take place of the sponge. Cream, 1 pint; rind of lemons 2 middling-sized, or 1| large ; isinglass, § oz.; sugar, 7 ozs.; juice of 1± lemon. Obs.—For this, as for all other dishes of the kind, a little more or less of isinglass may be required according to the state of the weather, a larger proportion being needed in summer than in winter. AN APPLE HEDGE-HOG, OR SUEDOISE. This dish is formed of apples, pared, cored without being divided, and stewed tolerably tender in a light syrup. These are placed in a dish, after being well drained, and filled with apricot, or any other rich marma- lade, and arranged in two or more layers, so as to give, when the whole is complete, the form shown in the en- graving. The num- ber required must depend on the size of the dish. From three to five pounds more must be stewed down into a smooth and dry marmalade, and with this all the spaces between them are to be filled 'up, and the whole are to be covered with it; an icing of two eggs, beaten to a very solid froth, and mixed with two heaped tablespoonsful of sugar, must then be spread evenly over the suedoise, fine sugar sifted on this, and spikes of blanched almonds, cut lengthwise, stuck over the entire surface ; the dish is then to be placed in a moderate oven until the almonds are browned, but not too deeply, and the apples are hot through. It is not easy to give the required form with less than fifteen apples; eight of these may first be simmered in a syrup made with half a pint of water and six ounces of sugar, and the remainder may be thrown in after these are lifted out. Care must be taken to keep them firm. The marmalade should be sweet, and pleasantly flavoured with lemon. IMPERIAL GOOSEBERRY-POOL. Simmer a pound of green gooseberries which have been freed from the buds and stalks, in three quarters of a pint of water,