CHAP. XIX.] SOUFFLES, OMLETS, &C. 423 an addition is considered an improvement. As a matter of pre- caution, it is better to boil the cream before the cheese is melted in it; rich white sauce, or bechamel, made not very thick, with an additional ounce or two of butter, may be used to vary and enrich this preparation. If Parmesan cheese* be used for it, it must of course be grated. Half the quantity may be served. Maccaroni, \ lb.; cheese, 10 ozs.; good cream, f pint (or rich white sauce) ; butter, 2 ozs. (or more) ; little salt, fine cayenne, and mace. POLENTA, AN ITALIAN DISH. (GOOD.) Throw into a quart of milk, when it is fast boil- ing, half a teaspoonful of salt, and then shake lightly into it five ounces of the best semoulina; stir the milk as this is added, and continue to do so from eight to ten minutes, letting the mixture boil gently during the time. It should be very thick, and great care must be taken to prevent its sticking to the saucepan^ which should be placed over a clear fire on a bar or trevet, but not upon the coals. Pour the semoulina, when it is done, into a basin, which it will not fill by an inch or two, and let it remain some hours in a cool place, that it may be- come perfectly cold; it will then turn out quite solid, and like a pudding in appearance. Cut it with a large, sharp carving-knife, or a bit of thin wire, into half-inch slices; wash the basin into which it was poured at first, and butter it well; grate from six to eight ounces of good cheese (Parmesan, or any other), and mix with it a half-teaspoonful of cayenne, and twice as much pounded mace ; clarify from two to three ounces of fresh butter, and put a small quantity into the basin, strew in a little of the cheese, and then lay in the first slice of the semou- lina, on this put a thick layer of the cheese, moisten it with some drops of butter, and place the second slice upon it; then e more cheese and butter, and continue thus until all the semou- lina is replaced in the basin; put plenty of cheese upon the top, add the remainder of the clarified butter, and bake the mixture for about half an hour in a gentle oven. It should be of a fine golden colour when served. Turn it carefully into a dish, and send it instantly to table. A little rich brown gravy poured round might, to some tastes, improve it, but it is excellent * The Parmesan being apt to gather into lumps, instead of mingling smoothly with the liquid, had better be avoided for this dish.