MUTTON. CHAP. X.] 229 Mutton, 8 to 9 lbs.; sugar, 4 ozs.; cloves, in powder, 1 des- sertspoonful ; mace, and pepper, 1 teaspoonful each; ginger, \ teaspoonful; salt, 4 ozs.: 8 to 10 days. Beef broth, 1| pint: 4 hours. Obs.—For variety, the inside of the mutton may be thickly strewed with .minced herbs before it is rolled. FORCED SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Cut off all the flesh from the inside of the joint down to the blade-bone, and reserve it for a separate dish. It may be lightly browned with some turnips or carrots, or both, and made into a small harrico, or stewed simply in its own gravy, or it will make in part, a pudding or a pie. Bone the mutton (see page 167), flatten it on a table, lay over the inside some thin and neatly-trimmed slices of striped bacon, and spread over them some good veal forcemeat (hTo. 1, page 143) to within an inch of the outer edge; roll the joint up tightly towards the knuckle (of which the bone may be left in or not, at pleasure), secure it well with tape or twine, and stew it gently in good gravy, from four hours to four and a half. 4 to 41 hours. Obs.—In France it is usual to substitute sausage-meat for the bacon and veal stuffing in this dish. MUTTON CUTLETS STEWED IN THEIR OWN GRAVY. {Good.) Trim the fat entirely from some cutlets taken from the loin; just dip them into cold water, dredge them moderately with pep- per, and plentifully, on both sides with flour; rinse a thick iron saucepan with spring water, and leave a couple of tablespoonsful in it; arrange the cutlets in one flat layer, if it can be done con- veniently, and place them over a very gentle fire ; throw in a little salt when they begin to stew, and let them simmer as softly as possible, but without ceasing, from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. If dressed with great care, which they require, they will be equally tender, easy of digestion, and nutritious; and being at the same time free from everything which can disagree with the most delicate stomach, the receipt will be found a valuable one for invalids. The mutton should be of good quality, but the excellence of the dish mainly depends on its being most gently stewed; for if allowed to boil quickly all the gravy will be dried up, and the meat will be unfit for table. The cutlets must be turned when they are half done: a couple