13 CHAP. I.] SOUPS. done, and simmer it very softly until the grains are tender, but still separate ; drain it, slip it into the soup, and let it remain in it a few minutes before it is served, but without simmering. When stewed in the stock, it may be put at once, after being drained, into the tureen, and the clear gravy-soup may be poured to it. An easy English mode of making rice-soup is this : put the rice into plenty of cold water; when it boils, throw in a small quantity of salt, let it simmer ten minutes, drain it well, throw it into the boiling soup, and simmer it gently from ten to fifteen minutes longer; some rice will be tender in half that time. An extra quantity of stock must be allowed for the reduction of this soup, which is always considerable. WHITE RICE SOUP. Throw four ounces of well-washed rice into boiling water, and in five minutes after pour it into a sieve, drain it well, and put it into a couple of quarts of good white, boiling stock; let it stew till tender; season the soup with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace; stir to it three quarters of a pint of very rich cream, give it one boil, and serve it quickly. Rice, 4 ozs.: boiled 5 minutes. Soup, 2 quarts: £ hour or more. Seasoning of salt, mace, and cayenne; cream, £ pint : 1 minute. RICE-FLOUR SOUP. Mix with a little cold broth, eight ounces of fine rice-fiour, and pour it into a couple of quarts of fast-boiling broth or gravy soup. Add to it mace, and cayenne, with a little salt if needful. It will require but ten minutes’ boiling. Soup, 2 quarts; rice-flour, 8 ozs.: 10 minutes. Ob.s.—Two dessertspoonsful of currie-powder, and the strained juice of half a moderate-sized lemon will greatly improve this soup : it may also be converted into a good common white soup, (if it be made of veal stock), by the addition of three-quarters of a pint of thick cream to the rice. STOCK FOR WHITE SOUP. Though a knuckle of veal is usually preferred for this stock, part of the neck will, on an emergency, answer very well. Whichever joint be chosen, let it be thoroughly washed, once or twice divided, and laid into a delicately clean soup-pot, or well- tinned large stout iron saucepan, upon a pound of lean ham, freed entirely from skin and fat, and cut into thick slices.