52 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. II. lobster sauce and plain melted butter to table with it. This fish, in delicacy and excellence, is little inferior to turbot. TO BOLL SAXMON. In full season from May to August: may be had much earlier, but is scarce and dear. To preserve the fine colour of this fish, and to set the curd when it is quite freshly caught, it is usual to put it into boiling, instead of into cold water. Scale, empty, and wash it with the greatest nicety, and be especially careful to cleanse all the blood from the inside. Stir into the fish-kettle eight ounces of com- mon salt to the gallon of water, let it boil quickly for a minute or two, take off all the scum, put in the salmon and boil it mo- derately fast, if it be small, but more gently should it be very thick; and assure yourself that it is quite sufficiently done be- fore it is sent to table, for nothing can be more distasteful, even to the eye, than fish which is under dressed. From two to three pounds of the thick part of a fine salmon will require half an hour to boil it, but eight or ten pounds will be done enough in little more than double that time; less, in proportion to its weight, should be allowed for a small fish, or for the thin end of a large one. Do not allow the salmon to re- main in the water after it is ready to serve, or both its flavour and appearance will be injured. Dish it on a hot napkin, and send dressed cucumber, and anchovy, shrimp, or lobster sauce, and a tureen of plain melted butter to table with it. To each gallon water, 8 ozs. salt. Salmon, 2 to 3 lbs. (thick); f hour : 8 to 10 lbs., If hour: small, or thin fish, less time. Obs.—A fashionable mode of serving salmon at the present day is to divide the larger portion of the body into three equal parts; to boil them in water, or in a marinade; and to serve them dished in a line, but not close together, and covered with a rich Genevese sauce : it appears to us that the skin should be stripped from any fish over which the sauce is poured, but in this case it is not customary. CRIMPED SALMON. Cut into slices an inch and a half, or two inches thick, the body of a salmon quite newly caught ; throw them into strong- salt and water as they are done, but do not let them soak in it; wash them well, lay them on a fish-plate, and put them into fast-boiling water, salted, and well skimmed. In from ten to fifteen minutes they will be done. Dish them on a napkin, and