3?7 CHAP. XVII.] BOILED PUDDINGS. boil, or it will instantly curdle; pour it over the pudding, or, if preferred, send it to table in a tureen. We think a full tea- spoonful of lemon-juice added to the wine an improvement to this sauce, which is excellent; and we can recommend the pud- ding also to our readers. Milk, If pint; rice, 3 ozs.: 1 hour, or more. Suet, 3 ozs.; sugar, 2f ozs.; candied peel, 1 oz.; sultana raisins, 6 ozs.; eggs, 3 large: 2f hours. Sauce: sherry, 2 glasses; sugar, If oz.; jmlks of eggs, 3; little lemon-juice. We have already, in a previous part of the volume, directed that the German sauce should be milled to a fine froth, and poured upon the pudding with which it is served : when this is not done, the quantity should be increased. A CABINET PUDDING. Split and stone three dozens of fine jar raisins, or take an equal number of dried cherries, and place either of them regu- larly, in a sort of pattern, in a thickly-buttered plain quart mould or basin ; next, slice and lay into it three penny sponge- cakes ; add to these two ounces of ratifias, four macaroons, an ounce and a half of candied citron, sliced thin, the yolks of four eggs with the whites of three only, thoroughly whisked, mixed with half a pint of new milk, then strained to half a pint of sweet cream, and sweetened with two ounces and a half of pounded sugar: these ought to fill the mould exactly. Steam the pudding, or boil it very gently for one hour; let it stand a few minutes before it is dished, that it may not break; and serve it with good wine or brandy sauce. Jar raisins, or dried cherries, 3 dozens (quart mould or basin); sponge biscuits, 3; macaroons, 4 ; ratifias, 2 ozs.; candied citron. Is oz.; yolks of 4 eggs, whites of 3; new milk, | pint; cream, | pint; sugar, 2* ozs.: steamed, or boiled, 1 hour. Obs.—We have given this receipt, for which we are indebted to a friend, without any variation from the original, because on testing it we have found it very exact with regard to quantity and time ; but though an extremely delicate and excellent pud- ding, a little flavouring would, we think, improve it: a small portion of the milk may be omitted, and its place supplied by ratifia, lemon-brandy, or aught else that is preferred. A VERY PINE CABINET PUDDING. Butter thickly a mould of the same size as for the preceding pudding, and ornament it tastefully with dried cherries, or if these are not procurable, with the finest bloom raisins opened