ciiap. xii.] POULTRY. 267 it cool; next, having first skimmed off the fat, put it into a clean saucepan, with a quarter-pint of cream, an ounce and a half of butter, well mixed with a dessertspoonful of flour, a little pounded mace, and grated lemon-rind; keep these stirred until they boil, then put in the fowl, finely minced, with three or four hard-boiled eggs, chopped small, and sufficient salt, and white pepper, or cayenne, to season it properly. Shake the mince over the fire until it is just ready to boil, stir to it quickly a squeeze of lemon juice, dish it with pale sippets of fried bread, and serve it immediately. When cream cannot easily be obtained, use milk, with a double quantity of butter and flour. The eggs may be omitted; the mince may be warmed in good white sauce, and a border formed round it of leaves of pastry, fried or baked; or it may be served in a vol-au-vent. Poached eggs are sometimes laid over it, and a garnish of curled bacon is placed round the edge. Another excellent variety of the dish is also made by covering the fowl thickly with very fine bread-crumbs, moisten- ing them with clarified butter, and giving them colour with a salamander, or in a quick oven.* , COLD FOWLS, EN FRITURE. Cut into joints, and take the skin from some cold fowls, lay them into a deep dish, strew over them a little fine salt and cayenne, add the juice of a lemon, and let them remain for an hour, moving them occasionally, that they may all absorb a portion of the acid ; then dip them one by one into some French batter (see page 129), and fry them a pale brown over a gentle fire. Serve them garnished with very green crisped parsley. A few drops of eschalot vinegar maybe mixed with the lemon-juice which is poured to the fowls, or slices of raw onion or eschalot, and small branches of sweet herbs may be laid amongst them, and cleared off’ before they are dipped into the batter. Gravy made of the trimmings, thickened, and well flavoured, may be sent to table with them in a tureen, and dressed bacon (see page 248,) in a dish apart. SCALLOPS OF FOWL, AU BECHAMEL. (ENTREE.) Raise the flesh from a couple of fowls, as directed for cutlets in the foregoing receipt, and take it as entire as possible from either side of the breast; strip off the skin, lay the fillets flat, and slice them into small thin scallops; dip them one by one into clarified butter, and arrange them evenly in a delicately clean and not large frying-pan; sprinkle a seasoning of fine salt over, and * For minced fowl and oysters, follow the receipt for veal, page 219.