387 BOILED PUDDINGS. CHAP. XVII.] ORANGE SNOW-GALLS. Take out the unhusked grains, and wash well half a pound of rice; put it into plenty of water, and boil it rather quickly for ten minutes ; drain and let it cool. Pare four large, or five small oranges, and clear from them entirely the thick white inner skin ; spread the rice, in as many equal portions as there are oranges, upon some pudding or dumpling cloths; tie the fruit separately in these, and boil the snow-balls for an hour and a half; turn them carefully on to a dish, and strew plenty of sifted sugar over them. Rice, 8 ozs.; China oranges, 5 : 1\ hour. APPLE SNOW-BALLS. Pare and core some large pudding-apples, without dividing them, prepare the rice as in the foregoing receipt, enclose them in it, and boil them for one hour: ten minutes less will be suffi- cient should the fruit be but of moderate size. An agreeable addition to them is a slice of fresh butter, mixed with as much sugar as can be smoothly blended with it, and a flavouring of powdered cinnamon, or of nutmeg: this must be sent to table apart from them, not in the dish. LIGHT CURRANT DUMPLINGS. For each dumpling take three tablespoonsful of flour, two of finely-minced suet, and three of currants, R slight pinch of salt, and as much milk or water as will make a thick batter of the ingredients. Tie the dumplings in well-floured cloths, and boil them for a full hour: they may be served with very sweet wine sauce. LEMON DUMPLINGS. Mix, with ten ounces of fine bread-crumbs, half a pound of beef-suet, chopped extremely small, one large tablespoonful of flour, the grated rinds of two small lemons, or of a very large one, four ounces of pounded sugar, three large, or four small eggs beaten and strained, and last of all the juice of the lemons, also strained. Divide these into four equal portions, tie them in well-floured cloths, and boil them an hour. The dumplings will be extremely light and delicate; if wished very sweet more sugar must be added to them. SUFFOLK, OR HARD DUMPLINGS. Mix a little salt with some flour, and make it into a smooth and rather lithe paste, with cold water or skimmed milk; form