90 [chap. iy. MODERN COOKERY. or other liquid which is to he mixed with it should be poured boiling, and in small quantities, the saucepan being often well shaken round, and the sauce made to boil up after each portion is added. If this precaution be observed, the butter will never float upon the surface, but the whole will be well and smoothly blended: it will otherwise be difficult to clear the sauce from it perfectly. For invalids, or persons who object to butter in their soups or sauces/ flour only, mixed to a smooth batter and stirred into the boiling liquid, may be substituted for other thickening : arrow- root also, used in the same way, will answer even better than flour. FRENCH THICKENING; OR, BROWN ROUX. For ordinary purposes this may be made as it is wanted for use ; but when it is required for various dishes at the same time, or for cookery upon a large scale, it can be prepared at once in sufficient quantity to last for several days, and it will remain good for some time. Dissolve with a very gentle degree of heat,, half a pound of good butter, then draw it from the fire, skim it well, give time for it to settle, pour it gently from the sediment into a very clean frying-pan, and place it over a slow but clear fire. Put into a dredging box about seven ounces of fine dry flour; add it gradually to the butter, shake the pan often as it is thrown in, and keep the thickening constantly stirred until it has acquired a clear light brown colour. It should be very slowly and equally done, or its flavour will be unpleasant. Pour it into a jar, and stir a spoonful or two as it is needed into boiling soup or gravy. When the butter is not clarified it will absorb an additional ounce of flour, the whole of which ought to be fine and dry. This thickening may be made in a well-tinned stewpan even better than m a frying-pan, and if simmered over a coal fire it should be placed high above it, and well guarded from smoke. WHITE ROUX, OR FRENCH THICKENING. Proceed exactly as for the preceding receipt, but dredge in the flour as soon as the butter is in full simmer, and be careful not to allow the thickening to take the slightest colour : this is used for white gravies or sauces. s SAUCE TOURNEE, OR, PALE THICKENED GRAVY. Sauce tournee is nothing more than rich pale gravy made with veal or poultry (see consommee, page 85) and thickened with