CARVING. xli A FILLET OF VEAL. There is no difference between the mode of carving this and a round of beef; but the brown outside slice of the veal is much liked by many eaters, and a portion of it should be served to them when it is known to be so. The forcemeat must be reached by cutting deeply into the flap, and a slice of it served always with the veal. A LOIN OF VEAL. This may be carved at choice quite across through the thick part of the flesh, or in slices taken in the direction of the bones. A slice of the kidney, and of the fat which surrounds it, should accompany the veal. No. 11. A BREAST OF VEAL. The brisket or gristles * of this joint must first be entirely separated from the rib-bones by pressing the knife quite through it in the line between a and b; this part may then be divided as shown by the letters ccc ddd, and the long bones or ribs may easily be separated in the direction e f. The taste of those who are served should be consulted as to the part of the joint which is preferred. The sweetbread is commonly sent to table with a roast breast of veal, and laid upon it: a portion of it should be served with every plate of the breast. No. 12. A TONGUE. This is sliced, not very thin, through the thickest and best part, shown by the letters a b. The fat of the root, when it is liked, must be carved by turning the tongue, and cutting in the direction c d. No. 13. a calf’s head. An entire calf’s head, served in its natural form, recalls too * The tendons are literally the small white gristles themselves, which are found under the flesh in this part of the joint. When freed from the bone attached to them, they may be dressed in a variety of ways, and are extremely good; but they require long stewing, four hours or more, to render them perfectly tender, even when each tendon is divided into three or four slices. We regret having been compelled to omit our receipts for them, as well as for many other small light dishes of the kind. The upper flesh must be laid back from the tendons before they are taken from the breast, not left adhering to them. They are very good simply stewed in white gravy, and served with green peas, d la Frangaise, in the centre; the breast entirely boned, forced, and rolled, making a handsome dish, either roasted or stewed.