MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XYIII. 390 Minute directions for the preparation and management of each particular variety of pudding will be found in the receipt for it. THE printer’s PUDDING. Grate very lightly six ounces of the crumb of a stale loaf, and put it into a deep dish. Dissolve in a quart of cold new milk four ounces of good Lisbon sugar; add it to five large, well- whisked eggs; strain, and mix them with the bread-crumbs; .stir in two ounces of a fresh finely-grated cocoa-nut; add a flavouring of nutmeg or of lemon-rind, and the slightest pinch of salt; let the pudding stand for a couple of hours to soak the bread; and bake it in a gentle oven for three quarters of an hour: it is excellent if carefully made, and not too quickly baked. When the cocoa-nut is not at hand, an ounce of but- ter just dissolved, should be poured over the dish before the crumbs are put into it; and the rind of an entire lemon may be used to give it flavour; but the cocoa-nut imparts a peculiar richness when it is good and fresh. Bread-crumbs, 6 ozs.; new milk, 1 quart; sugar, 4 ozs ; eggs, 5 ; cocoa-nut, 2 ozs.; (or rind, 1 large lemon, and 1 oz. butter) slightest pinch of salt: to stand 2 hours. Baked in gentle oven full f hour. Obs.—When a very sweet pudding is liked, the proportion of sugar may be increased. ALMOND PUDDING. On two ounces of fine white bread-crumbs pour a pint of boiling cream, and let them remain until nearly cold, then mix them very gradually with half a pound of sweet and six bitter almonds pounded to the smoothest paste, with a little orange- flower water, or, when this is not at hand, with a few drops of spring water, just to prevent their oiling; stir to them by de- grees the well-beaten yolks of seven and the whites of three eggs, six ounces of sifted sugar, and four of clarified butter; turn the mixture into a very clean stewpan, and stir it without ceasing over a slow fire until it becomes thick, but on no account allow it to boil. When it is tolerably cool add a glass of brandy, or half a one of noyeau, pour the pudding into a dish lined with very thin puff paste, and bake it half an hour in a moderate oven. Bread-crumbs, 2 ozs.; cream, 1 pint; pounded almonds, \ lb.; , bitter almonds, 6; yolks of 7, whites of 3 eggs; sugar, 6 ozs,;