548 [CHAP. XXYI. MODERN COOKERY. strain, and put it into a new, or a perfectly clean and dry earthen pitcher, and let it stand in a cellar or some cool place for twenty-four hours, or longer, should it not then appear per- fectly curdled. Pour it gently into a fine hair-sieve, and let the clear juice drain through without pressure; pass it through a jelly-bag, or a closely-woven cloth, weigh it, and add as much good, sugar, broken small, as there is juice, and when this is dissolved turn the syrup into a preserving pan or stewpan, and boil it gently for four or five minutes, being careful to clear off all the scum. In twelve hours afterwards the syrup may be put into small dry bottles, and corked and stored in a cool, but dry place. It is a most agreeable preparation, retaining per- fectly the flavour of the fresh fruit; and mixed with water, it affords, like strawberry or raspberry vinegar, a delicious sum- mer beverage, and one which is peculiarly adapted to invalids. It makes also a fine isinglass jelly, and an incomparable sweet- pudding sauce. A portion of raspberry or cherry-juice may be mixed with that of the currants at pleasure. ORANGE-FLOWER RATAFIA. (A delicious liqueur.) Boil to a thick syrup a pound and a quarter of highly refined sugar, and three quarters of a pint of water; throw into it three ounces of the petals only, plucked one by one from the stems, of some freshly gathered orange-blossoms, give them two minutes boil, take them from the fire, and when the whole is half cold stir in two bottles of white French brandy; turn the mixture into a new and well-scalded stone pitcher, or jar, make it air-tight as soon as the liqueur is quite cold, and in from three to four weeks it will be ready to bottle after the flowers have been strained from it: they give it a delicious flavour. Water, f pint; sugar, II lb.: 15 to 20 minutes, or more. Petals of the orange-blossom, 3 ozs.; 2 minutes. White French brandy, 2 quarts: infuse 3 to 4 weeks. OXFORD PUNCH. Extract the essence from the rinds of three lemons by rub- bing them with sugar in lumps ; put these into a large jug with the peel of two Seville oranges and of two lemons cut extremely thin, the juice of four Seville oranges and of ten lemons, and six glasses of calf’s feet jelly in a*liquid state. Stir these well together, pour to them two quarts of boiling water, cover the jug closely, and set it near the fire for a quarter of an hour, then strain the mixture through a sieve into a punch bowl or