47 G [[chap. XXI. MODERN COOKERY. boil the preserve again quickly for twenty-five minutes. One pound of white currant-juice added in the first instance to four of the strawberries, will greatly improve this preserve, which will be quite firm, and sufficiently, but not over sweet. Strawberries, 6 lbs.: 35 minutes. Sugar, 3 lbs.: 25 minutes. Or : strawberries, 4 lbs.; currant-juice, 1 lb.: 30 to 35 minutes. Sugar, 2\. lbs.: 25 minutes. Obs.—We do not think it needful to give directions with each separate receipt for skimming the preserve with care, and keeping it constantly stirred, but neither should in any case be neglected. STRAWBERRY JELLY. This, when made with fine, full-flavoured, scarlet straw- berries, is a very delicious preserve, and is by many persons preferred to guava jelly, which it greatly resembles. Stalk the fruit, bruise it very slightly, and stir it for a few minutes over a gentle fire ; strain it without pressure, weigh, and boil it quickly for twenty minutes in a German enamelled stewpan, or preserving-pan, if possible, that the colour may not be injured; take it from the fire, and stir into it twelve ounces of sugar to the pound of juice ; when this is dissolved, boil it again quickly for twenty minutes, clear it perfectly from scum, and pour it into jars or glasses. The preserve will be firmer, and require less boiling, if one fourth of red or white currant- juice be mixed with that of the strawberries, but the flavour will not then be quite so perfect. A superior jelly to this is made by taking an equal weight of juice and sugar, and by boiling the latter to candy height, before the juice (which should previously be boiled five minutes) is added to it; and when they have been stirred together off the fire until this is entirely dissolved, boiling the whole quickly from ten to twenty minutes; the time required varying very much from the diffe- rence which is found in the quality of the fruit. Fruit, simmered 4 to 5 minutes. Juice of strawberries, 4 lbs.: 20 minutes. Sugar, 3 lbs.: 20 minutes. Or: juice of strawberries, 4 lbs.: 5 minutes. Sugar, boiled to candy height, 4 lbs.: 10 to 20 minutes. ANOTHER VERY FINE STRAWBERRY JELLY. Express the juice from the fruit through a cloth, strain it clear, weigh, and stir to it an equal proportion of the finest sugar, dried and reduced to powder; when this is dissolved, piace the preserving-pan over a very clear fire, and stir the