MODERN COOKERY. [[chap. XXIII. 520 smooth paste, flatten it with the hand upon the dresser, spread the leaven over it, and blend them thoroughly with light knead- ing, as directed fdr brioche paste, page 339. The whole should be of the same colour throughout. Next, put it into a small, well-buttered copper stewpan, or plain cake-mould, and let it remain in a moderately warm place until it has risen, like the leaven, to double its original size; then with a paste-brush or feather wash the top with beaten egg, and without disturbing it, set it into a tolerably quick oven, and bake it nearly or quite an hour; but do not allow it to be too deeply coloured. Turn it from the mould, cut it once or twice asunder, and pour over the slices plenty of good butter, just dissolved in a small saucepan; put the cake together again, and serve it immediately. It may be converted into an excel- lent entremets by spreading currant, or other fine jelly, or pre- serve, quickly upon it wdien it is cut, and sifting sugar thickly on the top after it is restored to its proper form: it is then called a Dresden cake. We think that when left until cold and toasted, the soliinemne is even better than wdien served hot. It will be many hours rising; sometimes as many as six or eight. If wanted for breakfast it should be made over night. Flour f lb.; yeast, \ oz.; little cream ; salt, £ oz.; sugar, 1 oz.; yolks of eggs, 4; butter, 4 ozs.: to rise from 6 to 8 hours. Baked 1 hour. BANBURY CAKES. First, mix well together a pound of currants, cleaned -with great nicety and dried, a quarter-pound of beef-suet,. finely minced, three ounces each of candied orange and lemon-rind, shred small, a few grains of salt, a full quarter-ounce of pounded cinnamon and nutmeg mixed, and four ounces of macaroons or ratafias.rolled to powder. Next, make a light paste with four- teen ounces of butter to the pound of flour; give it an extra turn or two to prevent its rising too much in the oven; roll out one half in a very thin square, and spread the mixed fruit and spice equally upon it; moisten the edges, lay on the re- maining half of the paste, rolled equally thin, press the edges securely together, mark the whole with the back of a knife in regular divisions of two inches wide and three in length, bake the pastry in a well-heated oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes, and divide it into cakes while it is still warm. They may be served as a second course dish either hot or cold, and may be glazed at pleasure. Currants, 1 lb.; beef-suet, 4 ozs.; candied orange and lemon-