2C1 CHAP. XII.] POULTRY. 1 TO ROAST A GREEN GOOSE. Season the inside with a little pepper and salt, and roact the goose at a brisk fire from forty to fifty minutes. Serve it with good brown gravy only, and sorrel sauce. TO ROAST A FOWL. Strip off the feathers, and carefully pick every stump or plug from the skin, as nothing can be more uninviting than the appearance of any kind of poultry where this has been neglected, nor more indica- tive of slovenliness on the part of the.cook. Take off the head and neck close to the Fowl for Roasting, body, but leave sufficient of the skin to tie over the part that is cut. In drawing the bird, do not open it more than is needful, and use great precaution to avoid breaking the gall-bladder. Hold the legs in boiling water for two or three minutes that the skin may be peeled from them easily; cut off the claws, and then, with a bit of lighted writing-paper, singe off the hairs without blackening the fowl. Wash, and wipe it afterwards very dry, and let the liver and gizzard be made delicately clean, and fastened into the pinions. Truss, and spit it firmly; flour it well when first laid to the fire, baste it frequently with butter, and when it is done, draw out the skewers, dish it, pour a little good gravy over, and send it to table with bread, mushroom, egg, chestnut, or olive sauce. A common mode of serv- ing roast fowls in France is aux cressons, that is, laid upon young water-cresses, which have previously been freed from the outer leaves, thoroughly washed, shaken dry in a clean cloth, and sprinkled with a little fine salt, and a small quantity of vinegar : these should cover the dish, and after the fowls are placed on them, gravy should be poured over as usual. The body of a fowl may be filled with very small mushrooms prepared as for partridges (see partridges with mushrooms), then sewn up, roasted, and served with mushroom-sauce: this is an excellent mode of dressing it. A slice of fresh butter mixed with some salt and cayenne or pepper; a little rasped bacon ; or a bit or two of the lean of beef or veal minced, or cut into dice, may be put inside the bird when either is considered an improvement. An ounce or two of fresh butter smoothly mixed with a teaspoonful of really good mushroom-powder, a little