[CHAP. XX. MODERN COOKERY. 432 wanted for table, serve it plain for dessert, or ornament it with spikes of blanched almonds, and pour a custard round it for a second course dish. Sugar, 1 lb.; water, \ pint: 15 minutes. Nonsuches or other apples, 2 lbs.; juice, 1 large or 2 small lemons: 2 hours or more. GATEAU OF MIXED FRUITS. (GOOD.) Extract the juice from some fresh red currants by simmering them very gently for a few minutes over a slow fire; strain it through a folded muslin, and to one pound of it add a pound and a half of nonsuches or of freshly gathered codlings, pared, and rather deeply cored, that the fibrous part of the apple may be avoided. Boil these quite slowly until the mixture is per- fectly smooth, then, to evaporate part of the moisture, let the boiling be quickened. In from twenty-five to thirty minutes draw the pan from the fire, and throw in gradually a pound and a quarter of sugar in fine powder; mix it well with the fruit, and when it is dissolved continue the boiling rapidly for twenty minutes longer, keeping the mixture constantly stirred; put it into a mould, and store it, when cold, for winter use, or serve it for dessert, or for the second course: in the latter case decorate it with spikes of almonds blanched, and heap solid whipped cream round it, or pour a custard into the dish. For dessert it may be garnished with dice of the palest apple-jelly. Juice of red currants, 1 lb.; nonsuches, or codlings (pared and cored), 1^ lb.: 25 to 30 minutes. Sugar, 1| lb.: 20 minutes. Obs.—A portion of raspberries, if still in season, may be mixed with the currants for this gateau, should their flavour be liked. For other and excellent varieties of gateaux of fruit, see Newton solid, and Damson solid, Chapter XXI. Ripe peaches and nonsuches will likewise do well for it. Codlings answer perfectly for the preceding receipt, and the prepiration is of fine colour and very pleasant flavour: it ought to cut in clear firm slices. JELLIES. calf’s feet jelly, (entremets.) We hear inexperienced housekeepers frequently complain of the difficulty of rendering this jelly perfectly transparent ; but by mixing with the other ingredients, while quite cold, the whites, and the crushed shells of a sufficient number of eggs, and allowing the head of scum which gathers on the jelly to remain undisturbed after it once forms, they will scarcely