MODERN COOKERY. €6 [CHAP. II. with a very small bit of saltpetre to render them firm. Skim the water, and simmer them from seven to ten minutes, accord- ing to their size. Send them very hot to table, with a tureen of melted butter, and one of anchovy sauce. 7 to 10 minutes. Ob.?.—In Scotland, haddocks are skinned before they are boiled, and the heads taken off, but we see no advantage in this mode of dressing them. Whitings, fresh herrings, and codlings, may all be dressed by this receipt, the time only being varied according to the size of the fish. BAKED HADDOCKS. After they have been cleaned, dry them thoroughly, then bake them, as directed in the common receipt for pike, or fill them with oyster-forcemeat, or with No. L of Chapter IV., if more convenient, and proceed as for baked mackerel. 20 to 30 minutes; longer if very large. TO FRY HADDOCKS. Follow the directions given for fillets of whitings, or should a more simple method be preferred, clean and dry the fish well, cut off the heads and tails, take out the backbones, cut each fish in three, egg and crumb them, fry them in boiling lard a fine golden brown, and serve them, well drained and dried, with the same sauces as boiled haddocks. TO DRESS FINNAN HADDOCKS. These are slightly salted, and dried. They are excellent eating, if gently heated through upon the gridiron without being hardened, and are served usually as a relish at the break- fast or supper table; a feather dipped in oil may be passed over them before they are laid to the fire. FRESH HERRINGS. (Farleigh Receipt.') In season from May to October. Scale and clean the fish with the utmost nicety, split them quite open, and wash the insides with particular care ; dry them well in a cloth, take off the heads and tails, and remove the backbones; rub the insides with pepper, salt, and a little pounded mace ; stick small bits of butter on them and skewer two of the fish together as flat as possible, with the skin of both outside; flour, and broil or fry them of a fine brown, and serve them