322 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XV. salt, and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and pour them on to a crust, cut about an inch and a quarter thick, from the under part of a moderate-sized loaf, and fried in good butter a light brown, after having been first slightly hollowed in the inside. New milk, or thin cream, may be used with very good effect instead of the gravy; but a few strips of lemon-rind, and a small por- tion of nutmeg and mushroom-catsup should then be added to the sauce. The bread may be buttered and grilled over a gentle fire instead of being fried, and is better so. Small mushrooms, 4 to 5 half pints; butter, 3 to 4 ozs.; mace, mixed with a little cayenne, -} teaspoonful: stewed softly 10 to 15 minutes. Flour, 1 small dessertspoonful: 3 to 5 minutes. Gravy or broth, \ pint: 2 minutes. Little salt and lemon-juice. TRUFFLES. The truffle is so scantily produced in England, and it is so expensive, even in the countries where it is both of finer and more abundant growth, that it is little served here as a vegetable, except at the tables of the wealthier classes. As we cannot, from our own experience, give receipts for dressing it, in the various modes which follow we cite the best French authority on the subject.* TRUFFLES WITH CHAMPAGNE, A LA SERVIETTE. Select the finest truffles for this dish, be particular in smelling them, and reject any that have a musty smell. Wash and brush them well with cold water only, change it several times, and when they are perfectly clean line a stewpan with slices of bacon ; put in the truffles with a bunch of parsley, green onions, and thyme, two or three bay-leaves, half a dozen cloves, and a little sweet basil; pour in sufficient rich veal gravy to cover them, with the addition of from half a pint to half a bottle of champagne; boil them very softly for an hour, then draw them aside and let them cool in the gravy. Heat them afresh in it when they are wanted for table; lift them out and drain them in a very clean cloth, and dish them neatly in a fine and beau- tifully white napkin, which shall contrast as strongly as possible with the dark hue of the truffles. * We have had very good bottded truffles from Mr. Cobbett, 18, Pall Mall, which answer extremely well for pies and forcemeats, when the season of the fresh root is passed : they are steamed, we apprehend, like bottled fruit, and must have the air excluded from them as carefully.