435 CHAP. XX.] SWEET DISHES, OR ENTREMETS. with a quart of calf’s feet stock (see page 425), nine ounces of sugar broken small, or roughly pounded, the juice of two fine lemons, and the thin rinds of one and a half, with the whites and shells of eight eggs. Let it boil gently for ten minutes, then strain it through a flannel-bag, and when cool put it into moulds It will be very clear, and firm, and of pleasant flavour. Apples of good quality should be used for it, and the quantity of sugar must be regulated by the time of year, as the fruit will have lost much of its acidity during the latter part of the season. This receipt, which is the result of our own experi- ment, and which we have found very successful, was first tried just after Christmas, with pearmains and Kipstone pippins. A little syrup of preserved ginger, or a small glass of fine white brandy, would perhaps, to some tastes, improve the jelly; but we give it simply as we have had it proved ourselves. Prepared apple juice, 1 quart; fresh apples, 1 lb.: £ to f hour. Strained juice, 1| pint; calf’s feet stock, 1 quart; sugar, 9 ozs.; juice of lemons, 2; rind of ; whites and shells of eggs, 8 : 10 minutes. Obs.—We would recommend the substitution of quinces for apples in this receipt as likely to afford a very agreeable variety of the jelly: or equal portions of the two fruits might answer well. Unless the stock be very stiff, add isinglass to this, as to the calf’s feet jelly, when it is to be moulded. ORANGE CALES EEET JELLY. To a pint and a half of firm calf’s feet stock, put a pint of strained China orange-juice, mixed with that of one or two lemons; add to these six ounces of sugar, broken small, the very thin rinds of three oranges and of one lemon, and the whites of six eggs with half the shells crushed small. Stir these gently over a clear fire until the head of scum begins to form, but not at all afterwards. Simmer the jelly for ten mi- nutes from the first full boil; take it from the fire, let it stand a little, then pour it through a jelly-bag until perfectly clear. This is an original, and entirely new receipt, which we can re- commend to the reader, the jelly being very pale, beautifully transparent, and delicate in flavour: it would, we think, be peculiarly acceptable to such invalids as are forbidden to take wine in any form. The proportions both of sugar and of lemon-juice must be somewhat varied according to the season in which the oranges are used.