561 CHAP. XXVIII.] BREAD. afford at all times of baking in a small way. They are, however, we should say, generally far from economical as regards the proportion of fuel required to heat them; and the same objec- tion may be made to the American oven also; the strong smell, too, emitted from the iron ones, and diffused often entirely through a house, is peculiarly unpleasant. A brick oven should be well heated with faggot wood, or with a faggot, and two or three solid logs; and after it is cleared, the door should be closely shut for quite half an hour before the baking com- mences : the heat will then be well sustained for a succession of bread, pies, cakes, and small pastry. The servant who habitu- ally attends at an oven will soon become acquainted with the precise quantity of fuel which it requires, and all other peculiarities which may be connected with it. In general more time must be allowed to bake any thing in an iron, than in a brick oven. TO MAKE BREAD. Every cook, and we might almost say, every female servant, ought to be perfectly acquainted with the mode of making good household bread ; and skill in preparing other articles of food is poor compensation for ignorance upon this one essential point. A very slight degree of attention, moreover, will enable any person to succeed in it, and there is, consequently, small excuse for those who neglect to render themselves properly acquainted with the process. The best flour will generally be found the cheapest in the end : it should be purchased if possible from a miller who can be depended on for supplying it good and unadulterated. Let it be stored always in a dry place, as damp is very injurious to it. If kept habitually in a chest, this should be entirely emptied at intervals, cleaned with great nicety, and not filled again until it is perfectly dry. The kneading trough, tub, or pan, with every thing else indeed used for the bread, or for the oven, should at all times be kept scrupulously clean. The yeast of mild home-brewed beer is the best that can be procured, and requires no purifying; but it should be strained through a hair-sieve after it is mixed with a portion of warm milk, or water, before it is added to the flour. Yery rapid fermentation, which is produced by using more than the necessary quantity of yeast, is by no means advan- tageous to the bread, which not only becomes dry and stale from it, but is of less sweet and pleasant flavour than that which is more slowly fermented. Li winter it should always be o o