CARVING. xlvii No. 23. A WILD DUCK. The breasts of wild-fowl are the only parts of them held in much estimation, and these are carved in slices from the legs to the neck. The legs and pinions may, if required, be taken off exactly like those of a pheasant. No. 24. A TURKEY. The carving of a turkey commences by taking slices off* the breast, from the letters b b quite through the forcemeat, which lies under the letter a, to c c: the greater part of the flesh of the wings is thus taken off likewise. When the bird is boned and filled with sausage or other forcemeat, the breast is carved entirely across in the direction d e, nearly, or quite down to the back, which it is better not altogether to divide at first, as the appearance of the turkey is not then so good. When it has been prepared in the ordinary manner, after the breast has been disposed of, the pinions and the legs may be taken off, the first in the line from/to g, and the latter by passing the knife under it at h, and bringing it down to the joint at i i where it must be taken off in the line shown. The whole of the joints being in form exactly like those of a fowl may be separated in the same manner. The gizzard is more commonly eaten broiled after having been scored, and very highly seasoned with cayenne and with a sufficiency of salt, than in any other way. A slice or portion of the liver should be served with the white flesh of the turkey as far as possible. No. 25. A HARE. A hare should be placed with its head to the left of the carver, therefore the engraving No. 25 shows it turned in the wrong direction. It is so very great an improvement to take out the back-bone before a hare is roasted, that we would recommend it to be done wherever it can be so without difficulty : it may then be carved in the line a b quite through, or only partially so at choice. When the bone remains in, slices may be taken down the whole length of the back from c c to d d ; the legs, which, next to the back, are considered the best eating, may then be taken off in the direction e /, and the flesh divided from or served upon them, after the small bones have been parted from the thighs. The shoulders, which are not generally much esteemed, though sometimes liked by sportsmen, may next be taken off by passing the knife at the letters g h between the