[CHAP. IX. 208 MODERN COOKERY. some small buttons, stewed very white and tender, to the portion reserved for saucing the joint. 2 to hours. KNUCKLE OF VEAL EN RAGOUT. Cut in small thick slices the flesh of a knuckle of veal, season it with a little fine salt and white pepper, flour it lightly, and fry it in butter to a pale brown, lay it into a very clean stewpan or saucepan, and just cover it with boiling water; skim it clean, and add to it a faggot of thyme and parsley, the white part of a head of celery, a small quantity of cayenne, and a blade or two of mace. Stew it very softly from an hour and three quarters, to two hours and a half. Thicken and enrich the gravy if needful with rice-flour and mushroom catsup or Harvey’s sauce, or with a large teaspoonful of flour, mixed with a slice of butter, a little good store-sauce and, a glass of sherry or Madeira. Fried force- meat balls of Ho. 1, page 143, may be added at pleasure. With an additional quantity of water, or of broth (made with the bones of the joint), a pint and a half of young green peas stewed with the veal for an hour will give an agreeable variety of this dish. BOILED KNUCKLE OF VEAL. After the joint has been trimmed and well washed, put it into a vessel well adapted to it in size, for if it be very large, so much water will be required that the veal will be deprived of its flavour; it should be well covered with it, and very gently boiled until it is perfectly tender in every part, but not so much done as to separate from the bone. Clear off the scum with scrupulous care when the simmering first commences, and throw in a small portion of salt; as this, if sparingly used, will not redden the meat, and 'will otherwise much improve it. Parsley and butter is Usually both poured over, and sent to table with a knuckle of veal, and boiled bacon also should accompany it. From the sinewy nature of this joint, it requires more than the usual time of cooking, a quarter of an hour to the pound not being sufficient for it. Yeal, 6 to 7 lbs.: 2 hours or more. KNUCKLE OF VEAL WITH RICE OR GREEN PEAS. Pour over a small knuckle of veal rather more than sufficient ■water to cover it; bring it slowly to a boil; take off all the scum with great care, throw in a teaspoonful of salt, and when