MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XVIII. 398 rate oven, and let it remain in a full hour. It will then, if properly baked, turn out from the mould or pan well browned, quite firm, and having the appearance of a cake; but a fierce heat wfill cause it to break, and present an altogether un- sightly appearance* In a very slack oven a longer time must be allowed for it. New milk, or milk and cream, 1 quart; Carolina rice, 7 ozs.: f hour. Fresh butter, 3 ozs.; sugar, in lumps, 5 ozs.; rind, I large lemon: f to If hour. Eggs, 6 : baked in a moderate oven, 1 hour. Obs.—An admirable variety of this gateau is made with cocoa-nut flavoured milk, or cream (see Chapter XX.), or with either of these poured boiling on six ounces of Jordan almonds, finely pounded, and mixed with a dozen of bitter ones, then expressed from them with strong pressure; it may likewise be flavoured with vanilla, or with candied orange- blossoms, and covered at the instant it is dished, with straw- berry, apple, or any other clear jelly. A COMMON RICE PUDDING. Throw six ounces of rice into plenty of cold water, and boil it gently from eight to ten minutes ; drain it well in a sieve or strainer, and put it into a clean saucepan with a quart of milk; let it stew until tender, sweeten it with three ounces of sugar, stir to it, gradually, three large, or four small eggs, beaten and strained; add grated nutmeg, lemon-rind, or cinnamon, to give it flavour, and bake it one hour in a gentle oven. Bice, 6 ozs.; in water, 8 to 10 minutes. Milk, 1 quart: | to 1 hour. Sugar, 3 ozs.; eggs, 3 large, or 4 small; flavour- ing of nutmeg, lemon-rind, or cinnamon : bake 1 hour, gentle oven. RICHER RICE PUDDING. Pick and wash very clean four ounces of whole rice, pour on it a pint and a half of new milk, and stew it slowly till quite tender; before it is taken from the fire, stir in two ounces of good butter, and three of sugar ; and when it has cooled a little, add four well-whisked eggs, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Bake the pudding in a gentle oven from thirty to forty minutes. As rice requires long boiling to render it soft in milk, it may be partially stewed in water, the quantity of milk diminished to a pint, and a little thick sweet cream mixed with it, before the other ingredients are added.