CHAP. X.] LAMB. 233 for either of these. A dessertspoonful of minced eschalots may- be strewed over the kidneys with the herbs; or two dozens of very small ones, previously stewed till tender in fresh butter over a gentle fire, may be added after they are dished. This is a very excellent and approved receipt. Fried 6 minutes. BROILED MUTTON KIDNEYS. Split them open lengthwise without dividing them; strip otf the skin and fat; run a fine skewer through the points and across the back of the kidneys to keep them flat while broiling; season them with pepper or cayenne; lay them over a clear brisk fire, with the cut sides towards it; turn them in from four to five minutes; and in as many more dish, and serve them quickly, with or without a cold Maitre d’Hotel sauce under them. French cooks season them with pepper and fine salt, and brush a very small quantity of oil, or clarified butter over them before they are broiled : we think this an improvement. 8 to 10 minutes. OXFORD RECEIPT FOR MUTTON KIDNEYS. (BREAKFAST DISH, OR ENTREE.) Fry gently, in a little good butter, a dozen croutons (slices of bread, of uniform shape and size, trimmed free from crust), cut half an inch thick, about two inches and a half wide, and from three to four in length: lift them out and keep them hot. Split quite asunder six fine fresh kidneys, after having freed them from the skin and fat; season them with fine salt and cayenne; arrange them evenly in a clean frying-pan, and pour some clarified butter over them. Fry them over a somewhat brisk fire; dish each half upon a crouton; make a sauce in the pan as for veal cutlets, but use gravy for it instead of water, should it be at hand; add a little wine or catsup; pour it round the croutons, and serve the kidneys instantly. 10 minutes. TO ROAST A FORE QUARTER OF LAMB. This should be laid to a clear brisk fire, and carefully and plentifully basted from the time of its becoming warm until it is ready for table ; but though it requires quick roasting, it must never be placed sufficiently near the fire to endanger the fat, which is very liable to catch or burn. When the joint is served, the shoulder should be separated from the ribs with a sharp knife, and a small slice of fresh butter, a little cayerme, and a squeeze of