[CHAP. II. 48 MODERN COOKERY, without being emptied, and smelts are drawn at the gills. When the scales are left on, the outside of the fish should he well washed and wiped with a coarse cloth, drawn gently from the head to the tail. Eels, to he wholesome, should he skinned, but they are sometimes dressed without; boiling water should then he poured upon them, and they should he left in it from five to ten minutes, before they are cut up. The dark skin of the sole must be stripped off* when it is fried, hut it must he left on, like that of a turbot, when the fish is boiled, and it should he dished with the white side upwards. Whitings are skinned, and dipped usually into egg and bread-crumbs, when they are to be fried; but for boiling or broiling, the skin must be left on. TO KEEP FISH. We find that all the smaller kinds of fish keep best if emptied and cleaned as soon as they are brought in, then wiped gently as dry as they can be, and hung separately by the head on the hooks in the ceiling of a cool larder, or in the open air when the weather will allow. When there is danger of their being attacked by flies, a wire safe, placed in a strong draught of air, is better adapted to the purpose. Soles in winter will remain good a couple of days when thus prepared; and even whitings and mackerel may be kept so without losing any of their excel- lence. Salt may be rubbed slightly over cod fish, and well along the back-bone, but it injures the flavour of salmon, the inside of which may be rubbed with vinegar, and peppered in- stead. When excessive sultriness renders all of these modes unavailing, the fish must at once be partially cooked to preserve it, but this should he avoided if possible, as it is very rarely so good when this method is resorted to. TO SWEETEN TAINTED FISH. The application of the pyroligneous acid will effect this when the taint is but slight. A wineglassful, mixed with two of water, may be poured over the fish, and rubbed upon the parts more particularly requiring it; it must then be left for some minutes untouched, and afterwards washed in several waters, and soaked until the smell of the acid is no longer'perceptible. The chloride of soda,* from its powerful anti-putrescent pro- '•* * The reader will be sure to obtain the best preparation of the chloride of soda, by ordering Beaufuy’s, which, with the directions for its use, may be pro- cured at any druggist’s in sealed quart bottles, at three and sixpence each. It is better adapted to delicate purposes than the chloride of lime. We would also recommend the use of Beaufoy’s pyroligneous acid.