PISH. CHAP. II.] 65 cayenne; pour in by slow degrees three glasses of claret, and when the sauce boils, lay in a couple of fine mackerel, well cleaned, and wiped quite dry; stew them very softly from fifteen to twenty minutes, and turn them when half done ; lift them out, and dish them carefully; stir a teaspoonful of made- mustard to the sauce, give it a boil, and pour it over the fish. When more convenient, substitute port wine and a little lemon- juice, for the claret. Mackerel, 2; flour, 1 teaspoonful; butter, 2 ozs.; seasoning of salt, mace, and cayenne; claret, 3 glassesful; made-mustard, 1 teaspoonful: 15 to 20 minutes. FILLETS OF MACKEREL STEWED IN WINE. (Excellent.) Raise the flesh entire from the bones on either side of the mackerel, and divide it once, if the fish be small, but cut the whole into six parts of equal size should they be large. Mix with flour, and dissolve the butter as in the preceding receipt, and when it has simmered for a minute throw in the spice, a little salt, and the thinly pared rind of half a small fresh lemon; lay in the fillets of fish, shake them over a gentle fire from four to five minutes, and turn them once in the time ; then pour to them in small portions a'couple of large glassesful of port wine, a tablespoonful of Harvey’s sauce, should it be at hand, a teaspoonful of soy, and one of lemon-juice; stew the mackerel very softly until the thinner parts begin to break, lift them out with care, dish and serve them in their sauce as hot as possible. We can recommend the dish to our readers as a very excellent one. A garnish of fried sippets can be placed round the fish at will. A teaspoonful of made-mustard should be stirred to the sauce before it is poured over the fish. Mackerel, 2 ; butter, 2 ozs.; flour, 1 teaspoonful; rind of i lemon; salt, cayenne, pounded mace : 2 minutes. Fish, 4 to 5 minutes. Port wine, 2 large glassesful; Harvey’s sauce, 1 tablespoonful; soy and lemon-juice each, 1 teaspoonful: 4 to 6 minutes. Mustard, 1 teaspoonful. Obs.—Trout may be dressed by this receipt. TO BOIL HADDOCKS. In the best season in October, November, and December. Scrape the outsides very clean, open the fish, empty them, wash the insides thoroughly, take out the gills, curl the had- docks round, fasten the tails to the mouths, arrange them on a fish-plate, and lay them into warm water salted as for mackerel, F '