CIIAP. XVII.] 385 BOILED PUDDINGS. Brown bread, suet, and currants, each 8 ozs.; sugar, 3 ozs.; candied peel, 2 ozs.; salt, \ saltspoonful; ± of small nutmeg; eggs, 5; brandy, 1 wineglassful: 3^ hours. A GOOD BOILED RICE PUDDING. Swell gradually,* and boil until quite soft and thick, four ounces and a half of whole rice in a pint and a half of new milk: sweeten them with from three to four ounces of sugar, broken small, and stir to them while they are still quite hot, the grated rind of half a large lemon, four or five bitter almonds, pounded to a paste, and four large well-whisked eggs; let the mixture cool, and then pour it into a thickly buttered basin, or mould, which should be quite full; tie a buttered paper and a floured cloth over it, and boil the pudding exactly an hour; let it stand for two or three minutes before it is turned out, and serve it with sweet sauce, fruit syrup, or a compote of fresh fruit. An ounce and a half of candied orange-rind will improve it much, and a couple of ounces of butter may be added to enrich it, when the receipt without is considered too simple. It is excellent when made with milk highly flavoured with cocoa- nut (see Chapter XX). Whole rice, 41 ozs.; new milk (or cocoa-nut-flavoured milk), li pint; sugar, 3 to 4 ozs.; salt, a few grains ; bitter almonds, 4 to 6; rind of \ lemon; eggs, 4: boiled 1 hour. CHEAP RICE PUDDING. Wash six ounces of rice, mix it with three quarters o£a pound of raisins, tie them in a well-floured cloth, giving them plenty of room to swell; boil them exactly an hour and three quarters, and serve the pudding with very sweet sauce: this is a nice dish for the nursery. A pound of apples pared, cored, and quartered, will also make a very wholesome pudding, mixed with the rice, and boiled from an "hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. Bice, 6 ozs.; raisins, i lb.: 2 hours. Or, rice, 6 ozs.; apples, 1 lb.: II to 1| hour. RICE-AND-GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. Spread six ounces of rice equally over a moist and well- floured pudding-cloth, and place on it a pint of green goose- berries, measured after the heads and stalks have been taken off. Gather the cloth up carefully round the fruit, give room for the * That is to say, put the rice into the milk while cold, heat it slowly, and let it simmer only until it is done.