MODERN COOKERY. 4G0 [CHAP. XX. warm apricot jam as it will contain, and lav a small quantity on the top; pour the syrup from the pan round, but not on the fruit, and serve it immediately. Apples, 6 to 8 ; fresh butter, 4 ozs., just simmered till tender. Sugar, 6 to 8 ozs.; cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful: 5 minutes. Apri- cot jam as needed. Obs.—Particular care must be taken to keep the apples entire: they should rather steam in a gentle heat than boil. It is im- possible to specify the precise time which will render them suffi- ciently tender, as this must depend greatly on the time of year and the sort of fruit. If the stewpan were placed in a very slow oven, the more regular heat of it would perhaps be better in its effect than the stewing. Suedoise of Peaches. SUEDOISE OF PEACHES. Pare and divide four fine, ripe peaches, and let them just immer from five to eight minutes in a syrup made with the third of a pint of water and three ounces of very white sugar, boiled together for fifteen minutes; lift them out carefully into a deep dish, and pour about half the syrup over them, and into the remaining half throw a couple of pounds more of quite ripe peaches, and boil them to a perfectly smooth, dry pulp, or marmalade, with as much additional sugar, in fine powder, as the nature of the fruit may require. Lift the other peaches from the syrup, and reduce it, by very quick boiling, more than half. Spread a deep layer of the marmalade in a dish, arrange the peaches symmetrically round it, and fill all the spaces between them with the marmalade ; place the half of a blanched peach-kernel in each, pour the reduced syrup equally over the surface, and border the dish with Italian macaroons, or, in lieu of these, with candied citron, sliced very thin, and cut into leaves with a small paste-cutter. A little lemon-juice brings out the flavour of all preparations of peaches, and may be added with good effect to this. When the fruit is scarce, the marma- lade (which ought to be very white) may be made in part, or entirely, with nonsuches. The better to preserve their form, the peaches are sometimes merely wiped, and then boiled tole- rably tender in the syrup before they are pared or split. Half