CHAP. IV.] SAUCES. 99 they say it tastes less of flour if served when it is just at the point of simmering. Cold water, b pint; salt, i spoonful; flour, 1 dessertspoonful: 3 to 4 minutes. Butter; 4 to 6 ozs. MELTED BUTTER. (A good common Receipt.') Put into a basin a large teaspoonful of flour, and a little salt, then mix with them very gradually and very smoothly a quar- ter-pint of cold water ; turn these into z '4all clean saucepan, and shake or stir them constantly over a clear fire until they have boiled a couple of minuses, then add an ounce and a half of butter cut small, keep the sauce stirred until this is entirely dissolved, give the whole a minute’s boil, and serve it quickly. The more usual mode is to put the butter in at first with the flour and water; but for inexperienced or unskilful cooks the safer plan is to follow the present receipt. Water, I pint; flour, 1 teaspoonful: 2 minutes. Butter, 1 \ oz.: 1 minute. Obs.—To render this a rich sauce, increase or even double the proportion of butter. FRENCH MELTED BUTTER. Pour half a pint of good, but not very thick, boiling melted butter, to the well-beaten yolks of two very fresh eggs, and stir them briskly as it is added ; put the sauce again into the sauce- pan, and shake it high over the fire for an instant, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Add a little lemon-juice or vinegar, and serve it immediately. NORFOLK SAUCE, OR, RICH MELTED BUTTER WITHOUT FLOUR. Put three tablespoonsful of water into a small saucepan, and when it boils add four ounces of fresh butter; as soon as this is quite dissolved, take the saucepan from the fire and shake it round until the sauce looks thick and smooth. It must not be allowed to boil after the butter is added. Water, 3 tablespoonsful; butter, 4 ozs. WHITE MELTED BUTTER. Thicken half a pint of new milk with rather less flour than is directed for the common melted butter, or with a little arrow- root, and stir into it by degrees after it has boiled, a couple of ounces of fresh butter cut small; do not cease to stir the sauce until this is entirely dissolved, or it may become oiled, and float