410 [chap. XIX. MODERN COOKERY. should be well and lightly whisked; the lard for frying batter should be extremely pure in flavour, and quite hot when the fritters are dropped in; the batter itself should be smooth as cream, and it should be briskly beaten the instant before it is used. All fried pastes should be perfectly drained from the fat before they are served, and sent to table promptly when they are ready. Eggs may be dressed in a multiplicity of ways, but are seldom, in any form, more relished than in a well-made and expeditiously served omlet. This may be plain, or seasoned with minced herbs, and a very little eschalot, when the last is liked, and is then called an “ Omlette aux fines herbes; ” or it may be mixed with minced ham, or grated cheese ; in any case, it should be light, thick, full-tasted, and fried oyily on one side ; if turned in the pan, as it frequently is in England, it will at once be flattened and rendered tough. Should the slight raw- ness which is sometimes found in the middle of the inside, when the omlet is made in the French way, be objected to, a heated shovel, or a salamander, may be held over it for an instant, before it is folded on the dish. The pan for frying it should be quite small; for if it be composed of four or five eggs only, and then put into a large one, it will necessarily spread over it and be thin, which would render it more like a pancake than an omlet; the only partial remedy for this, when a pan of pro- per size cannot be had, is to raise the handle of it high, and to keep the opposite side close down to the fire, which will confine the eggs into a smaller space. No gravy should ever be poured into the dish with it, and indeed, if properly made, it will require none. Lard is preferable to butter for frying batter, as it ren- ders it lighter; but it must not be used for omlets. A COMMON OMLET. From four to eight very fresh eggs jnay be used for this, according to the sized dish required. Half a dozen will gene- rally be sufficient. Break them singly and carefully; clear them in the way we have already pointed out in the introduc- tion to boiled puddings, or when they are sufficiently whisked pour them through a sieve, and resume the beating until they are very light. Add to them from half to a whole teaspoonful of salt, and a seasoning of pepper. Dissolve in a small frying- pan a couple of ounces of butter, pour in the eggs, and as soon as the omlet is well risen and firm throughout, slide it on to a hot dish, fold it together like a turnover, and serve it imme~ diately ; from five to seven minutes will fry it.