MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. I. S3 stewed, 1 hour. Stock, 3 pints (in addition to the first quart) ; currie-powder and thickening each, 2 large tablespoonsful: 20 minutes. Flesh of part of calf’s head and sweetbread, 15 minutes, or more. Thick cream, 1 cupful; flour, or arrow-root, 1 teaspoonful: boiled 2 minutes, and stirred to the soup. Chili ■vinegar, 1 tablespoonful, or lemon-juice, 2 tablespoonsful. Obs. 1.—The brain of the calf’s head stewed for twenty minutes in a little of the stock, then rubbed through a sieve, diluted gradually with more of the stock, and added as thicken- ing to the soup, will be found an admirable substitute for part of the flour. Obs. 2.—Three or four pounds of a breast of veal, or an equal weight of mutton, free from bone and fat, may take the place of rabbits or fowls in this soup, for a plain dinner. The veal should be cut into squares of an inch and a half, or into strips of an inch in width, and two in length; and the mutton should be trimmed down in the same way, or into very small cutlets. Obs. 3.—For an elegant table, the joints of rabbit or of fowl should always be boned before they are added to the soup, for which, in this case, a couple of each will be needed for a single tureen, as all the inferior joints must be rejected. TO BOIL RICE FOR MULLAGATAWNT SOUPS, OR FOR CURRIES. The Patna, or small-grained rice, which is not so good as the Carolina for the general purposes of cookery, is the sort which ought to be served with currie. First take out the unhusked grains, then wash the rice in two or three different waters, and put it into a large quantity of cold; bring it gently to boil, keeping it uncovered, and boil it softly for fifteen minutes, when it will be perfectly tender, and every grain will remain distinct. Throw it into a large cullender, and let it drain for ten minutes near the fire; should it not then appear quite dry, turn it into a dish, and set it for a short time into a gentle oven, or let it steam in a clean saucepan near the fire. It should neither be stirred, except just at first, to prevent its lumping while it is still quite hard, nor touched with either fork or spoon; the stewpan may be shaken occasionally, should the rice seem to require it, and it should be thrown lightly from the cullender upon the dish. A couple of minutes before it is done, throw in some salt, and from the time of its beginning to boil, remove the scum as it rises. Patna rice, l lb.; cold water, 2 quarts: boiled slowly, 15 minutes. Salt, 1 large teaspoonful. Obs.—This, of all the modes of boiling rice, which we have