485 CHAP. XXI.] PRESERVES. The Orleans plum may be substituted for greengages in this receipt. Greengages, stoned and skinned, 6 lbs.: 50 minutes. Sugar, 41 lbs.: 5 to 8 minutes. PRESERVE OF THE MAGNUM BONUM, OR MOGUE PLUM. Prepare, weigh, and boil the plums for forty minutes ; stir to them half their weight of good sugar beaten fine, and when it is dissolved continue the boiling for ten additional minutes, and skim the preserve carefully during the time. This is an excel- lent marmalade, but it may be rendered richer by increasing the proportion of sugar. The blanched kernels of a portion of the fruit stones will much improve its flavour, but they should be mixed with it only two or three minutes before it is taken from the fire. When these plums are not entirely ripe, it is difficult to free them from the stones and skins : they should then be boiled down and pressed through a sieve, as directed for green- gages, in the receipt above. Mogul plums, skinned and stoned, 6 lbs.: 40 minutes. Su- gar, 3 lbs.: 5 to 8 minutes. TO DRY OR PRESERVE MOGUL PLUMS IN SYRUP. Pare the plums, but do not remove the stalks or stones; take their weight of dry sifted sugar, lay them into a deep dish or bowl, and strew it over them; let them remain thus for a night, then pour them gently into a preserving pan, with all the sugar, heat them slowly, and let them just simmer for five minutes ; in a couple of days repeat the process, and do so again and again at an interval of two or three days, until the fruit is tender and very clear; put it then into jars, and keep it in the syrup, or drain and dry the plums very gradually, as directed for other fruit. When they are not sufficiently ripe for the skin to part from them readily, they must be covered with spring water, placed over a slow fire, and just scalded until it can be stripped from them easily. MUSSEL PLUM CHEESE AND JELLY. Pill large stone jars with the fruit, which should be ripe, dry, and sound; set them into an oven from which the bread has been drawn several hours, and let them remain all night; or, if this cannot conveniently lie done, place them in pans of water, and boil them gently until the plums are tender, and have