BAKED PUDDINGS. CHAP. XVIII.] 399 Rice, 4 ozs.; new milk, l\; butter, 2 ozs.; sugar, 3 ozs.; eggs, 4; rind of ^ lemon : 30 to 40 minutes, slow oven. RICE PUDDING MERINGUE. Swell gently four ounces of Carolina rice in a pint and a quarter of milk or of thin cream ; let it cool a little, and stir to it an ounce and a half of butter, three of pounded sugar, a grain or two of salt, the grated rind of a small lemon, and the yolks of four large, or of five small eggs. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered dish, and lay lightly and equally over the top the whites of four eggs, beaten as for sponge cakes, and mixed at the instant with from four to five heaped tablespoons- ful of sifted sugar. Bake the pudding half an hour in a mode- rate oven, but do not allow the meringue to be too deeply coloured; it should be of clear brown, and very crisp. Serve it directly it is taken from the oven. Rice, 4 ozs.; milk, or cream, pint; butter, 1| oz.; sugar, 3 ozs.; rind, 1 lemon; yolks of eggs, 4 or 5; the whites beaten to snow, and mixed with as many tablespoonsful of sifted sugar : baked b hour, moderate oven. Obs.—A couple of ounces of Jordan almonds, with six bitter ones, pounded quite to a paste, will improve this dish, whether mixed with the pudding itself, or with the meringue. GOOD GROUND RICE PUDDING. Mix very smoothly five ounces of flour of rice (or of ground rice, if preferred), with half a pint of milk, and pour it into a pint and a half more which is boiling fast; keep it stirred con- stantly over a gentle fire from ten to twelve minutes, and be particularly careful not to let it burn to the pan; add to it before it is taken from the fire, a quarter of a pound of good butter, from five to six ounces of sugar, roughly powdered, and a half-saltspoonful of salt; turn it into a pan, and stir it for a few minutes, to prevent its hardening at the top; then mix with it, by degrees, but quickly, the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of only two, the grated or rasped rind of a fine lemon, and a glass of brandy. Lay a border of rich paste round a buttered dish, pour in the pudding, strain a little clarified butter over the top, moisten the paste with a brush, or small bunch of feathers dipped in cold water, and sift plenty of sugar on it, but less over the pudding itself. Send it to a very gentle oven to be baked for three quarters of an hour. Rice-flour (or ground rice), 5 ozs.; new milk, 1 quart: 10 to 12 minutes. Butter, 4 ozs. j sugar, 5 to 6 ozs.; salt, \ saltspooa-