POULTRY. CHAP. XII.] 259 The turkey may be partially filled with the forcemeat No. I or 3, of Chapter VI., and the sausage-meat may then be placed on either side of it. Hen turkey between 7 and 8 lbs. weight, boned, filled with sausage-meat, 3 to 4 lbs.; or with forcemeat No. 1, or with No. 3, Chapter VI., 1 lb. (that is to say, 1 lb. of bread-crumbs, and the other ingredients in proportion.) Sausage-meat, 2 to 3 lbs. roasted If hour. Obs.—When a common spit is used for the turkey, it must be fastened to, and not put upon it. Bread sauce can be served with the bird, or not, at pleasure. It will be found an improvement to moisten the sausage- meat with one or two spoonsful of water: it should be finely minced, well spiced, and mixed with herbs, when the common forcemeat is not used in addition. In preparing it a pound and a quarter of fat should be mixed with each pound of the lean. To give the turkey a very good appearance, the breast may be larded by the directions of page 166. TURKEY A LA FLAMANDE, OR, DINDE POUDREE. Prepare as for boiling a fine well-kept hen turkey; wipe the inside thoroughly with a dry cloth, but do not wash it; throw in a little salt to draw out the blood, let it remain a couple of hours or more, then drain and wipe it again; next, rub the outside in every part with about four ounces of fine dry salt, mixed with a large tablespoonful of pounded sugar; rub the turkey well with these, and turn it every day for four days; then fill it entirely with equal parts of choice sausage-meat, and of the crumb of bread soaked in boiling milk or cream, and wrung dry in a cloth; season these with the grated rind cf a large lemon, a small nutmeg, some mace, cayenne, and fine herbs, in the same proportion as for veal forcemeat (No. 1, page 143). Sew the turkey up very securely, and when trussed, roll it in a cloth, tie it closely at both ends, and boil it very gently be- tween three and four hours. When taken up, sprinkle it thickly with fine crumbs of bread, mixed with plenty of parsley, shred extremely small. Serve it cold, with a sauce made of the strained juice and grated rind of two lemons, a teaspoonful of made- mustard, and one of pounded sugar, with as much oil as will pre- vent its being more than pleasantly acid, and a little salt, if needed; work these together until perfectly mixed, and send them to table in a tureen. This receipt was given to us abroad, by a Flemish lady, who had had tl:e dish often served with great success in Paris. We