MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. X. £24 SUPERIOR RECEIPT FOR ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. Cover the joint well with cold water, bring it gradually to boil, and let it simmer gently for half an hour ; then lift it out, put it immediately on to the spit, and roast it from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half, according to its weight. This mode of dressing the joint renders it remarkably juicy and ten- der ; but there must be no delay in putting it on the spit after it is lifted from the water. A mild ragout of garlic (see page 122,) may be served in the dish with it, or it may be garnished with roast tomatas. Boiled, \ hour; roast, If to 1| hour. BRAISED EEG OF MUTTON. Take out the bone as far as the first joint by the directions of the following receipt, roll some large strips of bacon in a seasoning of mixed spice, and of savoury herbs minced extremely fine, or dried and reduced to powder, and with these lard the inside of the boned portion of the joint; or fill the cavity with forcemeat highly seasoned with eschalot or garlic. Sew up the meat, and place it in a braising-pan, or ham-kettle nearly of its size, with slices of bacon under and over it, two or three onions, four or five carrots, two bay leaves, a large bunch of savoury herbs, a few bones, or bits of undressed mutton or veal, and about three quarters of a pint of gravy. Stew the meat as softly as possible from four to five hours, and keep live embers on the top of the pan (or, as this mode of cooking is not general in England, set the mutton, if it can be done conveniently, into a moderately-heated oven, after having luted the edges of the vessel in which it is arranged, with a bit of coarse paste) ; lift it out, strain the gravy, reduce it quickly to glaze, and brush the meat with it; or merely strain, free it from fat, and pour it over the mutton. White beans (haricots b lanes), boiled tender and well drained, or a mild ragout of garlic or eschalots, may be laid in the dish under it. The joint can be braised equally well without any part of it being boned. 4 to 5 hours. LEG OF MUTTON BONED AND FORCED. Turn the underside of the mutton upwards, and with a sharp knife cut through the middle of the skin from the knuckle to the first joint, and raise it from the flesh on the side along which the bone runs, until the knife is just above it, then cut through the flesh down to the bone; work the knife round it in every