454« MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XX' with the cupful of cream, and stir the rest boiling to them: thicken the custard like the preceding one. Cream, 1 quart; sugar, 4 ozs.; yolks of eggs, 8. THE queen’s CUSTARD. On the beaten and strained yolks of twelve new laid eggs pour a pint and a half of boiling cream which has been sweetened, with three ounces of sugar; add the smallest pinch of salt, and thicken the custard as usual. When nearly cold, flavour it with a glass and a half of noyeau, maraschino, or cuirasseau, and add the sliced almonds or not, at pleasure. Yolks of eggs, 12; cream, l.i pint; sugar, 3 ozs.; little salt; noyeau, maraschino, or cuirasseau, 3i wineglassful. CURRANT CUSTARD. Eoil in a pint of clear currant-juice ten ounces of sugar for three minutes, take off the scum, and pour the boiling juice on eight well beaten eggs; thicken the custard in a jug set into a pan of water, pour it out, stir it till nearly cold, then add to it carefully, and by degrees, half a pint of rich cream, and last of all two tablespoonsful of strained lemon-juice. When the cur- rants are very ripe omit one ounce of the sugar. White currants and strawberries, cherries, red or white rasp- berries, or a mixture of any of these fruits, may be used for these custards with good effect: they are excellent. Currant-juice, 1 pint; sugar, 10 ozs.: 3 minutes. Eggs, 8; cream, \ pint; lemon-juice, 2 tablespoonsful. QUINCE, OR APPLE CUSTARDS. Add to a pint of apple-juice prepared as for jelly, a table- spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and from four to six ounces of sugar according to the acidity of the fruit; stir these boiling, quickly, and in small portions, to eight well-beaten eggs, and thicken the custard in a jug placed in a pan of boiling water, in the usual manner. A larger proportion of lemon-juice and a high flavouring of the rind can be given when approved. For quince custards, which if well made are excellent, observe the same directions as for the apple, but omit the lemon-juice. As we have before observed, all custards are much finer when made with the yolks only of the eggs, of which the number must be increased nearly half, when this is done. Prepared apple-juice (see page 427), 1 pint; lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful; sugar, 4 to 6 ozs.; eggs, 8. Quince custards, same proportions, but no lemon-juice.