90 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. III. the gravy boil gently for an hour and a half, or longer, if it he not thick and rich. Strain it through a fine sieve, and take off the fat. Spice or catsup may he added at pleasure. Mutton kidneys, 3; butter, 2 ozs.; onion, 1 ; fine herbs, 1 teaspoonful: \ hour. Water, 1 pint; salt, \ teaspoonful; little cayenne, or black pepper: \\ hour. Obs.—This is an excellent gravy for haricots, curries, or hashes of mutton: it may be much improved by the addition of two or three eschalots, and a small bit or two of lean meat. GRAVY IN HASTE. Chop fine a few bits of lean meat, a small onion, a few slices of carrot and turnip, arid a little thyme and parsley; put these with half an ounce of butter into a thick saucepan, and keep them stirred until they are slightly browned; add a little spice, and water in the proportion of a pint to a pound of meat: clear the gravy from scum, let it boil half an hour, then strain it for use. Meat, 1 lb.; 1 small onion; little carrot, turnip, thyme, and parsley; butter, \ oz.; cloves, 6; corns of pepper, 12: water, 1 pint: I hour. CHEAP GRAVY FOR A ROAST FOWL. When there is neither broth nor gravy to be had, nor meat of which either can be made, boil the neck of the fowl after having cut it small, in half a pint of water with any slight seasonings of spice or herbs, or with a little salt and pepper only; it should stew very softly for an hour or more, or the quantity will be too much reduced. When the bird is just ready for table, take the gravy from the dripping-pan, and drain off the fat from it as closely as possible ; strain the liquor from the neck to it, mixing them smoothly, pass the gravy again through the strainer, heat it, add salt and pepper or cayenne, if needed, and serve it extremely hot. When this is done, the fowl should be basted with good butter only,-and well floured when it is first laid to the fire. Many cooks always mix the gravy from the pan when game is roasted with that ■which they send to table with it, as they think that this enriches the flavour; but it is not always considered an improvement by the eaters. ISTeck of fowl; water, \ pint; pepper, salt (little vegetable and spice at choice) : stewed gently, 1 hour; strained, stirred to the gravy of the roast, well cleared from fat.