345 PASTRY. CHAP. XVI. J sufficient water poured in to make the gravy, and keep the meat moist. Lay on the cover, and be careful always to brush the edge in every part with egg or cold water, then join it securely to the paste which is round the rim, trim both off close to the dish, pass the point of the knife through the middle of the cover, lay some slight roll or ornament of paste round it, and decorate the border of the pie in any of the usual modes, which are too common to require description. Send the pie to a well-heated, but not fierce oven for about an hour and twenty minutes. To make a richer beef-steak pie put bearded oysters in alternate layers with the meat, add their strained liquor to a little good gravy, in which the beards may be sim- mered for a few minutes, to give it further flavour, and make a light puff paste for the crust. Some eaters like it seasoned with a small portion of minced onion or eschalot when the oysters are omitted. Mushrooms improve all meat-pies. 1 to 1^ hour. MUTTON PIE. (Common.') A pound and a quarter of flour will make sufficient paste for a moderate-sized pie, and two pounds of mutton freed from the greater portion of the fat will fill it. Butter a dish, and line it with about half the paste rolled thin; lay in the mutton evenly, and sprinkle over it three quarters of an ounce of salt, and from half to a whole teaspoonful of pepper according to the taste; pour in cold water to within an inch of the brim. Roll the cover, which should be quite half an inch thick, to the size of the dish; wet the edges of the paste with cold water or white of egg, be careful to close them securely, cut them off close to the rim of the dish, stick the point of the knife through the centre, and bake the pie an hour and a quarter in a well- heated oven. Fluor, 1^ lb.; dripping, \ lb. (or suet, \ lb. and butter, 2 ozs.). Mutton, 2 lbs.; salt, f oz.; pepper, half to whole teaspoonful; water, | pint: 1 i hour. A GOOD MUTTON PIE. Lay a hdf-paste of short or of puff crust round a buttered dish ; take the whole or part of a loin of mutton, strip off the fat entirely, and raise the flesh clear from the bones without dividing it, then slice it into cutlets of equal thickness, season them well with salt and pepper, or cayenn:, and strew between the layers some finely-minced herbs mixed with two or three