MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XIX. 424 without, and may he substituted for maccaroni, which it much resembles in flavour. In Italy, the flour of Indian corn (maize), which is there called polenta, is used for it*, but the semoulina, when good, answers the purpose perfectly. The dish may be enriched by adding butter to the milk, or by mixing with it a portion of cream; and it may be browned in a Dutch oven, when no other is in use. New milk (or milk mixed with cream), 1 quart; salt, large \ teaspoonful; semoulina, 5 ozs.: 10 minutes. Grated cheese, 6 to 8 ozs.; cayenne, \ teaspoonful; mace, 1 small teaspoonful; butter, 2 to 3 ozs.: baked \ hour, gentle oven. Obs.—A plain mould can be used instead of the basin. FORCED EGGS FOR SALAD. Pound and press through the back of a hair-sieve, the flesh of three very fine, or of four moderate-sized anchovies, freed from the bones and skin. Boil six fresh eggs for twelve minutes, and when they are perfectly cold, halve them length- wise, take out the yolks, pound them to a paste with a third of their volume of fresh butter, then add the anchovies, a quarter-teaspoonful of mace, and as much cayenne as will season the mixture well; beat these together thoroughly, and fill the whites of egg neatly with them. A morsel of garlic, not larger than a pea, perfectly blended with the other ingre- dients, would to some tastes greatly improve this preparation: a portion of anchovy-butter (see page 127), or of potted ham, will supply the place of the fish in it very advantageously. Eggs, 6; anchovies, 4; butter, size of 2 yolks ; mace, I teaspoonful; cayenne, third as much. FORCED EGGS, OR EGGS EN SURPRISE. (ENTREMETS.) Boil, and divide, as in the receipt above, half a dozen very fresh eggs ; pound the yolks perfectly, first by themselves, then with three ounces of good butter, a seasoning of salt, cayenne, and nutmeg, or mace, a large teaspoonful or more of minced parsley, and the yolks of two raw eggs. Slice a small bit off the whites to make them stand flat, hollow the insides well, fill them smoothly with the yolks, form a small dome in the centre of the dish with the remainder of the mixture, and lean * This may be purchased in London at the Italian warehouses, and will be found of excellent effect for biscuits and baked puddings, as well as for this preparation.