151 CHAP. VI.] FORCEMEATS. as it will become without burning: it will adhere in a ball to the spoon, and leave the saucepan quite dry "when it is sufficiently done. Mix with it, while it is still hot, the yolk of one egg, and when it is quite cold, add it to the veal with three ounces of very fresh butter, a quarter-teaspoonful of mace, half as much cayenne, a little nutmeg, and a saltspoonful of salt. When these are perfectly beaten, and well blended together, add another whole egg after having merely taken out the germs; the mixture will then be ready for use, and may be moulded into balls, or small thick oval shapes, a little flattened, and poached in soup or gravy from ten to fifteen minutes. These quenelles may be served by themselves in a rich sauce, as a corner dish, or in conjunction with other things. They may likewise be first poached for three or four minutes, and left on a drainer to become cold; then dipped into egg and the finest bread-crumbs, and fried, and served as croquettes. NO. 18. FORCEMEAT FOR RAISED AND OTHER COLD PIES. The very finest sausage-meat, highly seasoned, and made with an equal proportion of fat and lean, is an exceedingly good forcemeat for veal, chicken, rabbit, and some few other pies; savoury herbs minced small, may be added to heighten its fla- vour, if it be intended for immediate eating; but it will not then remain good quite so long, unless they should have been previously dried. To prevent its being too dry, two or three spoonsful of cold water should be mixed with it before it is put into the pie. One pound of lean veal to one and a quarter of the pork-fat is sometimes used, and smoothly pounded with a high seasoning of spices, herbs, and eschalots, or garlic, but we cannot recommend the introduction of these last into pies unless they are especially ordered : mushrooms may be mixed with any kind of forcemeat with far better effect. Equal parts of veal and fat bacon, will also make a good forcemeat for pies, if chopped finely, and well spiced. Sausage-meat, well seasoned. Or: veal, 1 lb.; pork-fat, 11 lb.; salt, 1 oz.; pepper, to i oz.; fine herbs, spice, &c., as in forcemeat ISTo. 1, or sausage-meat. Or : veal and bacon, equal weight, seasoned in the same way. PANADA. This is the name given to the soaked bread which is mixed with the French forcemeats, and which renders them so pecu- liarly delicate. Pour on the crumb of two or three rolls, or on that of any other very light bread, as much good boiling broth,.