584b APPENDIX. spoonful of distilled or of extremely pale vinegar, and a small saltspoonful of salt, and place it over a fire quite free from smoke. Break some new-laid eggs into separate cups, and do this with care, that the yolks may not be injured. When the water boils, draw back the pan, slip the eggs gently into it, and let them stand until the whites appear almost set, which will be in about a minute ; then, without shaking them, move the pan over the fire, and boil them softly from two minutes and a half to three minutes. Lift them out separately with a slice, trim quickly off the ragged edges, and serve them upon dressed spinach, or upon minced veal, turkey, or chicken ; or dish them for an invalid, upon delicately toasted bread, sliced thick, and freed from crust: it is an improvement to have the bread but- tered, but it is then less wholesome. Some cooks drop the eggs at once into the water when it boils, and leave them in it for nearly or quite three minutes. We find either mode successful. To stand in the water 1 minute; to simmer from 2 minutes and a \ to 3 minutes; or to boil 3 minutes. Obs. Good cooks sometimes strike off the end of the egg which is to be poached, and drop it from the shell into the water, turning it, at the same time round in the hand : this an- swers well if adroitly done, not otherwise. POACHED EGGS WITH GRAVY. (ENTREMETS.) CEufs Poches au Jus. Dress the eggs as above, giving them as good an appearance as possible, lay them into a very hot dish, and sauce them with some rich, clear, boiling veal gravy, or with some Espagnole. Each egg, for variety, may be dished upon a crouton of bread cut with a fluted paste-cutter, and fried a pale brown: the sauce should then be poured round, not over them. BROILED EELS WITH SAGE. (ENTREE.) (German receipt.) Skin, open, and cleanse one fine eel (or more), cut it into finger-lengths, rub it with a mixed seasoning of salt and white pepper, and leave it for half an hour. Wipe it dry, wrap each length in sage leaves, fasten them round it with coarse thread, roll the eel in good salad oil or clarified butter, lay it on the gridiron, squeeze lemon-juice over, and broil it gently until it is browned in every part. Send it to table with a sauce made of two or three ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of Chili, tar-