MODERN COOKERY. 262 [chap. XII. pounded mace, salt, and cayenne, will impart much more of flavour to the fowl. Full-sized fowl, 1 hour: young chicken, 25 to 35 minutes. Obs.—As we have already observed in our general remarks on roasting, the time must be regulated by various circum- stances, which we named, and which the cook should always take into consideration. A buttered paper should be fastened over the breast, and removed about fifteen minutes before the fowl is served : this will prevent its taking too much colour. ROAST FOWL. (A French Receipt.) Fill the breast of a fine fowl with good forcemeat, roast it as usual, and when it is very nearly ready to serve take it from the fire, pour lukewarm butter over it in every part, and strew it thickly with very fine bread-crumbs; sprinkle these again with butter, and dip the fowl into more crumbs. Put it down to the fire, and when it is of a clear, light brown all over, take it care- fully from the spit, dish, and serve it with lemon-sauce, and with gravy thickened and mixed with plenty of minced parsley, or with brown gravy and any other sauce usually served with fowls. Savoury herbs shred small, spice, and lemon-grate, may be mixed with the crumbs at pleasure. Do not pour gravy over the fowl when it is thus prepared. TO ROAST A GUINEA FOWL. Let the bird hang for as many days as the weather will allow; then stuff', truss, roast, and serve it like a turkey, or leave the head on and lard the breast. Send gravy and bread- sauce to table with it in either case : it will be found excellent eating. f to 1 hour. FOWL A LA CARLSFORT. (ENTREE.) Bone a fowl without opening the back, and restore it to its original form by filling the vacant spaces in the legs and wings with forcemeat; put a roll of it also into the body, and a large sausage on either side; tie it very securely at both ends, truss it with fine skewers, and roast it for a full hour, keeping it basted plentifully with butter. When appearance is not regarded, the pinions may be taken off, and the legs and wings drawn inside the fowl, which will then, require a much smaller proportion of forcemeat:—that directed for veal (No. 1, page 143), will answer quite well in a general way, but for a dinner of cere-