CHAP. II.] 77 FISH. TO BOIL SHRIMPS. Pick out the large ones, and let the smaller he thrown hack into the sea. Have ready boiling plenty of water, add salt in the proportion of from five to six ounces to the gallon, take off the scum, put in the shrimps, and in four or five minutes they will be done. Pour them into a cullender to drain, then spread them on a soft cloth to cool; or, dish them directly on a napkin and send them hot to table. 4 to 5 minutes. Obs.—Keady-dressed shrimps or prawns may be preserved fit for eating at least twelve hours longer than they would other- wise keep, by throwing them for an instant into boiling salt and water when they first begin to loose their freshness, and then draining them as above. ' CROUTE AUX CREVETTES, OR SHRIMP-TOAST. Shell two quarts of fine fresh shrimps, bruise the heads, and boil them in a pint and a half of water for half an hour ; then strain the liquor through a muslin, or very fine sieve. Set two ounces of butter over the fire in a saucepan, and when it begins to simmer, stir in a teaspoonful of flour, a quarter-spoonful of mace in powder, some cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg, and shake the whole often until the flour begins to brown; then pour in by degrees the liquor in which the heads were stewed, and when the sauce boils, add the shrimps ; as soon as they are quite hot through, pour them into a toast made of the bottom crust of a loaf cut more than an inch thick, slightly hollowed in the inside, and fried in fresh butter a light brown. Veal- broth is a good substitute for the liquor made of the heads, which has rather a peculiar flavour. A few drops of essence of anchovies are considered by many persons an improvement to it. A glass of sherry, and a little lemon-juice, are also sometimes added to the above: the beaten yolks of two or three eggs stirred in just as it is taken from the fire, will be found a good addition to it. SHRIMP-TOAST A LA REUSE. Substitute three quarters of a pint of veal-gravy for the shrimp-liquor of the preceding receipt; boil in it for ten minutes the rind of a very small lemon cut extremely thin, put the same proportion of butter, flour, and spice, as for the Croute aux Crevettes, but pour the gravy to them before the roux begins to brown. Have ready-boiling, a quarter-pint of rich cream,