38 MODERN COOKERY. [[CHAP. I. may be needed, whether of salt, cayenne, or acid, and serve the soup extremely hot. Should any butter appear on the surface, let it be carefully skimmed off, or stir in a small dessertspoonful of arrow-root (smoothly mixed with a little cold broth or water) to absorb it. Rice may be served with this soup at pleasure, but as it is of the consistency of winter peas soup, it scarcely requires any addition. The currie powder may be altogether omitted for variety, and the whole converted into a plain vege- table potage; or it may be rendered one of high savour, by browning all the vegetables lightly, and adding to them rich brown stock. Tomatas, when in season, may be substituted for the apples, after being divided, and freed from their seeds. Butter, 4 ozs.; vegetable marrow, pared and scooped, 3 lbs.; large mi Id onions, 4 ; large cucumbers, 4; or middling-sized, 6 ; apples, or tomatas, 3 to 6 : 30 to 40 minutes. Mild currie- powder, 3 heaped tablespoonsful; salt, one small tablespoonful: 20 to 32 minutes. Water, broth, or good stock, 2 quarts. CUCUMBER SOUP. Pare, split, and empty from eight to twenty* fine, well grown, but not old cucumbers,—those which have the fewest seeds are best for the purpose; throw a little salt over them, and leave them for an hour to drain, then put them with the white part only of a couple of mild onions, into a deep stewpan, or delicately clean saucepan, cover them nearly half an inch with pale, but good veal stock, and stew them gently until they are perfectly tender, which will be in from three quarters of an hour to an hour and a quarter; press the whole through a hair- sieve, and add to it as much more stock as may be needed to make the quantity of soup required for table; and as the cucumbers, from their watery nature, will thicken it but little, stir to it when it boils, as much arrow-root, rice-flour, or tous les mots (see page 4), as will bring it to a good consistency; add from half to a whole pint of boiling cream, and serve the soup immediately. Salt and cayenne, sufficient to season it, should be thrown over the cucumbers while they are stewing. The yolks of six or eight eggs, mixed with a dessertspoonful of Chili vinegar, may be used for this soup instead of cream; three dessertspoonsful of minced parsley may then be strewed into it a couple of minutes before they are added: it must not, of course, be allowed to boil after they' are stirred in. * This is a great disparity of numbers; but some regard must be had to expense, where the vegetable cannot be obtained with facility.