PASTRY. CHAP'. XVI.] paste like a blanket pudding, roll it out again, lay on it six ounces more of butter, repeat the rolling, dusting each time a little flour over the board and paste, add again six ounces of butter, and roll the paste out thin three or four times, folding the ends into the middle. Flour, 2 lbs.; little salt; butter, 1 lb. 10 ozs. If very rich paste be required, equal portions of flour and butter must be used; and the latter may be divided into two, instead of three parts, when it is to be rolled in. CREAM CRUST. ( Viery good,.') Stir a little fine salt into a pound of dry flour, and mix gra- dually with it sufficient very thick, sweet cream to form a smooth paste; it will be found sufficiently good for common family dinners, without the addition of butter; but to make an excellent crust, roll in. four ounces in the usual way, after having given the paste a couple of turns. Handle it as lightly as possible in making it, and send it to the oven as soon as it is ready; it may be used for fruit tarts, cannelons, puffs, and other varieties of small pastry, or for good meat pies. Six ounces of butter to the pound of flour mil give a very rich crust. Flour, 1 lb.; salt, 1 small saltspoonful (more for meat pies) ; rich cream, \ to ยง pint; butter, 4 ozs.: for richest crust, 6 ozs. PATS BR1SE.E, OR FRENCH CRUST FOR HOT OR COED MEAT PIES. Sift two pounds and a quarter of fine dry flour, and break into it one pound of butter, work them together with the fingers until they resemble fine crumbs of bread, then add a small tea- spoonful of salt, and make them into a firm paste, with the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, mixed with half a pint of cold water, and strained: or for a somevdiat richer crust of the same kind, take tvro pounds of flour, one of butter, the yolks of four eggs, half an ounce of salt, and less than the half pint of water, and work the whole wrell until the paste is perfectly smooth. Flour, 2\ lbs.; butter, 1 lb.; salt, 1 small teaspoonful; yolks of eggs, 4; wTater, l pint. Or: flour, 2 lbs.; butter, 1 lb.; yolks of eggs, 4 ; wrater, less than f pint. FLEAD CRUST. Flead is the provincial name for the leaf, or inside fat of a pig, which makes excellent crust when fresh, much finer, indeed, z