472 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XXI. Juice of red gooseberries, 3 lbs.; juice of white currants, 1 lb.: l£> minutes. Sugar, 2 lbs.: 6 minutes. Obs.—The same proportion of red currant juice, mixed with that of the gooseberries makes an exceedingly nice jelly. UNMIXED GOOSEBERRY JELLY. Boil rapidly for ten minutes four pounds of the juice of red gooseberries, prepared as in the preceding receipt; take it from the fire, and stir in it until dissolved three pounds of sugar beaten to powder; boil it again for five minutes, keeping it constantly stirred and thoroughly skimmed. Juice of red gooseberries, 4 lbs.: 10 minutes. Sugar, 3 lbs.: 5 minutes. GOOSEBERRY PASTE. Press through a sieve the gooseberries from which the juice has been taken for jelly, without having been drained very closely from them; weigh and then boil the pulp for upwards of an hour and a quarter, or until it forms a dry paste in the pan; stir to it, off the fire, six ounces of good pounded sugar for each pound of the fruit, and when this is nearly dissolved boil the preserve from twenty to twenty-five minutes, keeping it stirred without cessation, as it will be liable to burn should this be neglected. Put it into moulds, or shallow pans, and turn it out when wanted for table. Pulp of gooseberries, 4 lbs.: 1^ to If hour. Sugar, lb.: 20 to 25 minutes. TO DRY RIPE GOOSEBERRIES WITH SUGAR. Cut the tops, but not the stalks, from some ripe gooseberries of the largest size, either red or green ones, and after having taken out the seeds as directed for unripe gooseberries, boil the fruit until clear and tender, in syrup made with a pound of sugar to the pint of water, boiled until rather thick. Seeded gooseberries, 2 lbs.; sugar, 1 \ lb.; water, 1 pint: boiled to syrup. Gooseberries, simmered 8 to 12 minutes, or more. Obs.—Large ripe gooseberries stripped of their buds, and put into cold syrup in which cherries or any other fruit has been boiled for drying, then heated very gradually, and kept at the point of boiling for a few minutes before they are set by for a couple of days, answer extremely well as a dry preserve. On the third day the syrup should be drained from them, sim- mered, skimmed, and poured on them the instant it is taken