MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. IT, 76 the fish, which after being heated should he laid evenly into the shells after they have been split quite through the centre of the backs in their entire length, without being broken or divided at the joint, and nicely cleaned. When thus arranged, the lobster may be thickly covered with well-dried, fine, pale, fried crumbs of bread; or with unfried ones, which must then be equally moistened with clarified butter, and browned with a salamander. A small quantity of salt, mace, and cayenne, may be required to finish the flavouring of either of these preparations. BUTTERED CRAB, OR LOBSTER. In season during the same time as Lobsters. Slice quite small, or pull into light flakes with a couple of forks, the flesh of either fish ; put it into a saucepan with a few bits of good butter lightly rolled in flour, and heat it slowly over a gentle fire ; then pour over and mix thoroughly with it, from one to two teaspoonsful of made-mustard smoothly blended with a tablespoonful or more of common or of Chili vinegar: if with the former, add to it a tolerable seasoning of cayenne. Grate in a little nutmeg, and when the whole is well heated serve it immediately either in the shell of the crab or lobster, or in scollop-shells, and serve it plain, or with bread-crumbs over, as in the preceding receipt. A spoonful or so of good meat jelly is, we think, a great improvement to this dish, for which an ounce and a half of butter will be quite sufficient. Crabs are boiled like lobsters. TO BOIL CRAYFISH. Throw them into water salted as for lobsters, and when they have boiled a quarter of an hour, take them up, and drain them well. 15 minutes. TO BOIL PRAWNS. Let them have plenty of water salted as for shrimps, put them in when it is boiling fast, clear oft all the scum as it rises, and in from six to eight minutes turn them into a cullender or sieve, and drain them well. Spread them on a large dish or on a soft cloth to cool, and when they are quite cold, dress them upon a very white napkin neatly arranged upon a saucer or small basin reversed in a dish. Garnish the base with curled parsley, and send the prawns to table. They should always be kept in a very cool place until they are served. 6 to 8 minutes.