MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. I. 18 which the chestnuts are boiled can he used for the soup, when its sweetness is not objected to; or it may in part be added to it. Chestnuts, 1 \ lb.: stewed from | to 1 hour. Soup, 2 quarts; seasoning of salt, mace, and cayenne: 1 to 3 minutes. Cream, f pint (when used). JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE, OR PALESTINE SOUP. Wash and pare quickly some freshly-dug artichokes, and to preserve their colour, throw them into spring-water as they are done, but do not let them remain in it after all are ready. Boil three pounds of them in water for ten minutes ; lift them out, and slice them into three pints of boiling stock; when they have stewed gently in this from fifteen to twenty minutes, press them, with the soup, through a fine sieve, and put the whole into a clean saucepan with a pint and a half more of stock ; add suffi- cient salt and cayenne to season it, skim it well, and after it has simmered two or three minutes, stir it to a pint of rich boiling cream. Serve it immediately. Artichokes, 3 lbs. boiled in water : 10 minutes. Yeal stock, 3 pints: 15 to 20 minutes. Additional stock, 1£ pint; little cayenne and salt: 2 to 3 minutes. Boiling cream, 1 pint. Ohs.—The palest veal stock, as for white soup, should be used for this ; but for a family dinner, or where economy is a consi- deration, excellent mutton-broth, made the day before, and per- fectly cleared from fat, will answer very well as a substitute; milk, too, may in part take the place of cream, when this last is scarce : the proportion of artichokes should then be increased a little. Vegetable-marrow, when young, makes a superior soup even to this, which is a most excellent one. It should be well pared, trimmed, and sliced into a small quantity of boiling veal stock, or broth, and when perfectly tender, pressed through a fine sieve, and mixed with more stock, and some cream. In France, the marrow is stewed first in butter, with a large mild onion or two, also sliced; and afterwards in a quart or more of water, which is poured gradually to it; it is next passed through a tammy,* seasoned with pepper and salt, and mixed with a pint or two of milk, and a little cream. COMMON CARROT SOUP. The easiest way of making this soup is to boil some carrots very tender in water slightly salted; then to pound them • Derived from the French tamis, which means a sieve or strainer.