58id APPENDIX. paration is very delicate it should not be over-spiced. Mould it into the form of small cutlets, about the third of an inch thick; stick into each a short bit of the smallest claws; strew the coral lightly over them, so as to give them the appearance of being crumbed with it; arrange them round the dish in which they are to be sent to table; place them in a very gentle oven for eight or ten minutes only, to heat them through, or warm them in a Dutch or American oven, placed at some inches from the fire, that the brilliant colour of the coral may not be de- stroyed, and pour into the centre some good bechamel (see page 97), or the Lady’s Sauce, or the Cream Sauce of Chapter IV. A very white sauce best contrasts with the colour of the cutlets. This is an excellent and elegant dish, of which an admirable variety is made by the addition of three or four ounces of the freshest shrimps, quickly shelled, and chopped before they are thrown into the mortar ; with half an ounce of butter and a little spice. All the coral can be added to the cutlets at pleasure; but it is generally in request for many purposes, and is required for this one, only in part. SUPERLATIVE LOBSTER PATTIES. Form into halls about half the size of a filbert either the cutlet mixture or the pounded lobster above; roll them in the sifted coral, warm them through very gently, have ready some hot patty-cases (see page 351), pour into each a small spoonful of rich white sauce, or Sauce a FAurore (see page 108), lay the balls round the edge, pile a larger one in the centre, and serve the whole very quickly. The Dresden patties of page 570 may be thus filled. LOBSTER SAUSAGES. Prepare the fish as for the cutlets, but pound half or more of the coral with the flesh of the lobsters; shape it like small sausages, sprinkle them with the coral, and heat them through in a Dutch or American oven. They may be brushed with clarified butter before the coral is strewed over them, but they scarcely need it. A fierce degree of heat will destroy the excellence of all these preparations. TO STEAM A PUDDING IN A COMMON STEWPAN OR SAUCEPAN. Butter and fill the mould or basin as usual; tie over it, first, a well-buttered paper, and then a thin floured cloth or muslin,