CHAP. XVI.] 359 FINE PASTRY. form of a dome, but leave a clear space of an inch or more round the edge ; moisten this with white of egg, and press the remaining half of the paste (which should be rolled out to the same size, and laid carefully over the apples) closely upon it: they should be well secured, that the syrup from the fruit may not burst through. Whisk the white of an egg to a froth, brush it over the tart with a small bunch of feathers, sift sugar thickly over, and then strew upon it some almonds blanched and roughly chopped; bake the tart in a moderate oven from thirty-five to forty-five minutes. It may be filled with peaches, or apricots, half stewed, like the apples, or with cherries merely rolled in fine sugar; or with the pastry cream of page 361. Light paste, \ to f lb.; apples, 12 ozs.; butter, 1\ oz.; sugar, 4 ozs.; glazing of egg and sugar; almonds, i oz.: 35 to 45 minutes. PUDDING PIES. (ENTREMETS.) This form of pastry (or its name at least) is, we believe, peculiar to the county of Kent, where it is made in abundance, and eaten by all classes of people during Lent. Boil for fifteen minutes three ounces of ground rice* in a pint and a half of new milk, and when taken from the fire stir into it three ounces of butter and four of sugar; add to these six well-beaten eggs, a grain or two of salt, and a flavouring of nutmeg or lemon-rind at pleasure. When the mixture is nearly cold, line some large pattypans or some saucers with thin puff paste, fill them with it three parts full, strew the tops thickly with currants which have been cleaned and dried, and bake the pudding-pies from fifteen to twenty minutes in a gentle oven. Milk, 1| pint; ground rice, 3 ozs.: 15 minutes. Butter, 3 ozs.; sugar, f lb.; nutmeg or lemon-rind; eggs, 6; currants, 4 to 6 ozs.: 15 to 20 minutes. PUDDING-PIES. {A commoner kind.') One quart of new milk, five ounces of ground rice, butter, one ounce and a half (or more), four ounces of sugar, half a small nutmeg grated, a pinch of salt, four large eggs, and three ounces of currants. COCOA-NUT CHEESE-CAKES. (ENTREMETS.) (Jamaica Receipt.) Break carefully the shell of the nut, that the liquid it con- * Or rice JLour.