CEAP. IX.] 209 YEAL. the joint has simmered for about half an hour, throw in from eight to twelve ounces of well washed rice, and stew the veal gently for an hour and a half longer, or until both the meat and rice are perfectly tender. A seasoning of cayenne and mace in fine powder with more salt, should it be required, must be added twenty or thirty minutes before they are served. For a supe- rior stew good veal broth may be substituted for the water. Veal, 6 lbs.; water, 3 to 4 pints; salt, 1 teaspoonful: 30 to 40 minutes. Rice, 8 to 12 ozs.: II hour. [Seasoning of cayenne, mace, and more salt if needed. A quart or even more of full grown green peas added to the veal as soon as the scum has been cleared off will make a most excellent stew. It should be well seasoned with white pepper, and the mace should be omitted. Two or three cucumbers, pared and freed from the seeds, may be sliced into it when it boils, or four or five young lettuces shred small may be added instead. Green onions also, when they are liked, may be used to give it flavour.] SMALL PAIN DE VEAU, OR, VEAL CAKE. Chop separately, and very fine, a pound and a quarter of veal quite free from fat and skin, and six ounces of beef kidney-suet; add a teaspoonful of salt, a full third as much of white pepper, and of mace or nutmeg, with the grated rind of half a lemon, and turn the whole well together with the chopping-knife until it is thoroughly mixed: then press it smoothly into a small, round baking dish, and send it to a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter. Lift it into a clean, hot dish, and serve it plain, or with a little brown gravy in a tureen. Three ounces of the lean of a boiled ham minced small, will very much im- prove this cake, of which the size can be increased at will, and proportionate time allowed for dressing it. If baked in a hot oven, the meat will shrink to half its proper size, and be very dry. When done, it should be of a fine light brown, and like a cake in appearance. Veal, II lb.; beef-suet, 6 ozs.; salt, 1 teaspoonful; pepper and mace, or nutmeg, f teaspoonful each; rind of \ lemon; ham (when added), 3 ozs.: baked II hour. BORDYKE VEAL CAKE. (Good.) ' Take a pound and a half of veal perfectly clear of fat and skin, and eight ounces of the nicest striped bacon; chop them separately, then mix them well together -with the grated rind of a small lemon, half a teaspoonful of salt, a fourth as much of p