[CHAP. IV. MODERN COOKERY. 118 gravy well seasoned, and stirring in the beaten yolks of two or three eggs, and a little Chili vinegar or lemon-juice, at the in- stant of serving. Another also of cucumbers sliced, and stewed in butter, but without being at all browned, and then boiled in pale veal gravy, which must be thickened with rich cream, is excellent. A morsel of sugar improves this sauce. Cucumbers, 3 : 15 to 18 minutes. White sauce, \ pint. WHITE MUSHROOM SAUCE. Cut off the stems closely from half a pint of small button mushrooms; clean them with a little salt and a bit of flannel, and throw them into cold water, slightly salted, as they are done; drain them well, or dry them in a soft cloth, and throw them into half a pint of boiling bechamel (see page 97), or of white sauce made with very fresh milk, or thin cream, thickened with a tablespoonful of flour, and two ounces of butter. Sim- mer the mushrooms from ten to twenty minutes, or until they are quite tender, and dish the sauce, which should be properly seasoned with salt, mace, and cayenne. Mushrooms, \ pint; white sauce, \ pint; seasoning of salt, mace, and cayenne: 10 minutes. ANOTHER MUSHROOM SAUCE. Prepare from half to a whole pint of very small mushroom- buttons with great nicety, and throw them into as much sauce tournee; when they are tender add a few spoonsful of rich cream, give the whole a boil, and serve it. Either of these sauces may be sent to table with boiled poultry, breast of veal, or veal-cutlets : the sauce tournee should be thickened rather more than usual when it is to be used in this receipt. Mushrooms and sauce tournee each, \ to whole pint: stewed till tender. Cream, 4 to 8 tablespoonsful. BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE. Very small flaps, peeled and freed entirely from the fur, will answer for this sauce. Leave them ivhole, or quarter them, and stew them tender in some rich brown gravy; give a full season- ing of mace and cayenne, add thickening, and salt if needed, and a tablespoonful of good mushroom catsup. COMMON TOMATA SAUCE. Tomatas are so juicy when ripe, that they require but little liquid to reduce them to a proper consistency for sauce; and