SOUPS. 5 CHAP. I.] gentle fire, until it is equally coloured to a very pale brown, then drain it from the butter* and dry it on a soft cloth, or a sheet of paper placed before a clear fire, upon a dish, or on a sieve reversed. SIPPETS A LA HEINE. Having cut the bread as for common sippets, spread it on a dish, and pour over it a few spoonsful of thin cream, or of good milk; let it soak for an hour, then fry it in fresh butter of a delicate brown, drain, and serve the sippets hot. TO MAXE NOUIELES ; (An elegant substitute for Vermicelli.) Wet, with the yolks of four eggs, as much fine, dry, sifted flour as will make them into a firm but very smooth paste. Roll it out as thin as possible, and cut it into bands of about an inch and a quarter in width. Dust them lightly with flour, and place four of them one upon the other. Cut them obliquely in the finest possible strips; separate them with the point of a knife, and spread them on writing paper, so that they may dry a little before they are used. Drop them gradually into the boiling soup, and in ten minutes they will be done. Various other forms may be given to this paste at will. It may be divided into a sort of riband maccaroni; or stamped with small confectionary cutters into different shapes. VEGETABLE VERMICELLI. (Vegetables cut very fine for Soups.) Cut the carrots into inch-lengths, then pare them round and round in ribbons of equal thickness, till the inside is reached; next cut these ribands into straws, or very small strips; celery is prepared in the same way, and turnips also are first pared into ribands, then sliced into strips : these last require less boiling than the carrots, and attention must be paid to this, for if broken, the whole would have a bad appearance in soup. The safer plan is to boil each vegetable separately, till tolerably tender, in a little pale broth (in water if this be not at hand), to drain them well, and put them into the soup, which should be clear, only a few minutes before it is dished. For cutting them small, in other forms, the proper instruments will be found at the ironmonger’s.