584/ APPENDIX. mendation of these puddings is their being quite firm without any eggs: the yellow tint of the polenta itself gives them the appearance of containing many. POLENTA A L’lTALIENNE. Mix seven ounces of the polenta with one quart of cold milk, and stir them over a clear fire until they boil; continue to stir the mixture until it is as thick as it can be,—(from ten to twelve minutes will usually be sufficient), then proceed in all else by the receipt of page 423. Salt and cayenne must be added, as there, to the polenta at first. MUSH, OE PORRIDGE OF MAIZE-MEAL,* WHICH RESEMBLES THE SCOTTISH CROWDIE. The raw flavour of the maize is, we think, best overcome by mixing it with cold milk or water, and then stirring it over the fire until it has become thick from boiling. To half a pint of meal add about a saltspoonful of salt, and mix it gradually with rather more than a quart of liquid. Turn it into a saucepan, and stir it over a clear fire until it has boiled from ten to fifteen minutes; or, if this method be thought troublesome, mix the meal with part of the liquid, and pour it into the remainder when it boils. It is very pleasant in flavour. * Called also stir-about.— The importations of American maize-flour or meal have hitherto been very insufficient to supply the eager demand for it which has arisen in this country since public attention has been directed to it by the legis- lature as a cheap and nutritious article of diet. There is little doubt, however, that it will soon become common food throughout the kingdom; and we therefore much regret that our limits will not permit us to make known here the many uses to which we find it admirably adapted. But we are compelled to reserve, for a little work upon the subject which we have now in progress, all the remainder of our receipts for its preparation. The polenta, or Italian Indian-corn meal, differs, both in its quality and its nature, from the American, though it is derived from the same species of grain; but this in Italy is highly dried, when harvested, either by the action of the sun, or by artificial means. It assumes, in consequence, a fine yellow tint, and is so much hardened that it almost resembles flour-of-rice when ground. It is at present sold at sixpence the pound at the best Italian ware- houses (we have ourselves been supplied with it always extremely good by Mr. Cobbett of Pall Mall); but when its superior quality, and its genuineness also, are considered, its price will not appear so disproportionate to that of the Ameri- can meal as it would seem at first. We have had specimens of the latter from Liverpool, Manchester, and London. The best of the three samples by far was half oatmeal very coarsely prepared. The London packet had literally been “ made up” for sale with bean-flour and other matters, and produced, when used, an entirely different effect to the meal of Indian corn, and its flavour bore no resemblance to it whatever. We mention this, that our readers may see the desirableness of procuring the com itself, and having it ground into flour or meal at home. A small mill for the purpose might, we should suppose, be constructed without great expense.