DIAGNOSIS OF CONGENITAL SYPHILIS 8oi The characteristic and diagnostic eye-change iu late syphilis is interstitial keratitis. This usually appears just before puberty, affects one eye first, and then invariably becomes bilateral, whether the patient is treated with mercury or not. Opaque areas appear on the deep surface of the cornea, and fine blood-vessels which come from the conjunctiva and sclerotic run on and into its substance. The condition may last for months or years till sight is almost lost; but, however bad the case may be, there is always a wonderful improve- ment on giving mercury. Double interstitial keratitis is frequently associated with Hutchin- sonian teeth and nodes on the tibia'—tlie so-called syphilitic triad. Any of these eye lesions may appear first in adult life. Ears.—In infancy there may be a catarrh of the external audi- tory meatus and middle ear, but it is in nowise characteristic of syphilis. In the late form, usually after puberty, there occurs an insidious inflammation of tlie internal ear, wliicli in time leads to com])letc loss of heai-ing. Lymphatic glands. — In congenital syphilis tlie lymphatic glands may become enlarged, but there is never a general enlarge- ment all over the body, as is the case in acquired syphilis ; one group becomes enlarged, but not from any ascertainable cause. So rarely are the glands affected that enlargement makes one suspect acquired syphilis. Diagnosis.— The diagnosis of congenital syphilis is made too often. A rash on the buttocks seems to be regarded as diagnostic : it is more often due to a simple erythema than not. A macular rash on the face, and papiiles on the palms and soles, are, however, pathog- nomonic. It should not be forgotten" that "snuffles" is often due to a simple catarrh, and some flattening of the bridge of the nose is characteristic of all infants. Orchitis and pseudo-paralyses are most important signs, syphilis being the only cause in early life. Much weight cannot be laid on enlargement of the liver and spleen. Enlarge- ment of the epiphyses before the first year is diagnostic of syphilis. In a doubtful case an ophthalmoscopic examination should be made. In later life, Hutchinson's teeth, interstitial keratitis, and peri- ostitis of the tibia? are the most important diagnostic signs. A most valuable aid to diagnosis is a positive Wassermann reaction. Prognosis.—Infants born with manifestations of sypliilis usually die. Death is the rule in cases of pemphigus. Juvenile paralysis is almost invariably fatal. Children born healthy, but showing signs in early infancy, if submitted to appropriate treatment for a full period of two or three vears will almost certainly escape subsequent mani- festations altogether. Children who have late signs have usually been free in early life, and consequently have had no treatment. 2 Z