BACILLUS MALLEI 71 The protoplasm of the bacillus stains irregularly, parts being deeply stained while other parts are pale, thus giving an appearance of granules and vacuoles. In wet preparations it stains well with Czaplewski-fuchsin, or with a 0'2 j)er cent, solution of methylene blue. It is Gram-negative. The bacillus is aerobic, and a facultative anaerobe. It grows readily on all the ordinary media, better if 5 per cent, of glycerine be added, and characteristically upon the surface of potato. It prefers a slightly acid medium. In bouillon it produces uniform turbidity, and at the foot of the tube a grey-white sediment of a distinctly slimy character. Occa- sionally there may be a pellicle on the surface of the fluid which is thicker at the sides than in the centre. In old cultures the bouillon acquires a yellowish-brown colour, and becomes slimy and viscous. In gelatin there is a greyish discontinuous growth along the stab, most marked at the upper end, and on the surface a small semi-trans- parent disc of growth around the puncture. The medium is never liquefied. On the surface of agar there is formed a uniform, moist-looking, slimy, greyish streak, which later on assumes a yellowish tinge. On potato at the body temperature there appears an amber-coloured honey-like layer of growth, which gradually becomes darker and more opaque, passing through shades of fawn to assume in about a week a red-brown hue very similar to that of cuprous oxide. Immediately around the growth the potato itself exhibits a greenish-yellow colora- tion. Milk is coagulated in about a fortnight. The optimum temperature is about 37° C, and the limits of growth 20°-4.3° C. It is killed within ten minutes at a temperature of 55° C. When dried, the organism will live for from two to three weeks, and in cases may be found alive even after three months. In culture it retains its vitality for considerable periods at the room temjserature, and a glycerine-bouillon culture kept at a low temperature was found alive after four years. On potato it will usually die out within three or four months. It is very easily destroyed by antiseptics. Thus, corrosive sublimate in 1-5,000 solution kills it in about two minutes, and 5 per cent, carbolic acid in five minutes. The Bacillus viallei produces powerful toxins which are set fi'ce into the culture media, but also exist within the bodies of the micro- organisms. Various preparations of these poisonous substances are manufactured vmder the name of malle'in, either by the filtration of glycerine-bouillon cultures, or by heating the bacterial growth from the surface of potatoes in dilute glycerine or in water, and subsequently filtering off the bacteria, or simply in the form of glycerine-bouillon cultures sterilized by heating at 120° C.