CAUSATION OF TUMOURS 351 ing instance of a similar nature is afforded by the small skin-lined cysts or dermoids, which are most common in those situations in which the various parts that unite to form the face come into con- tact. In such situations it is supposed that a disjilacement of epi- blastic cells into the subjacent mesoblast takes place, and that from these displaced cells the dermoid tumour takes its origin. According to this view, the origin of certain tumours is supposed to be the result of the continued development of cells which have come to lie in the wrong place ; the tumour is, indeed, the result of a malformation. This explanation, however, fails to account for the growth of the tumour, especially when, as may be the case, the growth occurs comparatively late in life. The view that tumours, homologous as well as heterologous, owe their origin to cells retaining their embryonic type, and persisting as " rests " among the fully developed tissues, was enunciated and fully discussed by Cohnheim, and has met with very wide acceptance, although the actual demonstrable facts upon which the theory is based are few. Though it is usually ascribed to Cohnheim, Eyre of Rome has pointed out that a similar theory of the origin of tumours had previously been suggested by Durante, in 1874, in the following words : " The elements which have preserved embryonal anatomical characters in the adult organism, or which have acquired them through a deviation of the chemico-physiological activities, represent for me the generating elements of every neoplasm properly so-called, and especially of those which are malignant." Whether or not such a view of the origin of tumours has a general application, it may be accepted as more than probable that a con- genital tissue abnormality is a most important element. Some tumours, as, for instance, many angiomas, are themselves present at birth ; others undoubtedly originate from cells which are congenitally abnor- mal, at least in situation ; whilst a congenital defect, such as a pig- mented mole, may later in life be the starting-point of a malignant growth. The development of a malignant tumour in a congenitally malformed or misplaced part, such as a retained testicle, is another instance of interest in the same connexion. Our conception of the importance of the part played by injury and other accidental agents in the causation of tumours will vary according as we accept or reject the embryonic theory. In the one case an injury can be supposed only to act as the excitant which brings into activity the latent embryonic germs; in the other case we must suppose that traumatism or some other form of external irritant can so influence the normal tissue cells as to modify their mode of growth and determine their develop- ment into a tumour. Whichever view be correct, it is impossible to ignore the frequency with which a tumour, especially a malignant