REPAIR By J. M. BEATTIE, M.A., M.D. The processes concerned in the repair of wounds or injuries are clearly defined, and it therefore seems unnecessary to refer to the work, inter- esting though it is, which has led up to the views now generally accepted. No definite line can be drawn between the processes of inflamma- tion and those of repair. The destructive and the proliferative changes, which are characteristic of all inflammatory reactions, may go on side by side, and in any given case the one or the other may predominate ; but the term repair, in its general acceptation, is confined to that series of reactions in which the proliferative changes are in excess, and by which the injured tissues are restored to a condition more or less approximating the normal. These proliferative changes are best studied in the healing of a wound of the skin and subcutaneous tissues ; but it should be clearly understood that wherever they occur the same series of reactions is seen, though the intensity of these may vary in individual cases. In some the repair may be direct, and result from the proliferation of the fixed connective-tissue cells of the part—most of the reactive phenomena of inflammation being either entirely absent or present only in a minor degree. Usually, however, the injmy to the tissues will have caused some degree of reaction, and, as a result, there will be dilatation of vessels, leucocyte emigration, transudation of lymph, etc., with the consequent deposit in the injured area of fibrin and other inflammatory products. In addition, there will be destruction of the tissues, partly from the injury itself and partly from the reactive phenomena. This damaged tissue and these inflammatory products must be removed or absorbed before the healing process can be effective. Again, the situation in which the injury occurs will have some effect on the character of the reparative changes. Thus, the changes seen in the repair of an injury of bone will differ from those which occur in the repair of an injury of the skin and subcutaneous tissues, but it cannot be too strongly emphasized that these differences are dependent i-i7