VACCINE TREATMENT cognizance of the surgeon, arranged under the headings of the infecting organism. Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, albus, and citreus. —Of the infections due to eitlier of these organisms, suppuration is usually the main manifestation of the pathogenetic activity of the cocci ; but the lesions that the surgeon may desire to treat by vaccines include not only pustular acne, furunculosis, boils and abscesses, but also the more diffuse suppuration of osteo-myelitis, and staphylococcic septicpemia. In either of these lesions, the albus, citreus, or aureus staphylococcus may be present alone or in com- bination ; the necessity for accurate diagnosis therefore is obvious, for, contrary to some recorded opinion,s, a vaccine of one of these staphylococci is quite useless for treatment of an infection due to either of the others. Polyvalent stock vaccines of the S. aureus appear to be fairly effective in localized infections, but are of little value wlien the infection has become generalized. Stock vaccines of the S. albus are of considerably less value, and whenever possible should not be allowed to replace autogenous vaccines. Neglect of this point has no doubt led to many of the failures in the treatment of pustular acne—an infection frequently due to the S. albus—stock vaccines of the S. albus, or even of the S. aureus, having been used in place of an autogenous vaccine. For the preparation of autogenous staphylococcic vaccines the organism should be grown upon nutrient agar, of + 10 reaction, for twenty-four hours, at a temperature of 37" C. Emulsion should be killed by exposure in the water bath to a temperature of 60° C. for one hour. The size of dose usually employed varies with tlie severity of the infection. A staphylococcic septic;emia would not. at any rate in the early stages, receive a larger dose than 10 millions, while the subacute and chronic suppurations due to these organisms will usually stand an initial dose of TO millions, rising gradually to a dose of 250 millions or even 500 millions. The interval between the smaller doses may be anything from three to seven or eight days. The interval between doses of, say, 250 millions is usually 12-14 days. The size of the dose employed is also influenced to some extent by the result it is desired to obtain. Given an immature boil, in which it is hoped to induce resolution, one or two small doses of, say, 10 millions, with 3 or 4 days between them, will very often secure this result. If, however, there is a large indurated area, such as is so frequently met with on the back of the neck, in which it is desired to promote early and free suppuration with a view to incision, then a single large dose of 100 millions to 250 millions will accelerate the process.