MILITARY SURGERY 282 may also be used, \vitli starched or plaster bandages; Tight appli- cation of splints or bandages is to be avoided, especially in the upper limb. In the fixed hospitals the usual treatment of compound fractures is to be carried out. For fractures of the femur Hodgen's splint is decidedly the best. In cases that remain aseptic, union is slow and the amount of callus large. Septic gunshot fractures require operation for the removal of all small and completely detached frag- ments, which will necrose if left and seriously retard recovery. Free drainage is also essential. Aseptic gunshot fractures do not require any operative fixation of the fragments by screwing or wiring, unless union should fail. Amputation is comparatively seldom necessary, and only when it is obviously impossible to save the limb, as in extensive shell injuries. Amputation may be required in suppurating cases if the jjatient is in danger from septic absorption. Wounds of joints from rifle bullets at medium or long ranges are generally clean perforations, and, as the skin apertures are small, infection can usually be prevented and recovery with good movement is the rule. At short ranges the ends of the bones are often com- minuted. As a rule, large bullets and pieces of shell break up the articular ends and make large external wounds, infection of wliich is very likely to occur. In small and complex joints, such as the elbow or ankle, comminution of the bones may be caused by rifle bullets at any range. A bullet may pierce the capsule of a joint without touching bone, but this is rare except in the knee. Some- times serous effusion is seen in an unwounded joint as the result of a bullet wound of the limb in the neighbourhood of the joint. This is the result of vibratory concussion, and is well marked in the knee with fractures of the femur. The most constant symptom of wound of a joint is hsemarthrosis ; the blood becomes absorbed rather slowly. Escape of synovial fluid is not likely to occur unless the external wounds are large. The treatment of wounded joints consists of aseptic occlusion of the external wounds and fixation of the joint. As soon as the external wounds have healed, massage and movement should be begun and persevered with. Aspiration may be done if absorption of the blood in the joint is very slow, but not before the woimds have healed, as there is a possibility of aspirating infective material into the joint through the wounds. Septic arthritis following a wound requires early and free incisions and free drainage, but in many cases the limb will have to be sacrificed ; if it is saved, a stiff joint is to be expected, though exceptionally movement is regained. In septic wounds with comminution all loose fragments of bone should be removed. Excision of a wounded joint is seldom necessary, except to restore movement in an ankylosed joint after the original wound has healed. Bullets