SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 12 require from the decomposition products of their food materials. These latter are spoken of either as " facultative anaerobes" or " facultative aerobes," and among them are found the greater number of pathogenetic forms. (b) Relation to temperature.—Bacterial growth extends over a wide range of temperature, but in the case of each variety there are definite limits between which alone multiplication can take place, and for each there is an optimum temperature most favourable to its growth. In general the upper limit of bacterial growth is about 40° to 45° C, though there are bacteria, the so-called " thermophilic " forms, which only begin to grow above this temperature and find their optimum between 60° and 70° C. At the other end of the scale the lower limit is found at about 12°^ to 14° C, but forms exist which will develop even at 9° C, and find their optimum about 12° C. (psycrophilic forms). In almost all bacteria the effect of cold is merely to arrest development without producing permanent injury. Even a delicate organism Hke the cholera vibrio recovers perfectly after being cooled to —32° C, and a number of bacteria have been subjected to a temperature below - 200° C. without suffering any apparent injury. The optimum temperature may be found about 20°-28° C, as in the case of putrefactive bacteria, and very many other saprophytic forms; or about 37°-39° C. as in the case more particularly of the pathogenetic forms which attack warm-blooded animals and man. The efltect of high temperatures upon bacterial life is rapidly destruc- tive, but its rate of action is to a great extent dependent on the accom- panying conditions. It varies with the presence or absence of moisture in the bacterial surroundings, as well as with the manner in which heat is apjilied—whether in the form of hot air, boiling, or steam. Moreover, the degree of heat required to destroy bacterial life varies very greatly not only in the case of different micro-organisms, but, especially among spore-forming varieties, with the presence or absence of spores. Short of actual destruction of the bacteria, a raised tem- perature inhibits growth, and frequently modifies the character and the activity of the organisms concerned ; as, for example, by causing- loss of virulence in pathogenetic forms, loss of the pigment-forming power in pigmented organisms, and similar changes. The action of hot air is considerably less rapid and less penetrating than that of moist heat, bacteria when dry withstanding a higher degree of heat, and a longer application of it, than when in a moist condition. Thus, while the sjjores of B. anthracis are destroyed in a few minutes by boiling, they will resist the action of hot air at a tem- perature of 140° C. for several hours. Experience shows that where hot air is employed it must have a temperature of 150°-160° C.,' and