461 MALIGNANT GROWTHS is frequently observed in cases of malignant disease occurring within the area drained by the portal vein, and thus in abdominal carcinoma it is very common to find the liver, with perhaps the lymphatic glands corresponding to the site of the primary growth, to be the only seat of secondary deposits. It has already been pointed out that in the zone of infiltration around a malignant growth, especially the carcinomas, the tumour cells can be demonstrated in the lymph-vessels, by means of which they readily reach the nearest set of lymphatic glands and occasion the enlargement which is so frequently the first evidence of metastasis. In the early stages the invasion of a lymj^hatic gland is usually evidenced by nodules of growth in the sinuses of the cortex, but later the disease spreads to the medullary portion, and eventually the gland is replaced by a uniform mass of growth. From the gland first affected the disease tends to spread to others until many adjacent sets become involved. In this way the natural course of the lymph-stream must be seriously obstructed, and, in consequence, the flow from the site in which the primary growth is situated may be diverted into neigh- boiiring lymphatic areas, producing, according to some observers, a retrograde embolism of cancer cells and an invasion of the lymphatic glands of other regions. In dealing with the dissemination of malignant disease by the lymphatic system it is necessary to refer to the important part played by the thoracic duct. Since Weigert reported a case in which the duct was completely blocked by a deposit of carcinoma secondary to a growth in the rectum, many cases have been recorded in which a similar condition was present, or in which a secondary deposit of growth in the hanphatic glands above the left clavicle has been associated with deposits of growth in the duct. Sampson Handley, by observations made chiefly in connexion with carcinoma of the breast and melanotic sarcoma of the skin, strongly supports the view that many of the phenomena of metastasis usually assigned to dissemination by way of the blood-stream are in reality due to extension along lymphatic vessels. According to him, the tumour cells are not carried merely in the direction of the lymph-stream, but sjDread in ever-increasing circles by active growi^h along the lymphatic vessels (lymphatic permeation) from the primary tumour. In this way it is supposed that even distant parts may be reached and secondary deposits produced, whilst the direct connexion of the latter with the primary growth is interrupted by the degeneration of the cancerous lymphatics as the result of an inflammatory fibrosis which occurs around them. Handley has applied this tlieory of direct lymphatic permeation to explain some of the phenomena of abdominal metastasis in cases of mammary carcinoma, and supposes