CONGENITAL SYPHILIS cedematous epithelial cells. The separation of the rete Malpighii from the stratum corneum by a sero-purulent exudate is said to be characteristic of the syphilitic pemphigus. Hochsinger states that this applies only to those cases in which the pemphigus is present at birth, and that in those in which it appears later the rete Malpighii is separated from the papilte, often leaving the interpapillary processes behind. The preference which the lesions show for the palms and soles is ascribed by Hochsinger to the early development of the glands in these regions. In the bullae of pemphigus, spirochsetes have been found, and also in the other cutaneous lesions. Hochsinger made histological investigations of the rhagades around the mouth. The cellular infiltration in the cerium, both around the vessels and the glands (mucous membrane), was so marked as to press upon and thin out the epidermis. Movements of the mouth caused the thin epidermis to give way, with consequent ulceration and cicatrization. Bones.—Bone affections in congenital syphilis are usually late signs ; but changes in utero do occur, e.g. gummata resulting in spon- taneous fractures. Further, there is a characteristic bone lesion of ■early syphilis, found often at birth, called by its discoverer, Wegner, osteo-chondritis syphilitica. This is, in the main, an epiphysial disease, which affects the long bones and ribs, and is found in almost every casj of congenital syphihs, although it may not be sufficiently pronounced to be diagnosed during Ufe. Post-mortem, it is perhaps the most valuable sign in a doubtful case. It is frequently present at birth, but cannot, as a rule, be diagnosed by external signs until some months later. It reaches its acme at the age when rickets is common, making a differential diagnosis extremely difficult. The incidence of this condition is as follows : it is most marked in the lower epi- physis of the femur ; next, in the lower epiphyses of the tibia, ulna, and radius, upper epiphyses of the tibia, femur, and fibula; and least in the lower end of the humerus. The increased growth leads to an enlargement of the epiphysis ; as a sequel the bone involved may be shortened or lengthened, or the epiphysis may be separated from the diaphysis. The separated epiphysis usually unites again with the shaft, and no permanent disfigurement ensues. Separation of an epiphysis gives rise to a chain of symptoms to which the term pseudo-paralysis is frequently applied. In such a case, if the affected limb be raised and dropped, it falls as if para- lysed ; spontaneous movements are impossible, but muscular action persists ; pressure and movement are painful. According to Schmidt, the pathological changes which result in