MYELOMA 401 glands or metastases. It is midoubtedly true that in many forms of rapidly growing sarcoma multinucleated giant-cells are present, but this feature alone does not justify the inclusion of such tumours with the myelomas. The true myeloma presents macroscopic and histological characters which are quite characteristic, and it may safely be concluded that giant-celled tumours exhibiting evidences of malignancy are sarcomas and not myelomas. The same is true of certain giant-celled tumours occasionally met with in other situations than the bones. Clinical features—Myelomas are met with exclusively in the bones, and are much more common in the loiig bones than elsewhere, beginning usually in the interior of the shaft, close to the epiphysis. As the tumour grows it gradually expands the bone and extends into the epiphysis, often up to the articular cartilage, which, however, even in the later stages of the disease when great enlargement of the articular extremity has resulted, almost invariably remains intact, and prevents the tumour from reaching the joint cavity (Fig. 68). As the bone becomes expanded it usually becomes progressively thinned, and at a certain stage the bony layer surrounding the tumour may at parts give the peculiar sensation known as " eggshell-crackling " under the pressure of the finger. At a still later stage the bony shell becomes entirely absorbed at one or more spots, and the tumom- pro- jects from the interior of the bone, and can be felt as a softer lobe on the surface of the otherwise bony enlargement. On account of the great vascularity of the tumour, pulsation can often be detected at any spot at which the bony envelope of the growth is wanting, and is a physical sign of great value in the differential diagnosis. As already mentioned, the substance of a myeloma may be very extensively broken down by haemorrhage. In some cases this occurs to such an extent that the whole tumour is transformed into a mere blood cyst of the bone, the true nature of which can only be demon- strated by microscopic examination of the thin layer of soft tissue which usually lines the cavity in the bone. In the case from which the accompanying drawing (Fig. 69) was made, the superficial part of the cyst which projected from the posterior surface of the upper extremity of the tibia formed an elastic swelling in the popliteal space. Myeloma is most common in the lower limb, especially in the upper extremity of the tibia ; it is not uncommon in the lower extremity of the femur, and has also been met with in the fibula, especially the upper end, and in the patella. In the upper limb the most common site is the upper extremity of the humerus ; in the forearm bones the lower extremities are more often affected than the upper ; in the clavicle, myeloma of the sternal end is less rare than of the acromial end.