848 GONORRHCEA Later, massage and gentle pressure to the joint by means of strapping or bandaging are useful in assisting the complete absorption of the fluid and in preventing stiffness. Should suppuration take place the joint must be freely opened and drained. In many cases, however, better results are obtained by the use of Bier's hypersemic treatment (p. 191), with or without the administration of a gonococcal vaccine, as regards the relief of pain, reduction of the inflammation, and the prevention of the joint stiffness. The urethritis should be treated according to its condition at the time, special care being taken to avoid provoking an exacerbation by heroic measures. ENDOCARDITIS Next to the joints, the part of the body most frequently affected by metastatic infection is the heart. Symptomatically there is little to distinguish such cases of endo- or pericarditis from a like affection due to other septic organisms, and the true origin of the inflammation can only be inferred from its onset during an attack of urethritis. The accuracy of this diagnosis can naturally only be ascertained by a bacteriological examination after death. It is here unnecessary to discuss the subject at greater length. Recent investigations have shown that metastatic deposits of gono- cocci occur far more frequently than has hitherto been supposed in other parts of the body, giving rise to various forms of inflammation, such as pleurisy, peritonitis, meningitis, iritis, periostitis, osteo- myelitis, cellulitis, etc. Such inflammations present no charadteristic symptoms, and their true origin can only be traced by careful bacteriological examination. Lastly, there are certain nerve lesions attributable to the gono- coccus, such as myelitis and peripheral neuritis. It is at present uncertain how far these are due to metastatic infection or to the circulation of the toxin in the blood. PROOF OF THE CURE OF GONORRHCEA: ITS BEARING ON MARRIAGE One of the difficulties in the treatment of this disease arises from the fact that the patient is very apt to regard himself as restored long before a cure has been effected. While the disease is in the acute or subacute stage there is little likelihood of either doctor or patient • regarding it as cured. It is in the terminal stage alone that the difficulty of deciding arises. Here the difficulty may be very great, and the decision arrived at may be of much moment to the patient. It may involve not merely the question as to whether it is necessary for him