ETIOLOGY OF SUPPURATION 167 Anatomical sites.—Suppuration may occur in pre-existing cavities, such as tlie pleural, pericardial, peritoneal, meningeal, synovial and bursal cavities ; in the bony sinuses of the nasal and aural regions ; and on mucous surfaces. It may be a process superimposed upon other morbid conditions, e.g. biliary, renal, and vesical calculi, simple and malignant tumours and cysts. In such circumstances it must be looked upon as a complication of these conditions, though in some of them it is often of more imj^ortance than the pathological condition which it complicates. Suppuration may also complicate an " ulcer," or, by inducing gangrene of the parts which cover subjacent suppuration, may be a direct cause of an ulcer. By preventing union of a part by first intention, the subsequent ulcer would be caused directly by the process of suppuration. Etiology.—Suppuration can occur only as a result of an external agent accidentally or experimentally introduced into the tissues of the living being. At present there is no evidence to prove definitely that alterations in the metabolism of cells or any products of autolysis can induce suppuration. The excitant may be living or lifeless. In order to recognize a possibility the lifeless excitants of suppuration must be alluded to; but the reader must recognize that it is the living excitants only . with which he will have to deal when he meets with sup- puration in ordinary clinical work. Prominent among the lifeless excitants of suppuration are micro-organisms previously killed by low temperatures, products of micro-organisms, croton oil, pyrogallic acid, cantliarides, carbolic acid, turjientine, and abrin. None of these agents can multiply in the body, but they may be carried from one part to another by the blood- or lymph-stream. Since the injection of serum has come into constant use it may be well to mention arthus phenomenon," one manifestation of which may be the development of an aseptic abscess in a guinea-pig which has been injected frequently with normal horse-serum. The chief causes of suppuration induced by living excitants are micro-organisms, of which the most prominent will now be mentioned. Micro-organisms which induce acute suppuration:— Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. S. pyogenes albus. S. pyogenes citreus. Streptococcus pyogcfies. Pneumococcus. Gonococcus. Micrococcus catarrhalis. Bacillus coU communis. B. pyocyaneus. B. mallei. B. typhosus. B. pestis. Ducrey's bacillus of soft sore. Meningococcus. B. influenzce. M. tetrageyms. Pneumo-bacillus. The staphylococci and a mixed infection of staphylococci and streptococci are the commonest causes of acute suppuration in adults ; these and pneumococci are commonest in children. In the skin and