REPAIR l62 Fleming, who supports tliis peripheral theory, maintains, how- ever, that, in addition, new axis cylinders are formed, at the central end of the divided nerve, from the old axis cylinders. That the central ends of the old axis cylinders swell and give off a number of much finer fibres seems to us definitely proved. These extend through the cells which line and occupy the sheath of Schwann, and apparently joui either with the old fibres, if these are not too far distant, or with the new fibres which have been formed from the neuroblasts as described above. Divided nerves—e.g. those occur- ring in amputations—may at their ends show some proliferation of the fibres, but the thickenings which occur so frequently on them—the so-called neuromas—are usually masses of granulation tissue entangling the nerve fibres. For complete restoration of the physiological function of a divided nerve, at least three or four months will be required. Sensation is restored before the power of movement of the muscles is affected. This is probably in part due to the fact that the function of the muscle which has been lost through the degenerative changes follow- ing the nerve injury takes some time to return even after the nerve healing is complete. REPAIR OF WOUNDS IN THE HOLLOW VISCERA Wounds of the stomach and intestine are frequently com- plicated by escape of the contents into the peritoneal cavity and the production of a localized or a wide-spreading peritonitis. If, how- ever, there is no escape of the contents, and especially if the peritoneal surfaces become inverted and opposed to one another—as in suturing in operations on the intestinal tract—^rapid union takes place, and in a few hours there may be definite adhesion between the serous surfaces. Microscopical examination shows that this " gluing together" is brought about by fibrin and leucocytes which have accumulated as a thin layer between the apposed surfaces. The endothelial cells of the peritoneal covering swell and may become oval or cylin- drical in form. Organization of the fibrinous layer takes place, and the granulation tissue formed becomes converted into a fibrous-tissue scar. The endothelial covering is restored by a growth from the pre- existing endothelial cells. On microscopical examination some mitosis of the muscle fibres is usually seen, but formation of new muscle fibres takes place, if at all, only to a very slight extent. Restoration of the mucous membrane is brought about from growth at the margins of the wound—even the glands may be completely restored. If the wounds are very extensive there may be a considerable