BACILLUS DIPHTHERIyE 75 three or four days. The hair falls off, and a large area of necrosis may be produced. The ulcer which results from the separation of the dead material may gradually heal up, and the animal then apparently recovers. But in a number of cases paralytic symptoms manifest themselves from about the sixteenth to the twenty-fourth day, or €ven later. The paralysis begins in the hind limbs, and spreads upwards, leading to the death of the animal in many instances. If living cultures of the diphtheria bacillus be inoculated into guinea-pigs, the effects produced are very similar to those which follow the injection of the bacterium-free toxin. The bacilli themselves are, with quite rare exceptions, only found at the site of inoculation, and even here they begin to decrease in number after a few days. In man the bacilli are present in great numbers in the false membrane of diphtheritic lesions in the pharynx, or wherever they are situated. But their discovery in the circulation and the internal organs is extremely rare. It is important to remember that quite virulent organisms may long remain in the throat after complete recovery from the disease, and are not infi'equently present in the throats of healthy persons. This disease, like tetanus, is a toxaemia, and can be combated by the use of antitoxin. Antitoxic serums are produced by the systematic and repeated injection into the horse of graduated doses of diphtheria toxin. The antitoxin was originally standardized by determining the amount which would protect a guinea-pig of 250 grm. weight against an amount of toxin corresponding to 100 lethal doses, and this amount was taken as the unit of antitoxin. In practice it is now usual to standardize ail antidiphtheritic serums by comparison with a standard serum prepared by Ehrlich. As a rule the best serum contains about 400 to 800 antitoxin units per cubic centimetre. In using it as a therapeutic agent in human diphtheria, not less than 4,000 miits should be administered in a single dose. In severe cases it may be necessary to give several times this amount, and the dose must be repeated at frequent intervals until some definite improvement begins to take place. There is still a tendency, as in the case of tetanus antitoxin, to administer the remedy in insufficient amounts. This statement is not intended to imply that antitoxic serum can be given with safety in unlimited quantities, but rather to emphasize the fact that at present the practical danger appears to lie in the opposite direction. As a prophylactic agent during epidemics of diphtheria a single dose of about 2,000 units is appropriate. Statistics show that where this method of protection has been extensively employed among school children, both the incidence and the severity of the disease are greatly reduced.