909 FILARIASIS infected patients. In the mosquito the embryos undergo several changes, and pass from the stomach to the thoracic muscles and prothorax, and filially into the proboscis ; thence they are injected into a new host, and reach the lymphatic system, where they become sexually mature ; impregnation of the female occurs, and, in the end, ova and their contained embryos are deposited in the lymph. In due time the embryos, still contained in the stretched-out egg capsule which forms the sheath of the embryo, pass through the lymphatic glands eti route, and enter the circulation either by way of the thoracic duct and left subclavian vein, or by tlie lymphatics of the upper part of the body. Symptoms and pathological effects of filariasls.— Althougli both adult worms and embryos are often present in large numbers without producing ill effects, they frequently cause severe consequences owing to tlie obstruction to lymph circulation by the parent worms and the ova. The lymph is dammed back and its pressure raised ; this, in time, leads to marked dilatation and vari- cosity of the lymphatics, with lymphatic oedema or lympliorrhoea in the affected area. Tlie obstruction may be complete from the first, as when a mass of worms or ova becomes impacted in the lumen of a lymphatic vessel; or it may be partial at first, but gradually become more complete, from inflammation and consequent thickening of the coats of the lymphatic, owing to the irritation by the worms or ova within it. The ultimate effects in any case will depend upon the efficiency of the collateral circulation. Thus, if the thoracic duct itself become blocked, the chyle can only reach the circulation by passing backwards, by way of the abdominal and pelvic lymphatics, to tlie lymphatics of the groin and scrotum, and on by those of the abdominal wall, chest, and neck, into the right main lymphatic trunk to the subclavian vein. The whole of tlus tract of lymphatic vessels and the thoracic duct itself up to the actual obstruction may become hypertrophied, varicose, and greatly distended with chyle, which may leak from the vessels on the slightest injury, or may even exude without any breach of surface. The conditions produced, therefore, depend upon the position of the block in the lymphatic system, the degree of obstruction, and the state of the collateral channels. Pos- sibly some of the symptoms may be ascribed to ova obstructing the circulation through the lymphatic glands. F. nocturna is seldom found in the blood in cases of well-developed filariasis, and least of all in elephantiasis. This is due either to the death of the parent worms (which, by their irritation, may sometimes set up abscesses or lymphangitis) or to the obstruction in the lymphatic area becoming so complete that the embryos cannot pass into the general circulation.