STREPTOTHRIX MADURyE 87 Mycetoma (Streptothrix madurae, madura foot).— Madura disease is somewhat closely allied to actinomycosis both in the general characters of its naked-eye appearance and in the presence of the fungus in the form of visible granules in the pus and degenerated tissues of the lesions. The pathological changes which occur are due to an organism met with in two varieties, the one producing yellowish granules, the other black ones. The form producing yellow granules is a streptothrix ; the black variety is said by J. H. Wright to be a hyphomycete, and is a good deal rarer than the yellow form. Mixed infection with the two varieties may be met with. In the pale (yellow) variety the granules exhibit on examination a mycelial network similar to that observed in actinom v'cosis, and may present some degree of clubbing at the ends of the threads. The organism has been grown on gelatin and on agar, and is aerobic. It forms rounded and elevated but flattened yellow colonies, which upon agar may assume a reddish tinge. It does not liquefy gelatin. It grows more freely than the actinomyces, and can be cultivated down to 6° or 8° C. ; its optimum is about 37° C. It is Gram-positive. The black variety grows well on ordinary media, forming a thick mycelial network upon which black granules may ajspear as the culture gets old. It is Gram-positive. In the case of both varieties, animal inoculation has given negative results. Spirochgete pallida (Treponema pallidum). — This organism (Plate 9, Fig. 4) was discovered in 19U5 by Scliaudinn in the mucous patches in a case of secondary syphilis. It differs from other spiroch?etes, which are normally present in the mouth and about the external openings of the genital organs, in being much thinner and extremely pallid and translucent. It is only seen with difficulty in unstained preparations unless a " dark-ground "' illumination be em- ployed, since its refractive index is apparently almost identical with that of the material in wliich it is found. Schaudinn and Hoffmann (1905), continuing the investigation of the organism, proved its invariable presence both in the primary lesion of syphilis and in its secondary eruptions. And shortly afterwards it was found both in the blood and in the internal organs in secondary syphilis as well as in the tertiary lesions, and also in cases of the congenital affection. A further evidence of the specificity of the organism was afforded by the experiments of Metchnikoff and others on the production of syphilis by the inoculation of syphilitic material in anthroj^oid apes. In these cases the spirochsete was always found to be present in the lesions wliich resulted fi-om the inoculations. Although it has not hitherto been possible to cultivate the spiro-