742 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS condiments forbidden, and carious and tartar-laden teeth attended to by a dentist. Of course, specific treatment is necessary. Calomel injections or salvarsan are especially beneficial, and potassium iodide is essential. Cracks and fissures should be well dried and then painted with a solution of either chromic acid (gr. x to §1) or of perhydrol or peroxide of hydrogen. When there is much inflam- mation of the parts the following application may be made to the ulcers :—■ lodi . Potassii iodidi Tinct. opii . 01. menth. pii\ Glycerinum . Solve et misce. gr. 11. gr. XX. n\v. ITlv. ad 5i. The liver.—Of all the abdominal viscera the liver is the most frequently attacked by tertiary sy^jhilis, the conditions produced being : (1) amyloid degeneration, (2) perihepatitis, and (3) hepatitis, either diffuse or gummatous. In perihepatitis there is thickening of the capsule, with adhesions to surrounding parts. In hepatitis there is great increase in the connective tissue, accompanied by shrinking and the formation of fibrous bands ; by the contraction of these bands the liver becomes lobulated and nodular on the surface, so that a " ploughed-up " appearance is caused. Gummata are frequently found in the liver, and consist of a central zone of yellow matter, a middle zone of fibrous tissue, and an outer one of dense hepatic tissue. The yellow matter in the central zone is often absorbed, and replaced by a mass of fibrous tissue, which causes puckering of the surface of the organ. Symptoms.-—The liver may be enlarged, irregular, and nodular. Pain in the hepatic region is common, and may be sharp or dull and persistent. In perihepatitis the pain may be very severe. As a result of pressure, ascites may occur. Marasmus is often present, accompanied by albuminuria and persistent jaundice. On the whole, the symptoms in tertiary syphilis of the liver are mild and not at all distinct, so that the disease may be entirely overlooked. The stomach and the rectum.—Tertiary affections of the stomach are very rare, and there are no regular symptoms which are pathognomonic of them. When they do occur they consist of gummatous infiltration of the walls. The rectum may be attacked in tertiary syphilis in three ways : by ulceration, by gumma formation, or by the development and contraction of fibrous tissue. All three varieties may lead to stric- ture of the gut. Indurating oedema complicates all three ; the process extends to and surrounds the anus : the walls of the rectum become