200 SUPPURATION tuberculous abscess wall where excision is impracticable, it would be well first to scrape with a sharp spoon, and then to apply pure carbolic acid or iodine to the raw surface with the idea of preventing local and general infection. When a tuberculous abscess is large, as in the case of psoas abscess, I deem it safer to open it and to wash it out with a hot solution of perchloride of mercury (1-10,000) to remove dead tissue, and then to sew up the incision with interrupted silkworm-gut stitches. Tuber- culous pus may or may not reaccumulate in these circumstances ; directly reaccumulation does occur, the operation should be repeated as often as necessary; by this means the cavity of the tuberculous abscess becomes smaller each time, and eventually may be cured per- manently. A sinus may form and remain discharging a slight amount of sero-purulent fluid for from months to years, and will cease only when the spinal trouble has healed. Acting upon these principles, I have treated 23 tuberculous psoas abscesses associated with disease of the spinal column. In 3 cases no reaccumulation occurred ; in 7 reaccumulation took place three or four times and afterwards remained healed. In 5 cases sinuses resulted which remained discharging. The histories of the remaining 8 cases cannot be procured. The results are certainly better than those which I obtained by a routine treatment of opening, scraping with a sharp spoon, washing out, and draining. All the modes of treatment should be combined with rest, splints, spinal carriage, etc. A more considerable degree of rest should be given to tuberculous lymphatic-gland cases than is the usual practice, and cases of this kind do best when the parts affected are placed in a state of physiological rest. Constitutional treatment should consist of all the well-known systems of building up the patient's strength : fresh air, the adminis- tration of cod-liver oil, iodide of iron, the extract pressed from raw meat, absence of fatigue, and prevention, as far as possible, of collateral extra-infective processes such as colds, whooping-cough, measles, and decayed teeth. Vaccine and serunn treatment.—It may be said at once that there is no serum yet obtained which has value in the treatment or prevention of tuberculosis. The only question at present is whether vaccine treatment is of supreme, or of little or no value. There can b3 no doubt that the evidence in favour of vaccine treatment is, in some cases, apparently overwhelming; but in the majority of cases it is as disappointing to the patient as it is to the surgeon. The great lesson to be enforced, so far as this treatment has gone, is that the surgeon must not omit to employ any of the many valuable aids he possessed before it became the vogue. Should the treatment be used at all, its greatest advocates admit that it must be associated