78 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY matter which becomes diffused into the surrounding medium, but imder anaerobic conditions the growth remains completely colourless. The bacillus grows readily on all the ordinary media producing pigment. In bouillon it produces a surface pellicle and marked tur- bidity of the medium, with a dense and more or less tenacious deposit at the foot of the tube. The fluid becomes greenish and distinctly fluorescent. In gelatin-stab a cone of liquefaction is produced containing turbid growth at the apex of the cone, and the surrounding medium assumes a greenish tinge. On agar there appears a fairly abundant, slimy, somewhat wrinkled, greyish layer of growth accompanied by pigmentation (green), and marked fluorescence of the medium. Milk is coagulated in the course of several days, and subsequently the coagulum is again liquefied. On potato the bacillus produces a copious, shmy, slightly oUve- tinted brown layer, and might readily be mistaken on this medium for the Bacillus mallei. The organism is common as a saprophyte upon the skin, in the mouth, and in the intestinal tract. It has very little importance as regards pathogenetic action in the human subject, though in am'mals (especially in rabbits) it produces suppuration when inoculated ex- perimentally, and in sufficient doses leads to the development of a spreading ha;morrhagic oedema, and a condition of general septicaemia. In pre-antiseptic days it was commonly met with as a secondary infection in suppurating wounds, causing the pus and even the bandages and dressings to assume a blue-green colour. Bacillus typhosus (Eberth-Gaffky bacillus). — The Bacillus typhosus (Plate 7) was observed by Eberth in 1880, in the spleen and in the intestinal lesions in cases of typhoid fever. Shortly after- wards its presence was demonstrated in stained sections by Koch. It was isolated in pure culture by Gafiky in 1884. It is of surgical interest as an occasional cause of abscesses occurring in the course of typhoid fever or during convalescence. It somewhat closely resembles the Bacillus coli, the chief points of difference being the following : It is more rapidly motile, and has much longer and more numerous flagella (10-12), which are peri- trichate. It grows rather less freely on all media, and its cultures are less dense, less granular, and more translucent than those of the Bacillus coli. On the surface of potato it forms only a very delicate colourless film. In stab- or shake-cultures it never produces any gas. Another member of the same group, the Bacillus paratypJiosus, is morphologically indistinguishable from the Bacillus typJiosus, and pro- duces similar, though usually somewhat milder, pathological conditions.