152 REPAIR nucleus and a cytoplasm containing metachromatic granules, are frequently seen, especially in the later stages of granulation-tissue formation. These cells, which were first described by Ranvier, are called clasmatocytes, and some authors regard the masi cells of Ehrlich as belonging to this class. Giant cells.—Reference has already been made to the presence of tliese cells in granulation tissue (p. 150). Fibroblasts.—These are the most important cells in granula- tion tissue, and are those finally concerned in the healing process, for from them the fibrous tissue is formed. They are, as has already been stated, derived mainly by proliferative changes from the pre- existing connective-tissue cells of the part, though there is evi- dence that some of them take origin from the lymphocyte-like and other mononucleated cells. The fibroblasts, at first, are rounded or oval cells with a relatively large vesicular nucleus, but become elongated, spindle-shaped, or even stellate in appearance. They show fine fibrillcTe projecting not only from their ends, but also passing directly through the substance of the cell-body. These fibrillse gradually increase in size and number until they almost completely replace the cell protoplasm, and eventually the cell is represented by a nucleus, very much reduced in size, and a very small quantity of cytoplasm, the whole being surrounded by a bundle of fibrils (Plate 22, Fig. 2). There are still differences of opinion as to whether these fine fibrils of white connective tissue are formed by a transformation in the cell protoplasm, or whether they are formed from the intercellular substance in direct apposition to the cell. The fibrils can be seen passing directly through the cells, and this seems to suggest formation from the cell protoplasm. There is, however, considerable evidence that the inter- cellular substance, at any rate, shares in the process. The fibrils arrange themselves more or less regularly in parallel lines, become grouped into bundles, and so constitute the white connective-tissue fibres. HEALING IN SPECIAL TISSUES Epithelial cells.—The epithelial cells near the edges of the wound at first undergo degenerative changes, but in from ten to twelve hours proliferative changes are also seen. The cells become swollen, the chromatin of the nucleus becomes aggregated into a some- what denser mass, and mitotic figures are found. New epithelial cells are formed, and these grow in layers parallel to the surface of the wound, gradually extending over the surface of the injured area. Many of these cells in the earlier stages of the healing process become cede-