90S DISEASES DUE TO ANIMAL PARASITES lymphatic varices, in the larger lymphatic trunks between the glands, in the glands themselves, and in the thoracic duct. All the patho- logical conditions included in the term " filariasis " are due to the presence of these worms in the course of the lymphatic system. The embryos are non-pathogenetic, but they are of distinct import- ance as affording evidence of the hidden presence of the parental forms in the body. The embryos, known as F. noctuma, are long, slender, cylindrical worms, one end abruptly rounded off and the other finely taper- ing, 0-017 mm. (^V in-) in length, with a diameter about equal to that of a red blood-corpuscle ; each is contained in a very delicate sheath, within which it moves backwards and forwards. To demon- strate the presence of F. noctuma in the blood, films may be examined fresh, or after staining with a weak solution of fuchsin (3 or 4 drops of a saturated alcoholic solution in 1 oz. of water), or by special methods with methylene blue or logwood, the examination being made without a Ji /""N^ ^\ /f^ /"^vir^ cover-glass. In \ Ti /""^ C ^^^'-^ fresh specimens Fig. 248.—Attitudes of Filaria nocturna. cells, and after (In-otn Ptlamoiis ' Tropical Diseases.") they haVC quietened down they can be readily distinguished. Many films may have to be examined before any embryos are found. The examination must be carried out late in the evening ; the filarise seem to enter the peripheral circulation about 5 p.m., and increase in numbers till midnight, after which they gradually decrease until about 8 or 9 a.m. the following day, when none are to be found. Manson suggests that they thus wander out in the hope of being taken up by the mosquito, whose habits are also largely nocturnal, and into wliich they must enter to pass through the further stages of their life-history. If, however, the patient alters his habits, and sleeps during the day, the embryos are found during that time and not at night. During their absence from the peripheral circulation the embryos probably take refuge in the large arterial trunks, such, for example, as the internal carotid, and in the lungs. No entirely satisfactory explanation of this filarial periodicity is yet forthcoming. Manson and others have shown that transmission from man to man occurs through the agency of Culex fatigans, Anopheles nigerrimus, and other mosquitoes, which extract the embryo with the blood from