TUMOURS 478 in tlie operation. Immediate or subsequent epidermis grafting may be employed when the closure of the wound is impossible. Operation for a malignant tumour may sometimes be justified, even when a cure is not obtained, if the patient's life is prolonged in a con- dition of comparative comfort, or, even if life is not prolonged, if the distress and suffering due to the primary growth is reheved. Early operation on the lines above indicated is giving an increased proportion of successful results in almost all forms of malignant disease, but the word " cure " in this connexion must be used very guardedly. No arbitrary time limit of freedom from recurrence—such as the three years' limit suggested by Volkmann—can be adopted. It is undoubtedly true that in most cases in which recurrence takes place it ensues mthin the first year after operation, and that after the third year the prospect is very hopeful; but the period at which recurrence may ensue differs so widely in the different forms of malignant disease that, as Butlin points out, for some the three years' limit is too long, in some sufficiently accurate, and in others too short. Local recurrence means an incom- plete operation, but visceral recurrences may take place when no evidence of their presence could be detected at the time of the opera- tion. It has been suggested that late local recurrences may sometimes be explained by a new development of the disease rather than by incomplete removal of the original tumour. This may occasionally be true, but is usually disproved by the position of the recurrent growth. Thus, late recurrence may take place in the lymphatic glands with- out any recurrence in situ, as in the case of a woman whose breast was removed for carcinoma at the age of 56. Two years later a recurrent growth was removed from the axilla, and death occurred at the age of 70, with recurrence in the glands of the neck. Treatment of inoperable malignant tumours.—It is scarcely necessary to remind our readers that the treatment of malignant tumours by non-operative measures has always enjoyed a very unde- sirable degree of notoriety in the hands of quacks and other irregular practitioners, and that every question bearing upon this important subject must be approached with an open mind. In view of the extreme difficulty of the early recognition of the disease it is not surprising that cases can easily be collected which appear to illustrate the successful use of almost every conceivable variety of the so-called "cancer cures." Such cases will not bear scientific investigation, and to prove that a mahgnant growth has been effectually cured by any form of treatment it is first necessary to prove that a malignant growth actually existed. It must further be remembered that in advanced inoperable cases, in which alone non-operative methods are justifiable, considerable improvement in the patient's general condition, and even in the condition of the tumour itself, may result