578 TUMOURS canal the os is at first unchanged. Finally, however, in both varieties of the disease the whole of the vaginal portion of the cervix may be destroyed by ulceration, so that the origin of the disease cannot be determined either by its clinical or its microscopic features. When the pelvic tissues are involved, the pressure on the ureters and resulting hydronephrosis may be the cause of death, or the disease may spread to the bladder or rectum, sometimes causing fistulous communications. Carcinoma of the body of the uterus is much rarer than carcinoma of the cervix. It arises in the epithelium of the uterine glands, and in the typical form the cells retain the colunmar shape, but more often this is more or less completely lost and the growth has the structure of carcinoma simplex. The tumour usually presents itself as a soft, white, spongy growth projecting from some part of the inner surface of the uterus. It tends to spread, so that eventually it may involve a considerable part of the uterine wall as a thickening of the lining. In section the growth is seen to be invading the muscle, but a sharp line usually distinguishes the two, and even in the later stages the outer part of the muscular wall and its serous covering remain intact, so that, although considerably enlarged, the uterus may still retain its normal shape. Ultimately, however, the growth may form bosses on the peritoneal surface, and, extending to the parametrium, causes extensive adhesions and nodules on the adjacent peritoneum. Secondary deposits in the lumbar glands are exceptional, but deposits may be found in the ovaries ; metastases are rare. The proliferation of the uterine glands met with in cases of glandular endometritis or hypertrophy may produce appearances very difficult to distinguish liistologically from carcinoma. Carcinomas of the body of the uterus in which the cells are of the squamous form have been described, and are supposed to arise in the surface epithelium after it has undergone squamous metaplasia. Chorion-epithelioma Although the rare malignant tumour known by this name is not altogether confined in its origin to the uterus, tliis is the most convenient place to notice it. It is a special form of carcinoma which originates in the epithelium of the coverings of the embryo or foetus. The tumour most frequently arises from the placental villi, but may develop after abortion in the early stages of the develop- ment of the ovum. Chorion-epithelioma thus usually occurs as a tumour of the uterus, but it has been met with in the Fallopian tube in cases of tubal gestation, and is stated to have arisen occasionally as a primary growth in the wall of the vagina, possibly from the implantation of a fragment of a chorionic villus. Rarely the tumour has been observed to arise in connexion with teratomas of the ovary, mediastinum, and testis, presumably in cells homologous with the surface epithelium of the foetal membranes.