766 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 5. As a veliicle it makes a more homogeneous preparation for injection purposes than any other. Great care is necessary to procure the pahnitin pure in the form of a snow-white, flocculent powder. Pain following injection, especially of calomel, is sometimes a serious obstacle to treatment, inasmuch as the patient becomes " needle-shy " and is apt to neglect treatment. Various substances have therefore been introduced into the mercurial preparations for the avoidance of the pain. Morphia, cocaine, j8-eucaine, etc., will diminish discomfort immediately following the injection, but unfor- tunately have no effect upon the more troublesome pain which occurs on the second or third day after the injection. This symptom was often so severe after calomel that that drug had to be almost aban- doned, and reserved for severe cases in which pain was a matter of secondar}^ consideration. To obviate this disadvantage I added to my latest mercurial preparation equal parts of absolute creosote and camphoric acid—a combination which has proved a complete success, as it renders injection, even of calomel, quite painless. It also possesses very useful attributes : it is non-toxic, strongly antiseptic, and, being viscid, is a valuable adjuvant to the pahnitin in making up the vehicle. The following is the formula for the metallic cream :— Pure mercury ....... grm. x. " Creo-camph " ^ ....... c.c. xx. Palmitin . ...... ad c.c. c. Vi\x contains 1 gr. of metallic mercury. The greatest care must be exercised in seeing that the cream is of proper consistence. It should be kept in wide-mouthed glass bottles, and only removed when required for injection purposes. No attempt should be made to sterilize the cream, as it is already sterile and antiseptic (Leishman). Before use it should be well stirred up with a glass rod. In cold climates the cream is liable to become semi- solid, and it may require gentle heating in a warm bath. In the tropics the reverse occurs, and there the bottle containing the cream should always be kept on ice. It is advisable that the melting-point of this cream should be regulated to suit the climate. In England we find a cream with a melting-point of 35° C. is the best, whilst in the creams sent to the tropics it is raised to 37° C. Tliis form of metallic mercury has only one real disadvantage, viz. that should salivation take place after an injection it is difficult to control, unless the mercury can be removed by operation. I have never seen a case require so severe a measure, and think that the re- ported cases were the effect of excessive dosage ; if the quantity does not exceed 1J gr. per week, severe progressive stomatitis will not occur. 1 Equal parts of absolute creosote and camphorio acid.