MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINATION 617 Tuberculous meningitis.—The fluid may be clear, opalescent, or even distinctly purulent. The cellular constituents are in most cases mononucleated cells—lymphocytes or cells of the lymphocyte type. (Plate 35, Fig. 2.) In some cases, however, especially in those which run a very acute course, the main mass of the cells may be of polymor- phonuclear type, and a positive diagnosis can only be given if the Bacillus tuberculosis is found in the films, or if, as the result of inocula- tion, tuberculosis is produced. No doubt a lymphocytosis (if the clinical symptoms point to meningitis) always suggests tuberculosis ; but many errors have undoubtedly arisen from too much depend- ence being placed on this single piece of evidence. It has been shown conclusively that a lymphocytosis occurs in cases of general paralysis and in locomotor ataxia. These cases do not usually give rise to any confusion, but this lymphocytosis is also present in syphihtic lesions of the cord and membranes, in chronic posterior basic meningitis (cerebro- spinal meningitis), in any chronic irritative process, and in the later stages of the more acute infections, whereas, on the other hand, a polymorphonuclear leucocytosis, as has been already pointed out, may be a marked featm'e in some cases of tuberculous meningitis. It is claimed that the lymphocytosis occurs to a greater degree in tuberculous cases than in other pathological conditions; but, even if this is the case, only accurate counting and comparison with a considerable number of cases can be of any value in form- ing a differential diagnosis, and this is usually quite impracticable. With our very best counting methods the limits of error are con- siderable, and, with the methods in common use, reliable information is impossible. Epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis The fluid may be transparent, opalescent, or purulent, but the cellular elements are, in the vast majority of cases, of the polymorphonuclear type (Plate 35, Fig. 1). The characteristic organism (see p. 56) is found in the cells, and on its presence the diagnosis is based. Not uncommonly this organism may be associated with other bacteria, such as the pneumococcus, streptococcus, etc. Purulent meningitis.—A purulent exudate may be found, as has been stated, in tuberculous or in epidemic cerebro-sj^inal mening- itis. More commonly, however, the purulent cases are due to other organisms—e.g. the pneumococcus, streptococcus, B. influenzce, etc. During the early stages the exudate is composed mainly of poly- morphonuclear ceUs, but in the later stages, and especially during convalescence, cells of the lymphocyte type may be present in considerable numbers. Diagnosis of the causal organism can only be made by careful bacteriological examination. Sleeping sickness.—A lymphocytosis occurs, but the only