CELLS IN INFLAMMATORY LXUDATI-:S 115 irritant. In the more ustial condition the icd lilood-corpuscles are fonnd in iiTcjulai- cliinijj.s close to the \-csscIs finni wliicli tliev liave liccn cjcclcd ; fur ilicic seems little dunKt that llicsc accumulations are associated with the ruf)ture of the wails of over-distended vessels, especially those whos(> endothelium lias under.ifone de,ucnerative changes. Their conimdii and widi'spj-ead occurrence in <;enei'al septic poisonings seems to j)oint conclusively to the view that vascular degeneration is an important causal condition. 4. The emigration of leucocytes.—Though periiaps not the essential change in inliammatKin, ihe emigration of leucocytes is a constant feature and plays an e.\tremel\- important part. As has been already stated, if a transparent vascular membrane is irritated, the leucocytes can l)e observed collecting in the pei-ipheral stream of t lie dihited vessels and becoming adherent to tiieir walls. If carefully watched, they are seen protruding pseudopodia thmnuli the wall of the vessel; the external pait of the pseudopod gradual!v mcicases in size, and by degrees the whole leucocyte migrates to and wanders in the circumvascular tissues, eventually reaching the no.xious aeent or the site of damage. In most cases migration takes place through the walls of the capillaries and venules, and is most marked at tlie junction of t riliiilaries (Plate ID. Fig. '2). the leucocytes passing between the en- dothelial cells, and their passage being aided by softening of the cement substance there. Though in acute inflammatory conditions the poly- morphonuclear cells are the most active in the process of migration, yet it is now generally agreed that all forms of hirmal leucocytes are ama>boid in their character, and in virtue of this property are able to pass through thin membranes, at any rate, .such as the endothelium of ca])illaries. ]\Iany of them can penetrate thick layers of epithelium and other tissues, and in their passage from some of the larger \-eins. which certainly takes place, there must be dehnite migration through hlirous and muscular tissue. THE CELLS FOUND LX LXFLA.M.M AK Mt V KXI DATES The importance of cytology in diagnosis is now generally recog- nized, and, thovigh 1 would not in any wa\- minimize its value. I feel that very often too much is expected fixim it, and conclusions are drawn which are ipiite unjustihalile. The study of the cells in various inllammatory exudates forces the conclusion that no cell is sjiecitic, and that the difference in the cells of one exudate from those h| another is dependent more on the period of time the irritant has been acting than on the nature of the irritant. It is true that, in some cases, a diagnosis of tuberculosis can be conliinied hx a studv of the nature of the cells in the exudate, but it would be a risky procedure to make the diagnosis on the examination of the cells alone. Or,