916 DISEASES DUE TO ANIMAL PARASITES lymphatic collateral circulation is interfered witl-, their excision may be followed by lymphorrhoea, by elephantiasis of the legs, or by enlarged dilated lymphatics in other parts. 6. Lymph scrotum is a condition due to filariasis, in which the scrotum is enlarged and pendulous. The skin is soft and smooth, and may contain some dilated lymphatics from which lymph or a chylous fluid may escape. It is often associated with varicose groin-glands, and not infrequently becomes subject to attacks of lymphangitis and elephantoid fever, which lead to its enlargement and subsequent transformation into a typical elephantiasis. Abscess also may occur. Treatment.—When necessary, a complete removal of the scrotum should be carried out; but this operation sometimes leads eventu- ally to elephantiasis of the leg or some other filarial lesion, owing to the removal of the portion of the collateral circulation. 7. Chylous hydrocele and filarial orchitis.—In certain cases, from the rupture of a dilated lymphatic in the wall of the tunica vaginalis, a hydrocele is formed which contains chyle. This will be painless and not translucent, and will often be associated with lymph scrotum, varicose groin-glands, or some other filarial lesion. Embryos will be present in the blood and also, in large quantity, in the hydro- cele fluid. Such cases may be treated just as simple hydroceles by radical operation. The majority of hydroceles found in scrotal elephan- tiasis contain a clear fluid, neither lymph nor chyle. Orchitis of filarial origin is also reported, but presents no special features. 8. Filarial synovitis, especially of the knee, is described by Maitland. At various parts of the body, prominent dilated lymphatic varices may be met with, and sometimes in them the parent worm may be found. Similarly, thickened lymphatics may persist after an attack of filarial lymphangitis on the skin surface or in the subcutaneous tissues. 9. Chyluria.—This condition, fer se, is rather of medical than of surgical interest, and, strangely enough, it is not often associated with other filarial lesions. When, from obstruction in the thoracic duct, or in the main trunks near it, the abdominal and pelvic lym- phatics become varicose, great bunches of dilated lymphatics surround the whole course of the urinary tract. If, from any cause, rupture of a lymphatic occurs, chyle escapes into the tract and will be passed in the urine. The passage of milky urine, perhaps preceded by some lumbar pain, or sometimes retention of urine from the coagulation of the chyle in the bladder, is the first indication of the disease. The urine is subsequently passed in thin, worm-like clots, often after severe pain and distress. In either case the urine is milky, and at