CARCINOMA OF THE LARYNX 545 the bodies of the second, third, and fourth dorsal vertebra; and causing pressure on the spinal cord. There were also numerous secondary growths in the lungs and kidneys. In the isthmus of the thp-oid body was an encapsuled, partly cystic tumour as large as a hen's egg. The primary and secondary growths consisted of follicles, lined with epithelium, and containing colloid substance. In such a case as this— and other similar ones are on record—the surgeon is very apt to regard the condition of the spine as tuberculous and tlie associated enlarge- ment of the tl^Toid as unimportant. A careful examination of the breast, thyroid, or prostate may afford valuable evidence in cases of obscure bone tumours, or in cases suspected to be instances of tuber- culous disease of the spine in middle-aged or elderly subjects. In considering the histological variations of carcinomas occurring in connexion with the thyroid gland, Langhans refers to tumours probably arising in the parathyroids, as described by Kocher, as well as to others j^ossibly originating in the lateral th}Toid rudiment to which attention was Hrst drawn liy tJetzuwa. Carcinoma of the larynx is almost invariably of the squamous-celled form, but a few instances of columnar-celled growths, probably originating in the mucous glands, have been recorded. As a rule, the disease arises independently of any pre-existing pathological condition, and, contrary to what might be expected, it is said that there is no evidence that it occurs as a sequela of pachydermia of the larynx. Carcinoma of the larynx is usually divided into the intrinsic and extrinsic varieties, the intrinsic form occurring chiefly on the vocal cords and ventricular bands, and the extrinsic form on the ary-epiglottic folds, epiglottis, and posterior surface of the cricoid. The intrinsic form usually pursues a slower course and shows a less marked tendency to cause early glandular invasion than the extrinsic form. In car- cinoma of the larynx the glands affected are usually those lying along the internal jugular vein. The disease presents the same variations in its naked-eye appear- ances as are seen in squamous-celled carcinoma elsewhere, and may be warty or ulcerating. On the vocal cords the earliest sign of the disease may be, according to Semon, a unilateral congestion, a diffuse red uneven infiltration, a broad-based wart, or an uneven fringe-like out- growth. Impaired mobility of the affected cord is an important sign. Although carcinoma of the trachea and of the main bronchi must be regarded as pathological curiosities, the disease occasionally occurs in the bronchial tubes as a columnar-celled growth, or as carcinoma simplex. The growth may be met with as a localized thickening of the wall of the tube, projecting as a warty prominence into the lumen. As a result of the obstruction, bronchiectasis is likel)^ ■23