SUPPURATION The presence of an acute circumscribed abscess can be readily recognized by the signs and symptoms already described. I will mention a few of the fluctuating swellings from which it should be easily distinguished. Although Jtcematoma has a fluctuating centre and an oedematous margin, and, if the swelling be a large one, there may be leucocytosis, it differs from abscess in its sudden appearance after injury (which may be slight in haemophiha), in the absence of pain, heat, redness, pyrexia, constitutional depression, and enlarged lymphatic glands. On the same lines, distended gall-bladder and urinary bladder, collections of synovial fluid, and serous effusions can be diagnosed readily from acute circumscribed abscess. Also, synovial and serous effusions of a non-infective nature allow more functional activity than in the suppurative conditions. The association of an abscess with an aneurysm may be diflicult to diagnose ; many such cases have been opened in error, especially in cases of ulcerative endocarditis, where infected emboli have blocked the lumen and softened the walls of arteries, e.g. at the bifurcation of the brachial artery ; but the real state of things can be determined definitely by a careful consideration of the history of the case, by the suspicious anatomical relation to a big artery, and by the additional signs which may be present and which are indicative of a dilated blood-vessel. Dermoid, hydatid, sebaceous, and other cysts ivJiich are undergoing acute suppuration are often impossible to diagnose from an uncomplicated acute circumscribed abscess ; the history of the case, and proper examination of the contents and margins of the lesion, should determine exactly the real nature of the disease. No surgeon ought to be satisfied to make a diagnosis merely of acute circumscribed abscess or acute diffuse suppuration ; that is not an exact diagnosis, for the condition may be caused by many agents, and specific treatment may be indicated by the discovery of the actual micro-organisms of invasion. The prognosis, too, depends upon the knowledge as to which of many micro-organisms the patient is actually fighting. The clinical signs may help the diagnosis, but they cannot be trusted, and should always be controlled by a complete bacteriological examination. For instance, a localized acute abscess, such as a boil or carbuncle, is more frequently due to a staphylococcus than to any other infection, but an analogous condition may be induced by B. typhosus. When a localized abscess is complicated by extensive lymphangitis it may be a streptococcus lesion, but as marked a lymph- angitis may be the result of a highly virulent staphylococcus. On the other hand, even a virulent streptococcus may be extremely local in its action. A complete bacteriological examination must take account of (1) the blood, (2) the pus and the abscess wall.