198 SUPPURATION The centre of a tuberculous abscess is formed of caseated, firm, undifferentiated and unstainable tissue. A few examples of B. tuber- culosis can be seen now and then in the mass of caseous tissue. At the margin of the caseous material the outlines of giant cells, epithe- lioid cells, and lymphocytes can be discerned by shutting oft' some of the light. Immediately surrounding the caseous centre can be seen confluent tubercles in various stages of caseation. Externally to this zone are the typical discrete tubercles ; they are separated from each other by proliferating connective-tissue cells, in which can be seen thickening blood-vessels and capillaries whose endothelium is also undergoing proliferation. The whole lesion just described may be surrounded by a fibrous-tissue capsule which is more or less complete, and which in old cases may be calcareous. (6) When the bacillus of tuberculosis affects a part by wfiltration no tubercles can be seen ; the whole lesion is composed of a collection of epithelioid cells, among which here and there a giant cell may be detected. The whole may be surrounded by lymphocytes and fibrous tissue ; caseation is more and more marked till the centre of the lesion is reached, where it may be complete. The bacillus is to be found mainly in and among the epithelioid cells, and its presence is less and less marked as the centre of the caseous mass is reached. Whether it affect a part by the " formation of tubercles " or by " infiltration," the main clinical characteristics of the disease are the same. The giant cells and epithelioid cells are derived by proliferation of . the local tissues, and mainly of the endothelium. The epithelioid cell is the most characteristic cell of a tuberculous degeneration ; in all forms the B. tuberculosis should be first sought among these cells. Diagnosis.—A tuberculous abscess may be distinguished clini- cally from an acute abscess by the absence of acute inflammatory signs, by the comparatively great thickness of its margins, and by the com- paratively little constitutional disturbance to which it gives rise, even in the largest abscesses. The temperature may be normal or hectic in type. The swelling fluctuates. When an abscess travels from the spine to the groin the swelling in the groin gives an impulse on coughing. It can be distinguished from a femoral hernia by being irreducible; by appearing outside the main blood-vessels; and by the discovery of a deformity of the spine, for which search should be made in all suspected cases. Fatty tumour and hygroma of the neck are sometimes mistaken for tuberculous abscess. Amyloid disease may be present, but usually only when the B. tuberculosis is accompanied by some other micro-organism. In all tuberculous abscesses the diagnosis should be made, where possible, by the demonstration of the B. tuberculosis in the so-called