914 DISEASES DUE TO ANIMAL PARASITES cords and testicles being first dissected out, and tlie mass then removed as described above. 4. Elephantiasis of the legs (Fig. 2.50) is common, and is most usual below the loiee, but may develop to any extent imtil the whole of one or both lower extremities is afiected. There is a great increase in size, and the sldn has the usual elephantiatic characters : the nails are rough, thick, and deformed, and around the joints deep folds are produced so that the articular movements are still possible. Usually, however, from the weight of the part and its unwieldiness, walking is exceedingly difficult if not altogether impos- sible, and, as repeated attacks of Ij^mphangitis and elephantoid fever may supervene, the swelling goes on increasing till the limb assumes enormous proportions. Treatment is, on the whole, unsatisfactory, but Castellani has re- ported good results from the injections of fibrolysin and firm bandag- ing and subsequent excision of large pieces of skin. Radium has also proved beneficial in certain cases of severe lymphatic obstruction. Lympliangioplasty has, in my hands, been only temporarily success- ful. Streptococcal vaccines may be tried, especially when attacks of elephantoid fever still tend to recur. Elephantiasis also occurs to some extent in the arms, and in the scalp, breasts, and vulva, and may present as pedunculated masses depending from the groins, thighs, neck, and other parts of the skin surface. Removal by free excision must be adopted whenever possible in these cases. A condition sometimes known as false elephantiasis is sometimes found in the scrotum in cases of multiple urethral fistulse, especially in bilharziosis, or in the limbs, particularly the legs, in cases of chronic inflammation. This latter depends often on some deep necrosis of bone in the limbs and in other places, but has nothing to do with filariasis. A careful examination for thickening of bone, openings of fistulaj, etc., must be made before diagnosis. 5. Varicose lymph-glands.—This condition is described by Manson as occurring particularly in the inguinal and the femoral glands and, rarely, in the axilla. They form at first painless, soft swellings, varying considerably in size, and affecting one or both groins both above and below Poupart's ligament. After a time an attack of lymph- angitis occurs and the swellings become tender and increase in size. They contain a chylous or a lymph-like fluid, in which living embryos may be found. They are often associated with lymph scrotum, more rarely with chyluria and chylous hydrocele ; and, on dissection, are found to consist very largely of masses of varicose lymphatics connected with a large lymphatic varix in the pelvis and abdomen. These glands should only be removed if they are causing troublesome symptoms, such as those of lymphangitis ; as, in their removal, a portion of the