41 STAINING METHODS Staining spores.—Tlie following method may be used for staining spores : — 1. Dry the film thoroughly in air. 2. Fix by flaming. 3. Pour on carbol-fuchsin, heat till steam rises, then leave to stand for 5 minutes. 4. Decolorize slightly witli 1 per cent, sulphuric acid, or 1 per cent. hydrochloric acid. 5. Wash with tap-water. Counterstain. (a) Stain with malachite green or methyl green for half a minute. (h) Wash well with tap-water. 6. Dry roughly by pressing out between several thicknesses of filter- paper. 7. Dry thoroughly in ah'. 8. Mount in xylol damar. Staining flagella.—This is a difficult and often uncertain process. The slides must lie scruj^ulously clean, and quite young agar-cultures should be used (not more than 15 hours old). A small amount of growth must be taken on a platinum needle and carefully washed out into a few drops of distilled water in a watch-glass, avoiding violent movements of the needle or rubbing on the glass as the flagella are very easily broken off from tlie bacteria. A small drop of the emulsion, which must not exhibit more than a very faint turbidity indeed, is to be placed upon a slide and gently stroked along its surface. It is then air-dried, and may be stained by either of the following methods: — MacCeorrie's Method 1. Prepare and fix the film, as already directed. 2. Pour on some of the mordant-stain which is made up by mixing equal parts of Saturated alcoholic solution of night blue, Saturated aqueous solution of potash alum, and 10 per cent, aqueous solution of tannin, and warm gently above a flame for about 2 minutes. 3. Wash thoroughly in water. 4. Dry in air. 5. Mount in xylol damar. Muir's Modification of Pitfield's Method The mordant used is made up as follows :— 10 per cent, aqueous solution of tannic acid. 10 parts. Saturated aqueous solution of corrosive sublimate, 5 parts. Saturated aqueous solution of potash alum. 5 piarts. Carbol fuchsin (Ziehl-Neelsen), 5 parts. It must be freshly centrifugalized each time before use. The slain is— Saturated aqueous solution of potash alum, 25 parts. Saturated alcoholic solution of gentian violet, 5 parts.