APPLIED BACTERIOLOGY io6 may be all that the patient can stand. Usually, doses of 5 milhons opsonic index cannot be obtained as frequently as is desirable, routine injections of from 1 million to 2 million cocci every three to five days are safe and satisfactory ; a lapse of five to seven days after doses of 5 millions ; an interval of eight to ten days after inoculation of 10 millions. Larger doses than these are seldom desirable. '■ 3. Treatment by small and gradually increasing doses at frequent intervals should at all times be observed ; the use of large doses is even more dangerous than in acute cases, and may be followed by disastrous consequences. " 4. In orchitis, small doses of vaccine quickly relieve pain and cause a more rapid abatement of symptoms than is obtained by the usual routine treatment alone. " 5. In iritis the severe pain, which is a marked and obstinate feature, is relieved in 48 hours after an injection, and disappears in from three to four days ; cure is much hastened. " 6. In arthritis the treatment is of considerable value." Micrococcus catarrhalis.—Under this term is included a group of closely alhed cocci most usually met with in catarrhal con- ditions of the mucous membrane of the nose and throat. Surgically, M. catarrhalis is found sometimes as the sole responsible organism in pyorrhoea alveolaris, sometimes associated with either the Strep- tococcus pyogenes or the Diplococcus pneumonia', or with both. Vac- cines of this organism should always be autogenous. The coccus should be grown on nutrient agar at 37° C. for 24 hours, and killed by exposure to 57° C. for 1 hour. As the toxicity varies consider- ably with the different strains, it is always well to commence with small (.5-million) doses at intervals of four or five days, gi adually raising the dose up to 50 or even 100 millions as the patient responds to the injections. With the larger doses, intervals of eight to ten days are advisable. In the treatment of pyorrhoea, local treatment, i.e. scaUng, and dressing of the pockets round the teeth should be carried on side by side with vaccine treatment. As many patients show a very marked negative pliase if the hypodermic inoculation of the vaccine is administered within a short time of the mechanical treatment of the mouth, an injection should not be given within a couple of days of local treatment. Bacillus coli communis.—The surgical conditions in which this organism is met witli include appendicitis, peritonitis, cystitis, pyelitis, colitis and ischio-rectal abscess, as well as other localized suppurative processes. Stock vaccines of B. coli are practically worth- less. In the preparation of autogenous vaccines the organism should be grown on nutrient agar at 37° C. for 24 hours, and killed by exposure to 58° C. for 1 hour. In acute conditions due to B. coli 2| milhons