254 GANGRENE portions of tlie mandible and maxilla may die. Noma vulvae extends) in a like manner, and may cause a deep ulcer, which spreads towards the rectum, the bladder, or the pubes. Occasionally a similar form of gangrene attacks the scrotum of little boys and the umbilicus of infants. Treatment.—This must be both prompt and heroic. The whole of the gangrenous area, including soft parts and bone, must be clipped away with scissors and forceps until a surface which bleeds at every part is exposed. The walls of the cavity left by removing the slough are then thoroughly seared with the actual cautery, or freely swabbed with pure phenol or fuming nitric acid. If the latter is used, means must be taken to prevent inhalation of the fumes by temporarily plugging the faucial aperture with a sponge ; after three or four minutes the action of the acid must be arrested by the application of carbonate of soda. When the child is comatose an anaesthetic is unnecessary, otherwise a little chloroform may be administered. The mouth should be well opened with a gag and the head kept low, to prevent the inhalation of blood and sloughs. A copious dressing of cyanide gauze is applied, and frequent irrigation with a 4 per cent, solution of per- manganate of potash carried out until healing is well advanced. Later the stoma must be closed by some form of plastic operation, a pro- cedure which may tax the ingenuity of the surgeon to the utmost. 4. Phagedaena.—This is a form of gangrene which ravaged camps, prisons, and hospitals in pre-antiseptic times. It is a con- tagious disease, probably caused by an anaerobic bacillus or a strepto- coccus, which gains entrance through a wound or an abrasion. It spreads with great rapidity, and invariably causes death either by septic intoxication or by hfemorrhage from ulceration into a large vessel. After an incubation period varying from eight hours to three days, the disease develops in either an ulcerative or a gangrenous form. The first is characterized by the presence of a pulpy, greyish, fetid membrane, beneath which a superficial ulceration spreads with great rapidity. The second form progresses even more rapidly, and may cause death in less than forty-eight hours. The edges of the wound are everted, glazed, and dusky red, while the surface is covered with a thick, dark, putrid mass of sloughs and blood-clot. The intense inflammatory reaction radiates along the connective-tissue- planes and leads to extensive sloughing of skin, muscles, and not un- commonly of vessels. CWstitutional symptoms are very severe, fever,, diarrho-a, and delirium preceding coma and death. Treatment.—The contagious nature of the disease necessitates isolation of the patient amidst hygienic surroundings at the first sign of its appearance. Dressings must be burned as soon as they are removed, and every possible precaution taken to prevent spread