AGGLUTININS-PRECIPITINS 31 combination has had time to become complete, neither by heating nor in any other way can the toxicity of the mixture again be restored. Among the other immune substances produced in the course of the deveh^pment of immunity some of the most important are the agglutinins. These bodies are produced more paiticularly in infections with such organisms as B. typhosus, B. paratyphosns, B. coli communis, B. cholera} asiaticce, B. dysenterire, and tlie Micrococcus vielitensis. They differ from the antitoxins in that they do not, to any great extent at least, affect the pathogenetic action of the bac- teria in question, but produce a pliysical change in the condition of tlie organisms concerned. That is to say, they cause an aggregation of the bacteria into larger or smaller masses, which in the case of living motile forms is preceded by a paralysis of motion. The vitality of the bacteria is not affected by the occurrence of agglutination, nor is tliis phenomenon in any way dependent on the vital activities of the organisms themselves, since it occurs equally well if the bacteria in suspension have previously been killed by suitable means. The fact that a development of agglutinating substances in the blood-serum occurs in these infections has proved itself to be of prac- tical account, and is of very great utility both in assisting and con- firming the diagnosis. This is all the more the case since the agglu- tinins begin to appear at a very early stage in the disease—at a time when, in many instances, the clinical diagnosis must necessarily other- wise remain in doubt. When the production of agglutinins has once been established in a particular individual, evidence of agglutinating action may be found to persist for a long time, and in cases even for a number of years. In such a case, if the blood-serum be examined on several successive occasions its agglutinating power will be found to remain approximately constant; whereas, if the infection be a recent one, a series of exam- inations of the blood will show marked differences in the amount of agglutinin present on different occasions, since their production under- goes a definite rise and fall during the development and course of active immunity. The precipitins are produced in response to the injection of various albuminous substances, and appear in the serum of the animal injected. When such immune serum is added to a solution of the particular albumin concerned, a precipitate is formed. The reaction can be applied to the differentiation of albuminous bodies, such, for example, as the proteins of blood in different animals, and has been used with advantage both in forensic medicine and in hygiene. It must, however, be remembered that the differences observed in testing different solutions of albumin are in many cases only quanti- tative, and not qualitative. Consequently, a graduated series of