SEPTIC MOIST GANGRENE 207 Occasionally, however, if evaporation is assisted, and drainage of the part promoted, either by elevation or by establishment of a col- lateral circulation, no matter how feeble, aseptic moist gangrene may be converted into dry gangrene. Subjective symptoms are limited to pain, which may be very acute if embolism be the cause of the gangrene. Though constitutional symptoms are generally slight, there may be a mild degree of tox;emia from absorption of the products of tissue necrosis. Septic moist gangrene occurs when necrotic tissues are infected with sapropliytic bacteria. The part which micro-organisms play in relation to this form of gangrene is a twofold one. In the first place, the toxins secreted by them may l>e directly responsible for the death of the tissues, as in gangrenous cellulitis due to the Streptococcus pijof/enes, and in the variety known as infective, specific, or emphysematous gangrene, which follows infection of a wound with the Bacillus aerogenes capsulatus, the Bacillus coli, or the Bacillus cedeniatis maligni; or, in the second place, they gain access after the gangrenous process has commenced, and lead to the putrefactive changes which characterize septic moist gangrene. Coincidently with the cardinal signs of necrosis, viz. cessation of pulsation in the vessels, loss of heat, loss of sensation, and loss of pain, the skin (presuming that an extremity is affected) changes in colour. The amount of blood in the part at the time of death determines the primary tint. If the part be ana;mic, it first assumes a peculiar waxy hue ; if hyper- vascular, it becomes dusky red and mottled in places with patches of green and purple. Bullse, containing dark-coloured odorous fluid, form beneath the epidermis, which soon gives way and reveals a green or black slippery derma. Patches of green slcin now separate at the least touch, ex^aosing tlie muscles, which are seen to be falling apart and liquefying. Meanwhile, the part has increased in size, emits a foid odour, and frequently crepitates on pressure from distension with putrescent gases. Finally, when the gangrene ceases to spread, a line of separa- tion forms, and a slimy, fetid, many-coloured mass, consisting of disintegrated and partially liquefied soft parts, falls away, leaving the bone bare and dry. The minute changes which occur may be summed up in a few words. When living tissues become tlie seat of a septic or infective process, the bacterial toxins induce such an excessive leucocytosis and proliferation of connective-tissue cells that extensive stasis, followed by thrombosis in the small vessels, results. Continued action of the toxins, aided by the loss of blood supply, leads to necrosis of the tissue cells, which then undergo the changes already described under Dry Gangrene. Haemoglobin escapes from the red blood-