846 COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRHCEA discharge. The disease runs a far more serious course in the adult than in the infant, and is capable of completely destrojang the sight of the eye within a few days, blindness being occasioned through perforation or sloughing of the cornea. Treatment.-—When the disease has once broken out it must be combated by means of antiseptic lotions, introduced after all purulent matter has first been washed away by a stream of boiled water. The silver preparations are generally the most efiicacious, in the form either of silver nitrate or of protargol. When strong solutions are used they are best applied to the conjunctiva by means of a small brush, so as to avoid injuring the cornea. The prophylaxis of ophthalmia neonatorum is of great importance, and should form part of the routine of midwifery practice. The face and eyes of every infant immediately after birth should be carefully cleansed, and a few drops of an antiseptic, such as a 2 per cent, solution of nitrate of silver, then instilled into each eye. Happily such simple measures are most efficacious, and would, if universally adopted, save countless eyes from destruction. In all cases of gonorrhoea it is the duty of the surgeon to explain to his patients' the necessity for scrupulous cleanliness, on account of the infectiousness of the discharge and the danger of its being conveyed to the eyes. Should a patient unfortunately infect his eye, steps must at once be taken to protect the sound organ by means of a Buller's shield, or other dressing, from the grave risk of contamination. GONORRHCEAL METASTASES Metastatic deposits in consequence of the gonococci escaping into the general circulation may occur at almost any period of the disorder, either in the acute or in the chronic condition. Most frequently they are met with in about the third week of the disease—that is to say, about the time when posterior urethritis most commonly develops. GONORRHEAL RHEUMATISM Metastatic inflammatory changes in synovial and fibrous structures, such as the synovial membranes, ligaments and periarticular fascia? of the larger joints, the special bands of fasciae, such as the plantar ligaments or the ilio-tibial band, and the sheaths of nerves, are especially common, and have been grouped under the vague but convenient term " gonorrhoeal rheumatism." Gonorrhceal arthritis is the commonest variety. As a rule the infection is purely gonococcal, though at times other septic organisms may be present, more especially the staphylococcus. This rheumatic complication is found in about 2 per cent, of all cases of