664 GENERAL ANESTHESIA opening, through which ether is poured to charge the inhaler; this is closed by a glass stopper. By movement of the regulator, inspirations at the face-piece are allowed to traverse the ether in increasing degrees, so that, when an inspiration is drawn through the apparatus witli the indicator at " one half of the inspired air passes over the ether, but if the indicator is at f the whole must pass in this way. Before use the inhaler should be warmed. An ounce and a half of ether is then inserted with the indicator at |, the stopper replaced, the indicator moved to 0, and a long breath blown through the inhaler from the face-piece to clear out any ether vapour that may have escaped into the central shaft. The face-piece must be screwed on to the reservoir in such a position that when the inhaler is in use the opening for pouring in ether looks upwards. The narrow end of the face-piece corresponds with the bridge of the patient's nose. Being now charged with ether, but freed from any smell of it, the inhaler is applied to the face in such a way that, though there is no leakage of air round the edge of the face-piece, yet this does not press heavily upon the patient. The face-piece is grasped firmly by the anaesthetist's left hand, the little finger of which rests behind the angle of the lower jaw of the patient on the left side, his head being turned to the right. The anaesthetist's right hand serves to regulate the degree of pressure which the inhaler bears upon the patient's face, and also to move the indicator for admission of ether vapour. The patient is asked to breathe in and out of the mouth, and during the first two breaths the face-piece is just raised during inspiration and closely applied during expiration. Thus the bag is distended. Then the face- piece is allowed to rest on the face continuously, and the indicator is slowly moved from 0 towards F. At first this is done so slowly that at least a minute is spent before J is reached. Any coughing or holding of the breath at this time shows that the indicator is being moved too fast, and it is put back. At the end of about three minutes, the indicator being at J, consciousness will be abolished and the indicator may be pushed on more rapidly. For an adult man it is pushed on to F and kept there until the skin incision has been made, when it is brought back to ^. In the course of long operations it is often brought back to J, or half-way between that and 0. When stertor is first heard the face-piece is raised during one inspiration and reapplied. There must be no hurry to admit air before this point is reached, even if a little duskiness of the face is incurred, as prolonged excitement in the induction stage is apt to follow. When anaesthesia has been reached the face-piece is raised sufficiently often, generally about once in every five breaths, to keep the colour free from cyanosis by admission of breaths of air. In " easy " subjects the bag may be left off entirely, air being thus freely admitted throughout.