TREATMENT OF ACUTE URETHRITIS 817 Under the above treatment the inflammatory symptoms usually rapidly abate, the priapism and pain on micturition cease, and the secretion diminishes greatly in quantity, and becomes less purulent and more mucoid in character ; the pus cells are less numerous, and epithelial cells appear ; the gonococci are no longer seen in large numbers, and soon almost entirely disappear. When this change has taken place, usually in the second week, the injection fluid should be altered to one having more astringent properties. Twice a day, morning and mid-day, permanganate of potash (1-10,000) may be used, and in the evening nitrate of silver (1-10,000). The strength of tlie latter may be cautiously increased from time to time, for the urethra quickly becomes tolerant of these antiseptics, so that a solution tliat at first caused smarting and discomfort is, in a day or two, hardly felt. For the same reason it is well occasionally to vary the nature of the injection. It must be understood that the strength of the solutions mentioned above represents but an average useful strength. The more acute the inflammation, the weaker must be the injection. The effect of the astringent treatment is soon noticed ; the discharge rapidly diminishes, until it disappears, and perhaps only a " thread " or two can be detected in the urine to indicate inflammatory action. At this stage the patient, being free from pain, and not seeing any discharge, will almost inevitably believe himself to be cured, and, unless convinced of his error by his medical attendant, will withdraw himself from all further treatment. Should he do so and return to his former mode of living, in all probability the discharge will reappear ; for the gonococci, not being completely eliminated, will, in favourable circumstances, rekindle the inflammation. In the normal course of tlie disease a cure is rarely obtained under five or six weeks, and this period will be prolonged if exacerbations or complications take place. Should the disease still persist at the end of the sixth or eighth week, as evidenced by the presence of mucus and " threads " in the urine, it miLst be regarded as having passed into the subacute or chronic stage, and as requiring treatment appropriate to that condition. (See p. 828.) Treatment of acute posterior urethritis.—As the extension of the inflammation to the posterior part of the urethra does not usually take place until about the third week after the beginning of the attack, the case is generally under treatment when this com- plication appears. If the spread of the inflammation gives rise to very acute symptoms—hagmaturia, frequent micturition, or seminal emissions—all injections should be stopped until these symptoms have died down. As in anterior urethritis at such a period, the treat- ment must be purely constitutional, all local interference tending to aggravate the inflammation. 3 A