720 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 7. The silvery spot, first described by Taylor, is a rare con- dition. Its site is generally on the glans, especially near the meatus. At first it looks like a pin-head spot which had been touched with carbolic acid. It slowly increases, and is subsequently raised well above the surface by underlying indurated tissue. The integrity of its surface is maintained until it reaches an area of a line, when it is replaced by a shiny surface on an indurated base. 8. The inflamed chancre . . . \ Possess the charac- 9. The phagedaenic chancre . . l teristics implied 10. The relapsing chancre (true or false) J in their names. 11. The mixed chancre. It is possible for a simple chancre and a syphilitic chancre to co-exist; either may be inoculated on the other. If the virus of syphilis be inoculated at the same time and on the same site as that of simple chancre, a hard sore will eventually develop at the point formerly occupied by the soft sore. On the other hand, a soft sore may be engrafted on the top of a syphilitic chancre, with the result that an ulcerating sore on an indurated base is developed. Recurring or relapsing chancre (chancre redux).— 1. False relapsing chancre is a fresh induration appearing at or perhaps near the site of an old sore, without apparent cause, and at any period from a few weeks to ten or twelve years after the heal- ing of the original chancre. Its surface often remains intact, but may ulcerate and then simulate a disintegrating gumma. 2. True relapsing chancre.—After having entirely disappeared under treatment, the induration of a primary sore may reappear, the surface become broken, and the chancre assume its original con- dition, but again heal on resumption of the specific treatment. The writer believes that this recurrence is due to premature cessation of specific treatment. SITES OF CHANCRE A.—GENITAL CHANCRES Two-thirds of all chancres are found on the " mucous membrane " of the prepuce just behind the corona, or on the surface of the glans penis ; but they are also found at the urinary meatus, within the urethra, at the base of the penis, on the scrotum, and in the neigh- bourhood of the groin or the anus. The characters of the chancre vary somewhat with the site. Thus, sores on the glans penis are usually flat at first, and later become depressed and surrounded by laminated induration. Chancres of the corona show a tendency to elevation above the surface, and well-marked, extensive and nodular induration. In