122 INFLAMMATION tliat substances wHch act as protectors against disease products are secreted by tliese cells. The processes of ingestion and digestion can be observed in any newly produced exudate. The cells project processes of their protoplasm by which they surround and gradually incorporate their prey. When the ingestion is completed, the foreign material is seen to be surrounded by a clear space, probably caused by the secretion of a fluid from the cell. This fluid can in many cases be proved to have a distinctly acid reaction, and therefore seems to be comparable to the digestive fluids of the body. Unless the material ingested is too resistant, a gradual digestion of it takes place. With its complete absorption the cell may resume its normal characters. Undigested particles may be extruded by the cells, or carried to dis- tant parts, such as glands, spleen, etc., and there deposited. Very commonly these phagocytic cells exhibit a marked vacuo- lation of their protoplasm, and this is generally regarded as a degenera- tive change. In many cases, however, it seems rather to result from the discharge of the more fluid part of the cell—the cytoplasmic reticu- lum in this way becoming more obvious—and the vacuolation may, therefore, be regarded as evidence that the cells have performed their secretory function. It is generally taught that the polymorpho- nuclear leucocytes and the large mononucleated hyaline cells are the main phagocytes. There is, liowever, no doubt that all tlie hfemal leucocytes, the endothelial cells lining blood and lymphatic spaces and channels, the secreting cells of the liver, the cells lining the secret- ing and collecting tubules of the kidney, the cells lining the pulmonary alveoli and bronchi, the cells of mucous membranes, and many of the fixed connective-tissue cells, possess this phagocytic property in a greater or less degree. During the inflammatory processes the phagocytic properties of the cells become more pronounced (Plates 12, 13), and in the early stages the microphages of Metchnikoff are the most active. These polymorphonuclear leucocytes can ingest foreign inert particles, red blood-corpuscles, both polymorphonuclear and mononucleated cells, though their main function seems to be the ingestion and destruction of the bacteria which are the cause of the inflammation. This type of cell seems to have a positive attraction towards most pathogenetic bacteria, and in a very short time after the bacteria are introduced into the body these cells are seen at tlie periphery of the blood- vessels, passing through its walls, and migrating towards the invad- ing organisms. A careful examination shows that the passage out of the cells is aided by a slowing of the blood-stream and a softening of the cement substance between the endothelial cells, but that the essential factor is the migratory power which these cells have in virtue of their active amoeboid movements.