GANGRENE By CYRIL A. R. NITCH, M.S.Lond., F.R.G.S.Eng. Definition.—Gangrene is the term employed to denote the death of portions of the body sufficiently large to be visible to the naked eye ; for example, a finger, a toe, a part or the whole of an extremity, or a portion of the soft parts. Death of a small part of the body, limited to the soft parts, is usually described as sloughing, while death of bone or cartilage receives from clinicians the special and more accurate designation of necrosis. Inflammation and gangrene.—Inflammation is sometimes a prominent factor in the etiology of gangrene in that it may lead to the essential cause of gangrene—viz. failure of the circulation. One of three termmations of the inflammatory process is possible : resolution may take place owing to cessation of the cause of inflam- mation, granulation tissue may be formed by its continuance, or extensive thrombosis ending in gangrene may be induced by its violence. Necrosis of bone, a common form of gangrene, usually a result of inflammation, serves to emphasize the importance of the role occasionally played by inflammation in the production of gangrene. Again, it is by an inflammatory process that the line of demarca- tion is formed whereby the dead part is separated from the living. The incidence of this process may be directly responsible for the exten- sion of the gangrene, particularly in the senile variety, in which there is lowered vitality of the part consequent on the small calibre of the blood-vessels. GENERAL OUTLINE OF THE PROCESS A formal classification of gangrene will be found on p. 210, and subsequently the dift'erent varieties are fully discussed under their respective headings. At present, to avoid repetition, it is important to point out that clinically there are two forms—dry gangrene and moist gangrene—and that the moist variety is distinguished as either septic or aseptic. Whether a case will be dry or moist is largely a matter of accident, and depends, among other factors, upon the