5o6 TUMOURS The round-celled form is most common, and glandular invasion is present in about one-third of the cases. Metastases in the lungs appear to be rare, but are common in the liver and kidneys. In the intestine intussusception may result and cause haemorrhage, but, apart from this, haemorrhage is rare. Melanotic sarcoma has several times been recorded in the lower part of the rectum. Among the features which may help to distinguish sarcoma of the alimentary canal from carcinoma. Corner and Fairbank mention the rapid course of the disease and the early occurrence of marked anaemia and wasting, the presence of a tumour of considerable size, the absence of hsemorrhage, and the presence of irregular fever. Sarcoma of serous membranes usually occurs in the form of an endotlieUal sarcoma. Such a growth may be illustrated by certain tumours of the pleura wliich may take the form of a diffuse tliickening of the serous membrane, associated with the presence of nodules on the surface, and of infiltrating masses of growth extending into the mediastinal tissues and the substance of the lung. In one case of this land a mass of growth extended from the apex of the lung into the tissues at the root of the neck. The structure of an endothelial sarcoma of the pleura is illustrated in Fig 113. In the peritoneum similar growths have been met with and may have the diffuse characters above described. The recognition of this form of sarcoma may be attended with much practical difficulty. Thus, it may closely resemble a chronic inflammatory thickening of the peritoneum, or a diffuse carcinomatous infiltration secondary to a primary carcinoma, especially of the stomach. It is probable that diffuse endothelial sarcoma is one cause of the peculiar condition known as leather-bottle stomach, a condition wliich may also result from diffuse carcinoma of the organ, as well as from chronic gastritis and from chronic peritonitis. In the cerebral and spinal meninges sarcoma may occur as an angio-sarcoma, in wliich the peculiar hyaline degeneration of the vessels already mentioned may be present (p. 487). Sarcomas of the meninges may extend into the brain substance, or perforate the skull. Sarcomas occasionally arise in the subserous tissue, especially of the peritoneum. Retroperitoneal sarcoma usually occurs as the round-celled form, and in some instances arises in the aortic glands as a lymplio-sarcoma. In other cases the growth probably begins in the perirenal connective tissue. Tumours of this nature often reach large proportions, and may readily be confused with other abdominal growths, especially of the Iddney. Subserous sarcomas are occasionally met with in the omentum and mesentery. Similar tumours also occur in the mediastinum.