137 LOCAL SYMPTOMS the vessel, .iiul tlic cnlDur is not caused to disappear : stasis, or even tlirombosis. has occuricd. In sonic ot 1 he lunrc acute fnrins of inllainnia- tion mottled red |iatclies aic picsenl. w here I he i-ed eiirpusch's hav(^ made their way in large numbers through tiie damaged walls of the vessels. In non-vascular tissues the I'cdness must })e loolced foi' in the neighbour- ing vascular-])ai'1s ; tlie hx'pera'nua and congestion of the conjunctiva in coi-neal ulceration is one of the liest known exam])les of this. After the sulisnh'nce of an acute inflammation the restoration of the vessels 111 the alTcctcd area to their normal condition mav occupv weelcs or montlis. and conse(|uent 1\- the redness is of like duration: more- over, when large numlK-rs of red corpuscles have escaped into the tissues aidund the vessels, permanent isigmentation may remain. 2. Swelling is dependent in the first place upon the increased amount of lihmd in the |iart ; l)ut very soon (>xudation of lluid and cells from the disleiuh'd Iihlod-vessels takes jjlace, and the swelling becomes more oln-ious. When the skin ])its on jiressure in a case of acute inflammation, exudation into the tissues immediately beneath it may be inferred. The amount of exudation which takes jjlace is dependent cliiefh' upon the laxity or density of the tissues involved. Thus, in abscess of the jjalm the dense subcutaneous tissue, inter- sected everywhere by tough librous bands, is capable of rec'eiving only the smallest amount of exudation, and the swelling is comparatively slight. Similarlv. inflamed bones cannot themselves swell in response to inflainmatinn, and anv eidargement detected bv examination is due to (>xudation into or l)eneath their periosteal covering. On the uther hand, exudation into the lax tissues of the eyelid or the scrotum may give rise to the most exaggerated degrees of swelling. Neglect to bear in mind this differing tendency to exudation may lead to error. Thus, to recur to the first (pioted examjile of a ])almar abscess, while it is true that the palmar swelling is slight, there may be a very advanced degree of tumefaction of the tissues on the dorsum of the hand, which mav distract attention from the real site of the afltection. As a further exam])le ma\- be mentioned the swelling of the eyelid which may accom])any an iidhimmatory focus on the scalp hidden from view bv the hair. It will be understood from what has been said that the amount of swelling is therefore not necessarily an index to the severity of the inllamiiiation. •"). Heat in iidhimmation is both a subjective and an oljjective phenomenon. Tn thr ]iatient it is evident by the (diaracteristic l)uruing feeling, whilst the surgeon may readily appreciate its pre- sence liv placing his hand over the inflamed part. The use of a ther- mometer will show readilv a difference between the temperature of the skin over the area of inflammation and the normal skin at a distance. As is stated later, inflammation is associated with a rise