886 HYDROPHOBIA By professor CALMETTE, M.D. Hydrophobia is a virulent disease common to all mammifers, in- cluding man. It is transmissible by accidental—e.g. bites—or by artificial inoculation of virus. This poison is present in the nervous system and in the saliva of the animal or man affected. It has been found with variable frequency in all parts of the globe, except Australia, which up to the present has remained immune, thanks to the strict prophylactic measures which have been taken to preserve the continent from the disease. In England it was extremely widespread at the commencement of the last century. In 1830 the surgeons of St. George's Hospital, London, verified more than 4,000 cases due to dog bites. It has been virtually exterminated in England by muzzling dogs and by the institution of strict quarantine for imported dogs. But in the United States and in Canada it is still frequent. Symptomatic description. 1. Hydrophobia in man.— Before the appearance of characteristic symptoms of hydrophobia the patient suffers pricking sensations and pain, more or less severe, in the region of the bite. Later the disease shows itself in either the convulsive or the paralytic form. At the outset of one or the other of these forms the patient is melancholy and restless; he seeks solitude; has headache, often violent, and accompanied by hallucinations of hearing and smell. His sleep is disturbed by terrible nightmares. Sometimes his depres- sion gives place to loquacity or excessive restlessness. From two to five days afterwards there appear difficulty in swal- lowing, pain, and modification of the respiratory rhythm. When the patient tries to eat or to drink he experiences an irresistible con- traction of the pharynx with painful spasms. At the mere sight of liquid his jaws clench convulsively, his gaze becomes fixed, and his breathing stops for a moment. The spasms are provoked also by a sudden current of air, by a strong light, a strong odour, or an unexpected noise. A patient affected with hydrophobia is seldom dangerous to his