FORMS OF INFLAMMATION 127 action. In all rases the c.xudcil lluiil is riclin- in |>r()fi>in llian the ordinary l\'in|ili. ami ina\' rontaiii di-ji-st i\ i' i'lM incnts, Ijaclericidal substances, etc 1. Acute serous inflammation.—Tiiis condition is one in \vhi(;li the Iransudalinn nl lymph li(jni tlie vessels is the marked feature, the eini;^ration nl leucocytes being only sliglit in deurei'. Thus fibrin formation does not take place or is present only to a slight extent. All the essential ])licnomena which have been de.scribed ai)i)\-e are present, though not in the same degree or intensity. The serous exudate occurs especially in the milder forms of in- llanimalion. but in some virulent infections the exuded lluid may be serous in character. The fluid contains few cells, practically no fil)rin, but is richer in albuminous substances than the lymph. These exudates, as I have already stated, bring about a dilution of the toxins, and at the same time separate the elements of the tissue from one another. '\'\\vv may be carriers of ])rotective substances to adjacent or even to distant parts by way of the lymphatics. Though these exudates are in the main favourable, yet in certain ca.ses the swelling caused by them may give rise to grave symptoms—-e.g. swellings about the ^lottis, causing sufl'ocation. 2. Inflammation aff'ecting serous surfaces; acute fibrinous or sero-fibrinous inflammation.—In this form ol inllanimat Kin one ol the earliest changes is a swelling and a loosening of the covering endothelial cells. Tliese become dis- charged and are found along with the various forms of leucocytes in the exudate. The \ascularization of the jiart is especially exhibited in the suliserous connective-tissue layer, and it is from the dilated \-essels of this region that the emigrated leucocytes, which ai'e very aliundant. maiidy come. The pronounced formation of fibrin which occurs in this condition is in part due to tlie denuding of the surface endothelium, though the breaking down of the lai'ge number of leu- cocytes which ha\e jiassed out of the vessels is the main factor. The transudation of serum may be very slight, or it may Ije more abun- dant. It would ajipear that in these cases the irritant either has a special action on the endothelium of the vessels, causing its destruc- tion, so that tlie leucocytes can pass out more easily, or has a special |)ositi\e cheniiotactic mffuence on tlie leucocytes. The exudate is rich in leucocvtes, llbrin is present, sometimes in considerable abund- ance (Plate II. l-'ig. 1), but the serum is small in (]uantity, and in conse(|uence the surfaces on which the deposit occurs become covered with a granular or velvety la^er of greater or lesser thickness, which in its eaiiv stage can be readily stripped off. In this layer many of the cells aie necrotic leucocytes, lint einlothelial and other cells may also lie present.