SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 22 pressures), the chemiotactic action would appear to be more closely related to the favourable or unfavourable action on the micro-organisms concerned of the various rays or gaseous conditions under observation, so that the bacteria are found to collect in the region of those light- rays or that particular oxygen-tension which is most favourable to their development and growth. The phenomena of chemiotaxis are exhibited not only by bacteria, but also by many other unicellular organisms, and particularly by the phagocytic cells within the animal body. Between the latter and invading micro-organisms there appears to be strong mutual chemiotaxis (positive or negative), which is of great importance from its bearing on the phenomena of local inflammation (emigration of leucocytes, etc.) and infection in general, and in relation to the develop- ment of immunity. 3. DISTRIBUTION OF BACTERIA IN NATURE In discussing the distribution of bacteria in a work on surgery, attention must naturally be directed chiefly to the pathogenetic forms. But the saprophytes also require consideration in this connexion, since a number of them may invade a surgical lesion, as, for example, a sup- purating wound, and assist the progress of the pyogenetic organisms either by forming or removing particular substances, or by producing decomposition in necrotic tissues. Thus, aerobic saprophytes may enable anaerobic pathogenetic bacteria (e.g. in tetanus) to obtain a foot- hold by removing oxygen, and many of the toxic symptoms of moist gangrene, for example, may be attributed to the action of substances produced in the dead tissues by bacteria of putrefaction. Moreover, the presence of a large number of saprophytic forms in any given situa- tion is a valuable indicator which should at once suggest the possibility that pathogenetic organisms may also be present, as, for example, in the air of an operating theatre. Bacteria as they occur in nature are to be found in fluids of different kinds, and especially water, in the soil, in the substance and upon the surface of solid bodies, and in the air. In the air their presence is in one sense merely accidental, and is due to their being carried up in dust, or in the fine spray from splashing fluids, or discharged into it from the mouth and air-passages of animals or man in coughing, sneezing, or speaking. It forms no part of their natural habitat, and yields for the most part chiefly such bacterial forms as offer a considerable resistance to drying. In the case of inhabited rooms and houses, however, a variety of pathogenetic forms, including the less resistant kinds, are often present, since the air receives continual fresh infections from the saliva sprayed into it in speaking. This is a point of special importance to the operating surgeon who, while observ-