ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 746 seldom any suppuration or any other degeneration, in marked con- trast to tuberculous affections of the same parts. Gummatous arthritis generally attacks the knee-joint. It begins in an insidious manner, there being but slight pain and little effusion. It may set up acute arthritis, ending in complete destruc- tion of the joint, and leading to ankylosis. When the gummatous disease begins in the bones, osteitis affects both the epiphysis and the diaphysis, causing enlargement of the bone near the joint, which is frequently preceded by nocturnal pains, though later on pain is but slight. The bursas.—In tertiary sy^jhilis the patellar bursse are fre- quently attacked by painless, elastic, gummatous infiltration. Soften- ing and very tedious ulceration may follow. The fingers and toes.—Dactylitis syphilitica is a condition due to gummatous deposit, which may begin in the bones and peri- osteum, eventually implicating the joints ; or it may commence in the subcutaneous tissue of the fingers and toes, and also may extend to the joints. In the former case the disease develops slowly as an enlargement of one of the fingers or toes. The skin over it becomes stretched and swollen ; pain is slight, and may be completely absent. Only one phalanx may be attacked at a time, but usually two or more, and eventually the whole finger or toe becomes implicated. The fingers are attacked more often than the toes. The swelling may remain in the same indolent condition for a long time, and then the gummatous deposit may be either absorbed, or softened and discharged through a sinus. The bone is generally left permanently deformed, and may be partly absorbed and shortened, or thickened. The muscles and tendons.— Myositis occurs as the result of tertiary syphilis in three forms : the hypersemic, the chronic infil- trative, and the gummatous nodular. Myositis, when chronic, tends to more or less contraction. Pain is usually of a dull, aching character. One or more muscles may be attacked at the same time. Those most frequently involved are the flexors of the upper extremity, especially the biceps. Globular, fusiform, or flat gummatous tumours may occur in the muscles. When superficial they become adherent to the aponeu- rosis, which becomes inflamed and hypertrophied. They are best detected when the muscle is relaxed ; they excite little pain, their chief inconvenience being interference with motion. These tumours may undergo softening, break down, and form deep ulcers. Tertiary lesions of tendons take the shape of teno-synovitis, with hyper£emia of the sheath and serous effusion. They form elastic, often fluctuating tumours, and may be painful. Gummata some- times form in tendons.