SNAKE AND SCORPION BITES 9i8 in colour and patchy with extravasated blood. The swelling may extend up the whole limb, even on to the trunk. The victim is iisually in a state of terror, and may be suffering from severe shock ; he becomes faint and dizzy, and finds himself unable to stand. He may suffer from profuse salivation and paralysis of the muscles of the tongue and larynx, and is soon attacked by paralysis beginning in the legs but rapidly becoming general. Nausea and vomiting precede a gradual failure of respiration. Finally the heart stops, and the patient dies, with slight convulsions, in from three to fifteen hours. Recovery may occur, however, and is usually rapid and complete, though death may supervene later from septic absorption fi'om the bite, which in all cases is infected, and heals but slowly, perhaps leaving ulcerated areas. Treatment must be prompt and thorough. An elastic ligature, or several, must be placed above the bite, and a large area around it excised (in the case of a finger or toe, immediate amputation may be done); 20-30 c.c. of fresh 1 per cent, solution of calcium chloride is then injected, and the raw surface freely washed with a large quantity of sodium hypochlorite or calcium chloride, or rubbed with permanganate of potassium crystals. The appropriate anti- venine, if available, must be repeatedly injected, and subsequently the wound mast be treated secundum artem. To counteract shock, strychnine must be injected hypodermically in large and repeated doses, and brandy, ether and ammonia, and other forms of stimu- lant, vigorously exhibited. In the severest cases artificial respiration may tide the victim over his crisis. 3. In the case of bites from vipers in Clreat Britain, very serious symptoms may be produced, but they are comparatively rarely fatal. They come on very rapidly, with pain, redness, and swelling in the bite, extreme prostration, fainting and collapse, and even death from heart failure. The local signs and general symptoms resemble those described above, but in a much milder degree, and treatment follows the same general lines. 4. Bites from non-poisonous snakes often produce grave symptoms of fright and shock, and sometimes violent delirium, but tliis symp- tom is more frequently ascribable to the large quantities of brandy administered by misguided friends. Scorpion bites produce effects varying considerably with the age of the victim. They are very dangerous and quite often fatal in children, but comparatively harmless in healthy adults. When a child is bitten the local signs may be quite insignificant, a tiny mark like a flea-bite being sometimes seen, though, in a dark skin, this may quite escape detection. Very shortly afterwards the child faints, and may remain in a state of collapse for two or three