8i BACILLUS TUBERCULOSIS produces a peculiar and distiuctive aromatic smell something like that of fresh honey. On glycerine-agar or on glycerine-serum the growth begins to appear in about 10-14 days in the form of fine, dry scales, which gradually spread over the surface of the medium. The film becomes thicker, and begins to wrinkle, and in the course of several weeks presents a heaped-up, corrugated, flaked, and broken mass of somewhat wax-like greyish-yellow or even slightly orange-coloured growth. On glycerine-potato the organism presents a similar appearance,, though the growth is rather more rapid and is usually more highly pigmented. Its optimum temperature is about 37° C, and its limits of growth are from about 30° C. (22° C. or 23° C. under special conditions) to 42° C. In a moist condition it is killed in culture within from 5 to 10 minutes at 80° C, but in sputum and other tuberculous material at least 5 minutes' boiling is required to destroy it with certainty. In a dried condition it may remain alive and virulent for at least a year. On glycerine media its cultures live for about six months, but will certainly be dead within eight months to a year. For ordinary purposes carbolic acid is the best disinfectant of tuberculous material, while corrosive sublimate is relatively inefficient in destroying the bacilli in sputum and similar vehicles of infection. The disinfection of sputum is most satisfactorily carried out by the addition of about double its volume of 5 per cent, carbolic-acid solution. Incidentally this procedure also improves the subsequent Ziehl-Neelsen staining of the bacilli. Direct sunlight rapidly destroys the tubercle bacillus, and is one of the most efficient factors in helping to render it innocuous in nature, especially where it is present in a dried condition, as, for instance, in dust. The products of the organism are of interest owing to the repeated attempts which have been made to employ them in various prepara- tions for the treatment of tuberculous lesions in the human subject, and for the diagnosis of tuberculosis. These attempts have not at present led to clear and satisfactory results in treatment, though a. number of successful cases are being recorded by observers who main- tain that tuberculin as now employed yields results of undoubted value in particular forms of tuberculous infection. As a diagnostic agent its value is certainly beyond all question. As first made known by Koch in 1891, tuhercuUn consisted of glycerine-bouillon cultures of the bacillus from six to eight weeks old,, which were evaporated to xV'^h their volume in a water-bath at 90° C. The bacilli were killed in the course of this procedure, and were sub- sequently filtered off. The fluid remaining was diluted and employed G