ETIOLOGY OF SUPPURATION does not become evident until the lapse of three weeks or more. In cases where this occirrs there is usually a history of rise of tempera- ture, pain, or want of union, which affords ample evidence of early infection. Factors upon which suppuration depends.—Sujjpuratiou depends upon factors which render its occurrence inevitable, and upon the adjustment of these factors. For instance, the inoculation of strep- tococcus may induce no visible change, or it may induce such changes as an area of hyperasmia, or a local collection of serum, or a collection of pus, or py?emia, or even death in a few hours. I have seen a case develop many lesions which were induced by the presence of pneumo- coccus in pure culture, but not in a single one was there any true suppuration. The regulating factors which induce suppuration are considered in two categories according as they pertain to—(a) the micro-organism ; (6) the host. (a) Factors connected with the micro-organisji. 1. T]ie particular hind of micro-organisvi.-—All pathogenetic micro-organisms have not the capacity to induce suppuration. Moreover, suppuration does not inevitably follow the inoculation of a culture which is known to be capable of inducing it under other circumstances. Perhaps the micro-organism wlrich induces suppuration with the greatest degree of certainty is the staphylococcus. The inoculation of the streptococcus may be followed by a great variety of effects, as has just been mentioned. 2. Dose. — The dose, i.e. the number of the micro-organism inocu- lated, is more important in the case of those whose virulence and variation of virulence are not very great. Although there is variation in the virulence in different strains of staphylococcus, yet there is not the gTeat variation that is observed in the case of streptococcus ; hence the dose is a very important factor in the case of stajjhylococcus, and virulence may be a more important factor in the case of streptococcus, but even for a streptococcus culture capable of inducing suppuration the dose must remain an important factor. With regard to the dose of staphylococci necessary to produce suppuration, Watson Clieyne showed that it required 250 millions to produce an acute abscess in rabbits. Harman found that it required 500 millions staphylococci to produce an acute abscess in rabbits, but that 50 millions were sutH- cient to cause the same result in dogs. My exjjerience would suggest that these figures are excessive in the case of man ; mankind appears to be more susceptible to staphylococcus infections than are the lower animals., 3. Virulence.—The virulence of a micro-organism is also an important factor in discussing its capability of causing sujDj^uration. A large dose of a highly virulent micro-organism would probably kill a host