MADURA FOOT 86i cultivated, attempts are being made to form a vaccine. With any line of treatment, failures are more common than successes. The perforating ulcers usually heal readily if they are deeply incised. The incision must completely divide the floor of the ulcer. Por gangrene or extensive necrosis, amputation of the affected part is the only measure; the wounds heal readily and the general health usually improves. Extensive operations can often be performed in lepers without anassthetics. In the larjTigeal affections, tracheotomy rarely causss any improvement. MADURA FOOT (MYCETOMA) A disease affecting usually the foot and ankle, rarely the hands or buttocks, and occurring in many parts of the tropics. In parts of India and in East Africa it is a common disease. It is rare in the West Indies, British Guiana, Cyprus, and the Malay States. Etiology.—The organism causing tlie disease is a streptothrix which occurs in small nodules. The free ends of the filaments become clubbed as in the actinomyces, but the " clubs " are more spherical. Several varieties are described corresponding to variations in the colour of the nodules, which in mass may be white, black, or pink, or in the shape of the clubs. Brumpt describes seven in all. The streptothrix grows slowly on artificial media, forming small limpet-shaped masses. In culture it retains its stain when treated by Gram's method. It liquefies gelatin slowly. Clinical features.—The affected parts become swollen and useless, and riddled with sinuses leading deep into the tissues. From these sinuses a thin watery or oily fluid exudes, in which granules of the Streptothrix madurcB may be found. The deeper parts are con- verted into hard, fibrous tissue in which small granulomatous masses are situated ; it is in these granulomas that the fungus grows. The method of invasion is not known, but from the frequency with which the foot is affected it may be inferred that the infection usually takes place from some source in the ground. The streptothrix, once introduced, spreads deeply, and ultimately invades the bones of the foot or ankle. The affected foot is quite useless. The muscles of the leg and thigh atrophy, and the swollen, distorted foot at the end of the withered limb makes an unmistakable clinical picture (Fig. 236). The disease lasts for years, progresses slowly, and shows no tendency to become generalized. Death usually occurs, not from the disease, but from intercurrent affections. The differential diagnosis is easy if mycetoma is sus- pected ; otherwise it may be mistaken for syphilis, or caries or necrosis of the tarsal bones or of the ankle. The absence of any other evidence