46 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY Wassebmann's Reaction for Syphilis In this reaction measured quantities of serum from the patient, from a healthy subject, and from a case of syphilis known to give a positive result, are taken and compared together after heating for half an hour at 56째 C. to remove complement. A hsemolytic serum prepared against the red blood-corpuscles of either the sheep or ox by the repeated intraperitoneal injection of such corpuscles into a rabbit may conveniently be employed. This serum is heated for half an hour at 56째 C. to ensure the absence of complement. The experiment is carried out on homologous washed red corpuscles (i.e. sheep's htemolytic serum on sheep's corpuscles and ox's serum on ox's corpuscles). As " antigen " is used an alcoholic extract of syphilitic liver. But if this is not available a similar extract of rabbit's or guinea-pig's heart-muscle is now known to answer the purpose. The extract is prepared by treating the minced-up tissue with ten to twelve times its weight of absolute alcohol. Complement is obtained by using the serum of a freshly killed guinea-pig. The red corjjuscles to be used are twice washed with " normal" salt solution (0-85 per cent.), and made up with normal salt solution to about six times the original volume of the blood. The serums to be tested are first mixed in the appropriate dilutions with the proper amounts of liver extract, and the complement-containing serum of a guinea-pig. The fluids are mixed together and then incubated in a water- bath for 2 hours at 37째 C. At the end of this period suitable amounts of the hsemolytic immune serum and of the washed red corpuscles are added to each tube, and the whole well mixed by shaking and placed in a water-bath at 37째 C. for from one to two hours. The amount of immune serum used should be two or three times the quantity which can comfdetely haemolyse the red corpuscles when sufficient complement is provided, and should be so diluted that this amount is present in 0 '3 c.c. of the diluted serum. The amount of complement to be recommended is about 2V c.c. of normal guinea-pig's serum. Besides the series of controls provided by the tubes with normal human serum, and with known syphilitic serum, a control must be put up containing no human serum of any kind, as a precaution against the fallacy which arises if the liver extract alone happens to be able to counteract the complement and prevent haemolysis. Another control is made without either human serum or liver extract, to exhibit the haemolysis which can actually be pro- duced by the hasmolytic serum and the complement employed. The table below shows the precise manner in which the tubes should be put up, as regards the number of observations needed, and the quantities of the various fluids which should be used. It is to be observed that at each stage of the reaction the total volume of fluid is the same in all the tubes. Tubes 4 to 12 in the table obviously represent controls of various kinds. Consequently, in testing a number of suspected serums at the same time, these tubes only require to be put up once. As performed in the manner shown below, the test is not merely a qualitative one, but also gives accurately quantitative results, since a series of three tubes is taken in each case. The result depends on whether and to what extent haemolysis is prevented