8o6 GONORRHCEA Situated witliin the prostate and surrounding the vesical orifice there is the internal prostatic or vesical sphincter, an ill-defined ring of involuntary muscular fibres intermixed with much elastic tissue. The fibres of tliis muscle are so slender that Finger and many other authorities believe that its action can be but slight, and that it is not sufficiently powerful to prevent the escape of the urine from the dis- tended bladder. Witliin the prostate, below the internal prostatic sphincter, and separated from it by glandular tissue, there is another and more powerful ring of muscular fibres, chiefly voluntary, which surrounds the urethral canal and constitutes the external prostatic or vesical spliincter. When the urethral canal leaves the apex of the prostate, it is still surrounded by a thick layer of voluntary muscular fibres, known as the compressor urethrfe (Fig. 203). Fig. 202—Cast of the male urethra. A, Bladder ; e, prostatic portion ; c, membranous portion ; d, bulbous portion ; E, penile portion ; F, fossa navicularis. This last muscle plays a very important part in the production of " spasm of the urethra." A simple bougie, in its passage through the membranous portion of the urethra in a healthy person, stimulates the nerve-endings of the mucous membrane and causes contraction of the compressor urethree muscle ; it is therefore grasped and hindered in its passage towards the bladder. When the urethra is inflamed, the slightest irritation to the mucous membrane, such as is caused by the passage of urine, may give rise to so violent a spasm of this muscle as to cause retention of urine. This spasmodic contraction may be called forth, not only by the passage of a foreign body like a bougie, but also by the pressure and irritation of fluids ; thus even an unirritat- ing fluid injected up the healthy urethra is prevented from entering the membranous portion by the contraction of the compressor muscle. Still more marked becomes the spasm when an astringent or irritating fluid is injected up an inflamed urethra.