DELIRIUM 339 occurs in patients with congenital or acquired instability of nervous equilibrium. The congenital cases usually have a family history of insanity, epilepsy, or eccentricity, and are themselves often neurotic or hysterical, whi'st the most frequent of the acquired predisposmg causes are chronic alcoholism, sexual excess, or senility. The condition may follow any operation or accident, especially if an operation has been dreaded ; and it is most frequently seen after operations on the genitalia of both males and females. It does not necessarily follow operations on the ovaries and testes more than on the accessory genital organs, although operations on these glands have an adverse psychical effect. During the surgical period when the chronically enlarged prostate was treated by the operation of double orchidectomy, cases of delirium and insanity following were common—as many as 10 per cent., according to one author—but this severe operation was always performed on elderly, often senile men, a condition which probably had more to do with the delirium than the operation itself. A more instructive example was that of a Jewish lad of 19, who immediately after an operation for a varicocele developed acute mania, for which he had ultimately to be confined in an asylum. The delirium may be of a maniacal type, as in the above case, but in elderly people it is more often a low muttering delirium, or in some cases it may be melancholia. It most commonly commences a day or two after the injury or operation, but it may be met with as soon as the 23atient has recovered from the anossthetic. The prognosis of this form of delirium is good, for the condition usually pas?es oft" in a few days, or even in a few hours, though in other cases the delirium may continue and pass on into chronic insanity or dementia. The treatment is similar to that of any other form of delirium, and consists chiefly of good nursing, good hygienic conditions, and sedatives if necessary. 2. Toxic delirium.—This form of delirium, as its name implies, is due to the absorption of poison from a wound. In the majority of cases the j^oison is produced by the infective bacteria, especially the pyogenetic forms, but it may be due to the absorption of certain chemicals, such as iodoform, used in the dressing, or from the adminis- tration of chloroform or morphia. The variety due to absorption of the toxins of the pijogenetic hacleria usually occurs on the third to the fifth day after the operation or accident, and is associated with rise of temperature, general malaise, and other symptoms of septic absorption. The delirium at first is usually of the active, restless type, with increased pulse-rate, constant talking, and sleeplessness, the delirium being most marked at night ;