639 DISEASES OF BONE an infective process localized in superficial .layers of the l ione produces there a local osteitis accompanied by periostitis, a condition that can easily be recognized, and one that presents an appearance similar to tliat to be seen in Plate 57, Fig. 1. Should the infective process become localized in the central portion of the , bone, the resultant central abscess is capable of being located by X-ray examination. For example, in Fig. 2 there is to be seen a central abscess of the upper end of the humerus, the position and extent of which are easy to recognize. Lying in close proximity to the abscess cavity, a number of small fragments of dead bone are to be made out. Chronic osteo-periostitis.—This di.sease presents an exceed- ingly characteristic appearance, as is plainly seen in Plate 57, Fig. 3, wliich shows an example of the diffuse form in the shaft of the tibia. The increase in the compact layers is most marked towards the lower end. In this position the outline of the medullary canal is entirely obliterated. An illustration of the localized form of this disease, also affecting the tibia, is seen in Fig. 4, in which the increase in the com- pact layers is confined to the central portion of the shaft, but without complete obliteration of tlie medullary canal. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF BONE Tuberculous osteitis.—The characteristic appearance produced by this disease when it affects the short bones of the hands and feet is brought out in Plate 58, Fig. 1, where the fifth metacarpal bone is the seat of the disease (tuberculous dactylitis). The thickened periosteum is separated from the shaft, which is markedly irregular in structure and outline. It can be deduced from the radiogram that the wliole of the shaft of this bone is affected, and, in all probability, a sequestrum has formed. Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 50, illustrate the appearances to be expected if the carpal and tarsal bones be aft'ected. In the former figure the epiphyses of the carpal bones are seen to be irregular in outline, their ossification being apparently in advance of that of the other bones of the hand ; there is also irregularity of outline of the bases of the first and second metacarpal bones. In the latter figure the scaphoid is the seat of the disease, and, in the portion indicated, shows obvious irregularity. Tuberculous disease aft'ecting the ends of the long bones com- monly commences on the diaphysial side of the epiphysis (tuber- culous epiphysitis), and can be recognized at a very early stage by X-ray examination. Plate 58, Fig. 2, shows two views at right-angle planes of an abscess of the shaft of the tibia, near its lower end. It is denoted by a circumscribed area of much increased transparency, in the centre of which an area of increased density, representing a