SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 82 in the ireatment of tuberculosis. But tlie results obtained entirely lailed to justify the hopes which had been formed, and the use of the tuberculin was generally abandoned, except for diagnostic purposes. For diagnosis it is still made use of in cattle, and also, to a certain extent, especially on the Continent, in the human subject. It forms a most valuable and reliable diagnostic agent. The diagnosis rests on the temporary rise in temperature of 2° or 3° F. (about 1° C.) occasioned in a tuberculous individual, but not in a normal healthy subject, by the subcutaneous injection of a small quantity of tuberculin (^-1 mg. in man, 30-40 eg. in cattle). Other tuberculins containing more or less of the actual substance of triturated tubercle bacilli were subsequently prepared and investigated by Koch under the names tuberculin-0 and tuberculin-R, and most recently a " New Tuberculin," which consists of an emulsion of dried tubercle bacilli ground up and suspended in equal parts of glycerine and water, and contains 5 mg. of pulverized dry tubercle bacilli per cubic centimetre. Tuberculin-O was obtained by grinding up dried tubercle bacilli from young cultures, washing with water and centrifugalizing. The clear fluid separated by decantation was tuberculin-0. The deposit was again dried, ground, washed, and centrifugaHzed, the fluid was separated by decantation, and the whole process repeated until no deposit remaiued. All the fluids (except the tuberculin-0) were now mixed together, and the mixtme constituted the tuberculin-R. It will thus be seen that " New Tuberculin " contains both tuberculin-0 and tuberculin-R. Tuberculin-R is still employed for the treatment of tuberculosis in man, but Koch advises the employment of the New Tuberculin for this purpose. For diagnostic inoculations, Old Tuberculin—that is to say, Koch's original preparation—should always be used. The investigation of the specific tubercle toxins has not at present led to any very definite conclusions. They appear to be found both in the fluids of culture media and in the substance of the bacilli them- selves. But it is impossible to say how far their presence in the culture fluids is due to the disintegration of bacilli which have died and become Ibroken up in the fluid, rather than to their excretion by the living bacilli, or to processes induced in the medium by the excretion of specific ferments formed by the micro-organisms. Many attempts have been made to produce tubercle antitoxins, and to induce the development of immunity against the tubercle bacillus in animals by injection of a variety of preparations either of the micro-organism itself or of its products. Hitherto these attempts ihave failed to yield any decisive results. ;The method of vaccination with tuberculin is now being made use