EPIDIDYMITIS 830 Treatment.—Best and the application of evaporating lotions, or glycerine and belladonna, to the inflamed parts is, as a rule, all that is called for in these cases. Should an abscess form, an incision to evacuate tlie pus is indicated. EPIDIDYMITIS Next to prostatitis, the most frequent complication of posterior urethritis is an inflammation of the epididymis. This complication occurs in from 10 to 30 per cent, of all cases of urethritis. It is found, as we might expect, far more commonly in hospital than in private practice. There can now be little doubt that epididymitis is due to a direct extension of the gonococcal inflammation of the posterior urethra by means of the vas deferens. In the majority of cases this infection seems to be a pure gonococcal one, though it may also be a mixed infection. The exciting cause of the disorder is to be souglit for in anytliing which may give rise to an exacerbation of the urethritis, and so further its extension to the posterior portion of the urethra. Violent bodily exercise, alcoholic or sexual excess, instrumental examination, irritating injections, are all apt to be followed by the sudden development of epididymitis. Not infrequently the treatment of the urethritis, more especially the injections, is blamed as giving rise to the epididymitis. That this is often unjust was shown by Le Fort, who demonstrated that it was in the untreated cases of urethritis that this comj^lication was most common. Epididymitis most commonly develops during the second, third, or fourth week of a urethritis, that being the most usual time for posterior urethritis to appear ; but it may occur at any period, from the earliest onset of the acute disorder to late in the chronic condition. It attacks either gland with almost equal frequency. In a small j^er- centage of cases (5 per cent.—Castelnau) both glands may be affected simultaneously ; in other cases the testicles are attacked one after the other. Symptoms.—The inflammation generally begins suddenly. The patient experiences pain, without any warning, in one of the testicles, which he finds to be swollen and acutely tender. Both the swelling and the pain rapidly increase. The inflammation is principally con- fined to the epididymis, more especially the globus major, but the gland proper also suffers to a greater or less degree. A serous or sero- purulent fluid, in which gonococci may often be detected, distends the tunica vaginalis. If the inflammation is severe, the scrotal inte- guments become thickened and a^dematous, the small folds obliterated, and the surface red and glistening. There is usually some amount of fever present, and a feeling of nausea and even vomiting may be caused by the severity of the pain. This is most severe when the spermatic