94 APPLIED BACTERIOLOGY In young infants the small size of the parts must be borne in mind, and the needle inserted carefully and not too deeply. 2. Intravenous.—The vein usually chosen is either the median basilic or median cephalic at the bend of the elbow ; sometimes one is driven by circumstances to select a superficial vein of the forearm or hand, or else of the leg. The preparation of the patient is generally quite a simple matter, especially when one is able to attack a vein at the bend of the elbow, for in this situation the sldn is delicate, hairless, and easily cleansed. The patient should be lying in bed or reclining on a couch. The arm, bared to the shoulder, should rest on a clean towel on the bed by the patient's side, or, better still, drawn out at right angles to the body, and the skin thoroughly washed with soap and water. Then the skin over the selected vein is scrubbed with «ther. more ether is poured on and allowed to evaporate, and finally the site for operation is covered with a piece of lint saturated with ether. If some other vein, possibly covered by hairy skin, is chosen, the part must be washed up with ether soap, carefully shaved, the slcin scrubbed up with lysol, and then the lysol thoroughly washed ■off with large volumes of ether, the skin being finally covered with a pad saturated with ether. Now a tourniquet or a bandage is applied tightly round the upper arm, to retard the venous return (but not so tightly as to interfere with the arterial flow), and so cause the vein to become distended and prominent. Next open the phial containing the antiserum and fill the previously sterilized all-glass syringe with serum. The ether pad is now removed from the patient's arm, and after waiting for a few moments to allow the last trace of ether to evaporate, the point of the needle is plunged through the sldn by the side of the vein, then its direction is slightly altered and it is pushed on so that it enters the vein obliquely. The blood in the vein, being under pressure owing to the application of the bandage above, enters the syringe, and the moment it appears in the barrel of the syringe the tourniquet is removed from the arm and the serum slowly and steadily injected into the vein. The patient's blood, being heavier than the serum, sinks down into the barrel of the sjrringe immediately above the nozzle, and practically the whole of the serum contained in the syringe can be delivered into the vein without injecting the blood which first appeared in the barrel. 3. Intraspinal.—Two sterile syringes are required, each of which will fit on to the same needle, which should be of stout rigid steel, 6-7 cm. long for children, and 9 cm. for adults. One syringe should be filled with serum and covered with an inverted glass dish to prevent contamination. The other syringe, with the needle attached, is used ior the actual lumbar puncture. Arrange the patient in bed in the semi-prone position, on which-