278 MILITARY SURGERY antiseptics used for the skin. No examination of a wound by probing is permissible. No operation should be done in the Field Ambulance that can possibly be postponed with safety to the patient. The conditions for surgical work are most unsatisfactory; surgical clean- liness is extremely difficult to attain, even water may be scarce and bad, and fuel for boiling it scanty, and in a mobile unit both personnel and equipment must be limited. To these difficulties must be added the great pressure of work, often involving twenty-four hours or more of continuovis labour after a battle, and the necessity for sending every patient away towards the base within a day or two at longest. The inadvisability of operating in the field ambulance is therefore evident. Fractures must be immobilized for transport. In the larger semi-permanent hospitals on the line of communi- cations or at the base, none of the difficulties of work in the field have to be contended with ; suitable food is obtainable, nurses can be employed. X-rays and all other conveniences for surgical work are available, and treatment can be carried out as in any ordinary hospital. Bullets that have lodged in the body should not be interfered with unless there is some definite indication for removing them, such as pain from pressure on a nerve, interference with the movement of a limb, or a sinus leading to the lodged bullet. They have often been removed unnecessarily. X-rays have superseded all other methods for their diagnosis and localization, and if a lodged bullet must be removed it should be cut down on by the nearest route, as it is very seldom possible to extract it through the wound of entry. Wounds of blood-vessels from rifle bullets are clean-cut notches or perforations with loss of substance, and large vessels are often only partly divided. External hsemorrhage is seldom copious unless the bullet track is of large diameter, or the wounded vessel is fairly near the surface, as blood does not easily find its way along the usual narrow track, which is readily blocked by a slight alteration in the position of the part, or by clot. Interstitial hsemorrhage is common, the blood distending the surrounding tissues and forming a hsematoma, the so-called " diffuse traumatic aneurysm." Shrapnel bullets, pieces of shell, and fragments of bone produce lacerated wounds of vessels, commonly dividing them completely. An artery grazed by a bullet may give way later from necrosis of its wall, especially in a septic wound. The treatment of primary and recurrent haemorrhage follows the crdinary well-known rules. Points to be emphasized are the import- ance of securing a wounded artery at the injured spot and resisting the temptation to tie the main vessel above the wound ; the danger of leaving a tourniquet on. or overlooking its presence ; and the fact that plugging a wound for hsemorrhage is almost certain to result