CHRONIC PROSTATITIS—SPERMATO-CYSTITIS §43 protected by a rubber glove. The prostatic- fluid pressed from tlie gland passes down the urethra, and is collected at the meatus in a watch-glass. A characteristic feature of the prostatic fluid is the presence of long needle- or whetstone-shaped crystals, the so-called sperm crystals of Bottcher or Charcot (Fig. 228). Should the prostate be inflamed, in addition to the normal cellular bodies there will be seen pus cells in large and overwhelming numbers, and j^erhaps micro-organisms will be present also. Treatment.—The treatment for chronic prostatitis is the same as that for chronic posterior ure- thritis, with certain additional mea- sures. First and foremost is the systematic and gentle massage of the prostate twice or thrice a week. Following the massage, injections or instillations of astringent lotions are to be given. This massage of Fig. 228 Sperm crystals. the gland, followed by astringent applications, together with the administration of appropriate vaccines, is the cardinal treatment for chronic prostatitis. Such subsidiary measures as small rectal injections of iodide of potassium, the internal administration of ergot, and the use of ichthyol in the form of suppositories may be employed with advantage.. SPERMATO-CYSTITIS Two forms of the disease are recognized—(1) an acute inflammatory, and (2) a chronic catarrhal spermato-cystitis. 1. Acute Spermato-Cystitis The acute form may develop at any period in the course of a posterior urethritis, the infection spreading along the ejaculatory duct to the mucous membrane lining the seminal vesicle. An acute catarrhal inflammation is set up, and the vesicle becomes distended with a muco-purulent secretion, which, under favourable circumstances, may proceed to the formatiozi of pus—empyema of the vesicle—and the abscess, if unopened, may burst into the urethra, rectum, bladder, or, rarely, into the peritoneal cavity. Generally, however, the catarrhal condition does not proceed to the formation of an abscess, but either resolves completely or, more frequently, passes into the chronic catarrhal condition. Symptoms.—The most typical symptom is the frequent and often