METHODS OF LOCAL ANESTHESIA 68i site of infection prolongs the duration of the anaesthesia. Lastly, various derivatives of cocaine and other drugs have been prepared, of which the best Icnown are tropacocaine, /3-eucaine, and novocaine ; they are undoubtedly less toxic than cocaine, but are not equal to it in their local angesthetic properties. For purposes of injection they have practically displaced cocaine. Local anaesthesia can be produced in the following ways :— L By application of the drug to the surface to be anaesthetized, e.g. the nasal mucous membrane. 2. By infiltration of the area of operation. 3. By injection into or around the nerves going to the part to be operated upon (endoneural or perineural method, sometimes called regional). 4. Lijection into the vessels of the part, more especially into the veins (Bier). 1. Superficial application.—For the production of anres- thesia of the mucous membranes by the simple local application of the drug, cocaine has remained by far the most efficient agent, none of the other preparations having to any extent the same efiect. For the nose and the air-passages a solution of from .5 to 20 per cent, is used, applied by means of a spray, or by swabs of cotton-wool. It is important in this case not to anfesthetize too large an area at one time, lest an idiosyncrasy exist on the part of the patient towards the drug. The urethra and bladder can also be anaesthetized by the introduction of the solution, but here the danger of cocaine-poisoning seems to be greater, so that only very dilute solutions, e.g. 1 to 2 per cent., should be used, or novocaine substituted. In the anaesthetization of mucous membranes for operative procedures, apart from mere examination, it is well to add adrenalin solution for the double purpose of prolongation of the cocaine action and of lessening the risk of toxic effect, wiiile in addition its hfemostatic effect is of great value. The surfaces of granulating wounds can also be rendered insen- sitive by the application of .5 to 10 per cent, cocaine, or 5 per cent, carbolic acid ; while for non-operative purposes the dusting of the wound witli oi'thoforiu is very satisfactory. 2. Infiltration method.—This consists essentially in soak- ing the area to be operated upon with anaesthetizing solution. For small areas it is usually very satisfactory, but in larger areas an attempt is made to combine it with regional anaesthesia by directing an injection into the proximity of the nerves going to the part. AVith regard to the solution to be used, Braun recommends a series containing varying strengths of novocaine and adrenalin—novocaine 0-25-2 per cent., adrenalin (1 in 1,0CX1) .5-200 drops in 100 c.c. of water. He uses the stronger solution when he wishes to infiltrate around the