745 TERTIARY SYPHILIS and desquamated epithelial cells. The pleura is often thickened and adherent about these areas. The surface of the lung is puckered and furrowed. Gumma of the lung may be found in any part of the organ, but is mostly met with in the lower lobes. Softening takes place in the centre of the mass. The parts around may be thickened by proliferation of cells, and around the whole mass there is always a zone of indurated tissue. The degeneration of the centres of the masses leads to liquefaction and evacuation of tlie fluid, which is the cause of much irritation to the bronchi. Cough, dyspnoea, hjemoptysis, and muco-purvilent sputum may all be present, but the tubercle bacillus is absent from the sputum. In all lung lesions beginning in the lower lobes and slowly progressing without fever, sypliilis should be suspected. The bones show osteo-periostitis, exostoses, and gummatous infiltration. The tibia, ulna, clavicle, sternum, and bones of the cranium are especially liable to osteo-periostitis. Ill-defined tumours of various sizes are formed. They are tender and painful, especially towards evening. As a rule, they end in absorption. Sometimes, however, they become inflamed and softened, and burst tln-ougli the adherent and reddened skin, until eventually the superficial part of the bone necroses and separates. At other times neither resolution nor ulceration occurs, but the bony tumour becomes eburnated, and remains as an exostosis. As a rule, these exostoses give little trouble, but if situated on the inner aspect of the cranium they may cause convulsions, epilepsy, or paralysis. Gummata are most frequently found in the cranial or facial bones. Swelling and pain may be followed by considerable bony destruction if secondary infection occur. The vertebra? may be the seat of gunmiatous osteitis (syphilitic spondylitis), the symptoms of which will vary with the region attacked. Thus disease in tlie cervical region may cause paralysis of all four limbs, whilst a lesion in the dorso-lumbar will not affect the upper limbs. Syphilitic disease of a vertebra does not destroy the whole centrum, and therefore does not lead to angular curvature as in tuberculous disease. The joints in syj^hilis are subject to the following tertiary affec- tions : («) Synovitis, subacute or chronic ; (h) gummatous deposits in the synovial membrane ; (c) gummatous changes, primarily in the bones, but ((/) spreading to the joint from the surrounding parts ; (e) ankyloses. Synovitis in the tertiary period is markedly subacute ; there is but slight pain or impairment of movement; the effusion into the cavity takes place slowly and is never very great. A marked feature is the tendency of this afl'ection to become stationary. There is