GONORRHCEA <Si6 epithelial cells to the deeper parts of the urethral mucous membrane, in which situation they are effectually protected from the strongest antiseptics that can be applied. Moreover, the use of these strong antiseptics induces a violent inflammatory reaction, which is likely greatly to aggravate the disorder. For these reasons the use of strong abortive remedies has been to a large extent abandoned. The abortive treatment is most likely to prove successful in tliose rare instances in which the patient seeks medical advice immediately after exposure to infection. As the gonococci are then probably merely lying on the surface of stratified epithelium lining the fossa navicularis, the introduction of a relatively strong antiseptic fluid at this period may reasonably be expected to destroy the specific virus, and so prevent the development of the disease. On the Conti- nent this prophylactic treatment has been largely adopted, and appears to have a considerable measure of success. For this purpose a few drops of an antiseptic, such as a 1 per cent, solution of nitrate of silver or albargin, a 10 to 20 per cent, solution of protargol, or 1-1,000 of oxycyanide of mercury, are introduced into the meatus before and immediately after exposure to infection. Although, as a rule, we may with advantage at once apply local remedies in the acute stage of the disorder, there are two conditions which contra-indicate this treatment. The first of these is an excep- tionally acute inflammation, as evidenced by much oedema of the penis and prepuce, excessive chordee, and blood-stained secretion. The other is the presence of a complication such as epididymitis. In such circumstances all local applications must be postponed until the more acute symptoms have subsided. I usually commence the treatment by ordering the injection of J per cent, protargol ^ solution three times a day, the fluid to be retained in the urethra four minutes. The effect of this treatment is generally very marked : tlie purulent discharge rapidly diminishes, and the pain and priapism disappear. When these effects are secured, the strength, duration, and frequency of the injections may be gradually increased. At the end of the third day the strength of the fluid may be raised to J per cent, solution, at the end of the week to |- per cent., and on the tenth day to 1 per cent. At the same time the injections are given more frequently—four, five, or six times a day—and tlie fluid retained for five minutes or longer. This is all contingent upon the injections being well borne, causing neither smarting nor discomfort,^ and on the inflammatory symptoms declining. 1 The protargol solutions should be freshly made with cold distilled water, as heat decomposes the compound. 2 If the urethra is very sensitive, antipyrin or nitrate of novocain to the extent of 3 per cent, may be added with advantage to the protargol solution.