GANGRENE 222 to patients who are usually past active work and can get about quite well enougli with the shorter stump. Therefore the hest loorking rule for the treatment of senile gangrene is early amputation above the knee. Of late years, since the surgery of the blood-vessels has made such enormous strides, a conservative method of treatment for incipient or actual senile gangrene by arterio-venous anastomosis has been de- veloped, and doubtless in the course of time will become an estab- lished and successful procedure. Cases have been reported by C. A. Ballance, D. J. Armour, Jaboulay, and others, in some of which a measure of success has been obtained. The operation consists in making an axial anastomosis between the femoral artery and femoral vein in Hunter's canal, and aims at arresting the progress of the gangrene by conveying arterial blood to the tissues of the leg through the healthy veins, in order that the nutrition of the limb may be suffi- ciently good to allow of natural separation of the dead part, or permit an amputation at a very short distance above it. In Ballance's case "the immediate effects were striking; arterial blood was transmitted by way of the veins to the foot, the warmth of the foot was increased, the advance of the gangrene (obvious before the operation) was stayed, a definite line of demarcation appeared on the inner three toes, and the skin proximal to the line of demarcation again became sensitive, so that light touches were readily located." Death took place four months later from mesenteric thrombosis. During the interval no extension of the gangrene had occurred, and the affected toes had nearly separated from the foot. The result of the operation in this case appears to justify the hope already expressed, that in time early amputation at a high level for senile gangrene will not be such an urgent necessity as it is at present. Gangrene due to arteritis obliterans, sometimes called " pre-senile gangrene," is a form of dry gangrene occurring in persons between the ages of 20 and 50. It is essentially due to changes which commence in the small vessels and gradually spread upwards, leading to obliteration of the arteries and thickening of the intima of the veins. The process is one of hyperplastic endarteritis, followed by thrombosis, and though more frequently attacking the arteries of the lower extremity, it may affect those of the upper limb alone, or commence simultaneously in both. According to Weiss, the gangrene is ultimately due to thrombosis induced by the sclerotic changes in the vessels, while Wulff regards abnormal vasomotor con- striction, analogous to Raynaud's disease, as the determining factor, and bases his hypothesis on the fact that the narrowing of the vessels in many cases has been due, not to thickening of the intima, but to hypertrophy of the muscular coat. Though in all probability a sequel of syphilis, this form of endarteritis has also been ascribed to the