62 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY Marmier isolated what lie regarded as the anthrax toxin from glycerine-peptone-water cultures of the bacillus grown at 20° C, and claimed that by its injection into animals in appropriate doses a development of immunity could be evoked and antitoxin produced. According to Sobernheim, however, the bulk of evidence is un- favourable to these conclusions, and it must be admitted that the pathology of anthrax intoxication is at present net at all clearly understood. The disease is one which arises epidemically among cattle, sheep, and horses, and in some countries it is probably always endemic. In man the infection is almost invariably obtained either from the carcases, the hides, or the wool and hair of animals which have died of the disease. It appears in various forms, of which the commonest is the so-called malignant pustule, but it may assume a pulmonary form (wool-sorters' disease) due to infection of the respiratory passages, or even give rise to intestinal infection. A number of intestinal cases have been noted among workers with horse-hair, who were accustomed to bite off the ends of the hair with wliich they worked. In these, as in the great majority of cases, the infection is transmitted by the dried spores. Of the ordinary laboratory animals, rabbits, guinea-pigs, and particularly mice are susceptible to anthrax. A mouse will die within a day or two if inoculated with only the minutest dose of a virulent strain, and is therefore the animal commonly employed for diagnostic purposes. Post-mortem, there is a hsemorrhagic oedema at the site of inoculation, a greatly enlarged and hypersemic spleen crowded with bacilli, and a large number of bacilli in the blood and the other organs. As a rule the bacteriological diagnosis of a local infection with anthrax in n:an is relatively easy. In the malignant pustule, which has a somewhat characteristic appearance, the bacillus will be found, frequently in pure culture, in the ring of vesicles which surrounds the central slough. In the pneumonic form of the disease the bacilli will easily be identified and cultivated from the sputum, which may be directly inoculated into a mouse. If there be pleurisy associated with the condition the pleural fluid will be found to contain long threads of the bacilli. In the intestinal form the diagnosis is more difficult, but as a rule the organism can be isolated from the fseces. The blood should always be most carefully examined, since ex- perience has shown that the prognosis in anthrax remains favouraKe so long as the bacilli cannot be detected in the blood. If, on the other hand, a condition of septicsemia has supervened, and the bacilli are present in the circulation, the prognosis becomes extremely bad. The introduction of the treatment of anthrax with antitoxic serum