48o TUMOURS the treatment. The chief danger seems to be the injection of too large an initial dose into a vascular tumour. At the date of his paper read before the Royal Society of Medicine in 1909, Coley had had 52 cases of inoperable sarcoma successfully treated by the mixed toxins, the patients remaining well for periods ranging between three and a quarter and sixteen years, full records of many of the cases being given in the paper. The evidence of the value of the treatment in Coley's hands seems to be conclusive, and the disappointing results which have hitherto been obtained in this country may perhaps in part be explained by improper preparation of the fluid, and an unwillingness on the part of surgeons to continue a treatment which is attended with much discomfort to the patient. At the present day the treatment of malignant growths by X-rays and radium must still be considered to be in the experimental stage, and whilst it is certain that the growth of many tumours is modified in a very striking manner by these agents, great caution is necessary in drawing conclusions as to their value in this branch of therapeutics. With the single exception of rodent ulcer, the evidence at present does not justify the employment of these means as an alternative to removal of the disease by operation ; and thus, in view of the apparently hopeless nature of the cases in which X-rays and radium are employed, the results cannot in any sense be fairly contrasted with those obtained by operation in early cases. As a prophylactic measure it is possible that these agents may prove of service in lessen- ing the risk of recurrence after operation by destroying any tumour cells which may have escaped removal. In using X-rays a full dose at intervals has, on the whole, appeared to yield the most encouraging results. In the employment of radium the method most commonly adopted is to apply the bromide contained within a glass tube to various parts of the surface of the growth, or even to insert the tube into the sub- stance of the growth by means of an incision or a suitable trocar and cannula. The radium salt has also been used in various forms of apparatus in which it is spread out by means of a suitable varnish. Of the difEerent rays given out by radium—the «, ft, and y rays— the y rays and the more penetrating of the /3 rays are those chiefly employed for therapeutic purposes ; and in order to filter off the less penetrating rays, and thus protect the superficial tissues and allow the more penetrating rays to reach the deeper parts, it is usual, fol- lowing the method of Wickham and Dominici, to interpose varying thicknesses of lead or platinum as a screen between the radium and the part to which it is being applied. Except in the case of some forms of superficial growths of low malignancy, especially rodent ulcer, the evidence of the actual cure of