BURNS AND SCALDS 302 the high temperatiu'e associated with an electric discharge, and the small total amount of heat involved in the process. The results of a lightning-stroke may be manifold, and vary in the most extraordinary manner. One individual may have his clothes stripped from oil his back, or may be killed and mutilated, whilst a friend standing next to him escapes without suflering the slightest in- convenience. The lesions occasioned by lightning include wounds of almost every description, fractures wliich may be simple or compound, and burns of varying shape and depth. As far as the burns are con- cerned, there is a peculiar condition occasionally seen, known as arborescent markings, which requires mention. Delicate-branching, almost fern-like patterns are seen. They do not follow the lines of lymphatics or superficial blood-vessels, as was at one time suggested. In addition to these lesions, various subjective phenomena are some- times observed, such as blindness, deafness, various paralyses, loss of memory, etc. The burns produced may at times be noted to take the form of metallic objects carried by the individual, the objects themselves being often fused. In this connexion it may be observed that if certain metallic articles, such as knives, carried by a person found dead, are on investigation discovered to be magnetized, a clue is at once given to the cause of death, should this at first sight not be obvious. It was formerly asserted that rigor mortis did not usually occur, but it is now known that it does so invariably, the explanation being that often it both appears and disappears very quickly and is, there- fore, perhaps not present when the body is first found. Putrefaction sets in early. The injuries produced by powerful electric currents possess several peculiarities requiring mention. The lesions are most evident at the points of exit and entrance. The superficial degrees are painless, and aseptic, while heahng is very slow. In the severer degrees there is much shock ; and pain, practically absent during the first twenty- four to thirty-six hours, later becomes very severe. A form of slow,, moist gangrene sets in, and the sloughing process tends to spread. Since these burns are often deep, sloughing is likely to be asso- ciated with secondary haemorrhage from large vessels. Besides the local injuries there are to be observed signs of shock, with extreme pallor, stertorous breathing, and insensibility. The treatment of injuries produced by lightning or electrical currents consists in combating shock and keeping the burnt parts aseptic. The complications are treated on general principles. When shock is overcome the prognosis is usually good. As a rule, the paralyses mentioned above eventually disappear, but complete restoration may be slow.