641 TUMOURS OF BONE lucent material, and therefore appears eroded and irregular in outline. As a whole, it is irregular in structure and diminished in density; but no evidence of periostitis can be detected. At first sight a radiogram of such a case gives the impression of want of detail and poor quality. Plate 60, Fig. 2, is an example of this disease ai?ect- ing the lower end of the femur in the position indicated. Fig. 3 is a more obvious case, in which the disease has attacked the upper end of the humerus. When spontaneous fracture has taken place this disease is capable of easier radiographic recognition. Thus, in Plate 61, Fig. 1, the abnormal relation of neck and shaft of the femur, in a case in which the disease has attacked the upper end of the shaft, removes any dou]:)t as to its na-turc. Secondary involvement of bone by carcinoma,— Whenever carcinomatous tissue infiltrates bone it entirely replaces the normal dense bone by translucent material. Spontaneous fracture facilitates its recognition, but the absence of any periostitis and the extensive and irregular replacement of normal dense bone are very characteristic. Plate 61, Fig. 2, is an example of secondary deposit of carcinoma in the upper end of the femur and adjacent pelvic bones, associated with spontaneous fracture. The head and neck of the femur have practically disappeared. Rickets.—Long bones affected with rickets show increased translucency, with great iiTegularity of structure. Their diaphyses, where such changes are most obvious, appear to be expanded, and overlap the epiphyses to a much greater extent than normal ; the epiphyses themselves are unduly translucent, irregular in structure, and indistinct in outline. Curvatures, if present, are easily recognized and their extent estimated. Plate 61, Fig. 3, is the radiogram of a case of genu valgum showing rachitic changes in the lower ends of both femora. Syphilis.—The tertiary manifestation of this disease affecting bone can be recognized by X-ray examination. Gummata produce a marked local reduction in the normal density of bone, and are associated with osteo-periostitis. Diffuse syphilitic inflammation of the long bones produces an appearance not unlike that caused by sarcoma, but the periosteum is separated and irregular in outline, and there is no margin of encroachment as in sarcoma, the whole of the bone participating in the increase in bulk. Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 62, are examples of inflamma- tion of the radius and humerus caused by syphilis. DEFORMITIES Cervical rib.—The presence of a supernumerary rib or ribs can be easily demonstrated radiographically, for, although such structures may be mainly composed of cartilage, yet ossification usually takes 2 p