SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 4 which it may be difficult to assign to the one class or the other, and thus has arisen the use of such terms as cocco-bacillus (e.g. B. pro- digiosus) and the like. Moreover, in each group itself considerable diversity of form appears. Thus, among the cocci we may note well- rounded forms like staphylococci, bean-shaped bodies like the gono- coccus, and lanceolate organisms such as the pneumococcus. Among the rods still greater diversity is found. They may be quite straight in outline as is the B. tetani, or be slightly bent as is the bacillus of tuberculosis ; they may have sharply cut ends like B. anthracis, or be rounded off like the B. suhtilis ; and they may be irregular, swollen at the ends, or even club-shaped, as, for example, is frequently the case -^dth the B. diphfherice. 2. AERANGEMENT IN SPACE The arrangement of bacteria in space depends largely on their mode of growth and manner of multiplying by the division of one organism into two new independent individuals (see p. 7), and on the degree of adhesion which remains between the new individuals thus formed. Among the cocci, division may occur in one direction only, in two directions mutually at right angles, in three directions at right angles to each other, or in an indefinite number of directions, and more or less adhesion may persist between the new elements, thus giving rise to single elements, diplococci, streptococci, sarcinfe, staphylococci, and the like. Similarly, among the rods, where division only occurs in a direction at right angles to the long axis, varying degrees of adhesion among the individual bacteria give rise to an arrangement as either separate organisms, paired forms, or not infrequently chains. Among the curved rods very similar appearances are found. The filamentous forms may present, in addition to the ordinary method of division or in place of it, the phenomenon of " branching " or bifurcation, but into this it is not necessary to enter here. 3. CLASSIFICATION An adequate classification of bacteria, on the basis of morphology, physiology, or life history, is at present impossible ; it must suffice therefore to group them under headings indicative of their form and arrangement, which shall serve for their convenient identification. Such a provision il classification, based on that of Cohn, is the following^ in which it must be clearly understood that the description " single organisms," " pairs," " chains," and so on, cannot be strictly applied, but refers only to the general appearance presented by a microscopic film. Thus, among diplococci many single organisms will be found ; among the staphylococci, numerous single individuals and perhaps many pairs, and similarly in other instances.