758 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS chloride enjoys the preference in England. The proto-iodide is the more apt to cause salivation, possibly on account of the larger dose required to produce its effects. AVomen show less buccal tolerance of the proto-iodide than men. For men a daily dose of f gr. is inofiensive, and in nine cases out of ten 1| gr. is tolerated without evil effect if buccal hygiene is attended to. Sometimes a daily dose of as much as 3 gr. can be taken. Women, however, can only take an average daily dose of 1 gr. of the proto-iodide. The action on the digestive organs of the two preparations under consideration presents notable differences. In therapeutic doses sublimate aft'ects the stomach rather than the intestine; though rarely producing diarrhoea, even in moderate doses, it may cause gastric cramps, pains, and uncomfortable sensations, which may be of such severity as to necessitate intermission of the treatment. Women suffer so much more frequently from this " sublimate gas- tralgia " that it is a question whether they should not always be treated with some other preparation. To secure tolerance by the stomach, care should be taken not to prescribe sublimate in too large doses or for too long a period. I find it necessary to make it a rule never to prescribe the perchloride for more than a month at a time. The proto-iodide seldom or never affects the stomach, but in almost every case at first causes slight attacks of colic and " pre- monitory " diarrhoea, which, however, soon pass off. Some patients have no further trouble during a long course of this salt, whereas others are liable to sudden attacks of diarrhoea varying in intensity from the slight and temporary to the severe, dysenteric, and long- standing. Sublimate, on the other hand, rarely affects the intes- tine or causes diarrhoea. Stomatitis is common with the proto-iodide, and but slight with sublimate. Both the sublimate and the proto-iodide are excellent remedies. It may be affirmed that usually the proto-iodide is more suitable and more active in the early secondary stage, both because sublimate is apt to cause slow disappearance and to permit reproduction of the early secondary lesions, and because the proto-iodide can be adminis- tered for a larger period without harm. On the other hand, sublimate is preferable in the later stages on account of its greater influence over the later secondary and tertiary lesions and of its better com- .bination Avith potassium iodide. In patients with bad teeth, sub- limate, as the drug less likely to cause salivation, should be chosen ; whereas in those already the subjects of dyspepsia the proto-iodide is the better. Sublimate may be prescribed in the form of van Swieten's liquor (p. 757), of Dupuytren's pill (or, better, Fournier's modification of it—