51 STAPHYLOCOCCI The human subject is even more susceptible to the pathogenetic action of staphylococci than are most animals. Even if the micro- organism be merely rubbed into the skin a series of boils or local abscesses may be produced. It is indeed the commonest causal agent of cutaneous inflammations, especially those which are associated with suppuration, and it is very frequently met with in acute osteo-myelitis, in acute abscesses in anv situation, and in ulceration of the cardiac valves. This sta^jhylococcus may give rise to general infection and lead to a condition of pytemia, though fortunately this result is relatively uncommon considering the enormous frequency of local inflammatory processes in which this organism is the causal agent. While the attempt to obtain a satisfactory antitoxin for the treat- ment of staphylococcal infection has at present yielded no results of practical value, the use of staphylococcus vaccine in local infection, and especially in cutaneous suppurations, appears in many cases to have l)een attended with remark'able success. Staphylococcus pyogenes albus. — This organism is closely similar to the Staphylococcus fyogenes aureus. It is distin- guishable from the latter neither by its biological characters, nor by its distribution, nor even by its pathogenetic action, but only by its lack of pigmentation, and possibly also at times by its failure to produce liquefaction of gelatin. On solid culture media it presents itself as an opaque white slimy growth. Staphylococcus epidermidis albus (Welch). — This staphylococcus is commonly present on the human skin. It is only very slightly virulent, and liquefies gelatin either very slowly or not at all. It is believed to be the usual causal agent in producing small stitch abscesses. Not improbably it is merely an attenuated form of the ordinary white sta])livlococcus pyogenes. Staphylococcus pyogenes citreus. — Indistinguishable from the variety aureus except by its lemon-yellow pigmentation. It is only seldom found, but a non-virulent saprophvtic organism often met with—the jMicrococcus flavus—may easily be mistaken for it. This organism is, however, distinguished from the staphylococcus citreus by the fact that it does not coagulate milk, and onh' liquefies gelatin very slowly. Staphylococcus cereus albus and Staphylococcus cereus flavus.—These are n.uch less common and less virulent than the other members of the group. Thev are distinguished by the wax-like growth which they produce, and by the fact (hat they do not liquefy gelatin. They may be met with along with other staphylococci in suppurative conditions, but they are probably only present in these cases as saj^rophytes.