LOCAL TREATMENT OF BURNS 299 Avrung out of this solution and applied all over the burnt areas, which are then covered with antiseptic wool and bandaged. A point to be insisted on is that no waterproof covering of any kind should be used. The dressing of burns with poultices or any form of fomentation is a pernicious practice. Dryness of the dressings should be aimed at, for this hinders the rapid multiplication of organisms and prevents the dressings from being so soon soaked with discharge, and thus obviates the necessity for frequently changing the dressings, a process always painful to the patient. Picric acid seems to have, in some cases at any rate, a fairly marked action in relieving pain. It possesses also the property of encourag- ing and assisting the growth of yoimg epithelium, and for this reason it should not only be used as a first dressing, but should be continued well on to the commencement of the third stage. Those who decry the value of picric acid as a burn-dressing allege that its use is frequently followed by poisoning, which is manifested by such symptoms as vomit- ing, diarrhoea, dark-coloured urine, yellow vision, and coma. In several hundred cases under my observation treated with picric acid no evil effects have been observed to follow its use. We owe the introduction of the picric-acid method to the writings of Thiery and other French surgeons. This substance is conveniently employed for burns of the first and second degrees, but its principal use is for those of the third and fourth degrees. It is nowadays hardly necessary to men- tion that carron oil, or any preparation containing oil or grease, should find no place as a primary dressing in the treatment of burns or scalds. The use of oil, combined with antiseptics such as carbolic oil, defeats its own object, for the oil prevents ready ionization of the antiseptic ; and it is upon the power of free ionization that its germicidal action depends. Moreover, carbolic oil is a fruitful source of carboluria, though it does not apparently produce carbolic gangrene. Iodoform used to be largely used, but there is no little danger of the production of symptoms of poisoning when it is applied to extensive areas. The method of treating burns by continuous immersion in a warm bath has much to recommend it, though in practice it is not always easy to carry out. Where only the limbs are burnt it is, of course, much more conveniently used, and is very satisfactory. After the sloughs have separated, large and usually septic ulcers remain for treatment. The surgeon's ingenuity is often taxed to find an application suitable for a particular change of dressing will often prove beneficial. Among recent preparations, sorbefacin has proved of considerable service in many cases ; it seems to have a favourable influence in promoting the growth of epithelium. Boric ointment is best used at a half or cjuarter the strength of the