CHRONIC ABSCESS 197 more apt, as a rule, to give rise to chronic suppurations. Therefore the nature of the infecting agent should be ascertained at once, and dealt with accordingly. Some very serious types of suppuration may be described as subacute, notably those due to B. mallei, B. typhosus, B. tuberculosis, and the fungi which are the cause of actinomycosis. CHRONIC ABSCESS The term chronic abscess is applied to suppuration slowly provoked in a cavity of its own formation, and of whicli the excitant may be localized, or slowly infiltrating the tissues around it. Etiology.—It is so common to find the B. tuberculosis in slow sujipurating processes that chronic abscess is almost always assumed to be a tuberculous abscess, and this, too, in spite of the fact tliat tuberculous abscesses are really degenerations of chronic inflammatory tissue rather than a true suppurative process. When true supjiuration accompanies tuberculous conditions it is due to a mixed infection. It must be realized that chronic suppuration, especially in bones, may be caused by the staphylococcus, and that slow suppuration can be induced by the actinomyces, B. tijpJiosus, and even B. ^nallei (glanders). The pathology of these cases, excluding those that are tuber- culous, is practically identical with a comparatively slow-forming, acute, circumscribed abscess. Pathology of tuberculous degeneration.—Apart from tlie all-important presence of the B. tuhcrculosis, tuberculous abscesses have characteristic microscopical appearances. The cells observed in true chronic infective processes are epithelioid cells, lymphocytes, giant cells, spindle cells, plasma cells, and even mast cells in small number. In tuberculosis these cells are arranged characteristically in two ways wliich depend ujion whether B. tuhcr- culosis attacks the tissues (a) by the formation of tubercles, or (6) by infiltration. (a) In tubercle-formation the central cell of a tubercle is commonly a giant cell, whose branches can be traced as a fine network among the surrounding cells, which are epithelioid cells arranged in two or more layers. The outer margin of these layers is abrupt, and is in turn surrounded by lymphoc}i:es. The tubercle may be completed by an external membrane composed of spindle cells in cases where the disease is not spreading rapidly. The central cell of a tubercle is not always a giant cell ; very often, indeed, the centre is occupied by epithelioid cells. No importance can be attached to this fact for purposes of prognosis. The B. tuberculosis is to be sought in and among the epithelioid cells, where it is usually found ; it is also com- monly seen in the giant cell, should that cell be present.