TREATMENT OF CHANCRE 727 healing depends very much on the constitutional treatment, but even in untreated cases it will often ensue spontaneously. Ulcera- tion of a chancre seldom leaves any deformity other than the scar, owing to the fact that the destruction of tissue is at the expense of the infiltration ; but deformity will, of course, result from phagedsena. Chancres in certain positions may give rise to grave symptoms. For instance, lingual or tonsillar sores may lead to difficulty in mas- tication and swallowing, ocular lesions to severe ophthalmia, or urethral cliancres to stricture. Relation of the character of the chancre to the subsequent progress of the disease.—What relation, if any, exists between the source of contagion and character of the chancre, on the one hand, and the progress of the disease, on the other ? The following deductions appear to be justified :— 1. To a certain extent I agree with the view that, the severity of the constitutional disease has a relation to the character of the primary chancre—e.g. an ulcerating sore is more often the prelude to a severer form of eruption than is an ordinary dry papule. 2. I also agree with the belief that the more marked and per- sistent the induration the more likely are sclerotic lesions to follow. 3. A short primary or secondary incubation stage denotes the probability of a severe attack. 4. Hallopeau maintains that chancres situated on the prepuce, or vulva, or at the anus, more often lead to severe symptoms than those found elsewhere. In my experience, the worst case of syphilis seen followed an extragenital chancre. 5. It is impossible to predict the form of chancre that Avill result from a given source of infection. Treatment of the site of inoculation.—Metchnikoff, as the result of his experiments on the destructibility of the syphilitic poison, recommends an endeavour to prevent infection by destroying *S'. pallida in situ, by thoroughly rubbing into the point of inoculation an ointment composed of calomel grm. x, lanoline and vaseline grm. XXX. The success of many well-controlled experiments on monkeys, and of one on a student w'ho submitted to inoculation, satisfied Metchnikoff that adoption of this measure within eighteen hours of inoculation is a powerful safeguard against infection. Local treatment of the chancre.—Efforts to abort syphilis by the destruction of the primary lesion, by excision, actual cautery, or chemical agents, have failed either to relieve the local symp- toms or to prevent systemic infection. Although for a short period the virus is probably local in its distribution, the patient rarely, if ever, submits himself to treatment, or is diagnosed, early enough to ensure that the poison has not already become generalized. Even