X-RAY EXAMINATION 650 tracliea is pressed upon by tumours situated in tlie neck, its X-ray shadow will be distorted, and thus the position and extent of the stricture can be ascertained. Such distortion of the tracheal streak can be seen in Plate 66, Fig. 1, in which a mediastinal tumour extending into the neck presses upon the trachea. DISEASES OF THE NOSE AND ACCESSORY SINUSES Only by recent investigation has the fact been discovered that X-ray shadows of the frontal sinus and the antrum of Highmore can be obtained. To procure such shadows it is necessary that the position of the source of the X-rays and the head should be specially arranged. In the recumbent position the head is placed so that the line of the forehead almost makes an angle of 30° with the horizontal. The head having been secured in this position, the X-ray tube is centred directly opposite the nasal process of the frontal bone, the object of this position being to remove the occipital portion of the skull, which is of great density, from the line of view. The normal appearance of the frontal and antral sinuses, secured in the manner described, is illustrated in Plate 68, Fig. 4, the sinuses being represented by areas of increased translucency {see the arrows). Should fluid displace the air in such a sinus, it becomes indefinite in outline and difficult to difierentiate from the surrounding bones on account of increased density. Plate 68, Fig. 3, is that of a case in which the frontal sinus on one side is indistinct in outline and of increased density, indicating the presence of pus. The advantages of tliis method of examination are obvious: the frontal origin of an empyema of the antrum is easily ascertained ; in cases of supra-orbital neuralgia the origin of the pain may be located in the frontal sinus. A lateral view of the frontal region is also possible, and by this means the extent of the sinus in this plane may be made out. In cases in which the postero- anterior view reveals no outline of the sinuses, and so suggests the presence of a double empyema, it is necessary, in order to ascer- tain whether sinuses really exist, to secure a view in the lateral direction. Owing to neglect of this precaution a diagnosis of double empyema might be arrived at, the real reason of the obliteration lying in the fact that the sinuses are undeveloped. Demonstration of the sphenoidal and other sinuses of the bones of the face as well as of the mastoid cells is possible by means of the X-rays. The position in which the view is best secured, and the value of any observation that may be made in disease of these parts, are at the present time not quite clear.