305 HEMORRHAGE Natural arrest of haemorrhage.—The natural arrest of lisemorrhage is best studied in bleeding occurring from a moderate- sized artery, althougli the process is essentially similar in veins and capillaries. It can be divided into two stages—temforarij arrest and permanent arrest. Temporary arrest is brought about by the coagulation of blood forming a plug in the mouth of the cut vessel, but this process is heljjed by several factors. When an artery is cut across, the middle muscular coat contracts and so diminishes the lumen of the vessel and checks the escape of blood. At the same time the middle and in- ternal coats retract inside the external coat, and s :> further diminish the lumen of the vessel. The retraction is most marked in the internal coat, which, owing to the elastic recoil of Henle's membrane, becomes curled up inside the vessel, and may completely occlude it. Tliis com- bination of contraction and retraction of the walls of the vessel is sufficient in some cases immediately to arrest haemorrhage, even from a large artery, such as the popHteal, if it be torn across and not cut. The change from fibrinogen to fibrin first takes place outside tlie blood-vessel, forming an external clot and diminishing the flow by mechanical pressure. As the flow becomes progressively less, coagula- tion occurs in the mouth of the vessel, and gradually invades the lumen, forming an internal clot which eft'ectually arrests the flow. The formation of this clot in the mouth of the vessel is aided not only by the local conditions described above, but also by general condi- tions which are important and influence the treatment of haemorrhage. As the blood escapes from the vessels and its total cjuantity in the body diminishes, there tends to be a fall in the blood 25ressure. This tendency to fall is counteracted by increased frequency and force of the heart's beat and by contraction of the blood-vessels generally, so that a large loss of blood can occur without materially affecting the general blood pressure. But as the loss continues the heart beats less and less forcibly, the blood-vessels dilate, and the blood pressure begins to fall, with a corresponding diminution in the force and quan- tity of the flow from the damaged vessel. This change favours coagulation in the vessel and helps to control the haemorrhage ; there- fore the larger the quantity of blood lost the greater the tendency to natural arrest. It follows that stimulants wliich increase the force of the heart's beat and raise the blood pressure shoidd never be given in cases of haemorrhage until all the bleeding has been securely stopped. With the escape of blood from the blood-vessels a second pheno- menon occurs which also aids the coagulation. The number of white corpuscles increases, and there is a flow of lymph from the lymphatic u