TREATMENT OF SHOCK 331 very valuable in the treatment of shock, especially if it be due to severe crushing accidents, or to burns or scalds. (3) Warmth is as valuable in the treatment of shock as in its prevention. The patient should be wrapped in warm blankets and surrounded by hot-water bottles in the bed, so that the body tem- perature is maintained by external means. At the same time, it is easy to overdo the application of heat, for too great warmth will dilate the arterioles, producing severe sweating and a further drop in the blood pressure. Hot-water bottles should not be placed too near the patient, especially if he is under the influence of an anjesthetic or narcotic, otherwise burning may result. (4) Posture.—The patient's bed should be raised at the foot, so that the head is the lowest part of the body. This position will render it easy for the blood to reach the brain, and will tend to keep the exhausted nerve centres supplied with blood. (5) Stimulants.—When it was considered that shock was largely due to weakness of the heart's action, stimulants, such as alcohol, strychnia, and caffeine, were very largely used in its treatment ; but, although many sm'geons still advocate their use, experimental and clinical research has of recent years thrown great doubt on their value in all conditions of shock and has even led to a widely- held opinion that in the severer forms they are harmful. Strychnia, which has been most largely used, mainly raises the blood pressure by stimulating the centres in the medulla, and these in a condition of shock are inhibited or exhausted by over-stimulation. Strychnia in the lesser degrees of shock will undoubtedly raise the blood pressure for a time, so that the pidse improves, the heart beats more forcibly, and the peripheral vessels become constricted ; but the effect is tem- porary and is followed by a greater depression than before owing to the further exhaustion of the centres by the stimulation. Repeated injection is followed by less and less effect till none at all is produced, and the centres are still further depressed with increase in the condi- tion of shock. Strychnia will certainly be more useful in collapse with inhibition than in shock with exhaustion; but its value is problematical in both conditions and its harm certain. The hypo- dermic injection of strychnia in severe cases of shock is not without danger of strychnia-poisoning, as the drug may accumulate owing to the depressed circulation, and as the condition of shock passes oft' may be swept into the circulation and produce its toxic effect. The administration of alcohol will produce a temporary rise of blood pressure by its stimulating action both on the heart and on the central nervous system ; but it also causes peripheral vaso-dilatation with a corresponding fall in the blood pressure. The stimulating effects are quite transient, and leave behind an increased dej)ression.