821 PATHOLOGY—SYMPTOMS CHRONIC URETHRITIS Pathology. — There is naturally no sharp line to be drawn between the morbid processes observable in the acute and the chronic forms of this disease, the one form merging imjjerceptibly into the other. The inflammation subsides, and, losing the general, diffuse distribution of the acute stage, lingers only in more or less circum- scribed areas. Here, in consequence of the prolonged irritation from the gonococci, there is induced a proliferation of the subepithelial tissue cells, forming the so-called small-celled infiltration. This pro- liferation of the connective-tissue cells is always a well-marked feature in the chronic stage, but a certain degree of proliferation is present even in acute cases. The areas of small-celled" infiltration are generally localized in small foci round or in the neighbourhood of the lacunar and ducts of the mucous glands. They are often extremely vascular, and present a granular appearance. The epithelium beneath which they are developed may remain either unchanged or but slightly tt'dematous and loosened. Erosions or ulcerations are decidedly rare. After a time spindle-shaped con- nective-tissue cells, and, later, definite fibres of connective tissue, are developed in the areas of infiltration. Their soft character is lost, and the areas gradually become converted into dense fibrous or scar tissue. At the same time the epithelium lying over the areas also undergoes a metaplasia, gradually losing its cylindrical form and assuming a stratified, squamous type. As a rule, the inflammation does not extend beyond the subepithelial tissue, the deeper structures being imaffected. When, however, the j^eriurethral tissues do become involved, the subsequent cicatricial contraction causes a diminution in the calibre of the urethra, and so gives rise to the formation of a stricture. Symptoms.—When the inflammation is limited to the mucous membrane, that is to say, has not afliected the submucous tissue, it causes but little inconvenience to the patient. There is usually a complete absence of pain on micturition, though sometimes a slight irritation is felt at the end of the penis. The most noticeable symptom is the well-known bead of purulent secretion which is found at the meatus on waldng in the morning, and is aptly calletl the " bon-jour drop." The secretion is so slight that during the day, when the urethra is frequently irrigated by the stream of urine, the drop of pus may not be seen, though the lips of the meat.us may stick together. If the urethritis be fairly recent, the first portion of urine will be turbid from mucus, and will show the presence of urethral threads. If the process be of long standing and free from any exacerbation, the urine will be quite clear and free from mucus, but will show the threads