246 WOUNDS AND WOUND TREATMENT treating their walls by gentle curettage, by applications of iodine, iodoform, or other antiseptic, and by careful closure of the incision. This process may need to be repeated, but it is greatly preferable to the long-continued drainage which was former^ employed. Drainage may be accomplished by the agency of strands of salmon- gut, horsehair, or similar material in the case of small wounds in which but little effusion is expected, or in larger collections by the use of tubes of indiarubber, glass, celluloid, or metal, in which lateral holes or splits have been made. Gauze wicks are sometimes employed, either alone or as a central strip down the lumen of the drainage-tube, with a view to assisting the removal of fluid by capillary suction. Care, however, must be taken to ensure by loose packing that they act as wicks and not as plugs. A useful variety is the cigarette drain, which consists of alter- nating layers of gauze and dental rubber or protective. It is made by laying a square of gauze upon a square of protective and then loosely rolling them together in the manner of making a cigarette. vi. Rest.—Rest, both of the patient and of the affected part, by posture, splints, accurate suturing and bandaging, etc., is obviously necessary. vii. Maintenance of the general health must also receive attention. Needles, etc., in the Tissues The localization and removal of sharp-pointed bodies, such as needles, from the tissues may be a matter of ease. Frequently, however, even with the aid of the X-rays, it involves tedious and extensive dissection, often amidst important structures ; for example, in the palm of the hand. Prolonged attempts, therefore, should not be made without careful radiographic localization. In view of the fact that a needle may travel through a comparatively great distance in a short time if movement of the affected parts has been permitted, the operation should be performed as soon after the radiogram has been taken as possible. It must be remembered that with a single photograph it is difficult to determine the exact plane and direction in which the needle lies. Reliance upon this method, therefore, may lead one, in the first place, to cut down upon the palm when really the needle lies posteriorly to the metacarpals, and in the second place, to form an inaccurate judgment of its size owing to foreshortening by obliquity. Hence it is desirable in all cases that two views be taken, either in planes at right angles to one another or in stereo- scopic register. Perhaps the best method is to conduct the operation in the X-ray room so that advantage may be taken of the fluorescent screen. An accurate impression of the position and size of the foreign