346 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES In cases of septic intoxication due to absorption from a large cavity, this must be thoroughly washed out with antiseptic lotion, and, if considered advisable and safe, some powerful germicide, such as pure carbolic acid, should be applied. Cases of chronic sepsis should be treated by removal of necrosed tissue and free drainage, or in some cases amputation may be necessary. The treatment of the toxsemia due to the toxins already absorbed is appropriate serum-therapy. During the continuation of the fever the diet should be light and nutritious, the bowels should be kept open, and fluid should be freely given to aid the excretion of the toxins by the kidneys. In chronic cases fresh air and sunlight are of the utmost importance, and many patients treated in towns fail to improve, but do so if sent to the seaside or the country. There is rarely any need for specific medication to reduce the temperature, and probably antipy- retics do harm rather than good; but if the temperature be very high and these remedies be not otherwise contra-indicated, cold or tepid spong- ing or baths should be used to reduce the temperature, and will improve the pulse, respiration, and physical functions. Specific infectious fevers.— As far as the rise of temperature and general constitutional disturbance are concerned, the specific infectious fevers do not diiler markedly from the non-specific, the difference in the two conditions being the presence in the former of specific symptoms, both local and general. The same applies to the treatment of the fever, the general treatment being that given above for the non-specific fevers, whilst the specific treatment consists of appropriate serum-therapy and means to counter- act the specific symptoms, such as the muscular spasms in tetanus. In chronic specific infectious fevers, such as tuberculosis, fresh air, sunshine, and good hygienic conditions are at least as important as specific treatment, and are necessary, whether vaccine treatment is used or not. MONTH DAYoF MONTH DAYofD/SEAS£. / Fo 107 MEMORANDA 106 105° 104° O 105 o 102 101° 0 100 0 99 98° 0 31 96 M E M E M M E 0 10 1 is ■a 0/7 \ \ Pl/LSE £ 36 8^ 6^ /zo Chart 3.—Case of death from shock after operation.