29 IMMUNITY some observers held to be associated with the production of the anti- bodies. The increased phagocytic power of the leucocytes is itself attributed by certain workers to the influence of particular antibodies which they term opsonins, but about whose identity there is still considerable uncertainty. They are with difficulty distinguishable from some of the bodies to which bacteriological investigation had already given a variety of other names, and there is some support to be found for the supposition that opsonic action is in part effected by a specific antibody, and in part by a thermolabile substance present in normal blood-serum, termed the complement. However this may be, the development of active immunity is definitely associated with an increased positive chemiotaxis, and an increase in the phagocytic action of the leucocytes. Other antibodies which are formed in the course of the reaction to infection are the antitoxins, which antagonize the specific toxins ; (uiglutinins, which cause agglomeration of the bacteria ; immune bodies (amboceptors), such as the specific agents in haemolysis, bac- teriolysis, and cytol3''sis ; precipitins, coagulins, and the like. Some of these bodies produce their effects by independent action (e.g. anti- toxins), while others (the amboceptors) only develop their activity when associated with the extremely labile substance already referred to as the complement. Duration of immunity.—The duration of active acquired immunity is found to vary within very \\'ide limits. Passive immunity, on the other hand, persists only so long as the specific protective sub- stances injected remain in the body of the animal, from which they somewhat rapidly disappear. The rate of disappearance is dependent not only on the source and natuie of the immune substances con- cerned, but also on their method of administration (whether sub- cutaneous, intraperitoneal, or intravenous, etc.), and on the dosage. Passive immmiity may last, though in progressively diminishing degree, for several weeks, or for only a few days, after the injection of an immmie serum. The duration of active immunity, whether naturally or artificially acquired, varies within much wider limits than is the case in passive imjnunity, since in the case of some infections it persists for many years or even for life, while in others it may have an extremely brief duration, or even be to all appearances entirely absent. Indeed, in a few cases it has been maintained that susceptibility is actually in- creased by a previous attack of the disease, or a previous inoculation with the particular bacterium in question. Thus the protection afforded by recover}^ from an attack of variola, of S}q3hilis, of measles, of enteric fever, or of scarlatina continues almost if not absolutely invariably throughout life. In cholera and plague the immunity is