28o MILITARY SURGERY this a bullet passes close to a nerve without touching it or directly injuring it, and the vibrations caused by the passage of the bullet afiect the nerve fibres in such a way as to suspend their conductivity for a longer or shorter time, depending on the severity of the con- cussion. In the most severe cases the nerve fibres degenerate, and until they have regenerated no recovery of function can take place. For the production of such severe efiects the bullet must have a very high velocity; hence they are seen only in wounds at comparatively short ranges. In the slighter degrees of concussion recovery begins early. It is often difficult or impossible to distinguish clinically between severe concussion and division of a nerve, and, as a divided nerve must be sutured while one that is merely suffering from concussion will recover completely without operation, the question is of con- siderable practical importance. If the wound has been received at a long range, or from a spent bullet, the probabilities are against the symptoms being due to concussion. In cases of doubt it is better to wait before exploring, and if after a month or six weeks there is no improvement the nerve should be exposed, and sutured if found to have been divided. Suppuration in the bullet wound renders any attempt at nerve suture useless until the wound has healed. In all cases of nerve injury the nutrition of the paralysed muscles must be kept up by massage and electrical stimulation until recovery is complete, and care must be taken to prevent shortening of the unopposed muscles and stiffness of joints. Traumatic neuritis, or pressure on a nerve by scar tissue or callus, or a foreign body, may require operation. Fractures of the long bones are very common and often severe. At short ranges rifle bullets ^^ro^uce very extensive comminution, sometimes reducing some inches of the bone to small fragments. These are driven into the muscles by the communicated energy of the bullet and act as secondary missiles, often doing more damage to the soft parts than the bullet itself. Some of the fragments are carried out through the exit wound, enlarging it, and in this way large lacerated exit wounds are produced when the velocity of the bullet is very great and the bone is near the surface. From their appearance these are commonly called " explosive" exit wounds (Fig. 32). A bullet striking bone at a short range is often broken up, the mantle being torn and the lead flattened out or broken into small pieces which lodge in the part (Plate 29, Fig. 1). Although the shaft of a bone may be extensively fissured, the fissures seldom run into the joints, except in fractures from large missiles which have a greater wedge action than the small-bore bullet. As the range increases, the severity of the damage to bone decreases, the amount of comminution is less, the fragments are fewer, larger, and are not