CARCINOMA : SECONDARY CHANGES 519 stration of glycogen in the cells of cancer of the liver and of special ferments in cancers of the stomach and pancreas. Sufficient has been said to show that although all forms of cancer tend more or less to assume an undifferentiated form in which the cells lose all resemblance to the epithelium in which their growth began, yet in many forms sufficient resemblance to some particular type of cell is retained to indicate with tolerable certainty their place of origin. Secondary changes.—Carcinomas, more especially of the soft cellular forms, are liable to fatty degeneration and necrotic softening, which may be so slight as merely to produce yellow granular areas in the tumour substance, or may be so extensive as to cause lique- faction of a considerable part of the growth. The degeneration of the tumour substance may also be occasioned by extravasation of blood, but on account of the difference in the vascular arrangement, this is less common than in the sarcomas. Occasionally the structure of a carcinoma is very extensively modified by a jaeculiar colloid degeneration of the cancer cells. This will most conveniently be considered in connexion with carcinomas of the breast and alimentary canal, in which it is most frequent. In carcinomas of superficial origin, as well as in those which, commencing deeply, have invaded a cutaneous or mucous surface, ulceration is very common, and the ulcer often assumes characters which clearly show that it has resulted fi'om a malignant growth. The surface of the ulcer is usually irregular, deep furrows or excavations being surrounded by prominent firm pink nodular masses looking like exuberant granulation tissue and often bleeding readily when touched. The edges of the ulcer are raised and nodular, and frequently everted or even overhanging, and the margin of the vmdestroyed skin or mucous membrane often ends abruptly at the edge of the ulcerated surface. The indurated base of the ulcer is formed by the deeper part of the growth extending into the subcutaneous or submucous tissue, and in the case of a small superficially ulcerated carcinoma, as, for instance, on the lip, is a feature of great diagnostic value. The discharge fi'om an ulcerated carcinoma usually consists of a thin blood-stained fluid, often with a peculiarly offensive odour. In many circumstances, especially in carcinomas of the alimentary canal, secondary suppuration takes place around the ulcerated tumour, and thus the malignant nature of the disease may be entirely masked. For instance, in carcinoma of the csecum a large ^^erica'cal abscess may result, which may readily be mistaken for suppurative appendicitis. The macroscopic appearances and clinical features of the varieties of carcinoma differ so widely that it is impossible to give any general