205 DRY GANGRENE evaporation is favoured, and that saprophytic micro-organisms are rigidly excluded. Prior to actual death, numbness and tingling, followed later by acute pain, are felt in the affected part. The pain is due partly to neuritis, partly to an impaired blood supply to the nerves; and it generally persists until the gangrene is well established, because the axis cylinders are the last to die. Cessation of pulsation in the vessels is followed by loss of heat, loss of tactile sensation, and loss of function. The skin, at first waxy in colour, becomes greasy, transparent, and yellow, owing to liberation of fat from the tissues and alteration in the haemoglobin, and finally turns black. The dead part is now shrivelled, hard, and dry, and usually emits a peculiar musty odour. The minute changes which immediately precede the death of the tissues cannot be described, as the particular detail or substance of the living cell that disappears or changes at the moment of death has never been isolated chemically nor seen under the microscope. But in necrotic cells, according to Hektoen and Riesman, " the nucleus very soon becomes indistinct, due either to an apparent solution of the chromatic substance, known as karyolysis or chromatol3^sis, or to a breaking-up of the nucleus into a number of irregular fragments, a form of disintegration which Schmaus and Albrecht have shown is initiated by a peculiar transposition of the chromatic filaments. At times the nucleus, together with the cell body, changes into a hyaline mass. The cytoplasm of necrotic cells loses its normal granulations and undergoes hyaline transformation, or vacuolation. The exact che- mical processes that underlie these changes in necrosis are not known. In many instances the factors necessary for the precipitation of fibrin are present, giving rise to the so-called coagulation necrosis." Fat- globules escape from their cells and infiltrate the tissues, rendering them greasy and more or less transparent, while necrosis of the red blood-corpuscles allows their hasmoglobin to escape and stain the part brown or black. When the necrotic process ceases, the dead jjart acts as an irritant, and the living tissues immediately in contact with it become inflamed and pass through the series of changes leading to the formation of granulation tissue. A line of separation in the form of superficial ulceration now forms. This gradually deepens, until finally the dead part is completely separated and drops off, leaving on the living part an ulcer which heals by cicatrization. Hpemorrhage during the process of separation is prevented by throm- bosis, which subse(]uently leads to the permanent occlusion of the vessels. In the early stages constitutional symptoms are slight, and, beyond the inconvenience attached to a part which is insensitive and function- less, the patient complains of little more than occasional shooting