TUMOURS 462 that tlie invasion of the abdominal cavity occurs by way of the com- munication of the parietal and abdominal lymphatics, especially in the region of the epigastrium. Having once reached the peritoneal cavity, the further extension of the disease, it is supposed, may be dependent upon a simple process of transplantation of the cancer cells on the serous membrane and their subsequent growth into the subjacent viscera—as, for instance, the ovaries. Whilst fully re- cognizing the value of Handley's work, we cannot entirely accept his conclusions regarding the part played by the lymphatic and circu- latory systems respectively in the dissemination of malignant disease, and find it difficult to believe that, for instance, the metastases of mammary carcinoma in the bones occur by way of the lymphatics. A primary malignant growth is usually single, but a considerable number of cases are on record in which two or more such tumours have occurred in the same individual and, being instances of different forms of growth, cannot be regarded as secondary one to another. Thus, among numerous cases of this kind recorded by Beadles is one of spheroidal-celled carcinoma of the breast and squamous-c elled carci- noma of the cervix uteri, and another of carcinoma of the breast and sarcoma of the skin of the groin. Getting also has placed on record the case of a man, aged 58, who had carcinoma of the larynx with secondary growths in the lymphatic glands, carcinoma of the pylorus, and car- cinoma of the rectum. Such exceptional cases do not invahdate the general rule that a primary malignant tumour is usually solitary. Causation of malignant tumours.—Already, in speaking of the nature and causation of tumours in general, reference has been made to some of the views which have been held concerning the origin of malignant as well as benign growths. For instance, it has been pointed oixt that, according to some authorities, tumours originate, not in the ordinary cells of the tissues, but in cells of an embryonic type, which remain among the ordinary tissues, ready under the influence of some unknown cause to take on the independent growth which results in the formation of a tumour. Applying this considera- tion to tumours of the malignant type, the same question arises, but in any case the histological evidence tends to show that the growth of such tumours takes place by a continuous multiplication of the cells in which they originate, and not by the progressive implication of neighbouring cells in the abnormal mode of growth. For instance, in a squamous-celled carcinoma of the sldn the epidermal cells in the neighbourhood of the spreading tumour appear merely to undergo secondary changes caused by the growth of the tumour, and to take no share in the extension of the disease. The problem of the cause of malignant tumours may, indeed, be presented by the question—What occasions the abnormal proliferation of connective-