TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS : ARYLARSONATES 771 In all, since August, 1907, when we began the arylarsouate treat- ment, 250 cases of syphilis have been so treated at Rochester Row, at the time of writing. All the patients did well. They gained weight almost immediately after coming under treatment; all signs of ansemia or debility passed away; the induration at the site of the primary lesion resolved ; the beneficial effects of the drug were most marked in ulcerations of the throat, mouth, and tongue; and the early rashes and eruptions rapidly disappeared. In the older cases —i.e. inveterate leucoplakia of tongue and inside of cheeks—we have had great success. One case of over eight years' standing cleared up in a most wonderful manner after one course of arsacetin, and there has been no relapse ; but, of course, the patient has had further courses. The arylarsonates cause the spirochsetes to disappear from lesions very quickly. Of the cases treated, few have had relapses—certainly not more than one would have expected had mercury been used instead. The manner in which the treatment was continued was very similar to that already described as regards the intramuscular method —i.e. certain courses of treatment, with alternative periods of rest, the latter increasing in length as the case goes on. In not one of the cases treated were any toxic effects noticed. It was generally believed that as mercury dissociates the arylarso- nates, treatment by mercury and by arylarsonates should not be given simultaneously : hence one taught that an interval of at least fifteen days should be allowed to elapse between the end of one treatment and the beginning of the other. Further observation has shown me that this teaching is wrong. I got most excellent effects from a combination of mercury and arsacetin in a series of cases treated thus. Courses of arsacetin were given during the usual courses of either calomel or metallic mercury. The results were brilliant. Cer- tain cases that resisted either remedy alone cleared up at once under both combined. Both Major Ward and myself are now convinced that this combination method is the best. At present I am using a preparation called atoxylate of mercury, produced by the original manufacturers of atoxyl. With this I have treated over fifty cases with excellent results. It cer- tainly clears up symptoms very rapidly—more rapidly even than calomel. Whether it is as lasting in its effects remains to be seen. A case of sclerotic syphilitic glossitis, with deep, irregular ulceration, of five years' standing, which had resisted all known methods of dealing with it (the patient had been one of my own for two years), made a wonderful recovery under atoxylate of mercury. After the fourth injection the hardening of the tongue began to soften, and after the seventh injection it had regained its normal consistence and the deep, craggy ulcers had almost filled up. The dose of the