TUMOURS 558 mentioned, may cause no symptoms, and the patient seeks advice on account of the secondary growths. An isolated bone tumour may thus be the only recognized lesion, and is liable to be mistaken for a primary sarcoma. Secondary deposits in the spine may occasion spastic paraplegia, or diffuse deposits without obvious deformity may be manifested by bone pains and spontaneous fractures. Carcinoma of the urethra, especially in the male, is very rare. In the male iirethra, recorded cases show that the bulbous portion is more often afiected than the penile, and according to Shattock, who, in 1907, reviewed the literature of the subject, the growth is always of the squamous-celled variety. Normally the anterior part of the urethra is Lined with a stratified epithelium^ like that of the glans ; whilst in the bulbous portion the lining consists of columnar or sub- columnar cells succeeded by several layers of polymorphous or poly- hedral cells, and a gradual transition occurs between this arrangement and that present at the meatus. It is therefore strange, as Shattock points out, that in carcinoma of the bulb a metaplasia should so con- stantly occur and the resulting growth be squamous-celled. The change may possibly result fj:om the long-standing gonorrhoeal stricture which usually precedes the development of the growth. The disease generally simulates a periurethral inflammatory induration in the perineum, and, as in Marcus Beck's case, recorded in 1893, its true nature may only be revealed by a perineal incision. Urethral fistulse are likely to result. Secondary growths in the inguinal glands appear to be rare, but in one recorded case there were nodules in the lungs. Carcinoma of the female urethra is usually of the squamous-celled variety, but in two specimens in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons the growth is a papilliferous columnar-celled carcinoma. Carcinoma of the testicle generally occurs as a soft spheroidal- or polyhedral-celled growth, often indistinguishable except by careful microscopic examination from a round-celled sarcoma, and we have already seen that oancer is probably the more common (p. 508). The tumours wliich have been described as columnar-celled carcinomas of the testicle must probably be regarded as teratomas (p. 586). A soft carcinoma of the testicle causes at first a smooth enlargement of the organ, but later it becomes nodular as the growth extends through the timica albuginea. Htemorrhagic extravasations and necrotic changes are common. Nicholson, from a study of the Guy's Hospital cases, finds that the average age is 43 years. In its extreme malig- nancy and in the frequency of secondary deposits in the abdominal lymphatic glands the disease behaves in the same way as sarcoma of this organ (p. 508). Carcinoma of the penis begins most commonly on the surface of the glans, usually in the region of the corona, or on the