244 WOUNDS AND WOUND TREATMENT dressings, as in bleeding from the scalp, where the vessels are difficult to pick lip. {d) Torsion, by lacerating the inner coat of the vessel, promotes hseniostasis, and is of value for comparatively small vessels in that it does not involve the presence of a ligature, i.e. a foreign body, in the wound. (e) Acupressure. (/) Hfemostatics, such as adrenalin or hydrogen peroxide, may be employed, especially in cases of general oozing. They are, hoAvever, unsatisfactory. (g) Heat and cold. Heat is a more efficient haemostatic than cold, and may be applied in the form of hot water at a temperature of 120° r., or of the actual or galvano-cautery at dull-red heat. Hot water, on the other hand, below 118° F. will encourage bleeding. ii. Cleansing.—In the first place the woimd itself should be covered with a clean dressing, and attention directed to the thorough cleansing of its surroundings. This is effected by shaving, by the free use of soap and water, followed by grease solvents such as ether or turpentine, and by antiseptics such as alcohol, mercurials, lysol, or carbolic. The wound is then uncovered, washed, freed from foreign particles and lacerated shreds, and swabbed out with anti- septics such as hydrogen peroxide, carbolic, mercurials, lysoform, etc. Or the surrounding skin may be cleansed with acetone and then painted with iodine, witliout the preliminary use of water. iii. Investigation is necessary to ascertain the extent of the wound, to facilitate discovery and removal of foreign bodies, and to ensure recognition of damage to important structures such as nerves, vessels, tendons, bone, and adjacent joints and body cavities. Thorough examination of the nerves and their areas of distribution before the patient is anaesthetized will enable the surgeon not only to give a more accurate prognosis, but also to adopt measures for their repair ; whilst in the skull special care is necessary to ensure detection of fractures, if present. The question of the amount of exploration desirable in wounds over joints is one of considerable difficulty. A definite rule, however, must be laid down that in no cases are such woimds, especially if punctured, to be probed, for this procedure is apt to ensure soiling of a joint which otherwise might have escaped infection. If the wound has been inflicted with a fairly clean instrument, and if joint-involvement be either problematical or of slight character, as demonstrated by the escape of a drop or two of sjTiovial fluid, it is advisable to temporize, i.e. to cleanse the more superficial parts thoroughly, to attempt no immediate definite explora- tion, but to await evidence of infective joint-involvement, such as rise of temperature, local heat and redness, effusion into the joint,