HEPATIC CHANGES IN CONGENITAL SYPHILIS 799 The liver may be enlarged and hard, but the surface remains smooth or very slightly granular; there is a diffuse pericellular cirrhosis, the newly formed connective tissue being both cellular and vascular. The liver cells are isolated by this newly formed tissue into small groups of one, two, three, or four cells. The Spirochcete fcdlida may be demonstrated in considerable numbers in this form of the disease. In Hochsinger's third variety there is often marked fibrosis in the neighbourhood of the gummata. Large gummata—the true gummata of Hochsinger's fourth variety—are less common in the congenital than in the acquired form of the disease. Amyloid degeneration of the connective-tissue stroma may occur. Besides the usual forms of hepatitis interstitialis and gummosa, Schiiffel described a condition peculiar to congenital syphilis, which he called peripylephlebitis syphilitica. This is characterized by enlargement of the liver, which is of a brown-green colour and flabby. Throughout the soft parenchyma the larger branches of the portal vein can be felt as hard cords, about the thickness of a little finger. Cross-section of a cord shows the lumen of the vein narrowed, the biliary ducts and branches of the hepatic artery shut in and con- stricted by fibrous tissue. The change depends upon an excessive fibrous-tissue increase of Glisson's capsule. The disease affects either of the chief branches of the portal vein and stops short at the sinus vence portse. The umbilical vein is intact. Jaundice, colourless fa?ces, meteorism, ascites, enlargement of the spleen, and intestinal haemorrhages are the clinical symptoms. Pancreas.—This organ may be affected by a chronic interstitial inflammation leading to enlargement, and also by gummata. Kidneys.—Interstitial nephritis is the commonest manifesta- tion of this disease, and it is not infrequently associated with amy- loid degeneration. True gummata are very rare. Suprarenals.—Virchow and Barensprung describe the supra- renals as being enlarged, dotted with small, scattered, yellowish-white nodules, and showing marked fatty changes in the parenchyma. Testicles.-—Gummata are extremely rare, but diffuse inter- stitial inflammation is not uncommon ; usually occurring, as it does, within the first few months, it is pathognomonic of syphilis ; the epididymis may or may not be affected, and an accompanying hydro- cele is rare. In consequence of this connective-tissue hyperplasia, there is a growth and degeneration of the glandular epithelium. Syphilitic affections of the female sexual organs are extremely rare. Besides the usual interstitial changes, which differ in no way from those observed in other organs, Schukowsky reported an