LIFE CONDITIONS OF BACTERIA 15 of the metabolic activity of the bacteria themselves. These latter are- often definitely unfavourable to the continued life not only of the particular micro-organisms which produced them, but also to that of other varieties. On the other hand, it is to be remembered that some of the metabolic substances in question may, under certain condi- tions, act favourably on the growth of other micro-organisms, and may even be essential to their nutrition. Antiseptics are those substances which, even in relatively small amounts, are definitely injurious to bacterial life. Their effect may be due to their special action as protoplasmic poisons, as oxidizing agents, or as coagulants, and the like ; or, more commonly, it is due- to a combination of these properties. Their action naturally depends in a marked degree not only on the concentration in which they are present, but also on the manner and the medium in which they are applied. Factors of particular importance in this relation are the temperature, the reaction of the medium, the presence of greater or less amounts of colloid matter (e.g. proteins), the character and con- centration of any inorganic salts which may be present, and so on. The effect of any given antiseptic also varies greatly with the micro- organism employed for testing it, with the presence or absence of spores, with the age of the culture, and with the physical condition (e.g. dry- ness) of the bacteria exposed to its action. The foi'm of the antiseptic itself, too, whether liquid or gaseous, has a considerable influence on its rate and mode of ?ction. In the case of antiseptics in solution, the nature of the solvent has a marked effect on the results obtained, the most powerful action being usually exhibited by aqueous solu- tions, while solutions in oil or in glycerine have a much smaller effect. The substances commonly employed as antiseptics belong to many different classes of chemical agents including heavy metals, halogens, organic and inorganic salts and acids, and bodies of the aromatic series. Accordingly, it is impossible to enter here into jorecise details as to their probable mode of action on bacteria, beyond stating that their molecular weight and the degree of chemical dissociation which occurs in their solutions appear to bear an important relation to their antiseptic action. Beyond this, very little is actually known with certainty as to the influence of chemical constitution on antiseptic action. The action is undoubtedly a very complex one, and conclusions as to the value of particular antisejDtics for jsarticular purposes camiot be drawn with certainty from mere test-tube experiments. Thus, cor- rosive sublimate is a most powerful bacterial poison when dissolved in water, but in the presence of albuminous fluids, such as blood- serum, its effect may be reduced to as little as a hundredth part or less of its action in water. This particular result is no doubt owing to the formation of mercury albuminates in the fluid and the