729 SECONDARY SYPHILIS agents the best is crude chromic acid, applied to the thoroughly dried sore under a general (or a local) ansesthetic. A black slough forms, which, after removal by charcoal poultices, leaves a healthy surface. Occasionally a second application is required. Nitric instead of ■cln'omie acid may he iised. THE PERIOD OF SECONDARY INCUBATION The period between the appearance of the chancre and the •development of secondary symptoms averages from forty to fifty clays, during which the chancre may have healed and the disease appear to be quiescent. During this time, however, the virus is becoming disseminated through the system. The period is shortened if the patient be in undermined health or if the infection be of a malignant type. SECONDARY SYPHILIS Lymphadenitis.—Early in the secondary stage the virus mani- fests itself in the lymphatic glands other than those anatomically -connected with the primary lesion. Already it has been seen that within a week or so from the appearance of the chancre the glands and lymphatics in its vicinity become enlarged and indurated ; l;)ut these ■changes must be differentiated from those now nnder consideration. The cervical, axillary, and inguinal glands especially undergo the •essential hyperplastic process produced by the virus. The other glands most frequently affected are the prevertebral, lumbar, iliac, and femoral groups. Changes in the deep glands are now recognised as a constant accompaniment of secondary and tertiary syphilis. Th-j enlargement of lymph-vessels and glands is characterized by three features : induration, absence of inflammatory signs, and per- sistency. During the course of the disease this condition of the lymphatic glands may disapjDcar, but more frequently it persists for months, or even years, after all other evidences of the disease have gone. Eesolution is almost the certain termination, but suppuration may occur should secondary infection with pyogenetic microbes take place. Mercurial ointment should be well rubbed into the skin over the enlarged glands daily. Fever.—The constitutional disturbance varies greatly in differ- ent cases. Sometimes there is well-marked fever, especially towards evening, when it may reach 10-3° F. ; in other cases the fever is dis- tinctly remittent. Nervous symptoms.—Occipital headache, especially nocturnal, is frequent, and may be severe. Neuralgic pains, especially in the fifth nerve, but also in the intercostal, sciatic, or anterior crural nerves, are often present. Insomnia is an occasional symptom.