231 EMPHYSEMATOUS GANGRENE wounds, which so frequently form the portal of entry for the specific organism. Though all the varieties mentioned flourish in soil and the dirt of roads, the B. cedematis maligni may also occur in solutions of musk. Once having gained an entrance, these organisms (of which Nos. 1 and 4 are anaerobes) multiply with great rapidity, and lead to a very rapid development of gas in the tissues, accompanied by spreading oedema and necrosis. Disintegration very soon takes place. The blood and cellular tissues are first affected, next the muscle-fibres lose their striation, and the sarcolemma becomes fatty and granular; then the dense connective tissues break up into their primitive fibrillse ; and lastly, when the fibrous sheaths of the nerves are de-;- troyed, the myelin sheaths of the axis cylinders undergo the changes which characterize degeneration. While these changes are taking place, the chemical products of decomposition, especially the gaseous ones, are formed in great profusion ; liquefaction proceeds so rapidly that dressings becomes saturated with fluid, bubbles of foul-smelling gas quickly spread along the planes of loose connective tissue, and the part becomes converted into a slimy, crepitating mass with a pene- trating, fetid odour. Symptoms.—In the cases due to the B. aerogenes capsulatus recorded both by Fedde Fedden and by Sargent and Dudgeon, the incubation period, that is the time Avhich elapsed between the acci- dent and the detection of gas in the tissues, varied from thirty to forty hours. Of three other cases recorded by the latter observers, in one due to the B. coli the incubation period was four days ; in another, where the Staphylococcus -pyogenes aureus alone was isolated, it was twelve days ; and in the third, from which cultures of the Bacillus pyocyaneus were obtained, it was three days. When infec- tion occurs through a wound, the earliest sign of gangrene is generally a red blush. Very soon the part above the wound swells, becomes tensely cedematous, crepitant, and pale, while quantities of yellow fluid with a peculiarly disgusting odour pour from the wound. The pallid area quickly becomes red or mottled, vesicles and bullfe form, the surface becomes boggy, and emphysematous crack- ling is readil}^ detected—in fact it may be so marked that percussion elicits a tympanitic note. Below the seat of gangrene the limb is pale and pulseless ; above, crepitant oedema and discoloration spread so rapidly that the trunk may be invaded in a few hours, while the part first attacked is converted into a green or black pultaceous mass. While these changes are taking place in the tissues, constitutional depression is extreme. The patient looks very ill, with a dry brown tongue, great thirst, pale sunken face, and anxious expression. The pulse and respirations are rapid and feeble, and the temperature.