DRAINAGE OF ACCIDENTAL WOUNDS ^45 pain and limitation of naovement, or other indications for inter- ference. It must be remembered, liowever, that any trauma in the region of a joint may give rise to a non-infective s)Tiovial effusion into the subjacent articular cavity. If, on the other hand, the wound into the joint be certain and fairly extensive, and the instrument be undoubtedly dirty, immediate open exploration is advisable. The same general rules may be laid down for the treatment of wounds suspected of involving the peritoneum. Careful examination is also necessary to discover the presence and position of foreign bodies, such as needles (p. 24(j), pieces of broken tool, and glass. iv. Coaptation of the wound surfaces and edges is to be carried out by one of the methods described hereafter. Accurate closure must only be adopted when cleanliness and dryness have been ensured. It is usual, therefore, not to stitch up punctured or extensively lacerated wounds closely; room must always be left for efiicient drainage. V. Drainage.—A drain should be used— (a) When doubt exists as to efficient removal of infective material ; for example, in punctured wounds. (h) AVhen effective hsemostasis is not obtainable. (c) When, owing to severe laceration or contusion, some necrosis is expected. (d) When it is impossible to avoid the existence of an actual or potential cavity in the deeper layers of the wound in which serum or blood may accumulate. We must here draw attention to some fallacies in draining tliat have in the past defeated the very object of the process. Too often, especially in the abdomen, has the tube been kept in lumecessarily long, for after a short time, from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, the general abdominal cavity becomes entirely shut oft' by adhesions, so that after that period the surgeon is not draining the general cavity but merely the track of the drain. Moreover, the tube prevents the closure of the track, which, therefore, forms a ^^ath for secondary infection from the skin. Suppuration from its walls is induced, and the simple drainage track is converted into a sinus exuding pus and demanding treatment which protracts the convalescence. For a similar reason it is advisable to avoid drainage of abscess cavities due to pure tubercular or, in many cases, pure pneumococcic infection. Secondary infection, usually by the staphylococcus, enters along the track and may lead to long-continued suppuration with its sequehe, amyloid degeneration and exhaustion. Modern surgery, therefore, aims rather at emptying such cavities,