SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 66 living tetanus bacilli or spores is equally ineffective in producing the disease. The effect of the inoculation of pure cultures into animals depends on the accompanying conditions. If a small quantity of a bouillon culture be injected subcutaneously in a mouse, the animal may be killed by the preformed toxin actually present in the fluid injected, without any development of tetanus bacilli at the site of inoculation. But if washed micro-organisms be introduced, no pathological results ensue, unless at the same time anaerobic conditions are produced at the site of inoculation, either by the association of aerobic organisms or by a local tissue-injury sufficient to produce an area of cell degenera- tion and necrosis. This explains the fact that though the tetanus bacillus is so widely distributed, and injuries contaminated with soil are so extremely common, yet tetanus resulting from such injuries is in most places relatively infrequent. In a case of tetanus, whether in an animal or in man, the bacillus never spreads beyond the site of primary infection, or possibly the nearest lymphatic glands. It will be found, sometimes in considerable numbers, in the pus and in tlie necrotic tissue of the wound, and may be recognized ^yithout much difficulty. The diagnosis should, however, always be confirmed, where possible, by the subcutaneous inoculation of a mouse with material from the woimd. The symptoms of the disease are entirely toxic, and the local action on the tissue is practically neglig- ible. The site of infection is to be regarded merely as a manufactory for the toxin, which diffuses out from it to reach the nerves and the circulating blood, and is thus carried to the central nervous system. By appropriate and repeated inoculations of tetanus toxin into animals an antitoxic serum is readily obtained, and for this purpose the horse is commonly employed. But as the toxin is so extremely virulent, it has been found convenient to begin the immunization with a toxin diminished in activity by treatment with iodine terchloride or pure iodine. An antitoxin of great potency can thus be obtained. The antitoxic strength of any given serum is estimated in terms of an arbitrary antitoxin unit. The unit taken is that amount of antitoxin which will protect a mouse weighing 10 grm. against 4,000,000 minimal lethal doses of the standard toxin. A serum containing anything between .'3 and 10 units of antitoxin per cubic centimetre of volume is to be regarded as a very powerful serum. In a case of tetanus in man, the serum treatment must be begun at the earliest possible moment, and at least 100 units, preferably 200, should be given at once. This would be contained in 10-20 c.c. of a good antitoxic serum. If the serum employed is a less potent one, and more than 20 c.c. is required to contain the necessary amount of antitoxin, it may be injected in divided portions and at different places.