ENZYMES AND TOXINS 19 {b) Enzymes.—The bacteria depend to a great extent, not only for their normal assimilation, but also for a large part of their patho- genetic action in the invaded organism, upon the effects produced in their surroundings by enzymes which they elaborate, and either retain within their protoplasm or discharge externally. Recent investigation tends to the conclusion that the setting-free of enzymes into the sur- rounding medium is to a great extent dependent on the disintegration of the bacteria themselves. However, it is clear that all such enzymes certainly arise within the protoplasm of the cell itself, since they can be squeezed out artificially b}' the application of sufficient pressure. The effects of the zymogenetic action of bacteria fall into different groups according to the nature of the chemical changes produced. They may be broadly classed as processes of oxidation, hydrolysis, reduction, decomposition, and synthesis, as well as physical changes like coagulation, or a combination of several of these actions, as in the case of fermentation and putrefaction. Oxidation occurs in the production of acetic acid from ethyl alcohol by the B. aceti {Mycodernia aceti), and in the formation of nitrites and nitrates from ammonia by the nitrifying bacteria. Hydrolysis is seen in the breaking up of cellulose by the B. amtjlohacter {Clostridium hutyricum) with a pro- duction of glucose ; or of urea into ammonium carbonate, as, for example, by the Micrococcus urecv, and in a great number of other well- known instances, among which may be mentioned the splitting-up of higher proteins into lower members of the group by peptic and tryptic action. Reduction is seen in the denitrifying action exhibited by a number of bacteria which reconvert nitrates into nitrites, and these again into ammonia and free nitrogen. Decomjjosition implies deep-seated changes in the structure of the molecules attacked, and is exhibited in the production of indol, fatty acids, amides, and many other bodies from albuminous matter. (c) The toxins are the most important products of bacterial action. They are bodies of entirely miknown composition, but appear to be either colloids, or at any rate closely associated with colloidal matter, and are produced by the specific action of particular micro- organisms. Those of diphtheria, tetanus, and anthrax have been the most carefully studied, and their formation under artificial con- ditions has been found to be associated with the production of albu- moses in the culture-fluid. If these albumoses are precipitated from solution, the toxic properties are found to accompany the precipitate. But that the albumoses are not actually tlie toxins is believed to be shown by experiments in which the precipitation of bouillon cultures. with zinc chloride yielded bodies possessing characteristic toxic action, but exhibiting none of the reactions of protein. Moreover, if the bacteria are grown in media which contain no protein material, they