631 DISLOCATIONS subastragaloid dislocation of the tarsal and metatarsal bones of the feet, leaving the astragalus and os calcis in situ. Clinically, the appearance of the limb in this case was suggestive of extensive injury to bone, yet the radiogram shows that practically no injury to bone existed, and that reduction would be followed by recovery of function in a very short time. All dislocations should be readily recognized by X-ray exami- nation, and leave no doubt as to their presence. In dealing with the small bones of the hand and foot, cases will occur occasionally in which the radiograms are a little difficult to interpret, but a careful comparison with the normal generally results in a sure diagnosis. Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 44, radiograms of the elbow- and the shoulder- joint respectively, show examples of dislocations associated with slight fractures. Dislocations of the jaw and the sternal end of the clavicle are, on account of the difficulty in securing uninterrupted shadows, the hardest to demonstrate ; but clinical investigation of these joints is generally sufficiently accurate. Errors are common in fractures and dislocations about the elbow-joint, especially in children ; thus, a fracture of the humerus immediately above the lower epi^shysis. with backward displacement of the lower fragment and elbow-joint, is not uncommonly regarded as a simple dislocation of both bones of the forearm backwards. Plate 44, Fig. 3, is a good example of such a case. Dislocation may be associated with fracture of the bone at some distance from the joint affected. For example, in Fig. 4 a dislocation of the head of the radiiis forwards is associated with fracture of the ulna at some distance from the elljow-joint ; therefore, in making an X-ray examination of a dislocated joint, the condition of the bones at some distance from the joint should be observed. Displacement of the semilunar cartilage of the knee- joint.—By inflating the synovial cavity of the knee-joint with sterile oxygen it is possible to secure a useful demonstration of the cartilages of the joint; thus the diagnosis of dis^^lacement of the cartilage can readily be arrived at. Investigation of such cases in the ordinary way by radiogram is often of some assistance, for it may be found that the symptoms of displaced cartilage may be caused by arthritis associated with osteophytic outgrowth, or by the presence of loose bodies. Traumatic myositis ossificans.—In cases in which, after reduction of a dislocation, full movement is not recovered, the existence of the above disease may be suspected. The appearance of an elbow- affected by this disease is clearly seen in Plate 45. Fig. 1, where ossi- fication is in progress in the position indicated. Acute arthritis.—In cases of acute osteo-myelitis. in which,