TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS: MERCURY 761 not been used to so great an extent in England. In the Army, how- ever, since 1889 it has steadily gained in favour, and has been attended by brilliant results, especially in India, where the rates of invaliding and death from syphilis have declined to about two-fifths of their former numl)er. The advantages of the intramuscular method are :— 1. It ensures regularity of treatment, inasmuch as this lies in the hands of the medical adviser instead of in those of the patient. 2. It is convenient to the patient, the only inconvenience being the necessity for a weekly visit to the medical adviser (if the insoluble preparations be used), as compared with the daily waste of an hour in the inunction method, or the taking of medicine three or four times a day over many months in the ingestion method. 3. It permits more accurate dosage. It must be admitted, how- ever, that although usually a dose injected is wholly absorbed, this is not always so, for sometimes the mercurial deposit becomes sur- rounded by inflammatory tissue. Even so the dosage is more accurate by this method than by either the inunction or the ingestion method, in which the amount absorbed is quite unknown. 4. There is less interference with the gastro-intestinal system, and less chance of stomatitis. Although stomatitis sometimes occurs, it does so more rarely than if the ingestion or the inunction plan has been adopted. 5. It leaves the stomach available for the reception of other remedies. This advantage is shared by the inimction method. 6. The therapeutic intensity and physiological effects on the symptoms of the disease are more marked and more lasting. It has a powerful and energetic mercurializing action on most syphilitic manifestations. 7. It does not exaggerate the moral and mental effect of the disease. In some patients, especially among the educated classes, the mere knowledge of infection and the constant reminder neces- sitated by the other forms of treatment induce a state of melancholy and syphilophobia, which may be one of the greatest difficulties in the treatment of the case. By the intramuscular treatment the reminder need only be given once a week, or even once a fortnight. I look upon this as an important advantage gained by the intra- muscular method of treatment. The disadvantages of the intramuscular method are said to be the following :— 1. Pain at the site of injection, varying greatly with the patient and with the preparation of mercury employed. It is usually present when the soluble salts are used, whereas with the newer preparations of the insoluble salts, even calomel, it is not experienced