392 TUMOURS continues to increase after the normal period of gxcwth of tlie afiected bone has come to an end, although it often ceases earlier than this. The position in which a spongy osteoma arises from a bone is very constantly the diaphysis in the immediate neighbourhood of an epiphysial line, although as the gTowth of the bone advances, the distance between the tumour and the epiphysis is jiroportionately increased (Fig. 63). This very constant position of the tumour gives strong support to the view that it arises in a sequestrated part or restof the epiphysial cartilage, which, being from its isolated position prevented from \ _ taking its part in the normal growth >'v of the bone, forms a superfluous bony excrescence or " tumour," but is still I more or less subject to the time limits ^ of the growth of the epiphysial cartilage itself. It is also of interest that these tumours are most common at those * extremities of the long bones at which the epiphyses continue longest to grow. V ' Examination of a still gi-owing can- * ■ V- cellous osteoma shows the following \ points : The tumour is pedunculated ; < III it may be mushroom-shaped, but more J , often the bulbous extremity projects J ^ obliquely from its constricted base. A ^ ^ fibrous capsule covers the tumour, and *? 1 around the attachment of the pedicle is 11 i continuous with the periosteum. A layer Fig. 63.—Cancellous osteoma ^ , -i • of upper extremity of tibia, of hyahne cartilage is present as a cap in section. to the tumour and persists during the period of growth. Around the cancel- lous bone which forms the centre of the tumour is a thin, compact layer, which, becoming thicker at the pedicle, is continuous with the compact bone of the shaft, while the cancellous tissue of the tumour is continuous through the pedicle with the interior of the bone. Thus, if the tumour is shaved off from the bone, a defect in the compact wall of the latter is exposed, so that septic changes occurring in the wound may readily extend to the interior of the diaphysis—a serious compli- cation which formerly was likely to follow operation. An adventitious bursa is almost always present over the summit of a spongy exostosis, and has been known to be the seat of an inflammatory exudation or extravasation of blood. Cancellous osteomas are most common at the lower end of the