TUMOURS 382 Certain soft polypoid outgrowths of the mucous membranes, such as that of the bladder, may have a myxomatous structure. GLIOMA A glioma is usually defined as a tumour composed of tissue resembling neuroglia, the special form of connective tissue found in the central nervous system. It occurs only in the brain and spinal cord, and in the eye, where it arises in the retina. It is at present undecided whether the tumour is of epiblastic or mesoblastic origin, and possibly different types of the growth exist. The presence of certain peculiar cell formations (rosettes) to be presently described has been held by Wintersteiner and others to prove the epithelial origin of the tumour, but this view is not universally accepted, and the true position of the glioma among tumours must still be con- sidered uncertain. It may further be pointed out that whilst certain tumours presenting the structure described below pursue an entirely benign course, others exhibit the local and general evidences of malignancy. Structure.—Examined microscopically, a glioma consists of rounded cells with large nuclei and a scanty protoplasm, separated by a felt-work of very delicate filaments, which are believed to be the branching processes of the cells (Fig. 55). The blood-vessels may be abundant, and sometimes present hyaline degeneration. The variations presented by different specimens are dependent chiefly upon differences in the length and number of the fibrils, which may sometimes be so scanty that the cells appear to be in close apposition and the tumour has the appearance of a small round-celled sarcoma. In addition to this cellular and fibrillary structure, certain peculiar cell formations—first described by Strobe in glioma of the brain and by Flexner in glioma of the retina—may be present. They consist of epithelium-like cells arranged radially around a central lumen, so as to produce the appearance of a rosette or the section of a tubule. In the case of retinal glioma the cells of these rosette-like formations have been supposed by some pathologists to be rod-and-cone fibres, whilst those in glioma of the brain have been thought to be derived from the ependymal epithelium. A glioma of the central nervous system may appear as a definite tumour, or may give rise to an enlargement of the affected part, such as the pons, which to a large extent preserves its natural form. A localized glioma has on section a grey or pinldsh-grey colour, varies in consistence, and at its margin passes continuously into the surrounding brain substance. In the more diffuse form no clear distinction between the tumour and the brain substance can be recognized. The tumour