TERATOMA 583 stage from the enlarged and branched interpapillary processes of the epithehum. Berkeley and Bonney state that in every case of car- cinoma of the vulva which they have seen, leucoplakic vulvitis has been present. The same observers point out that the condition known as kraurosis vulva?, wliich is characterized by an atropliic condition of the vulva, with stenosis of the vaginal orifice, is an essentially different affection, and stands in no causal relation to carcinoma. Multiple carcinomas of the vulva have already been mentioned as a possible example of auto-inoculation, and the view expressed that such growths are more probably due to independent developments in a part already in a precancerous condition. The lymphatic glands liable to be involved by the disease belong to the superficial inguinal group. Operative treatment should include the removal not only of the actual growth, but also of those parts presenting the precancerous changes, and also the glands, whether enlarged or not, of both groins. MIXED TUMOURS TERATOMA Already in considering the different varieties of tumours we have seen that in many instances more than one form of tissue enters into their structure, and that not only may different forms of connective tissue occur, as, for instance, in such growths as angio-lipoma and chondro-sarcoma, but even epithelial and connective-tissue elements may be associated, as in the papillomas and adenomas. There remain, however, certain tumours, frequently of a more complex structure, and containing different tissues often higlily differentiated and irregularly arranged, which require separate consideration. Among such tumours the most complex are characterized by the fact that the component tissues are so arranged as to produce a more or less striking resemblance to definite fcetal structures, whilst other tumours occur which are clearly of a similar nature but in which tlie component tissues j^resent no tendency to be grouped in such a way. Tumours of the first variety are sometimes called teratomas, and those of the second variety teratoid, but it seems more convenient to apply the name teratoma to the whole group. It is a feature common to all members of this class that tissues derived from all the three layers of the blastoderm are present, although one or another layer may be chiefly repre- sented. Mixed tumours of this nature are supposed to arise in one of the following ways :— 1. In cases of partial or complete duphcation of the embryonic area it is supposed that one portion may continue its normal process