264 WOUNDS AND WOUND TREATMENT from 4 to 5 minutes. Absolute alcohol is less germicidal tLan this weaker solution ; the alcohol apparently acts not only as a strong disinfectant, but also by hardening the surface of the epithelium and imprisoning bacteria situated in the deeper layers of the skin. It is essential that it be used on the dry hands, otherwise the harden- ing object is not attained. This is a specially suitable method, therefore, for hand steriHzation if dry rubber gloves are to be worn afterwards. This combination of alcohohc steriHzation and epithelial hardening with preservation of the dryness of the hands not only secures an efScient degree of manual asepsis at the commencement of the opera- tion, but tends to maintain it throughout, by avoiding the subsequent softening of the alcohol-hardened epidermis and escape of organisms from the deeper layers of the skin. Corrosive sublimate, perchloride of mercury, is commonly regarded as an efficient antiseptic, but we believe that its use should be largely abandoned in favour of biniodide. It is markedly irritating to the tissues and to many skins, has toxic properties, immediately dis- colours steel and silver instruments, reacts strongly with albumin, and is decomposed by soaps and alkalies. Sal-alemhroth, ammonio-mercuric chloride, in its irritating qualities and its power of combining with albumin, occupies a position inter- mediate between corrosive sublimate and biniodide. Carbolic acid.—The results of experimental research into the bactericidal power of carbolic acid have been extraordinarily varied, and probably its germicidal action has been very greatly exaggerated. Undoubtedly, however, it has a strong inhibitory effect on the ordinary organisms of disease, even in very dilute solution ; thus a solution of 1-800 will cause permanent attenuation of anthrax bacilli grown in it (Pearson). It has been extensively used in surgery since it was first introduced by Lister, but it must be remembered that even solutions of 1-20 are incapable of completely sterilizing either in- struments or skin, even if their action be prolonged for several hours. Weak solutions are, nevertheless, quite suitable for preserving the sterility of instruments which have already been sterilized, for they not only have a strong inhibitory action on bacteria, but they neither discolour nor corrode the instruments, nor cause them to be slippery. Carbolic acid is strongly toxic, and, if used freely on large wounds or in extensive cavities, may be absorbed and cause grave constitutional symptoms. The patient begins by passing a greenish or brownish urine, and later becomes pallid, with small rapid pulse, dilated pupils, blue lips, shallow rapid breathing, and a subnormal temperature. This general depression of the vital centres may pass into a low delirium, and thence into coma and death. Locally, also, carbolic acid has strong toxic effects. It irritates many skins, and if it be