ACUTE DIFFUSE SUPPURATION 195 organism, but I have seen nmcli benefit result from the administration of vaccines in doses of from about 10 millions to 100 millions in cases of very chronic suppuration from this cause. In suppurations due to B. coli the only valuable specific treatment is the administration of vaccine. The vaccine should be prepared from the 23atient, and should be given in doses of from 20 millions to 250 millions. It may be said of all vaccine treatment that, in supjmrative con- ditions at any rate, the surgeon must be prepared to meet with many disappointments ; therefore he must not relax constant care in his antiseptic local treatment. I believe that the opsonic-index control is not necessary in the administration of any of the above vaccines, ordinary clinical signs sufficing. For further details of vaccine treatment, see pp. 90-108. ACUTE DIFFUSE SUPPURATION Acute dift'use suppuration varies only in degree from an acute circumscribed abscess, and the essential points in common have been already discussed. It is a more intense process, and shows less tendency to remain localized ; even when the area is quite small, there is no attempt on the part of the tissues to proliferate to the extent seen in acute circumscribed abscess. Its failure to remain localized depends upon («) a greater virulence on the part of the micro- organism ; (6) a diminished power of resistance on the part of the host; or (c) a combination of these. The result of the process may be a large ramified cavity containing pus, or a small and even microscopic abscess, showing no signs of inducing local changes except death of tissue and emigration of leuco- cytes. Death of the host may occur while the suppuration is spreadmg. Multiple acute diffuse suppurations may be primary, that is to say, a result of the dissemination of the micro-organism immediately after inoculation ; they may be secondary, resulting from infective emboli (pytemia) ; or they may be due to the arrest, in a part having low local immunity, of micro-organisms which have gained entrance to the general blood-stream from a pre-existing focus of suppuration (chronic pya?mia). The abscesses so caused vary very much in size, from collections of a few leucocytes to cavities containing large quan- tities of pus. Clinical appearances. Local. — When an acute diffuse suppuration is superficial, the skm covering it is painful, hot, red, cedematous and swollen, and may be hard and brawny ; the margin is diffuse, and branching lines of red and inflamed lymphatic vessels