APPLIED BACTERIOLOGY I02 General considerations.—Practically every case of bacterial infection presents points of peculiarity, and, although it is impossible to lay down any hard-and-fast rule for treatment by vaccines, a few general considerations can be stated as the result of experience accumulated by many workers during the last few years. L It is absolutely essential that the diagnosis should be accurate, and that full and complete information should be available as to the exact organism responsible for the infection. 2. The estimation of the opsonic index is not absolutely essential to the successful conduct of treatment, careful attention to clinical signs and symptoms, temperature reactions, and local condition, being in most instances sufficient guide for the administration of vaccine in the acuter forms of bacterial infection. In the subacute and chronic types the weighing machine will be found a useful adjunct to clinical observation. 3. When undertaking vaccine treatment without the assistance of the opsonic index, it is imperative that the initial doses be small, in order to avoid the risk of a negative phase excessive in amount or duration. Then, too, the age, weight, and general condition of the patient must to a certain extent be taken into consideration. Speak- ing generally, an emaciated infant would receive a very much smaller dose than a well-developed and apparently vigorous adult. With acute and generalized infections the initial dose should be very small indeed, perhaps not more than one million bacteria, but in sub- acute infections it may well be ten times as large, and in chronic conditions a hundred times as large. Again, so long as improve- ment is maintained with any given dose, it may be stated in general terms that there is no object in increasing that dose. W^ith most vaccines, however, it will be found that after a time any given dose is incapable of provoking a response equal to that at first obtained, and then it is necessary to increase the dose ; but with tuberculin it may be unnecessary to alter the dose from that originally determined, throughout the whole course of treatment. 4. Again, it should be remembered that a dose sufficiently large to provoke constitutional disturbance and pyrexia usually goes hand in hand with a negative phase of considerable extent, and should be an indication for making the ensuing dose very much smaller in size. 5. Surgical treatment, carefully conducted, should accompany the vaccine treatment throughout. Thus, whenever possible, an infected area should be immobilized, an infective focus removed, and so on. With these few general considerations we may pass at once to some slightly fuller details for the treatment by vaccines of infections by various micro-organisms which more commonly come under the