INFLAMMATION 114 produced by various toxic agents, and which must be present in the blood-serum. These antibodies may act locally on the bacteria, but they will, in addition, thorouglily infiltrate the neighbouring tissues, and be carried by the lymph channels to all parts of the organism. They may thus act on bacteria at distant psirts, or, what is perhaps more important, antagonize the various toxic products which are being distributed throughout the body by way of the blood-stream. The success of Bier's method of " congestive " treatment is, no doubt, due in part to this bathing and flushing of the tissues with the serum which escapes from the obstructed and dilated vessels. Wright has strongly urged this flushing of the tissues with lymph as an aid to his " opsonic " treatment; and part, at any rate, of the success of that treatment is due to the dilution of the toxic products and the carriage of antibodies, including the opsonins, to the centres of infection. While the value of this flushing of the tissues at the region of irri- tation must be fully admitted, one must also recognize its danger to the organism as a whole ; for, with the distribution of the protective substance, there must of necessity be also a distribution of the locally produced toxins and other poisons. In this way, therefore, these may be carried into the general circulation, and, if at all powerful, may give rise to widespread poisoning effects. Thus, it is obvious that " flushing with serum " as a method of treatment should be used with great care, and only in cases where no very active poison is likely to be disseminated. In addition to this flushing action, the exudates loosen and sepa- rate the tissues, thus aiding the passage of the leucocytes in their protective work, and, by separating inflamed surfaces—e.g. the costal and visceral pleura—they lessen the amount of irritation and encourage the healing process. Further, the fibrin which is formed in all acute inflammatory exudates (Plate 11, Fig. 1) serves to coat over inflamed surfaces, protects them, and also tends to localize the area of inflam- mation. Again, the fibrin acts as a sort of scaffolding during the processes of repair, holding together the two opposed surfaces, and allowing the newly formed blood-vessels and the connective-tissue cells to extend easily from one to the other. 3. Escape of red blood-corpuscles. — The amount of blood in inflammatory exudates varies considerably. Small accumu- lations of red blood-corpuscles may be seen scattered irregularly throughout the inflamed area, or the exudate may be markedly haemorrhagic in character. The latter condition is generally due to some constitutional condition, or to a widespread degeneration of the vessels, brought about by the action of a toxin or other