WOUNDS FROM PROJECTILES ^75 in weight, and has a much liiglier initial velocity than tlie older pattern. It is too early yet to speak of its use in war. Artillery projectiles account for about 10 to 20 per cent, of the wounded, more than half of these being struck by shrapnel bullets, the remainder by pieces of shell or stones j^ropelled by the bursting of shells. Common shell are hollow projectiles containing a bursting charge, by the explosion of which fragments of the case, of very irregular size and shape, are driven in all directions. iShrapnel shell are hollow ^projectiles containing a large number of round bullets and a small bursting charge. They are intended to burst just before reaching the enemy, so that the contained bullets may scatter and inflict mucli Idss. Hand grenades, small liombs thrown by hand at distances of 50 or (iO yards, were used in the war in Manchuria. The amount of injury done by a projectile on striking depends chiefly on its energy and the resistance with which it meets. The energy of a moving body is proportional to the scjuare of its velocity, and. as a projectile loses velocity very rapidly owing to the resistance of the air, its energy is great at short ranges and compara- tively small at longer ranges. For example, the striking energy of the Lee-Enfield bullet is 2,025 foot-pounds as it leaves the muzzle of the rifle, at 300 yards from the muzzle it is little more than half this, at 700 yards about one-fourth, while at 1,500 yards less than one-eighth of the original energy remains. But though at short ranges a bullet may have an immense amount of energy and be capable of doing a great deal of damage, the amount of damage it actually does depends mainly on the resistance of the part struck. Thus, even at a very short range, a bullet striking soft parts only may cause a trivial injury ; while the same bullet striking the shaft of a bone would produce very serious results, the bone being extensively smashed, and the soft parts lacerated by pieces of bone driven through them by the impact of the bullet. At longer ranges the lessened energy of the projectile causes wounds to be much less severe. The size of the projectile also influences the injury it produces, and bullets that become deformed or " set up " on striking cut a larger track and inflict a severer wound. Expanding bullets are not now used in war, though they are not more destructive than the large leaden bullets of older rifles, to which no humanitarian objections were made. Flesh wounds from rifle bullets usually have a cleanly punched entrance aperture slightly smaller than the diameter of the bullet. The exit aperture is very often exactly like the entrance, but it tends to be more irregular, and at long ranges the skin at the exit may be split instead of perforated. Either entrance or exit may be oval if the bullet's course makes an acute angle with the surface. The track