INFLAMMATION of temperature of the body generally, but the condition now under consideration is the difference in temperature between the inflamed area and the other parts. This local heat is due to hypersemia, and not to any local production of heat; hence the local temperature never rises above that in the left ventricle. Elaborate experiments have been made with a view to deciding whether there is any actual production of heat locally as the result of inflammation, and it may be taken as proved that any such production is of the slightest, and is incapable of affecting the general body temperature. 4. Pain is a prominent and almost constant feature of acute inflammation. It is due to pressure on the sensory nerve terminals, as a result of hypersemia and exudation, and it is probable that the inflammatory process renders these hypersensitive. The degree of pain is dependent not so much upon the amount of hyperaemia and exudation as upon the tension—that is to say, upon the ability of the inflamed part to expand in order to accommodate the distended blood- vessels and the surrounding exudation. Thus, inflammatory exuda- tion into dense tissues such as the palm of the hand, or into a bone, or beneath firm and unyielding structures such as the popliteal fascia, will cause the greatest pain ; exudation into an eyelid or beneath the lax skin of the forearm is, however, comparatively painless. It may be said, therefore, that the pain of exudation varies inversely with the swelling. The character of the pain differs with the tissues affected ; thus, it is burning when the conjunctiva is affected, stabbing in the case of the pleura or the peritoneum, and aching in inflammation of bone. 5. Interference with function is invariably present. This is due partly to the pain caused by use. The inflamed eye cannot bear the light, and the patient cannot move an inflamed hand. Exuda- tion, deranged blood supply, and damage to the constituent cells of the part also have their share in this impairment of function, as shown in the cessation of function of secreting glands, or the imperfect con- traction of an inflamed muscle. Constitutional signs.—Accompanying the local inflamma- tory process, certain general or constitutional signs are present in greater or lesser degree. These signs, grouped together, may be designated by the term " fever." Before proceeding to describe them in detail, it is necessary to consider the agency by which a local inflammation gives rise to systemic disturbance. The majority of inflammatory processes are due to the presence of micro-organisms, and in these cases it is the absorption into the circulation of the toxins produced by the growth of these organisms which is responsible. That such is the case has been proved by the production of fever by inject- ing into the circulation the products of growth of artificial bacterial