TUMOURS 574 usual characters of carcinoma simplex. The deposit in the skull had destroyed a large area of the right half of the frontal bone, the opening being occupied by a thin membrane, and the only evidence of growth being found in the bone immediately surrounding the aperture. Metastases are extremely common in carcinoma simplex of the breast, and the most common sites of the secondary growths, other than the lymphatic glands, are the liver, the lungs, and the bones. Among 735 post-mortem examinations tabulated by Stephen Paget, the liver was affected in 241, and the Imigs or pleura in 70. Paget found that the ovaries were involved in 37 cases, an interesting fact to which allusion has already been made in discussing Sampson Handley's views on the subject of dissemination of cancer of the breast (p. 4()2). The frequency of deposits in the bones is a feature shared by cancer of the breast with similar disease in the thyroid gland and prostrate, and this subject has also been already briefly considered (p. 522). From the statistics of the Middlesex Hospital, Handley finds that the frequency with which the individual bones are affected is— sternum, ribs, femur, spine, cranial bones, humerus, clavicle, whereas among the 329 cases tabulated, the scapula, tibia, patella, and bones of the hand were each only once affected, and the hip-bone, radius, ulna, fibula, and bones of the foot were in no instance involved. As Handley points out, certain fallacies occur in such statistics, on account of the incomplete examination usually made of the skeleton at post- mortem examinations. Deposits are thus likely to be overlooked. especially in bones in which spontaneous fracture does not attract attention to the disease. It is, indeed, probable that the spine is more liable to secondary deposits than this list would indicate, and according to von Recklinghausen the order of frequency is—spine, ribs, sternum, femur, and humerus. The clinical importance of the metastases in breast cancer is depen- dent on the fact that they may occasion symptoms of an obscure nature even at an early stage of the disease, when the existence of a tumour of the breast is unsuspected. Osier has drawn special attention to this aspect of the disease, and has pointed out that the symptoms resulting from a secondary deposit may be such as to mislead the physician. Osier mentions, amongst others, the case of a powerfully built man who, after suffering for some months with symptoms of disease of the spinal cord, was admitted to the Johns Hopkins Hospital with paraplegia. The symptoms proved to be the result of deposits of growth in the spine secondary to a carcinoma of the right breast. Similarly the secondary deposits in the thorax may occasion pleurisy of doubtful origin, or symptoms of mediastinal tumour, even when the tumour of the breast is so small as to be either overlooked or dis- regarded. Murray, of Manchester, in association with one of us, has