TUMOURS 528 development of cutaneous cancer is afforded by tlie occurrence of the disease in workers with pitch, tar, and paraffin. Legge, who has carefully investigated the subject, points out that in workers with anthracene and grease the arms and hands are chiefly affected, whilst in patent fuel briquette makers the scrotum is the most common seat of the disease. The changes which occur in the skin, and are liable to develop into carcinoma, are similar to those met with in chimney-sweep's cancer of the scrotum (p. 56()). In a case which came under our notice the growth occurred on the dorsum of the hand of a labourer engaged in laying railway sleepers treated with tar. Mechanical irritation as a cause of carcinoma of the skin cannot be illustrated better than by the " horn-core " of draught cattle in India, which is a carcinoma developing at the root of the right horn, by which the animal is attached to a waggon or agricultural implement. At the present day the occurrence of carcinoma as a sequela of the dermatitis resulting from repeated exposure to X-rays is of especial interest, and a striking example of a chronic inflammatory lesion passing imperceptibly into malignant disease. Rowntree, who has made a study of this subject, found that, up to 1909, 11 cases of X-ray carcinoma had been recorded. In .5 of these 11 cases the growths, which appear as typical carcinomatous ulcers, were mul- tiple, occurring on different fingers or on both hands, and in one case on both hands and on the chin. In the occurrence of pigmenta- tion and warty growths, the dermatitis produced by X-rays closely resembles xerodermia pigmentosum, a disease in which squamous carcinoma also occasionally supervenes. By exposing the tails of rats to the prolonged action of X-rays, Rowntree was able to study the changes occurring in the skin. He found that in the most exposed parts the changes were of an atrophic nature, both as concerned the epidermis and the epidermal appendages of the corium. In parts less directly exposed, the changes in the epidermis and its appendages were of a hypertrophic nature. The contrast between these two results was very striking in the rabbit's ear, the atrophic changes being seen in the exposed surface, and the hypertrophic changes being produced by penetration of the rays to the opposite surface. It is apparently by the stimulating effects caused by moderate degrees of exposure for long periods that X-rays produce warty epithelial overgrowths, and in some instances actual carcinoma. It is a fact of the greatest interest and practical importance that the rays can in certain circumstances cause the development of mahgnant growths similar to those which in other circumstances they retard or even destroy. Carcinoma of the scalp sometimes arises in a sebaceous cyst, and may begin as a papillary growth into its interior, only at a later stage extending beyond the cyst-wall and involving the skin. The