743 TERTIARY SYPHILIS thickened and ulcerated. Ulceration of the mucous membrane on the surface of the indurating mass very often leads to abscess and fistula. The spleen may exhibit infiltration, either interstitial or gummatous. The former begins around the blood-vessels, produc- ing a diffuse connective tissue, which presses on the splenic pulp and causes contraction of the organ. Gummata occurring in the spleen are small and are sometimes single, whilst at other times they may be numerous. When freshly formed the gummata have a reddish-grey colour ; when old they are dry and of a yellow colour. They cause contraction of the splenic capsule. The kidney.—The kidney is liable to be attacked in three ways : by gummata, by interstitial nephritis, and by amyloid disease. Gummatous infiltration of the kidney is rare, and is usually asso- ciated with the same condition of other organs, such as the liver and spleen. Nephritis is of the chronic interstitial variety, and may lead to the granular contracted kidney, presenting the usual symptoms of that condition. Amyloid disease is a common renal result of tertiary syphilis, and is usually associated with amyloid degeneration of the liver and spleen. Treatment.—In these affections of the kidneys mercury must be given cautiously, but at the same time specific treatment must be carried out by injection either of the soluble salts or of one of the arylarsonate preparations, the latter being very applicable in such cases. The palate.'—Gummatous infiltration affects both the hard and the soft palate, both in acquired and in inherited syphilis. It begins either as a local gummatous mass or as a diffuse infiltration. In the former case it projects from the soft palate as a flattened tumour, which is at first hard and elastic, but eventually softens and breaks down, leaving a gummatous ulcer behind. The diffuse variety is much oftener seen. The soft palate becomes thickened and con- gested ; this may be limited to a part, or it may involve the whole arch of the soft palate. Later on, softening of this infiltration and ulceration take place, and the ulceration may extend to the velum palati, the uvula, and pillars of the fauces, and through the entire thickness of the soft palate, so that perforation is the result, with its attendant nasal character of the voice and regurgitation of fluids through the nose. When the perforation is small it may close by granulation ; when it cicatrizes the palate is left scarred and deformed. Differential diagnosis will have to be made between gum- matous infiltration of the palate and lupus, tubercle, and cancer. Lupus runs a much more chronic course and creeps over the surface of the palate, wliereas the syphilitic affection begins in