SYMPTOMS OF HYDROPHOBIA 887 attendants, but he may experience a desire to bite tlie sheets or the hand which tries to open his mouth. This period of excitement, interrupted by long intervals of appar- ent calm, lasts two or three days, when paralysis gradually ensues, or perhaps the patient falls suddenly into an asphyxial state. The paralysis lasts at the most from six to twelve hours ; it leads gradu- ally to collapse. In cases which are paralytic from the beginning the convulsive state is very short, and j^aralysis at the outset attacks tlie muscular groups near the seat of the bite. The duration of the disease is then generally longer, but it is excep- tional if it lasts longer than six days. 2. Hydrophobia in dogs.—More often in dogs hydrophobia presents itself in the convulsive or raging form. The animal is at first depressed, restless, irrital^le. It no longer sleeps, or perhaps its sleep is disturbed by hallucinations. If possible, it then flees from its master's house to wander in the streets, biting dogs it meets by chance, or people who try to stop it in its course. Shut up, it tears and bites all that it can find within reach, scratches the ground, and swallows the most bizarre objects, such as pieces of wood, straw, hair, etc. The voice takes a cliaracteristic note, and in place of barking the dog emits, with nose uplifted, a series of scjueaking guttural sounds. Soon swallowing becomes painful, but even then the animal tries to drink, for it is a prey to a burning thirst. It will snap at a stick or furiously attack another dog. Its gait is weak, its tongue dirty, blood-red, and hanging from its mouth. At length paralysis sets in, commencing posteriorly, gradually reaching the bulb, and end- ing in asphyxia. In mute or paralytic hydrophobia, paralysis of the jaws develops at the onset and prevents the dog from biting, but its saliva is as virulent as in the raging form. This mute hydrophobia is less usual in temperate regions, but is very common in hot countries, particularly in India and Asia Minor. Other animals capable of jaropagating hydrophobia by bites are the cat, horse, ox, goat, sheep, and the rodents, principally the rat and the mouse. In English medical literature, epidemics of hydro- jihobia are recorded among deer by Horsley, Adami, and Coppe. In 1886 an epidemic of this kind broke out in Eichmond Park, and 264 animals succumbed. Etiology.—The infection of hydropliobia can always be trans- mitted by inoculation of the saliva. In both men and dogs this is virulent two or three days before the appearance of the first symptoms of the disease. A dog is thus able to transmit hydro- phobia although it still presents the appearance of health.