50 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY When grown in milk it causes coagulation within a day or two at 37° C. In culture it is readily distinguished by its rich orange pigmentation, and is only likely to be confused in this respect with the Sarcina aurantiaca. The staphylococcus aureus shows considerable resistance to un- favourable conditions. Some strains survive heating for an hour at 70° C. even in a moist condition, though many are killed in about half an hour at temperatures between 50° C. and 60° C. It is killed with certainty in half an hour at 80° C. In cultures upon agar or gelatin it will live for a year or more, and when in a dry condition on indiiJerent material it may be found alive and virulent even after many months. Against the more commonly used antiseptics it exhibits moderate resistance. A 3 per cent, solution of carbolic acid kills the organism in a few minutes (5-10), while a 1 per cent, formaldehyde solution requires about an hour to ensure sterility. Mercuric chloride, while inhibiting its growth in quite weak solution, is particularly ineffective as a destructive agent for the staphylococci, since in a strength of 1-1,000 it takes about 20 hours to kill these organisms in a drop of pus. The micro-organism is remarkably susceptible to the action of certain aniline dyes ; thus, methyl violet in a dilution of 1-25,000 will kill it in the course of 15 minutes, and a closely allied dye has been extensively used mider the name of pyoktanin in ophthalmic surgery. The organism produces powerful tryptic ferments, and in cultiva- tion it can liquefy not only gelatin, but frequently coagulated blood- serum also. This fact is of importance in relation to the destruction and disintegration of tissue which occur in conditions of local suppura- tion and abscess formation. In addition to these ferments there are often found in filtered bouillon cultures toxic substances exhibiting haemolytic and leucotoxic (leucocyte-destroying) properties, as well as others which produce upon injection local areas of extensive cell necrosis, or when circulat- ing in the blood occasion special changes in the kidneys, and may even lead to amyloid degeneration in a variety of organs. When inoculated into animals, the living organism leads to the local formation of an abscess, and may produce a general infection terminating in a condition of pysemia. Such a pyjemia usually exhibits numerous secondary foci in the heart and kidneys, and is often accom- panied by suppurative arthritis. Osteo-myelitis hardly ever occm's under such conditions miless a bone has previously been injured. The virulence of the organism is very rapidly increased by passage from animal to animal.