566 TUMOURS was present the disease had in some instances been in existence for many years, it cannot be assumed that a tumour would not eventually develop. The chronicity and intractable nature of the dermatitis are strildng features, so that among the cases collected by Bowlby the disease had existed in one instance for twenty years without the development of a tumour, and in one case of carcinoma the duration of the dermatitis before operation was twelve years. The earliest age at which the disease commenced was 28 years. The tumour which supervenes upon Paget's disease of the nipple is almost invariably the ordinary form of hard carcinoma, but Tliin was of opinion that in the cases examined by him the growth originated in the ducts, and other observers have described a growth arising in the cutaneous structures themselves. In the cases which we have had the oppor- tunity of examining the growth has been of the usual form. In speaking of the various precancerous conditions related to squamous-celled carcinoma, mention has been made of other situations in which a dermatitis apparently identical with Paget's disease of the nipple has been observed ; for instance, the skin of the neck, abdominal wall, scrotum, and gians penis. It is interesting to note that in a case of Sheild's, investigated by Rolleston and Hunt, the dermatitis of the mammary region began around the sinus left by an abscess of the breast, and the fungating growth which developed was a squamous- celled carcinoma of somewhat unusual structure. The most common type of cancer of the breast is the hard form of carcinoma simplex, and on account of its great frequency this has largely served as a basis for the description of the so-called scirrhous carcinoma. The tumour usually presents itself as a comparatively small, hard lump in the substance of the breast, and its macroscopic characters are best studied in a section made cleanly through the breast in such a way as to pass through the nipple and the tumour. As the laiife passes through the latter it encounters a resistant hardness, and a peculiar creaking or gritty sensation is felt, like that felt in cutting through an unripe pear. The divided surface of the tumour is slightly concave or cupped, and, if scraped with the back of the knife, pelds a milky juice consisting of epithelial cells displaced from the tumour. In colour the tumour is grey, and less opaque than the surrounding tissue, and is often marked by fuie spots and streaks of a yellowish-white colour (Plate 33). These are caused by the larger columns of epithelial cells, and not, at least solely, by the presence of ducts blocked by proliferated epithelium, for the same appearance is often seen in the secondary deposits in the lymphatic glands. The tumour is thus clearly distinguished from the surrounding opaque white breast tissue or yellow fat. The margin of the growth is well defined, although inseparably continuous with the surrounding tissues into which pointed