TUMOURS 522 Clinically, the glands, even while still small in size, are usually characterized by their hardness, and as they enlarge they become adherent to the neighbouring glands and to the surrounding structures. Thus, in the glandular deposits in the neck consequent upon carcinoma of the tongue, the overlying sterno-mastoid becomes adherent to the glands and even invaded by the gTowth, whilst the large vessels, especially the internal jugular vein, may be so surrounded by the glandular mass that removal of the disease necessitates removal of part of the vessels also. In advanced cases the glandular disease may involve the sldn, and ulceration occur with the production of one or more openings through which the broken-down growth discharges, until, finally, a huge irregular cavity results, the profuse discharge, and often hsemorrhage, from which hastens the fatal result. In con- sequence of the septic condition of most carcinomatous ulcers of the skin and mucous membranes, a glandular enlargement in such cases may be the result of a simple lymphadenitis, and probably the marked tendency of the secondary glandular deposits in such cases to soften and break down may be partly due to the same cause. The general subject of the metastases of malignant growths has already been considered, and it is unnecessary to refer again to the relative importance of the share taken by the lymphatics and blood-vessels respectively in the spread of the disease (p. 458). Little is known to explain the much greater liability of some parts than others to be the seat of metastases, and it is interesting to note that those parts which are most liable to primary cancer are rarely the seat of secondary growths. It is probable that very sHght differences in the capillary circulation in different organs and tissues may be a not unimportant factor in determining their liability to metastases. This possibility has been considered by von Eecklinghausen in connexion with the widely distributed bone deposits sometimes met with in certain forms of carcinoma, particularly of the thyroid, breast and prostate. He suggests that the peculiar conditions of the circulation in the bones are very favourable to the arrest of cancer cells, and points out that the flow in the vessels of the medulla must at times tend to stagnate on account of the inability of the vessels in the osseous tissue to undergo changes in calibre. A study of the different varieties of cancer, whether considered from the point of view of the structure or the position of the primary growth, reveals a striking difference in their liability to produce metastases. Many of the tumours having the structure of carcinoma simplex exhibit an almost invariable tendency to cause secondary deposits in the bones and viscera, especially the liver and lungs. The squamous-celled and columnar-celled varieties, on the other hand, frequently prove fatal without any evidence of visceral or osseous