PAPILLOMA 447 met with in the small ducts of the rabbit's liver, and due to the presence of psorosperms. Similarly, papillary growths in the rectum and elsewhere may be caused by the Bilharzia hcematobia. Such illustra- tions, which miglit readily be multiplied, are sufficient to show that papillomatous growths are frequently the direct result of chronic irritation. In some respects papillomas, especially of mucous membranes, have a close affinity witli the adenomas. The same tissue elements exist in both tumours, but in different relations, for whereas in the adenoma the epithelium forms a lining to spaces in the stroma, in the papilloma the epithelium covers the surface of the connective-tissue projections. A transitional condition is represented by certain tumours in which the surface has a typical papillomatous structure, whilst in the deeper parts of the tumour epithelium-lined spaces are jn'esent. A tumour of this mixed structure is well illustrated by certain simple tumours of the rectum. Another matter of great practical imjDortance, and often of con- siderable difficulty, is the distinction between simple papillomas and certain malignant growths with a villous or warty surface. The difficulty is chiefly met with in certain jaapillary carcinomas of mucous membranes, as, for instance, of the mouth and bladder. The tumour in such cases is necessarily sessile, and the surface is rarely so markedly or regularly papillary as in a simple tumour, but the essential difference is in the character of the base. The papilloma is entirely an outgrowth from the surface, whereas in the malignant growth, in addition to the outgrowth from the sm'face, there is a downward extension into the deeper tissues. This can often be recognized by careful investigation of the base of the growth, but in all cases microscopic examination should be undertaken. Papilloma of the skin.—Many forms of papillary hyper- trophy affecting tlie sicin are rather of the nature of an inflammatory overgrowth than a true tumour. Thus the simple v:arts which are common, especially on tlie hands in children, are very probably infec- tive. They often develop rapidly and numerously, and may as rapidly disappear, and they not uncommonly affect several members of tlie same family. They consist of a group of enlarged papilhe covered with thickened, horny epithelium. A com results from j^rolonged inter- mittent pressure on the skin, and, except in moist situations, is charac- terized by the formation of a hard, conical, horny thickening. Imme- diately beneath this the papilltB atrophy, but around it they may show a sliglit degree of hypertrophy. In the tissues beneath a corn a small adventitious bursa may be present, and is liable to be the seat of suppuration, Avhich in feeble elderly subjects may lead to serious results.