209 TREATMENT OF GANGRENE spread, and tlie process be repeated several times before the final line of separation appears. Tlie zone of inflammatory hypertemia and increased warmth in the living tissues is so slight that the soft, pale, healthy skin presents a vivid contrast to the hard, darlc, and shrivelled area of gangrene. A.s bone receives a better supply of blood than either skin or muscle, a conical stump is the usual result of spon- taneous separation. When the gangrene is moist, but aseptic, the inflammatory reaction is more marked and the process of separation extends with greater rapidity, though in other respects it does not differ very markedly from the " line that forms in the dry variety. In septic moist gan- grene, however, the inflammatory zone is well defined ; the living tissues are bright-red, turgid with blood, oedematous, hot, and painful, and not infrequently the inflanrmation and its attendant symptoms are aggravated by lymphangitis and extensive cellulitis. If all goes well, the Ime of separation deepens rapidly, and the dead part drops off or falls away from the bone in about ten days. In some instances, owing to extension of the gangrenous process, a line of demarcation, together with an abortive furrow, may form several times before actual separation takes place. This extension usually occurs in connexion with dry or senile gangrene, antl may be due to one of the following causes : (1) the inflammation at the periphery of the dead part, even though very slight, may be relatively too severe for the anasmic living tissues, which consequently succumb ; (2) bacteria may gain access and lead to further necrosis ; (3) the cause which led to the gangrene in the first instance may continue its action on the living tissues. Treatment of gangrene.—Settuig aside the details, which depend so essentially upon the nature and form of the gangrene that tliey are better discussed under their appropriate headings, the general principles of treatment, no matter what the variety of the condition, are clearly defined. When gangrene is threatened, every possible means must be employed to render the part aseptic, by careful shaving, by thorough washing with soap and water (paying j^articular attention to the nails and the folds of the skin), and by enveloping it in a voluminous dressing of dry sterilized gauze and wool. Warmth must be main- tained by hot-water bottles, so arranged that the part cannot come in actual contact with them; and drainage of the fluids must be assisted by the relief of any cause of constriction, by elevation, by gentle friction towards the heart, by promotion of evaporation, or by a timely incision. When gangrene has actually occurred, in addition to the foregoing routine methods, which, besides tenduig to check its spread, also o