BALANITIS—GONORRHCEAL WARTS S37 to swell, and the mucous membrane of the foreskin which lies in front of the constricting ring becomes greatly distended with serous exudation, and may, if unrelieved, become gangrenous. Treatment.—Several times a day the preputial sac should be gently cleansed from all secretion with warm water, and then irrigated with a mild astringent antiseptic solution, such as nitrate of silver (1—5-,000). If the foreskin can be drawn back, a thin layer of gauze soaked in the lotion should be interposed between the glans and the prepuce. Later, when the secretion is lessened, the lotion may be replaced by an astringent dusting-powder, such as oxide of zinc. When the glans cannot be uncovered, the parts under the prepuce must be cleansed and irrigated by means of a wound syringe. If there be much a?dema and cellulitis, evaporating lotions and wet dressings may be apphed to the penis. In cases of severe cellulitis, where gan- grene threatens, the prepuce should be circumcised or divided by a free dorsal incision. PAPILLOMA It frequently happens that numerous small warts develop on the mucous membrane and skin of the genitals of persons suffering from gonorrhoea. Such warts are due to the irritation of the skin and mucous membrane caused by constant bathing with decomposing pus, especially gonorrhceal pus. These warts most frequently grow from the mucous membrane covering the glans penis, more especially about the corona, but they are also foimd on the integument of the penis, the scrotum, the anal region, and the inner part of the thighs, and occasionally within the urethral canal. In the female they are met with springing from the mucous and cutaneous surface of the \T,ilva and perineum. The warts may be single, but usually are multiple, and vary in size from a pin's head to large cauliflower-like growths. Their appearance and consistency differ considerably, according to their situation. If growing from the mucous membrane, where they are kept moist, the epithelium covering them is thin and delicate, so that they readily bleed on being touched. In drier situations they become covered with a hard and horny epithelium. Histologically these growths are true papillomas. The papilhe of the integument arc greatly hypertrophied and cedematous, and are covered with a thickened laj'er of epithelium. They therefore in no way structurally resemble the small-celled infiltration of the syphilitic condylomas, with which they are sometimes confounded. Apart from the fact that they grow in situations where the integu- ment is exposed to the irritating and macerating action of fetid