TUMOURS 388 the strands of fibrous tissue wliich liold together tlie cartilaginous lobules. Ossification is rare, but not unknown, in this variety of chondroma. Shattock has described a case of this nature in which, as the result of ulceration of the overlying skin, the ossified part of the tumour underwent necrosis and spontaneous separation; the same writer also refers to a specimen, in St. Thomas's Hospital Museum, of a large chondroma of the fifth metacarpal bone, the hollowed-out centre of wliich opens by a wide ulcerated opening in the skin. These cartila- ginous tumours of the fingers are unconnected with the articular car- tilage, and it is interesting to note that there is no recorded instance of a true cartilaginous tumour originating in articular cartilage. 3. Cartilaginous tumours of large size occasionally grow from the homj walls of the chest and felvis. In the former situation the tumour, whilst projecting externally, may also encroach upon the thoracic Fig. 61.—Chondroma of a rib, in section. The tumour is attached to the rib close to the costo-chondral junction. cavity. In a case of chondroma of the thoracic wall which came under our notice the tumour projected in the mammary region, and the hard, lobulated tumour, pushing the breast forward, simulated to a certain extent a tumour in the breast itself. Although when of large size such a tumour so obscures the ribs as to appear to involve a consider- able area of the chest-waU, it is probable that it originates from a single lib in the vicinity of the costal cartilage. A small tumour of this nature is illustrated in Fig. 61, the part of the rib, with the tumour attached, having been removed by operation without injury to the parietal pleura, which was, however, very intimately adherent to the surface of the tumour. Similar cartilaginous tumours occasionally arise from the bones of the pelvis. The specimen illustrated in Fig. 62 was from a woman aged 21, who was under the care of Herbert Spencer in University College Hospital. The tumour, which was known to have been grow-