CONJUNCTIVITIS 845 very common, and has been described fully in the section on Posterior Urethritis. A cystitis apart from this—that is to say, in which the whole or greater part of the mucous membrane of the bladder is involved —is not, as it is commonly beUeved to be, a frequent complication of gonorrhoea, and, as its symptoms and treatment are practically those of posterior urethritis, it is unnecessary to describe it further. NEPHRITIS An inflammation of the kidney arises occasionally in connexion with urethritis, both in its acute and chronic stages. It may be brought about through a metastatic deposit in the kidney tissue or as an ascending inflammation from the bladder by means of the ureter. It is a complication of gonorrhoea which is frequently overlooked. Its symptoms and treatment are dealt with elsewhere. GONORRHOEA RECTALIS The mucous membrane of the rectum is occasionally the seat of a gonorrhceal inflammation. This is far more frequent in the female than in the male, and is generally due to a lack of cleanliness on the part of the patient, causing the anal mucous membrane to become contaminated by the urethral discharge. The symptoms begin with a sense of heat and discomfort about the anus ; the mucous mem- brane becomes swollen and prolapsed and, at a later period, is often excoriated and deeply fissured. The diagnosis rests upon the detection of the gonococcus in the pus. Treatment.—In the acute stages the bovvel should be cleansed with warm, mild antiseptic solutions, such as protargol and perman- ganate of potash, and the pain relieved by anodyne suppositories. In the chronic form strong astringent solutiojis and ointments are indicated. CONJUNCTIVITIS Some mention must be made, for the sake of completeness, of the above serious complication ; for further details the reader is referred to text-books on the diseases of the eye. The disease most frequently attacks the new-born infant (ophthalmia neonatorum), infection taking place at the time of birth from some vaginal secretion of the mother finding its way into the infant's eyes. More rarely the eye, whether of child or of adult, becomes infected by some specific pus being conveyed by a dirty finger, sponge, etc. (ophthalmia gonorrhoica adultorum). Whatever be the mode of infection, the disease manifests itself after a period of incubation of from two to five days. The conjunctiva becomes injected, swollen and cedematous, and secretes a profuse purulent and highly infective