THE PATIENT'S POSITION 677 apertures. A thermometer in the hollow rod indicates the tempera- ture of the chloroform below, and a water-jacket surrounding the chamber keeps the temperature between certain limits. The best-known inhaler made on the vacuum principle is that of Professor Vernon-Harcourt (Fig. 190), the features of which may be imderstood from the figure. In using this instrument, important points to ob- serve, in order that the vapour inhaled may correspond with the strength registered on the dial, are (1) to hold the face-piece in perfect adaptation to the face, allowing no air-entry round one edge, and (2) not to shake the instrument to any considerable extent. The inhaler admits of a maximum percentage of 2, but this can be increased to 2■.5 or 3 by means of a small tube which is provided to fit on to the open neck of the bottle. Even so, however, there are instances, in the case of difficult subjects, when with this apparatus induction is un- pleasantly tedious. POSITION OF PATIENT The routine position for the patient during ausesthesia has been mentioned, but there are certain cases in which it cannot be adopted and in which the position given to the patient's head or trunk is a matter of prime importance, both as regards safety and the surgeon's convenience. These must be briefly mentioned. First come all those cases in which in the course of operations blood enters the mouth, pharynx, or posterior nares, and may be in- haled. In all such cases, of which tonsil and adenoid operations provide the most familiar examples, the patient should be placed completely on his right side, if the surgeon can operate in that position. If he finds it necessary to have the head in the middle line, then only a light anaesthesia, which allows of coughing, or else repeated sponging away of blood, is to be resorted to. In long operations upon the tongue or upon the inside of the nose the same rule applies, but here it is often possible, by means of a sponge inserted at the back of the mouth, to exclude blood from the glottis and to permit of deep ansesthesia, even with a patient on his back and his head straight, or in a semi- recumbent position, as the surgeon chooses. In cases of empyema, where there is only one freely acting lung, it is essential that this Fig. 190.—Vernon- Harcourt's chloro- form inhaler.