172 SUPPURATION Passive acquired immunity is induced by injecting into a sus- ceptible host the serum from an animal which has actively immunized itself by having suffered from the effects of the same micro-organism. Unfortunately, it is at present diiiicult or impossible to apply this method of establishing immunity in treatment against the micro- organisms capable of inducing suppuration. Local susceptibility can be induced by disease or injury, and a part injured before or after inoculation may be the focus of suppuration, although the micro-organisms were introduced elsewhere. I have shown in another place that in some acute and chronic infective processes this local susceptibility must be related in some degree to the nervous control of a part, and have suggested that it was a neurotrophic condition wliich allowed infection in the affected area and prevented it in adjoining areas. Apart from tliis suggested neurotrophic influence on infective processes, it must be admitted that the neurovascular state must be an important factor in influencing the course of infective processes ; but it cannot be imagined that changes in the neurovascular state can account for the selection of one nerve area and the escape of its immediate neighbour. Amongst other cases which I have collected bearing on this point is one in which the regions described by Henry Head as the nasal regions were picked out by erysipelas (streptococcus) which never spread to neighbouring areas. The extreme localization of such a case cannot have been due to pure neurovascular changes ; hence I suggested the neurotrophic explanation. Dissemination.—Many micro-organisms are themselves motile, being possessors of flagella, but those without flagella seem to be equally liable to dissemination. It must be borne in mind that an increase in the area of distribution of the micro-organisms is not necessarily followed by an increase in the area of suppuration. The pre-existing channels and cavities by wliich dissemination is facilitated are the blood- and lymph-vessels ; the meningeal, pleural, peritoneal, synovial, and mucous cavities ; the tendon sheaths and the bursas communicating with them ; the nasal and genito-urinary mucous membranes and their communications; and the ducts of glands. I think that the frequency of dissemination or generalization of micro-organisms is not generally appreciated. I have shown by experi- ments that, even when an inoculation is manifested only in a local suppuration, the inoculated host passes through a general as well as a local infection, although the clinical features may not give evidence of this process. I found in one series of experiments that, in an animal killed five minutes after an inoculation of staphylococci into the subcutaneous tissue, the same micro-organism could be stained