2S4 WOUNDS AND WOUND TREATMENT precaution is especially necessary if he sufier from any infection of the mouth or nose. The cap and mask may be made in one piece, but many surgeons prefer them separate. A simple and comfortable mask may be made by stitching tapes at the four corners of a square of fourfold gauze ; the upper pair of tapes is tied round the head above the ears, the lower round the neck. Rubber gloves are, in our opinion, desirable, but must not be allowed to become an excuse for inefficient disinfection of the hands, which should be treated as carefully as if no gloves are to be worn. The objections urged against their use are—(a) that they predispose to carelessness in preparation of the hands : the answer to this is obvious ; (b) that by acting as a moist dressing they induce sweating, and so release from the deeper layers of the skin organisms which, in the event of an injury to the glove, gain access to the wound : to some degree this is obviated by the use of sterilized gloves put on dry, but to a certain extent the validity of this objection must be theo- retically granted ; and (c) that they interfere with the sense of touch : if thin gloves, roughened on the surface to prevent slipping, and sterilized dry, be used, the surgeon will, after short experience, suffer no inconvenience on this score. The advantages of dry sterilization of the gloves are : (1) The sodden condition of the skin is avoided which causes diminution of the tactile sense, probably encourages the escape of micro-organisms from the deeper to the more super- ficial layers, and afterwards predisposes to roughening of the hands. (2) If the hands be immersed in spirit, dried, and powdered with sterilized talc, they will slip into well-fitting gloves more readily than if they are wet. Even if the surgeon dislikes gloves for clean cases, there is no doubt that in septic cases their use is imperative for his own protection, not only at the time of operation, but also for each dressing. It is essential that the gloves chosen should accurately fit the hands. Tightness induces a cramped feeling if the operation be long, whilst imdue looseness leads to needle punctures and consequent failure in the object desired. The value of special boots for use in the operating theatre is doubtful; but as a protection for the surgeon's trousers and boots, sailcloth over-shoes, which can be boiled, or rubber sea-boots, are suitable. Hands and arms.—Though the thorough sterilization of the hands is unattainable, the greatest care and sufficient time must be devoted to rendering them as clean as possible. The nails must be cut short, all frayed skin and hang-nails removed, the grooves round the bed of the nail thoroughly freed from dirt with a nail-brush, and the hands and arms deliberately scrubbed with soap, first in lathery