PRIMARY ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE 317 may be necessary and lead to gangrene ; (3) ligature of the main artery may not stop the hajmorrhage if an extensive anastomotic cir- culation is present ; (4) the source of the artery that is bleeding may be difficult to determine and the wrong artery may be ligatured in continuity. A patient died from haemorrhage after ligature of the superficial femoral artery in Hmiter's canal to stop bleeding from a deep punctured wound on the inner side of the thigh. At the autopsy the severed artery was found to be a branch of the profunda femoris. In certain situations, especially in the case of deep punctured wounds, ligature of the main artery in continuity is the correct treat- ment, as exposing the severed vessel and ligaturing it in situ might cause serious damage to surrounding structures. These situations are— (1) TJie paint of the hand, when the bleeding comes from the deep palmar arch. Here ligature of the radial and ulnar at the wrist or the brachial in the arm is to be preferred to local ligature, on account of the numerous tendons and tendon sheaths in the palm of the hand. (2) TJte face and neck, in bleeding from the deep branches of the external carotid, such as the internal maxillary and the occipital as it lies deep in the mastoid process. Many of the subdivisions of the branches of the external carotid run in bony canals, and ligature of them would be exceedingly difficult and would necessitate serious damage and disfigurement; hence ligature of the main artery at the seat of election between the su|)erior thyroid and the lingual branches is to be preferred. (3) The branches of the internal carotid.—These arteries are found inside the cranium, supplying the brain, and ligature in situ is impos- sible. If a diagnosis is made and treatment is attempted, either the common or the internal carotid artery should be ligatured in the neck. Ligatures.—The most commonly used ligature for securing arteries is catgut, either plain or chromieized. The plain catgut is used for small arteries and is quicldy absorbed, whilst the larger arteries are usually ligatured with chromieized gut, which is stronger and lasts longer in the tissues. The ligature should be tied with sufficient force to ruptm-e the internal coat only. Silk has been largely used for the ligature of arteries, but it has the disadvantage of being uon-absorb- able, and so always forms a foreign body which may ultimately be discharged by suppuration. Torsion.—Arteries—even the larger ones—may be secured by torsion, which has the advantage of not leaving any foreign body in the wound. The vessel is seized with torsion forceps, which are then twisted six to eight times and removed without ha?niorrhage occurring. In modern aseptic surgery the risk of infection by a ligature is small, and the majority of surgeons prefer to depend on sterile ligatures for any arteries except the smallest.