TUMOURS confound a myeloma of the femur or tibia with tuberculous disease of the joint. Lastly, it must be remembered that a pulsating tumour of a bone, such as a myeloma or sarcoma, may present a superficial resemblance to an aneurysm, as, for instance, when the pulsating part of the tumour projects from the femur or tibia into the popliteal space, or from the humerus into the axilla. Myeloma of the jaws is more common in the mandible than in the maxilla. The tumour usually begins in the interior of the al- veolus and, as it increases, tends to project beneath the gum as a soft reddish mass, which can usually be distinguished from a fibrous epulis by its more rapid growth, softer consistence, and darker colour. In other cases the tumour, when affecting the mandible, extends into the body of the bone, expanding it and thinning the osseous tissue so as to allow egg-shell crackling to be demonstrated. In the maxilla the tumour may in rare instances I extend into the antrum. The i expansion of the mandible caused ^. „ ^ , . by a central myeloma must be Fig. 70.—Radiogram of a myeloma in ,. ,. • i i x the lower extremity of the radius. distingmshed from various m- flammatory enlargements and {_EvL\ Clin. Soc. Trans., vol. xxxiii.) , -, . . from other descriptions of central new growths, especially a dentigerous cyst. Treatment The least extensive measure which can be applied to the removal of a myeloma is to open up the affected part of the bone and thoroughly clear out the tumour together with the surround- ing osseous tissue. Such a simple measure has been successfully adopted in certain myelomas of the jaws and even of the long bones of the hmbs. In some situations, as, for instance, when the disease involves the upper extremity of the humerus, the head of the fibula, the head of the radius, the lower ends of the radius or ulna, or either end of the clavicle, a good result has followed excision of the affected part of the bone. In a case of myeloma of the patella. Lister removed the bone and excised the articular extremities of the femur and tibia in order to secure ankylosis of the knee. When amputation is inevitable,