INFLAMMATION ii6 again, tlie character of the cells in an exudate may suggest malignant disease as the causal factor, yet those who have studied the cells most fully would probably be the last to say, on such evidence, that any given case was malignant. Therefore, no excuse is needed for dealing very fully with the cytology of inflammatory exudates, and, necessarily in association with it, the tissue changes which are con- cerned in the reparative processes. 1. Polymorphonuclear leucocytes. ^—Tliese leucocytes, which are formed in the bone-marrow, are the principal cells of the blood, constituting about 70 per cent, of the total leucocytes. They are characterized by a nucleus which is segmented, the lobes varying in number, and being connected with one another by narrow strands of chromatin. The cytoplasm is fairly abundant, and shows small, irregularly scattered granules, which stain red with eosin. These cells are formed from the large mononuclear myelocytes, and, in the bone-marrow, various stages in the process of their evolution may be seen. In some diseased conditions—e.g. leucocythsemia—these transitional forms appear in the blood, and may pass from the blood into inflammatory exudates. At inflammatory foci, in people whose bone-marrow is not abnor- mal, the polymorphonuclear leucocytes are present in about three hours after the inoculation has taken place, and become increasingly abundant in from eighteen to twenty-four hours (Plate 12). This increase goes on progressively until the irritant has been overcome or the infected individual has succumbed. In cases in which these cells are able to overcome the noxious agent, there may be, compared with the other cells present, a marked diminution of the polymorphs in thirty-six to forty-eight hours (Plate 13, Fig. 1). This is still more evident in from sixty to seventy-two hours, and in from eighty-four to one hundred and fifty hours the polymorphonuclear leucocytes may have completely disappeared from the exudate. In cases where the inflammatory reaction causes death, a pro- gressive increase of these cells takes place (Plate 13, Fig. 2). In fact, they, continue to migrate in enormous numbers so long as the need for defence exists and the strain of increased production can be borne by the blood-forming tissues, the bone-marrrow, etc. The imperfect and scanty production of these cells in the early stages of an inflam- mation often means a bad prognosis, for it points to an exhausted bone-marrow wliich cannot respond to the stimulus that is being applied to it, and cannot, therefore, produce the great cellular defen- sive agents of the body. The time-results of the reactions which are given above are based on a series of experiments carried out by me, and are sum- marized as follows :—