SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 48 thus separated. The operation is performed, with blood from the j atient, and with blood from the control individual (or group of individuals). The serums thus obtained should be used as quickly as possible, that is to say, while they are still quite fresh. 3. Preparation of bacterial suspension.—In the case of rapidly growing micro-organisms a little of a 'Zi-hour-old sloped-agar surface culture is taken and rubbed up in a few drops of 0"85 per cent, saline solution, the resulting emulsion is added to several c.c. of saline solution in a tube and centrifugalized to get rid of any unbroken masses or clumps of imdLssociated bacteria. The fluid suspension is pipetted off, and diluted until it shows only a very faint turbidity, when, according to Wright, it will contain the most appropriate number of bacteria. In the case of organisms wliich only grow on special media, or grow very slowly, suitable cultures must be used for preparing the bacterial suspension. In the case of the B. tuberctilosis it is probably most convenient for those who are not expert bacteriologists to purchase one of the preparations stocked by wholesale chemists, and make up from this a suspension of the proper strength in 1 '5 per cent, saline solution. The test is carried out in the following way : A piece of glass tubing is drawn out at one end into a capillary tube, and the other end is provided with a rubber nipple. A mark is made on the capillary about an inch from its lower end, and to tliis mark serum is drawn up, a small air-bubble is admitted, and the bacterial suspension is drawn up to the same mark. The two portions of fluid are then blown out upon a clean slide, sucked up again, and again blown out several times to ensure complete mixing. The mixture is now drawn up into the tube, a small air- bubble admitted and leucocyte suspension (which has been previously well mixed by gentle shaking) is taken in to the mark. The whole is blown out upon the slide and mixed as before. The fluid is finally taken up into the pipette, a little air admitted, and the end of the capillary sealed up in a small flame. Two pipettes are thus prepared, the one with normal serum and the other with the serum under investigation. The pipettes are incubated at 37° C. for a quarter of an hour, are then opened at the point, the contents are again well mixed, and films prej)ared. These are either fixed in corrosive- sublimate solution for a few seconds and then well washed and stained, or fixed and stained by using Leishman's stain. In each film the number of bacteria in not less than 100 leucocytes (pre- ferably 200) is counted, and the average number per leucocyte thus arrived at. The ratio which this average in the case of the patient bears to the average in the control prepared with normal serum is called the opsonic index of the patient's serum. III. SPECIAL BACTERIA I. COCCI Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus (Plate 2, Figs. 1 and 2). —The connexion of niicrococci which grew in clusters with many sup- purative conditions had been studied by Koch, Pasteur, and Ogston,