«8 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY chsete on artificial media, and to produce the disease experimentally by the inoculation of pure cultures, yet there appears to be sufi&cient evidence that it is undoubtedly the specific causal agent of syphilis, and it is so accepted at the present time. The micro-organism is a screw-shaped body with sharp turns, bent like a corkscrew whose successive coils are closely set together. The two extremities tend to be straightened out and somewhat pointed. Measured in a straight line, it covers a length of 4-15 and the width of the thread is 0'J.-0'2 jx. The number of coils exhibited may vary greatly, and may be as few as 5 or 6, or as many as 20 or more. When examined in fresh syphilitic material the organism is seen to be very actively motile, and movements of rotation round the long axis, flexion in its length, and alternating advance and retrogression take place rapidly. The screw shape is maintained throughout these movements. The organism is difficult to stain by the ordinary methods em- ployed for bacteria, but stains quite readily by Romanowsky's or by Oiemsa's method (p. 40), after the tissue or the film of fresh material has been fixed in absolute alcohol. In fresh syphilitic material the spirochsete is readily demonstrated by Burri's indian-ink method. Some of the suspected matter is emul- sified in a little water, and a minute quantity is taken up with a fine drawing-pen, which is then dipped into a series of tiny drops of Indian ink upon a slide one after another, as if making dilutions. The drops are allowed to dry, and examined without cover-glass with the oil- immersion lens. The spirochsete stands out brilliantly white upon the grey-black background. In cases of suspected syphilis in which the attempt to discover typical spirochtetes in the lesions proves unsuccessful, valuable assist- ance in the diagnosis may be obtained by employing the Wassermann syphilis reaction (p. 46). Ducrey's bacillus (bacillus of soft sore).—This organism was described by Ducrey, in 1889, as occurring constantly in ulcus molle, and he showed that by a series of inoculations of the skin, the first of which was made from the pus of a soft sore, the second from the lesion caused by the first inoculation, and so on, he could succeed in obtaining a pure culture of the organism in a sore having the typical appearances of an ulcus molle. Ducrey's results were shortly afterwards confirmed by Krefting, who found the bacillus in a series of 13 cases of soft chancre, as well as by a number of later observers. Krefting also showed that the bacillus may be present in pure culture in the buboes which frequently accompany the condition. The organism has not been found in any other ulcerative condition