CARCINOMA OF THE TONGUE 537 itself as a distinct growth on the previously healthy mucous membrane, but usually appears as a modification of a previously existing chronic inflammatory lesion. Butlin, whose experience of the disease is un- rivalled, has recorded a series of cases illustrating the earliest stages of cancer of the tongue—conditions previously regarded as precancerous, but wliich were proved to be actual cancer by careful investigation in the laboratory of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund. Four con- ditions are specially described by Butlin : 1, a flat very slightly raised, smooth, red, glazed plaque, feeling like a thin piece of gristle in the surface of the tongue, and closely resembling a primary syphilitic lesion ; 2, a white, warty growth, not ulcerated, and scarcely indurated at its base ; 3, a slight thickening and hardening of an old leucoplakic area ; 4, a nodular j^laque, red, and beginning to ulcerate, with drawing-in of the surrounding tissues. A carcinoma on the side of the tongue tends at an early stage to draw upon the mucous membrane passing from the tongue to the floor of the mouth, and thus the tongue at the affected part is fixed or " anchored," so that when protruded the tip deviates towards the affected side. As the disease spreads, it tends to assume one of two forms : in one it retains a warty character, and in the other ulcerates and fungates, destroying the substance of the tongue extensively, although sometimes showing a marked tendency to be limited by the middle line. Lenthal Cheatle, from his observations on the mode of spread of cancer in the substance of the tongue, believes that it is determined largely by the arrangement of the muscles. He finds that when the disease begins in the anterior two-thirds of the organ, the hyo-glossus is the muscle first invaded, and, in a case in which the tongue had been removed by an intrabuccal method, a deposit of growth was found in the part of this muscle which had been left. The distribution of the lymphatics of the tongue in relation to the spread of carcinoma has been carefully studied by Kiittner and Poirier, whilst in this country Butlin has placed the operative treatment of the disease and its lymphatic extensions upon a scientific basis. It is a fact of clinical interest that the gland which lies over the bifurcation of the common carotid artery, situated below and behind the angle of the lower jaw, is usually the first that is palpably enlarged in cancer of the tongue, but before reaching this gland the lymphatics from the diseased area of the tongue have already passed through other glands which, although not necessarily palpable, are probably involved. The lymphatics from the tip of the tongue pass to the submental glands ; those from the lateral border pass to glands which lie around and in the submaxillary salivary gland ; while the most posterior enter a group of glands lying between the large vessels and the parotid gland. From these various