COLLECTION OF FLUIDS FOR EXAMINATION 35 In all cases special care must be taken in collecting the fluid not to infect it from the skin or elsewhere. Otherwise the isolation and identification of the actual causal agent will be rendered difficult or even impossible, and the whole fluid may be overgrown by extraneous organisms. The presence of antiseptics must be carefully avoided, since they may entirely prevent the subsequent cultivation of the micro-organisms present. Pus.—Wlien possible, pus should be collected in a sterile syringe through the unbroken skin. If this is undesu'able or impracticable, the first portion of the pus should be allowed to flow away from an opened abscess, for example, before the sample is taken for examination. In the case of open suppurating wounds and sinuses, the superficial parts should first be cleansed with sterilized cotton-wool and sterile water (not an antiseptic), and tlie sample of pus obtained from the deeper part of the wounds where contaminating sapro- phytic organisms are less likely to have penetrated. In some cases where there is relatively little pus and a long sinus or other open channel, the best results may often be obtained by freely irrigating the external portion, and then passing in a swab, like a cUphtheria throat- swab, and carefully swabbing over the walls of the cavity. At times it may be necessary to leave such a swab in place for a quarter of an hour or so to soak up the discharge (e.g. in seeking for gonococci in the cervix uteri in chronic cases of gonorrhoeal infection). Blood.—In collecting blood it is important to secure a sufficient quantity to enable the examination required to be carried out easihj, and in such a way as to give the most reliable results. For agglutinin readinns (Widal), not less than 1 c.c. of blood should be obtained. This can easily be taken either from the lobe of the ear or from the finger, by making a number of small jiricks quite near together, with a fine needle-point, or even better with a sharply drawn-out bit of glass. This method is both less painful to the patient and usually gives more blood than a single deeper prick. The finger or ear being previously cleaned up, the blood is allowed to run into a spindle tube with capillary ends, or a dwarf test-tube 2^ in. long by ^ in. wide. When enough has been obtained, the spindle-shaped tube is sealed up, or the test-tube closed with a sterile rubber stopper, and set aside for the blood to coagulate. The usual practice is to collect the blood for a Widal reaction in a capillary (vaccine) tube. Though the amount of blood thus got is small, yet for some purjjoses it may be found sufficient; and in many cases difficulties are experienced in collecting larger quantities of blood, owing to want of practice, or to inattention to the directions given above. For the sijfhilis reaction (Wassermanns sero-diagnosis). o c.c. of blood will be required, and should be obtained by inserting a sterile all-glass syringe into a superficial vein in the arm or hand. If the needle have a sufficient bore the blood will flow into the syringe of itself, pushing the piston back. The use of anticoagulants is to be avoided, for there is no danger of the blood coagulating in the syringe before it can be transferred to a test-tube if the operation be properly performed, and the addition of these substances may interfere with the success of the subsequent examination. If the blood is to be examined for the presence of bacteria, it is desirable