X-RAY EXAMINATION 648 in the right anterior oblique direction (Holtzknecht), the thoracic shadows are very complex, for the rays are directed so as to penetrate the chest obliquely at an angle of 45° from belund forwards, and from left to right. Seen in this way, the shadow corresponding to the vertebral column can be made out, and in front of, but separated from it by a clear space, in the upper part, lies a narrow rectangular shadow, corresponding to the superimposed shadows of the ascending and descending aorta, which expands in the lower part into a large triangular opaque area representing the heart, the clear space between the vertebral column and the shadow of the aorta and heart being the posterior mediastinum. A good illustration of the appearance presented by the thorax, viewed in this direction, is to be seen in Plate 67, Fig. 1, a radiogram showing a bismuth meal retained in the lower portion of the oesophagus. Thus it is possible to view the 'arch of the aorta in two directions, one at an angle of 45° to the other, and any bulging of the walls of the arch, as in aneurysm, can be recognized. Examination with the screen, as well as by radiogram, is necessary in the diagnosis of this disease, for pulsation of the walls of the sac of the aneurysm may thus be observed, though tliis is by no means always present. Radio- graphically, the extreme density, abruptness, and sharpness of outline of the sac materially assist its recognition. An example of thoracic aneurysm is illustrated in Plate 66, Fig. 4, wliere an abrupt, sharply- defined increase of the median opacity towards the left is to be seen —an appearance which suggests involvement of the junction of the descending and transverse portions of the arch. DISEASES OF THE CESOPHAGUS Carcinoma.—The presence of new growth in the oesophagus may be observed by X-ray examination of the thorax. Thus, in the postero- anterior view, it may be associated towards the left with an increase of the normal median opacity, which presents an irregular margin, and is diiiuse in character. Viewed in the right lateral oblique direction, the posterior mediastinum is found to be increased in opacity in the position corresponding to the growth. Such observations as these may lead one to suspect the presence of a new growth of the oesophagus, but further proof is necessary in order to make the diagnosis certain.- The patient is directed to swallow some mouthfuls of bismuth food (bread-and-milk containing bismuth carbonate), the observer thus being able to note the passage of the meal through the oesophagus. For this purpose the patient is placed in such a position that a right lateral oblique view is obtained, and the posterior mediastinum clearly out- lined. Tw o or three spoonfuls of bismuth meal are placed in the mouth.