DELHI BOIL 855 possibly of a herpetomonas. In artificial culture they change shape, becoming elongated and each developing a flagellum. As seen in the granuloma of Delhi boil, the bodies are recognized by having two masses of chromatin—one, the nucleus, large and not very rich in chromatin ; the other, the micronucleus, or centrosome, small, compact, and staining deeply with chromatin stains. These two unequal chromatin masses are characteristic of the flagellates. The parasites are found in considerable numbers, usually enclosed in large mononuclear cells. They are 3-5 /u. in average diameter, but are rarely spherical ; more frequently they are oval, and may be pointed at both ends—oat-shaped. Leishman's stain brings out the points of these parasites well, but carbol fuchsin, diluted with three parts of water, is quite sufficient for their recognition. If this stain be used, the films must be fixed in alcohol, or alcohol and ether in equal parts, before they are stained. The diagnosis is easy if microscopical examinations are made without these it is difficult, though the chronicity, the thick crusts, the absence of deep ulceration, the raised, thickened edge, and the absence of purulent discharge should arouse suspicion. Prognosis.—Spontaneous cure takes place in all cases, but the ulcers may persist for a year, or even more. There is no danger to life, and the scars are superficial and in most cases inconspicuous. Treatment is not very successful, and may lead to more marked scarring than if natural healing takes place. The cure may be expedited by excision of the ulcers. Strong escharotics are to be avoided, but the light application of potassa fusa stick may be followed by rapid healing. Dressing with solutions of copper sulphate, beginning with 1 per cent, and increasing to 5 per cent., is a slow but satisfactory method of dealing with these ulcers. Steady compression by bandaging or by strapping a thin piece of sheet-lead over the sores is strongly advocated by some writers. LEISHMAN NODULES Thomson and Balfour describe under the name of Leishman nodules a non-ulcerating sldn disease wliicli occurs in the Sudan, and in which are found bodies similar in many respects to those seen in Delhi boil. Tumours form in the skin and appear as soft, pink, cheloid- like, raised growths, which are usually multiple and occur on the face, neck, shoulders, arms, and thighs. They commence as small points- wliich increase in size ; around these, fresh tumours appear and coalesce with the primary growth, so that large, irregular masses are formed. They do not rdcerate, but run a very chronic course and may persist for years. Madden states that similar growths are seen in Egypt, and that the Leishman-Donovan body has been found in them by