SPINAL ANALGESIA 692 4. Venous engorgement, straining, and vomiting are absent.—As there is no respiratory spasm there is no backward pressure on the venous system, consequently such operations as excision of the rectum and prostatectomy can be conducted with little loss of blood. Slight retching may be seen now and then, but it rarely lasts more than a few moments and does not endanger respiration. Straining is never seen except as the result of this retching. 5. Muscular relaxation is one of the chief features of spinal analgesia ; it is extremely marked, and its value is obvious in all hernial operations. 6. Retention of consciousness.—This, although considered disadvantageous by some, is often a great help, for in cases in which a laparotomy has disclosed some condition imsuspected before opera- tion the consent to further interference can at once be obtained. 7. The absence of post-operative shock is perhaps the greatest of all arguments in favour of this method. When analgesia has been fully established, shock is unknown. Moreover, in cases where a severe injury has occurred, much of the shock may be avoided and its increase prevented by the use of spinal analgesia. 8. The dang-er of sudden asphyxia from falling back of the tongue, or of inhalation of vomit, is avoided—an inestimable gain where the latter is fascal. 9. The services of a special nurse can be dispensed Vi^ith, the patient being, as a rule, very well able to manage for him- self on return to bed. 10. The presence of friends immediately after opera- tion is possible, and, although undesirable, may yet be imperatively necessary for business reasons. 11. In the absence of an anaesthetist, especially in out-of-the- way parts of the world, spinal analgesia is often of the greatest service. 12. In cases v^^here patients have unavoidably to be operated upon after a full meal, the washmg out of the stomach often induces collapse : a full stomach is no bar to spinal analgesia. 13. The cost of all spinal analgesics is much lower than that of ether or chloroform. This is a very great saving in hospital practice. Disadvantages of the method. 1. Retention of con- sciousness.—If it is seriously urged that it is midesirable that the patient should see things which might frighten him, or hear remarks not intended for him, the remedy is very simple. A screen arranged as shown in Fig. 196 will overcome the first, and some damp cotton- wool in his ears the second of these objections.