ADENOMA 443 Two varieties of multilocular ovarian cyst are usually recognized— the simple and the papillomatous. In the simple variety the cysts contain a mucoid fluid, colourless or stained brown with blood pigment. In the larger cysts the fluid becomes more serous. It is among tumours of this variety that the enormous dimensions above mentioned may be reached. In tlie papillomatous form the cysts usually contain serous fluid, and the intracystic growths may take the form of small, scattered, villous tufts, or larger, cauliflower-like masses, which may completely occupy the cysts. Occasionally tin- papillomatous growths may project through the ruptured wall of a cyst and continue to grow on its surface. In rare instances the cells detached from a ruptured ovarian cyst may, by implantation, give rise to multiple papillary growths on the peritoneum, which are, however, of little practical significance. A much more important result has been observed to follow the ruptm'e of a mucinous cyst into the peritoneum. The mucin-secreting cells become implanted on various parts of the peritoneum and give rise to the accumulation of enormous masses of mucinous material. This condition has received the name pseudo-myxoma peritonei. Although it cannot be dealt with radically by operation, relief may be afforded by the periodical renioval of the masses of mucinous growth. It is an important fact that in a small jjercentage of cases of papillomatous ovarian cyst the disease pursues a malignant course, although the tumour may not, to the naked eye, differ from a simple tumour. Examined microscopically, the cysts of a simple mucinous cystic adenoma are found to be lined with a single layer of columnar epi- thelial cells, the free extremities of which are distended with mucin (Fig. 99). In the fibrous tissue surrounding the cysts are seen in places tubules, lined with columnar or cubical cells, which have originated by outgrowths from the cysts themselves. In the papillo- matous form the intracystic growths are covered with a cubical or columnar epithelium. The origin of the ovarian cystic adenoma has been very variously interpreted, but the view most generally accepted at tlie present time is that the tumour arises in collec- tions of cells of the germinal epithehum which have suft'ered arrest of development. Adenoma of the sebaceous glands.—It has already been pointed out that the name adenoma has been incorrectly applied to certain chronic inflammatory afi'ectious of the skin in wliich a hyperplasia of the sebaceous glands is a marked feature. True seba- ceous adenomas are imdoubtedly rare, unless the view held by Bland- Sutton and some other pathologists is accepted, that certain tumours