TERTIARY SYPHILIS 739 suddenly to change for the worse, any skin lesions present ulcerate and suppurate, the ulcers spread, and the patient becomes weak and cachectic. In others tertiary syphilis manifests itself in hemiplegia, paraplegia, and other nervous phenomena, and generally these cases are rapid and severe. But the majority of tertiary signs occur in the third and fourth years, or later, and present themselves in the following tissues and organs in sequence : (1) the skin, (2) the nervous system, (3) the bones, (4) the mucous membranes and viscera. Some authorities believe that tertiary syphilis is not true syphilis, but that it is a chronic condition left behind by the active disease ; but, seeing that the tertiary lesions may coexist with the secondary, this belief seems illogical, and the discovery of the S. follida in ter- tiary lesions points to their being due to the same condition as secondary syphilis, modified, no doubt, by the attenuation of the virus, etc. It has been proved that syphilis can be reproduced by inoculation with matter taken from gumraata and other tertiary lesions. The chief causes of tertiary syphilis are inadequate treatment, overwork, enervating climate, and excesses of all kinds (more especially alcoholism). Malaria is also a very special adjunct to tertiary syiihilis. Cutaneous and subcutaneous affections.—Gummatous syphilides are typical of tertiary syphilis. The perivascular cell infiltration forms an inflammatory neoplasm in the skin, which has a tendency to soften and to ulcerate. Some of these syjjhilides become ulcerated almost from the commencement, whilst others ulcerate at one part and heal at another. Simple gummatous syphilides.—The gummatous syphilide is of two kinds—simple and ulcerative. The former (Plate 77) is formed by dark-red, copper-coloured nodules of slow evolution. The extending margin of this syphilide is circinate or serpiginous. After healing, a brown macule is left, followed by depressed cicatrix, and there is destruction of tissue without ulceration. Ulcerative gummatous syphilides (Plate 78).—These syphilides may consist of a number of nodules which eventually coalesce, or of a single large nodule with extensive serpiginous ulceration. Progress is slow and painless; inflammatory reaction is absent. The lesion may undergo resolution without any treatment; on the other hand, it may persist for years. Generally, specific treatment has a marked effect. Under this the lesion heals rapidly, leaving a cicatrix which, at first pigmented, ultimately becomes a white depression, circular or annular in shape. Subcutaneous gummata appear as nodules in the hypo- dermic tissue. They are hard, painless, and freely movable at first: but later on they become caseated and adherent to the skin, which