HAEMORRHAGE: TRANSFUSION 313 It may therefore be laid down as a general rule that all stimulants, alcoholic and otherwise, are to be avoided until the blood-vessels have been securely ligatured. When this has been done, stimulants may be •of use in maintaining the heart's action until more efficacious methods •of treating shock due to excessive loss of blood can be carried out. This question will be furtlier discussed under the Treatment of Shock (p. 331). The lower the blood pressure falls the greater the tendency to the formation of clot in the mouths of the blood-vessels, and in cases •of concealed haemorrhage and in hfcmorrhage from the lungs and intes- tines the life of the patient depends upon the formation of this clot. To raise the blood pressure, even for a time, by giving stimulants is bad surgery, and may directly cause the patient's death. Transfusion and infusion.—After all hfemorrhage has been securely arrested the strongest indication in the general treatment of the condition is to supply the vascular system with the fluid which has been lost, and so maintain the blood pressure on which life dej)ends and effectually nourish tlie tissues. The indication can be met by directly transfusing living blood from another human being into the veins of the patient. Direct transfusion, in spite of its obvious ■difficulties, has been tried at various times for centuries, Init it is only recently that it has been used with anything like uniform success. It has been shown by experiments on animals that the xed corpuscles of the transfused blood may rapidly disintegrate, and that the hsemogiobin thus set free may bring about a rapid destruction of the white corpuscles and so cause a marked accumu- lation of fibrin ferment in the blood, which may lead to exten- sive intravascular clotting. Defibrinated blood has also been used, but its injection has often been followed by dyspncea, diarrhcea, and blood-stained effusions into the serous cavities. These results are believed to be due to poisoning by the fibrin ferment in the blood, and this method has been entirely abandoned. Transfusion of blood from another species of animal—in the case of liuilian beings sheejj's blood lias been most extensively tried— is more dangerous than transfusion of blood of the same species. Rigors, pyrexia, hfemoglobinuria, and death have followed this method of treatment. Of late years direct transfusion of blood, which had been almost entirely given up, has been advocated if given under a proper tech- nique. The radial artery of the donor is anastomosed with the median basilic vein of the recijjient, either by direct suture or by means of a cannula, and the blood allowed to flow for abou twenty minutes. Crile, the chief of those who have advocated this method, claims good results, and states that there is usually no difficulty in getting a donor. Direct transfusion will be considered again under Shock (p. 337).