TETANUS 884 In the rabbit, toxin injected subcutaneously or intravenously has been shown to be absorbed by the motor end-plates, to travel in the axis cylinders of the motor nerves to the spinal cord, and there to form stable compounds with the ganglionic cells of the cord and medulla. Here it excites the intense nervous discharges which produce the characteristic contractions. The lymphatics and blood- vessels do not carry the toxins directly to the motor centres. It has also been stated that it is the motor end-plates and not the lateral aspects of the nerves which absorb the toxin, that its flow along the nerves is centripetal and not centrifugal, and that purely sensory nerves do not absorb it (Marie and Morex). On reaching the spinal cord, the toxin passes upwards until it has infected the higher centres of the medulla and cerebrum. Meyer and Ransom were able to neutralize toxin in the nerves by injecting antitoxin into them, but not by injecting it intravenously. They also injected toxin into the sciatic nerve of an animal previously immunized, and caused tetanus. Local treatment of the wound in an established case is of no great value ; still, careful cleansing with hydrogen peroxide, etc., imder anaesthesia, should be undertaken in the hope of preventing a further supply of the poison to the nerve centres. If small, the wound must be cauterized or excised. Although it is justifiable to amputate a digit, it is worse than useless to treat large wounds on these lines or to amputate a limb. Owing to the number of nerve endings prob- ably afiected, theii' removal or the division of the main trunks has not proved of practical value. Antitoxin treatment.—The use of antitoxin in human tetanus has not met with great success. The toxins reach the spinal cord and brain by nerve paths not easily followed by the serum, and in the ganglionic cells form poisonous and stable compomids against which the remedy is ineffectual. Lastly, the toxin gains a start of from two to twenty days, by which time the higher nervous centres have become deeply implicated, as manifested by the initial symptoms. Standardization of the antitoxin is important, and Behring recom mends that if in man the disease has already appeared, a serum from an immunized horse be used, of which 1 gr. shall be capable of protecting 100,000,000 grm. weight of mice against a minimum lethal dose of toxin or bacillus. It is recommended to inject, altogether, 100 c.c. of such a serum into five places in the body. It may be given subcutaneously or intravenously, and the simultaneous applica- tion of both methods is advised. Intracerebral, subarachnoid, and intravenous injections have not yielded the hoped-for results. Injec- tions of 10 to 20 c.c. and even more, three times daily, may be continued for several days until symptoms begin to abate. They should then