DELIRIUM TREMENS 341 thirsty and drinks large quantities. These symiDtoms are indicative of the onset of an attack of delirium tremens, and if the patient can be induced to sleejj and take food the condition may pass off. The next stage of the disease is one of extreme restlessness, incoher- ency, and hallucinations. These hallucinations are usually of sight, the patient seeing animals of any description and making attempts to brush them away or to escape from them. Hallucinations of hear- ing are also common, the patient complaining of voices which threaten him, and often holding long, incoherent conversations with imaginary persons. He may also complain of attempts to injure him, and may do himself serious damage in his attempts to escape from his per- secutors. Insensibility to pain is a marked feature of these cases, so that the patient will remove his splints and attempt to walk on a fractured lunb without showing any signs of pain. The physical changes are no less marked than the mental : the pulse is rapid and feeble ; there is complete loss of apj)etite and diges- tive power, and a rapid loss of flesh and strength. Constipation is the rule, but there may be diarrhofa, and the urme and ffeces are usually passed into the bed. The patient insensibly passes into the third stage—that of exhaus- tion, with a sleepless, low, muttering delirium, rapid feeble pulse, dry furred tongue, sordes on the lips, and a falling temperature ; and, if the condition be not relieved, death from exhaustion follows. The prognosis of delirium tremens is good in a first attack occur- ring in a fairly healthy young subject ; but ui elderly peo23le, after one or more attacks, the prognosis is grave, and death may suddenly take place from heart failure. Complete mental recovery, so far as the condition of chronic alcoholism will allow, is the rule after a first attack ; but the hallu- cinations or delusions may persist and the condition pass into one of delusional insanity or dementia. Treatment.—The great indications for treatment during the prodromal stage of the disease are to get the patient to sleep natur- ally and to take food. Plenty of fresh air in the room, easily digested fluid food in small and repeated quantities day and night, tepid spong ing, absolute quietude, and, if the physical condition allow it, exercise in the open air till tired, will all increase the chance of a natural sleep and may avert the attack. The bowels should be opened with a brisk purge and the patient not allowed to get constipated again. Alcohol, especially malt liquors (stout), is often prescribed as a sedative on the assumjjtion that sudden cessation of all alcohol is a cause of the condition, but its value is doubtful ; and if it be abso- lutely necessary to give h}^notics, paraldehyde, morphia, bromide, or chloral is preferable on account of the more certain action of these