CHRONIC INFLAMMATION 145 stream, and these opsonins act on the invading organisms in such a way as to render them more vulnerable to the attacks of and ingestion by the leucocytes of the patient. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION Symptoms.—There is a swelling of the intlamed area, due in part to hyperaemia and exudation, in part to the vascularization of the cells of the exudate, and in part to fibrous tissue into which the latter is converted by processes- described under Repair (p. 147). When the fluid exudate is a marked feature there may be oedema, recognized by " pitting" of the inflamed part on pressure. Pain is very variable, and is dependent upon the extent to which the tissue changes involve pressure upon sensory nerves. The pain in chronic inflammation of bone is often very great, although of a dull acliing nature, whereas chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane of a joint may exist as a painless aiiection. Tenderness may, as a rule, be elicited by pressure, and there is more or less evidence of hyperemia given by the increased temperature of the inflamed area. There is usually no redness, unless the skin itself be involved in the process, although a dusky tinge or the presence of enlarged superficial veins is not uncommon. Local treatment. Removal of the cause is, as in acute inflammation, the flrst aim of the surgeon. Foreign bodies, necrotic fragments of bone, and carious teeth are examples of removable causes of chronic inflammation. Certain constitutional causes such as gout and rheumatism are alluded to under General Treatment. There still remain, however, the great majority of cases, in whicli chronic inflammation is the result of a bacterial invasion, and in these cases complete removal of the cause is seldom practicable. Rest, both mechanical and physiological, is as essential as in acute cases, and the elevated position is of equal importance. Counter-irritation is widely employed and is of proved service. The method of action is not clear. The benefits derived have been attributed to a reflex nervous influence, and more recently to the increased hypera;'mia induced by its use.^ The chief methods of applying coimter-irritation are painting with iodine, blisters, the cautery, and the seton. Pressure is useful in that it limits the exudate which is often a prominent feature, and perhaps also mechanically assists in its removal. Pressure is applied by means of elastic bandages and of strapping. 1 The oft-repeated theory that counter-irritation of a siirface diminishes the congestion of the outlying parts has been shown experimentally to be erroneous. It has precisely the opposite effect. K