338 CONSTITUTIONAL' DISTURBANCES remove it, but no attempt should be made to clean the part or fashion a stump whilst the patient is still in the condition of shock. The patient must be most carefully watched, especially as ; egards the fullness, regularity, and tension of the pulse, and no further operation should be performed until the blood pressure is well maintained. In the case of a severe accident it will usually be from six to twelve hours before it will be safe to amputate, and no attempt should be made to hurry the time of operating, in spite of the frequent urgent appeals of the patient's friends. If possible, the amputation should be done under spinal or local anaesthesia, as further shock is prevented by these methods of amputating ; if a general anaesthetic is necessary, ether in an open inhaler rather than chloroform should be used. Exceptions to the rule of not operating during the condition of shock are numerous, as in many accidents and diseases delay is most dangerous. For example, if an accident causes severe internal haemor- rhage, such as follows a ruptured spleen, immediate operation is indicated to stop the haemoirhage, which otherwise may prove fatal; and the same rule holds good for such conditions as ruptured ectopic gestation, haemorrhage from a duodenal ulcer, or those cases in which a hollow viscus such as the stomach is ruptured by an accident, or when a gastric or other intestinal ulcer ruptures. Delay in these cases means the onset of general peritonitis, and the sooner the rent in the viscus is closed and the peritoneum cleaned and drained, the greater will be the patient's chance of recovery. During the period that must elapse between diagnosis and operation the treatment for shock should be carried out. ■ Delay is also dangerous in depressed fracture of the skull with symptoms, or in intracranial or intraspinal hiemorrhage, so that tre- phining or laminectomy should be done at once and the compression relieved. The treatment of shock is carried out during and after the operation. DELIRIUM Delirium occurring after accidents and operations may be divided into four varieties, according to the cause :— 1. Delirium nervosum, or traumatic delirium. 2. Toxic delirium. 3. Delirimn tremens. 4. Delirium after head injuries. Not infrequently two or more of these causes are present in the same case with a corresponding increase in the severity and duration of the delirium. 1. Traumatic delirium, or delirium nervosum.—This is a rather uncommon condition after operation or accident which