900 DISEASES DUE TO ANIMAL PARASITES on bilharzial ulcerations, especially of the glans penis and the anus, and a form of scirrhus cancer, with groups of ova between the epithe- lial masses, is only too common in the bladder. Secondary deposits are sometimes found in the heart muscle. On microscopic examination the mucous membrane is soft, swollen, and densely packed with round cells and ova ; the latter are especially tlaick just under the covering epithelium, and, constantly escaping, are readily recognized in the excretions. The coupled worms lie in the vessels of the submucous tissue and deeper tissues, which also show fibro-cellular infiltration in varying degrees of hardness and develop- ment. Sometimes, scirrhus masses appear in the walls of the viscus and may extend widely beyond it. BILHARZIOSIS OF THE URINARY SYSTEM Bladder and kidney.—The earliest urinary symptoms are generally referred to the bladder, and consist in a slight hsematuria, first appearing with the last few drops of urine, and accompanied, sooner or later, by irritation at the neck of the bladder and along the urethra. " Irritability of the bladder " gradually becomes more marked till it merges with the other symptoms of chronic cystitis. There is, however, now an almost constant hsematuria. Ova may be found in the urine for some time before symptoms appear, and their presence remains the one confirmative diagnostic feature throughout. Many of the ova are calcified, but others are clearer and show miracidia under the higher powers of the microscope. As the disease progresses, the symptoms increase in severity, and when once sepsis is added the destructive changes throughout the whole urinary system advance apace. The urine becomes alkaline, phosphates form on abraded surfaces and become nuclei for phosphatic stones, and obstruction or even retention of urine from bilharzial masses, stones, or blood clot may occur. Blocking of the ureteric orifices or actual disease in the ureters themselves may lead to dilated septic ureters and hydronephrosis, soon going on to pyonephrosis ; or pyelitis, septic nephritis, perinephritis, septic retroperitoneal cel- lulitis, and general septic infection may usher in the end. In some cases the cavity of the bladder may be almost entirely filled with a soft cheesy bilharzial tissue ; in others it may be very much diminished in size, by contraction of the fibrous infiltration of the walls or by encroachment of fibrous or scirrhus masses (Fig. 242). This new tissue extends well beyond the limits of the bladder into the cormective tissue and muscles in all directions, and is of stony hardness. The prostate and vesiculfe seminales do not escape even in the earliest cases, and thickening of the bladder walls is a feature from the very beginning of the disease.