3 MORPHOLOGY perimental observations clearly proved the specificity of the bacterium in question. In 1881, Koch made his first great contribution to bacteriological technique by the introduction of the use of gelatin as a culture medium. This discovery inaugurated a new era in the investigation of bacterial infections, by enabling pure cultures of bacteria to be prepared witli ease and certainty. In the same year Koch was led in the course of his exact investigations to advance those postulates for bacterial specificity in disease which are still accepted as fundamental principles. His observations soon attracted universal attention, and from this period dates the rapid development of modern bacteriological research. The simplification of the culture methods, and the introduction about the same time, by Ehrlich, Weigert, and Koch, of aniline dyes as stains for micro-organisms, smoothed the path for the army of patient and acute investigators who now began to worlc upon the problems of infection. The extraordinary activity of the last thirty years in this most fertile field of scientific study has resulted in an advance unequalled in rapidity and in importance in the whole history of pathological investigation, and has led to those discoveries regarding the etiology, the progress, prophylaxis, and specific treatment of a large number of infections which have entirely revolutionized the aspect of modern medicine, U. GENERAL BACTERIOLOGY A. GENERAL MORPHOLOGY AND DEVELOPMENT 1. FORM AND SIZE Bacteria are minute vegetable organisms which possess a uniform and usually well-marked outline, and, though varying considerably in shape, may be broadly classed under the headings spherical or rounded (cocci), rod-shaped (bacilli), curved rods (vibriones), screw-shaped oi wavy elements (spirilla), and filamentous forms (streptothrix, etc.). On the average, the diameter of a coccus varies between 0 5-1 fx (iu, = jo5(7 mm.), while the rods, whether straight or curved, may possess a length of from 1-6 jJ-, or even 8 ft or more, with a diameter of from ()"2-0 6 jjb in different cases. Thus, Bacillus anthracis has a length of 3-10 /x, with a breadth of 1-15 ix, while B. coli only measures 2-4 /x by about 0'5 fx wide, and B. inflvenzce. is still smaller, being less in length than the width of B. anthracis and measuring about O'5-l fx long, by 0'2-0"3 wide. Between the groups already mentioned occur intermediate forms,