SECONDARY SYPHILIDES 731 benefited by antisyphilitic treatment combined with strict attention to diet. Angina pectoris, with all its classical symptoms, is sometimes, though rarely, seen in both secondary and tertiary syphilis. Secondary skin eruptions.—The syphilitic virus is distin- guished from other specific poisons by the fact that its skin eruptions (" syphilides " or " syphiloderms ") are essentially polymorphic in type. The early eruditions of secondary syphilis are distributed symmetrically and generally over the body, involving the superficial layers of the skin ; the later ones, although symmetrical, are less copious and tend to invade the deeper layers. We are ignorant of the causes that determine the production of the different forms of syphilide. Phageda^nic chancre is more prone to be followed l)y pustular eruption than is the ordinary indurated sore. Pustular, rupial, and serpiginous syphilides are really the results of mixed infections. General features of syphilides.—To almost all syphilides certain features belong :— 1. Pohjmorpliisiii.—Several varieties of lesion are frequently seen in the same eruption. Macules, papules, pustules, and scaly patches may be present together. 2. Tendeyicij to assume a circular form, more noticeable in the case of small papular rashes. 3. Colour and pigmentation.—The colour, at first pinkish-red, soon fades to a brownish (" coppery " or " raw ham ") hue, probable- owing to chemical change in the extravasated and disintegrating blood. At first the coloration may be dissipated by j^ressure, but not so later on. 4. Absence of pain and itching. Diagnosis of syphilides must generally be based, not so much on the recognition of characters common to all syphilides, as upon an accurate acquaintance with each individual te^pe. 1. The erythematous or roseolar syphilide is the earliest and most common of all syphilitic eruptions, its appearance usually being coin- cident with the development of general lymphatic enlargements. It consists of oval or round spots of colour varying between a delicate rosy pink and a deep red. It is probably present in all cases, but may escape notice on account of extreme faintness. It is usually seen on the front, sides, and back of the trunk ; sometimes, though rarely, it invades the face and neck. It is also foimd on the flexor aspects of the limbs, but avoids the hands and feet. Its develop- ment occupies about a week, but may be so rapid as to simulate measles ; its disappearance may occur in a week or fortnight, if the rash is pale and scanty, but may require many weeks if the roseoho