PATHOLOGY OF SYPHILIS 717 is generally found on the surface. S. pallida, besides being smaller, less refractive, and harder to stain, has more numerous spiral turns, which it retains both in motion and at rest. It stams pink with Giemsa's stain, whilst the other spirochsete takes a blue colour. Pathology. — All syphilitic lesions are primarily masses of granulation tissue or inflammatory neoplasms. In the primary and ■secondary lesions the new tissue is extremely cellular, and is made up of masses of embryonic cells, which have the capacity of being trans- formed into fibrous tissue ; and in the tertiary lesions this transforma- tion actually takes place. In the primary chancre and in most of the secondary affections the cells undergo absorption, and there may remain practically no trace of the original focal lesion. In tlie tertiary stage of the disease definite nodules or gummata are formed. These are usually yellowish, homogeneous masses which are surrounded by more or less fibrous tissue. On microscopical examination these gummata are seen to be caseous and structureless, except at the periphery, where the cellular character is usually still present, though many of the cells have been transformed to fibroblasts and to definite fibrous tissue. Oiant cells resembling those seen in tuberculous lesions are frequently present at the periphery of the caseous area. The caseation is due partly to the obliteration of the vessels, which is brought about by a definite endarteritis, and partly to the action of the syphilitic poison on the cells. The nature of this poison is unknown, but since it has been definitely established that the Spirochcete pallida is present in all the lesions, there seems no ground for doubting that it is produced b}' this organism, and is probably allied to that produced by the Bacillus tuberculosis and other bacteria. From what has been said, it will be seen that the chief changes caused by syphilis are endarteritis, witli, usually, an associated peri- arteritis, leading to obliteration of the vessels; infiltration of the tissues with inflammatory cells, caseation of the parenchymatous cells due to the direct action of the toxin, and transformation of the inflammatory cells to new fibrous tissue. This new fibrous forma- tion may be localized to the periphery of gummata, but it is com- monly very widely distributed, as for example in congenital s}']^)hilitic cirrhosis or in s}'philitic interstitial pulmonary fibrosis. In its early stage the primary sore appears as a small superficial erosion, circular in form, and dark-red or sometimes greyish in colour. The edges may feel slightly indurated, but not uncommonly this induration is very indefinite, and the borders of the erosion cannot be clearly defined. There is usually a thin, sanious discharge from the eroded surface. Between the fifth and the tenth day the edges become more definite and the induration very marked. On microscopical examination, this