VARIETIES OF CHANCRE 719 the surface of which is on a level with the surrounding parts and the colour a dull red, later often assuming a coppery hue. At first there may be little or no disturbance, the j^atient's attention being attracted merely by some itching. After five or six days, during which the ulcer shows no special characteristics, the typical indura- tion becomes perceptible round the edges and increases in degree for two or three weeks. Stress must be laid on the absence of marked induration during the first ten days or so, for failure to recognize this fact has led to innumerable mistakes in diagnosis. This pecu- liarly circumscribed hardening of the tissues around and beneath the sore occurs without inflammatory signs, and remains some- times for weeks or months after the chancre has healed. In the immediate neighbourhood of the chancre there is formed a small- celled infiltration and hyperplasia of the connective-tissue cells,, supported by thickened blood-vessels, some of which are entirely obliterated. Varieties of chancre.—1. The chancrous erosion is by far the most common form, especially when the primary lesion is on the inner side of the prepuce. Its shape is generally circular or ovoid, but may be irregular ; its floor is but slightly, if at all, excavated ; and its surface is smooth and polished, and exudes a serous secretion. Usually single, on occasion several such lesions may be present. Owing to the absence of induration in the first stage of this variety of chancre, early diagnosis from herpes may be difficult, but may be facilitated by the absence of marked itching and burning, by the dark-red colour and the chronicity, and by the late appearance after exposure to infection. This form of chancre may develop into some of the other varieties. 2. " Parchment-like " chancre is formed when the sore remains superficial and the induration is spread out in a disc-like manner. It is mostly found on the integument of the penis and in the vulva. 3. Specially indurated chancres are generally found in the sulcus coronarius, near the fra^num. 4. The dry papule is found mostly on the integument of the penis at the base or pubic part. As a rule, it is a solitary, hard, dry papule, and is very characteristic of the true chancre. 5. The ecythmatous chancre may be developed from either a dry papiile or a chancrous erosion, and is simply an irritated, ulcerated chancre covered with pus crusts. 6. An annular chancre is a sore in which the induration assumes a,n annular shape, and in which the centre is less thickened and infiltrated. This form is found generally on the internal surface of the prepuce, sometimes on the glans, and very often on the cuta- neous surface of the penis.