85 THE RAY FUNGUS for example) the bacillus will, like the tubercle bacillus, not take up the stain so readily, and may lose it again in the process of decoloriza- tion. This fact probably accounts for the statement sometimes made that the Bacillus leprce is less acid-fast than some of the other members of the group. The bacillus is present in considerable numbers in the cells of leprous lesions, and is also found in the lymphatic spaces of the tissue. In the cells the bacilli are arranged in little groups of individuals lying parallel to each other, and these groups cross one another in various directions, producing an appearance which is somewhat characteristic. Actinomyces (ray fungus)—This micro-organism (Plate 9, Figs. 2 and 3) was discovered in the ox by Bollinger in 1877, and in the following year Israel described it in the human subject, the identity of the two being established by the observations of Ponfick. It appears in the form of a mycelium composed of interlacing threads of leptothrix-like growth which exhibit true branching. In pure culture the organism presents a mycelium of this character whose branches are given off at various angles, and jaroduce a felted network of threads, which may or may not exhibit definite segmentation. As the age of the growth increases, segmentation becomes definite and marked, and the threads may even assume the appearance of a row of cocci. The threads are usually about 0-4-0-6 fi wide. Under moderately anaerobic conditions clubs " may ajjpear upon the ends of the terminal branches, but only in 2)articular varieties of the fungus. In the living body the ajJi^earances are somewhat different from those seen in cultures, and in the human subject they differ from those observed in animals. In man the organism is usually found in the pus obtained from abscesses in various organs and bone-lesions, while in cattle it is more commonly contained in fibrous nodules of a chronic inflammatory character, though abscesses may also occur in these animals. In the pus are seen a number of tiny sulphur-yellow or greyish granules, 0"2 mm. to 1 mm. or more in diameter, whicli on examination are found to consist of a closely interwoven mycelium presenting characteristic club-shaped swellings of the extremities of the threads around the periphery of the colony. The clubs stain dif- ferently from the rest of the colony, and the mycelial threads can then be seen to pass right up the axis of the clubs, which surrounds them in the manner of a swollen terminal sheath. Sometimes the extremity of the thread witliin the club is pointed, but in other cases it may be distinctly bulbous. Somewhat similar appearances are seen in the fibrous nodules found in cattle, the colony exhibiting a more or less mulberry-like and granu- lated aspect in the mass, and on section a radiating series of blunt