594 TUMOURS tumour, and in some instances have occasioned intestinal obstruction. Some cysts of the jaws (usually tlie maxilla), known as dental cysts, must be included in this class. They differ from dentigerous cysts in the absence of an unerupted tooth, and are supposed to arise in a small abscess sac connected \vith the periodontal membrane. Serous cysts are often described as one variety of cyst of the breast. Undoubtedly a single thin-walled cyst containing clear fluid sometimes occurs in this situation, but the evidence that it arises independently of the gland tissue does not appear conclusive. Chylous cysts, necessarily of lymphatic origin, are occasionally found in the abdominal cavity, and constitute a rare form of mesen- teric cyst. Blood cysts.—These, although rare, deserve brief notice. It occasionally happens that a hsematoma of the subcutaneous tissues, or in other situations, instead of being gradually absorbed, undergoes changes which result in the formation of a true blood cyst. This consists of a fibrous wall, the inner surface of which is covered with a thin layer of rusty-coloured material (hfematoidin), the contents being a clear yellow fluid. Cysts of this nature (apoplectic cysts) are occasionally found in the cerebral membranes or in the substance of the brain. The reader may be reminded that many so-called " blood cysts," met with in connexion with the bones and in other situations, prove to be tumours, usually myeloma or sarcoma, in which the tumour substance has been broken down by heemorrhagic extravasation. 3. Cysts arising in tissue inclusions or vestigial structures.—Dermoid cysts are the most important examples of this class. They may be defined as cysts of congenital origin lined Avith skin or mucous membrane, and they may arise either in a rudiment of the surface which has remained included in the deeper tissues or in a vestigial epithehum-lined structure. The most simple dermoids are those which occur in the situation of various embryonic fissures, the edges of which come into contact and eventually unite. During this process it is easy to imderstand how a rudiment of the surface epi- thelium may remain embedded in the deeper tissues and become the origin of a dermoid cyst. Bland-Sutton, to whom we owe much of our loiowledge of these tumours, distinguishes by the names sequestration dermoids and tubulo- dermoids those arising in smface inclusions and in epithelium-lined vestigial structures respectively. A simple dermoid cyst consists of a fibrous wall lined with stratified squamous epithelium in which the papillary arrangement normal to the skin is often well marked, and in addition various cutaneous appen- dages, such as sebaceous glands, hair-foUicles, and less frequently