920 INSECT BITES AND STINGS The treatment of all tliese plagues is unsatisfactory ; but, in general, alkaline or liazeline lotions are the best, while, later, eau de Cologne and other spirituous applications may be tried. The intense irritation and the urticarial condition sometimes found may be relieved by calcium lactate internally, and general furunculosis yields best to an appropriate vaccine. Bot-flies, gad-flies, and others of their nature, may lay their eggs under the skin and give rise to a boil-like swelling, which may ultimately form an abscess or end in ulceration. The ver du cayor, the larval form of the Ocliryomyia anthropojjJiaga (E. Blanchard) of Senegambia, and the ver macaque, the larva of a gad-fly, Dermatobia cyaniventris (Macquart), of Central America, Mexico, and Brazil, are two well-known examples of such larval infections ; but much more serious effects are produced by the wanderings of the screw-worm, the larval form of a blue-bottle fly known as Chrysomyia macellaria (Fabricius), which is found in South and North America; similar flies in parts of China and India also attack the same places. The eggs may be deposited in the skin or in the mucous membrane of the nose or skin of the auditory canal. The larvse, on being hatched, may set up some local furunculosis in the skin, or may bore from the nose or ear deeply into surrounding tissues, even through muscles and cartilage, to the bones. In their course they may set up septicaemia, or even penetrate to the meninges and brain, with fatal consequences. More often the frontal and other sinuses in connexion Avith the nasal passages may be involved. Treatment.—Extensive operations for the evacuation of the larvae and pus may be required, with the subsequent application of strong antiseptics, such as pure carbolic or benzine. The inhalation of chloroform may be employed also to kill the larvae (MacLeod). Wounds may at any time become infected with maggots, the larvae of variou.s flies, particularly in tropical countries among native patients. Radical measures must be taken to remove such foreign bodies and prevent their reappearance. The impregnated female chigger or sand-flea {Dermatofhilus pene- trans), which inhabits warm, dry, sandy soil in many tropical and sub- tropical climates, produces local irritation by entering through the soft skin, especially in the sole between the toes, around the nails, or through any small abrasion. There may be no symptom of penetration, but usually an acute irritation with intense itching is present. At first only a tiny black spot, the posterior end of the flea, can be seen, but this soon increases in size, as the body becomes swollen with ova, until it may be as large as a pea. Inflammation and secondary sup- puration occur in the surrounding tissues and may expel the flea. Dirty discharging sinuses or deep ulcerated wounds may be produced,