TUMOURS 570 and serve to explain, for example, cases in which the disease involves the glands in the posterior triangle independently of the axillary glands, and also those very rare instances in which a carcinoma of one breast causes secondary deposits in the glands of the opposite axilla. In 1889, Heidenhain published some very important observations on the mode of spread of carcinoma of the breast in relation to local recurrence of the disease after operation. He showed that in cases of nodular carcinoma, even in the early stages, it was often possible to demonstrate small deposits of growth in the lymphatics of the fascia over the pectoralis major, and further proved that this fascia could only be completely removed by taking away the superficial layer at least of the muscle itself. The complete removal of the gland in all cases is now universally considered to be essential, on the gromid that unless this is done deposits of the growth may be left in the lymphatics of the remaining portion. The importance of this was emphasized, especially by Stiles of Edin- burgh, in his important work on the subject. Again, the complete removal of the breast involves the removal also of the sldn covering the gland, for, especially where the suspensory ligaments pass from the surface of the breast to the skin, the breast tissue runs up so close to the latter, that if flaps are turned from the breast small portions of the superficial part of the gland are certain to escape removal. Lastly, it will be recalled that Sampson Handley's observations suggest that the disease is especially liable to spread to the abdominal cavity by way of the fascial structures of the epigastrium. These various considerations serve to indicate the extensive nature of the operation which should be performed for even an early localized carcinomatous tumour of the breast. The parts removed should include the whole breast, with the sldn covering it, the sternal and costal portions of the pectoralis major, the pectoralis minor, the fascial structures as low as the epigastrium, and the fat, cellular tissue and lymphatic glands of the axilla. The removal of the pectoral muscles not only ensures the complete excision of the pectoral fascia, but also, by giving free access to the highest part of the axilla, enables the operator to deal freely with the subclavicular glands which lie on the first part of the axillary vein. The removal of both muscles also ensures the removal of infected glands which sometimes lie between the muscles. These glands lie in the position of the superior thoracic artery, and have been shown by Rotter to be very liable to invasion by way of lymphatic vessels which pass from the breast through the large pectoral muscle. The most important variations in the hard form of carcinoma of the breast are dependent chiefly upon variations in the nature and extent of the invasion of the surrounding lymphatics by the growth. Diffuse hard carcinoma differs from the more common nodular