,867 GLANDERS By E. rock G4RLING, B.S., F.R.C.S. Glanders, the most dangerous of equine disease-;, is a specific infection communicable to man and to some other animals. Eitiology.—Amongst human beings the disease is almost entirely confined to men. Not more than 3 per cent, of the recorded cases are in females; the infection of children is a rare accident. The most important etiological factor is an occupation involving contact with diseased animals, their carcases, or their immediate surroundings. Thus, grooms and coachmen, cavalrymen, veterinary surgeons, black- smiths, and stablemen make up the bulk of the affected. Knack- ers, who are relatively exempt, sometimes exhibit, post-mortem, signs which have been interpreted as indicating a latent form of tlie disorder. Infection occurs through the abraded skin, and possibly by tlie hair-follicles ; through the nasal and buccal mucosa, by inhalation or by ingestion. Blood-sucking flies may possibly be a medium of transmission. The period of incubation varies widely ; the usual time is froui two to eight days, but it msbj extend to three weeks or even longer. The characters of the specific micro-organism, the Bacillus iiudlci, are described on p. 70. The bacilli are generally scanty in the affected tissues, and even in the pus from acute abscesses may be very difficult to find. The initial lesion is frequently overlooked, and there may be no recognizable signs for a considerable time, even months, after the actual infection. Invasion by the skin usually occurs upon an exposed part througli some breach of surface : inoculation by scratching is occasionally observed. There is no typical chancre, but a papule may appear and quickly ulcerate, or the wound may develop erysipelatoid swelling with lymphangitis and adenitis. In some instances vesicles are noted round the point of entrance. In the case of the mucosae of the mouth and nose the onset is usually with catarrh ; a copious, thin, sero-purulent, and later sanious, acrid fluid Hows from the nostrils, or is expectorated. Ulceration is the