309 HEMORRHAGE Intermediary haemorrhage.—This has ah-eady been defined as a recurrence of primary hemorrhage after it has once ceased, with the excejDtion of recurrence due to sepsis. It was formerly defiiied as haemorrhage recurring within twenty-four hours of the original wound, but this definition is altogether artificial. The most common cause is the increase of blood pressure following recovery from the shock of an operation. As shock passes off, the heart beats more forcibly, the blood pressure rises, and the temporary clot may be displaced from the blood-vessel and the h?emorrhage restarted. Other causes are the slipping of a ligature due to incautious movements on the part of the patient, the increase of blood pressure due to the giving of stimu- lants forcing clots out of imtied vessels, and bleeding occurring from the distal end of arteries after the establishment of the anastomotic circulation. The symptoms are the same as those of primary hsemor- rhage, and the treatment follows along the same lines. Concealed or internal haemorrhage.—This form of h;emor- rhage is frequently intermediary, occurring after operations on the abdomen or thorax. It also occurs after injury to the various viscera in the abdomen and thorax, and after operations on the rectum or bladder. The diagnosis mainly rests on the general symptoms and physical signs of haemorrhage ; but the history and local physical signs are often of importance. Thus in the abdomen there may be signs of free fluid in the peritoneal cavity, or dullness on one or the other side; in the thorax there may be signs of fluid in one pleural cavity and compression of the corresponding lung, whilst in the rectum and bladder examination may show these cavities to be filled with blood- clot. This variety of h;emorrhage is usually extremely dangerous, and after operation or injury the diagnosis from shock may be very difficult. The treatment is governed by the same principles as apply in the case of external haemorrhage. Secondary haemorrhage.—This form of haemorrhage has been defined as haemorrhage due to ulceration that opens a blood-vessel before thrombosis has occurred in it. Primary ha?morrliage may or may not be an antecedent. The condition is perhaps best exemplified by secondary haemorrhage occurrmg from the vessels of Ihe stump of an amputation woiuid which has become septic. At the time of the operation primary haemorrhage was securely arrested by ligature. In septic conditions there is a liquefaction of the tissues by the peptonizing action of bacterial pro- ducts, causing the formation of pus, and this process afi'ects the arteries and veins as well as the other tissues. When a blood-vessel becomes inflamed, the blood in it coagulates, and, as a rule, when the wall of the vessel breaks down under the septic process, haemorrhage does not