113 PHENOMENA OF INFLAMMATION 2. Transudation of lymph.—The outllow of lyinph from tlie vessels bei.-oiiu's ww nuicli increased duriuu the iutiaiuiuatory process, and is one of the main causes of the swellinif of tlie parts. This increased transudation is one of the earliest observed phenomena, and within two hours it liecomes marked. The amount vai'ies con- sideral)ly, and is dependent laruelv upon the situation in wliicli it occurs, tliouiih the nature and the intensity of the causal ii-ritant, as well as the oeiieral health of the patient, play an important part in the process. In situations where the tissues are la.x; (e.<i-. about the eyelids) or where the degree of external pressure is small (e.g. in the pleural cavities) the accumulations of fluid may be very large and the swell- ing considerable in amount; whereas in solid tissues (e.g. the kidneys) or in situations where there is considerable external resistance (e.g. under the periosteum) the e.vudation mav be comparatively scanty and the swelling an inconspicuous feature. From causes which are iioi fidly understood, certain bacterial irritants cause much greater transudation than others, and the same irritant may produce at one time considerable accunndations of fluid and at other times a very scant\' exudate. In a certain proportion of cases , these differences are to i)e exjihiined l)v ditferences in the ti.ssues acted upon. Thus, in (lel)ilitating diseases, where there is ])ronounced an;emia with grave alterations in the condition of the blood and changes in the walls of the vessels, transudation occurs with great readiness. The swelling of the endothelial lining cells, the loosening of the cement sulistance between them, and the other degenerative changes in the cells themselves which result from the inflammatory process, produce a condition of ureater porositv of the walls of the capillaries and venules. This, combined with the increased pressure in the dilated and engorged vessels, is the main cause of the increased transudation of lymph. If the view that the endothelial cells lining the blood-vessels have a selective capacity in lymph transudation is accepted, it must be admitted that an alteration in this, a very probable result of inflammatory or other destructive processes, mav be of considerable importance in increas- ing the output of l\"mph. Function of the exudates.—It may be stated generally lliat the exudates have a decidedly beneficial action, not merely locally, but even at some distance from the site at which the irritant is acting. At and around the site, in the case of bacterial irritants at any rate, toxins and metabolic poisons are being produced, and the transuded lymph must dilute these poisons, and thus render them less harmful to the surrounding tissues and to the organism as a wiiole. Further, the exudates will contain the various antitoxic, anti- liacterial. and other protective substances which are known to be 1