730 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS Anaemia.—Anaemia is generally a marked symptom. Even before the enlargement of tlie lymphatic glands the patient becomes pale and listless, and loses flesh. Examination of the blood reveals deficiency in haemoglobin and red cells with some increase of leucocytes. These changes become more marked as the case proceeds, and they vary in intensity with the- severity of the disease. Cachexia usually appears early in the secondary stage. The patient becomes emaciated, loses appetite and strength, and develops a pale, sallow complexion, a small, weak, rapid pulse and an elevated temperature, and becomes dejected, nervous, and apprehensive. Sometimes, especially in cases subjected to early mercurial treat- ment, cachexia may be postponed till late in the course of the disease. Bone pains of different kinds, mostly felt in the cranium, ribs, sternum, and clavicle, are a frequent accompaniment in the early period, and may be associated Avith local tenderness. Both tender- ness and pain are worse at night. Rheumatic pains in the muscles, fasciae, and joints of the extremities are constant symptoms of the early stages of constitu- tional syphilis. The joints affected are usually the larger ones— those of the hip, knee, and especially the elbow—but often the wrist and interphalangeal joints are attacked. Hyperaemia of pharynx and tonsils.—Syphilis resembles the acute exanthemata in its tendency to attack the fauces. As a rule, the throat manifestations follow the cutaneous lesions, but often the reverse occurs. Frequently the throat affection is unsusj^ected by the patient until it is revealed by inspection. In many cases there is nothing but a slight excoriation ; in others mucous patches may be present. There is often much tonsillar swelling ; the follicles become enlarged and prominent, or they may rupture and form ulcers. In the more chronic cases patches are present on the tonsils and palatine arch, or there may be sharply defined yellow ulcers. Constantly on the fauces, hard palate, inside of cheeks, and lips, there are seen scattered milk-white spots called "plaques" (Plate 73, Figs. 2 and 3), which may be of any size and shape and may coalesce to cover a large area. Parts of their surface may be reddened, showing only a little white opacity here and there. Albuminuria and nephritis.—At this time albuminuria may appear, and, without doubt, a definite nephritis, mild or severe, occurs during the secondary stage. I agree with the authors who believe that syphilis causes kidney changes comparable with those seen in other infectious diseases. The symptoms of this nephritis may be wanting, and the condition only discovered by examina- tion of the urine ; but it may give rise to lumbar pain, with oedema of the face and lower extremities. Most of these nephritic cases are