7i6 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS especially in the liver, and in certaia parts of the skeleton, i.e. the periosteum, bones, etc. The specific character of S. pallida has been established by the following facts :— 1. It has been found in the blood of syphilitics. 2. It has been found in the blood and viscera of syphilitic infants. 3. MetchnikofE and Roux found it in lesions in monkeys caused by inoculation from syphilitic men and monkeys. 4. It is found only in syphilitic lesions. The success of Metchnikoff and Roux in establishing, in 1903, the communicability of the disease from men to animals marks a step almost equal in importance to the discovery of the *S'. pallida. They succeeded by inoculation in producing in a chimpanzee a primary syphilitic chancre, followed by secondary symptoms. This experi- ment they frequently successfully repeated in the chimpanzee, but attempts to infect the lower monkeys showed that these animals, are more resistant to syphilis the farther they are removed from the anthropoids. In the macaque and papion monkeys, for instance, syphilis is limited to a modified chancre, represented by an cedemat- ous nodule, which is followed by desquamation. This is associated with slight induration and adenitis, but ulceration is absent. By inoculation from the macacus to the chimpanzee, Roux and Metchnikoff established the identity of the mitigated macacus lesion with syphilis. These researches led to various attempts to prepare an antisyphilitic serum, but up to date such attempts have failed. Examination for S. pallida.—In my experience, it is easier to demonstrate the organism in hereditary lesions than in those of acquired syphilis ; and in early secondary rashes and mucous lesions than in the chancre. The spirochfetes are more abundant in the deeper part than near the surface. Levaditi states that, although present in the blood-vessels, S. follida is rarely found in the blood itself. Hence it is believed that the blood simply acts as a conveying medium, not as a site for development and multiplication. Search for the 8. pallida has been greatly facilitated by the use of the dark background. The material should, when possible, be taken from the deeper parts of the lesion, spread on a cover-glass,, moistened with normal alkaline solution, and examined under xV-inch immersion lens on a dark background. In the absence of a dark- background apparatus, the spirocha5te may be well seen in a smear of Indian ink (Plate 71, Fig. 1). In Levaditi's method (Plate 71, Fig. 2) the spirochsete is stained black with silver nitrate reduced by pyrogallic acid. S. pallida is a very delicate, motile, spiral organism, varying in length from 4 to 15 fx,, and 01 to 0-2 fju in thickness. It especially inhabits the deeper parts of lesions, whereas 8. refringens