630 X-RAY EXAMINATION DISEASES OF THE FASCIA The attachments of fascia may become the seat of osteophytic deposits, which in certain situations, such as the attachments of the plantar fascia to the os calcis, may cause considerable pain and dis- comfort on walking. Plate 42, Fig. 4, is a radiogram illustrating this condition. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF JOINTS Sprains and strains.—In these injuries a radiogram will fre- quently enable the surgeon to recognize the presence of detached fragments of bone and fractures involving the joint, and, as a con- sequence, suitably to modify treatment. In sprains of the ankle-joint, for example, it is not unusual to find small fragments of bone detached from the tip of the fibula or the malleolus of the tibia. Bad sprains of an osteo-arthritic joint, with osteophytes springing from the articular margins, are commonly found to be associated with, fracture of these outgrowths, the symptoms being similar to those of fracture of the bone itself. Only by X-ray examination is it possible to recog- nize this condition with accuracy. Congenital dislocation of the hip-joint.—The facility with which this disease can be recognized is demonstrated in Plate 43, Fig. 1. Here is seen a distinct dislocation of the left joint. X-ray examination is an important adjunct to the successful treatment of this disease by Lorenz's method. Thus, information is derived as to the likelihood of a successful reduction by observing the degree of malformation of the acetabulum, the amount of distortion of the upper epiphysis of the femur, and the relative positions of the acetabulum and the head of the femur. After manipulation the position of the head of the femur and its relation to the acetabulum are easily ascertained while the limb is'still in plaster. Fig. 2 shows a case similar to that in Fig. 1, but with the limb in Lorenz's position in plaster. During the process of getting the limb down from the abducted position. X-ray examinations are of value in ascertaining the maintenance of the correct relation of the bones. Traumatic dislocations.—Not only does X-ray examination render easy the diagnosis of simple dislocations from fractures of the bones, but it also ai?ords a satisfactory means of differentiating fracture associated with dislocation from simple dislocation. Thus, Plate 43, Fig. 3, is an example of fracture of the neck of the humerus com- plicated with dislocation forwards of the detached head. Moreover, it supplies a method of ascertaining the success or failure of efforts to reduce the dislocation, and gives information of value towards the correct estimation of the prognosis. Plate 43, Fig. 4, illustrates a