465 MALIGNANT GROWTHS the cancerous tissue " gametoid tissue." Tlie fundamental fact of the exact halving of the chromosomes in cancerous growths remains, however, unconfirmed, and some subsequent observers have denied that it occurs. Closely related to the question of the nature and causation of malig- nant growths is the subject of their communicability from one individual to another. Evidence of the communicability of malignant growths may be sought for accidentally in the human subject and ex2>eri- mentally in the lower animals. In view of the great frequency of the disease, it is remarkable how very few cases are on record which appear to illustrate its transmission from one individual to another. Such an occurrence might naturally be expected to occur, if at all, in cases of superficial disease, and especially in ulcerated carcinomas of the skin and mucous membranes. Among the recorded cases are a few in which carcinoma appears to have been transmitted by coitus from the genitalia of one sex to those of the other, and among other examjDles may be mentioned a few instances in which a surgeon has been believed to become inoculated during an operation on a cancerous patient. The accidental communication of the disease from man to the lower animals, and vice versa, has also been reported. The experimental transmission of malignant growths in the lower animals lias been the subject of much investigation during recent years both in this country and abroad. Hanau, in 1889, and Moreau, in 1894, made successful transplantations of mahgnant growths. The former transplanted a carcinoma of the vulva from rat to rat, and the latter a mammary carcinoma from mouse to mouse. Jensen and Borel fol- lowed up these observations witli an exact investigation of the process of transplantation ; and subsequent workers, especially in connexion witli the Imperial Cancer Research Fund, have added to our knowledge of the cancerous process. Thus, among other important observations, it has been shown that of the two elements of a cancerous graft—the stroma and the epithelium—the former degenerates, the ej^ithelium alone constituting the essential part of the growth, whilst a new stroma is developed as the result of a reaction in the surrounding tissues. It has also been shown that the primary transplantation of a carci- noma is more difficult to effect than subsequent transplantations, and from this it has been concluded by Bashford, Murray, and Haaland that the epithelial cells of the growth become modified by a process of adaptation in successive transplantations. Of especial interest is an observation of Ehrlich and Apolant, that in a certain number of cases a transplanted mouse-carcinoma may give rise to sarcoma in conj unction with the epithelial growth—the first evidence of the experi- mental production of a malignant gro\\i;h de novo. It has been suggested that the sarcoma, in such cases, arises through some action on the part 2 E