656 GENERAL ANESTHESIA at a time. During the first two minutes the mixture is poured on in such small quantities that never more than one quarter of the surface of the mask is moist. Then it is added more freely until in the case of men the whole surface of the mask (in the case of women three-quarters, and in the case of children one-half of the surface) is kept moist with the liquid. At least four minutes should elapse between the beginning of the administration and the moment when the maximum quantity is first placed upon the mask. When anaesthetizing very robust or alcoholic subjects, it is advisable to have at hand an Ormsby's inhaler (Fig. 180) and an ounce of pure ether. If the stage of excitement becomes unduly marked, as may be the case with these difficult subjects, it is quickly quelled and anaesthesia established by pouring the ether on to the sponge of the inhaler and applying the face-piece closely to the patient's face. This procedure, however, should not be adopted till the mixture has been in use for at least four or five minutes. When stertor arises, as will quickly occur, the inhaler is removed, and ansesthesia continued by use of the open mask and C.B. mixture. The average induction period with this method is eight minutes. During operation the mixture is used at the rate of about one ounce in fourteen minutes. Some rigidity of the jaw muscles and of the limbs, with attempts to sit up, is not uncommon during the induction stage. This is met by continuing the administration smoothly, without any attempt to " rush" the patient by greatly increased dosage. Nor should strenuous efforts be made to keep the patient perfectly still ; it is better to allow him free movement within limits—care being taken, of course, that he does not hurt himself or those near him, and that he does not in his inco-ordinate and semi-conscious movements lurch himself off the operating table. The most powerful subjects can be kept in a state of perfect anaesthesia for long periods by this method. Fig. 180.—Ormsby's ether inhaler.