si.owiNc; OF Till'; iu.oodstri:am 111 (Plate 10, Fig. 1). The transudation ol' lyjn])li and tlie emiuration of ](nicoc3'tes become pronounced in a few liours and obscure the j)icture. For tlie later changes, portions of the membrane from one animal, or ])referably the membrane from different animals, should be icnioved, fixed, and stained at dilTerent periods of time, and iu this way the \vliole series of changes. fi-.)in 1 lie lime of a|)])li(a1 ion ol tlie irritant to the time when healing is coinj;lete, may be examined. [Many of the changes, as lias already been indicated, go on side b\' side, but for i MiuiMiience of study each may lie dealt with in turn. I. Slowing of the blood-stream.—This is an carlv lihenoiiienon wliicli gradually increases :ind may on to actual arrest (stasis) of the l)lood-.stream. It is dependent upon several factors, of which the dilatation of the vessi^ls is prol)ably one of the most important, this Vicing brought alioul by the irritant acting dii'cctly on the vascular wall, or through the intervention of the local vaso-motor apparatus. Tlie injurious agents which give rise to the inflammatory reactions act directly upon the endothelial cells lining the vessels. These, becoming swollen, project into the lumen of the vessels, and give rise to greater frictional resistance to the flow of the blood. Lister showed that during inffamraation the rod blood-corpuscles become more viscid ; and Colmlieim and others have clearly demonstrated that during the process of stasis the leucocytes accumulate in great numbers in the peripheral, plas- matic blood-stream, and attach themselves to the walls of the vessels. These two factors must aid in increasing the friction. In addition to this increase of resistance in the vessels, the loss of elasticity and contractile power, brought about Ijv the causal poisons and by the impairment of nutrition which act injuriously upon the various tissues in the walls of the vessels, must also aid in the production of stasis. The vessels, and especially the venules and capillaries, become unduly stretched, producing an increased intravascular pressure and a further dilatation. In conse(|uence of the nutritive alterations in llie walls ol the vessels a considerable increase talccs place in the transudation of lymph, the blood plasma becomes more ins])issated. and its rate of How niav tlius be decreased. Thrombosis of minute vessels is a familiar feature of early inllammatorv reactions, and is due partly to the .slowing of the blood- stream, partly to the irregular dilatation of the lumen—this irregularity producing etldies in \-arious sections of the vessels. An important factor in this process is the action of the poisons, which not only render the blood more coagulable, but produce destructive changes, whereby the normal smoothness of the internal lining of tlie vessel is lost. As the blood-stream becomes sluggish, there is, as has already been stated, a rearrangement of the relative positious of the fluid