GANGRENE DUE TO INFECTIVE PROCESSES 229 or toe. The death of the part is due to a direct chemical action on all the tissues, for the epidermis, by first becoming cedematous, loosened, and devitalized, allows the watery solution of tlie acid to soak into and destroy the deeper layers, its action in this respect being analo- gous to that of mineral acids. Different observers have proved that carbolic-acid gangrene may be produced in twenty-four hours by a 1 per cent, solution, in twelve liours by a 2 per cent, solution, and in three or four hours by stronger solutions. Symptoms.—Following the application of a carbolic-acid com- press, blanching and crenation of the skin are accompanied by itch- ing and paresthesia gradually merging into anaesthesia. The loss of sensation is comforting to the patient, particularly if the comjjress has been aj^jjlied to a painful finger, and induces him to leave the dressing undisturbed. When it is eventually removed, the digit is found to be stiff, cold, insensitive, and pale-yellow or brown, exhibit- ing a striking contrast to the adjacent living tissues rendered hyper- ajmic and swollen by inflammatory reaction. Treatment.—The choice lies between amputation and awaiting the formation of a line of demarcation with natural separation. Of these courses, tlie former is preferable, as soon as the inflammatory reaction has subsided. V. GANGRENE DUE TO INFECTI\^E PROCESSES There are four varieties of gangrene that fall vmder the above heading: (1) that due to acute inflamntation, (2) emphi/seinatous gangrene, (3) cancruiii oris, and (4) pJiagedcena. In these forms the death of the tissues is primarily due either (a) to the more or less mechanical effect of an acute inflammation excited by the presence of bacteria, or (b) to the direct devitalizing action of the toxins produced by bacteria. The distinction here indicated is a very important one, both from the pathological and from the clinical standpoint, inasmuch as the part that bacteria play has a very definite bearing on the symptoms and treatment. In that form of gangrene brought about by acute inflammation, the immediate constitutional symptoms are not always severe, and the process may often be limited by a timely incision which has for its object the restoration of the circulation by relieving the pressure exerted by an excessive exudate ; but in that variety in whicli necrosis is due to the direct action of bacterial toxins death of the tissues is so rapid that an inflammatory barrier has little or no time to form, consequently the gangrene spreads with alarming rapidity, is accom^ianied by the gravest constitutional symptoms, and nothing short of immediate and wide removal of the affected part will