593 CYSTS the shoulder, but may occur in cysts in the scalp or elsewhere. The supervention of malignant disease ni the form of squamous-celled carcinoma in a sebaceous cyst is very rare. In removing a selmceous cyst care must be taken that the cyst wall is completely taken away. In large sebaceous cysts of the scalp this can most easily be done by evacuating the contents through a hort incision, and then carefully dra\ving out the cyst wall. Mucous cysts arise as retention cysts of the mucous glands which are present in many mucous membranes. They rarely reach a large size, and appear usually as small, tense, semitranslucent bluish pro- minences, containing a clear viscid fluid. They are not imcommon on the mucous surface of the lips and cheeks, and are occasionally met with on the tongue. The name ranula is applied to certain cysts sometimes found in the floor of the mouth beneath the tongue. These cysts undoubtedly vary in their mode of origin, and sometimes arise in the salivary glands. In the most common form, however, the cyst is situated laterally, and the patent duct of the submaxillary gland can be demonstrated pass- ing over the surface of the cyst, clearly proving that the cyst has not arisen ui it. Occasionally a ranula extends from the floor of the mouth on to the under surface of the tongue. The cyst forms a bluish semitranslucent prominence, and usually contains a thick ropy mucus. It nuist undoubtedly be regarded in many cases as a simple mucous retention cyst, and among the glands in which such a ranula may arise may be mentioned the glands of Blandin, which lie on the under surface of the tongue, and the incisive glands, which lie close to the lower jaw ojjposite the central incisor teeth. Mucous cysts are sometimes met with in tlu labia minora. A specimen of this kind, removed by Liston, is as large as a Tangerine orange. A cyst sometimes of large size may develop from Bartholin's gland, forming a tumour in the posterior extremity of the labium majus. Occasionally a cyst of tliis kind suppurates. 2. Exudation cysts are cysts which arise from an exudation of fluid from the lymphatics or blood-vessels. When such an exudation of fluid, whether it be serous, chylous, or sanguineous in character, occurs into an already existing cavity, such as a joint, bursa, or other serous cavity, the resulting collection is not properly included among cysts ; whereas in a true exudation cyst the wall of the cyst, as well as the fluid it contains, is a distinct new formation. According to the character of the fluid, exudation cysts are divided into serous, chylous, and blood cysts. True serous cysts are rare, and must not be confused with cystic lymphangiomas (p. 413). As examples may be mentioned certain cysts of the mesentery, which may be large enough to produce an abdominal