TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS: MERCURY 763 but although active, it has only medium intensity, and in this respect compares unfavourably with either calomel or metallic mercury. The dose recommended (,V gi'-) is too small to produce therapeutic effects ; at least I gr. should be used. If injected in concentrated form the biniodide is liable to produce pain and nodosities. Sozoiodolate of mercury is generally prescribed for injection purposes thus :— Sod. iodi . . . . . . . . gr. X. Hydrarg. sozoiodol . . . . . . gr. v. Aquae . . . . . . . . . Tllcc. Dose: ri\x to Illxii as an injection four or five times a week. Although when introduced the sozoiodolate was praised very loudly, when using soluble injections I found it inferior in therapeutic intensity to almost any of the other salts. Succinimide of mercury has also been highly recommended, and is freely used at present:— Hydrarg. succinat. . . . . . . . gr. ii. Cocain. hydrochlor. ....... gr. iii. Aqua3 . . . . . . . . . :ii. Doso : \]]x as an injection daily. Comparative merits of the soluble and insoluble salts. At one time opinions were equally divided as to the merits of the soluble and the insoluble salts for injection, but the insoluble are now greatly favoured. Although the innnediate effects on early syphilitic lesions of injection of the soluble salts, esjjecially the bichloride and biniodide, are excellent, their curative or preven- tive action is weak. They have little effect on the lesions of the advanced stages, and permit recurrences more frequently than does inunction or the injection of the insoluble preparations. The chief disadvantages of the method of frequent injection of soluble salts are : (1) The injections are always more or less pain- ful. This, in view of the necessity for frequent, almost daily, adminis- tration, is a serious obstacle. (2) They are absorbed and eliminated too rapidly ; the spirochfctc is found to reappear very soon after the discontmuance of injection. (3) They require to be injected very frequently, usually daily, and therefore subject the patient to considerable inconvenience. Experience has converted me from a firm belief in the superior efhcacy of the soluble salts to a conviction of the greatly superior qualities of the insolul)Ie preparations as a routine treatment. Insoluble salts.—The method of infrequent injections of insoluble salts has the advantage that, owing to the slow absorp- tion and elimination of the salts, the patient may be continu- ously kept under the influence of mercury during the two years