TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 751 success. His experiments 011 monkeys proved successful in prevent- ing the development of the disease when applied to the point of inoculation within an liour or two of infection, as also in the case of the medical student already quoted, in whose case inunction at the point of inoculation prevented further developments. Neisser says : " There is no doubt that by the application of strong mercurial oint- ments very many syphilitic infections could be avoided, and I hold it to be the duty of every doctor to publish this fact wherever he can and to advise this individual prophylaxis." This question may, at present, be considered to be suh jiidice. Specific medication.—Many drugs have been used in the treatment of syphilis, among others sulphur, arsenic, gold, silver, platinum, sarsaparilla, guaiacum, sassafras, and many other vegetable preparations, iodide of potassium, and last, but, needless to say, not least, mercury and, as already mentioned, certain derivatives of arsenic. But most of these have long since ceased to be employed in the treat- ment of syphilis. Sarsaparilla proves of benefit in sypliilis in certain circumstances; but this is probably due more to its tonic and depurative effects than to any specific action. At one time iodide of potassium was believed to be a true specific in syphilis, but it has long since been relegated to the position of a mere adjunct to the real specifics, mercury and, now, the arsenical compounds. MERCURY In spite of misuse and mistakes in the past, mercury has long established itself as a true specific in syphilis as firmly as quinine in malaria. There is now little fear of mercury if properly adminis- tered in therapeutic doses. At the same time, certain unpleasant effects do sometimes ensue—namely, salivation, gastro-intestinal dis- orders, cutaneous eruptions, and disorders of nutrition. Salivation.—The stomatitis seen to-day is generally of a mild type, and does not damage the teeth or jaws ; yet sometimes even now severe cases occur, with intense inflammation of the whole buccal mucous membrane, accompanied by deep ulceration, local gangrene, necrosis of the jaw, and loss of teeth. Stomatitis of this degree of severity is nearly always the result of faulty methods of administration or of neglect of oral hygiene. A few cases, however, are due to some peculiar intolerance of mercury on the part of the patient. Before beginning a course of mercury all old tooth-stumps should be extracted and the teeth stopped and freed from tartar ; and concise rules should be given to the patient about the care of his teeth and gums while he is undergoing mercurial treatment. He should be warned as to the necessity of washing his teeth after each meal, and