ETIOLOGY OF SUPPURATION i/i susceptible to infection by the gonococcus as compared with that of the adult. It is a fact that some parts and tissues of the body are more immune to the suppurative process than others ; that is to say, the immunity may be local. Suppuration does not occur in hair, nails, or cartilage, and uncongenial soil is found in fibrous tissue, erectile tissue, and arterial tubes, except in aneurysm and infective embolism. With regard to blood as a soil or nidus, its bactericidal power to certain organisms is well established, and, though suppuration may extend from a vessel wall into a thrombus, it is commoner for an estabUshed thrombus to be the starting-point of the suppurative process. Suppuration is especially frequent in the cutaneous and sub- cutaneous tissues, 23articularly at the back of the neck—a fact not altogether explained by the frequency with which these tissues may be inoculated. The same remark applies to the matrix of the nail (whitlow). Certain micro-organisms are more prone to induce suppuration in certain tissues than in others. For instance, the gonococcus is most active on the mucous membrane of the iirethra, cervix uteri, and con- junctiva, less active on synovial and serous surfaces, and very slightly active in skin and subcutaneous tissue, lymphatic glands, and the adult vaginal mucous membrane. I have seen a streptococcal cutaneous erysipelas spreading fi-om the hand to the tissues about the base of the neck, and producing suppuration only in the bursa covering the olecranon process and in the supraclavicular lymphatic glands. The pus in these regions contained Streptococcus pyogenes in pure culture. I saw another case in the South African War, in which, fi'om a septic bullet-wound in the heel, cutaneous erysipelas spread upwards to the groin, yet the only part in which suppuration occurred was the pre- patellar bursa, and in this streptococci were the only micro-organisms observed microscopically. A person who has recovered from a prolonged supj^urative process may enjoy for a time immunity from the specihc micro-organism which induced the disease. The length of time which this active acquired immunity lasts varies with different micro-organisms. In dogs I found, exj^erimentally, that the active acquired immunity after a staphylococcus suppuration was very temporary, lasting about fourteen days. After a streptococcus infection, immunity may last about six weeks, whilst it is a well-established fact that after B. typhosus the immunity may be present for several years. Natural, and even acquired general immmiity can be diminished, and natural general susceptibility increased, by fatigue, starvation, alcoholism, exposure to cold or wet, and by diseases such as diabetes and nephritis.