129 SUFPURATIVF INFLAMMATION difficult ill 111,1cases to estimate the relative parts played l)v the bacteria and lln' clu'inicai ii'ritant. After ihr iiitri)ductiiiii of hactcria Id tlie tissues, there is a period during wliicii no reaction is observed, but in wliicii the bacteria are multiplying and producing their toxins. When this process has reaclietl a certain stage the definite reactions of inllaimnation are cxhil)ited. The capillaries of the part^ liecome dilated and engorged with blood. There is transudation nf lyiiipli. and emigration of leu- cocytes, this latter phenomenon being so extensive that at the inflam- matory focus the immigrated cells completely obscure the tissue cells. They show marked phagocytosis f0 the bacteria, and at the same time, probably owing to the action of the toxins produced by the bacteria, many of them underuo degenerative changes ami ultimately become dissolved (I'latc I'.i. Fig. 2). As long as the reactive processes in the tissues of the body are not able to overcome the bacteria, the eraigra- linn and subsequent destruction of the leucocytes will continue. Thus the suppurative inflammation may go on spreading indefinitely. When, liowe\-er. the bacteria have been conquered by the tissue cells, a local- ization of the destructive area is .seen and an abscess produced, the outer wall of this being a mass of leucocytes in which the degenerative changes are not marked, while the central part consists of degenerated and partially dissolvetl leucocytes and tissue fragments. Living bacteiia may still be present, but their activity and their number are much diminished. Li suppurative inflammation of serous surfaces, the fibrinous deposit which forms in the early stage of the inflammatory process may localize the bacteria, and thus the pus formation may be confined to a small area. Such localized suppurative conditions are found in the region of the appendix. At later stages the librin may become dissolved and a general spreading inflammation be produced, but in a consider- able proportion of cases the fibrinous adhesions may remain intact until the active period of the bacteria has come to an end and the acute inflammator\' pi'ocess has subsided. 4. Haemorrhagic inflammation.—Blood, in varying quan- lilies. may be fouml ui all classes of inflammatory exudates, though in soinr it may lie .so abundant and occur so early that the exudate may lie regarded as a definitely ha'morrhagic as distinguished from a serous, fibrinous, or jnirulent one. Such exudates usually indicate extensive changes, particularly of a fatty nature, in the endothelium of the capillary walls, due to the intensity of the primary lesion or to previous degenerative changes in the vascular .system, or in the blood and the blood-forming organs. They occur specially in positions in which the capillaries are not well supported—cj. in the lungs and on serous surfaces. J