INFLAMMATION 110 ACUTE INFLAMMATION It is important to bear in mind that inflammation is not a disease, but is tlie result of some noxious influence acting upon tlie tissues, and that when the cause is removed the process will gradually cease. The heat, redness, pain, and swelling which have always been asso- ciated with acute inflammation are easily explained by a study of the changes which take place. The mesentery and the web of the foot of the frog have been largely made use of in experiments on in- flammation. Equally convincing results may be obtained by using the omentum of the rabbit or of the guinea-pig (Plate 10). If any of these membranes are exposed under a microscope, a continuous stream of blood can be made out in tlie capillaries, arteries, and veins ; and if a vessel of sufficient size is examined, it will be observed that the blood-stream may be divided into a central yellowish zone, con- taining the blood cells, and a clear peripheral or plasmatic zone, containing only an occasional leucocyte. Observations on the rate of flow show that in the areas in which the capillaries and venules are dilated, the stream is slower than at other parts. Between the vessels there are fibrous and elastic tissues, as well as nodules of lymphatic tissue. If an irritant is applied to the membrane, a series of phenomena which are classed under the term " inflammation " is observed. Imme- diately after the application of the irritant there is a stage of anaemia, in which the arteries are contracted and the blood-flow accelerated. This, however, is only a transitory phenomenon, and is followed by a dilatation of the vessels, especially of the venules and capillaries, and a slowing of the blood-stream. This slowing may be extremely marked, and at local areas there may be actual arrest of the blood- flow. A change is also observed in the contents of the vessels, for, with the slowing of the stream, the clear plasmatic layer becomes gradually obscured, and careful examination shows that the leuco- cytes, especially the polymorphonuclear variety, have passed from the central to the peripheral clear layer, and are becoming adherent to the lining membrane of the vessels. The part is now red, and con- siderably swollen, and is seen to be bathed with lymph. The redness is due to the dilatation of the vessels, and the swelling mainly to the accumulation of lymph which has exuded from the dilated vessels. More careful observation of the leucocytes will show their amoeboid character becoming very pronounced : the pseudopodic processes are pushed against the walls of the minute vessels, and gradually project through them. The leucocytes become elongated and pear- shaped, and eventually escape into the surrounding tissues by the minute apertures through which the pseudopodia were first projected