CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST 57r form in the absence of a definite circumscribed tumour and the presence of an ill-defmed hardness involving a considerable part or even tlie whole of the breast. In some instances the affected breast is shrunken, the nipple deeply retracted, and the skin puckered and adherent, whilst in other cases the gland is enlarged and conical, and the nipple and skin are less altered. Such differences are dependent upon the different degrees of atrophy manifested by the tumour. In explanation of the origin of a diffuse carcinoma it may be assumed ■either that a considerable part of the glandular epithelium undergoes a carcinomatous change, and that the tumour is from the first diffuse, or that the disease originating at one spot rapidly spreads throughout the gland by way of the lymphatics. We believe the latter is the usual, if not the invariable, course of events. Microscopic examination usually demonstrates the presence of the glandular elements amongst the columns of cancer cells, and does not support the view that the glandular epithelium over a wide area is becoming converted into cancer. Cancer of both breasts is very rare, if those cases are excepted in which in the late stages of dissemination one or more nodules develop in the breast opposite to that in which the primary tumour originated. In cases in which carcinoma is detected simultaneously in both breasts a similar question arises as in diffuse carcinoma of one breast: Is the disease a primary development in both glands, or is the disease in the one the result of lymjohatic permeation from a primary tumour in the other ? Probably both explanations hold good, but in view of the fact that all paired organs show some tendency to the bilateral develop- ment of malignant growths and that in some cases of this kind no other secondary deposits are found, we believe that carcinoma may occur primarily in both breasts, and that if on each side the disease is favour- able for operation the double operation should be performed. Soft carcinoma of the breast is not common, and is rarely so soft as to justify the name encephaloid." Tumours of the breast, as of other parts which are brain-like in consistence, prove as a rule to be sarcomas and not carcinomas. The soft form of cancer usually occui-s as a more or less globular tumour in the substance of the breast. The various effects observed as the result of the contraction of a hard, shrink ing carcinoma, especially upon the slcin, nipple, and pectoral muscle, are usually absent or but slightly marked in the softer forms of the disease. The tumour tends to increase rapidly, causing early implication of the skin and invasion of the lymphatic glands. The diagnosis between soft carcinoma and true sarcoma of the breast may be impossible except by careful histological examination, and the clinical resemblance to other soft swellings, such as cysts containing papillomatous growths, may be very close. When in doubt as to whether a soft malignant