FIBROMA OF NKRVKS 371 of the nerves, and tlie diverse manifestations of tlie disease can be explained by the extent and limitations of this overgrowth, and the varying changes in the skin and connective tissue whicli mav accompany it. In a normal nerve the fibrous sheath which sur- rounds it is known as the epineurium; that which surrounds the separate nerve liundles is tlie perineui'ium, whilst the delicate tissue which holds together tlie individual nei v(^-fil)res of a Inindle is called the endoneurium. In neuro- fibromatosis the overgrowth chiefly concerns the endoneurium and the tissue which intervenes between the nerve-fibres and the perineurium. This becomes con- verted into " a delicate fibrillated network separating the original fibres or lamellce of the endo- neurium ; the fibrils of the net- work are the branching and anastomosing processes of cells; the latter are, for the most part, spindle-shaped with oval nuclei, and they lie either in the sj)aces of the network, or grasping the endoneurial lamellse" (Fig. 46). The perineurium is usually un- altered, but the epineurium may be thickened and more compact than usual. The nerve fibres, widely separated, often have a wavy course ; there is no evidence of new nerve formation, and degenerative changes, if they occur at all, are insignificant. The distribution of the fibrous overgrowth varies greatly; in some cases only a single nerve or plexus may be involved ; in others the dis- tribution is irregular or even generalized, and thus the spinal and cranial as well as the sympathetic nerves may be affected. The change is not limited to the larger nerve-trunks, but frequently extends to the ramifications in the skin and subcutaneous tissue, and even to the intramuscular branches. In tlie formation of neuro-fibromas the fibrous overgrowth occurs in excess at one or more spots on the nerve so as to produce localized soft fibrous tumours. A tumour of this nature may be sohtary and reach a large size, or multiple small tumours, sometimes numbering several hundred, may be present in the subcutaneous tissue of all parts of the body, except the palms and soles. Examination of the Fig. 40.—Microscopic section of a nerve, showing changes occurring in neuro-fibromatosis. The epi- neurium is unaltered. There is an overgrowth of connective tissue between and around the nerve fibres. Kt'ck/in^/iaiiSi ii's Die iNiiltipUn Fibroiihi ih r Hatit:-)