TUMOURS 364 ■wliicli are sometimes present over the protrusion of the membranes in a cranial or spinal meningocele, and it should always be borne in mind that a fatty tumour in the lumbo-sacral region, especially in an infant, may very likely lie over and obscure a small meningocele. It has happened, as the result of this fact, that the operation under- taken for the removal of such a tumour has proved to be far from the simple procedure which was anticipated, and has even resulted in death from meningitis. The name " arborescent lipoma " has been applied to certain fatty growths occasionally found in joints affected with rheumatoid arthritis. Such formations are in no sense true tumours, but merely represent a modification of the hypertrophy of the synovial fringes so common in this disease. A subsynovial fatty growth may, however, present itself as a localized tumour which, on account of its relation to one of the large joints, is liable to be mistaken for a synovial cyst. Rowlands has recorded a case of this nature, in which a tumour in front of the shoulder, and arising in the subsynovial tissue of the bicipital groove, closely resembled one of the synovial cysts first described by Morrant Baker, and known by his name. Submucous lipoma.—Fatty tumours may occur in connexion with mucous membranes, as those of the lar3mix, stomach, intestines, and the conjunctiva. In the intestine a lipoma is an occasional cause of obstruction, and in several recorded cases has resulted in intussus- ception. Bland-Sutton has recorded the case of a man aged 44, who for seven years had sufiered from indefinite intestinal disturbances, which culminated in an attack of threatened obstruction. At the operation a tumour was discovered in the bowel 2 inches below the ileo- colic valve, and proved to be a submucous lipoma weighing 2 oz. Submucous lipomas have been met with in various parts of the larynx, and Shattock has shown that fat cells are present nonnally in all the positions in which such tumours have been found. In the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons is a specimen of a lipoma, IJ inches in its greatest diameter, growing to the left of the middle line beneath the mucous membrane of the adjacent parts of the tongue and epiglottis. The tumour caused sudden death in a man 76 years of age. FIBROMA A fibroma is a tumour composed of undifferentiated white fibrous tissue, and, like it, varies much in the density of the fibrous stroma and the character and number of the cell elements. In view of the wide distribution of fibrous connective tissue throughout the body, it is remarkable that simple fibrous tumours are by no means common. Although all gradations are met with between the two