DIAGNOSTIC VALUE OF X-RAYS 621 any abnormality. The radiogram in Plate 36, Fig. 1, as already stated, is secured under the conditions usually adopted, whereas Fig. 2 sliows one secured with a definite and known anatomical relationshijj between the bones and the X-ray tube, namely, with the anode of the tube directly opposite the tip of the internal malleolus. To render this method of examination more perfect, I have devised a system of radiograpliy containing a definition of the relationships between the tube and tlie various parts of the body which have been found to give the most useful views, and also radiograms of the normal appearances of- each part at the ages respectively of 5, 15, and 2.5 years. By using this system the surgeon can secure a radiogram of any 23art of the body, of the requisite standard in quality, while he has at hand a normal radiogram of that part for comparison with the abnormal. Having secured a radiogram of good quality, it is necessary for the purpose of interpretation that it should be viewed in a suitable light. The best for the purpose is a bright light shaded with opal in a dark room. The negative may be viewed at its best while still wet. Considerable loss of detail follows the taking of prints, which for this reason may greatly detract from the value of tlie radiogram. It is a mistake to suppose that X-ray examination in the diagnosis of diseases can replace the older and well-tried clinical methods of investigation ; it is merely a useful means of acquiring knowledge which, in conjunction with accurate clinical investigation, leads to a more correct diagnosis and prognosis, and is often most useful by suggesting a more suitable line of treatment. It must be remembered that this method of investigation has been in use only a comparatively short time. In some diseases no definite statement is yet possible tliat may not prove in the future to be misleading. DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, JAWS, PHARYNX, AND SALIVARY GLANDS X-ray examination is found to be useful in the diagnosis of some diseases occurring in the above situations. In abscess of the maxilla the exact position and extent of the abscess cavity may easily be discovered. The normal dense bone in the situa- tion corresponding to the abscess is replaced by more translucent material, which is sharply difierentiated fi'om the surrounding bone. The cause of the abscess may also be ascertained ; thus, should it be due to a " bedded tooth-root," the real cause of the trouble may be localized and dealt with. In the radiogram of a maxillary abscess (Plate 36, Fig. 3) the sharply defined area of increased translucency.