SUPPURATION Amyloid disease occurs chiefly in cases of prolonged suppuration, and practically always affects several organs—first either the spleen or the liver, then the kidney, less often the small intestine, and other organs or tissues. The homogeneous newly-formed material is deposited in the cardio-vascular system, and as the disease advances the functional cells atrophy from pressure and probably also from a diminution of the blood supply. The affected organ is enlarged, firm and pale, with a semitranslucent, waxy appearance. In the case of the spleen the Malpighian bodies may be affected chiefly, giving rise to the condition called " sago spleen," or the walls of the vascular sinuses in the pulp may show the more advanced change. In the capillaries the disease is outside the endo- thelial lining, which may show fatty degeneration. In larger arteries the deposition and infiltration occur in the delicate fibrous tissue of the middle (muscular) coat. In advanced amyloid disease the con- nective tissue in other situations may also be affected. The blood in suppuration.—The blood pressure may be subject to slight variations. T. G. Brodie and I demonstrated a marked fall of pressure on injecting into the veins large doses of a culture of staphylococcus. In suppuration many changes are induced in the blood and tissues in connexion with (1) the cell element, (2) the plasma element. 1. The cell element, i. Leucocytosis.-—In suppuration, not due to actinomyces or B. tuberculosis or B. typJiostis, leucocytosis is marked unless the disease be rapidly fatal or of a profoundly toxic type, in which case it is absent, or the leucocytes are diminished in number (leucopsenia). In a common type of case leucocytosis increases with the development of the disease ; it subsides shortly after the disease has disappeared, when the number of leucocytes may be fewer than normal. The presence of marked leucocytosis is a valuable sign ; by some it is considered sufficient to justify a good prognosis. In those cases which ought to show a leucocytosis, but which actually show a leucopsenia, the prognosis is decidedly bad. The presence of leucocytosis is a valuable indication in the diagnosis of cases where suppuration is occurring in obscure parts, and its presence or absence is of value in prognosis. ii. Phagocytosis.—In suppurative changes the products of micro- organisms give off substances which induce an active migration and proliferation of leucocytes. All leucocytes possess the power of ingesting micro-organisms, but the lymphocytes and eosinophile leucocytes do not possess it to a great degree. Although the polynuclear neutrophile leucocytes are the most active phagocytes, they exhibit marked variations in the number of micro-organisms individual cells take up.