GRANULATION-TISSUE CELLS or healing by first intention.—In these cases, as in a clean- cut ojseration wound, the healing may be quite complete in a few days. The changes which take place in such a case differ only quantitatively from those seen in healing by second intention. There is the same development of new vessels and the same proliferation of connective- tissue cells : a very thin layer of granulation tissue is formed, but this is identical in its structure with that seen in larger and more slowly healing wounds. THE CELLS OF GRANULATION TISSUE (Plate 21, Fig. 2) Much discussion has taken place as to the origin and function of the various cells found in granulation tissue, and brief reference must be made to the subject for a proper understanding of present-day literature. The leucocytes of the blood are always present in vary- ing numbers, in the majority of instances the polymorphonuclear forms being considerably in excess of the mononucleated ones ; but in certain cases, and especially where the granulation tissue is infected with the organisms of tuberculosis or of syphilis, the lymphocytes, or at any rate basophile leucocytes resembling the lymphocytes, may constitute the vast proportion of the cells. In chronic inflammatory conditions, where the granulation tissue has developed slowly, it is common to find collections of small lymphocyte-like cells—the so- called small-celled infiltration. According to Maximow, these cells are mainly true lymphocytes which have migrated from the blood-vessels (Plate 22, Fig. 1), but there seems to be a considerable amount of evidence that many of them are derived from proliferation of the cells of pre-existing lymphoid tissue, while some, it is generally agreed, are adventitious cells of the blood-vessels and also proliferated pre-existing connective-tissue cells. It is very commonly stated that the plasma cells, which many authors describe as occurring m connexion with chronic skin diseases and syphilis, are present in greater or less numbers in granulation tissue. Much confusion exists in regard to these cells (see p. 119), because of the uncertainty as to what different authors mean when they write about plasma cells. Many of the cells described as such are undoubtedly lymphocytes, while others are as certainly proliferated connective-tissue cells. There can, we think, be little doubt that the endothelial cells lining lymph spaces and blood-vessels may be set free during the growth of granulation tissue, may wander from the vessels, and may act as very active phagocytes. Clasmatocytes.—Spindle-shaped, branching cells, with irregular