WOUNDS OF BLOOD-VESSELS 279 in infection and should be avoided if possible. The nature of the wound in the artery renders suture of its wall impracticable. Opera- tions for haemorrhage are not often necessary, but are urgent, and may have to be done in the Field Ambulance. Interstitial haemorrhage requires treatment on the same lines as external haemorrhage. If the swelling is not very tense and has ceased to enlarge, it may be left alone ; but if bleeding is continuing, or there is much tension, the haematoma must be laid open, emptied, and the wounded vessel tied on both sides of the wound. If for any reason proximal ligature of the main aitery is preferred, it is still necessary to incise and empty the haematoma to relieve tension. Secondary haemorrhage, which is rarely seen in civil practice nowadays, is to be feared in septic gunshot wounds. It requires immediate operation to secure the bleeding vessel in the wound. Failing this, proximal ligature may be tried, and, should the bleeding recur or gangrene set in, nothing remains but amputation. Gangrene after proximal ligature is more likely to occur in the lower limb. Circumscribed traumatic aneurysms form when the escape of blood from a wounded artery is limited by the resistance of the sur- rounding tissues, wliich form a false sac. They present the usual signs and symptoms of aneurysm, and require the same treatment. Under the influence of prolonged rest they may occasionally undergo spontaneous cure. Arterio-venous communications are not uncommon from simul- taneous wounding of an artery and a vein. The symptoms common to both forms are a well-marked thrill and a loud buzzing murmur, which may even be audible at a short distance from the patient in some cases. In a varicose aneurysm there is, in addition, a sac with expansile pulsation. There is little or no impairment of the local circulation, but the pulse-rate is permanently accelerated. Prolonged rest is the treatment at first; aneurysmal varix requires no inter- ference, as a rule; varicose aneurysm tends to progress towards rupture and must be dealt with. Direct ligature of the artery above and below the sac should be done whenever possible, and interference with the vein is to be avoided. In the smaller vessels of the calf or forearm it may be simpler to lay open the sac and then secure the artery. Repair of the artery by suture is sometimes possible. Proximal ligature for varicose aneurysm involves great risk of gangrene, and does not cure the condition, but merely converts a varicose aneurysm into an aneurysmal varix. It is to be avoided if possible. Wounds of nerves are fairly common. In addition to partial or complete division, nerves sufEer from a peculiar form of injury known as concussion, which is seen only in gunshot wounds. In