897 TREATMENT OF ANTHRAX Prognosis.—Tlie prognosis, when tha pustule is seen early, is distinctly good. In the above series of 100 cases the mortality was only 9 per cent. Even when there is extensive oedema, with throm- bosis of the subcutaneous veins, and severe constitutional symptoms are present, a considerable proportion of patients recover under energetic treatment. Treatment.—As soon as the condition is diagnosed an antes- thetic should be administered and the pustule freely excised, the incision extending downwards to the deep fascia. The raw surface should be treated either with pure carbolic acid, sulphur emulsion, or the actual cautery. The womid is left to granulate, and when its appearance is healthy it may be skin-grafted. If there is much oedema a 1-20 carbolic lotion may be injected around the excised area. Davies- CoUey found that ipecacuanha had a marked action in retarding the growth of the bacilli, and he accordingly suggested that the wounds should be dressed with powdered ipecacuanha, and that the de-emetized drug should be administered internally—a method which gave excel- lent resrdts. Recently, anthrax has been treated with anti-anthrax serum. This method has given very good results, and it should be used in all cases in which extensive oedema, mucli constitutional disturbance, or anthraca3mia is present. When it is used alone the pustules have in some cases healed without any surgical treatment. The results obtained by surgical measures are, however, so good that at present the serum treatment should be used in conjunction witli excision of the pustule. BIBLIOGRAPHY Andrewes, F. W., and C. B. Lockwood, Brit. Med. Joum., 1905, i. Ki. Davies-Colley, I. N. C, Gi(i/\s Hosp. Eepts., 1890, p. 1 ; and Med.-Chir. Trans., Ixv. 237. Legge, T. M., Milroy Lectures, Brit. Med. Journ., 190.5, p. 589. Mitchell, W., Brit. Med. Journ., 1905, ii. 118. Sclavo, Berl. Mill. Woch., 1901, S. 491. , Stretton, J. L., Lancet, 1905, i. 1420 and 292. Teacher, J. H., Lancet, 1906, i. 1306.