876 ACTINOMYCOSIS " pepper granules " in a viscid and sometimes watery medium. The overlying skin becomes mottled and purplish. True suppuration and lymphatic adenitis are absent unless secondary infection by pyo- genetic organisms has taken place. The disease spreads by continuity, but occasionally invades a vein, and then may exhibit metastasis. In special sites.—1. In the head and neck, which is by far the commonest seat of the disease, the infection nearly always commences from a carious tooth or from an abrasion of the mucous membrane. Thence it spreads to the lower jaw and cheek, though occasionally it may extend to the tongue, upper jaw, vertebral column, or even the base of the skull and brain. The disease pursues the course described above : multiple abscesses, discharging sticky exudate con- taining " pepper granules," are formed in a mass of diffuse or nodu- lar induration. Simultaneous cicatrization near the primary focus, and spread down the planes of the neclc, occur, until perhaps, finally, the disease reaches the mediastina, leaving behind it a dense, fibrous track of distorted and nodular scar. It may extend from one side of the neck to the other. Stiffness of the neck and difficulty in swallowing and breathing may result. The great vessels are surrounded, but usually escape, though Ponfick, Schlange, and others have recorded cases of erosion into the jugular veins and general metastatic actino- mycotic " pyfemia." If the disease enters at the angle of the mouth it may lead to very extensive deformity, as in a Chinaman seen by the writer in 1908. 2. The ahclomen.—In the alimentary tract below the pharynx, primary cases have been reported in the oesophagus by Mikulicz and others, but they are rare. Similarly, the stomach and small gut are relatively immune as compared with the large intestine. By far the greater proportion of gastro-intestinal cases occur in the region of the cfecum, appendix, and ascending colon. The chief growth is in the submucosa, where it commences as flattened, greyish nodules ; owing to early secondary infection, softening and destruction are early and extensive. The peritoneum soon becomes involved. Dense adhe- sions form and become riddled by the disease, which thus, preceded by adhesions, spreads to all the surrounding structures and organs, pene- trating any variety of tissue, even bone, until it may ultimately reach the abdominal wall and perforate it through many fistulte. In like man- ner the abscesses may burst into the bladder, kidney, or pleura. Ffecal fistulae are not infrequent, but intestinal obstruction is a rare sequel. Clinically, the signs are, at first, malnutrition and secondary ansemia, sometimes irregular fever, and some intestinal catarrh, followed sooner or later by the discovery of a hard but ill-defined and usually painless tumour, which may show areas of semi-fluctuation.