658 GENERAL ANAESTHESIA Although valvular disease of the heart does not per se necessitate any departure from the ordinary rules in choosing an angestlietic, unless compensation is broken, yet whenever the heart's action is weak ether has special advantages. Thus, in cases of collapse from recent injury or long, grave illness, this is the drug to employ, generally by the " open method." Even in cases of empyema, which are usually best met by chloroform, if the general condition is sufBciently feeble, "open ether" should be employed; and the same maybe said of asthmatic subjects. In cases of renal disease with marked albuminuria, chloroform is less li]cely to increase the albumin than is ether. Moreover, cases of oedema of the -lung have occurred with the latter drug in these circumstances. Diabetes may be terminated by coma after anassthesia, however induced. The danger is diminished by reducing the sugar beforehand, and by shortening the anajsthesia as far as possible. Per- sons under the influence of opium or similar drugs require particularly careful handling during anaesthesia, from the point of view of giving only as much of the anresthetic as is absolutely necessary. Those accustomed to the free use of alcohol require large amounts of anaes- thetic. Ether should play a prominent part in the management of these cases, in which there is frequently present a fatty condition of the heart that is not compatible with safety if chloroform is freely employed. Patients suffering from conditions associated ivith droivsiness—e.g. cerebral tumour, advanced renal disease—require but little anfesthetic. Generally in such cases a deep degree of anaesthesia is only necessary to ensure quiet during the skin incision, as, for example, while the flap is made from the scalp in cerebral cases and during the first inci- sion in the loin in calculus cases in which uraemia has already begun. During all the subsequent stages of the operation the anaesthetic is administered in the smallest possible quantities. Chloroform is gener- ally best suited to these cases. Pregnancy is no bar to anaesthesia if operation becomes necessary during this condition. Care must be taken, though, to avoid the causation of cyanosis, which may induce premature labour. In childbirth itself chloroform is well borne, and in ordinary cases is used only during the pains and after the os is nearly fully dilated. A condition of surgical anaesthesia is not required. When this is necessary for operative midwifery, safety is best ensured by using ether, as in surgical cases. Lactation has no especial bearing upon the choice of anaesthetics, but it is important that the baby be not suckled until the mother has eliminated the anaesthetic. Thus it is best to have the baby bottle-fed for twenty- four hours after the mother's operation. In this connexion it may be mentioned that when the mother is subjected to a long administra-