369 FIBROMA Treatment.—A subcutaneous fibroma must be removed by dis- section, and cannot be enucleated like a lipoma. In removing a tibrous tumour of tlie cutis it is necessary to excise tlie part of tiie skin in which the tumour grows. The removal of a ciieloid by operation is unsatisfactory on account of the tendency of the fibrous growth to recur in the resulting scar. If this treatment is adopted it is necessary to remove a wide margin of skin around the visible edge of the cheloid, as in this situation the fibrous growth is extending around the vessels. The reports as to the utility of thiosinamin and fibrolysin in this affection are somewhat conflicting, but the results of treatment with X-rays, and especially radium, have been very encouraging. Fibrous tumours in muscles and fasciae.—Fibrous tumours are occasionally met witli in the fascia- and in connexion with the muscles and their sheaths. As an example of this variety may be mentioned the fibrous tumours sometimes growing in the abdominal wall, especially in women. Ledderhose found that 90 per cent, occurred in women, and that, of the !JU women, 70 had borne children. It thus seems probable that the tumours may in some way be connected with injury to the abdominal wall resulting from stretching. The most common seat of these tumours is the sheath of the rectus muscles, and in their growth they are apt to extend longitudinally in the direction of the muscle fibres. The diagnosis of a deeply seated fibrous tumour in the abdominal wall may be difficult, but the distinction from an intra- abdominal tumour can usually be made by observing the effect produced on the tumour by contraction of the abdominal muscles. The removal of such a tumour may or may not involve opening the peritoneal cavity; and, if it is of large size, special steps must be taken to strengthen the abdominal wall and prevent the subsequent develop- ment of a hernia. Tumours sometimes occurring in the skin of the abdominal wall are probably closely allied to the more deeply seated fibromas, although in our experience they should be regarded rather as slowly growing fibro-sarcomas—the recurrent fibroids of the older surgeons. In the Museum of University College Hospital are two specimens of this nature. In one the strip of skin removed by operation includes a hard fibrous tumour 4-5 cm. in diameter, and several small tumours form- ing slightly raised smooth elevations on the surface. The patient, a woman aged -52, noticed in her thirtieth year a hard white growth in the skin of the lower part of the abdominal wall after the birtli of her second child. Four years later another small tumour appeared near the first and gradually coalesced with it, whilst others formed subsequently. The history of this case suggests a likely origin of the fibrous groAvths in tlie line;e atrophicce. Y