SPINAL ANALGESIA very small quantity of a general anaesthetic. Spinal analgesia is no contra-indication to this, and a very much smaller amount of ether or chloroform will be required than would otherwise be the case. Possible dangers of spinal analgesia.—Experience goes to show that these arise very rarely. They are :— L Septic meningitis.—This must come first on the list because when it occurs the condition is hopeless. With ordinary care it should never be seen. Almost the only recorded cases are those occurring in the presence of already established pyaemia, which, as stated, is a contra-indication to the method. 2. Injury to the cauda equina.—Although few complaints are made by patients of the pain which points to this accident, it must be admitted that contact with the needle does from time to time occur. Provided that the puncture is gently performed, little damage can result; and even were one of the nerves to be pierced, this would still probably be so, since Cushing's practice of injecting nerve-trunks as a protection against shock is not followed by any ill effects. 3. Injury to the spinal cord.—This could only happen as the result of injection above the first lumbar spine. With reasonable care and a fine needle there is little probability of any damage being done, even where high injections are made. The slightest contact with the cord would at once be felt. It is doubtful even if a slight puncture would injure the cord. 4. Haemorrhage into the spinal canal.—For the reasons already given, this accident is improbable. Experience shows it to be extremely rare. 5. Persistence of paresis or paraesthesia.^—This is also rare, but it is quite possible where preparations of suprarenal gland are used. It can only be due to pathological changes in the cornual cells or in the nerve roots. As an immediate consequence of the injection it might be attributed to the former ; but if occurring at a later date and involving only the distribution of one nerve or part of a nerve, it suggests fibrosis from puncture of that nerve ; or in the case of monoplegia or paraplegia, haemorrhage into the spinal canal or theca. 6. Retention of urine and incontinence of faeces.— Little is known of these complications, no sufficiently authenticated case having been reported. 7. Toxaemia.—The various analgesics differ in their degree of toxicity, and the depth of the toxaemia is not entirely due to the amount of the drug used. Some patients undoubtedly exhibit idios3m- crasy to some of them, even in comparatively small doses insufficient to produce high analgesia ; and this must be remembered in dealing with children.