SUPPURATION I82 not be seen as branching, more or less straight, red lines, stretching from the area of disease towards the nearest lymphatic glands ; they are most marked in streptococcic and acute staphylococcic lesions. The nearest lymphatic glands are frequently enlarged and tender, and give rise to a sensation of local stiffness. The lymphatic vessels may, however, pass the nearest glands without obviously affecting them, and empty into more distant glands. The enlarged glands may become adherent to each other, and confluent if they suppurate. If suppuration have not occurred, the adherent glands may, upon subsidence of the local disease, gradually become discrete and, after a time, possibly as long as a year or two, may become practically nor- mal in size. Suppuration may appear in any part of the lymphatic vascular tract between the local disease and the lymphatic glands. In some cases of lymphangitis of this kind, I have observed that bursa? intervening between a lesion and the lymphatic glands into which it drains suppurate as if they were in direct lymphatic communication. The bursa patellae in one case, the bursa over the olecranon process in another, and the bursa under the gluteus maximus in yet another, I have seen as the only foci of secondary suppuration. In the case of the olecranon bursa there was no suppuration at the primary seat of infection. All were cases of pure streptococcus infection. Constitutional.—The profound poisoning is attended by rapidly increasing weakness, loss of weight, dry tongue, night sweats, and vomiting. The patient looks and feels ill, and may fall into the typhoid ( tate ; his anxious expression and occasional mental depression are marked and suggestive features of the condition. Pyrexia.—One of the commonest and earliest constitutional indi- cations of impending suppuration is a rise of temperature following a rigor, or sensation of chilliness, or an inclination to shiver. Most suppurative conditions are accompanied by fever, but the absence of fever does not indicate a mild infective process. Many cases of severe and even fatal illness may never exhibit fever higher than 99° or 100° F. The height of the fever may vary in different cases, although it may be caused by the same micro-organism. Fever affords no clue to the identity of the micro-organism. It is due to the products of micro-organisms, to metabolic substances, and possibly also to autolysins, which are thrown into the circulation from the blood- cells and tissue-cells killed during suppuration. Eclampsia with its accompanying fever is regarded by many observers as being due to the absorption of autolysins which are developed at the placental site. The varieties of pyrexia in suppurative processes are (1) saprsemia, (2) .septicasmia, and (3) pytemia. 1. Saprcemia, of which there are two forms, is due to the absorption