HEMORRHAGE : TREATMENT 311 latter with the best means of stopping the loss by local treatment of the bleedino- vessel. General treatment.—The indications for general treatment are as follows :—■ 1. To produce such conditions as will favour the clotting of , the blood in the vessels and so bring about the temporary arrest of hcemorrliage. 2. To keep the brain supplied with blood during the period of actual loss while the patient is in the condition of shock due to loss of blood. 3. To supply the actual amount of fluid lost by the liferaor- rhage and so maintain the arterial blood pressure and combat shock. 4. To stimulate as far as possible the blood-forming organs, so that they may quickly replace both in quantity and quality the blood which has escaped. The methods of meeting these indications will be discussed under various headings. Posture.—In the majority of cases of hsemorrhage, especially surgical haemorrhage, the patient should be placed lying in bed with the foot of the bed raised so that the head is the lowest part of the body, and the pillow should be removed. This posture will favour a good supply of blood to the vital centres in the medulla, without which life cannot continue. The jiatient should be kept warm with hot-water bottles placed in the bed, but heat sufficient to cause sweat- ing should be avoided. Restlessness, which is often a distressing symptom, should be quietly restrained, and as far as possible the patient should be reassured. In cases of bleeding from a large wound, and when the haemorrhage can be temporarily arrested, if there is no shock the patient should be anagsthetized as soon as possible to permit thorough aseptic treatment of the wound as well as more secure arrest of the bleeding. Drugs.—Morphia, given preferably by hypodermic injection, is often useful to prevent restlessness and to act as a general sedative, especially in cases where there is severe pain as well as haemorrhage. It is particularly valuable in those cases of bleeding, such as from the lungs, stomach, or intestine, in which surgical interference is contra- indicated or impossible, and reliance must be entirely placed on the natural temporary arrest, aided by general treatment. It has no direct value in arresting haemorrhage. Ergot (or its preparations, or its alkaloid), given hypodermically, causes a contraction of llie muscular coats of the arteries, and so diminishes tiie'.v lumina and the size of the blood-stream ; at the same time it raises the blood pressure by peripheral vaso-constiiction and