SPINAL ANALGESIA yo6 AVhen injection is to be performed, 1 c.c. of whicliever stryclinine solu- tion is required is withdrawn by the syringe from the bottle and i& injected into the tube which contains the stovaine in powder in the amount required. When this is dissolved the solution is again drawn up into the syringe. Small quantities of stovaine should be used where the patient is feeble or has lost much blood. The patient is placed in either of the two positions already described (p. 695), and the puncture is made—for a high analgesia, between the spines of the first and second dorsal vertebrte ; for a low analgesia, between the last dorsal and first lumbar spines. The head and shoulders are then gently lowered, and the analgesia becomes complete within two to three minutes for head and five to seven minutes for thoracic operations. The originator of this method^ maintains that it is unnecessary to sterilize the dry stovaine, the strychnine being sufficiently anti- septic to obviate any danger of sepsis. The water, however, and all tubes, needles, etc., must be perfectly sterilized. By means of this process Professor Jonnesco and his assistants,. Professors Janio and Nasta, state that they have operated successfully on 156 cases requiring analgesia by high dorsal puncture, and that in no case has any dangerous symptom been noted. The after-effects are similar to those already mentioned. No special syringe is required for the injection ; any syringe which wUl hold the required quantity of solution, and any needle which is long enough to reach the theca, may be used. This method must, however, for the present be considered as sub judice. Having submitted nine cases to it in the Seamen's Hospital, Greenwich, I found the efEects by no means constant, and, although some of these cases were entirely satisfactory, the failure in others was such as to suggest that the method is not unattended by danger. The details are set out in the following table :— Results of High Analgesia at the Seamen's Hospital Operation Injection Analgesia Result 1. Resection of rib for em- pyema 2. For epigastric hernia 3. Proposed gas- trotomy (not attempted) 7th dorsal To eyes Successful. Respiration un- affected. 7th dorsal To eyes Successful. Resi)iration un- affected. 7th aorsal (?) Patient became unconscious and ceased to breathe. Pulse strong throughout. Artificial respiration, 65 minutes. Recovery. 1 Details will be found in the Brit. Med. Jourii., Nov. 14, 1909.