312 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES so increases the force of the stream. This general rise of blood pressure may more than counteract the good local effect of th3 contracted arteries, and the loss of blood may be increased. This drug is probably only of marked value in bleeding from the uterus. It has the same effect on the unstriped muscidar tissue of this organ as on the middle coat of the arteries, and, by causing strong muscular contraction, squeezes the veins and blood-sinuses in the uterine wall and so arrests the bleeding. Ergot is largely used in midwifery and gynaecology, being par- ticularly valuable in post-partum hcemorrhage, and it has also been xised in the treatment of haemoptysis. Acetate of lead, tannic acid, gallic acid, adrenalin, and hamamelis have all been used as general hsemostatics on account of their vaso- constrictor action ; but they are probably of little value, whether given by the mouth or hypodermically. Calcium chloride.—This drug has been largely used, both in the prophylaxis and in the treatment of haemorrhage ; but its value is doubtful. In the phenomenon of coagulation of the blood calcium salts play a large, if not thoroughly understood, part. Blood deprived of its calcium salts will not clot, and in haemophilia the blood is said to be deficient in calcium. The rationale of giving calcium chloride is to supply the calcium lacking in the blood or to increase it in quantity. It has been used in the treatment of bleeding in liEemophilics, and lias been largely given both before and after operations to patients in whom difficulty of arresting hcemorrhage was anticipated. Thus it is given to patients suffering from jaundice, pancreatic disease, leuco- cythaemia, etc. The value of the drug in these cases has been much called in question, and many surgeons have discarded its use altogether in jaundiced patients, but others insist on its value and give it in all cases. The questions of its dosage and the length of time during which it is given are probably important, and variations in these may account lor some of the discrepancies in accounts of its value. The probability is that it does no harm and can be given in suitable cases without fear. When it is decided to use the drug in cases of jaundice, it should be given in 30-grain doses every four hours for a day or two before the operation, and its use continued afterwards for three or four days, either by the mouth or, if this is inadvisable, by rectal injection. Stimulants.—The effect of stimulants, alcohol, strychnine, caffeine, etc., is to increase for a longer or shorter period the force of the heart's beat. This raises the arterial pressure, if vaso-dilatation does not occur, and will increase the haemorrhage. Many cases of intermediary haemorrhage are undoubtedly caused by the injudicious use of stimulants, the increased blood pressure forcing the temporary clots out of those blood-vessels which have not been securely tied.