CAUSATION OF MALIGNANT GROWTHS 463 tissue cells by which they become a sarcoma, or of epithelial cells which constitutes the growth of a carcinoma ? In a more concrete form the question presents itself thus—Is the growth of a malignant tumour caused by a specific infective agent entering the body from without, or by some permanent modification of the metabolic processes of the cells ? On general grounds several difiiculties present themselves in accepting the view that malignant growths are infective in nature and caused by a microbic agent. In undoubtedly infective diseases, such as tuberculosis, the extension of the disease occurs in inverse proportion to the vitality of the tissues, whereas in the case of malig- nant tumours it is proverbial that the growth is most rapid in the young and vigorous, and correspondingly slow in aged subjects with tissues of lowered vitality. This suggests that the extension of a malignant growth is in some way dependent upon the vitality of the tissues in which it lies. Again, it may be argued that if malignant growths were due to a microbic agent their spontaneous arrest and involution would not be very uncommon, whereas such an occurrence, as will be seen subsequently, is one of extreme rarity. The following consideration in relation to the metastases of car- cinoma has a similar bearing. The secondary growths almost always correspond in a very striking manner with the primary growth, and the co-existence of carcinomas of dift'erent structure is extremely rare. If the cells of a carcinoma contain a living parasitic agent, upon which the cell proliferation depends, it might be supposed that this infective body, carried to parts in which epithelium of another t}^e exists, would cause the development of a corresponding form of carcinoma, or—to give an example of what might be expected, but as a matter of fact does not occur—a spheroidal-celled carcinoma of the breast involving the skin would be likely to infect the squamous epithelium of the latter and cause the growth of a squamous-celled carcinoma. In the search for parasitic bodies in the cells of malignant tumours the carcinomas have cliiefly been the subject of investigation, and observers too numerous to mention have described and figured cancer cells in which bodies believed to be parasites were present. The earliest observers regarded the supposed parasites as bacterial in nature, until bodies resembling coccidia were described by, amongst others, Darier and Wickham, who saw them in the epithelial cells of Paget's disease of the nipple, a form of chronic dermatitis which stands in a close causal relation to carcinoma of the breast. Later ap- peared the observations of Russell, Soudakewitch, Ruffer and Walker, Phmmer, Sanfehce, and others. The work of Rufier and Wallcer was of especial interest because the intracellular bodies described l)y them