SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY inoculating animals with pure cultures he established its specificity, and his results were confirmed by the work of Pasteur. Pasteur, more- over, introduced the practice of vaccinating animals with attenuated cultures of the micro-organism as a protective measure against the natural disease. Owing to its large size, its spore-formation, and the ease with which it is cultivated, it has been very widely employed in the study of the general problems of bacteriology. The organism is by far the largest of the pathogenetic bacilli, and measures 3-10 or more long, by 1-1-5 yu. in width. Its ends are usually square and sharply cut, but they may at times be even slightly concave. In culture it grows out into filaments of indefinite length which are composed of separate individuals linked together so as to form a characteristic streptobacillus. But in the body of an infected animal it is rarely seen in chains of more than three or four, and usually occurs as single or paired rods. It has no flagella, and is not motile. It is capsulated when obtained from tissue fluids. In culture on artificial media, but not in the living body of an animal, it produces spores which are of oval shape, highly refractile, and usually placed centrally within the bacillus. The spore does not expand the rod or change its contour. Spore-formation only occurs in the presence of oxygen. The bacillus stains well with watery solution of the ordinary basic aniline dyes. In suitable preparations the spores can easily be differ- entiated by staining with carbol fuchsin, decolorizing with weak acid, and counterstaining with malachite green according to the method already described (p. 41). The spores are stained red, and the bacteria themselves are gxeen. The bacillus is Gram-positive. In examining blood-films or pus for this organism it is advisable to stain by Gram, and counterstain with watery eosin. The organism is aerobic, but can grow slowly under anaerobic conditions. It grows luxuriantly on the ordinary media in the presence of oxygen. In bouillon it produces a stringy, cotton-wool-like mass of growth which lies at the bottom of the tube, leaving the fluid clear. In a gelatin-stab there is a disc of growth upon the surface, and a continuous line along the stab showing lateral offshoots and presenting an appearance frequently described as resembling an inverted pine-tree. This so-called " spiking " may be absent in old laboratory strains, but reappears at once if the bacillus be passed through an animal or once transplanted to the surface of blood agar. After some days the gelatin tube exhibits a marked cone of liquefaction. On the surface of an agar-slope there is formed a pearly-greyish, rather glistening film of a granular appearance, while isolated colonies