5-^5 CARCINOMA OF THE SKIN Of especial interest in this connexion are certain cases of malignant hypernephroma recorded by Albrecht and others, in which a single bone deposit was the only metastasis. In a case of this nature recorded by Scudder of the Massachusetts General Hospital, a supposed sarcoma of the upper end of the humerus proved, after amputation at the shoulder-joint, to have the histological structure of an adrenal tumour. Attention was thus drawn to an indefinite tumour of the left renal region, which proved to be a hyjjernephroma. At the patient's death, nearly five years later, no other evidence of metastasis was discovered. In a similar case recorded by Pool, a pulsating tumour of the upper extremity of the fibula, also regarded before operation as a sarcoma, proved to be a secondary liypernephroma, and the patient, a man aged 57, subsequently showed signs of a rapidly growing tumour in the position of the right kidney. A consideration of such cases serves to emphasize the fact that in every case regarded as a primary sarcoma of bone, especially when occurring in a middle-aged or elderly subject, the surgeon must carefully consider the possibility that the tumour is secondarj', and search for any evidence of a primary growth. Situation.—From what has been said, it is evident that a carcinoma may develop in any situation in which epithelium is present. A short description will now be given of the most important characters of the disease in the difi^erent regions and organs. Carcinoma of the skin usually assumes the histological structure of the squamous-celled form (Figs. 129, 130), but different tumours vary in the extent to which the epithelial cells undergo keratinization, and in some tumours this change is so little marked that the structure approximates to that of the carcinoma simplex. The special form of cancer of the skin known as rodent ulcer will be separately described. Carcinoma of the skin affords some of the most striking examples of the relation of the disease to various forms of chronic irritation, ulceration and scarring, and, indeed, it is very rare for a cancer of the skin to arise independently of some pre-existing pathological condition. For this reason it is difficult to describe the earliest appearance of the tumour, which often begins as an apparently insignificant cliange in the characters of some simple ulcer or cicatrix. Two chief varieties may, however, be recognized—the warty form and the ulcerating form. In the warty form the surface of the growth presents a coarse, irregularly papillary appearance, wliich may closely resemble that of a simple papilloma, from whicli. however, it can usually be distinguished by the greater irregularity of the surface, and especially by the liard base upon which the papillary surface rests. The ulcerating form may, in its early stage, present no characteristic feature, but the indurated base is often noticeable, and as the ulcer extends it assumes