FISH WOUNDS 921 and erysipelas, gangrene, or even tetanus may supervene. If the worm is burst within the skin, ova may be discharged from the sinus for some time, with constant irritation, or the flea may die and act as a foreign body. The diagnosis in a country where the disease is endemic is easy, and the extraction of the flea itself is conclu.sive evidence. Treatment.—The affected area should be soaked in hot soda solution for some hours (Black), the small external opening enlarged with a fine-bladed scalpel or needle, and the flea removed—if possible without injuring it or spilling its contents. Antiseptic applications and dressings should be employed till the sinuses have healed. Toes may require to be amputated in severe cases, and gangrene or deep septic infiltration must be dealt with as occasion demands. Prophylaxis must consist in brushing the floors, anointing the feet with various strong-smelling antiseptics and parasiticidal applica- tions, and carefully examining them daily. Leather shoes or sandals should be worn, and the floors may be kept wet with carbolic lotion or petroleum to prevent the development of the ova. POISONED WOUNDS INFLICTED BY FISH In addition to the well-recognized symptoms of poisoning resulting from the eating of certain fish, particularly shell-fish, either fresh or partially putrid, and the risks of contracting a specific disease, as in the case of typhoid from infected oysters, quite severe and dangerous wounds may be caused by contact with some of the hard-skinned fishes, which are armed with sharp, sometimes barbed, spines in different situations. Some of these fish, such as the sting-rays—stingaree— the Scorpaenidfe, certain of the cat-fish tribe (Siluridee), the weavers, and others, inflict wounds comparable to those of a poisoned arrow, the spines being coated with a peculiarly irritating mucus derived from the surface of the skin. Others, amongst which may be men- tioned the Synancece verrucosa and horrida and the Thalassophryna, possess definite poison sacs at the base of deeply grooved spines. The venom is injected by pressure, and, if in sufficient quantity, may produce very dangerous general poisoning effects, or even death. Speaking generally, jagged, irregular wounds result which are often intensely painful and are almost invariably followed by considerable swelling, lymphangitis, cellulitis, or gangrene. All the possibilities of general septic absorption are also present. The direct effect depends entirely upon the nature and quantity of the poisonous material injected ; in severe cases delirium, convulsions, and death may follow. Treatment, both local and general, must be conducted on the usual principles for poisoned wounds. Whenever possible a ligature