LYMPHANGIOMA 413 attacked. Kecently the treatment of superficial njevi with solid carbon dioxide has been tried with very encouraging results. The small spider nsevus of the face is best destroyed by electrolysis, the needle being introduced into the small central spot. Lewis Jones recommends for this pm'pose the use of a zinc needle connected with the positive electrode. Until recently all attempts to deal with the disfigurement caused by the large " port-wine stains " on the face were most disappointing; At the present day, however, very encouraging results have followed the use of high-frequency currents for this condition. X-rays and radium have also been employed, but are attended with the risk of subsecjuent pigmentation or the development of dilated vessels. N;evi involving both skin and subcutaneous tissvie may be treated by excision, electrolysis, or the galvano-cautery. The excision of cavernous angiomas may be safely j)6rformed, provided th;it the incisions be kept outside the capsule of the tumour. The vessels then divided are not numerous and are small in size, whereas if the incision accidentally wounds the cavernous tissue the ha?morrhage may be alarming. A plexiform angioma may sometimes be dealt with by excision. When, however, the condition involves a large area, such as the temporal region, ligature of the supplying vessels at the periphery of the tumour has seemed to yield the best results. LYMPHANGIOMA Lymphangioma, or lymphatic nsevus, occurs in two forms, the capillary and the cavernous, which differ only from the corresponding varieties of hsemangioma in the nature of the contents of the vessels or spaces. Three distinct conditions may result from the presence of a lymphangioma : (1) Vesicles on a cutaneous or mucous surface ; (2) a multilocular cystic tumour or cystic hygroma ; (.3) a localized enlargement of the affected part such as the tongue or lip. In some instances it may be difficult to decide whether a given lymphatic dilatation is to be regarded as a true lymphangioma, or as the result of a lymphatic obstruction. Thus, in some forms of obstruction, dilated lymphatic vessels or lymj^hangiectases may result; and again, certain forms of local hypertrophy or elephantiasis are the result of a chronic lymphatic obstruction and not of a true lymphangiomatous growth. Simple capillary lymphangiomas of the skin and mucous membranes are very rare. In the conjunctiva small tumours of this nature are sometimes present in the form of rows of minute clear vesicles hke tiny pearls. In the skin a similar condition has been described in