357 LIPOMA again, it must be remembered that the destruction of the tumour substance by the ulcerating and necrotic processes may, to a large extent, obscure the evidence that an actual tumour exists. In an obscure case valuable information may sometimes be obtained by microscopic examination of the discharges from an ulcer, and thus, for instance, an actinomycotic granuloma may be distinguished from an ulcerated tumour. Evidence obtained from the microscopic ex- amination of a fragment removed from the floor of an ulcer may be invaluable, but requires to be considered with much caution. BENIGN TUMOURS LIPOMA A lipoma may be taken as the most simple example of an inno- cent growth, because, however long its duration and however large its size, it almost always retains its simple structure unchanged. The most typical lipoma, that met with in the subcutaneous tissue, may conveniently be first described. Structure. —A lipoma consists of fat, which usually differs slightly in appearance from the normal fat of the part in which it lies. It is often rather pale in colour, and is composed of larger or smaller lobules which are held together by connective tissue. These give the tumour a very irregular outHne (Fig. 40). Surroimding the tumour is a w^ell-marked fibrous cap- sule, firmly connected with the sur- rounding tissues, but very loosely con- nected with the tumour itself. In addition, a very delicate capsule, which forms the surface of the tumour, is continuous with the areolar tissue holding together the lobules of fat. The histological structure of a lipoma is that of normal adipose tissue. Clinical features.—A subcutaneous, fatty tumour may occur in almost any part of the surface of the body, but the favourite situations are the shoulder and back (Fig. 41). The tumour forms a soft, cir- cumscribed, lobulated swelling, and may have almost any extremes of size. It moves freely on the deep fascia and the overlying skin is usually normal. By careful pressure on the margin of the tumour, Fig. 4(1.—Lipoma of subcuta- neous tissue, showing marked lobulation.