613 LEUCOCYTOSIS cocytosis an operation is performed without delay, even though the abdominal signs are very slight. If the leucocyte number is high, but stationary, when the patient is first seen, one can wait; but if rising even slightly, there should be no delay. It should always l)e remembered that a normal count is of little importance, some of the most severe and fatal cases showing no increase in leucocytes. A count of 12,000 to 15,000 indicates an active inflammatory process, and one of 20,000 or more probably means defi- nite abscess-formation with absorption of toxic products. Typhoid fever.—A count at regular and short intervals is of great importance, especially in a case where the possibility of perforation is being considered. Normally the leucocytes are not increased in this disease, and an increase always means the onset of some complication. The exact nature of this complication cannot be determined from the leucocyte count alone, but the knowledge of this blood alteration puts the surgeon on his guard. If the abdo- minal symptoms indicate perforation, the surgeon will operate, irrespec- tively of any leucocyte count ; but with a rising leucocyte count and with very slight local signs an operation would also be justifiable. Emerson claims that in the Johns Hopkins Hospital 30 per cent, of the cases of perforation have been saved by adopting this method of operation on the evidence of a rising leucocyte count, always, of course, in comltination with other diagnostic methods. Malignant disease.—In about 60 per cent, of cases there is a moderate leucocytosis, which seems, however, to depend partly on the site of the tumour, the eiiect it has upon the nutrition of the patient, and the amount of hsemorrhage and necrosis that is present. Little value, however, can be given to leucocytosis as a diagnostic aid. It bears no relation to the kind of tumour, though it is more common with sarcomas than with cancers, and it bears little upon the situation of a tumour. In malignant stricture of the oesophagus there is generally a leucopenia, but this is the leucopenia of starvation ; in cancer of the stomach a leucopenia is of frequent occurrence, though a leucocytosis is more common. It is said that the leucocytosis is gener- ally high in cancers of the tliyroid, pancreas, and kidney. Tuberculosis and syphilis show the same variation in regard to leucocytosis in different cases, and, in consequence, too much importance must not be attributed to this feature in diagnosis. In uncomplicated cases of tuberculosis no leucocytosis may be present, whereas in others a lymphocytosis may be quite marked. In some cases of pure tuberculous meningitis, in its early stage, a polymorpho- nuclear leucocytosis is found. In certain cases of pulmonary tuber- culosis with cavity formation an eosinophilia has been described, and has been regarded as a sign of auto-intoxication from the cavity, since