SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY of agar or blood-serum the culture exhibits a scarcely visible film of tiny discrete and translucent colonies like minute dewdrops. Milk is usually coagulated. On potato visible growth does not occur. Blood-agar is the most convenient medium for continued culture, especially if the virulence is to be maintained. The addition of from ^ to 1 per cent, of glucose to the ordinary media causes a very rapid and abundant growth of the pneumococcus, which, however, very quickly dies out under these conditions unless transplanted daily. On all media the organism dies out in a few days if not trans- planted, and it soon loses virulence, except in blood-agar cultures, unless it is frequently passed through the body of a susceptible animal. It is killed by heating for ten minutes at 52° C. in a fluid medium, and by 1-20,000 corrosive sublimate solution within two hours. The organism has a remarkably powerfid hasmolytic action on red corpuscles, and produces toxic bodies of an unknown character. It is extremely pathogenetic for the rabbit and the mouse, but very slightly so for guinea-pigs and rats. Pigeons and other fowl are quite immune. In the susceptible animals there is usually comjiaratively little local reaction, since a condition of septicaemia is rapidly produced, and the animal dies in the course of one or two days. Post-mortem, the spleen is very large and hard, and the blood contains large numbers of the micro-organisms. If an attenuated culture be employed, and death be delayed, there may be a development of marked local in- flammation with abscess-formation or a phlegmonous condition, and an extensive fibrinous exudation. In man the organism is frequently present in the healthy mouth and pharynx. LTnder suitable conditions it may gain entrance in the lung and there produce lobar pneumonia. It can usually also be isolated from the secondary complications of this condition, such as empyema, pericarditis, endocarditis, and meningitis. It is a not infrequent cause of acute peritonitis, but the patients usually recover if operated on early, in marked contrast with cases of peritonitis caused by streptococci. This fact enhances the importance of an accurate bacteriological diagnosis. The infection often reaches the peritoneum from the vermiform appendix, but in a number of cases spreads to it through the diaphragm from the pleural cavity. Antipneumococcic serums have been prepared by several investi- gators, but they are unfortunately at present still of very doubtful therapeutic value. Diplococcus intracellularis meningitidis (meningo- coccus).—This organism (Plate 4, Fig. 2) was first described by Weichselbaum from a number of oases of epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis, and is now generally admitted to be the cause of that