654 GENERAL ANESTHESIA of tlie eye, just touching the cornea; (3) stertorous breathing, recognized by the sound made in respiration if the jjatient's chin is depressed or allowed to drop. In the case of very robust subjects, or those in whom an operation is to be performed on a particularly sensitive part of the body or within the abdomen, anaesthesia should be carried slightly farther than this before the surgeon commences. That is to say, the corneal reflex should be quite abolished. The pupil, after being enlarged in the early stages of induction, is, when proper surgical ansesthesia is reached, about half-way between full dilatation and extreme contraction in size, and reacts to light. It is slightly larger in ether than in chloroform anajsthesia, where safety is best preserved by keeping the pupil small. The size of the pupil, however, as an indication of the depth of anses- thesia is not trustworthy during the early stages of an operation. Peripheral impressions cause variations in the pupil. In all cases the ansesthetist should be guided mainly by the respirations. Every breath should be either heard or felt; for, whilst breathing is regular and at least as vigorous as that of normal sleep, trouble due to the anaesthetic need not be feared. At the same time a close watch should be kept upon the colour, as estimated by observation of the lobe of the ear. The pulse should be felt from time to time, and the condi- tion of the corneal reflex ascertained every few minutes, to corroborate the information gained by watching the breathing and the colour. In the case of operations under ether, chloroform, and similar anaesthetics, it is important to realize that, when once anaesthesia is induced, comparatively small amounts of anaesthetic are required to maintain it. Thus in long operations a constantly diminishing amount of the drug is applied, so that in the case of chloroform, for instance, a vapour as weak as i per cent, constantly supplied often sufiEices to maintain anaesthesia during the greater part of the operation. SELECTION OF THE ANESTHETIC When a general ana?stlietic is required, the first consideration is the choice of the most suitable drug to employ in the particular case. We will therefore first consider the selection of the anaesthetic. Here we are at once confronted with the difficulty of laying down rules eqiially applicable to the expert and to the inexpert. In the case of the inexpert administrator the wisest plan is undoubtedly to select for all cases the same routine anaesthetic, as fax as this is possible, so that in the administration of that one, at any rate, the practitioner may become experienced. For this purpose we require (1) an anaes- thetic of wide applicability, (2) one the administration of which can be conducted with simple and portable apparatus, (3) one that is not