490 TUMOURS and tlie disease, although widely disseminated, may remain limited to them; but in some cases metastases are so widely distributed in the bones, skin, and elsewhere as to cause a veritable lympho- sarcomatosis. 2. Fibro-sarcoma.—Examined microscopically, a fibro-sarcoma is most commonly of the spindle-celled variety, the fasciculi of spindles being separated by a more or less considerable amount of ordinary fibrous tissue. Less commonly, the cell elements are of roimded or mixed shapes, and the masses of cells are irregularly distributed in the fibrous stroma. The fibrous tissue may be relatively so abundant that the naked-eye characters of the tumour are indistinguishable from those of a fibroma, and even by histological examination it may be impossible to draw a clear distinction between a fibro-sarcoma and a soft, imusually cellular fibroma. This is of much clinical importance, and it not infrequently happens that a tumour regarded in the first instance as a fibroma shows by its recurrence, especially locally, that it is decidedly malignant. 3. Myxo-sarcoma.—sarcoma in which a considerable admix- ture of myxomatous tissue is present. The sarcoma cells are usually of the small, roimd variety, and are arranged in masses separated by areas in which the branching cells of the myxomatous tissue are recog- nizable. The tumour is very soft, and presents to the naked eye an appearance closely resembling that of a pure myxoma, or pale semi- translucent areas may be visible in the more opaque sarcomatous tissue. Myxomatous tissue is often present in a chondro-sarcoma. 4. Chondro-sarcoma.—In this variety the cartilage may be present only in the form of small islands in a tumour which is other- wise purely cellular, or it may so preponderate that the tumour has the macroscopic characters of a simple enchondroma. In the latter case a careful microscopic examination will serve to indicate the true nature of the growth, for, whereas in a simple cartilaginous tumour the lobules of cartilage are held together by strands of connective tissue, in the chondro-sarcoma the tissue intervening between the cartilage lobules presents the cellular characters and vascular arrange- ment characteristic of a sarcoma, and the two tissues may pass gradually one into the other (Fig. 117). -5. Osteo-sarcoma.—The variations in the amount of ossifica- tion present in this form of sarcoma are comparable with the varying degrees of chondrification in a chondro-sarcoma. Thus, in some tumours the presence of bone is only discovered on microscopic examination, or perhaps by the detection of fine gritty spots with the point of a scalpel, whereas in other tumours it is so extensive that the tumour partakes of the naked-eye characters of a simple osteoma. The bony trabeculse often present evidences of irregular deposition