314 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES If direct transfusion of blood be not used, fluid may be given in various ways :— 1. By the mouth.—After an operation, if the patient is conscious and there are no contra-indications, such as bleeding from the stomach or vomiting, fluid (milk, water, albumin-water, etc.) should be given fieely by the mouth. The patient should be encouraged to take large quantities of hot liquids, which will be rapidly absorbed from the gastro-intestinal tract and make good the deficiency of fluid in the vascular system. Thirst, which is one of the distressing symptoms after a large hfemorrliage, is relieved in this way, and no limit should be placed on the amount of fluid given to the patient. 2. By the rectum.-—If the giving of fluid by the mouth is contra- indicated for any reason, hot normal saline solution can be given by the rectum, as it is rapidly absorbed by the mucous membrane. Two or three pints should be run into the rectum by means of a funnel and tube very slowly so as not to act as an enema. It may also be given continuously for hours, about half a pint each hour. 3. Subcutaneously.—Normal saline fluid can also be injected into the subcutaneous tissue, and will be absorbed into the blood- and lymph- streams. In males the loose skin of the groin or axilla is the site chosen, and in females it can be injected under the breast, between it and the pectoral muscles. 4. Intravenously.—The injection of normal saline fluid directly into a vein is the most rapid method of supplying fluid to the vascular sys- tem, and therefore, as the indication in severe hfemorrhage is quickly to replace the fluid that has been lost, tliis method is to be preferred in such cases. The fluid used is a solution of sodium chloride (common salt) and water in the proportion of 1 drachm of salt to 1 pint of water, both the salt and the water being sterilized. Some surgeons add a small quantity of potassium chlorate to the salt and water in order to render it neutral, as acid or alkaline solutions may be dangerous; it has also been proposed to add from 3 per cent, to 5 per cent, of sugar so as to form a nutritive fluid and to favour osmosis from the tissues to the blood-vessels. Technique of intravenous infusion.—In cases of amputation, or where a large artery is cut across, infusion of saline fluid may be made directly into the vessel, but this has been found to have no advan- tage over intravenous infusion. The vein usually selected is the median basilic vein of the left arm, as it is generally large and con- stant in position. The surrounding skin is rendered as sterile as possible in the manner usually employed before an operation. A bandage is wrapped round the upper arm so as to retard the venous return and render the vein prominent. An oblique incision is made across the vein, which is quickly exposed in the subcutaneous tissue.