STAPHYLOCOCCUS PYOGENES AUREUS ^9 but it was Rosenbacli who, iu 1884, first clearly differentiated and named the various pyogenetic cocci commonly met with. Ogston had already demonstrated the close relationship of " cluster" cocci to wound- infection, to osteo-myelitis, and to localized suppurative conditions in general. The work of Becker, who obtained pure cultures, and the investigations of Rosenbacli afforded definite proof of the pathogenetic action of the staphylococci, and especially the Staphijlococcus pyogenes aureus. The micro-organism is a spherical or nearly spherical coccus with a diameter of about 0-7 yu, to 09 /a, but it may exhibit greater varia- tions in size under particular conditions of temperature, culture medium, etc. The cocci are commonly arranged irregularly in larger or smaller groups, but may appear chiefly in pairs. Moreover a micro- scopic film will frequently present numerous isolated individuals, short chains of three or four, and even tetrads. The staphylococci are non-flagellated and non-motile. The organism stains readily with aqueous solutions of most basic aniline dyes either in a wet preparation (cf. Technique, p. 38) or in a dried film. It is also stained by certain acid dyes, such as eosin, and fairly well by hfematoxylin. It is Gram-positive, as are all the staphylococci. It is aerobic, and a facultative anaerobe. It grows well on all ordinary media at the room temperature, but nmch more luxuriantly at the body temperature. Its optimum is about 30° C, and its range of growth from about 10° C. to about 40° C. The cultures show a rich golden-coloured pigmentation, but only form their pigment in the presence of free oxygen. In bouillon at 37° C. the organism rapidly produces a miiform turbidit}'. It occasionally forms a thin film upon the surface, and after a few days exhibits an abundant and somewhat slimy deposit at the foot of the tube. In a gelatin-stab, growth occurs along the whole length of the stab, but most rapidly near the surface, where peptonization of the medium commences in the course of a few days, and leads to the formation of a cone of liquefaction. At the apex of the cone is found a golden- coloured mass of deposited growth. On the surface of agar (at 37° C.) the growth apjjears as a moist and paint-like orange-coloured streak most deeply pigmented along the centre of the growth and paler at the edges. This is due to the fact that the development of colour increases as the culture becomes older, and is accordingly luost marked in the oldest part of the growth. On potato the organism grows well, and upon tliis jnedium the pigmentation is particularly well marked. E