TUMOURS 592 a fibrous wall lined with one or more layers of flattened epithelium, in which, however, no Malpighian layer or papillse can be recognized. The contents usually consist of a soft porridge-like material, but occasionally they are thin and milky, whilst in some cysts they form laminated layers almost horny in consistence. Examined micro- scopically, the contents show epithelial debris, fatty granules, and cholesterin crystals. Although it is certain that sebaceous cysts usually arise from distension of a sebaceous gland, it is probable that some may originate as outgrowths from the hair-follicles. A sebaceous cyst forms a globular tumour situated immediately beneath the skin. The consistence varies with the character of the contents ; it is usually doughy, and may pit on pressure, but it may be elastic or hard. Occasionally the orifice of the duct of the gland from which the cyst originated can be seen in the skin as a small depression or black spot, and at this point the skin is intimately con- nected with the cyst wall. Sometimes the sebaceous material can be squeezed from the orifice of the duct. Over a large cyst the skin often becomes thinned, and in the scalp bald as the result of atrophy of the hair-follicles. The diagnosis of a sebaceous cyst from a chronic abscess or soft lipoma is rarely attended with difficulty, and sub- cutaneous dermoids can usually be distinguished from sebaceous cysts by their limitation to certain situations, and often by the greater depth at which they lie. Cysts described as " congenital sebaceous cysts " are always dermoids, and the same is almost always true of the cysts in children which are described as sebaceous. Sebaceous cysts are liable to the following changes : Inflammation and suppuration are common, especially in small cysts on the cheek; the contents of the resulting abscess are often very offensive. Ulceration of the overlying skin may involve the superficial part of the cyst wall, thus widely opening up the interior. This has been observed chiefly in sebaceous cysts of the scalp, and may lead to a very peculiar appear- ance resulting from the formation of exuberant masses of gTanulation tissue from the deep part and edges of the interior of the cyst. The condition may thus closely simulate a malignant gTowth. Another change occasionally occurring in a sebaceous cyst is that which results in the formation of a sebaceous Jiorn. The contents of the cyst gradually escape from an orifice in the cyst wall and skin, and form a slowly increasing conical, horny mass, which may superficially have a close resemblance to the horny epidermic outgrowths that sometimes form on the surface of cutaneous papillomas (p. 448). Calcification of the cyst wall and its contents may occasionally convert a sebaceous cyst into a solid mass, sometimes wrongly described as bony. This change is most common in small cysts in the region of