i6o REPAIR The organization of the thrombus is brought about exactly in the same manner as the healing in an incised wound. After a few days there is an acute proliferation of the connective-tissue cells of the intima, and also, it may be, of the media ; young capillary loops are formed, and these can be traced to the vasa-vasorum, from which they un- doubtedly arise. Thus there is formed a cellular granulation tissue which brings about absorption of the blood-clot (Plate 23, Fig. 2), and which later becomes fibrous. The fibroblasts formed during the process are smaller, and possess more branches, than those seen in the ordinary conditions of wound-healing. In this granulation tissue there is usually formed a considerable amount of elastic tissue. If the thrombus is small, the healing may be so complete that the only evidence of it is a small fibrous scar. Where, however, it is in a large vessel the process of vascularization is usually incomplete, and its more central part tends to degenerate—to become fatty or even calcareous. REPAIR OF NERVOUS TISSUE In the brain and the spinal cord after injury there is a certain amount of proliferation of the various nerve cells and fibres, as evi- denced by mitosis ; but these reparative changes are very imperfect. The damaged tissue becomes softened and absorbed, and the filling- up of the defect is mainly brought about by a fibrous-tissue hyper- plasia. This fibrous-tissue overgrowth is not a marked feature, and the cells which bring it about are derived mainly from the connective- tissue framework of the brain. In experiments on animals this imperfect repair has been clearly demonstrated. Shortly after the womids are inflicted, well-marked mitoses and other evidences of proliferative growth are seen both in the nerve cells and in the connective-tissue framework ; but in about ten days the mitoses are not demonstrable, and there is distinct evidence of destruction of the nerve elements, with replacement of them by granulation tissue derived from the connective tissue around the vessels. Partial fmictional restoration has been recorded in a few cases of complete transverse lesion of the spinal cord after prompt union of th<: separated ends by suture. Though, therefore, it must be admitted that restoration of nerve fibres may take place, still in the vast pro- portion of cases this new formation is very imperfect and does not usually supply any functional loss. If the wound in the brain becomes infected, a hernia cerebri is formed, composed of granulation tissue containing necrotic nerve-cells and fibres. In peripheral nerves, however, the reparative processes are