559 CARCINOMA OF THE PENIS inner surface of the prej^iice, and in structure resemljles cancer arising in other parts of tlie cutaneous surface. It very rarely begins on the body of the penis, and is of extreme rarity in the penile urethra. The relation of the disease to phimosis is well established, and is explained ]jy the changes which supervene in this condition as the result of want of cleanliness and the retention of secretions beneath the tight prepuce. The changes in question so closely resemble those that occur in the surface of the tongue in the condition commonly known as leucoplakia that they need not be described in detail. Thickened whitish areas on the glans, warty patches, and a leathery thickening of the prepuce with fissuring of the orifice are the most important. The disease, as in other situations, is met with in two forms, the warty and the ulcerating. The importance of recognizing these is great, for whilst the former may be mistaken for the simple papillo- matous growths wliich are common on the penis, the latter may in its early stages closely resemble the primary syphilitic sore. As the disease extends, the extremity of the penis may become converted into an irregular warty mass, or may be extensively destroyed by the ulceration of the growth. When, as is often the case, the growth is hidden within the tight prepuce, the hardness of the part and the presence of a purulent discharge from the preputial orifice will generally indicate the true nature of the disease. In such a case the prepuce, usually on its dorsal surface, may sometimes become perforated by ulceration, and the diseased glans, protruding through the opening, may cause a very misleading appearance. The chief paths by which carcinoma of the penis involves the lymphatic glands have been studied by Poirier, Kiittner, and others. The glands most likely to be involved are the superficial inguinal group, especiallj^ the supero-internal set. It is, however, possible for the disease to reach the glands within the pelvis directly by way of the lymphatics passing through the inguinal and crural canals. Kiittner has recorded two cases of cancer of the penis occurring in Bruns's. clinic which illustrate an intrapelvic extension of the disease. In one of these, after amputation of the penis and removal of the glands of the left inguinal region, there was recurrence in front of the bladder. In the second case, two years after amputation of the penis the patient returned with oedema of the right leg caused by a mass of enlarged glands in the pelvis ; the inguinal glands were not involved until six months latei'. Except in very early cases of carcinoma of the prepuce, which may be treated by circumcision, the penis should be amputated well behind the disease. On account of the connexion between the lymphatics of the two sides of the organ, the superficial inguinal glands should in all cases be removed from both groins.