ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 75° cerebro-spinal syphilis make wonderful recoveries under the injection of calomel. My plan is to give gr. |- of calomel by intramuscular injection twice a week for four weeks, then to suspend the treatment for a period of two weeks, and then repeat the course, at the same time being guided by the symptoms, etc., as to continuing it further. During the intervals iodide of potassium ought to be given in not smaller doses than gr. xv three times a day and for not longer than ten days at a time, the dose being gradually increased to gr. xxx three times a day. PARASYPHILIS OR QUATERNARY SYPHILIS Many years, it may be, after the primary sore, and after any active manifestations, certain diseases may follow, not directly syphi- litic, but dependent in some way upon its poison, and hence termed parasyphilitic affections, the chief of which are locomotor ataxia, general paralysis, and epilepsy. Of these Fournier and Mott main- tain that tabes and general paralysis are pathogenetically identical, and only different aspects of the same disease. Both are caused by syphilis and appear about the same time after infection ; the Argyll-Robertson pupil and lymphocytosis of the cerebro-spinal fluid are common to both. These authorities also hold that the primary lesion in both tabes and general paralysis is the same, being a dys- trophy of the neurons, the sclerosis and thickening of the membranes being a secondary result of degeneration.'^ GENERAL TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS Until quite recently mercury was recognized as the only specific for sypliilis, but now there is reason to believe that in derivatives of arsenic we are in possession of a second ; indeed, this is certain as far as concerns their power of preventing the occurrence of syphilitic symptoms and of causing their disappearance ; but whether they are capable of effecting an eventual permanent cure remains an open question which can only be finally determined by time and further experience. To this subject I shall return later in the present article, and it will also be considered by other writers in the one which follows. Abortive treatment.—Many attempts have been made by cauterization and excision of the primary lesion to prevent consti- tutional infection, but they have invariably failed. Metchnikoff has endeavoured to destroy the Spirochcete pallida in situ by the applica- tion of a 30 per cent, calomel ointment, with a certain amount of 1 I have dealt in detail with the subject of parasyphilis, and also with the history of syphilis, in my Manual (Bailliere, Tindall, & Cox).