232 GANGRENE often 103° F. or higher at the commencement, soon becomes sub- normal. The mental condition varies from apathetic consciousness to active delirium, which merges into somnolence as the gangrene spreads. In severe cases death takes place within thirty hours from the commencement. Treatment.—Prophylactic treatment consists in rendering a wound that is contaminated with earth, dung, or bits of clothing as nearly aseptic as circumstances will permit, by syringing it out with normal saline or peroxide of hydrogen, by shaving and thoroughly washing the surrounding skin, and by excising its edges and portions of the damaged tissue. A dressing of sterilized gauze, frequently moistened with hydrogen peroxide, is then applied and the part care- fully watched. At the first sign of gas-crepitation, the only chance of saving the patient's life is by immediate amputation far above the gangrenous part. In both the operative and the after-treatment, special attention should be paid to the following details advocated by Sargent: (1) Hsemorrhage should be controlled by digital compression in order to avoid damage to healthy tissues by the tourniquet, a damage which must lower their resistance to possible infection. (2) The flaps should be left unsutured and turned back with their raw surface outwards, thus avoiding the possibility of shutting up organisms in the tissues, in circumstances in which, as a matter of clinical experi- ence, they are able to work at a greater advantage. (3) The stump should be dressed with gauze kept constantly wet for twelve hours or more with a 10-volume solution of peroxide of hydrogen, for the solution, by liberating oxygen, creates an atmosphere that is most inimical to the growth of anaerobic bacilli. (4) After three or four days, when healing commences, the flaps may be turned down, loosely sutured, and dressed with dry cyanide gauze. 3. Cancrum oris and noma vulvae are tlie names given to a destructive, and often fatal, form of gangrene which attacks the mouth, cheek, lips, or the vulva of debilitated and ill-nourished children between the ages of 2 and 6 years, either at the close of some exhausting illness or during convalescence from one of the specific fevers, especially measles, scarlet, and typhoid (Fig. 10). Owing to improvement in hygiene, and the care which is now generally given to children's teeth, the disease is gradually but surely becoming a rare one. Its pathology has not been accurately determined, inasmuch as no specific micro-organism has been isolated, but, though the presence of myriads of bacteria within the oral cavity renders the problem somewhat difficult, pathologists are now inclined to regard the Strepto- coccus pyogenes as the causative agent. In all probability the organism, whatever its nature may be, does not become pathogenetic until a certain degree of tissue necrosis has been reached, for though numbers