820 GONORRHCEA the bladder, so as to clear the urethra of pus, the end of the glass cannula is inserted into the meatus and the irrigator raised a foot or two. The pressure of the fluid is sufficient to distend the anterior urethra, but not to overcome the compressor muscle. The cannula is then removed, and the fluid allowed to escape from the urethra. After this has been repeated two or three times with a view to the thorough washing out of the anterior urethra, the cannula is reinserted, and the irrigation raised until the pressure of the fluid is sufficient to overcome the compressor muscle; the lotion then enters the posterior urethra and passes on to the bladder. As a rule, the irrigator must be raised from 1^ to 2 yards before the resistance of the compressor muscle is overcome. The irrigation is best done with the patient lying on his back with the legs apart. As the irrigator is being raised, the patient should be instructed to relax the urethral muscles by trying to micturate. It is by no means always easy to inject into the posterior urethra by this means, the distension of the urethra sometimes causing severe pain. Where this is the case, it is well to give a small preliminary injection of a weak novocain solution (2 per cent.) a few minutes before irrigating. The principal advantages derived from this method are that the pressure of the fluid, by stretching the urethral mucous membrane and obliterating its folds, ensures the lotion coming into contact with its entire surface. Abundant experience has demonstrated that the fear of infecting the bladder by these methods of irrigation is groundless. The fluid injected into the bladder does not require to be removed by the surgeon ; it is passed naturally at the close of the procedure. It is best to select at first very weak solutions of mild remedies, such as protargol (J to 1 per cent.), or sulphate of thallin (1 per cent.), and after a few days to pass on to stronger and more astringent solutions, such as permanganate of potash (1—10,000 to 1-2,000), albargin (1-5,000 to 1-1,000), or nitrate of silver (1-10,000 to 1-500). As a rule, the nitrate of silver solutions are the most efficacious. The irrigation is performed by the surgeon every two or three days, the patient continuing his injections with the small syringe twice each day. Simple posterior urethritis, unless complicated by an infection of the prostate, generally responds readily to treatment, and usually clears up before the inflammation in the anterior part. When, there- fore, the surgeon finds that the second portion of the morning urine is constantly clear, he should stop the special treatment of the posterior urethra and devote his whole attention to the anterior urethra.