164 REPAIR wounds, larger wounds giving rise to rapidly fatal hsemorrhage. There appears to be no evidence, either experimentally or in cases observed in the human subject, that new splenic tissue is formed. The blood- clot which fills up the ga]) in the organ becomes organized. The granu- lation tissue which is formed becomes fibrous, contracts, and a con- nective-tissue scar is produced. Kidney.-—Wounds in the kidney heal by granulation. A clot of blood is formed between the cut surfaces, and into this leucocytes and other cells pass. New vessels are formed from the pre-existing ve&'sels, and thus a layer of granulation tissue forms and unites the two cut surfaces. A fibrous-tissue scar is the final result of the heal- ing process. Fibrous glomeruli can usually be seen in this scar, the fibrous tissue having invaded the kidney tissue lying adjacent to the wound. Apparently a certain amount of regeneration of the collecting tubules can take place, but the secreting tubules seem incapable of re-formation. There is generally necrosis of the cells of the tubes of this type, which are lying close to the wound, while those farther removed may show atrophic changes, the epithelium having undergone regressive changes with the production of a low, flat epithelium. Repair after decapsulation.—Decapsulation as a method of treatment for chronic nephritis has been strongly recommended by various surgeons. Edebohls holds that a new capsule is formed, and that during its formation new vessels pass into, the substance of the kidney and thus increase its blood supply. It is possible that in the early stage of the formation of this new capsule there may be an increased vascular supply to the superficial parts of the kidney ; but later these vessels contract or become obliterated by fibrous-tissue overgrowth, and the new fibrous tissue extends into the kidney. From a pathological study of the condition there seems to me no doubt that repair takes place after decapsulation, but that the subsequent cica- tricial tissue which is of necessity formed renders the procedure of no permanent value. REPAIR OF THE UTERUS AND FALLOPIAN TUBES Wounds of the muscular wall of the uterus and of the Fallopian tubes heal by the formation at first of granulation tissue, but at a later period there is certainly regeneration of muscle fibres, and in small wounds it may be impossible in a few months to detect any evidence of a scar. In larger wounds, however, the fibrous-tissue scar is always evident. The mucous membrane, after curetting, regenerates completely, the connective tissue and vessels being formed rapidly as granulation tissue, the glandular part being reproduced from remnants of the