586 TUMOURS Teratoma of the testicle—In the testicle, as in the ovary, two forms of teratoma occur, the dermoid, and the soUd tumour of composite structure, in which cysts are almost invariably recognizable even with the naked eye ; but whereas in the ovary the dermoid is much more common than the solid form, in the testicle the reverse is the case and dermoids are extremely rare. On accoimt of the com- plex structure of the solid teratomas they have received many different names, such as cystic disease of the testicle, adenoma testis, chondro- sarcoma, and columnar carcinoma. A consideration of the structure of these tumours readily explains how such a complicated nomen- clature has arisen, and it is better to include them all under the general name " teratoma " rather than to name each specimen according to its naked-eye or histological features. The solid teratoma or embryoma presents itself clinically, usually in young adults, as a tumour causing an apparently uniform en- largement of the testicle, or, if the cystic formation is marked, the tumour may be lobulated and in parts elastic. Dissection shows that the tumour is contained within the tunica albuginea, and between the two it is sometimes possible to demonstrate the testicular substance spread out in a thin layer, whilst the epididymis can sometimes be recognized behind the tumour. The tumour itself presents on section differences dependent chiefly on the extent of the cystic formation. Sometimes it is a soft solid growth in which minute cysts are visible ; sometimes it has the appearance of a coarse sponge-work ; or a few large cysts may be associated with a varying amount of solid sub- stance. In the latter, gelatinous areas are sometimes visible, and cartilage may be present in the form of white or greyish nodules. Occasionally the cysts contain intracystic growths. Among the elements most easily demonstrated microscopically in these mixed tumours are the connective-tissue stroma, which varies widely in its character and often contains cartilage, and spaces lined with cubical or columnar epithelium. Other elements can, however, always be found, and Nicholson, who has recorded the results of his examination of sixteen specimens, most of which are in the Museum of Guy's Hospital, has been able to show that derivatives of all the three layers of the blastoderm are present. The epiblast is repre- sented by tubules lined with stratified epithelium and epithelial pearls ; the mesoblast by the connective tissue, often with cartilage, some- times with muscle or even bone ; and the hypoblast by the columnar or cubical epithelium, which is often arranged in the shape of villi and surrounded by unstriped muscle (Fig. 163). The origin of these tumours has been the source of much discussion and must be regarded as still uncertain. After reviewing the various theories, Nicholson concludes that the most probable explanation is that first suggested