20 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY are still capable of forming toxins. It must, however, be remembered that the bacteria themselves build up proteins from the food material supplied to them, and traces of protein actually make their appearance in these fluids along with the toxins. The toxins formed by the bacteria may either diffuse into the surrounding medium, or may remain within the cell, and only pass out into the medium on the disintegration of the cell itself. This observation has led to an attempt to classify bacterial toxins as either " intracellular" or " extracellular." But the further knowledge advances the more difficult it becomes to uphold this distinction between the so-called " endotoxins " and the " exo- toxins," since it seems probable that in every case the actual formation of the specific poison is an intracellular process. Among the toxins formed by pathogenetic bacteria, some are definitely specific, and exhibit a well-marked and characteristic action in the living body. Thus, tetanus toxin has a selective action on the central nervous system, producing irritation and tetanic muscular spasms, while the toxin of diphtheria attacks peripheral nerves and leads to paralysis. Other toxins lead to more general results, disorder of metabolism, fever, and degeneration in parenchymatous organs, without producing such defined effects as would distinguish clearly the particular infection. Bacterial toxins are remarkable for their extreme potency in quan- tities minute as compared with active doses of the strongest known alkaloids. Thus, tetanus toxin may be prepared in a form several hundred times as powerful in its action as strychnine. Besides their proper toxins, pathogenetic bacteria produce in dead and decomposing animal matter poisonous bodies similar to the toxic substances pro- duced by various saprophytes. The substances in question are called ptomaines, and are frequently of practical importance in that they may give lise to the severest symptoms of intoxication. They are distinguished from true toxins by their greater heat-resisting power, and they appear to be most nearly allied in constitution to the vege- table alkaloids. The general effects and mode of action of the bac- terial toxins are dealt with further in the discussion of Pathogenetic Action and Immunity, p. 2.5 et seq. vi. Motility.—The property of independent movement is enjoyed by many bacteria. These are chiefly found among the vibrios and the rod-shaped organisms ; indeed, it is doubtful whether any cocci possess motility, though the contrary has been maintained in certain cases (e.g. Micrococcus melitensis). The movement is in general one of progression, the organism advancing in a definite direction for a period. It may then be observed to turn off at an angle, or to stop and remain at rest, or to move back- wards in the reverse direction, or in other cases to turn round and