DIAGNOSIS AND PATHOLOGY OF TETANUS S83 The urine is generally scanty. Albuminuria and even liaematuria have been observed, and retention due to sphincter spasm frequently necessitates catheterization. Diagnosis.—When the disease is fully developed the diagnosis is easy, but at the onset, when for the purpose of antitoxin treatment a correct judgment is important, it may be difficult. When stiffness of the jaw, not due to dental trismus, is complained of, within three weeks of an injury involving a breach of surface, tetanus should be suspected and an injection of antitoxin given. If within the next twenty-four hours the rigidity has spread to the neck or elsewhere, the diagnosis is confirmed. Rigidity of the recti abdominis is an important early sign. There are but few conditions which need confuse the diagnosis. Simple tris»ms is commonly due to dental caries or to an impacted wisdom tooth, and the dental condition is evident in these cases. In cerebrospinal meningitis the jDoints of distinction are high tempera- ture, cephalalgia, vomiting, and optic neuritis, none of which symptoms is present in tetanus. Hysterical spasm, with trismus, is a source of error, but the neurotic element predominates. In strychnine poisoning the progress of the disease is more rapid, and convulsions alternate with quiet intervals. The presence of strychnine and its derivatives in the urine and the history of the case will clear up any further doubt. Hydrophobia happily now requires no consideration, since it is virtually non-existent in this country. Tetany is seen after total excision of the thyroid, and occasionally after gastric operations. Its spasms are induced by pressure on the main vessels and nerve- trunks, and flexor spasm is a prominent feature. Pathology and bacteriology.—The distinctive post-mortem appearances of a case of tetanu? are few and unimportant. The principal signs are indefinite patches of congestion and softening in the grey matter of the cord, medulla, and pons. The nerve trunks leading from the original area of infection may exhibit a marked nemitis. The muscular system shows evidence of its late violence in lacera- tions of its fibres and ecchymoses. The microscopical appearances are in accordance with these signs, and in addition the bacillus can in some cases be observed in the wound and peripheral nerves. Lockwood claims to have seen it also in the membranes of the cord and brain. The ganglionic cells show signs of degeneration. The bacillus of tetanus presents the characters described under Surgical Bacteriology (p. 6.3). During recent years much work has been done by Swiedeberg, Mayer, Ransom, Kitasato, Vaillard, and others, to discover the path by which the poison of tetanus reaches the central nervous system.