784 SALVARSAN IN TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS of the needle is outside the vein. The infusion apparatus which we use is showoi in Fig. 199. To use it the containers are suspended from a convenient stand which can be raised, and the rubber tubes between them and the glass Y-piece closed with a clip on each. Wfr no longer use the clip between the Y-piece and the needle shown in the illustration. Salt solution (0-85 per cent.) is poured into botk containers, and the tubes are emptied. of air by raising the needle end till most of the tubing is above the level of the containers, slowly lower- ing with clips open until the solu- tion flows through, and then closing: the clips. The chp on the tube leading from the salvarsan container (on the right) is then opened so as to allow the contained salt solution to escape till it stands about half an inch from the bottom of the con- tainer. The dose of salvarsan is poured through fine sterile muslin into the container on the right,, and the other is partly filled with salt solution. The needle is now applied to the tube, if this has not been previously done, and a little salt solution is allowed to flow so as to wash out the needle ; the flow is stopped, all slack tubing is coiled into water at about 120° F., the containers are lowered to a level shghtly above that of the patient^ and all is ready. The patient Hes on a couch or operating table with his arm com- fortably supported in a position convenient to the operator, and a rubber band is fastened round his upper arm so as to retard the venous return and make the veins stand out prominently. A vein at the bend of the elbow is selected, and the skin over it is sterihzed by painting with a solution of iodine in chloroform (1 in 15). The pimcture should be made quite deHberately, rather than with a sudden stab, and the needle kept almost parallel with the vein, pointing in the direction of the blood flow, and with its eye looking towards the operator. As soon as the vein is entered, blood will appear at the glass window Fig. 199.—Apparatus for intra- venous injection of salvarsan. {From the Journal of the R.A.M-C.)