EFFECTS PRODUCED BY TUBERCLE BACILLUS 711 methods, of which inhahition of tuberculous sputum and ingestion of tuberculous milk are the commonest. Direct transmission of the tubercle bacilli from the mother to the child by way of the placenta may take place. So-called " hereditary transmission '' I cannot regard as anything more than an inherited predisposition—a natural weakness which renders the infant more liable to attack. The extension of local tuberculosis In the body may take place in several ways. There may be a direct infiltration of the surrounding tissues, as is seen in superficial tuberculous infections of the skin ; passage to various parts by way of the lymphatics, even in a direction opposite to that of the lymph-stream ; extension along air or other natural passages; and direct transmission by the blood- stream. Thus tuberculosis of the air-passages is often found in asso- ciation with tuberculous disease of the lungs, the former being caused by the infected sputum lying constantly in contact with their mucous membranes. The spread along natural passages is very well illustrated in cases of genito-urinary tuberculosis, where the disease, starting in the testicle, may extend along the whole length of the vas deferens to tlie vesiculte seminales and the urinary bladder, or even up the ureters to the kidney. Tuberculosis of the pleura, pericardium, or peritoneum nuiy become widespread in these membranes, merely by the bacilli coming in direct ■contact with them ; or the condition may be more localized in the membranes, and the neighbouring lymphatic glands may become specially involved l)y the passage of the bacilli along the lympliatic channels. Spread by the blood-stream is less common, and is generally due to ulceration of a tuberculous focus into an artery or a vein. Effects produced by the introduction of B. tuber- culosis or material containing it into susceptible animals.—Into wliatever tissue the bacilli are introduced, the result- ing changes are practically identical, and therefore a study of the condition in one tissue—e.g. the peritoneum—will be sufficient to illus- trate tlie microscopical characters of a tuberculous lesion. After the introduction of the bacilli there is a preliminary poly- morplionuclear leucocytosis, which in about two days is followed by a great increase in tlie mononucleated cells. These cells are the main formed constituent of the exudate after the fourth or fifth day. They ingest large numbers of the bacilli, and persist till tlie death of the animal. Examination of the omentum shows the bacilli lodged at various points ; and at these foci, even in twenty-four hours, mitosis and proliferation of the fixed connective-tissue and endo- thelial cells are seen. The proliferation increases, and in from