139 CONSTITUTIONAL SIGNS cultures. It is, liowcxrr, umlnulili'il that f('l)rik; syin])toms iu:iv follow aseptic iiillanuiiaton' processes sucli a-; result fi'oin frac- tures or subcutaneous extravasations of In this cases the probable cause is tiie presence in the circulation of fibrin ferment set free at the site of injury. Tluit filjriii ferment is capal)le of pro- ducinp; fever lias Ijeen shown cxpei-imciitallv iu animals, anil in these the phenomena which fnllow ha\e been fnund to correspond chjselv witii those observed alter the injecthui III tiixins. The most prominent and most constant of the constitutional sie;ns of iiillammation is a I'aised temperature, slight and transient in cases where tlie local process is aseptic, more marked and more lasting where a bacterial im'asion has taken ])lace. With this the pulse rises and i^ full and bnnndiiiL; : the respirations also become increased in Irei|uene\'. The jiatient complains of headache, loss of a])petiti', and thirst: the si<in is hot and dry, the tongue white and coated, the breath foul, and constipation is present, the motions when l)assed being unduly olYensive. . The urine is of high specific gravity, containing an excess of uric acid and urates, and in many cases albumin mav be detected. If the inflammation continue, the general strength nf the patient is seriously tried; he becomes exhausted and emaciated. Tiie complexion grows sallow, and a varying degree of ana'inia resnlts. Deliiiuin may ensue, and iiia\- nshi'i' in a, fatal termination. While such are the characteristic phenomena to be observed, it may l)e pointed out tiiat two types of fever may be recognized—the sthenic and tlie asthenic. In the former the signs ai"e those enu- merated, and the term sthenic " may fairl\' lie employed when they are well marked. At times, however, owing to a jnirticularly virulent form of infection, or consei|uent \ipon a prolonged duration of the iiiflammatory process, or, in other cases, as a result of an enfeebled ami ])oorly resisting constitution, the signs are modified. The emacia- tion ami exhaustion are more marked ; the pulse-rate is very higii, but the pulse becomes feeble and easilv compressible ; the temperature is higher. .Vna^mia is marked, the tongm^ is brown aiul dry, the teeth are covered with sordes, and a low muttering delirium ensues, to be contrasted with the restless or raving delirium of the sthenic type. Owing to the occurrence of this type of fever in the later stages of typhoid, it is often spoken of as " the tyj)hoid state."" 'The constitutional signs of inflammation having been thus reviewed, the causes of these .signs will now be considered. The regulation of the temperature is dependent upon a heat-regulating centre in the medulla, which maintains an eciuililn'ium lietween the heat produced by tissue metabolism in. more especiallv. the voluntary muscles and great viscera, and that lost from the skin by radiation and perspiration, aiul