6oi HYDATID CYSTS years. If the parasite dies the cyst ceases to enlarge, and subsequently shrinks. The fluid disappears, and a convoluted gelatinous mass remains, the wall of which may be extensively calcified. Rupture of a hydatid cyst may occur into one of the hollow viscera, the heart or large blood-vessels, a serous cavity, or externally. Suppuration is not uncommon, and the true origin of the abscess may only be determined by the detection of booklets or fragments of the ectocyst in the pus. The geographical distribution of hydatid disease is largely dependent upon the extent to which infested dogs come into relation with the inhabitants ; thus, wliilst it is imcommon in Europe and very rare in America, it is common in Australia, Iceland, and other parts. A study of the anatomical distribution of the disease shows that the liver is affected in more than one-half of the cases ; thus, among 420 cases treated consecutively in the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital in Sydney, McLaurin found that the liver was affected in 267, or 63"4 per cent. Among the other parts which may be affected are the alimentary canal, lungs and pleurae, kidneys, female genital organs, Ijrain, muscles, bone, and the heart and blood-vessels. The clinical features of a hydatid cyst necessarily differ widely according to its situation. Thus, in the liver the cyst may form a prominence in the epigastric region, and may project upwards so as to displace the heart and produce physical signs resembling those of pleural effusion. When a hydatid cyst is sufficiently superficial, distinct fluctuation may be felt in it, and sometimes a peculiar vibratory sensation—the so-called hydatid fremitus—is felt when the tumour is jjalpated with the fingers of one hand whilst another part of the tumour is sharply tapped with the fingers of the other hand. In other regions of the abdomen a hydatid cyst may simulate many other conditions, such as a hydronephrosis or a cyst of the ovary. In the consideration of an obscure case in which multiple abdominal tumours are present, the possibility that they may be hydatid cysts should always be remembered. In the lung the symptoms and physical signs of this disease vary greatly. Hoemoptysis and cough are common, whilst displacement of the heart and the presence of " a rounded area of dullness on percus- sion, the note obtained being absolutely dull in the centre of the area and gradually increasing in resonance towards its margin, the breath sounds and vocal resonance over the same site being absent(Fowler and Godlee), are valuable signs. Hydatid cysts causing tumours in peripheral parts such as the bones and muscles are very apt to be mistaken for other diseases, especially in countries in which hydatid disease is rare. In the case of Bilton Pollard's illustrated in Fig. 16S, the proptosis caused by a hydatid cyst of the orbit was thought before operation to be due to an orbital sarcoma.