HEALING BY SECOND INTENTION 149 vessels. Coincidently with its formation, oradual absorption and solu- tion of the inflammatory lymph talces place. At first the new vessels are extremely imperfect, having only an endothelial coat, but later an adventitia is developed, which arises as a result of the proliferation of the fixed connective-tissue cells of the part, these cells arranging themselves in lines parallel with tlie walls of the new capillaries (Plate 20, Fig. 1), thus forming a cellular supporting tissue which is more or less abundant m the capillary network. With the development of this su^jporting tissue tliere is a gradual absorption and disappearance of the inflammatory exudate. In this new tissue—the temporary granulation tissue—the vessels always remain thin-walled, and are composed merely of endothelium, or of endothelium with a few adven- titial connective-tissue cells, and in consecjuence dilatation and rupture of them are common. This temporary granulation tissue appears mainly to have as its function the absorption of the inflammatory and other products, for when this work is completed the capillaries waste and disappear. A new set of vessels is now being formed, especially in the deeper parts of the wound, and these gradually pass directly upwards towards the surface and are much more regular in their order of development and usually better supported than the primary set. They, too, arise from the pre-existing vessels by a process of budding similar to that seen in the formation of the primary capillary network. These vessels are well developed in forty-eight hours, and, at the same period, spindle- shaped cells are seen lying at right angles to the vessels ; these cells —the fibroblasts—which have vesicular nuclei, abimdant protoplasm, and long processes, soon form definite parallel layers (Plate 20, Fig. 2), which gradually extend upwards from the deeper to the more superficial parts of the wound, thus sewing " together the two adjacent surfaces. They are formed mainly by a prohferation of the fixed connective-tissue cells of the part, though there is some evidence to show that they may also be formed from lymphocyte-like cells or from larger wandering mononuclears. This new granulation tissue is the progenitor of scar tissue. In from three to five days definite fibrils are seen running parallel to the fibroblasts, and apparently formed by a transformation of the cyto- plasm in the peripheral zone of the fibroblast. At the same time the second set of vascular loops show a thickening of their inner coat— a proliferative endarteritis—a filling-up of the lumen and a gradual shrinkage and disappearance. With the gradual increase in numbers of the fibrils, the cellular character of the tissue becomes less marked, and in three or four weeks both vessels and cells have almost entirely disappeared and have been replaced by dense white fibrous tissue— scar tissue (Plate 21, Fig. 1).