144 INFLAMMATION a bacterial invasion or to combat the effects of a mechanical injury. The hypersemia, which is the earliest and most pronounced sign of inflammation, is therefore a beneficent phenomenon, and the object of the treatment is to increase this hypersemia. General treatment.—Tlie resistance to microbic invasion is not only a matter of local reaction. The body, as a whole, is concerned in the process. Leucocytes and protective substances—antitoxins, opsonin, lysins. etc.—which are essential to successful resistance are not formed locally alone, but in the body as a whole. It is import- ant, therefore, not only to treat inflammation locally, but also to place the body generally in a condition to do its share in combating the inflammatory process. Rest and avoidance of fatigue are essential, and in the severer cases this entails confining the patient to bed. The diet should consist of such food as the patient can most readily digest. Milk and broths or meat extract are all that is necessary in the early stages. A large amount of fluid may be allowed. It is comforting to the patient, who is always thirst}^, and increasing, as it does, the secretion of the Iddneys and the skin, it assists in the. elimination of toxic products. A purge should always be given at the outset of the treatment, and the bowels should be kept freely active throughout. Saline aperients, such as sulphate of magnesium, are the most useful. The action of the Iddneys and of the skin is stimulated by the administration of diuretics and sudorifics. Stimulants will be necessary in those cases in A\hich the asthenic type of fever is present. Brandy, strychnine, and digitalis are the best. The administration of quinine and other antipyretics is called for when the fever is high, and, should hyperpyrexia super- vene, cold packs and hydrotherapeutic measures will be necessary. Serum- and vaccine-therapy.—Of late years attempts have been made to increase the antibacterial properties of the blood in treating inflammatory conditions. These measures are described else- where (p. 90), and will therefore be but briefly touched upon. It is pos sible in animals, by repeated inoculation with doses of organisms, to develop a high power of resistance on the part of the animal to those organisms. The antibacterial powers that the animal has acquired lie in certain substances contained in the blood-serum, and it is this serum which is employed for inoculation into the human patient. Although in a few diseases, such as diphtheria and tetanus, the uses of antitoxic serums are undoubted, the therapeutic advantages of other antitoxic or of antibacterial serums are very questionable in the case of the organisms found in common surgical affections. Much more promising, and, I may say, of proved service, is the administra- tion of vaccines, consisting of Icnown numbers of dead organisms of the kind which are attacking the patient's tissues. The inoculation of a vaccine is followed by a rise in the amount of opsonins in the blood-