ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 770 that the same drug might prove equally successful if tried in syphilis, which, like sleeping sickness, is a protozoal disease. His suggestions were carried out in France by Hallopeau and Salmon, and by myself and Major Ward in England, with almost immediate success. The term " arylarsonates" indicates those arsonates to which an aryl group is attached. The arsonic acids may be considered to be derived from arsenic acid by the replacing of the hydroxyl group by an organic radicle. The latter may be a member either of the fatty or paraffin series, such as methyl, ethyl, etc., or of the aromatic or benzene series, as phenyl. The radicle of the "former is known as alphyl, and an arsonic acid of this type would be known as " alphyl- arsonic acid." When the radicle belongs to the aromatic or benzene series it is called an " aryl " group, and the arsonic acid would be an " arylarsonic acid." In the case of atoxyl or soamin, the aryl radicle is derived from aniline. Briefly the prefix " aryl " to arsonates indi- cates a radicle belonging to the aromatic series. The first arylarsonate used by us in the treatment of syphilis was the preparation known as atoxyl, which is a sodium salt of an arsonic acid, containing 27'3 per cent, of arsenium. The dose given was gr. vi, injected every second day for ten days, the course being repeated after an interval of a fortnight. Although we had no bad effects, owing to the very unfavourable reports concerning its toxic effects coming from Hallopeau in Paris and Koch and other workers in Uganda, we substituted for it another arylarsonate preparation known as soamin. This is a sodium para- amino-phenylarsonate, containing 22'8 per cent, of arsenium ; it is soluble in five parts of cold water. For it are claimed stability, purity, freedom from arsenates and arsinates, and also from toxic dangers. The dose given was gr. x by injection every alternate day until a total of gr. c was attained. The same course was repeated after one month's interval. Soamin has the great disadvantage of decomposing if kept in solution for over twenty-four hours. Hence it is necessary to have the latter freshly prepared when required for use. Another, although minor objection, is that it crystallizes in the syringe. Owing to these objections, I resorted to yet a third arylarsonate, i.e. arsacetin, which was introduced by Ehrlich of Frankfort, who describes it as the acetyl derivative of atoxyl. Neisser reported on it most favourably, as being far less toxic than atoxyl, no decomposi- tion of any kind in the solution taking place even when stored for a long time. Thi? latter advantage being very important, I substi- tuted this salt for the others. The dose is the same as that of soamin. I use it in 10 per cent, and 1-5 per cent, solutions. The solution requires heating to body heat before use as an injection.