INCISIONS—COAPTATION 267 lead not only to the possibility of unintentional injury to important- structures, but also to devitalization, and therefore to slow healing of the tissues. For the same reason no rough pulling, tearing, or bruising is permissible. Care must be taken that the wound shall not become funnel-shaped, but that the different layers are divided to the same length, and that its direction generally follows the natural lines of the part, which usually also correspond to the lines of stress (Figs. 18 and 19). By this precaution unnecessary broadening of the scar is avoided, and the healed incision becomes almost indistinguishable from one of the normal folds. Care in the arrangement of the incision is esjoecially necessary, of course, in operations on the face and neck. For the prevention of infection of the woimd by the micro-organisms of the skin, its edges should be shut off from the surrounding tissues by clipping layers of gauze or similar material to the raw surfaces. With regard to the treatment of the woimd dm-ing operation, it is our custom to keep it dry, and to use only dry sterilized swabs ; towards the end of a long operation involving much handling and undue drying of the tissues it is advisable to use a normal sahne lotion before closing the wound. This, if hot, has the additional advantage of helping to stop oozing. METHODS OF COAPTATION Careful coaptation of the edges of a wound promotes rapid healing with the least possible amoimt of scarring. Care should be taken, on the one hand, that the edges lie evenly in apposition, and on the other, that the stitches be not tied so tight as to cause necrosis of the tissues in their bite. Coaptation may be secured by sutures, metal clips, collodion dressings, strapping, or other methods. Of these, the one most commonly in use is that of suturing, the materials used being silk- worm gut, catgut, silk, horsehair, and silver or other wire. If the suture be passed through the skin, and therefore removable, it is not necessary that non-absorbable material be used. Hence, silkworm- gut and horsehair form very suitable materials for this purpose, as they are strong, capable of withstanding boiling, and do not lend themselves to permeation by microbe-laden fluids as in the case of silk and other threads. Sutures may be divided into the superficial, the deep, which penetrate the superficial and deep parts, and the buried, which coapt the deep parts of the wound and do not appear on the skin at all. The buried suture should, if possible, consist of absorbable material, especially if the wound be possibly infected. One variety of the buried suture, namely, the subcuticular or endermal, is of siDecial