TUMOURS 450 lu the soft wart, and also in the congenital mole, there are some- times found beneath the epidermis certain cell masses (nsevns cells), the origin and nature of which have been the subject of much dis- cussion. The naevus cells are in some cases small and round or oval, but in other specimens they are larger, richly protoplasmic, possess a round nucleus, and are more epithelioid in character. According to the original view of von Recklinghausen, these nsevus cells are endothelial in nature, and the name lymphangio-fibroma was applied to such growths. Ribbert believes them to represent an early stage in the development of the chromatophores, before pigment has formed in the cells. Unna, on the other hand, claims to have traced the nsevus cells in the foetus from the Malpighian layer, although the continuity is lost. It will thus be seen that opinions differ as to whether the cells in question are of epithelial or connective-tissue origin. The cluef practical importance of these pigmented moles is their liability to be the^ starting-point of certain pigmented growths. Such tumours must originate in the nsevus cells, the chromatophores, or the deeper cells of the epidermis. Their histological structure is that of sarcoma or of endothelioma rather than of carcinoma. On the other hand, the marked tendency to metastases in the lymphatic glands, and their close connexion, in some cases, with changes in the deeper layers of the epidermis, suggest a carcinomatous nature. The latter fact, however, is discounted by the possibility of chroma- tophores being intercalated among the deeper epithelial cells. We think that the majority of these timiours are sarcomatous or endotheliomatous, and that the origin of any of them from the epithelium has not been proved. Reference has already been made to the pigmented patches met with in cases of neuro-fibromatosis (p. 375), and it is probable that some pigmented moles are allied to this disease. Papilloma of mucous membranes.—Papillomas occasion- ally occur on the mucous membrane of the mouth, such as the lips, cheeks, gums, tongue, and palate. A simple pedunculated papilloma in these situations is rare, but may occur in such a situation as the tip of the uvula. More often in these regions a papilloma assumes the form of a small, sessile, warty growth, whilst on the tongue warty or papillomatous patches may occur as one of the manifestations of chronic superficial glossitis. Such warty growths, especially on the tongue and lips, should always be regarded with grave. suspicion, for, even if not already cancerous, the hkelihood of the later develop- ment of malignant disease is very great. For this reason no hesita- tion should be felt in urging their free removal without delay. Papillomas of the larynx are more common than any other simple tumour in this part, and are much more frequent in children than