MALIGNANT GROWTHS 455 epitlielium, wliicli, whilst growing in an irregular manner, usually preserves recognizable resemblance to the squamous, columnar, or spheroidal varieties of epithelium in which the tumour had its origin. It is true that sometimes it is difficult to distinguish definitely, on cell characteristics alone, between some forms of sjjheroidal-celled carcinomas and some round-celled sarcomas, and in these cases certain other features of the tumours must be utilized to help in the diagnosis. It may be said generally that in carcinomas the epithelial cells still exhibit the constant feature that they lie in immediate contact one with another, or at the most are separated by a very small amoimt of intercellular substance. The cell masses are, however, usually sharply defined from the stroma of the tumour or the tissues into which they are extending. This is especially seen in sections which have been treated with various hardening reagents, and in which the shrinkage of the tissue often produces a distinct interval separating the cell mass from the tissue around it. In the ordinary round-celled sarcoma, on the other hand, the cells are less regularly arranged, and may be separated by a definite amount of homogeneous ground substance, or even by a fine reticulum. The relation of the blood-vessels to the tumour cells is a matter of great importance. In a sarcoma the blood-vessels are usually very numerous, and extend actually into the cell masses among the tumour cells (Fig. 106). The vessels, moreover, are devoid of proper vessel walls, and frequently consist merely of clefts or spaces among the cells, bounded only by specially arranged cells, often in the form of short spindles lying end to end (Fig. 103). The arrangement thus suggests the appearances seen in the normal process of the development of connective tissue. In a carcinoma, on the other hand, the small blood-vessels, although they may be very numerous, are confined to the tissues intervening between the cell masses, and do not extend into the latter (Fig. 145) ; they present the appearance of ordinary arterioles, venules, and capillaries. The relation of the tumour cells of malignant growths to the hjiii- fhatics is a matter of great practical importance, although no definite differentiation between the two classes can be based upon it. The evidence of lymphatic invasion and dissemination in carcinoma is usually very obvious at the spreading margin, where the tumour cells can frequently be seen lying in slender columns in the lymj^h spaces, and often surrounded by the flattened endothelial cells of the latter (Fig. 107). Although the statement Avill require some qualification, it may be laid down as a general rule that in the sarcomas dissemination takes place chiefly by way of the blood-vessels, whilst the carcinomas extend mainly along the lymph-channels. For example, in the case of a sarcoma of the periosteum of the tibia we should look for evidences of