SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 7° Active immunity is readily obtained by the introduction of attenuated cultures. From filtered bouillon cultures of the organism toxic effects may be obtained in animals, but large doses have to be used to produce the characteristic lesions which occur in the bacillary infection. The toxin appears to be a highly resistant body, and is not destroyed by heating to a temperature of 110° C. Malignant oedema is a condition now only rarely seen, but it was probably common in pre-antiseptic days among the cases described under such terms as gangrenous emphysema, hospital gangrene, purulent oedema, and so on. When met with the organism is usually present as a mixed infection along with other organisms, especially the pyo- genetic cocci, whose association with it helps to provide the necessary anaerobic conditions. Bacillus mallei (glanders bacillus).—The bacillus of glan- ders was first identified and proved to be the cause of the disease in 1882 by LofSer and Schiitz, who succeeded in isolating it in pure culture from a number of cases, and showed that on inoculation into horses it reproduced the typical disease. It had been noted previously by Bouchard and Charrin along with other organisms in the pus from the lesions in horses, and they had found that such material conveyed the specific disease to other animals. But they entirely failed to obtain pure cultures. Weichselbaum, in 1885, separated it in pure culture from a human case of glanders, and by inoculating animals confirmed the observa- tions made by Loffier and Schiitz. The bacillus is a slender rod-shaped organism of somew"hat irregular outline, either straight or slightly curved, with rounded ends, and similar in size to the tubercle bacillus, though rather thicker. It varies considerably in length, measuring 2-5 fju, and its width is about O'3-l /i. It is commonly either arranged as a diplobacillus or dis- tributed singly, and both in films from cultures and in pus it is not unusual to find a number of pairs lying side by side instead of end to end like diplobacilli. It sometimes grows out into short unsegmented filaments of 10-20 /u. in length, especially when placed imder con- ditions which are to some extent unfavourable. It is not motile, and has no flagella. Spores are not formed. The staining properties of the bacillus are somewhat miusual, and it is often said to be difficult to stain. This is due to the fact that it is very readily decolorized, imless a mordant of some kind be em- ployed. Hence it is easily stained in a bacterial film, which only needs to be washed with water and dried off after the staining. But in sections where a dehydrating agent has to be employed, it is often decolorized, especially if alcohol be used for the dehydration.