6oo TUMOURS embryo is set free. This lias the power of actively making its way through the stomach wall, and, as it is scarcely larger than a red blood- corpuscle, is readily carried to the Uver or lungs or to some other part. Having become arrested, the embryo develops into a cyst, in which further stages of development occur. The wall of the parasitic or hydatid cyst consists of an outer elastic laminated cuticular layer and an inner granular or parenchymatous layer, whilst aroimd the true cyst a pseudocyst develops as the result of inflammatory reaction in the surrounding tissues of the host. The fluid contained in the cyst is colourless and clear, or slightly opalescent, reaction neutral, specific gravity 1002 to 1005 ; it is non-albuminous, and contains some chloride of sodium with sometimes a trace of a reducing agent. By the time the cyst has reached the size of a walnut a number of " brood capsules " begin to form on the inner surface, and appear as small bodies like pins' heads. Each brood capsule also consists of two layers, but the cuticular layer is internal, and on it a number of heads or " scolices " (Fig. 167) form, which fail to imdergo further development unless they reach the alimentary canal of a suitable host, such as the dog, when they become the heads of a new generation of adult worms. The hydatid form of Tcenia echinococcus is met with in several of the lower animals, such as the sheep, cow, and pig, as well as in man, and it is from the ofEal of such animals that the dog becomes infected. The hydatid cyst, as it occurs in man, may be single or multiple, and varies in size within wide limits, some of the largest containing many pints of fluid. In addition to the development of brood capsules and scolices as above described, a very common occurrence is the formation of secondary or " daughter cysts " in or outside the parent cyst. When the daughter cysts arise internally they are formed from the brood capsules or scolices, and may themselves proceed to develop in a similar way; they often escape in the form of grape-like cysts when the parent cyst is opened. Such a cyst is called endogenous. When the daughter cysts arise externally they originate between the laminje of the cuticular layer of the parent cyst and project into the surroimding tissues. Such a cyst is called exogenous. A rare variety of hydatid cyst, which has been found in the liver, consists of a mass of small cysts giving to the whole an alveolar structure. This variety was originally mistaken for colloid cancer imtil its true nature was discovered by Virchow, who gave it the name multilocular hydatid. In the tissue around the cysts large numbers of giant cells may be found. It occasionally happens that the jaarent cyst or some of the daughter cysts may fail to produce brood capsules and scolices. Such a sterile cyst is called an acephalocyst. Secondary changes.—The length of time during which a hydatid cyst may remain alive is not known, but certainly it may Hve for many