ACUTE PROSTATITIS all tenderness lias disappeared and the swelling is limited to the epididymis, it is generally advised to apply the pressure by means of firm strapping. It is, however, far from easy to strap a testicle so as. to obtain the right degree of pressure, and a well-applied bandage is quite as efficacious, and much more agreeable to the patient. Lastly it must be remembered that the posterior urethritis, which gave rise to the epididymitis, will require appropriate treatment. ACUTE PROSTATITIS When in the course of an acute gonorrhcea the inflammation spreads to the posterior urethra (as it does usually about the end of the third week), it almost of necessity involves the prostatic gland, giving rise to a purulent catarrh of its numerous mucous follicles. This acute follicular or catarrhal prostatitis is limited to the mucous membrane, and gives rise to no symptoms beyond those of acute posterior urethritis, already described. Usually, under appropriate treatment, the inflam- mation readily subsides ; but occasionally, in consequence, perhaps, of some indiscretion in diet or hygiene, the inflammatory action spreads to the interstitial substance of the prostate, and so gives rise to an acute diffuse or parenchymatous prostatitis. The inflammation spreads from the mucous membrane deep into the substance of the prostate, and tliere, between the glandular elements, forms numerous small yellow infiltration foci, which either develop into minute miliary abscesses or coalesce so as to form one large collection of pus. The symptoms evoked by an acute parenchymatous prostatitis vary according to the seat and severity of the inflammatory process. As a rule the onset is decidedl}^ sudden, the patient experiencing a feeling of weight and uneasiness about the rectum and perineum, as though there were a foreign body in the bowel; the desire for micturi- tion becomes distressingly frequent, though the urine is passed with increasing difficulty and pain ; retention of urine is not uncommon. The temperature rises rapidly, and general feverish symptoms are present. Per rectum the prostate can be felt to be greatly swollen, hot, and acutely tender. Under appropriate treatment the inflam- mation usually resolves, but occasionally ^^roceeds to suppuration, and the abscess, if untreated, after a longer or shorter time bursts into the urethra or rectum, or, rarely, opens externally through the perineum. Treatment.—As soon as this comphcation is suspected all local treatment of the urethritis must be suspended ; the patient must be kept in bed, on a low diet, and the congestion of the lower part of the bowel relieved by a mild purgative. For the relief of the pain and tenesmus, heat should be applied to the perineum by means of large poultices or frequent sitz-baths, or hot-water enemas may be given.