588 TUMOURS veins and caused metastases on the lungs. Subsequent examination of the specimens from this case led Kanthack and Pigg to regard it as a columnar-celled carcinoma with cartilaginous formation in the stroma, but still more recently the discovery of epithelial pearls in certain of the nodules of growth by Nicholson seems to complete the evidence that the tumour is in reality a teratoma. The- metastases in the lungs containing cartilage and spaces lined with columnar epithelium must be regarded rather as the result of the transplantation of fragments of the growth which reached the interior of the vena cava than as an evidence of any true malignant change in the cells of the tumour. In rare instances a tumour having in part the structure of chorion- epithelioma (p. 578) occurs in the testicle. Such a tumoiir, as first pointed out by Schlagenhaufer, must be regarded as a teratoma in which the chorion-epitheliomatous growth has arisen from the epiblast. In a specimen of this nature which we have examined the tumour contained, in addition to s}Ticytial tissue, islands of hyaline cartilage and tubules lined with cylindrical epithelium. The presence of this modification in the structure of a testicular teratoma is likely to be associated with extensive htemorrhagic extravasations, which may, to a large extent, obscure the nature of the growth. In more than one recorded case the tumour has contained villi resembling those of a vesicular mole. These tumours are usually very malignant and tend to cause metastases through the blood-stream. Among four cases described by Nicholson, there were metastases in the lungs and brain in one, in the abdomen in another, and in the liver, abdominal glands, and lungs in a third. Dermoids (cystic embryomas) of the testicle are very rare, and are distinguished from simple dermoid cysts of the scrotum by the fact that they are contained within the tunica albuginea. As in the ovarian dermoid, a process of complex structure may project into the cyst. In a tumour of the testicle recently described by Barrington, a dermoid cyst, lined with stratified epithelium and provided with sebaceous and sweat-glands, was associated with a solid tumour having the histological structure of a carcinoma with columnar and irregular cell elements. It is probable that in this case the carcinomatous growth originated in the hypoblastic elements of a teratoma, the epiblastic element of wliich was represented by the dermoid cyst. Teratomas of the cranium and spine are classified by Borst according as they are or are not associated with crania or spina bifida. In the cranium they have been met with on the convexity or at the base. As an example of the extraordinary features which such a tumour may present at the base of the skull may be mentioned the specimen described by Breslau and Rindfleisch, and cited by Borst, in which a pedunculated tumour projecting into the pharjmx was