GANGRENE IN RAYNAUD'S DISEASE action of cold, the abuse of alcohol and tobacco, mineral and organic poisons, and diabetes. The symptoms are often characteristic. On taking exercise the patient suffers from numbness, tingling, itching, cyanosis, and weakness of the legs, wliich pass off again with rest; consequently the terms " intermittent limp " and " intermittent claudication " have been applied to this condition. The femoral, brachial, or subclavian arteries can be felt as liard cords, and little or no pulsation can be detected in the peripheral vessels. In due course dry gangrene sets in, invading a finger, a toe, a portion or the whole of an extremity. Treatment in the early stages must be dn-ected to the main- tenance of warmth, the relief of pain, and the removal of any possible cause of irritation. Antisyphilitic remedies may be tried for a time, though they do not appear to have had any beneficial eff'ect in reported cases. A gangrenous digit may be allowed to drop off, but when a foot or a hand is implicated, amputation above the knee or the elbow is usually necessary. 8. Gangrene due to spasm of the arterioles.— Under this lieading two forms of gangrene call for description, viz. gangrene due to Raynaud's disease, and gangrene due to ergot. Gan- grene caused by spasm of arterioles following cold will be discussed later. Gangrene due to Raynaud's disease, sometimes incor- rectly termed " symmetrical gangrene," is a variety of suj^erficial gangrene following spasm of the arterioles of nervous origin. Though generally bilateral, it may be unilateral, and even limited to the dis- tribution of a single nerve, but it is seldom symmetrical as its oft- used synonym implies. In a rare case of Choyce's, all four extremities were affected (Plate 28). In some instances it is liighly probable that the arterial spasm is an independent disease of the nature of an angio- neurosis ; but in the majority of cases it is merely a syndrome created by some nervous affection, such as hysteria, tabes, epilepsy, syringo- myelia, and certain forms of neuritis. When occurring as a patho- logical entity, the condition is not a serious one, and seldom leads to more than superficial necrosis. It generally commences in women between tlie ages of 18 and 30, is often developed by cold, affects the fingers of either or both hands, and less commonly the toes, the tips of the ears, and the nose. The term " Raynaud's gangrene" should only be applied to those cases which are preceded by certain phenomena known as local syncope and local asphyxia, and which are unaccompanied by obstruction or disease of the main arteries. Symptoms.—Very often, as the result of some mental sliock, or under the stress of intense emotion, the fingers become pale, bloodless, insensitive, and shrunken, owing to contraction of the arterioles [local