591 CYSTS any trace of the thyroid gland be found. Microscopically these tumours consist of cysts lined with columnar epithelium, lymphoid tissue, and islands of cartilage. As Keith says, " How the thyroid body of the foetus comes to assume such a structure and size is an enigma." CYSTS Under this heading it is convenient to bring together various patho- logical formations which, although differing widely in their nature, agree in the fact that they consist of a collection of fluid surrounded by a wall of connective tissue which may or may not be lined with epithelium or endothelium. Localized collections of fluid, due to pathological causes, are so common that it is difficult to frame a satis- factory definition which shall distinguish cysts from other collection«, and the distinction is largely an arbitrary one. Certain conditions can readily be excluded, such as (1) natural spaces distended with fluid, e.g. a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, a distended bursa, or a tubo-ovarian cyst ; (2) hollow organs distended by excretions or secretions, such as hydronephrosis, or a distended gall-bladder ; and (3) cysts present in tumours, and (a) resulting from various accidental conditions, such as hpemorrhage or degeneration, or {h) occurring as an essential feature of the growth, as in the cystic adenoma of the breast. A true cyst usually presents itself as a definite localized " tumour," and is often capable of being removed intact from the tissues in which it lies. According to their mode of origin cysts can most conveniently be classified as follows :— 1. Glandular retention cysts. 2. Exudation cysts. 3. Cysts arising in rudimentary structures or tissue inclusions. 4. Parasitic cysts. 1. Glandular retention cysts.—Cysts resulting from reten- tion of secretions, often more or less modified, are liable to form in all glands, and are met with in the breast, pancreas, salivary glands, ovary, kidney, and liver. Such special glandular cysts will be con- sidered in connexion with other diseases of the organs in which they occur. Two varieties may, however, be conveniently described here— those arising in the sebaceous glands and mucous glands respectively. Sebaceous or atheromatous cysts occur in all situations in which sebaceous glands are normally present. They are, however, most common on the scalp and face, are not rare on the neck, shoulders and back, buttocks, scrotum and penis, but are seldom met with on the limbs. They are frequently multiple, and vary in size, but rarely exceed that of a large orange. A sebaceous cyst possesses