712 TUBERCULOSIS three to five clays the bacilli become surrounded by a definite zone of these cells, which are rounded or oval in shape, have a vesicular nucleus and abundant cytoplasm. These epithelioid cells (Plate 69, Fig. 1) are almost certainly derived by a proliferation of the endothelial cells lining, especially, lymph spaces and channels at the focus of infec- tion, and probably also by an actual multiplication of the fixed con- nective-tissue cells. In these cells the bacilli are found in great numbers, often so numerous as to suggest a local multiplication within the cell cytoplasm. In from six to ten days these local areas of epithelioid cells become surrounded by a zone of small round cells with all the characteristics of lymphocytes (Plate 69, Fig. 1), and constitute the tubercle follicle. The lymphoid cells are derived partly from the local fixed cells by proliferation, but many of them migrate to the focus from the lymph- and the blood-vessels, the peripheral blood at this stage sliowing a distinct lymphocytosis. Transitions between these lymphoid cells and the epithelioid cells can be made out, and it is possible that those lymphoid cells which are derived from the fixed connective-tissue cells may be capable of becoming epithelioid cells, though on this point there is some doubt. The relative numbers of epithelioid and lymphoid cells vary con- siderably in different cases, and also in different areas in the same case, and this variation does not appear to be due to the age of the nodule. Some early nodules may show only epithelioid cells, whilst in others the lymphoid cells may be very numerous and may par- tially obscure the epithelioid elements. In from eleven to fifteen days after the inoculation the central parts of the nodules undergo caseation. The outlines of the central cells become indefinite (Plate 69, Fig. 2), the cells seem to coalesce, and the nuclei lose their staining reactions. Thus is produced a central, granular, or structureless area, surrounded by a more or less definite zone of lymphoid cells. With the increase in size of the nodules the area of caseation becomes more marked. Separate foci coalesce, and thus large caseous nodules are produced. In certain of these nodules, especially in those slowly produced, characteristic giant cells are observed (Plate 70, Fig. 1). These are irregular masses of cytoplasm, having a granular appearance, due to caseation, and containing numerous nuclei, either arranged at the periphery or more irregularly scattered in the body of the cell. Various views have been put forward as to the origin of these cells, but all recent work seems to indicate that they are formed eitlier by a fusion of the epithelioid cells or by a multiplication of the nuclei of these cells without a corresponding division of the cytoplasm. In the central caseous part of the nodules and in the giant cells the B. tuberculosis