287 WOUNDS OF HEART AND ABDOMEN cxternil wounds, or from a liaemot.liorax becoming infected. Fscal infection of the plem'a by a bullet that has passed through the abdomen may occur, and is very fatal. Pleurisy and pneumonia are occasional complications of chest wounds, and abscesses or even gangrene of the lung may occur, though very rarely. Bullets seldom lodge in the lung, though they may do so in the chest wall. After the wounds have healed, pain and shortness of breath on exertion may persist for some time, even after comparatively slight injuries. For treatment, rest and attention to the external wounds usually suffice. Haemoptysis, if severe, is best treated by inhalation of amyl nitrite. Haemothorax should not be interfered with unless it is caus- ing serious pressure symptoms, and in any case nothing more than aspiration is needed. Incision with drainage for haemothorax is dangerous ; the risk of sepsis is so great. Empyema must l:)e drained in the usual way. Wounds of the heart are fatal in the great majority of cases. Even where death is not immediate, it is ^practically impossible to operate in time in the field, though a good many successful cases of suture of gunshot wounds of the heart in peace time have been recorded. Probably all that can be hoped for is that an occasional case may be saved by draining the pericardium, either for haemo- pericardium or later for septic pericarditis. A few cases of wound of the heart have recovered without operation ; probably these were slight injuries not penetrating the heart's wall. Penetrating wounds of the abdomen are serious injuries, but their mortality has diminished (■onsiderably since the introduction of the small-bore rifle bullet. It is quite possible for a bullet to traverse the abdomen without perforating the intestine if it happens to find its way between the coils. Superficial contusions and grooving of the intestinal wall have been seen in such cases. Intestine struck directly is perforated, the holes being small and circular, and readily blocked by prolapse of the mucous membrane, infection of the peri- toneum being thus prevented. The most dangerous wounds of the intestine are long slits cut by bullets passing along its wall, and lacerations by large or irregular missiles, such as pieces of shell, deformed rifle bullets, or shrapnel bullets, for free leakage into the peritoneum is then inevitable. In the stomach and bladder either small perforations or slits of varying length may be cut, according to whether the bullet strikes perpendicularly or tangentially to the surface of the organ. Rifle-lnillet wounds of the solid abdominal viscera are usually clean j^wnctures or grooves with no laceration. Large bullets produce large tracks with a good deal of laceration in the solid organs. At short ranges, 200 yards or less, rifle bullets iirflict much more severe injury upon all the abdominal organs ; the liver,