319 HEMORRHAGE : TREATMENT quickly as possible. If the right Iieart becomes seriously embarrassed, artificial respiration should be at once begun, as the condition fre- quently ends in death. Senn has advised puncture and aspiration of the right ventricle, or, if the air has entered by the jugular vein, catheterization and aspiration of the right auricle—both somewhat drastic measures. Stimulation of the vagus has been recommended, but most surgeons depend mainly upon artificial respiration. Treatment of capillary haemorrhage.—Capillary haemor- rhage is rarely dangerous in the normal individual, and can usually be arrested by pressure or the use of hsemostatics. The most impor- tant of these are cold (ice-cold water), hot water at 115° F., adrenalin chloride, tannic and gallic acids, and calcium chloride. None of these should be applied in such strength or for long enough seriously to damage the tissues. In some cases the application of the cautery at a dull-red heat so as to char the tissues is the best method of arrest- ing capillary hieniorrhage. Treatment of intermediary haemorrhage.—The methods of arresting intermediary haemorrhage are precisely similar to those for arresting primary haemorrhage, which it exactly resembles ; but concealed haemorrhage, which is frequently intermediary, demands a special word. In cases of abdominal hajmorrhage, especially occur- ring after operation, a second operation for the arrest of hfemorrhage cannot always be undertaken at a moment's notice, and yet the bleed- ing may be severe. The patient should be placed with the head lower than the trunk and limbs, and then the limbs carefully and firmly bandaged from the extremities to the trunk, so as to drive the blood to the vaso-motor centres in the brain. Direct transfusion has been carried out by Crile in these cases, but he advises that, if possible, the bleeding vessel should first be ligatured. Treatment of secondary haemorrhage.—The treatment of secondary haemorrhage differs in one important point from the treatment of primary ha-morrhage : no matter how slight the haemor- rhage may be, or whether the haemorrhage has stopped when the patient is seen, the treatment must be to secure firmly the artery, as a small preliminary haemorrhage may be the precursor of a large and fatal one. The most satisfactory method of treatment, and the method to be adopted whenever practicable is to open up the wound thoroughly after.applying a tourniquet, and place a ligatm-e on the bleeding-point, opportunity being taken to render the wound as aseptic as possible, and so to bring about healing without danger of further haemorrhage. This method is not always possible, for the following reasons :—- 1. The tissues may be so sloughing that the ligature will not hold.