TUMOURS 430 neuromas." A certain degree of bulbous enlargement may in these- circumstances be regarded as normal, and even when the bulb reaches an excessive size it cannot justly be viewed as a tumour. A section through the bulbous end of a divided nerve shows micro- scopically bundles of newly formed nerves irregularly arranged and lying in a stroma of fibrous tissue. The formation of nerve-fibres must be regarded as evidence of a disturbed attempt at repair. ADENOMA An adenoma is a simple tumour corresponding in its structure more or less closely with that of a secreting gland, and consisting of epithelium-lined spaces lying in a connective-tissue stroma. The histological and naked-eye characters of an adenoma are necessarily dependent upon those of the part in connexion with which it arises, and thus a separate description of the several types is necessary. Before, however, proceeding to this, it is necessary to point out that some confusion has arisen from the application of the term " adenoma " to various glandular hyperplasias which do not partake of the nature of true tumours. For instance, in the chronic inflammatory hyper- plasia sometimes affecting the integument of the nose (rhinophyma), the large sebaceous glands of the part form such a predominant histo- logical feature that the condition has sometimes been termed a sebaceous adenoma, although it possesses none of the characters of a tumour formation. Again, in certain chronic inflammations of the gastric and intestinal mucous membrane, localized glandular over- growths are not uncommon and are sometimes wrongly regarded as adenomas. Further, in the chronic enlargement of the prostate a number of closely packed glandular masses are frequently present, but in view of the fact that there is strong evidence for regarding the enlargement as inflammatory and not a tumour formation, these glandular deposits should not be termed adenomas. Considerable difficulty is sometimes encountered in endeavouring to decide whether a tumour is of the simple glandular (adenoma) or malignant glandular (carcinoma) type. This difficulty arises from the fact that in their histological structure certain carcinomas retain in a striking degree a close resemblance to the gland in which they arise, as, for instance, in certain malignant tumours of the thyroid. The distinction must be based not only on the histological structure, but also on the relations of the tumour elements to the surrounding tissues. For instance, many carcinomas of the large intestine consist of spaces lined with a very regular layer of columnar epithelium, closely reproducing the structure of the normal intestinal glands. The adenomas of the intestine present