168 SUPPURATION subcutaneous tissues, suppuration produced by pure streptococcus is not common, and when this micro-organism is found in pure culture in the lymphatic glands or in the subcutaneous tissues, careful investi- gation, in my experience, generally shows that the suppuration has occurred during or after an attack of erysipelas. The site of inoculation is an important factor in determining the Idnd of micro-organism which may be present; e.g. in peritoneal suppuration which is induced by appendicitis the B. coli communis is commonly found, whereas in suppuration in the pleural cavity in cases of pneumonia it is usually the pneumococcus that is present. Micro-organisms which induce chronic suppuration.—The micro-organism which is most constantly found in chronic suppuration is B. tuberculosis. Chronic suppuration and tuberculous suppuration have become almost synonymous terms in spite of the fact that tuberculous disease is more a degenerative than a true suppurative process. More typical chronic suppuration may be induced by B. typhosus, B. mallei, and by the actinomyces and other streptothricise. Kocher and others have shown that the micro-organisms which usually induce acute or subacute sujipuration may occasionally give rise to slowly formed semi-quiescent collections of pus. This form of chronic suppuration occurs more particularly in bones, and especially at their extremities. Other micro-organisms are found more or less frequently in pus, but proof is still required that they are its exciting cause ; under this head may be classed—SpirocJiCBte pallida, B. anthracis, B. cedematis maligni, and certain hyphal fungi, especially varieties of Aspergillus and Trichophyton. How the micro-organisms of suppuration gain entrance.— Micro-organisms which cause suppuration gain entrance, in the majority of cases, if not in all, through a solution of continuity. Garre rubbed virulent staphylococci on the surface of the sldn, and provoked foci of acute suppuration ; but there can be little doubt that he made wounds and infected them. In large wounds the liability to infection is greater than in small ones, yet the size is not of fundamental import- ance. Slight suppuration may occur in a large wound ; and intensive suppuration, ending fatally even, may be initiated by infection of a wound so small that it cannot be seen with the naked eye. Any article which causes the wound may carry on it the micro-organisms that induce suppuration, or they may gain admission at a period later n the wound's history. It may be taken as a law that if suppuration should occur in a wound of which the skin edges have been brought together, and which does not communicate with any septic focus, then the micro-organisms gained admission during the operation—even when the suppuration