240 WOUNDS AND WOUND TREATMENT coagulum is especially deposited in the peripheral parts of the cyst, the central parts being occupied by a more or less fluid content. This condition is of special interest in the skull, owing to its simulation of a depressed fracture. A hsematoma may terminate in one of four ways : (1) It may become gradually and entirely absorbed ; (2) it may suppurate, if infected by organisms which gain entrance either through the abraded surface or by the lymph- or blood-stream ; (3) by disappearance of its fluid centre it may leave a firm and persistent mass ; or (4) it may lead to the production of a permanent cyst with hsematoidin- pigmented walls and a clear fluid content. TREATMENT OF SUBCUTANEOUS WOUNDS Bruises.—Treatment should be directed to stopping the sub- cutaneous vascular leakage, to relief of pain, and to acceleration of the absorption of the extravasated and damaged material. Rest is important both for the relief of pain and for the prevention of swelling. Elastic pressure is of great value during the very early stages for the inhibition of excessive extravasation, but should be used with caution M^hen definite swelling has been established. Cold applications, in the form of douches, ice, or evaporating lotions ; heat, and the use of local anodynes such as lead lotion, belladonna, or glycerine and atropine, serve to allay pain. Although lead salts are powerfully astringent and to a certain extent anodyne, probably the chief value of lead lotion when applied to unbroken skin is attri- butable to the cold induced by its evaporation. Heat should only be applied when all danger of increasing the extravasation has passed. In the later stages massage is of great value for the promotion of absorption, and even from the first a gentle form of effleurage (stroking) and petrissage (kneading) is very comforting to the patient. Haematomas must be treated on the lines indicated above, which will usually lead to entire absorption. Occasionally the removal of an unduly large hsematoma may be facilitated by incision and evacuation, under rigidly aseptic precautions. Old cysts or fibrous tumours resulting from hsematomas will require excision, whilst suppurating blood-tumours must be treated as abscesses, incised, emptied and drained. II. OPEN WOUNDS 1. An incised wound is a clean-cut linear wound, usually not associated with much bruising of the edges. It bleeds freely owing to the fact that the coats of the vessels do not retract so much as when torn or crushed. It is caused by any sharp instrument. Sometimes,