I/O SUPPURATION without inducing a suppurative process, whereas a small dose of the same culture might cause an acute abscess and nothing more. But there is a degxee of virulence in which it would seem impossible to inoculate a dose sufficiently small to avoid a fatal issue in a few hours ; for instance, Marmorek and W. Bulloch showed that the virulence of a streptococcus can be so intensified by passing the culture through rabbits, that even half a millionth of a cubic centimetre caused death in seven hours. The degree of virulence of the inoculated micro- organism influences the behaviour of the tissues of the host, and the initiation and degree of suppuration depend greatly upon it. The degree of virulence varies in the life history of the same micro- organism. 4. Method of inoculation.—It is possible to demonstrate that a dose of a micro-organism inoculated in mass behaves differently from the same dose inoculated in fine emulsion. I have convinced myself that a mass of staphylococci taken from the surface of a culture on agar and inoculated under the skin can induce a form of suppuration at the seat of inoculation ; but when the same dose from the same medium is inoculated in fine emulsion a focus of suppuration at the seat of inoculation does not of necessity follow. 5. Purity or mixture of infection probably has an influence upon events in the host. Probably a staphylococcus when inoculated with another organism not capable of inducing suppuration, such as B. prodigiosus, requires a smaller dose to produce suppuration than it would were the B. prodigiosus absent. It is not possible to explain the fact. B. prodigiosus is not pathogenetic except in very large dose. The combination of the two micro-organisms may increase slightly the virulence of the staphylococcus, or the presence of the comparatively small dose of B. prodigiosus may render the tissues of the host more susceptible to the action of the staphylococcus. At any rate, it is known that the action of other micro-organisms is modified by luixture of infection ; for instance, B. tetani is more dangerous when its infection is mixed with micro-organisms capable of inducing suppuration, probably because B. tetani, being an anaerobic organism, only becomes active through a utilization of the oxygen by the associated pyogenetic organisms. (6) Factors connected with the host. Immunity and suscepti- bility.—One host may be immime to a suppurative process to which another may be susceptible, although the same dose of the same micro-organism and of the same degree of virulence be inoculated in each case. Age has an important influence upon the incidence of some suppurative processes. Infants are very susceptible to suppuration caused by the pneumococcus, to which adults are not so liable ; similarly, the vaginal mucous membrane of a child is very