119 MONONUCLRATFI) CKLLS (-3) Plasma cells (I'iair if., Fiu. l).—Maximow classes these as li:i'iiial cells, niaiiilx' ilri i\rd IVoni t he 1viii|i1hic\'I<'s Adami. (I('scril)iiig tlic jilasiiia cell, says: " it has a rclali\cl\' small. I'uiind or o\al. not iiulcnrcd, nucleus, coarsely graiiular, rich in idironiatin, and further stainin^i' darkly ; llie nucleus is situated eccentrically. 'i'he cell hod}' stains dee])ly w it li I 'iina's met hx lene hlue : the sha])e wit liin I lie tissues is liahle to considerahle variation—often rounded or oval ; the cells may be polygonal, oi- diaw n out into a spindle ; they arc obscurely amo'boid. . . . As lhe\' urow lai'Licr and older, the c\'1oplasm tends to become vacuolated ami the nucleus to be less deeply stained." This description, which, I believe, truly represents the plasma cells of I'lina. is not by any means generally followed in present-day literature. There is great diliiculty in understanding what any given writer means when he .speaks of "' plasma cells."" the tendency being to place in this class any mononucleated cell which shows a markedly basophile reaction in its c\-toplasni. Dependence is placed wholly on staining reactions, and the fact that the cell is a living entity which undergoes various changes during its life is almost entirely ignored. If we are to regard cells as the producers or even the carriers of food materials, poi.sonous substances, antibodies, etc., it is reasonable to assume that they will show different character.s and different stain- ing reactions in dilterent stages of activity. I am inclined to agree with ^la.ximow that the plasma cell is a modified lymphocyte, and one which has l)ecome modihed to perform a special function. (1) Hyaline leucocytes. — These large mononucleated cells have an oval or kidney-shaped nucleus which stains less intensely than that of the Ivmphocytes. and cytoplasm which is devoid of granvdes. In their general characters they resemble the large lym- phocytes, antl, even though the I\-mphocvte is described as having granules in its cytoplasm, it is often extremely difficult to differen- tiate between the two classes of cells. Transitions between the small lymphocytes, the lai^er l\-niphocvtes. and these hyaline cells have been desi'rit)ed as occuiring in the circulating blood. This certainly is not in agreement with my ob-servations. In normal blood the hvaline cells are comparatively few in numl)er, but in cases of malaria there nuiv be a considerable increase without a corresponding increase in the lymphocytes. The amo'boid pro- pert\- of these cell-< can lie clearly demonstrated on the warm stage, and we think it probable that thev mav be derived from the endo- thelium lining of lilood- and Ivmphatic vessels (Plate Hi). {')) Other forms of mononucleated cells.—From what has been said it will be understood that I am not prepared to draw absolute lines of distinction between the larger forms of lym])hocytes, the plasnui cells, the so-called hyaline leucocytes, and the other forms