787 ADJUVANTS TO SALVARSAN injection, and we have found its effect at least as lasting as that of the latter. Dosage.—In ordinary cases of syphilis, where the patient is otherwise healthy, a dose of 0 6 grm. may be given to men and 0'5 grm. to women by the intravenous method, while 0'7-0-8 grm. may be given locally to men, and correspondingly smaller doses to women. Children should receive 0 005-0"01 grm. per kilogrm. of body weight. When the indications are in favour of giving salvarsan in cases of cerebral disease or paras}'philis, as well as to very weakly patients, the dose should be reduced to a half of the above amounts. Repetition of the dose.—Our practice, when trusting to salvarsan only, given intravenously, is to repeat the injection in every case a fortnight later, since it is unlikely that every parasite will be destroyed by a single intravenous injection. In a number of cases we have given one injection of 06 grm. followed by three of 0-3 grm. at fortnightly intervals ; in others, a second dose only, of 0-6 grm., has been given after a fortnight. The question of repeating tlie administration at a later period depends on the Wassermann reaction and the clinical behaviour of the case. A persistently positive Wasser- mann reaction is a certain indication for repeating the dose, as well as one in which the reaction returns to positive after being converted to negative. The same remark ap23lies to cases in which clinical symptoms persist after the injection for a longer time than is usually the case after salvarsan has been given, and those in which the symptoms return. Adjuvants to salvarsan treatment.—Owing to the fact that very many of the parasites may lie within areas surromided by thrombosed vessels, or actually in these vessels, and so be pro- tected from attack via the circulation, treatment of primary cases should include an attack from without in the shape of excision of the sore, actual cautery, or the application of calomel ointment (calomel 33, lanoline 67, and vaseline 10). For the same reason we have lately adopted the following plan, particularly in primary and early secondary cases: An intravenous injection of 0 6 grm. of salvarsan is first given to destroy the great majority of the treponemata ; this is followed by three injections of calomel cream (Hg^Clo gi'- f in each) and six of mercurial cream (Hg gr. i in each) at weekly in- tervals, as well as potassium iodide internally, to carry on the process of repair and prevent the remaining treponemata from starting any fresh areas of sclerosis ; finally, an injection of 0 6 grm. of salvarsan is given intravenously to administer the coup de grace to the parasites.