128 INFLAMMATION In serous cavities, fibrinous exudates often appear to restrict the spread of the disease, and the fibrinous adhesions which are formed may confine the infection to its seat of origin. Thus, in the peritoneum the adhesions between tlie coils of the intestine frequently have a very definite localizing action on the spread of the inflammatory process. These sero-fibrinous or fibrinous exudates may occur in almost any situ- ation, but are specially seen in serous cavities and on mucous surfaces. 3. Suppurative inflammation.—Though suppurative in- flammation will be described by another writer (p. 166), it is con- venient to deal with some of the main points here, so as to establish the definite association between this form and those already described. As in the fibrinous form, the leucocyte emigration is the essential feature ; but owing, in many cases, to the continued action of the bacteria, or to the want of protective reaction on the part of the tissues, the bacteria for a considerable time hold sway and the cells undergo degeneration and death. Thus there is produced at the focus a thick, more or less creamy and opaque fluid (pus), which is composed in the main of polymorphonuclear leucocytes, some of which show .quite regular nuclear staining reactions, and have in their cytoplasm foreign material, especially bacteria, in all stages of degeneration. Others show badly-staining broken-up nuclei. Mononucleated cells derived from the blood and from the fixed tissue elements may also be present in greater or lesser numbers. In addition, there is always partially digested necrotic tissue. Fibrin is usually absent, and the causal bacteria may or may not be present, they, in the later stages, having become completely disintegrated. Thus " sterile " pus is not uncommonly found. The absence of fibrin is generally attributed to the disintegration of the proteins, of the necrotic tissue, and of the cells by. ferments developed by the pathogenetic bacteria or derived from the cells. These proteolytic ferments cause a liquefaction of the various elements, and this liquefied and partially degenerated material constitutes pus. The pus, in addition to the ferments, peptones, and bactericidal substances, may contain cholesterin crystals and fatty acids, as well as pigment derived from red blood-corpuscles or pro- duced by chromogenetic bacteria. There seems little doubt that in the vast proportion of suppurative inflammatory reactions in the human subject bacteria are or were present; but it must be admitted that pus may be produced experimentally by the injection of certain chemical irritants, such as turpentine, the salts of mercury and copper, as well as by the products of the growth of certain bacteria. The suppurative conditions which sometimes follow the intramuscular injection of mercury in cases of syphilis, or the subcutaneous injec- tion of antitoxin, may be aseptic ; but the ease with which organisms can gain admission from the superficial parts of the skin renders it