8l2 GONORRHCEA Morbid changes in the urethral secretion and mucous membrane.—It may be remarked that the nature and amount of a urethral secretion are generally better appreciated by an examination of the urine than by inspecting the secretion as it exudes from the meatus. This especially apphes to the chronic condition of the disease ; indeed, as we shall see later, it often happens that the only sign of a chronic urethritis is the appearance of the urine. More- over, by the means suggested we are enabled to ascertain whether it is a case of gonorrhoea or not, without the patient being asked a single question or being aware of our suspicion. The importance of this when dealing with women, or with men of a sensitive nature, will be readily appreciated. In the earliest stage of the disease, if the urine (and preferably the morning urine, for reasons which have been explained) be passed into a conical urine-glass, it will be noticed that floating in the clear fluid there are a few gelatinous thread-like bodies, wliich, if examined under the microscope, are seen to be com- posed of pus and epithelial cells held together by mucin. They are formed by the urinary stream detacliing and rolling up the thin tenacious secretion produced by the inflamed mucous membrane. These filaments are known as " urethral threads." As the disease advances, the urine will no longer appear clear, but cloudy, from the presence of mucus. The cloudiness then gives place to a milky turbidity, due to the increasing number of pus cells present. If the urine be allowed to stand a few minutes the pus cells will sink to the bottom of the glass, forming a thick creamy sedi- ment, over wliich will be seen a light cloudy deposit of mucus. In the further progress of the disease the layer of pus increases in amount, wliile the mucus diminishes. When the disease has reached its acme, little but pus is seen. As it abates, all these conditions are reproduced in an inverse order. First the pus layer gradually diminishes in quantity, the mucus proportionately increasing ; the mucus then dis- appears, and in the clear urine the urethral threads are seen floating ; finally, these disappear, and the disease is at an end. Much useful information may be obtained from a careful micro- scopical examination of the secretion, apart from the question as to the presence or absence of the gonococcus. If the secretion be examined in the earliest stages of the disease, it will be noticed that the principal cells present, in addition to leucocytes, are large squamous epithelial cells ; gonococci are numerous, either free or sometimes in the cells (Fig. 204). As the inflammation increases in severity, the leucocytes and gonococci become more and more numerous, the epithelial cells being less frequently seen. The pus cells then become crowded with the cocci. When the acme of the disease is passed and the pus changes to a muco-piirulent secretion, it will be found