INFLAMMATION 130 5. Inflammation affecting mucous surfaces.—The types of inflammation afEecting mucous surfaces, or affecting sur- faces lined with secreting epithelial cells, are most conveniently dealt with under the subheadings of Membranous and Catarrhal Inflam- mations (see below). There are, however, common characteristics of the-e two types, as they affect mucous surfaces, to which reference must be made. The hypersemia, the transudation of serum, the emigration of leuco- cytes, all occur in the submucous tissues, but they are more or less confined to those tissues by the definite basement membrane. The mucous cells are stimulated to produce increased amounts of mucin, and thus the discharge is mucinous rather than fibrinous. Many of the mucous cells, partly as a result of the toxins, and partly as a result of over-stimulation, undergo degenerative changes. If the inflammation is only moderate in intensity, the mucin will be abundant, the cast-off (catarrhal) cells and the leucocytes relatively scanty (catarrJial inflammation) ; but if, on the other hand, tlie reaction is intense, there is necrosis and death of the miicous cells and the pro- duction of a distinct membrane composed of these cells, of leucocytes, and of fibrin (membranous inflammation). (a) Membranous inflammation.—This term is applied to cases in which, as a result of the inflammatory changes, there is formed a definite membranous structure. This membrane, or, more correctly, false membrane, is composed of the inflammatory exudate and necrotic tissue, and occurs especially on mucous surfaces—e.g. the throat, the intestines, the bladder—but it may also be found on superficial wounds. The causal irritant is either in or on the superficial layers of the affected tissue. The vessels show marked engorgement, the transudation of lymph and leucocytes is considerable, and the exu- date forms a coagulum with the superficial cell-layers which have become necrotic. The membrane is at first more or less adherent to the deeper tissues, but by constant accumulations of leucocytes in the deeper parts it becomes gradually separated. Adami states that " where there exists a well-formed basement membrane the diffusion inwards of toxins is arrested to a con.siderable degree, only the surface epithelial layer undergoing necrosis and being cast off." The term difhtheritic is often applied to this form of inflamma- tion, but, as many of the cases are not in any way related to the organism of diphtheria, the term membranous is, in my judgment, much to be preferred. (h) Catarrhal inflammation.—The essential changes in this form of inflammation are proliferation, desquamation, and degenera- tion of the epithelial secreting cells, the proliferative changes being in