SURGICAL CLEANLINESS 25 with special diseased conditions of the mouth and nasal cavities, as, for example, those associated with rhinoscleronia, and fetid oz;ena. The actual substance of the tissues and organs of the body is normally sterile, as are also the urinary and genital passages, except in the neigh- bourhood of their external openings (e.g. penile urethra and vagina). From the surgical standpoint it is important to remember that though the surface of the skin ma}'', and indeed must always, be most carefully cleansed before any operation, it is impossible to maintain it in an absolutely sterile condition, since the glands and ducts harl)our large numbers of micro-organisms which cannot be removed. These may be rendered active if the skin be unduly irritated in the process of preparation, or bruised in the course of the operative procedures. For the same reason the surgeon's hands, which may be absolutely sterile (on the surface) at the beginning of an operation, will cea'-e to be so when his manipulations have brought out the secretions present in his sudatory and sebaceous glands. As a rule the micro-organisms thus conveyed into the wound are of comparatively slight importance owing to their low virulence, but their presence probably explains tlie occurrence of the mild suppurations which are sometimes seen even after operations conducted under the most favourable conditions. In the case more especially of the less virulent bacteria the number present is a factor of very great importance in determining the pro- duction of suppurative inflammation. On this account, although it is impossible entirely to cleanse such sites of operation as the mouth, or nose, or the intestinal tract, yet it is desirable before operation in these regions, to reduce the number of micro-organisms pre-ent, so far as possible, by non-irritating methods. In the case of the intestine, for example, it is possible by combining large doses of bismuth salicylate with the usual aperient and enema, and giving only sterilized soft food for a couple of days, so far to cleanse the intestinal tract that the danger of peritoneal infection is enormously reduced. C. PATHOGENETIC ACTION OF BACTERIA 1. MODES OF INVASION Except in the relatively infrequent cases where, either as the result "of accident or from the bites of insects, infective micro-organisms are introduced directly into the blood-stream, infection always begins as a localized phenomenon, and leads to the production of a more or less distinct and definite local inflammation. Subsequent spread may lead to the dissemination of the infective agent through the body, with the production of general disturbances and the formation of secondary foci of infection. Or, apart from the spread of the micro-organisms