844 COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRHCEA painful emission of sanguineous and purulent seminal fluid, which leaves grey spots on the linen, surrounded by a yellow or brown ring. Apart from this, the symptoms are not very characteristic, and are common to acute posterior urethritis and prostatic abscess, viz. fre- quent painful micturition, with much bladder and rectal tenesmus, and a feeling of the presence of a foreign body in the rectum, also increased sexual excitability, accompanied by priapism and the above- mentioned seminal emissions. On examination per rectum, a tender, fluctuating, sausage-like swelling can be felt above the prostate in the situation of the vesicle. Pressure on the swelling expresses per urethram a mixture of pus and semen, which, when microscopically examined, shows the presence of spermatozoa, leucocytes, and gonococci, and often of other septic organisms. On this examination the diagnosis- of acute spermato-cystitis rests. 2. Chronic Catarrhal Spermato-Cystitis Tliis condition, again, can hardly ever be diagnosed by the sub- jective symptoms alone, as they are merely those of chronic posterior urethritis. Nor does a simple digital examination of the rectum afford much help, as the vesiculse are seldom markedly indurated or enlarged. The diagnosis is made or excluded by the careful micro- scopic examination of the expressed contents of the vesiculse. Treatment.—The treatment of spermato-cystitis, whether in the acute or the chronic condition, is almost identical with that of prostatitis in the corresponding stage. Thus, the acute condition is- treated by rest in bed, light diet, and gentle purgation. The urine is kept acid and antiseptic by the internal administration of such drugs as sahcylate of soda or salol. The painful bladder and rectal tenesmus is relieved by hot-water enemas and sitz-baths, and by the use of belladonna suppositories. Should an abscess form, it must be freely opened, preferably from the perineum, by a pararectal incision. In the subacute and chronic stages, the massage of the vesiculaa and prostate two or three times a week is indicated, to be followed by urethral irrigation, with mild antiseptic and astringent solutions. Later, iodide of potassium or ichthyol suppositories may be used ta promote absorption of the inflammatory induration. CYSTITIS When the inflammation spreads to the posterior portion of the urethra it does not stop abruptly at the vesical sphincter, but to some extent affects the lowest portion, or so-called neck, of the bladder. In consequence many authors prefer to call posterior urethritis " urethro- cystitis." Such an inflammation of the bladder is, as we have seen.