863 GRANULOMA OF THE PUDENDA Examiuation of tlie discharge may disclose the presence of small granules, which on microscopic examination are found to have the typical appearance of a " ray fungus." If these granules are not found, fragments of the strejDtothrix are usually to be discovered in the fluid. The prognosis as regards life is favourable. Spontaneous recovery or recovery imder medical treatment never takes place. Treatment.—Local measures, whether these consist of anti- septics, escharotics, or excision of the obviously diseased tissues or resections of joints, are useless. Amputation of the part of the limb affected, a few inches above the obviously diseased ^^art, is the only treatment. The earlier it is performed the better, and no recurrence in the stump or elsewhere is to be feared. Potassium iodide, even in large doses, has not been found of any value. GRANULOMA OF THE PUDENDA Synonyms.—Serpiginous ulceration of the genitalia (MacLeod) ; ulcerating granuloma of the pudenda (Galloway) ; sclerosing granu- loma of the pudenda (Daniels and Powell). Locally, in the West Indies, the affection is known as " groin ulceration." Geographical distribution.—This disease occurs in India, West Africa, British Guiana, and some of the West India Islands, whilst a similar disease, possibly the same, occurs in Northern Australia and Polynesia. Pathology.—The growth is a chronic vascular granuloma with a s^^ecial tendency to cause a deep formation of dense, fibrous tissue which is highly contractile. There is no tendency to suppuration, caseation, or any degeneration other than fibrosis. In section, the growths are seen to be very vascular and to lie upon a base of very dense, almost cartilaginous, fibrous tissue. The ej^i- thelial covering is mainly retained, but is devoid of pigment and soft and transparent, so that the red colour of the vascular granuloma can be seen through it. Microscopically, the growth is a typical vas- cular granuloma, mainly composed of round mononuclear cells with a relatively large nucleus. The vessels are much dilated and distended with blood. The epidermis overling the growth, when intact, is thick- ened, the distinction between the different layers is lost, and there is little or no keratinization ; there is no formation of the stratum cor- neum. The papillje are usually enlarged. The hair-follicles and sweat- glands are ultimately destroyed, but in the early stages the growth is more extensive and deeper round them. In a coloured person, at the edges of the growth there is an irregular dej^osit of pigment, but in the older parts no pigment is found. The dense subjacent fibrous tissue usually contains islets of active granulomatous material.