451 PAPILLOMA in adults. The favourite site is the vocal cords, but when multiple they may grow also on the ventricular bands, laryngeal surface of the epiglottis, and upper part of the trachea. A dangerous degree of obstruction may result. Papilloma of the intestine is rare, except in the rectum. In several recorded cases multiple papillomas of tlie intestine have occasioned hfemorrhage from the bowel. In the rectum (Fig. 101) a papilloma may reach a large size, forming a tumour which resembles the flower of a chrysanthemum; and although at first the growth is probably always sessile, it tends gradually to become more and more pedunculated, so that eventually it may be extruded from the anus during the expulsive efforts of the bowel. Papil- loma of the rectum is more common in women than in men. The j)^rill''3 com- posing the tumour are covered with columnar epithelium cells, amongst which goblet cells are often present, and the central part of the tumour may present a structure resem- pig.' 104.—Papilloma of rectum. The tumour bling that of an is very lobulated and the surface composed adenoma. of delicate villous processes. Papilloma may occur on the mucous membrane of any part of the urimnj tract —calyces and pelvis of the kidney, ureter, and bladder. In the bladder, papilloma is the most common simple tumour, and, as elsewhere, may be single or multiple. When single, the tumour is usually pedunculated, and its favourite site is the neighbourhood of the ureteric orifices (Fig. 105). When multiple, the tumours are usually sessile and form small tufts, which in some cases are thickly scattered over all parts of the bladder wall. The delicate structure of these villous tumours and their vascularity explain the hremor- rhage which so readily occurs from them, especially when they are squeezed by the contracting bladder wall. Apart from their i-ecog- nition by cystoscopic examination, small fragments of the villous processes of the tumours can sometimes be demonstrated in tlie urine with the microscope. Similar villous tumours occurring in the pelvis of the kidneij are an