213 GANGRENE DUE TO EMBOLISM portion or the whole of it will die. As there is no obstruction to the return of venous blood, the gangrene is usually of the dry variety. If drainage of the blood in the necrotic area be defective, however, the skin becomes dusky red, bullfe form on the surface, and the changes wliich cliaracterize moist gangrene follow rapidly. This may remain aseptic throughout, but if the embolus has been formed by an infective vegetation in the first instance, or if, as is only too probable, bacteria should gain access from without, signs of putrefaction will develop quickly. Treatment.—Tlie limb must be thorouglily cleansed, enveloped in sterilized wool and bandages, and elevated as soon as possible. By the employment of two or three pillows for the latter purpose, warmth is maintained and pressure evenly distributed. The extent of the gangrene will be evident in two or three days. As a rule, a con- siderable portion of the limb below the embolus will recover ; hence it is always advisable to wait for at least forty-eight hours before adopting radical measures. As there is no necessity to wait for a line of separation unless the toes alone are affected, amputation should be performed as soon as the limit of the gangrene is defined. The site will be determined by the anatomy of the vessels and the extent of the collateral circulation. Generally speaking, when gangrene is due to embolism or thrombosis, the section of the limb should be made above the seat of obstruction. This applies especially to the popliteal artery, for the anastomosis between the profunda femoris, the anastomotica magna, and the tibial arteries is rarely sufficient to nourish the tissues below the knee. In cases of femoral embolism, amputation below the block may be attempted ; but if during the operation there be but little ha?mor- rhage, a higher amputation must be performed immediately. When embolism is followed by moist gangrene, immediate amputation above the seat of obstruction is always indicated. 3. Gangrene due to thrombosis.—Thrombosis may occur either in an artery or in a vein, or simultaneously in both. Arterial thrombosis is generally due to disease, especially endar- teritis, atheroma, and acute arteritis. It usually follows injury when the tunica intima is bruised or torn, and always accompanies embolism. In various infective and wasting diseases, such as typhoid, tyj)hus, puerperal, and scarlet fevers, iDneumonia, and acute rheumatism, arterial thrombosis, with or without venous thrombosis, has been the fore- runner of gangrene. In many instances it is suggested that embolism of the vasa vasorum leads to endarteritis and its resulting thrombosis. The vessels most often affected are, in the order of frequency, the aorta, the femoral, the popliteal, and the common iliac arteries. Venous thromhosis alone is rarely the cause of gangrene, even when