SARCOMA carcinomatous or sarcomatous tumours by X-rays or radium is not in many cases conclusive, but there is a large accumulation of evidence to show that even large tumours may shrink and apparently disappear, that pain may be. relieved, and that ulcerated surfaces may heal and discharges correspondingly diminish. The clianges which have been observed microscopically in tumours exjiosed to the action of radium consist in degeneration of the tumour cell-elements, and a proliferation of the connective tissue which results eventually in the formation of a cicatrix. On the other hand, it is jiossible that if an insufficient effect is obtained an accelerated growth of the tumour cells may result from the vascular dilatation which is produced. Unfortunately, in the majority of cases of malignant disease it is the presence of metastases which renders the condition inoperable, and for the treatment of these the use of radium can only be of very limited service. Further experience alone can show whether larger quantities of radium than tliose now usually available will produce better results even in deeply seated growths. SARCOMA A sarcoma is a malignant connective-tissue tumour. Although differing widely in the details of their minute structure, the sarcomas all consist of cells of the connective-tissue type, and these cells may be of a single uniform shape, or the same tumour may consist of cells of different kinds. The sarcoma cells present forms which find their prototypes in the various phases of change which undifferentiated round cells undergo in their development into fully formed connec- tive tissue. Thus the cells may be round, oval, or spindle in sliape, and, as in all rapidly growing cellular formations, multi- nucleated cells are not micommon. The cells of a sarcoma do not lie in actual juxtaposition, but are separated by a varying amount of ground substance, which may be homogeneous, granular, or fibrillated. The blood-vessels in a sarcoma are usually abundant, and are embryonic in character, partaking rather of the nature of blood clefts and spaces than actual vessels. They present the characters of the blood-vessels in the process of development, consisting of channels surrounded by cells which may resemble delicate endo- thelium, or may be indistinguishable from the essential tumour cells themselves. For instance, in the spindle-celled variety the vascular spaces may be bounded merely by spindle cells arranged end to end in immediate juxtaposition with the surrounding spindles of the tumour. A further point of importance in the vascular an'angemeut 2f