LIFE CONDITIONS OF BACTERIA 13 be applied for about three-quarters of an liour, to ensure tlie destruc- tion of resistant spores. Boiling, tlien, is more effective than hot air at the same temjaerature, and an exposure to boiling water for half an hour is sufficient to kill off not only all vegetative forms of bacterial life, but also the majority of spores. Some spores, however—for example, many which are commonly present in the soil—can withstand several hours of boiling. The addition of various salts, which raise the boiling point, naturally renders the action'of boiling water more effective. This is important in the case of instruments and metal apparatus, where the addition of sodium biborate (or sodium bicarbonate), for example, not only ensures more certain sterilization, but at the same time possesses the advantage of jareserving the metal from rust. Where water cannot be employed, heating in oil or glycerine is often used. But here it must be remembered that in the absence of water the effect obtained will be no more than if the organisms had been heated in dry air for the same length of time. Steam, owing to its greater penetrating power and more rapid conveyance of heat, is a more efficient agent than boiling water for bacterial destruction, and when pure steam is apj^lied under in- creased pressure (as in an autoclave) very rapid effects are obtained. Thus, while certain spores can withstand the action of steam at ordinary pressure for some hours, they are killed in a few minutes by steam at 120" G. (2 atmospheres pressure). (c) Other physical conditions.—Under this heading are included the effects of radiant energy, electricity, and atmospheric pressure. (1) Radiant energy—ligld.—To bacteria in general, light is not only not essential, but in most cases is extremely harmful. Whether its presence is necessary to any bacterial forms is still in doubt. The destructive action of light upon bacterial life varies with its intensity and quality. Thus, while ordinary dift'used daylight acts comparatively slowly, direct sunlight and strong artificial light (tlie electric arc) are rapidly destructive even when they have been entirely freed from heat rays. It is especially the rays of shorter wave-length at the blue- violet end of the spectrum which exhibit great bactericidal action, while the longer rays (yellow, orange, and red) have very little, if any, action. As in the case of heat, the rate of action of light is dependent also on the presence or absence of moisture, and on the general composition of the medium. In illustration of the enormous power of intense light it may be mentioned that the B. prodigiosus exposed in a drop of fluid to a cooled arc light concentrated by quartz lenses is killed within about one second. Rontgen rays and radium emanations both exhibit destructive action on bacteria under experimental conditions. It must, however,