SECOND INJECTIONS 703 tions, thus causing a partial vacuum which must be met by a slight upward flow of the thecal contents. This will only assist to a trifling extent. 2. The force of gravity may be utilized by increasing the declina- tion of the head end of the table. This may help if done within the first ten minutes or so from the time of injection. 3. A vis a tergo may be created l)y injecting a heavy and inert solution, or by giving a second injection of the analgesic. The third method is the only practical one where some time has elapsed. A simple solution of glucose may be used if it is tiiought unwise to give more of the analgesic, and will at times result in the original solution being carried to a higher level in the theca ; but it is more satisfactory to perform a second injection of the analgesic. Second injections.—There is no objection to a second or even a third injection, if necessary, provided the practice is carefully safe- guarded. The points to be considered are (1) the age of the patient, (2) his condition on the table, (.3) the amount of the original dose, (4) the time which has elapsed since tiie first injection, and (0) the probable duration of the operation. If after injection 710 analgesia results it is certain that none of the solution has entered the theca. The original dose may then be repeated. In young subjects it is well to use only one-third the original dose, since it is found that in them second doses are more rapidly eft'ectual than in adults, and, case for case, produce a more rapid and higher rise on a proportionately smaller dose. In the case of adults, in whom the ordinary dose is 6 eg. (stovaine), insufficient rise from the first may be met by an additional dose of half the original quantity. If some tune has elapsed since the initial injection and the patient shows no toxic symptoms, the dose may be two-thirds the original amount. If the analgesia is no higher than the groins, the original amount may be repeated with safety. Each case must be judged on its merits. The needle and cannula must never be left in situ to provide against a second injection ; the practice, although advocated by some surgeons, is as needless as it is dangerous. It is easy to cover the wound, roll the patient over, and give a second injection during operation. Use of general anaesthesia with spinal analgesia.— It may happen that towards the end of an operation, especially in abdominal section, some dragging pain, or the insertion of sutures, may be felt. In such cases it may l)e hardly worth while to repeat the injection, and tlie difticultv may be met by the administration of a