678 GENERAL ANESTHESIA should not be embarrassed. Usually, therefore, the patient must be placed, so far as the operation permits, upon the affected side. By drawing him well to the edge of the table, so that his ribs almost over- hang it, the surgeon can generally get at the required spot. In opera- tions for intestinal obstruction one shoulder should be raised upon a sand-bag and the head turned to the opposite side with the mouth slightly opened.' If any quiet regurgitation of the fluid takes place, as is not uncommon in these cases, it will then escape ; in the dorsal position there is great danger of inhalation when such fluid suddenly floods the mouth and nose. The Trendelenburg position, with pelvis raised and head and shoulders low, is often adopted for pelvic operations, and by some for tongue cases. It is a very safe position from the anaesthetist's point of view, and one in which chloroform is generally much to be preferred to ether. In all positions the anaesthetist should see that there is no risk of paralysis of any muscle or limb from undue pressure against the hard edge of the table or from the over-stretching of nerve trunks. PEEPAEATION OF PATIENT FOE, AND TEEATMENT OF AFTEE, ANAESTHESIA In the case of nitrous-oxide no preparation is necessary, but the last meal should have been taken at least two hours before the inhala- tion, and the bladder should be emptied. In the case of all other anaesthetics it is advisable that the administration take place at least four hours after the last taking of food. A purge thirty-six hours and an enema two or three hours before administration is the usual practice. Some persons, however, are much upset, even to faint- ing, by enemata, which therefore should be omitted in such cases. In the case of infants an operation should be performed at an hour that normally would be feeding-time. At the next feeding-time half the ordinary food is allowed. In an operation involving a considerable period in bed afterwards, it is well that two or three days be spent in bed beforehand. The patient gets accustomed to nursing routine, and also to lying quietly. Before many abdominal operations careful choice and restriction of diet are of advantage, as well as systematic cleansing of the mouth and pharynx with mild antiseptics. After these operations, as a rule, the minimum amount of food should be taken by the mouth during the first twenty-four hours. Small quan- tities of tepid water are allowed after four hours, and a cup of weak tea after eight hours. Enemata of one pint of normal saline solution are given slowly every six hours. After-sickness may sometimes be obviated by the addition of 10 grains of aspirin to the first saline enema, aided by the adop-