CHRONIC ABSCESS 199 pus, or, with better cliance of success, in tlie abscess wall. When it is impossible to stain the bacillus, guinea-pigs should be inoculated. There are other methods which should reinforce the diagnosis made by ordinary clinical and bacteriological observation, especially in cases which still remain doubtful. The three methods to be taken into consideration are tuberculin reaction, the opsonic index, and estimation of leucocytes in the blood. Tuhercidin may be employed in one of three ways—by subcutaneous injection, by the skin-reaction (von Pirquet), or by the conjunctival reaction (Calmette). The best and safest method is probably sub- cutaneous injection. They all depend mainly upon the local inflam- mation, accompanied by a general feeling of malaise, which results in cases where tuberculosis is present ; in the cases in which there is no tuberculosis there is an absence of local and constitutional disturbance. The opsonic index may be of value in one of four methods of application :— 1. By taking a specimen of the patient's blood and estimating its opsonic index without special preliminary treatment. 2. By taking the opsonic index after massage of the diseased area. 3. By examining the opsonic index after giving an injection of tuberculin. 4. By consideration of the opsonic index in conjunction with an estimation of the leucocytic contents of the blood. A high or a low opsonic index is an indication of tuberculosis ; when either is accompanied by an absence of leucocytosis and a diminution or absence of eosinophile leucocytes, the diagnosis of tuberculosis Ijecomes surer than when either is considered alone. It must be remembered that there is no leucocytosis in infections of B. typhosus. Treatment. Local.—If it be possible to excise a tuberculous abscess, that is the best treatment. When a tuberculous abscess is connected with bone, say a rib, the aiJected portion of the rib should be removed with the abscess. If the abscess be accessible but its complete excision impossible, then it will be wise to excise as much of the tuber- culous tissue as possible after the pus has been evacuated. The advisa- bility of drainage in a case of this kind is ojjen to question. If drainage be not employed, the abscess is liable to re-form; if drainage be employed, the tube will act as a mechanical irritant and also as a pathway for other micro-organisms, and a deplorable mixture of infective processes will complicate what was before a pure infection of B. tuberculosis. I believe the best form of treatment in this kind of case is either to sew up the wound entirely, or to leave the incision open, not inserting stitches or drainage-tubes, and simply to dress the wound with the utmost antiseptic care. Should it be considered advisable to scrape a