555 RENAL CARCINOMA inguinal glands, and in all cases subjected to operation tlie glands should be removed from both groins. Carcinoma of the kidney and ureter.—Primary car- cinoma of the renal substance is rare. It may assume a diffuse form in which the organ, still retaining the normal shape, may reach a large size, or it may present itself as a localized tumour of the Iddney substance. In the diffuse variety the growth may have a tubular structure, the epithelium being cubical, but in the localized form the structure is usually that of carcinoma simplex. In carcinoma arising from the calyces the tumour, whilst infiltrating the kidne}^ may show on section cavities in its substance representing the lumiua of the calyces, and in these cavities calculi may be present. Renal carcinoma sometimes shows a marked tendency to invade the lumen of the renal vein, and thus may even reach and distend the vena cava. Secondary deposits may occur in the aortic glands and metastases by way of the blood-stream. |j Although a cancer of the kidney may reach a considerable size Avhile still retained within the renal capsule, the growth tends sooner or later to extend to the surroimding structures, and thus, for instance, the colon may be involved. Carcinoma occasionally arises primarily in the mucous membrane of the renal pelvis arid very rarely in the ureter. The growth may present itself as a thickening of the wall or as a papillary growth pro- jecting into the lumen. In either form the structure is usually that of a squamous-celled carcinoma, although the tendency to form cell- nests is not well marked. As a result of the obstruction caused by the tumour, hydroneplirosis may occur. Carcinoma of the adrenal.—In addition to the malignant hypernephromas already described (p. 439), the suprarenal body is occasionally the seat of a carcinomatous growth having the structure of a carcinoma simplex, and supposed to arise in the medulla of the gland. The tumour produces metastases in the lymphatic glands about the aorta, and may extend thence to the posterior mediastinum, and even to the glands of the neck. Carcinoma of the urinary bladder.—Carcinoma is more common than any other form of tumour in the bladder. It usually retains, to a varying extent, the stratified character of the normal epithelium (Fig. 150), and in some tumours cell-nests are large and numerous. Little is known of any precancerous conditions in the bladder, but it is interesting that the disease has been observed in aniline workers, and also that in regions in which bilharzial disease is endemic carcinoma of the bladder may occur in conjunction with it. The association of carcinoma of the bladder with calculus is very rare. The tumour is met with sometimes as a characteristic carcino-