X-RAY EXAMINATION 646 a localized empyema is of great importance from the point of view of the treatment of this disease. Radiographically, empyemas appear as homogeneous opaque areas of a size dependent upon the quantity of fluid they contain, and their position can usually be ascertained by deduction. Suppurative pericarditis.—This disease, which may be con- fused with empyema, and more especially with localized empyema, pre- sents on X-ray examination an appearance which is so characteristic that it is easily recognized, and thus its surgical treatment may be undertaken without delay. Plate 66, Fig. 3, shows an example of suppurative pericarditis. The normal shadow cast by the heart is enormously increased in size, the increase being towards both the right and left and in an upward direction, resulting in the production of an almost spherical shape. It can also be noticed that the mar- gins of the opacity are exceedingly sharp, which is not the case with shadows cast by the heart alone, on account of its movements during the time of exposure. Abscess of the lung.—It is obvious from what has already been shown that the presence of a collection of fluid in any quantity in the substance of the lung, such as would be present in abscess, can always be discovered by X-ray examination, provided it does not lie in such a position as to be obscured by the greater opacity of the heart or large vessels. Hydatid cysts of the lung occurring in the substance of the lung appear as areas of increased opacity, rounded and clear-cut in outline. This appearance, which is highly suggestive of their presence, enables their size and position to be ascertained without trouble. Subphrenic abscess.—-It is obviously possible to distinguish by X-ray examination the difEerence between purulent fluid situated in the pleura and a collection of pus below the diaphragm. In the case of intrapleural pus, the outline of the diaphragm becomes ob- scured, and should it be seen it would be fixed in the position of in- spiration. On the other hand, pus present outside the pleura, beneath the diaphragm, does not in any way obscure the outline of the latter, which can be observed to be fixed in the position of expiration. In fact, in the first case, the intrapleural pressure tends to depress the diaphragm, while, in the second, the increased pressure beneath the dia- phragm tends to push it higli up in the chest. Tropical abscess of the liver.—The diagnosis of the presence of liver abscess is very materially assisted by X-ray investigation. Fortunately, the upper surface of the liver is the situation in which these abscesses most commonly occur. In this situation they produce an X-ray appearance similar to that of subdiaphragmatic abscess