TUMOURS 548 chiefly in the submucous tissue, often especially along the curvatures, and tends to invade the lymphatic glands which lie in the small omentum and along the right half of the great curvature between the layers of the great omentum. A consideration of the mode of spread of carcinoma of the pylorus shows that in the removal of the disease by operation the duodenum may safely be divided a short distance from the growth, but that in the stomach the section must be made in such a way as to include the whole length of the small curvature and a corresponding part of the great curvature, whilst, in dividing the omenta attached to the portion of stomach removed, the section must be so planned as to remove the glands along the two curvatures. Among the rarer forms assumed by carcinoma of the stomach is that in which the disease, usually beginning in the region of the pylorus, gradually involves a large part of the organ by extension along the submucous coat, producing a condition of general contraction and thickening which presents itself as one form of " leather-bottle stomach." In the fungating form of the disease an irregularly globular or cauliflower-like mass of growth may project into the cavity of the stomach, or the tumour may involve a considerable area in the form of a less prominent, irregularly excavated mass. An ulcerated carcinoma is less likely than a simple ulcer to lead to perforation, and erosion of a large vessel is relatively rare. When the fungating tumour is of the more highly specialized columnar- celled type the tendency to invasion of the lymph-glands is much less than in the case of tumours of the undifferentiated structure. In advanced cases of carcinoma of the stomach various extensions of the disease may occur. Thus, secondary deposits in the Uver may occur by way of the portal circulation or from the portal lymphatic glands ; the left supraclavicular glands may be invaded by way of the thoracic duct; extensive peritoneal infection may occur by lymphatic permeation, causing diffuse tliickening ; while sometimes the pelvic viscera, especially one or both ovaries, may be involved. This occurrence of secondary deposits in the pelvis may lead to mistakes in diagnosis, as, for instance, if the ovaries are involved wliile the tumour of the stomach is still unproductive of marked symptoms, and as in a case under the care of Bilton Pollard in wlaich infiltration of the peritoneum of the recto-vesical pouch led to the diagnosis of primary carcinoma of the prostate. Carcinoma of the liver.—Primary cancer of the liver is rare, whereas secondary deposits, especially when the primary growth is situated in the area drained by the portal vein, are very common. Primary carcinoma may originate in the Uver cells, or in the intra- hepatic biliary passages. In the first variety the tumour has the structure of carcinoma simplex, whilst in the other it usually retains