326 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES and in other septic conditions within the abdomen, besides the septic absorption that occurs there is also the intense irritation of the sympathetic nerve processes by the inflammatory lesion, and it is the over-stimulation of these nerves that produces the shock, and not necessarily the absorption of septic products. In acute spread- ing septic conditions, such as malignant oedema, shock is not manifest, although in the later stages of the disease there is cardiac failure and many of the clinical phenomena of shock are present. The heart- failure in these cases depends at least as much on the weakness of the heart muscle as on disturbance of the central nervous system. Shock is essentially a temporary condition, a step towards death, which is capable of being arrested and which may pass off so completely in a few hours that the patient may show no signs that he has ever been through it, although equally in a few hours it may end in death. Sepsis, on the other hand, causes changes throughout the whole of the body, and recovery will take weeks or months. PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY The pathological anatomy of shock has been the subject of much controversy, especially as to the condition of the cerebral circulation. Some writers have found constriction of the blood-vessels and an ansemic brain, others dilatation of the vessels and a congested brain, and the difference in the post-mortem appearances seems to depend on whether the skull or the abdomen and thorax be opened first. The conditions observed in the human subject during life and in experiments on animals all tend to show that in shock there is a dilatation of the vessels on the venous side with congestion of the blood in them, especially in the veins of the abdomen, but also in the veins of the thorax and lungs and in the sinuses of the dura mater. With this venous engorgement there is a corresponding emptiness of the arterial system and a peripheral ansemia, shown by the coolness of the skin. The blood is banked up in the venous system, the right side of the heart is dilated, and the blood cannot get from the great veins into the auricles. The effect is much the same as that due to a severe haemorrhage, the blood in the splanchnic area being tem- porarily lost to the circulation or, as it has been expressed, " the patient has bled into his abdominal veins."' This apparent loss of blood, with possibility of speedy recovery, accounts for the rapid recovery in many cases of shock. Whilst the veins are dilated and engorged with blood, exudation of serum occurs through their walls, and this exudation is increased if saline fluid is injected into the venous system. Experimental work on animals and clinical investigation in man