CARCINOMA OF THE JAWS 539 the periosteum, tends at an early stage to involve the bone. In some cases, especially on the gums, the disease assumes a warty form, and is apt to be mistaken for a simple papilloma. In otlier cases the growth begins as an ulcer and, as it advances, causes loosening of the teeth, and exposure or even necrosis of part of the alveolus. The condition may thus simulate simple necro.sis, the fungating masses of the ulcerating growth being mistaken for the prominent granulations around a sequestrum. Carcinoma does not often begin in the mucous membrane of the liard palate, but is very serious on account of its liability to invade the antrum and thence to extend in a manner similar to a tumour beginning primarily in that cavity. 2. Carcinoma of the antrum presents considerable variations in its histological structure, dependent probably in part upon whether it arises in the columnar epithelium of tlie surface of the mucous membrane, or in the mucous glands. In some recorded cases the tumour assumes a papillary form, and has tlie structure of a columnar- celled carcinoma, but more often it occurs as a soft, solid tumour indistinguishable with the naked eye from the sarcomatous tumours which also arise in this situation. Tumours of this form vary in their minute structure, sometimes having that of a carcinoma simplex, whilst in others the alveoli present a lumen surrounded by several layers of spheroidal or polyhedral cells (tubular carcinoma. Fig. 143), or by cells having a more or less columnar shape. A carcinoma of the antrum may fill the cavity without producing much external evidence of the serious nature of the disease. Later it tends to penetrate the bony walls of the cavity, encroaching upon the cheek, orbit, nasal cavity, or mouth, or projecting backwards into the naso-pharynx or pterygo-maxillary region. Extension of the disease in the last-mentioned direction is imfortunately sometimes discovered during operation upon a case regarded as favourable for complete removal. 3. A very unusual form of epithelial tumour (jccurs in tlie jaws, more commonly the mandible, as the so-called " mutilocular cystic disease." As met with in the mandible, the tumour presents itself as a central growth which gradually expands a considerable part of the body and often the ramus of the jaw into a thin, irregular, bony shell. The tumour itself, as the name implies, is composed of a number of cysts mixed with a variable amount of solid tissue. Sometimes the solid growth forms the bulk of the tumour, which has then the macroscopic characters of a fibrous tumour in which the cysts may scarcely be visible, whilst in other cases the tumour is composed almost entirely of a mass of cysts of considerable size and containing a clear or grumous fluid. The expanded bone of the mandible, especially of the outer table, is often so thinned as to give the wejl-known sensation