6i6 THE CEREBRO-SPINAL FLUID EXAMINATION OF THE CEREBRO-SPINAL FLUID Although the examination of the cerebro-spinal fluid as a valuable means of diagnosis is now sufficiently established, it must, like all laboratory methods, be used only to supplement and not to supplant the ordinary clinical investigation of the patient. Thus, the presence of a great excess of lymphocytes in cerebro-spinal fluid does not of itself help us very far in our diagnosis, but in conjunction with the clinical history and clinical examination it may definitely confirm an otherwise doubtful diagnosis of tuberculous meningitis. In amount the cerebro-spinal fluid has considerable variations, and is relatively most abundant in the first years of life. From 10 to 15 c.c. can usually be easily obtained in health, and in most patho- logical conditions there is an increase up to as much as 100 c.c. Normally the fluid resembles distilled water in colour, though there may be a slight cloudiness or even a faint yellowish colour. In pathological conditions the fluid drawn off may consist of almost pure blood, or it may be bile-stained in cases of jaundice, turbid from the presence of inflammatory cells, or even distinctly purulent. No changes of diagnostic importance have been observed either in its reaction or in its specific gravity in pathological conditions. The reaction is normally alkaline and the specific gravity 1006-1010. In its normal condition it is practically free from morphological elements, contains a small quantity of protein, and about 0"1 per cent, of glucose, or, at any rate, of a reducing body resembling glucose. In patho- logical conditions the albumin-content may be considerably increased and the reducing agent may show considerable variation in amount, being absent, according to some observers, in tuberculous and in epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis. Urea is present, but no patho- logical significance can be attached to it. Cholin is present normally in very small amount, but in pathological conditions, especially those associated with nerve degeneration, it may be considerably increased. The method of determining its presence must be left to special books on the nervous system or text-books of diagnostic methods. Chemical examination has not so far yielded results of much prac- tical importance, at any rate to the surgeon, and usually the examina- tion of the fluid is confined to its cytology and its bacteriology. MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINATION It may be taken as a general rule that the presence of large numbers of polymorphonuclear leucocytes indicates an acute infection of the spinal meninges, whilst a great excess of lymphocytes over the other cells is evidence of a more chronic process.