STERILIZING LOTIONS 263 tages, in that the suppuration is not maintained by the presence of a foreign body, that, if reasonable certainty of disinfection can be obtained, this material should be used. In aseptic cases there seems to be no objection to the use of silk or thread. Many surgeons use catgut for all purposes. LOTIONS Lotions of great variety are in common use by most surgeons during their operations. Between the " aseptic " school, who avoid lotions or use only sterilized water or saline solution, and the " antiseptic " school, who use strong germicides freely, there lies the great body of general surgeons who rely chiefly upon complete sterilization but prefer at the same time to use antiseptic lotions sparingly during their work. A very large number of chemical substances have been introduced into surgical practice in the effort to secure the ideal antiseptic, which shall at the same time be reliably and actively germicidal, non-toxic, non-irritating, penetrating, and sufficiently non-volatile to ensure prolonged action. It should also be a stable compound, even when it is introduced into the tissues, should not combine with albumin, should be freely soluble, and should not stain the skin, clothing, or instruments. Biniodide of mercury in watery solution, and alcohol, are, we believe, the most suitable antiseptics for general operative work. Many other substances, however, such as hydrogen peroxide, iodine, carbolic acid, lysol, and formalin, hold valuable places in sm'gical technique. Biniodide of mercury or potassio-mercuric iodide, perha]3s better even than alcohol, fulfils the essentials of an ideal antiseptic. Its toxicity is small as compared with corrosive sublimate or carbolic. It is a powerful germicide, and as its interaction with albumin is very small, its antiseptic value in the tissues corresponds much more closely to its test-tube efficiency than is the case with corrosive sublimate and many of the other mercurial lotions. Its power of penetration is therefore greater than that of corrosive sublimate, and it is com- paratively non-irritating. Skins which are very sensitive to carbolic acid, lysol, or other coal-tar derivatives, or to corrosive sublimate, will usually tolerate free and prolonged use of biniodide of mercury without irritation. It stains neither the skin nor linen, nor does it discolour or corrode steel instruments imless they have been left in it for some time. The watery solution is more efficient in the tissues as an antiseptic than the more costly alcoholic solution. Alcohol affords a most valuable method of sterilizing the hands, far surpassing that of all other agents" (Lcedham-Grreen). The experiments of various observers have shown that the best germicidal value has been obtained with 70 per cent, dilution of the spirit, used