597 DERMOID CYSTS Intracranial dermoids are rare. According to Bland-Sutton, tliey are usually in the occipital region, and nearly always in relation with the tentorium cerebelli. They have also been found in the brain, sometimes in connexion with the ventricles, and may be multiple. Certain cysts in this situation are very rich in cholesterin, and the name " cholesteatoma " has been applied to them ; and it is probable that whilst some such tumours are true dermoids, others are of endothelial origin, and that the peculiar formations are allied to the concentric bodies found in the psammomas (p. 421). It may here be noted that the name cholesteatoma is also applied to the peculiar laminated masses sometimes found in the tympanum and mastoid antrum, and resulting from a gradual accumulation of epithelial debris and inflammator}^ exudation. Dermoid cysts of the tongue probably owe their origin to inclusion of epithelium at the line of union of the median and lateral tubercles from which the tongue develops (sequestration dermoids), or arise in an unobliterated segment of the thyro-glossal duct or canal of His (tubulo- dermoids). A lingual dermoid may be situated mesially or laterally, and usually presents itself as a tumour in the floor of the mouth, which may also project beneath the jaw. An origin in the thyro-glossal duct is assigned to those cysts which lie deeply in the middle line between the genio-hyoglossi muscles, in the position occupied by the duct as it passes from tiie foramen cfecum at the base of the tongue to the deep aspect of the hyoid bone. An extraordinary example of lingual dermoid is preserved in the Museum of University College Hospital. It was removed by Gray of Bombay, and formed an enormous pro- truding tumour containing two pints of sebaceous matter. Dermoid cysts of the neck may occur in the middle line or laterally. In the middle line tliey arise in connexion with the union of the lateral halves, but when situated laterally they originate from one of the branchial clefts. A branchial dermoid usually presents itself as a deeply seated cyst situated slightly below and behind the angle of the jaw, and its removal may involve an e.xtensive dissection exposing the bifurcation of the carotid artery. The position of such a cyst suggests that it has its origin in the second branchial cleft, which passes from the tonsillar region between the internal and external carotid arteries. In a case of this kind under the care of Godlee, the cyst was mistaken for a softened tuberculous gland, and its nature was only discovered after the cyst had been removed intact. Dermoids of the trunk may occur at any point along the middh^ line, but have most commonly been found over the sternum and at the umbilicus. Over the spine they have been mistaken for spina bifida, or may be associated with it. It has already been pointed out that dermoids of the scrotum must be carefully distinguished from dermoid