1/6 SUPPURATION Gas in an abscess may be present either as a product of the invading micro-organism, e.g. B. maligni cedematis, or as a result of a communi- cation between it and the respii'atory or alimentary tract. These variations in the character of pus are supposed by some to be of value in diagnosis and prognosis ; but no great significance can be attached to them. For instance, pus may be identical in appear- ance, whether it be induced by staphylococci or B. mallei (glanders) or B. pestis (plague). Therefore the most valuable indications can be afforded only by establishing which micro-organism is the cause of the condition. Metabolic 'products.—Apart from the true toxins, pus also contains poisonous products due to micro-organismal metabolism and to leuco- lysis and cytolysis. The solid elements.—Flakes of coagulated material and dead tissues may be suspended in the fluid ; these may necessitate larger openings for their removal by operative procedure. The solid elements consist of bacteria and cells. The most numerous and most representative cells seen in the pus of acute circumscribed and diffuse suppurations are the polynuclear neutrojjhile leucoc}i;es, and at the present time they are regarded as the most important, and, with the endothelial cells, are the most active phagocytes. Other leucocytes appear in pus, notably the lymphocytes, wliich increases in number with the age of the lesion. The coarsely granular eosinophile polynuclear leucocyte, the hyaline mononuclear leucocyte, the coarsely granular basophile mast-cell (Elniich), can all be demonstrated in varying numbers, but they never reach numerical importance. The older the abscess the greater the number of lymphocytes and connective-tissue cells that appear at the margin. Endothelial cells, young connective fibrous-tissue cells, plasma cells, and cells of doubtful origin are also seen in pus. Red blood-corpuscles are seen, and if they are present in large number before the abscess is opened they indicate great intensity of the disease. The proliferation of polynuclear neutrophile leucocytes in the bone-marrow and spleen is increased in suppurative processes. The small mononuclear cells (lymphocytes) are not markedly increased in the blood, even in the more chronic forms of suppuration, in which they are present locally in great numbers ; therefore they are probably of local origin, and, according to Whitfield, they probably arise from endothelial cells. To investigate all the unsettled problems which surround the method by which leucocytes collect in the area of suppuration would be beyond the scope of this article. It is known, however, that the leucocytes, escape from the smaller veins and capillaries, but the