86o LEPROSY due to other nerve lesions wliich also produce wasting of the interossei^ lead to the formation of perforating ulcers, or cause anaesthesia. The maculge can usually be distinguished from various rashes that in appearance may resemble them, such as some syphilides and the rash, in trypanosomiasis, by the anaesthesia (which is not always complete), by the absence of hairs, and by the absence of sweating in the maculae after injection of pilocarpin. Lepra bacilli in these cases are some- times found in the rasal mucus, but their absence does not negative the diagnosis of leprosy. Excision of a portion of the macula and examination of the tissue for the lepra bacilli is of little diagnostic value, as usually they cannot be found in this form of leprosy. Prognosis.—Death occurs after variable periods. In the nodular form the prognosis is less favourable than in the anaesthetic, and death usually ensues in less than ten years after the onset of the disease, though when the disease becomes stationary the patient may live for thirty years or more. Intercurrent diseases, such as dysen- tery, chronic diarrhoea, tuberculosis, pneumonia, and Bright's disease, are the usual causes of death. Or it may occur directly from the infection with the lepra bacillus becoming general and diffuse. In these cases the bacilli may be found in most of the organs, especially the liver, spleen, and testicles. Gangrene—often as a result of injuries to the anaesthetic areas—necrosis, and amyloid degeneration are not infrequent causes of death. Most cases of leprosy improve decidedly when the patients are well fed and well cared for. This is essential, whatever line of treatment may be adopted. Treatment.— Medicinal treatment must not be directed to the visible local lesions. The leprotic tissues are of low vitality. Escharotics and Rontgen rays cause extensive breaking-down of the leprotic tissue and, consequently, extensive ulceration. The infected portions are so rarely limited to the skin that complete destruction is impossible, for the tubercles in the submucosa cannot be destroyed. Such methods of treatment, therefore, substitute an ulcer for a leproma, and cannot extirpate the whole of the disease. Persistent use of Chaulmugra oil in doses of 5-30 minims or more, if the patient can take it, and Gurjun oil have a beneficial effect in many cases. The doses should be steadily increased to the limit of toler- ance. Intramuscular injections of perchloride of mercury in doses of ^ gr. every week have in some cases, particularly in England, had a beneficial result for a time. " Nastin," introduced by Professor Deycke, as far as experiments on a considerable number of patients show, has a decidedly beneficial effect, and, after a variable time, in many cases apparently causes partial disintegration of the bacilli. The treatment is still on trial. Now that the lepra bacillus has been