SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY It is therefore of the very greatest importance in cases of doubtful meningeal symptoms tliat a diagnostic lumbar pvmcture should be carried out, and the fluid carefully examined for bacteria. Gonococcus (Micrococcus gonorrhoeae). — This coccus (Plate 4, Fig. 3) was first described by Neisser in 1879, and was shown by him to be the causal agent of gonorrhoeal infections, whether of the urethra or of the conjimctiva. Pure cultures were first obtained b}^ Bumm on coagulated Imman blood-serum, and tliis observer clearly proved the specificity of the organism by inoculation upon the urethra of man. The micro-organism is a diplococcus very similar in appearance to the Diplococcus intracellularis meningitidis, the single individuals having a bean-shaped outline and being flattened from side to side where they face each other. The pair of cocci measures 0"8-r6 in its long diameter, by 0'6-0'8 /a in width. About one-fifth of the long diameter represents the space between the two members of the diplococcus. The gonococcus is non-motile, and has no flagella, nor does it possess a capsule. It stains well with aqueous solutions of the ordinary basic aniline dyes, especially weak fuchsin, and particularly well with neutral red. An excellent method is to add a little neutral red to a small drop of fresh gonorrhoeal pus upon a slide, and examine wet after placing a cover-glass upon the drop. The intracellular cocci are deeply stained, but the extracellular ones remain practically unstained ; the former are therefore much more readily detected than in dried films even when they are only very few in number. The organism is Gram-negative. It is aerobic, and a facultative anaerobe. It is difiicult to grow, and dies out very rapidly unless transplanted daily. No growth occurs in ordinary bouillon or gelatin, but cultures are readily obtained on solidified human blood-serum, or better on the surface of serum-agar (1 part of serum to 2-3 parts of agar) at 36° C. to 37° C. In 24 hours there appear a number of small colonies about the size of a pin's head, of a light-grey colour, more or less translucent, and of a very slimy and tenacious consistency. The colonies always remain discrete, and never fuse together into a continuous film. As the colonies get older they may assume a slightly yellowish tinge by reflected light, but at this stage the cocci are already for the most part dead. In ascites-bouillon (ascitic fluid 1 part, bouillon 2 parts) growth occurs in the form of a fine wrinkled pellicle with a few flocculi deposited at the foot of the tube, the fluid remaining clear and free from growth. On ordinary agar, cultures can be obtained if the medium is made just definitely alkaline to litmus, but the growth is less copious than on the special media already mentioned.