THE GONOCOCCUS 59 Tlie optimum temperature is 36°-37° C, and the limits of growth from 30° C. to about 40° C. The organism is destroyed in a few hours by exposure to a temperature of 42° C. It dies out quickly in culture if not frequently transplanted, and is jaarticularly sensitive to lack of moisture, so that when dried up it succumbs within an hour ; but in a moist condition it may remain alive and virulent for as long as 24 hours, as for example in the water of a bath. It is very quickly destroyed by almost all the usual antiseptics, and especially by various silver salts. A 1-4,000 solution of silver nitrate kills it within 10 minutes. The organism produces toxic symptoms, but little of importance has been definitely ascertained with regard to the nature of the toxins themselves, though there is little doubt that they are intra- cellular in character, and are only liberated by the disintegration of the organism. The gonococcus is practically non-pathogenetic for animals, though ])y the inoculation of very large amounts a localized and temporary inflammation may be produced. In man it is the cause of acute gonorrhoea, as well as of the secondaiy manifestations of this disease. In the acute form of the urethral infection the organism is present in large numbers in the pus, and especially within the cells themselves, both in the leucocytes and in the desquamated epithelium in the early stages of the disease. In treated individuals and in chronic cases the cocci are chiefly extracellular, and very few indeed may be found within the cells. The infection usually remains localized in the genito-iirinary tract. It may invade the posterior urethra in the male, or tlie uterus and Fallopian tubes in the female subject. In children tlie vagina itself is also sensitive to gonorrhoeal infection, though hardly ever infected in the adult. The organism sometimes reaches the blood-stream, and may then produce a gonorrhccal rheumatism by setting up secondary foci of infection in the joints, or it may actually occasion general septi- CcTcmia with acute endocarditis and other lesions. According to Neisser, no immunity is developed in the course of any gonorrhceal infection, whether localized or general. 2. BACILLI Bacillus anthracis (Plate 5).—This organism was first ob- served by PoUender in 1849, in the blood of animals which had died of anthrax. It was named by Davaine, who showed that the blood from anthrax cases produced the disease in other animals only when this bacillus was present. In 1876, Koch obtained it in pure culture and described its morphological and cultural characters in detail. By