2l8 GANGRENE develop (1) as tlie result of lowered tissue vitality in the aged and infirm who are obliged to lie in one position for a prolonged period, or in adults the subjects of exhausting diseases, such as pysemia, tj^Dhoid fever, etc. ; or (2) as the result of trophic disturbances in patients of any age suffering from injuries or diseases of the nervous system which interfere with the integrity of the cerebro-spinal centres or the peripheral nerves. They commonly occur on the sacrum, buttocks, and heels, for these are the places usually subjected to pressure, and, in the absence of trophic disturbances, are caused by a process of ansemic necrosis preceded by capiUary thrombosis ; but if due to any nervous affection, though usually appearing in these regions, they may develop in situations far removed from any source of pressure, because vasomotor and sensory disturbances so modify the nutrition of the tissues that they are unable to resist bacterial invasion. Symptoms.—In tlie early stages the skin feels thicker than normal and less j^liant; its colour changes to a dusky red, which does not disappear when pressure is applied, and very soon the epidermis separates, exposing a raw surface. If promjDt measures are now taken to relieve the pressure, recovery is possible, but if the cause is allowed to continue, or if urine and fa3ces contaminate the abrasion, the skin becomes gangrenous, and on separation of the slough a clean-cut ulcer with very little surrounding inflammation is revealed. Every degree of severity is met with, from a small abrasion to complete destruction of all the tissues overlying the bone. In rare cases, infective caries of the sacrum has led to death from meningitis. Treatment.-—It is customary to attribute bed-sores to bad nurs- ing ; but though tlie impeachment may be justified in certain cases, in others it is practically impossible to prevent their formation, especi- ally when the patient is bedridden, and paralysis with incontinence is present. Preventive treatment consists of varying the pressure by frequently altering the position of the patient, and distributing it by placing him on a firm, smooth mattress, a water-bed, or a ring pillow. The draw-sheet must be kept free from creases and changed whenever it becomes damp or soiled, and various devices must be employed to catch the urine when the patient is incontinent. The skin must be thoroughly washed with soap and warm water two or three times daily, carefully dried, sponged with methylated spirit or eau-de- Cologne, and powdered with a mixture of zinc oxide and starch. When a bed-sore has once formed, the separation of the slough should be assisted and the ulcer dressed with a stimulating lotion, such as sulphate of zinc, 2 gr. to the ounce, until healthy granulations appear. If the patient's general condition permits of healing, the raw surface may be covered with skin-grafts; but if the conditions