INFLAMMATION 142 incisions, scarifications, local and general blood-letting, and the administration of cardio-vascular depressants do undoubtedly relieve the local hypertemia, congestion, and exudation ; and, moreover, it cannot be controverted that each and all of these have important places in the treatment of inflammation. The truth is that different cases need treatment on different lines, and this principle is to be recognized in the practice of the past and of the present. Adami divides cases of inflammation into three classes, as follows : (a) Where the local reaction is adequate. The ordinary aseptic healing of a wound, or the normal process of union of a fracture, are examples of this, (b) Where the reaction is inadequate. Bacterial invasions supply the cases of this class. Here it must be understood that the mere fact of much redness, swelling, and heat does not show adequate reaction. The increase in these signs is, on the contrary, evidence that the bacterial invasion is not being overcome. It is to these cases that heat is applied as a routine treatment, and it is for these in particular that Bier's method of inducing hyperjemia might be employed. The added hypersemia induced by either of these methods will bring to the part the leucocytes and protective substances of the blood needed to resist the microbic invasion, (c) Where the reaction is excessive. In these cases, owing to the virulence of the causative organisms or to the deficient vitality of the tissues, conse- quent upon some constitutional debility, the vessels of the part are paralysed, the exudation is excessive—the excess being of fluid and the leucocytes few in number—and the sluggish circulation, with wide- spread stasis, is threatening extensive destruction of the part. Such cases as these the surgeon treats by incision to relieve tension and allow the draining away of toxin-containing serum, and so to restore the circulation in the affected parts. Such excessive exudation is also found after traumatism, and these are the cases in which cold is employed. Its action is to diminish the extravasation of blood from the vessels and to lessen the exudation. The case here is different from that of a microbic invasion ; for, whilst one would not say that exudation after, for instance, a sprain is useless, yet it is not desirable in the same sense as in the former condition. The methods employed in the local treatment of acute inflammation will now be considered in detail. Removal of the cause.—Since the presence of bacteria in the tissues is the most frequent cause of acute inflammation, it is clear that removal of the cause is seldom feasible. Occasionally, as in the case of a malignant pustule, early excision will cut short the disease. Generally speaking, httle more can be done than to remove a foreign body or other source of irritation, should such exist. Rest.—Mechanical and physiological rest must be secured. Splints,