224 GANGRENE syncope). In time tne spasm is followed by relaxation, and the digit becomes Avarm, hypera?sthetic, and, owing to the extremely sluggish circulation, so deeply congested as to be almost black {local asphyxia). These attacks occur more often in the winter, and, apart from hysterical manifestations, may start during or after a meal, when getting up in the morning, or when the patient is tired. If recovery is incomplete between the paroxysms the duskiness of the fingers continues for some days, the pain increases, small sanious blebs form, and at first sight it appears as if several fingers were about to die. Ultimately, how- ever, the circulation gradually improves, the normal colour returns, and only a small area of skin and subcutaneous tissue becomes gangren- ous and is cast off as a dry, black slough. The whole process is so slow that weeks or months may elapse before separation is accom- plished. The condition occasionally simulates senile gangrene and so may give rise to difficulties in diagnosis, but if it be remembered that Raynaud's disease is generally bilateral, is limited to the skin and sub- cutaneous tissues, affects several digits, attacks the fingers more often than the toes, and is unassociated with arterial disease, a mistake is not likely to occur. Treatment.-—When gangrene is threatened, local treatment consists in soaking the fingers in tepid salt water, drying them thoroughly, and wrapping them up in cotton-wool or thick woollen gloves. Necrotic patches must be enveloped in dry aseptic dressings and allowed to separate naturally. General constitutional treatment should be directed against the disease, and opium may be given in small doses for the relief of pain. Cases of Raynaud's disease affecting the hands alone have been recorded in which the symptoms have been ameliorated by stretching the median and ulnar nerves; but this line of treatment is, of course, only suitable when the disease is independent of an organic lesion. Gangrene due to ergot.—The prolonged ingestion of bread made from rye infected with the Claviceps purpurea leads to tonic contraction of the peripheral arterioles, degeneration of their inner coats, thrombosis, and dry gangrene. Ergotism is now very rare, and practically limited to Central and Eastern Europe. It is liable to occur in cold wet summers (climatic conditions that favour the growth of the fungus), and mainly affects the poorer agricultural classes, who are often obliged to live on bread made of the diseased gram that cannot be sold. Middle-aged men appear to be peculiarly susceptible to the poison, and develop gangrene more often than women and children, owing to premature arterio-sclerosis from hard work or chronic alcoholism. Symptoms.—The early signs of ergotism are manifested by dis- turbances of the central nervous and digestive systems. Giddiness,