88i TETANUS cubation was found to range between two and sixteen days, and iu another series of 41 cases it varied between five and eleven days. The second week is the time during which the first symptoms usually appear, and an incubation period of more than three weeks is cjiiite rare. Recent researches suggest that the hngth of the incubation period varies with the distance the toxins must travel along the peripheral trimks before they reach the central nervous system. Thus it is well known that in wounds of the head the symptoms supervene witli great rapidity. The prodromal symptoms are indefinite and consist of general malaise, slight fever, and occasional epistaxis. They are usually assigned, and in many cases are probably due, to the presence of suppuration. Since, however, the tetanus toxin is now known to be present in ever-increasing quantities in and about the wound, and in the peripheral nerves supplying the part, such symptoms may well be considered true manifestations of the disease. Symptoms.—In a case of ordinary severity the onset of the classical symptoms of tetanus is somewhat rapid. From twenty- four to forty-eight hours usually suffices for the appearance of general rigidity and possibly of convulsions. A gradual stiffening of the muscles of mastication or of the neck is first complained of, or if the head have been injured it may be that the pharyngeal muscles are first implicated (tetanus liydrophobicus). The early supervention of con- vulsions in the more acute cases is of grave import, and the patient may be carried off on the second day, asphyxiated by the vice-like rigidity of the respiratory muscles. In cases of the opposite extreme the disease is prolonged for several weeks with more or less general stiffness of the muscular system and with or without spasms. The gradual rise and decline of these symptoms will in such cases take from thirty to sixty days, and convalescence is often postponed for months. At the climax of a severe case the skeletal muscles are in a con- tinual state of tension, especially those of the abdominal wall, which are board-like in their rigidity. The face assumes a typical expression, the " risus sardonicus," in which the brow is knit, the eyeballs fixed, the nostrils spread, and the buccinators contracted. The jaw is clenched, and if the pharyngeal muscles are affected the act of swallow- ing is wellnigh impossible. Both superficial and deep reflexes are markedly exaggerated. Clonic spasms usually begin within twenty-four hours of the general rigidity and are excited by the least external stimulus, such as a jar of the bed, a draught, a sudden light, the administration of food, or the dressing of the wound. Tlie different positions assumed by the sufferer during these convulsions have given rise to the terms 3E