585 TERATOMA OF THE OVARY " ovarian dermoid.'^ In its most simple form this consists of a cyst lined with skin, furnished with hairs and other cutaneous appendages such as sebaceous glands, and filled with fatty material, often con- taining cliolesterin. In its most complex form the ovarian dermoid consists of a simple skin-lined cyst from the inner surface of which projects a complicated mass having sometimes a close resemblance to a foetus. Between these two extremes every gradation occurs, the most common being that in which, a prominent nipple-like projection is present, bearing hairs on its surface, and various tissues, such as bone, cartilage, teeth, epithelial tubes, or nerve elements, in its sub- stance. These tumours never attain the enormous proportions of the ovarian cyst-adenoma. They are most common in early adult life, but have been found in children even as early as the third year. The tumours may be bilateral, and more than one may be present in the same ovary, and, like other ovarian cysts, they are liable to torsion of the pedicle. Occasionally an ovarian dermoid acquires secondary attachments to some other part, such as the omentum, so that its true origin is rendered obscure. A malignant change in an ovarian dermoid is usually evidenced by the presence of a warty mass on its inner surface. Closely allied to, but much more rare than, the ovarian dermoid are certain solid tumours of the ovary which usually, if not always, pursue a malignant course and are described as " malignant embryonia." In one of two cases of this nature recorded by Targett and Hicks, the tumour, which had undergone torsion of the pedicle, was removed by operation from a girl aged 1-i years. Five months later a large recurrent growth was present in the left iliac fossa, and sessile and pedunculated growths were studded over the intestines and omentum. Ascites was present, and recurred after repeated tappings, and death occurred seven months after the first operation. The peritoneal growths were very extensive, and some of the masses had jjrobably originated in the retroperitoneal glands. The primary and secondary growths presented on microscopic examination tubules and cysts lined Avith columnar or stratified epithelium, nodules of cartilage and bone, epithelial pearls, and a stroma of fibrous, muscular and fatty tissues, with groups of ganglion cells, but no resemblance to any definite organ could be traced. Among the thirteen recorded cases collected by Targett and Hicks, eleven were undoubtedly malignant, and of these nine died within a year. The ages varied between fi and -30 years. The metastases are chiefly in the peritoneum and retroperi- toneal glands, whilst in the viscera they are rare. In some cases, as in that above described, the secondary deposits have the same complex structure as the primary tumour, but in others they present the structure of a small round-celled sarcoma.