TUMOURS 466 of the epitlielial tumour cells in the newly formed stroma ; but a second, and perhaps more probable, hypothesis, advocated especially by Haaland, is that certain of the connective-tissue elements of the graft escape the usual degeneration and by a process of adaptation become established in successive transplantations, and thus, with or without the influence of the cells of the epithelial growths, form the nuclei of sarcomatous formations, which may occasionally in the course of successive transplantations eliminate the epithelial element and become pure sarcoma. In 1901-3, Jensen recorded the complete disappearance of tumours from mice which had been successfully inoculated with carcinoma, and suggested that this was due to natural refractoriness of the tissues of the inoculated animals, and possibly also to a resistance produced by absorption of the inoculated material. Following up this line of investigation, Bashford, Murray, and Cramer have proved that mice in which a growing carcinoma has been spontaneously absorbed may be found to be completely immune to subsequent inoculation ; and further, that animals in which no spontaneous g■ro^\'th has occurred may be rendered immune by inoculation of tumour material or of normal mouse tissue or blood. It does not, however, appear that a diminished liability to the development of a spontaneous growth is induced by these procedures, nor has any evidence been obtained that any antibodies are present in the serum of mice naturally or artificially resistant to cancer. AlKed to the question of the communicability of carcinomatous and other malignant growths is that of their auto-inoculability. The evidence on this subject was carefully discussed by Butlin in the Bradshaw Lecture delivered before the Royal College of Surgeons in 1905. Butlin showed how very few of the cases supposed to illustrate the possibility of the inoculation of cancer from one part of the body to another by mere contact will bear full investigation. The evidence, however, seems conclusive that such an event does occasionally occur. Among the most striking examples are those showing the spread of cancer from one side of the vulva to the other, the growths being on parts which are naturally in contact, but the two growths having no direct continuity across the middle line. Similarly, Newman of Glasgow has recorded a case in which a squamous carcinoma of the left false vocal cord was followed by the development of a similar ulcer on the right cord. The nature of each growth was confirmed by microscopic examination, and there was no continuity between them either in front or behind. In the lips Butlin was able to find only one instance of auto-inoculation of which the truth seemed beyond dispute. The case, recorded by von Bergmann, was that of a man who had a cancer of the middle of the lower lip, and exactly opposite