709 TUBERCULOSIS By J. M. BEATTIE, M.A., M.D. This infective disease, resulting from the invasion of the tissues by B. tuberculosis, is met with as a local and as a general affection. The local conditions are those which specially concern the surgeon ; but the general condition is also of importance, especially in its relations with the local affection. The two conditions are not infrequently associated with one another, and a general and widespread infection may be secondary to, and may be the cause of deatli in, a local form of the disease. The causal organism can generally be demonstrated, at one time or another, in the various foci of the disease. It may be present in very large numbers, or it may be so scanty that microscopical examination fails to detect it. Inoculation results are always positive if the bacillus is present and in an active condition. There seems now no reason to doubt that the disease in the human subject may be caused by either the human or the bovine bacillus, and experimental evidence proves that many of the lower animals may be infected with either form of the bacillus. Methods of infection.—Ingestion of tuberculous material is no doubt a fruitful source of infection. Meat, milk, or other articles of diet may contain B. tuberculosis. The bacilli pass through the stomach and become lodged in the intestines, or pass directly through the intestinal wall by the lymphatic channels, and so reach the mesen- teric glands. In tlie intestines they may cause proliferative changes, ulceration, etc., and in the mesenteric glands there are enlargements, proliferative changes, caseation, etc., producing the condition of tabes mesenterica. Tuberculous enlargement of the glands in the neighbour- hood of the ca'cum, which is occasionally met with in young adults, appears to be due to a primary infection of the crecum or to the passage through the ca'cum of the bacilli without direct infection of its wall. Much importance has recently been attached by Calmette and others to infection by way of the alimentary canal, but, though it must