6i4 EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD it also occurs after the injection of tuberculin. Acute niiliary tuber- culosis may present a lympbocytosis or a polymorphonuclear leuco- cytosis. Tuberculosis of the serous membranes perhaps more com- monly than not shows no leucocytosis. Emerson reports 22 cases of tuberculous peritonitis with a leucocytosis in only 9 ; Cabot, 60 cases with a leucocytosis in 14. In tuberculosis of glands there may be a leucopenia, the leucocytes may be normal in number, or—and especi- ally after caseation has commenced—there may be a lymphocytosis. In tuberculosis of bones there is no leucocytosis until a secondary infection sets in. In sypJdlis a lymphocytosis is seen, especially in the secondary and tertiary stages of the disease ; but many cases show no evidence of leucocytosis. Post-operative leucocytosis.—An increase of leucocytes to even 10,000 during the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours after an operation may be regarded as a normal process, due partly to the necessary absorption of destroyed tissue. The leucocytosis in such cases bears no relation to the pulse and temperature. If, however, the leucocytosis is prolonged beyond thirty-six hours, and especially if it shows a progressive rise, it should lead to the suspicion that septic absorption is taking place. Post-haemorrhagic leucocytosis.—After a large haemorrhage there is a rise of leucocytes within about an hour to from 12,000 to 18,000. The leucocytes are principally of the polymorphonuclear type. The increase lasts for only a few days, and therefore is not likely to be mistaken for a leucocytosis due to infection. Lymphocytosis.—From the surgical point of view, lympho- cytosis is of much less importance than polymorphonuclear leuco- cytosis, and is of very little value in relation to either diagnosis or treatment. It is said to occur in connexion with cervical adenitis in children ; but in the majority of cases, at any rate, this is merely the lymphocytosis of tuberculosis. In lymphomas, and especially in those of the malignant type, a lymphocytosis may be a marked feature. In syphilitic and in tuberculous infections a lymphocytosis is usually present, though the absolute increase of lymphocytes may not be very great. Eosinophilia (Plate 1, Fig. 2) is not of special importance to the surgeon. It has been met with in cases of chronically enlarged spleen, and in this connexion it has been suggested that these spleens are functionless, a very considerable eosinopliilia having been described as occurring in cases about a year after splenectomy. A large number of skin diseases are accompanied by an eosinophilia, and it is a common manifestation of parasitic infection. In trichinosis and in ankylostomiasis it is of very considerable diagnostic value.