252 WOUNDS AND WOUND TREATMENT Various sterilizers, sucli as Schimmelbuscli's, Lautenschlager's, and Stack's, have been devised ; their principle is sufficiently illustrated in Figs. 13, 14, and 15. The kettle is packed with the materials to be sterilized, and placed, with its apertures open, in the sterilizer, which is then closed. The steam is admitted and allowed to circulate for an hour. After the contents have dried by evaporation the apertures are closed by means of the sliding plates, and the kettleful of dressings is ready for use. Fig. 15.—Stack's dressings sterilizer. Dressings are placed in the receptacle, b, which is closed with the lid, D. Boiling water is put into the outer can, a, and the inner can is screwed in position. The extra lid, H, is laid on the top of the inner can and the lid of the outer can screwed down. The whole is heated on any flame. The steam passes in the directions indicated by the arrows, from the funnel, e, up pipe, c, down through dressings in i), through holes in bottom of i; and up oulside b in outer can, a, finally escaping through pipe in knob, F. After sterilization the outer can is opened, the'extra lid is lifted out by its edges and placed on the table, the receptacle, B, is unscrewed from the funnel, and the inner can is lifted out and pressed at once on to the extra lid. (y) The use of superheated steam involves the provision of elaborate machinery, and does not give results so good as those of steam under pressure. (S) Steam under pressure affords the most satisfactory method, but requires the use of an autoclave. It is therefore more applicable in the case of hospitals and similar institutions than in private practice. The dressings are placed in Schimmelbuscli's kettles, which are sub- jected to steam at a pressure varjang from 10 to 20 lb. for 15 to 30 minutes. Steam under jjressure possesses greater penetrating power than ordinary live steam and secures more rapid disinfection. A favourite type of autoclave is that shown in Fig. 16.