296 BURNS AND SCALDS As reaction comes on, the second stage is entered upon, the stage of inflammation, which may be said to last until the sloughs are separated, in from one to two weeks. The temperature rises to 102° F., or even 104° F., the rise being associated with definite reaction in the internal organs, such as broncho-pneumonia and bronchitis, especially when the thorax itself is burnt. It is alleged that inflammation of the various parts of the intestinal tract is pecrdiarly liable to follow burns on the abdomen. Duodenal ulcer, with perforation, was formerly said to be a common complication of burns, but tliis statement is open to grave doubt. Certainly in these days, when everyone is famiHar with the symptoms presented by perforating ulcers of the duodenum, one does not see or hear of cases occurring as a result of burns. In an experience of over 200 cases of severe burns, only in one case was melsena noted. In that case there were no symptoms pointing to the seat of the haemorrhage, so that it may have come from almost any part of the intestinal tract; the patient recovered. Albuminuria is common, and this may be associated with degenerative changes in the kidneys. The third stage, the stage of suppuration, lasts from the end of the second period until the wound is healed. Its duration, therefore, is very variable, and may be protracted for months. The complications of this stage are mostly the result of long-continued suppuration and sepsis, and can, therefore, be controlled to a considerable extent by sldlful treatment conducted on modern surgical lines. Pathology and modes of death.—As the result of a fire in a building, persons may be suffocated, and death occur from poisoning by carbon dioxide or carbon monoxide ; in the latter case the charac- teristic cherry-red colour of the blood, produced by carbon monoxide hsemoglobin, will be observed. The largest number of deaths occur during the period of shock. Out of 207 fatal cases of burns and scalds no fewer than 128 died from shock either on the same day or on the day following the injury. The intensity of the shock depends far more on the superficial extent of the burn than on its depth. Burns involving one-half of the body are always fatal, and those affecting one-third nearly always end in death. Children frequently die when the front of the chest and abdomen is burnt to the second degree, the bulk of the burnt area being only of the first degree. Cases are recorded of adult males dying from shock when extensively burnt to the first degree only. Burns over the great serous cavities are more dangerous than those on the limbs. Many theories have been advanced to explain the fatal issue during this period. It was formerly suggested that the extensive interference- with the various physiological attributes of the sldn was sufficient to cause rapid death. The pathological changes in the body fall under