26o WOUNDS AND WOUND TREATMENT Failing this, a narrow but firm kitchen table, or two tables end to end, or in the form of a T, may be used. (b) Three small tables—one for dressings, sterilizer, drums, etc., a second for instrument-trays, and the third for the anaesthetist. (c) Several sterilized bowls and basins. {d) A large supply of hot and cold sterilized water. (e) A convenient instrument sterilizer. (/) A plentiful supply of the chosen lotions {see p. 263). (g) Efficient lighting—preferably a natural north light. Also hand-lamps. (h) A couple of washstands, with boiled nail-brushes. (i) Blankets pinned inside clean sheets for laying under and over the jjatient. (/) A piece of oilcloth to spread mider the table. ii. In an etnergency the less disturbance of the room with a view to cleansing, the better. It is wiser to leave dust on the floor than to stir it up in a hurried attempt to prepare the room. The floor may be covered Avith damp sheets, but otherwise very little should be done. PREPARATION OF INSTRUMENTS AND UTENSILS Sharp-edged steel instruments may be disinfected by immersion for half an hour in methylated spirit, or for 15 minutes in pure carbolic; or they may be boiled in 1 per cent, soda solution or borax solution for 4 to 5 minutes. The blimting so liable to occur in the latter two methods may be, as we have said, largely prevented by wrapping the blades in cotton-wool or lint to obviate contact with the containing vessel. Blunt steel instruments are to be sterilized by boiling for 20 minutes in 1 per cent, soda or borax solution. The addition of the soda or borax (a teaspoonful to a pint) to the water serves the double purpose of preventing discoloration of the instruments and of raising the boiling-point from 100° C. to anything between 104° C. and 106° C. It is essential that the solution be in a state of active ebullition, that the instruments be completely immersed, and that the lid of the sterilizer be in position. Unless the liquid be kept stirred by the process of ebullition, and the lid be kept on to prevent rapid evaporation accompanied by cooling of the surface, the temperature is not uniform throughout, and is frequently less than 100° C. at the surface. When the process of sterilization is completed the instruments are laid out on a tray, either on a dry sterilized towel, or in steriHzed water, spirit, or 1-20 carbolic. Glass instruments, and still more glass-and-metal instruments, such .as syringes, are liable to crack if put direct into boiling water, and