266 WOUNDS AND WOUND TREATMENT 5 per cent.—i.e. mucli more concentrated than that usually employed —^it is quite useless. Saturated solutions are used, followed by satu- rated solutions of oxalic acid, in Schatz's method of preparing the hands for operation. Tinct. henzoini co. (Friar's balsam) is frequently of value as an immediate application in cases of accidental wounds, and is some- times used for swabbing out septic cavities, and also in mouth operations (Pearson). Iodine is a very valuable and powerful antiseptic, which may be used either in the form of the tincture (2A per cent.), of a diluted tincture in which it is dissolved in potassium iodide (1 per cent.), or as a chloroform or ethylene-dichloride solution. If it be used for skin preparation, previous soap-and-water treatment should be omitted, for reasons already stated (see p. 258). In factories, where woimds are not uncommon, it should be kept in stock for immediate application. If this be done it should be remembered that the tincture, and other potassium iodide solutions, should not be more than one month old ; the chloroform solution appears to be much more stable, and therefore more suitable for this purpose. The combination of stimulant with antiseptic properties possessed by the tincture renders it specially valuable in the treatment of chronic fistulae and sores. It actively promotes phagocytosis, and also stimulates the growth of granulation tissue. Its power of penetration through the skin can be increased by kataphoresis. Normal saline solution is a solution of common salt in sterilized water in the strength of 0'65, or, roughly, 1 drachm to the pint. It approximates in strength to blood-plasma, and therefore, on account of its non-irritating and non-devitalizing characters, if prepared under aseptic precautions, affords an excellent lotion for all fresh wounds, for skin grafts, and for delicate membranes such as the peritoneum. Sterilized water is freely used by many surgeons, and may be prepared by boiling water for five minutes in Florence flasks, which are then corked with sterile cotton-wool and allowed to cool. PRINCIPLES OF OPERATIVE PROCEDURE Although the general principles of operative procedure cannot be discussed in detail, we must emphasize the necessity for the avoidance of all scratching with the knife or raising of the skin from the subcutaneous tissues ; the knife should be so held as to ensure its use as a cutting instrument and not as one for the teasing out of the tissues. The method of holding the knife permitted in anatomical dissecting must be abandoned in surgical work. Scratching and under-cutting