802 CONGENITAL SYPHILIS Hocbsiiiger, since 1869, has been able to keep under observation 134 women who showed no signs of sypliilis but bore sypliilitic children. These women gave birth 569 times, 253 of the children being born dead, i.e. 44-4 per cent. ; 263 were sypliilitic and 53 were without a taint. Of the 263, 55 died before the fourth year, i.e. over 20 per cent. General pathology.—A point upon which a good deal of stress should be laid is the appearance of embryonic areas in the organs. The syphilitic virus affects an organ before it is mature ; since its action is to increase tlie formation of fibrous tissue, especially of the vessels, the parenchyma of the organ suffers in nutrition, and cannot mature so quickly as it would otherwise have done ; consequently, at or after birth it may in parts retain embryonic characters. For instance, the foetal liver has the capacity of manufacturing blood, a function which normally disappears after birth, but which may be retained in congenital syphilis ; and Schridde describes cases showing f.reas where both red and white corpuscles were found in process of manufacture. SpirochgEtes have been found in every organ, but are most abun- dant and frequently found in the connective tissue of the medulla of the suprarenals. In the Hver they are especially found in the neigh- bourhood of the large blood-vessels, and in the lungs especially around the vessels in the walls of the alveoli. Lymphocytes are found in the cerebro-spinal fluid, as in the acquired form, and the Noune-Apelt and Noguchi tests may prove of some value in diagnosis. Lymphocytosis is the rule; but since lymphocytes are so greatly in excess of the other white blood- corpuscles in normal infants, no stress can be laid on this point. Treatment.—Attempts have been made to limit the use of mercury to those manifestations which correspond to the secondary in the acquired form, and potassium iodide to those simulating the tertiary symptoms. But if the child has syphilitic symptoms of any nature whatever, this is evidence of an active virus ; and since mercury is the only proved specific against syphilis, this drug should be invariably employed. Potassium iodide is undoubtedly useful in the late manifestations, but should never be solely relied upon. Mercury is best given intermittently, each course being followed by iodides. Iodides given in this way aid elimination of the super- fluous mercury which has been stored up in the system. Infants are very tolerant of mercury given internal^, because they are toothless and consequently run no risk of stomatitis. Treatment should be commenced as soon as the case is diagnosed, and in every case giving a jjositive Wassermann reaction, even if no symptoms be present.