633 OSTEOARTHRITIS Monarticular osteo-arthritis.—This disease is character- ized by osteophytic outgrowth from the articular margins of the bones which enter into the affected joint. As a whole, the bones of the joint are decidedly more translucent than the normal, and their structure is usually irregular. Takijig the hip-joint as the most usual site of this disease, the changes observable are as in Plate 46, Fig. 4, where the inner portion of the head of the femur shows abnormal translucency. This area of greater translucency is bounded on the outer aspect by a curved line of greater opacity, the convexity of which is directed outwards ; the articular surfaces of the head of the upper and lower profile are somewhat irregular in outline, and osteophytic outgrowths, irregular in shape and size, are to be seen in the position indicated. Fig. 5 is an example of a case in which the increased translucency of the head of the femur cannot be so dis- tinctly seen, but excessive osteophytic outgrowth is readily dis- discernible. Figs. 4«. and 5« are similar views of normal hip-joints for comparison witli the above. Hypertrophic osteo-arthritis.—On X-ray examination a joint which is the seat of this disease shows little increased trans- lucency or irregularity of structure of the bones entering into the joint, but osteophytic outgrowths from the articular margins arc observable. With regard to the last four diseases described, viz. gout, rheu- matoid arthritis, monarticular and liypertrophic osteo-arthritis, so far as the etiology, prognosis, and treatment are concerned their position is somewhat uncertain. However little is known regarding these diseases. X-ray examination can often assist diagnosis, and is of great aid in indicating the treatment and prognosis. The amount of osteophytic outgrowth can be clearly revealed, and the extent of the bony changes in rheumatoid arthritis readily estimated. In the monarticular arthritis of the hip-joint I have found that the appearance of increased translucency of the head of the femur, such as is to be seen in Plate 46, Fig. 4, suggests that the disease is active, while a case such as Fig. 5, in which there is osteopliytic formation with little increased translucency, suggests that the disease is quiescent. In rheumatoid arthritis (polyarticular) it is possible to appreciate the changes in the articular surfaces of a joint, and to estimate the degree of these changes, and so to learn whether a joint thus affected is able to regain the power of movement. When such cases are considered clinically there may appear to be present com- plete ankylosis of the joint which, on X-ray examination, can be seen to be due neither to extensive destruction of tlie articular surfaces nor to bony ankylosis. In such cases treatment may be undertaken with some reasonable hoj^e of success.