350 TUMOURS The occasional transition from a purely playsiological process into a pathological tumour is exemplified by certain tumours following fractures. In the repair of a fractured bone the amount of the reparative tissue or callus is determined by the demand, and varies directly with the amount of movement between the fragments and the amount of displacement ; so that the process is throughout a purposeful one. In rare instances the formation of new tissue exceeds these physiological limits, and by its continued growth a veritable tumour is produced. Causation.— The origin and causation of tumours are matters of extreme interest, but unfortunately very little is definitely known concerning them. Reference will be made in the course of this article to some of the most important work which has been carried out in the attempt to solve these problems. For the present, it must suffice very briefly to indicate certain considerations having a bearing upon the general subject. Tumours have been divided into two great classes—^the homologous and the heterologous. In the former the elements of the tumour cor- respond in nature with the normal tissue elements of the part in which the tumour originates ; in the latter the tumour elements differ from those of the part in which the tumour originates. Thus a fatty tumour arising in the subcutaneous fat is homologous, whereas a cartilaginous tumour of a muscle, or a tumour of the kidney containing muscle fibres, is heterologous. In tumours of the heterologous type there is reason for supposing that the cells in which the tumour arises have come to occupy their abnormal position by a simple process of dis- placement in the course of embryonic development, or as a result of trauma. For instance, in view of the close relationship of the skeletal muscles with the skeleton itself, it is not difficult to conceive of the displacement at an early period of certain cells destined to become cartilage and their inclusion among the cells which become muscle- fibres. A further most striking instance of apparent displacement is met with in the origin of cartilaginous tumours of the bones in the immediate vicinity of the epiphysial cartilage, for it is easy to suppose that such a tumour develops from cartilage cells which have become detached from their normal position and, instead of taking their share in the normal growth of the bone, grow independently into a tumour. Again, the development of the Iddney occurs in tissue wluch is closely connected with the muscle plates on either side of the ver- tebral column, and the inclusion of muscle-forming cells in the primitive kidney may explain the presence of striped muscle-fibres in a renal tumour. In the kidney also the development of a tumour having the structure of the cortex of the adrenal body has been explained by the discovery of Grawitz that small islands of adrenal tissue can occa- sionally be demonstrated within the kidney capsule. Another strik-