REPAIR IN SOLID VISCERA 163 amount of cicatricial contraction of the scar tissue, and stenosis, more or less severe, may result. Repair in the gall-bladder and the urinary bladder and ureters is brought about by the same processes as those concerned in repair of the stomach and the intestine. Complete union may have taken place in from ten to fom'teen days. REPAIR IN THE SOLID VISCERA liiver.—In young animals one-half or three-fourths of the liver can be removed, and definite regeneration takes place, the liver even- tually being restored to its normal size. In the human subject such extensive repair is probably not possible, but there is abundant evidence that extensive regeneration may take place. This new formation of liver tissue is particularly seen in cases in which there has been wide- spread destruction—e.g. in cirrhosis, in subacute 3^ellow atrophy, in chronic venous congestion, in cancer, etc. The new areas are gener- ally composed of large or somewhat irregularly shaped cells, closely packed together and very often presenting double nuclei. According to Milne, this regeneration results from a proliferation of the liver cells directly, and with no transition in type of cell; and, further, this regenerative capacity is specially manifested in those cells which occupy the outer zones of the lobules. The multiplication of the liver cell is usually by direct division, though karyomitotic division some- times occurs. It is generally held that in this reparative process the bile-duct and the interstitial connective tissue also proliferate. According to Milne, the numerous " bile-duct-like " structures which are seen in connexion with destructive and reparative conditions in the liver, especially m those cases in which fibrous tissue is being laid down, are not really new ducts, but " a becoming evident of the delicate normal bile-conducting channels which extend between the liver cells and the interlobular bile-ducts." He further states that when these structures become exposed in granulation tissue, their lining cells swell and become more evident, and assume a definitely cubical shape. Experi- mentally, these ducts become conspicuously evident in about four or five days as tubes lined by a somewhat thin, flattened epithelium ; but in ten days the epithelium is definitely cubical m shape. These lining cells sometimes multiply locally, but they never reproduce cells with any close resemblance to liver cells. In wounds of, or incisions into, the Uver, especially if these are not extensive, healing takes place by the formation of fibrous tissue, but even in these cases some regeneration of the liver tissue may be seen at the peripheral parts of the wound. (Plate 24.) Spleen.—Repair in the spleen is only observed after small tears or