686 LOCAL ANESTHESIA be injected into the rectus sheatli behind the muscle, after this has been exposed ; while the peritoneum over the iliac fossa can be safely infiltrated from skin punctures about the anterior superior ihac spine, thus permitting the painless performance of appendicectomy. The disadvantage of local anaesthesia for operations involving the peri- toneal cavity is that the pain due to pulling on the viscera cannot be eliminated, but, even if a short period of general ansesthesia is neces- sary for such manipulations, the advantages of the local anaesthesia for the greater part of the operation may be very great in an old and feeble patient. In the neck, apart from tracheotomy, which is easily performed under local infiltration, this method has been most used in enlarge- ments of the thyroid gland, on account of the risks of general anaes- thesia in these cases. The line of the incision should first be infil- trated, and then a deep infiltration made around the thyroid with the long, blunt needle, especial attention being paid to injections behind the sterno-mastoid into the region of the cervical plexus. The thyroid itself is insensitive, but any pulling on the surrounding structures is associated with a pain which the patient describes as " pressing," and a secondary injection into the deeper parts of the wound is some- times necessary. In the thorax, empyemas may be successfully dealt with, but here again it is usually necessary to infiltrate the periosteum on the deep and superficial aspects of the rib before resecting it. Operations on the skull may be easily performed by making a ring injection around the area to be attacked ; while if the infiltration is made into the pericranium it is possible to trephine the slcull. It has been found that the dura mater—over the vault at any rate— is insensitive to ordinary operative manipulations. As far as joints are concerned, the cartilage-covered surfaces are normally insensitive to painful stimuli, but the ligaments and synovial membrane are not so. They can be rendered analgesic by injection of the solution into the joint cavity, so that by this measure, coupled with infiltration of the surrounding soft parts, it has been possible to reduce dislocations and perform disarticulations. In operating on bones, one must remember that the sensitive por- tion is the periosteum, and that if this be anaesthetized an operation on the cancellous portion can be painlessly carried out. The infiltration of the periosteum is best performed after the bone has been exposed. Skin grafting is an operation especially suitable for local analgesia, since there is no need to anaesthetize the insensitive granulating sur- face. All that is necessary is to infiltrate the skin from which the graft is taken ; if adrenalin be used with the solution there is no cedema to interfere with the smooth cutting of the razor.