265 STERILIZING LOTIONS applied as a moist dressing (especially if weak solutions sucli as 1-60 or 1-80 be used) to a part with a " terminal " circulation, gangrene is apt to occur insidiously, the patient being unaware of any morbid sensation owing to the anaesthetic action of the solution. Numerous fingers have been lost in this wa}''. Creolin (1 to 2 per cent.), cyllin (purified creolin), lysol (1 to 2 per cent.), microl (1 to 2 per cent.), izal (f per cent.), are all derivatives of coal-tar. Lysol, being prepared by saponification of coal-tar oil with alkalis, may be used for its soapy as well as for its antiseptic action. These preparations are all more or less irritating to sensitive skins ; they are, however, less toxic than carbolic acid. Creolin should be mixed with cold water first, for if hot Avater be added directly to the imdiluted creolin some of the oils are pre- cipitated. Lysoform is a combination of formaldehyde with soap, which may be used in solutions of from 1 to 5 per cent. It is comparatively non-irritating and non-toxic, and a fairly efficient germicide. Formalin, a 40 per cent, watery solution of formaldehyde, is frequently used in strengths of from 1 to 10 per cent, of the formalin, especially for spra}dng rooms and for disinfecting very septic wounds. Its pungent, irritating vapour is, however, a great drawback. Hydrogen peroxide (HoOj) is a very valuable preparation, especially for suppurating cavities, fistulse, and lesions infected with anaerobic organisms. When mixed with pus, etc., it causes a free effervescence due to the setting free of nascent oxygen. The B.P. preparation should give off 10 volumes of oxygen on decomposition. If used in this strength, however, for comparatively recent wounds, hydrogen peroxide is apt to cause a stinging, impleasant sensation. It is, however, frequently used in strengths of from 4 to 7 volumes. If it be employed for suppurating cavities, such as the Imee-joint, one must remember that it distends the cavity and opens up the outljdng pockets of the synovial membrane. If these be infected this is, of course, a desirable action, but if it seems probable that they have escaped infection the hydrogen peroxide may cause its extension from the general joint-cavity into these bursae, etc. Hydrogen peroxide has the additional advantage that it assists in hfemostasis and in the loosening of plugs. Boric acid is a feeble and ineffective germicide, but is of value for its non-irritating and non-toxic effects. It is chiefly used for the irrigation of the conjunctiva and of the mucous membranes, and for the preparation of hot fomentations. Potassium permanganate possesses, on account of its oxidizing power, antiseptic properties, but imless in strength greater than