REPAIR OF NERVOUS TISSUE i6i definite. If the continuity of the nerve is interrupted, secondary degeneration occurs throughout the entire peripheral part, which has been severed from its trophic nerve-cells. The myelin breaks up in droplets and the axis cylinders disintegrate. The nuclei of the neuri- lemma undergo proliferation. Following the degeneration, if the con- tinuity of the parts be preserved, in favourable circumstances repair or regeneration, complete or incomplete, may occur. As to the method by which regeneration is brought about, there is still some uncertainty, difierent views being held as to whether the repair starts from the distal end of the central or upper portion, or from the proximal end of the peripheral part. For convenience, we shall speak of the former as the " central" and the latter as the peripheral " end of the divided or injured nerve. According to those who accept the central theory, the repara- tive process starts from the cut end of the proximal or central portion of the severed nerve. Either the original nerve-fibres, they maintain, grow downwards into the peripheral segment; or a number of young axis cylinders are formed by division of each original axis cylinder at the first node of Ranvier above the point of injury. These young axis cylinders grow downwards mto the original neurilemma sheaths, or fresh neurilemma sheaths may be formed from the proliferated neurilemma nuclei. This corresponds practically with the embryonic method of development, where the axis cylinder grows directly down- wards from a ganglion cell. The second or peripheral theory has received the support of several workers on the subject, including Kennedy, Ballance, and Purves Stewart. Stated very briefly, the view which they maintain is tliat the peripheral segment of a divided nerve degenerates com- pletely. This degeneration begins in a few hours after the injury, and is nearly complete in from three to four weeks. In the old sheath, neurilemma cells proliferate, become arranged in regular columns, and act as neuroblasts or nerve formative cells. While the degeneration is active, these cells of the sheath of Schwann show proliferative changes, and may be found between the myelin drops. They act as pliagocytes to the myelin and to the axis cylinders. Close to the nucleus of the neuroblast, a young, somewhat wavy axis cylinder is developed, which soon becomes separated from the nucleus. Round this axis cylinder a delicate myelin sheath is formed, the remaining neuroblasts formmg the new neurilemma sheath. The young axis cylinders join end to end to form more or less continuous chains, but do not undergo full development until they have become united to the central end of the nerve. These observers further state that the existing axis cylinders at the central end play an entirely passive part until they become joined to the new peripherally formed fibres. L