790 CONGENITAL SYPHILIS If tlie parents are properly treated, healthy children can be produced. If it be established that the Wassermann reaction in sjrphilis is epecific, then we shall be able to decide whether an apparently healthy individual is syphilitic or not, and to formulate certain rules for treatment: 1. A father giving a positive result should receive mercurial treatment. 2. A mother giving a positive result should also receive mer- curial treatment; and whether there are symptoms or not, treatment should be continued throughout the whole period of each succeeding pregnancy. 3. Every child of syphilitic parents should have its blood ex- amined by Wassermann's method. If the reaction is positive the child should receive mercurial treatment and be suckled only by its mother. If negative, no treatment is necessary; the child can be suckled by its mother, provided the latter gives a negative reac- tion ; if not, it should be bottle-fed, or suckled by a wet-nurse. Although of extremely rare occurrence, cases have been recorded in which the disease was handed down to the third generation, i.e. a congenital syphiUtic propagating syphilis. Symptoms.—A child may have manifestations of syphilis in utero, which pass off before birth, for children have been born with synechise, the sequelae of a previous iritis, also with pigmenta- tion from old skin lesions. Other children may present all the mani- festations of the disease at birth. More commonly the infant is born healthy and strong, but develops signs of the disease within three months. Should no signs appear within this time the child must not be regarded as free, for they may not develop until puberty or later —i.e. late congenital syphilis. Therefore a suspected infant should always be subjected to the Wassermann test. A positive result, whether the child appears healthy or not, indicates the necessity for treatment; and the sooner the treatment is begun the less likeli- hood will there be of late lesions supervening. It is claimed that the Wassermann reaction is so reUable in con- genital syphilis that a child giving a negative reaction can be regarded as syphilis-free. The later the symptoms appear after birth the better the prognosis; for, whereas the early signs are invariably general, the late are local, i.e. affection of bones, or eyes, etc. Early symptoms are marasmus and a dry and wrinkled skin with little or no subcutaneous fat ; the hair is short and the nails un- developed, the nasal bridge depressed, the voice weak, and the little patient snuffles and has a peculiar cry.