36 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY to collect as much as 8 to 10 c.c. by the same method. Less than this amount is insufficient to give rehable results, as the bacteria may be relatively very few in the peripheral ch'culation. The blood is at once transferred to a sterile vessel (e.g. test-tube), and may with advantage be defibrinated to keep it fluid by shaking it for some minutes with a few bits of glass, or tin tacks, or a little coil of iron wire inserted in the vessel before it has been sterilized. If the blood cannot at once be taken in hand by a bacteriologist, it should without delay be diluted about ten times with sterile distilled water or sterile normal saline solution in a sterile flask, if sufficient culture bouillon for the purpose be not at hand. It is essential that the blood should not remain undiluted for any length of time, as the bactericidal substances set free in it may possibly suffice to render it sterile even if it originally contained a considerable number of living micro-organisms. This fact accounts for many otherwise inexplicable results which are obtained in the course of blood examinations. Urine.—Urine should always be collected for bacteriological examination by catheter. In the case of females this rule should have no exception unless the examination has to be frequently repeated (e.g. in suspected tuberculosis). In the male, if a catheter cannot be jjassed, or its use is undesirable, the penis should be carefully cleansed, and the first portion of the urine allowed to escape, only the later flow being used for examination. Morning urine is always preferable for the purpose if obtainable. Where the urine is purulent, or obviously contains bacteria, a small amount will suffice for examination. But if it is to be searched for tubercle bacilli, a large quantity must be collected and carefully centrifugalized. The deposit is then examined. Pleural and other fluids.—Similar considerations to those already mentioned apply to the investigation of pleural, cerebro-spinal, and other fluids. Tissues.—Tissues removed for bacteriological investigation should be washed in a stream of sterile water, dried with sterile absorbent cotton-wool, and placed in a dry sterile test-tube or similar vessel closed with a rubber stopper for transmission to the laboratory. MAKING OF CULTURES Whenever practicable, it is important, in addition to the collecting of material for subsecfuent examination, that a culture should be made on the surface of slopid agar without delay. Tliis should be done either with a platinum loop or needle, or by gently smearing over the siu-face of .the medium Avith a small sterile cotton-Vi^ool swab which has been in contact with the infective material, care being taken not to break the surface of the agar. If there is a probability of the presence of more than one variety of micro- organism, a separation may usually be effected without difficulty by the following method, using a series of three or four sloped-agar tubes. Take agar tubes which have been sloped long enough for the small amount of condensation water to collect at the foot. With a platinum loop or needle infect the condensation water of the first tube from the material to be examined,