CHRONIC URETHRITIS: EXAMINATION 823 The simplest method of ascertaining tlie character of the inflam- mation in chronic urethritis is to pass a large acorn-headed l)lack- gum bougie down the whole length of the urethra (Fig. 206). If the head of the bougie pass over the inflamed area a twinge of pain is felt by the patient, which ceases as soon as the liead has passed beyond the affected spot, but is again felt as the head passes over it when the bougie is being withdrawn. By noting these sensitive spots the seat and the extent of the inflammation may be determined. Moreover, the passage of a large acorn-headed bougie proves the absence of any decided stricture of the urethra ; the determination of this fact is of the greatest importance. A better method of ascertaining the degree of contraction is by the use of the urethrometer. This instrument, when introduced into the urethra, can be extended at will, the degree of expansion being indicated by a pointer on a dial (Fig. 207). The dilatability of the normal urethra in its various parts has been given on p. S05. Any inflam- 3 Fig. 20s.—Schall's endoscope. matory infiltration renders it less and less dilatable, according to the depth to Avhich the infiltration has penetrated and its advancement towards fibrosis. By carefully comparing the amount of dilatation, a very good idea of tlic extent and depth of the inflammation can be arrived at. Lastly, the uretliral mucous membrane should be examined by means of tiie endoscope, for by tliis means alone can we detect many of the minute changes in the inflammation of the nuxcous membrane, which would otherwise pass unnoticed, and the observance of wliich is, in many cases, essential to successful treatment. In its simplest form the endoscope consists solely of a straiglit metal tube, having a funnel-shaped opening at one end ; tlie tube being introduced into the urethra, the light is reflected down tlie funnel-end by means of a mirror. Tlie illumination is so imperfect that the instrument in this form is of little value. To correct the defect several modifications have been devised, of which Schall's and Valentine's are to be pre- ferred. In Schall's instrument (Fig. 208) the light from a small incandescent lamp is reflected by means of a prism down the uretliral