SEQUELS OF SPINAL ANALGESIA 701 pallor and sweating. No treatment of these latter symptoms is better than the assuaging of the former. Duration of analgesia.—Case for case, small doses mean short analgesia, but the reverse is not always true. Nothing varies so much in this procedure as the duration of analgesia in different individuals. The average duration resulting from a dose of 6 eg. of stovaine in adults is fifty minutes, but it is at times as long as ninety or as short as twenty. As a rule, a good flow of cerebro-spinal fluid and a steady rise of analgesia means analgesia of high level and long duration. Removal of excessive amounts of fluid tends to very rapid rise and to shorter analgesia. The injection should not be made where the flow of fluid is poor. In most cases the effects of the injection will be found to have passed off in the course of from one to two hours, the knee-jerks being the last of the functions to be re-established. Post-operative phenomena.—In this country the procedure seems to have been singularly free from unpleasant sequelae ; but on the Continent, where opinion varies greatly as regards dosage, posi- tion, technique, and class of patient, such phenomena have been reported from time to time. The simplest sequelae met with in ordinary circumstances are head- ache, backache, pain in the liiubs, sickness, and pjirexia. The first four of these depend largely on the method of administration, and are less frequently seen as experience is gained ; the last is almost always present, but the temperature rarely ranges above 101° F., and com- monly subsides on the second or third day. Schwarz considers the effects to be as much due to the vehicle as to the drug, since sterilized water is of itself capable of producing such symptoms. These sequelpe are said to be commoner where stovaine is employed, but this probably only means that that drug has been far more exten- sively used than any other. In the course of over 800 cases at the Seamen's Hospital, Greenwich, no serious sequela3 of any kind have been met with. Many writers, however, speak of tropacocaine and novocaine as being less toxic than other analgesics. The following points should be noted as making for safety :— 1. Cocaine should be entirely abandoned. 2. The Trendelenburg position is not well suited to cases under spmal analgesia. 3. Pysemia is a contra-indication to spinal analgesia, although simple sepsis is not necessarily so. 4. Preparations of suprarenal gland are probably dangerous to the vitality of the cornual cells of the cord. 5. Unduly high analgesia should not be purposely aimed at. 6. Dosage should be rather under- than over-estimated. It is