SUPPURATION 178 wliich he calls opsonins in the serum of blood drawn from patients suffering from infective processes, but no opsonin is demonstrable in pus. After an abscess has been opened, however, opsonins appear and gradually increase in amount in the serous discharge. I have killed rabbits suffering from mature circumscribed abscesses by injecting the animals, in some cases with carmine, in others with methylene blue ; in none could I observe' any pigment within the abscess cavities, though it remained fixed in all the other tissues of the body, including those immediately surrounding the abscesses. This was true also in the case of animals killed by the same process in which the abscesses were opened previous to the injection of pigment. These experiments appear to indicate that there is no direct open lymphatic communication between the body and the abscess cavity ; also that the cells of the capillaries and small veins play some part in deciding what shall pass into the abscess cavity. Vice versa, the periodic rise of temperature at night in many cases of toxaemia does not support the theory that mechanical pressure induces absorption from the abscess cavity. The proteolytic enzymes derived from tlie leucocytes of pus are probably a cause of death of the cocci, which are killed without being incorporated within cells. 2. In considering the proliferation of pre-existing tissues which occurs at and around the site of an acute circumscribed abscess, the reader sliould regard the lesion as being an acute diffuse suppuration the spread of which has ceased. He must not be misled into tlie idea that its apparent enclosure by connective tissue has led in any way to the arrest of spread ; it becomes circumscribed because the process has been arrested. In other words, the proliferation of the connective tissue and the apparent encystment of the abscess cavity cannot be regarded as the cause of its arrest. In my opinion, proliferation of the local connective tissue could not occur had not the tissues gained a power of resistance which they did not possess during the first hours of invasion. The reader will remember tliat death of tissues was tlie first consequence of micro-organismal invasion ; proliferation of tissue and death of tissue could not exist in association, at the same spot, and under the same conditions. The dead parts must have been more susceptible to disease than the proliferating parts. The state of affairs seen is as follows : At an early stage there is practically no change visible in the activity of the undestroyed cells of the Tpavt, but there is infiltration with polynuclear neutrophile leucocytes. The number of leucocytes is increased at the end of twenty-four hours, and the process has, in parts, reached the pre- existing bands of fibrous connective tissue, but it is the mere accident of collision. It may be said at once that, although the endothelial