SUPPURATION 194 and the blades are opened in the direction parallel to the structures which the surgeon desires to avoid. Dressing.—The wound should be dressed witli double cyanide gauze. For the first few hours sterilized green protective should cover the lips of the wound to prevent the gauze from sticking to them, thereby relieving the patient of pain when the dressings are removed. Hot fomentations of gauze wrung out of boiling solution of perchloride of mercury (1-8,000) for the first few hours have also a soothing effect on acutely inflamed tissues. 2. The constitutional treatnnent of an acute circunnscribed abscess depends a great deal upon the clinical course of the case, and upon the etiological micro-organism. Upon general principles, change of air to an exhilarating place, food in a nutritious and easily digested form, and attention to the excretory functions are essential. Should the case be doing well, nothing more is necessary, but should the disease spread or remain stationary, then the advisability will have to be considered of adminis- tering a vaccine or an antitoxic serum, as may be indicated, in order to help the patient to acquire immunity. In the case of a stapJiylococcus infection, there is no antitoxic serum of particular value, and the use of vaccine would of necessity be the additional treatment. It is advisable to prepare the vaccine from a growth of the actual micro-organism which is the cause of the lesion, but this is not essential. A dose of 10 millions to EOO millions should be given, and very likely it will be necessary to give two or three more doses at intervals of fourteen days. In a case of streptococcus infection, in which extra immunizing power is wanted on the part of the patient, polyvalent antistrepto- coccic serum, in the hands of some surgeons, has been occasionally very successful; but I have seen no benefits derived from its use, although I have given it extensive trials in cases of pure and mixed streptococcus infection. In some cases I tried the serum from a horse which had been inoculated with the patient s own micro-organisms, but with no result, good or bad. This measure should be tried in all serious cases as a purely empirical treatment. The vaccine treatment also should be employed. The micro-organism should be cultivated from the seat of the disease, and a dose of from 1 million to 20 millions given about every ten days. In pneumococcal infections the antipneumococcic serum has not proved of much use in local lesions. Vaccines should be employed in cases which do not progress, and a dose of 5 millions to 100 millions may be given about every ten days in chronic cases. Against infections due to gonococcus the patient is best reinforced by vaccines ; there is no trustworthy antitoxic serum for this micro-