33 VACCINE TREATMENT in association witli the specific liaemolysin. Tlie test has met with a considerable measure of success, and is of special value in obscure late tertiary syphilis. Its theoretical basis is, however, still open to criticism. (For the technique, see p. 46.) In attempting to apply the results of the experimental investiga- tion of immimity to the treatment of infective disease, whether in man or in the lower animals, both passive and active immimizatiou has been extensively employed. In the passive method, immunity is sought to be conferred by the introduction into the patient of the antibodies present in the serum of immmiized animals, as, for example, in the antitoxins of diphtheria, plague, tetanus, and anthrax, as well as in those which have been prepared against a number of pyogenetic organisms. In the active method the patient is stimulated to produce his own antibodies by inoculation with a vaccine prepared from the actual causal agents of the disease itself. The principle of vaccination against specific disease was first placed upon a scientific basis by the work of Jenner in 1796, and has since been carried on with absolute success against variola. It was employed by Pasteur in his remarkable investigation of rabies, which culminated in the discovery of the extremely valuable method of treating that infection with which his name is always associated. More recently, and chiefly under the inspiration of Wright, it has rapidly sprung into somewhat general use in the jJrophylaxis and treatment ot a numl^er of bacterial infections of known origin, for example, in tuberculosis, cholera, typhoid infection, plague, and infections with pyogenetic micro-organisms, and the specific cocci (gonococcus, j^neu- mococcus, etc.). In association with its practical application, the theory of the production of opsonins in the blood-serum during the development of immunity has been elaborated by Wright. Following the important observations carried out by Leishman on the degree of phagoc}^osis which occurs in the blood of patients suft'ering from infective disease as compared with that in normal healthy blood, he devised a method by which the opsonizing action of a patient's serum for a particular bacterium can be compared with that of the serum of a normal person (see under Technique, p. 47). The ratio obtained is called the opsonic index. It is believed to aft'ord reliable information as to the degree of immunity attained by the individual mider observa- tion, and is made use of as a control and guide during his treatment by a series of inoculations with bacterial vaccine. The practical value of this vaccine treatment is a question upon which judgment must still to some extent be held in suspense. The results obtained in the various infective conditions in which it has up to the present been seriously attempted are dealt with in the succeeding article. D