PATHOLOGY OF HYDROPHOBIA S89 The cells of the spinal ganglia are especially vacuolated and exhibit a fatty granular degeneration. The elements of the neuroglia are hypertrophied, and there are collections of leucocytes around the degenerated cells. Nagy, in the laboratory of Hogyes at Budapest, has shown by Nissl's method a special process of chromatolysis of which the result is the disappearance of chromatin of the cell (Nissl's corpuscles). In the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic ganglia of two men dead from hydrophobia, van Geliuchten of Louvain observed lesions which he considered specific among rabic animals. They consisted of an abundant multiplication of the cells of the endothelial capsule, fol- lowed by a varying amount of destruction of nerve cells. These lesions are less pronounced in man than in the dog. They are particularly noticeable in the ganglion of the vagus nerve. Unfortunately, their absence has been frequently noted, and, on the other hand, they may be met with in certain aged subjects among those who succumb to syphilis, typhoid fever, cancer, or other infectious diseases. They have not, therefore, any very great diagnostic value. The discovery of bodies recently described by Negri presents much more interest. These bodies (the Negri bodies) are quite characteristic intracellular formations, localized principally in the large ganglion cell of the cornu amnionis. They are also found in the cells of Purkinje (cerebellum), in the Gasserian ganglion, in the pons, and in the large cells of the posterior brain. Elsewhere they are rare. Negri considers them to be parasites. To demonstrate them in sections he advises that, after fixation by Zenker's fluid, Mann's stain, prepared according to the following formula, should be used :— Solution of eosin 1 per cent. . . . .35 c.c. Solution of methylene blue 1 per cent. . . .3.5 c.c. Distilled water ....... 100 c.c. Stain for twenty-four hours, dehydrate in sodium alcohol (absolute alcohol 30 c.c, solution of soda 1 per cent. 5 drops) ; wash with acetic water ; dehydrate ; mount in Canada balsam. The Negri bodies appear as red points, or as little rings with a clear space in the centre. Most bacteriologists agree to-day that these cellular formations are not absolutely specific of hydrophobia, for the Negri bodies are absent from regions of the brain most rich in rabic virus, and are present in certain subjects who have succumbed to old age or different intoxica- tions—for example, arsenic. They seem to result from the particular selective actioJi of some poisons or toxins (among others that of rabic toxin) on the cells of the cornu ammonis or those of Purkinje.