64 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY to prevent all visible growth. It is therefore an advantage that about 2 per cent, of glucose should be added to the culture media in the case of this organism in order to remove any oxygen which may be taken up during the manipulation of the tubes. The tubes should also always be freshly autoclaved or boiled immediately before use, to drive out absorbed air. In the case of gelatin and agar which are melted by this process, the media should be rapidly solidified for use by placing the tubes on ice or in cold water. In bouillon the tetanus bacillus produces a uniform turbidity, which after three or four days settles down as a powdery deposit, leaving the fluid clear. In the young culture the bacilli are for the most part single, but, as it gets older, longer and longer threads appear in abundance and very few single organisms remain. There is a con- siderable production of gas. In a gelatin-stab (anaerobic) there is arborescent growth along the line of puncture and spreading laterally from it, the gelatin is slowly liquefied, the liquefaction becoming visible along the stab in about a week at 22° C, and gas is formed. The gas-production of this organism is important and must be emphasized, since for some reason it has often been said that gas is not produced in a pure culture. As a matter of fact, the formation of gas is one of the most characteristic features of pure tetanus cultures, especially when grown in glucose media. The gas consists mainly of a number of hj^drccarbons (methane, ethylene, etc.) and carbonic acid, with various other volatile bodies of offensive odour which produce a smell somewhat resembling that of burnt feathers. In an agar-stab the growth is very similar to that in gelatin, but more rapid (at 37° C), and the medium is of course not liquefied, but may be split up by the gas-formation. In coagulated blood-serum some strains of the organism produce slow liquefaction, while others do not. The bacillus grows readily in milk without producing acid or leading to coagulation of the medium. Its optimum temperature is about 37° C, and its hmits of growth from 14° C. to about 42° C. At 60° to 65° C. most of the vegetative forms (bacilli) are killed within half an hour, but the spores resist five minutes' boiling at 100° C. They are, howevtr, killed by five minutes' exposure to the action of steam. In artificial cultures spore-formation begins within 24 hours, and proceeds rapidly. The spores retain their vitality and virulence almost indefinitely in a dried condition if protected from the action of light (more than eleven years at any rate). According to Kitasato, 5 per cent, carbohc acid kills them in about 15 hours, and 1-1,000 corrosive subhmate solution in three hours.