SENILE GANGRENE 219 are not favourable, mild antiseptic or sterile dry dressings must be employed in tlie liope of preventing the enlargement of the sore. 7. Gangrene due to disease and degeneration of the vessels (senile gangrene).—Certain diseases and degenera- tive changes of arteries, leading to narrowing of their lumen and interference with their elasticity, though occasionally occurring in the young, are chiefly met with in later life. Hence the form of gangrene associated with them is known as senile gangrene. Of these, the most important are atheroma and annular calcification. Their development is due to the combined effect of a raised blood-pressure, the result of continued muscular exertion, and the circulation of the toxic substances present in syj^hilis, gout, rheumatism, Bright's disease, alcoholism, diabetes, and chronic lead-poisoning. The changes in the vessels may be the result of syphilis, and are then characterized by such marked hyperjjlasia of the tunica intima that the lumen of the small vessels may be completely obliterated ; or they may be arterio-sclerotic in character, the initial change being a small-celled proliferation commencing primarily in the deep layers of the intima or, according to some authorities, in the media. In this new sub- endothelial tissue, which may become definitely fibrous, fatty de- generation occurs and is sooner or later followed by the formation of calcareous plaques, which, besides converting the vessel into a rigid tube unable to contract or expand, frequently project into and obstruct its lumen. Calcareous degeneration may occur as a primary affection of the middle coat of small arteries. Owing to the circular arrangement of the muscles in which the lime salts are deposited, it is known as annular calcification. The briefest of references to the above pathological conditions will serve to emphasize the importance of arterial disease as a predis^Josing cause of senile gangrene. The small vessels, being converted into tor- tuous, rigid, narrow tubes, are unable to contract or dilate in response to the needs of the tissues, whose nutrition consequently suffers. In addition, their narrowness and tortuosity, by slowing the circulation, favours thrombosis, while the projection of calcareous plaques, or their escape into the blood-stream, determines it. Thrombosis, once com- menced, is encouraged by the roughness of the intima, and may extend in an upward direction, progressively cutting off the supply of blood to distal parts. As a consequence of these altered conditions, gangrene may follow the most trivial lesion—a pin-prick, a minute abrasion, a crack between the toes, a septic corn, amateur chiropody, pressure from tight boots, or sudden changes of temperature. The inflammatory reaction, though of no significance in health, being greater than the devitahzed tissues and narrow rigid vessels can cope with, leads to prolonged stasis and necrosis.