lO SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY whether the bacterial growth is fused together and presents a continuous mass, or appears in the form of separate colonies. A fused growth upon a surface may be thick and copious, or thin and scanty ; it may be smooth, or granular, or even wrinkled ; of a dry or moist appearance, and colourless, or fluorescent, or pigmented. The surface of the medium may be variously excavated by liquefaction. In the depth the points of special interest are the occurrence of gas-formation and of pigmentation, and in addition to these, where a stab culture is concerned, the manner of the growth is of importance. Thus it may result in liquefaction (e.g. in gelatin media), it may exhibit lateral offshoots from the vertical stem—the so-called " spiking — and it may be most luxuriant in the lower part of the stab, or near the surface, according as the presence of oxygen is or is not inimical to the organism concerned. When the growth is represented by separate colonies, additional information may be gained from an observation of the form and size, and of the outline, structure, density, and colour of these. In many cases the appearance of the surface colonies in pure cultures differs considerably from that presented by the deep colonies in shape, in size, and in outline. B. GENERAL BIOLOGY OF BACTERIA I. CONDITIONS OF LIFE . The conditions of life which affect bacteria may be considered first in respect of their absolute requirements or essential needs, and secondly in relation to the general effects produced by the particular character of their environment, and by variations in that environment. i. Essential needs.—For all bacteria a suitable supply of food, moisture, and inorganic salts is necessary to vegetative growth. In many cases also either the presence or the absence of oxygen may be absolutely essential, though in many others it is a matter of greater or less indifference. Temperature is of great importance to bacterial life, each variety exhibiting its optimum of growth between com- paratively narrow limits, though the range of possible growth may extend over a considerable number of degrees. All bacteria require carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and water, as well as salts, among which those of calcium and potassium are specially important. Some of them are able to obtain these sub- stances from quite simple sources, while others can only take them from more complex compounds, and others again appear to find a suit- able environment only within the body of a living animal. Accordingly they have been divided into such groups as " obligatory parasites,"