9o6 DISEASES DUE TO ANIMAL PARASITES LESIONS PRODUCED BY THE GUINEA=WORM The parasite.—Tlie female worm (Dracunculus medinensis) is cylimlrical in shape, yellowish-white in colour, and varies in length from 500 to 800 mm. or even more. Anteriorly is a triangular mouth opening surrounded by prominent papillae, while the posterior end is recurved on itself to form a sting or hook. The uterus extends throughout the whole length of the worm, its excretory duct opening- into the oesophagus, from which the embryos are discharged. The male worm (Leiper) is only 22 mm. long; it has been found in the muscles of an infected monkey. The distribution of the worm is limited to certain tropical countries, and then only within circum- scribed limits, and confined to certain sections of the population. Symptoms of infection.—The first sign may be a feeling of weight or a dull pain at one spot, and here a portion of the worm may be felt as a hard cord under the skin. More generally, a round, irritating lump is found in the subcutaneous tissues, over which a blister forms on the skin with much surrounding inflammation and induration. The vesicle becomes a pustule and bursts, leaving an ulcer I in. to f in. in diameter, in the centre of which is a tiny opening, sometimes plugged by the head of the worm. The ulcer discharges pus and embryos. In 85 per cent, of cases it is found just above the ankle, and less commonly on the wrist or back; rarely, it may be on any other part of the skin surface, and even under the conjunctiva, or in the knee-joint. There is usually only a single worm and a single ulcer, but there may be several ulcers, especially on the backs of water- carriers, or several worms may emerge from one large ulcer. General symptoms are usually insignificant, but may be very severe, with fever, oedema of hands and feet, rigors, vomiting, and delirium. Balfour and Powell have noted an eosinophilia varying from 6 to 36 per cent., and averaging 13'6 per cent. If cold water be squeezed on to the skin near the ulcer, a drop of wliitish fluid jets out of the central hole ; or " a beautifully pellucid tube, yV in. in diameter, is protruded from the opening. When this has been extruded an inch or thereabouts, it suddenly fills with an opaque whitish material, ruptures and collapses, the fluid spreading over the surface of the ulcer " (Manson). " This tube is the posterior dilated and thick-walled portion of the oesophagus, wliich becomes extruded through the mouth and is filled with embryos " (Looss). The ejection of embryos may occur almost every hour for several days until the uterus is quite empty. Treatment.—Douching with cold water allays irritation and hastens ejection of the embryos and expulsion of the worm ; as the latter protrudes it is caught in a cleft stick, or tied to it, and slowly rolled out (Fig. 247), extra turns being taken several times during the