764 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS at least required for cure, although the administrations are them- selves intermittent. The insoluble preparations used in this method are metallic mercury itself and calomel. Salicylate of mercury is also sometimes, though not nearly so frequently, employed. The yellow oxide which was originally used has long been superseded. Metallic mercury was introduced by Lang of Vienna, in the form of grey oil (oleum cinereum), consisting of mercury in a state of fine division suspended in a liquid fat; it contains 40 per cent, of mercury. Guided by an experience of twenty-five years of the use of metallic mercury, with ample opportunity of comparison with other methods, I am confirmed in my belief that although its thera- peutic intensity is less than that of calomel, its curative and preven- tive effects are greater, and that therefore it easily holds the premier place among the remedies for syphilis. Its advantages are :— 1. It is slowly absorbed and very slowly excreted, and therefore is superior in its lasting effects to the other preparations of mercury. As a general rule, the preparations that are quickly absorbed are quickly eliminated. The rate of absorption of mercury given by mouth is uncertain; the soluble salts of mercury and the salicylate of mercury given by injection are quickly absorbed and eliminated. Calomel is slowly but powerfully absorbed, and eliminated fairly quickly, whilst metallic mercury is very slowly absorbed and very slowly excreted. 2. It is less likely to produce stomatitis than are other pre- parations. 3. It requires to be injected only at comparatively long intervals. 4. It is practically painless. 5. With the single exception of calomel, the therapeutic intensity of metallic mercury is greater than that of any other preparation. It is better tolerated than calomel, and possesses curative and pre- ventive effects superior to those of calomel or any other mercurial preparation. 6. Its therapeutic effects are more lasting than those of any other preparations. This statement is strengthened by observation of the behaviour of the spirochsete under its influence. At the Military Hospital, Rochester Row, it was found that although the organisms disappear with about the same rapidity under almost any form of mercurial injection, they do not reappear on discontinuance until after a much longer period if metallic mercury has been used. Gagniere studied the modifications in the blood caused by injection of metallic mercury, and has demonstrated that the corpuscles and the hremogiobin increase after the second injection, and generally