6 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY some observers have regarded as a nucleus ; and in many cases (iii) ■ flagella projecting outwards from the envelope. The cell body may also contain a greater or less amount of (iv) pigment. i. Envelope.—The envelope is a thin membrane, the presence of which can be well shown by the method of plasmolysis. Its outer limits are usually ill defined, probably owing to a tendency to take up fluid from the surrounding medium and become swollen out, thus producing the appearance of a halo. Such a halo when sufficiently well marked is termed a capsule. The presence or absence of a definite capsule is accordingly found in many cases to depend to a great extent upon the condition under which the particular organism has grown. The chemical constitution of the envelope is albuminous in character, but in some cases varying amounts of carbohydrate (e.g. cellulose) are said to be present, as for example in the common sarcina of the stomach (Sarcina ventricuU). ii. Protoplasm.—The protoplasm is a semi-fluid material yielding on examination proteins, salts, and wat?r as well as various metabolic substances. In appearance it is homogeneous or finely granular, newly-formed cells being usually quite homogeneous, but be- coming granular and often vacuolated as they develop. In old cells almost the whole of the interior may be occupied by several vacuoles, or more usually by a single large one. The " granules," which may vary in number from only one or two to half a dozen, show a great avidity for certain aniline dyes, and have in consequence been spoken of as " chromatin " granules. One or more of them has sometimes been supposed to represent a nucleus, but that this is actually the case is very improbable, since they have never been observed to divide during the division of the bacterial cell. Other well-defined, strongly refractile granules are to be found in particular groups of bacteria, and have been shown to consist of sulphur in a free condition. The bacterial proteins appear to contain on analysis rather less nitrogen than animal proteins (about 1 per cent, less), and have accordingly been grouped together under a special heading as myco- proteins. They are in many respects akin to the nucleins, but differ from them in that in some cases, at any rate, phosphorus has not been shown to be a necessary constituent. iii. Flagella.—By far the greater number of motile bacteria are provided with flagella. These are whip-like processes projecting from the bacterial envelope, but almost certainly arising fi'om the cell- protoplasm within. They can best be d:monstrated by special staining methods, though they can also be seen by using reflected light on a dark background. They may be terminal (polar), and may then be single as in the comma bacillus {Vibrio cholera? asiaticce), or several in number, as for example in the B. cyanogenes of blue milk ; or they