300 BURNS AND SCALDS Pharmacopoeial preparation, as in the usual strength it often pro- duces a papular eruption. Both boro-glyceride and zinc ointment have their place, the latter being often conveniently combined with equal parts of castor oil. Ointments containing balsam of Peru or tinct. benzoinse co. are of service when a stimulating application is required. As a non- irritating, non-toxic, but fairly powerful germicide, a 1 per cent, solu- tion of aluminium acetate is extremely useful. Some even use it as a primary dressing in burns, to the exclusion of picric acid. Exuberant and redundant granulations must be kept in check by the use of caustics, and sometimes by free scraping under an anaesthetic. Wherever possible, the large ulcers arising from burns should be skin-grafted after the method of Thiersch. Care should be taken, by the timely use of splints, to prevent the occurrence of those deformities of the limbs which are so apt to result from contracting scars. At a later stage, various plastic operations have to be planned for dealing with flexed limbs and other deformi- ties that may have been produced. Amongst other complications which occasionally arise may be mentioned secondary hfemorrhage; this may take place from a large vessel in very deep burns, or, more commonly, from superficial veins during the separation of sloughs in burns of the fourth degree. Haemorrhage from superficial veins occurs in about 2 per cent, of burns; and it is usually the upper extremity that is affected. I have never seen it in children. When it is met with it is to be treated by the usual hsemostatic measures. Tetanus is a much rarer complication than was formerly the case, and is to be treated on the usual lines. Children sufjering from burns not infrequently present certain symptoms, including a scarlatiniform rash, which sometimes occa- sion anxiety, especially if cases of scarlet fever are numerous in the neighbourhood. The question of isolation naturally arises ; but, as a rule, the rash is merely a toxic one. Still, it is wise to err on the side of safety and to isolate in any doubtful case. SCALDS OF THE PHARYNX These cases usually occur in infants and young children through the swallowing of hot fluids. It is not the injury received by the mucous membrane of the mouth and tongue that causes much appre- hension, but the oedema of the upper aperture of the larynx which always, to a greater or less degree, follows such injury. On this account a child with a history of a recent scald of the mouth should be kept under close observation. Otherwise, though apparently but little injured when first seen, he may be brought back to the surgeon in the small hours of the night dying of sufiocation and rec|uiring imme-