153 SKIN-GRAFTING matous and undergo degenerative changes, while others may become enclosed in the granulation tissue. As soon, however, as a supporting structure is constituted, the cells form a thin pellicle, which, if the wound is not too extensive, develops into a complete epithelial cover- ing in from two to five days. In small, shallow, incised wounds the epithelial covering may be complete in forty-eight hours, whilst in large granulating surfaces months may be recjuired unless the process is aided by skin-grafting. In healthy wounds a thin bluish-white line is seen at the edges, and on microscopical examination this is observed to be the new epithelium—at first, it may be, only a few cells in thick- ness. It is more or less firmly adherent to the surface, but can be rubbed off by even moderately rough treatment during the applica- tion or removal of dressings. As the healing process advances, the layers of epithelial cells increase in number, the cells towards the surface become flattened and cornified; whils. those in the deeper layers are rounded, oval, or spindle-shaped, and it may be difficult to distinguish some of them from the fibroblasts of the granulation tissue on whicli they rest. The cells at the growing margin of the epithelium are often very irregular in shape, and may be separated from one another by the leucocytes of the exudate. When the covering is com- plete the exudation ceases and the proliferative changes in the deeper layers of the epithelium become very active, the degenerative ones being now absent. Skin-grafting.—This subject will be dealt with elsewhere, and here it is only necessary to discuss the reactive phenomena which follow the transplantation of the epithelial cells—the phenomena which are concerned in the healing jjrocess. In from twenty-four to thirty-six hours the fragments of epithelium become firmly adherent to the surfaces of the granulations, and in forty-eight hours the pale-bluish line of newly formed epithelium can be seen. This new epithelium, spreading from different centres, soon coalesces, and so large areas of granulation tissue may become com- pletely covered in a few days. Microscopical examination shows that the adhesion of the grafts is brought about by the exudation of fibrin between them and the tissue on which they are placed. Usually the growth of the epithelium is from the more active cells of the deeper layers, the more superficial cells degenerating and being cast off. The definite papillary structure of the new epithelium may not be marked for several months. HEALING IN NON-VASCULAR TISSUES 1. Repair of wounds of the cornea.—If the wound involves only the superficial epithelial layers, repair takes place by a prolifera- tion of the cells at the margin of the wound, the condition being quite