552 TUMOURS intussusception, very strildng instances of which have been met with in tumours of the ileo-colic valve. Secondary deposits are common in the lymphatic glands, liver and peritoneum, but metastases in the limgs and bones are very exceptional. The invasion of the peritoneum by lymphatic permeation may reach the extreme degree already described in cancer of the stomach, and if the secondary deposits undergo colloid degeneration, the peritoneal cavity may be extensively occupied by large gelatinous masses. In this connexion it is interesting to recall what has already been said with regard to the condition known as " pseudomyxoma peritonei," which sometimes follows the escape of mucinous material into the peritoneal cavity from a ruptured ovarian cyst, for the appearances presented to the naked eye, and even under the microscope, may in such cases be very suggestive of colloid carcinoma (p. 443). Striking instances of a similar condition following rupture of the vermiform appendix and discharge of mucus therefrom have been recorded by Fraenkel, Trotter and others. In Trotter's case it was found when the abdomen was opened, about a month after an attack of appendicitis, that the omentum, peritoneum, caecum and ascending colon were thickly covered with rounded gelatinous translucent masses, and the case was regarded as one of colloid carcinoma, even after microscopic examination of part of the omentum, which was removed. A further study of the specimen and of recorded cases of pseudomyxoma arising from the appendix convinced Trotter that the case was of this nature—a, view which was supported by the fact that eighteen months after the operation the patient presented no evidence of abdominal disease. By the direct extension of the primary growth, fistulous communi- cations with neighbouring parts, such as the bladder, vagina, neigh- bouring coils of intestine, or even the stomach, may be established, or perforation into the peritoneal cavity may occur. It is, however, a matter of practical importance that when a malignant stricture of the lower part of the large intestine proves fatal by perforation, the perforation often occurs, not at the seat of the tumour, but through the base of one of the multiple follicular ulcers frequently present above the seat of obstruction, especially in the cajcum. An intestinal carcinoma has sometimes been Imown to extend through the umbilicus. Mention must again be made of the frequency with which an ulcerating carcinoma of the intestine is complicated by suppuration. The practical interest of this lies largely in the fact that the true nature of the disease may be overlooked should abscess-formation occur early in the course of an intestinal cancer which has not yet produced any marked symptoms, as, for instance, when the disease is in the csecum. It should also be noted that certain inflammatory affections may simulate carcinoma of the bowel. Thus, to refer again