X-RAY EXAMINATION 640 sequestrum, can be seen. An abscess of this kind occurring in the shaft some distance from a joint may find its way towards the epiphysis, and, having involved its cancellous tissue, may affect the joint secondarily. This occurred in the above case ; the inflammatory pro- cess can be traced in the radiogram extending from the abscess ca\itv, and affecting the lower epiphysis. Plate 58, Fig., 3, is a radiogram of the upper end of the tibia wliich shows, in tTie position indicated, a local tuberculous osteitis in connexion with the upper epiphysis. The encroachment of the disease on the shaft and epiphysis, as de- noted by decrease in the normal density of the bone in a circumscribed area, is clearly shown. In connexion with this form of the disease a deep abscess of bone may be present. Tuberculous disease affect- ing the medullary canal and the shaft of a long bone, accomjjanied by periostitis, presents radiographically the appearance to be seen in Fig. 4. TUMOURS OF BONE Exostosis.—The nature, position, and size of these tumours growing from bone can readily be demonstrated by X-ray examination. Their appearance is characteristic. Plate 59, Fig. 1, illustrates pedun- culated exostosis of the femur. In contradistinction to this, Fig. 2 shows a sessile exostosis growing from the humerus in the position indicated. A further example of a tumour of this variety, growing from the outer aspect of the tibia, displacing the fibula, and producing a form of dislocation of the ankle-joint, is to be seen in Fig. 3. Sarcoma. Endosteal.—Sarcomas are easily differentiated from abscess or chronic osteo-periostitis by X-ray examination. In such tumours the normal uniform dark shadows cast by bone are replaced by shadows which are not imiform, lighter areas which correspond with the soft parts of the tumour being seen at irregular intervals. The encroachment of sarcoma on normal bone produces a character- istic appearance, for no separation or thickening of the periosteum is to be observed, and where bone has been replaced by the more trans- lucent material of the tumour no abrupt line of demarcation exists. Compact bone resists encroachment longer than cancellous, and there- fore the invasion of sarcomatous tissue results in the translucent sarcoma being surrounded by compact bone to a greater or less extent. Two examples of endosteal sarcoma, one from the upper end of the radius and another from the head of the humerus, are shown in Plate 59, Fig. 4, and Plate 60, Fig. 1. Periosteal.—The radiographic appearance of sarcoma of this variety affecting the outer surface of the bone differs from that of the former variety, and is in accordance with its rapid growth and local origin. The bone at the site of the growth is replaced hy more trans-