474 TUMOURS in character. A want of knowledge of this fact is too often the reason which induces a patient to delay seeldng early medical advice, and unfortunately sometimes leads the practitioner to fall into the same error. Thus, a carcinoma of the rectum may reach a most advanced stage without causing even slight pain, or, in fact, any symptom to indicate that serious disease exists, and the practitioner who is misled by this is likely to omit the only means of detecting the disease in its early stage, viz. proper examination of the rectum. The special methods available for the examination of such parts as the oesophagus, bladder, and lower bowel must never be neglected in a case in which even the slightest suspicion exists that malignant disease of these parts may be present. The rate of growth of an accessible tumour is also of small value as a proof of malignancy. It is undoubtedly true that a soft cellular sarcoma usually increases rapidly, but many forms of carcinoma progress very slowly, and a rodent ulcer may, after even many years, attain only very small proportions. It may indeed be said that in the early stages there is no pathognomonic symptom of a malignant tumour. Much importance was formerly attached to the general deterioration of health sometimes met with in malignant disease, and known as the cancerous cachexia. The condition is characterized by emaciation and ansemia, with often an earthy, sallow tint of the skin, great weakness, feeble pulse, loss of appetite, and temperature sometimes elevated sometimes subnormal. From what has been already said, this con- dition must not be regarded as a special feature of the disease, but rather as an evidence of its advanced stage. Cachexia is particularly strildng when widely spread metastases are present, especially in the viscera ; it is often the result of chronic septic poisoning such as occurs when ulceration of the growth has occurred, and is frequently intensified by the occurrence of repeated haemorrhages. Some of the most distressing cases of this land are those of inoperable car- cinoma about the mouth and throat, associated, perhaps, with ulcerated masses of secondary deposit in the lymphatic glands of the neck. The duration of life in untreated cases of malignant disease varies within the widest limits, for, whilst certain forms of sarcoma and carcinoma may prove fatal in a few months, in some instances a carcinoma may be present for many years with very little interference with the general health. This is strikingly seen in many cases of rodent cancer of the sldn; but even in the more common forms of the disease, such as cancer of the rectum and cancer of the breast, life may sometimes be prolonged for many years. A study of the average duration of life, derived from statistical records of the different forms of malignant disease as it occurs in