TRKATMKNT OF ACUTE INFLAMMATION 141 from the pressure of the exudate, and will |)r('ci])itate tluonibosis when .slouinu of the l)ln()d-sti'('a!n oi' stasis is alrcadx' prrsi'iit. Local treatment.- Tlic iiitroduciiun nj' liicr's hvjxTa'mic method as a routine treatment lni- all inllammation seemed at first si^ht to 1)0 so absolutely opposed tn the old methods of treatment, in w Incii tlic cliii'f aim was stated to be to relieve the congestion, that it is advisable bne|l\- to i'e\'iew the tlieoiA' of the treatment of intlaniniat ion. It is now generally recognized that intlanimation is not in its(»ll' ;i liarndul process. It is e\Mdence of the existence of a harmful pro- cess in the shape of a l)a( terial invasion. Moreover, it is ill large part the attempt on the part of the body to resist that invasion. Diminu- tion of the severity of the inflammatory phenomena accompanies the \-ictorv of the tissues o\-(>i' the attack'. This is not evidence that the body has overcome the inllammation, but that it has overcome the ])acterial invasion which was the cause of the inhammation. The iii- flamnuition subsides when the defeat of the bacterial invasion removes the cause. It is therefore necessary to dismiss the idea that intlam- nuition is in itsell' dangerous. It is a danger signal (.\dami). Bier, indeed, in his hypera-mic treatment aims at increasing hypera-niia. and incidentally the swelling and redness which are the cardinal signs of iidiammation : and his method of treatment has been very widelv adojJted. though ])erhaps less in this country than elsewhere. From time immemorial, however, it has lieen lookeil u])on as the greatest indication, in treating inilammation. to reduce the local congestion. The clinical oliservation that allowing the arm to hang down when a finger is inflamed causes the pain to become intense and throbbing, whereas raising the arm gives immediate relief, has so overshadowed the discussion on intiammarion that it has been sought to prove that any and every successful measure adojjted in the treatment of inflam- mation has for its rationale the diminution of congestion. Heat is almost universally included in textbooks under the means of reliev- ing congestion, and manv theories are advanced as to the wav in which it does this. That heat diminishes congestion seems to me to be an untenable hypothesis, and contrary to all experience. Cold, on the other hand, undoubtedly diminishes congestion—at any rate, of the more superficial parts, but its use in inflammatory affections of the skin, where its action in reducing congestion would be most potent, is condenuied. It cannot be denied that, except in ca.ses of trau- matism, heat is the means nearly always employed in the treatment of inflammation, to the exclusion of cold. So. if it be accepted that heat prodiu-es hypeia'mia. it would seem that the production of liyper- a inia has alwa\-s lieen the most commonly atlo])ted method of treat- ing inflamn\ation. On the other hand, it must l)e recognized that