SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 26 themselves, the local production of toxic substances and their diiiusion through the body in the circulating fluids may lead to severe general intoxication. In the case of the best-known specific infections the micro-organisms usually enter by one of the mucous surfaces (e.g. respiratory, ali- mentary), except in the case of tetanus and hydrophobia, which are wound infections, of syphilis, where the infection usually gains an entrance through some slight abrasion, and of the " fly inoculations " (malaria, yellow fever, plague, and trypanosomiasis). Ordinary pyo- genetic organisms usually enter by wounds, ulcerations, or abrasions of the body surface. 2. MODES OF SPREAD The comtnonest and most natural mode of spread of infecting micro-organisms is by continuity of tissue either in the substance of an organ or along a surface. Along the mucous surfaces the spread is naturally most usual and most rapid in the direction of the normal flow of fluids. Discontinuous spread may also occur along the natural passages of the body, as, for example, when sputum from a tuberculous lung is swallowed and infects the alimentary canal, or when the gall- bladder is infected from the intestine without the bile-duct being involved in the inflammation. General dissemination of the infection is brought about by the escape of micro-organisms into the lymphatic circulation or the blood-stream. It must also be remembered that the phagocytes themselves may actually assist in spreading an infection by carrying off micro-organisms in their protoplasm, and being subsequently destroyed by the bacteria, which are then free to multiply in their new situation. Other modes of spread that may be mentioned are by rupture of an abscess into a body cavity or blood-vessel, by transference along the perineural lymphatics, or by passage along the lymphatics from an infected area to reach a body cavity or lymphatic space, as, for example, from the auditory or the nasal j^assages to the meninges of the brain. 3. ACTION OF PATHOGENETIC MICRO-ORGANISMS The mode of action of invading micro-organisms on the tissues of the body must of necessity be either mechanical or chemical in * character. The former is of relatively slight importance owing to the minute size of the organisms in question. When they are massed together in enormous numbers they may succeed in forming capillary emboli. But in the vast majority of cases of infective embolism it is detached blood-clot containing bacteria, not the bacteria themselves, which causes the obstruction.