842 COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRHCEA For severe pain, belladonna or morphia suppositories are valuable. If the urinary retention persists in spite of morpliia and hot applications, the water must be drawn off with a soft rubber catheter. As soon as an abscess is detected it should be opened, the incision being made through the perineum by choice. Rectal drainage is to be avoided if possible, but if the abscess be on the point of bursting into the rectum, it may be opened there. CHRONIC PROSTATITIS It is necessary now to draw attention to this frequent, though rarely recognized, complication, a condition which has, perhaps, more influence in keeping up the chronic urethritis than any yet discussed. Chronic prostatitis generally develops insidiously during the course of a chronic urethritis, less frequently as the continuation of an acute prostatitis. It arises as one of the consequences of the gonorrhoea spreading to the posterior urethra and infecting the prostatic glands. A chronic desquamative catarrh of these glands is set up, which has little or no tendency either to spread to the parenchyma of the prostate or to form an abscess. The importance of this disease lies not so much in the symptoms it creates as in the difiiculty with which it is eradicated. Long after the gonococci have disappeared from the urethral secretion they can frequently be found in the expressed prostatic secretion. And so long as a focus of gonorrhoeal inflammation persists in the prostate, the patient is naturally liable to a recurrence of the urethritis. Symptoms.—Chronic catarrhal prostatitis gives rise to no very characteristic subjective symptoms. The diagnosis rests almost solely upon the microscopical examination of the secretion. The patient usually presents the ordinary symptoms of chronic posterior urethritis —a slightly increased frequency of micturition, and some sexual irritability or disturbance, a feeling of weight or oppression about the neck of the bladder; and threads may be traced in the second portion of the urine. Often the most marked symptom is a grave disturb- ance of the general nervous system. The patient becomes very hypo- chondriacal, and highly exaggerates liis symptoms and the severity of his complaint, and he is very apt to develop into a chronic sexual neurasthenic. All subjective symptoms may, however, be, and frequently are, entirely absent; and it is not until the prostatic secretion is examined that the disease is recognized. For the purpose of microscopical examination the prostatic fluid is best obtained by first instructing the patient to pass water, so as thoroughly to clear the urethra from its secretion, then—while the patient kneels on a couch—gently stroking the prostate from behind forwards with the index finger,