SARCOMA A sarcoma of the mamma shows for a considerable time a strildug tendency to encapsulation, a definite fibrous layer intervening between the tumour substance and the surrounding tissues. The spindle- celled variety is the most common, but round-celled sarcoma, alveolar sarcoma, and myxo-sarcoma also occur, and in rare instances true cartilage has been present in the tumour. In the softer forms, hsemor- rhagic extravasations and cystic changes are common. The tumour presents clinical features which are in many respects intermediate between a soft fibro-adenoma on the one hand and a soft carcinoma on the other. Thus, although not presenting the free independent mobility of a fibro-adenoma, it does not attach itself to the surrounding structures so early as a carcinoma. Glandular enlargement may be absent even in the later stages. The tumour, if allowed to continue its growth, may reach a very large size, and eventually will fungate through the skin in the manner alread}^ described (p. 4U2). The diagnosis of the disease from various cystic conditions and from the other soft, solid tumours of the breast is beset with difficulty, but excision of the suspected tumour will usually enable the surgeon to decide whether or not to proceed at once to the complete opera- tion on the same lines as adopted for carcinoma. Dissemination by way of the blood-stream may occur, but in some cases of sarcoma of the breast the malignancy is chiefly manifested by local recurrence after operation, tlie recurrences being sometimes spread over a period of many years. Sarcoma of the thyroid gland is probably less common than carcinoma, and is usually of the simple round- or spindle-celled variety. It can hardly be distinguished clinically from soft carcinoma, although Berry points out that ordinarily it is of more rapid growth and shows a greater tendency to be limited to one lobe. The invasion of the surroimding structures, especially the trachea and lymphatic glands, soon renders the disease inoperable. Sarcoma of the brain is much less common than glioma, but may occur as the round- or spindle-celled form, or as a glio- sarcoma. A sarcoma of the brain substance may be indistinguishable with the naked eye fi'om a glioma, but differs fi-om it in its tendency to involve the membranes, and even the bone. Sarcoma of nerves.—Sarcoma of the large nerve trunks is very rare, and has been met with chiefly in the lower limbs, the sciatic nerve being most commonly affected. Among the recorded cases the spindle-celled form has been the most frequent, but round- celled sarcoma and myxo-sarcoma have been met with. The tumour caused by a sarcoma of a large nerve trunk may attain a large size ; it tends to become lemon-shaped as the result of the extension of the growth for a short distance into the nerve trunk at each pole of