REPAIR In discussing these processes reference has mainly been made to those changes which are concerned in the formation of new, fibrous tissue, because they certainly are the most pronounced and probably the most important ; but associated with them there are changes, partly of a degenerative and partly of a reparative kind, in muscle, elastic tissue, epithelium, etc. These, however, will be more conveni- ently discussed separately when dealing with the healing of special tissues. 2. The healing process as seen in an ulcer: healing by granulation.—The processes are essentially the same as those seen in an incised wound, but in the ulcer there ma}^ be a large gap to fill up, and there is commonly a considerable amount of damaged tissue to be removed. The healing is a slower process, and the degenerative changes, which go on side by side with the proliferative ones, are much more pronounced. The granulation tissue is always well developed, but on examination it is seen to consist of vascular capillary loops and a supporting structure of prohferated and proliferating connective- tissue cells, which appear at first parallel with the vessels, and at a later time at riglit angles to them. In the later stages of repair the connective tissue is formed in greater abundance and in a more irregular fashion in an ulcer than in an incised wound. Leucocyte emigration and transudation of lymph are more pronounced, and continue throughout the heaHng process, and, in consequence, a serous or a purulent discharge is a constant phenomenon and the granulation tissue often becomes swollen and cedematous on account of the infiltration with lymph. The characters of the granulation tissue vary in different situa- tions according to the character of the tissue to be repaired and accord- ing to the nature of the irritant. Thus, in situations where bone or other resistant tissues have to be removed, and where there must in consequence be preliminary softening, cells of a special type are frequently brought into the field. These are multinucleated masses of protoplasm, which are apparently formed by the fusion of several mononucleated phagocytes. These cells may be found in any situa- tion, but they are specially abundant where it is necessary to bring about the softening and removal of bone and such resistant tissues. Special characters due to the nature of the irritant are seen in cases of tuberculosis or syphilis. In wounds infected by the organism of either of these diseases, areas of caseation and the presence of giant cells which show a definitely caseous centre are seen, and the growth of the fibrous tissue may be considerably modified. The granulations, too, are usually flabby, pale, and exuberant in type. 3. Healing where the edges of the wound remain in contact and where sepsis is absent: primary union,