306 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES channels into the emptying vascular system. This causes a greater coagulability of the blood, and the change from fibrinogen to fibrin is brought about with great rapidity. Severe haemorrhage therefore favours its own natural arrest. A point of importance to be noted here is that whilst retraction of the coats of the vessel helps the natural arrest of haemorrhage if the vessel be cut completely across, it will hinder it if the vessel be only partly severed. The retraction in this case will cause the wound in the vessel to gape, and thus favour the loss of blood. These lateral wounds, even in small arteries or veins, will often bleed severely, but arrest can frequently be brought about by completely severing the vessel, retraction then tending to check the haemorrhage. Permanent arrest.—A wound in an artery heals in exactly the same way as a wound in any other tissue : by the formation of granulation tissue, which joins the cut surfaces together and then gradually changes to fibrous tissue that contracts and finally seals and obliterates the lumen of the blood-vessel. The coagulum takes no part in the final healing of the wound in the vessel, except to form a scafi'old on which the granulation tissue is laid down. The granu- lation tissue is formed by a multiplication of the original cells of the part, including the endothelial cells of the vessel, whilst the new capillaries are budded out from the vasa vasorum. The coagulated blood is gradually removed by the phagocytes, and its place taken by the granulation tissue. Fibres of white fibrous tissue are then formed in the granulation tissue and stretch across the gap in the vessel, which thus becomes permanently sealed by a mass of fibrous tissue. Recovery from hfemorrhage is not, however, coincident with either the temporary or the permanent arrest of the blood flow, for the general effects have to be considered, and recovery can only be said to occur when the quantity and quality of the blood in the body have been restored to normal. Shortly after a severe hsemorrhage the specific gravity of the blood is found to be lowered, showing a diminution in the solids in solution and an increase in the water; a leucocytosis is also present, nucleated red blood-corpuscles are seen, and the red cells are diminished in number and in their individual haemoglobin content. The condition of the blood is that of a secondary ansemia. In the case of a young subject recovery from this ansemia is rapid, especially if food be freely taken and iron be given ; but in an elderly patient it is slow, the blood-forming organs being partially exhausted, so that in old age a severe haemorrhage leaves traces in a permanent ansemia and a lessened vitality of all the tissues.