CLINICAL FEATURES OF LEPROSY 857 it is a little smaller. It may be as acid-fast as the tubercle bacillus, but in many cases is rather less so, and is decolorized with 25 per cent, acid more quickly than the latter. It stains rather more readily. As several observers have recently shown, it can be cultivated, though not on the artificial media on which tubercle can be grown readily. In the skin lesions of tuberculate leprosy it is very numerous and is usually foimd in small, dense clumps, whilst in skin lesions due to the tubercle bacillus this micro-organism is found with difficulty. Like most of the aUied organisms, the lepra bacillus causes the formation of a round-celled growth or granuloma, but the amount of this growth is very small in re- lation to the number of bacilli found. The lepra granuloma is vascular, shows no tendency to suppuration or caseation, and does not contain giant cells. Clinical appearances. — In tuberculate leprosy (Figs. 231, 232) there is either a diffuse infiltration of the skin and subcutaneous tissues, or definite nodules of various sizes are formed. Usually both con- ditions are present, so that the features and the ears are swollen and covered with large and small tense nodules. The face and the ears are the earliest parts to be attacked most severely, but the arms and other parts of the body may be impli- Fig. 233.—Hands in old case of cated. The "hair falls out and anaesthetic leprosy, the hair-roots are destroyed in the affected areas, even when there are no visible tubercles. For this reason the hairs on the eyebrows are often lest early in the disease. The mucous surfaces of the nose, pharynx, and larynx are often implicated, sometimes before there is much disease of the skin. In the anaesthetic type one or more nerves in the body are affected. The ulnar nerve, or rather both ulnar nerves, and other nerve-trunks that are subcutaneous iii their course are most severely affected. Loss of sensation and distm-bed nutrition of the parts sup- plied by the affected nerve occur. Wasting of the deep muscles of the hand, and contraction-flexion of the little and ring fingers (Fig. 233), may be the earliest sign of leprosy to attract attention.