GONORRHOEA 8o8 proper understanding of the pathology, symptoms, and treatment of gonorrhoea. ACUTE URETHRITIS This disease is caused by an inoculation of the urethral mucous membrane at the meatus with the specific virus, the gonococcus, and soon extends as an acute catarrhal inflammation as far as the bulb, but not, in favourable circumstances, beyond it. If the inflamma- tion spreads beyond the bulb to the posterior urethra, this extension must be regarded as a distinct complication, which brings in its train new and unfavourable symptoms, and calls for a different mode of treatment. ACUTE ANTERIOR URETHRITIS Incubation.—The period of incubation between the inoculation with the virus and the appearance of the first symptoms of the disease varies within certain limits. It may be as brief as one or two days, or it may extend to two, or even three weeks, but in three-fourths of the cases it is confined within the limits of one week. Most com- monly the first symptoms are noticed on the third or the fourth day after infection. It rarely occurs that the period of incubation is less than two days. Instances recorded as such are generally to be explained as exacerbations of latent chronic gonorrhoea, and not as fresh infections. Symptoms.—Generally, the first symptom noticed by the patient is a slight burning or tinghng sensation felt at the end of the penis, especially on micturition. The lips of the meatus then become swollen, everted, and moistened with a slight, tenacious, mucous secretion, which rapidly becomes copious and purulent. During the next few days the pain on micturition increases considerably, so much so that the patient dreads to make water. The discharge rapidly passes from clear mucus to muco-pus, and then to thick creamy yellow or greenish- yellow pus, which is secreted so profusely as to be constantly dropping from the meatus. As a rule, the penis is red and swollen, and the prepuce oedematous, so that the glans is uncovered with difiiculty. Not infrequently the lymphatics of the organ are inflamed, and appear as thin red streaks in the integuments of the penis, and the lymphatic glands of the groin are swollen and tender. Distressing sexual symptoms are seldom absent, the inflammatory irritation of the parts inducing increased sexual desires. In the earliest stages of the disease this condition often provokes the patient to sexual excesses ; but, as the inflammation increases, all voluptuous feelings are lost in the intense pain which an erection of the inflamed organ evokes. These painful erections, often accompanied by seminal