768 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 9. The best sites for injection are— (a) The upper third of the buttock. (6) The retrotrochanteric fossa, and (c) The lumbar muscles. 10. The injection is to be completed in one stage. 11. In the case of the insoluble preparations of mercury the injection should be given once a week at most. Dosage by the intramuscular rr ethod.—No absolutely definite rule can be laid down, for, as already seen, each patient tolerates mercury to a different degree, so that the best dose for a given patient can only be determined by careful observation of the individual case. The following circumstances to a certain extent govern the dosage :— 1. Type of syphilis.—As already pointed out, the dose of mercury which will dissipate an ordinary roseolar rash will probably have no effect on a papular or a pustular eruption. 2. Condition of the patient.—A strong, healthy individual will, as a rule, require a larger dose than a weakly one. 3. Cases of "malignant" or "virulent" syphilis require smaller doses than ordinary ones.—The maximum dose of metallic mercury should not exceed gr. 1| (^Ixv) of the cream. I get far better results with this reduced dosage than formerly with larger amounts. The maximum dose of calomel shoidd be gr. J ("Ixv) of the calomel cream. This is given once a week, and seldom continued after the fourth injection, when the metallic cream is substituted. Intermissions.—The treatment should be of an intermittent character, the injection; being given in courses separated by intervals in which none are administered, these rest intervals being gradually increased in length as the case progresses. Although no arbitrary rule can be laid down as to dosage, intervals between injection, and length of treatment, it is prudent to follow a definite plan. The following is my own :— 1. A course of six weeks' treatment, involving 6 mercurial injections (4 of which are calomel). 2. Two months' interval without injection. 3. Two months' treatment = 8 mercurial injections (metallic). 4. Four months' rest. 5. Two months' treatment = 8 mercurial injections (metallic). 6. Six months' rest. 7. One month's treatment = four mercurial injections. 8. Four months' rest. 9. Two months' treatment = 8 injections. In giving this tabular statement it cannot be too strongly impressed on the reader that it is only intended as a broad guide, and that it is not to be followed slavishly.