499 SARCOMA OF BONE endothelial sarcoma with mucoid degeneration in the centre of the cell masses. In speaking of non-ulcerated tumours at the back of the tongue it may not be out of place to refer to the occasional presence of a tumour having the structure of the thp-oid gland in tlie position of the foramen caecum, and to remind our readers that such a " tumour " may be associated with absence of the normal gland. Sarcoma of bone is undoubtedly the most important example of this form of malignant disease. The malignancy of bone sarcomas, excluding the myelomas or " myeloid sarcomas" which are now by most observers recognized as benign growths, is extremely high. Indeed no more malignant affection can be imagined tlian a periosteal sarcoma of the shaft of the femur in a young subject. Probably no part of tlie skeleton is exempt, but in considering the most important features of sarcoma of the bones it will be convenient to restrict our remarks chiefly to the long bones of tlic limbs, in which the disease is most common. Sarcoma of the long bones occurs in two forms—the central or endosteal, and the periosteal. Of these the latter is by far the more common, the difference being probably much greater than most statistics on the subject suggest, because of the inclusion in these statistics of myelomas among the central sarcomas. Both forms tend to commence in the articular extremity rather tlian in the shaft. This is especially true of the endosteal tumours, which are exceedingly rare except at the extremity. A central sarcoma, as it increases in size, causes " expansion of the compact wall of the bone (Fig. 123), wliich usually becomes pro- gressively thinned until at one or more spots the bony shell becomes completely destroyed and the tumour substance projects beneath tlie periosteum and in its furtlier growth behaves like a tumour beginning in this situation. Even without any defect in the bone visible to the naked eye, a central sarcoma may reach the exterior by way of the vascular channels in the osseous tissue. The extraordinary extent to which a bone may be expanded by a central sarcoma is most strikingly illustrated by the macerated specimens which are to be fomid in all pathological museums. The process is, of course, not a mechanical one. Whilst the osseous tissue is destroyed from within by the growth of the tumour, fi-esh periosteal bone is being deposited externally, and thus, especially in the earlier stages, the bone may become thicker and not thinner as it is undergoiaig expansion. A central sarcoma often extends along the medullary canal far beyond the limits of the enlarged part of the bone. A periosteal sarcoma, especially when affecting the shaft, tends to spread around the whole circumference of the bone, sometimes without