396 TUMOURS the antrum; in the mandible it may be central or iDeriosteal. Ivory-like osteomas of the mandible are most likely to occur in the region of the angle. Another unusual site for an osteoma is the external auditory meatus, where the growth may be either ivory-like or cancellous. Loss of hearing and other results may follow the blockage of the meatus. It is doubtful if a true osteoma ever occurs except in connexion with the skeleton, and probably small tumours of the skin and other parts which have been described as bony would prove on investigation to be merely calcareous. Small osseous deposits occur in other growths, such as chondroma and fibroma, while the ossifying sarcomas will be considered subsequently (p. 490). Bone is a very common con- stituent of teratomas, in which it may take the form of fcetal parts. Diagnosis—The recognition of the common forms of osteoma is usually easy. In the case of a pedunculated osteoma of a long bone, confusion has been known to arise as the result of effusion into the overlying bursa. A small bony prominence in the neck above the clavicle is probably a cervical rib, and must not be mistaken for an exostosis. An ivory exostosis on one of the cranial bones can hardly be mistaken for a periosteal node. Extensive ossification of a sarcoma may occasionally lead to a mistaken diagnosis, and indeed such a tumour may appear on section to be a simple osseous growth. Certain inflammatory bone-formations may closely resemble osseous tumours, although in these circumstances the more diffuse character of the enlargement is likely to resemble an ossifying sarcoma rather than a simple osteoma. In this connexion the extraordinary deposit of new bone which may gradually occur around a small sequestrum is of great practical importance. To this condition Paget applied the graphic name of " quiet necrosis," and every surgeon should remember his case in which amputation was performed at the hip-joint for a supposed ossifying tumour of the femur, but in which the enlargement of the bone was due to chronic osteitis around a central sequestrum. In the lower jaw instances of the mimicry of an osseous tumour by chronic inflammation of the bone are not uncommon. A specimen in the Museum of University College Hospital well illustrates this point. It consists of part of the right side of the body of the mandible removed by operation for a supposed bony tumour. In the interior of the dense mass of bone is an irregular cavity containing an imperfectly separated sequestrum and the fang of a tooth. In connexion with bony tumours of the jaws, it may be remarked that some of those recorded as central osteomas have been examples of odontoma ; and reference must also be made to the rare disease to