415 LYMPHANGIOMA-ENDOTHELIOMA a well-marked febrile disturbance occurs. In a case of this kind which came under our notice, several attacks of this land occurred, and in one of the most severe of these a medical man, who was unfamiliar with the condition, was narrowly prevented from treating the case as one of abscess of the neck. As a matter of fact, the inflammation subsides without suppuration and may be followed by considerable shrinkage of the tumour. The causation of this intermittent inflammation has been studied by Riedel and Kiittner. Among 1!) cases of lymph- angioma observed by Kiittner in Bruns's clinic, inflammation was noted 5 times—thrice in the tongue, once in the lip, and once in the wall of the thorax. Kiittner believes the inflammation to be due to an infection of the lymph spaces of the tumour either directly from the surface or by way of the lymphatics. In the case above mentioned, one at least of the attacks of inflammation followed the occurrouce of sore throat. Lymphangioma of the tongue may occur as a localized patch in which the papilke are enlarged, and may be transformed into small vesicles as the result of dilatation of the lymphatic vessels. The more important variety is the diffuse form, which is the most common cause of congenital eulaigement of the tongue or inacro- (jlossia. The enlargement, although usually noticeable at or soon after birth, may gradually increase until a considerable part of the organ hangs from tlie mouth. The surface is usually irregularly fissured and tlie papilla? are enlarged (Fig. 75). From constant irri- tation the condition is likely to be modified by inflammation. Microscopic examination reveals the presence of dilated and cystic lympliatics in the mucous membranes, submucous tissue, and muscular substance : and Butlin refers to several recorded cases in which this variety of macroglossia was associated with other forms of lymph- angioma, as, for instance, in the neck and floor of the moutli. Treatment of lymphangioma. — A lymphangioma of moderate size may lie tre;itiMl liy rxcision. The difflciflt}' of treating in this way the large cystic lymphangiomas of the neck has already been mentioned, and in considering the question of operation the tendency of these tumours eventually to shrink must be taken into account. Lymphangiomatous macroglossia has often been success- fully treated by excising a wedge-shajied ]iortion of the front of the tongue. ENDOTHELIOMA An endothelioma is a tumour tlie essential elements of which are endothelial cells lying in a connective-tissue stroma. Endothelia are met with in the blood- and lymph-vessels and spaces, and covering the surface of serous membranes, and it is in such