BACILLUS TETANI 65 The organism is very widely distributed, and is a common saprophyte in cultivated ground, in stable refuse, and in the soil of towns. It has been found in as many as 90 per cent, of samples of earth taken at random near a large town. It is almost always to be found in garden soil. Although an anaerobic organism, it can develop in these situa- tions since the presence of numerous aerobic forms removes the free oxygen sufficiently to enable it to grow. The toxins of tetanus have been very carefully investigated. Even before pure cultures of the bacillus had been obtained, Knud Faber showed that the bacterium-free filtrate of impure tetanus cultures would produce the characteristic symptoms of the disease. After the micro-organism had been successfully isolated by Kitasato, numerous experiments on its toxins were carried out by many observers. The main results established may be stated as follows : In suitable media the bacillus produces toxins of such remarkable potency that even toocttttto c.c. (one-millionth c.c.) of the filtered culture fluid may be sufficient to cause typical tetanus and death in a mouse of about 10 grm. The. fluid contains at least two poisonous bodies, one of which produces the tetanic spasms, wliile tlie other acts as a strong hjemolytic agent. The latter is a very labile substance, and can only be preserved in a dried condition. It loses its activity very rapidly when present in solution, and may become practically inactive after a few hours' exposure at 37째 C. The former, which is the specific toxin, is also unusually susceptible to the action of heat, so that exposure for a few minutes at 65째 C, or for an hour and a half at 55째 C, renders it practically incapable of producing symptoms. On the other hand, when it has been completely dried its activity is only slightly reduced by heating for an hour at 120째 C. In this condition it also withstands the action of alcohol, chloroform, and ether. On injection into animals, the tetano-toxin has a definite incubation period, but its precise duration is dependent both on the dosage and on the variety of animal employed. Even with very large doses, in the mouse, specific symptoms of intoxication do not begin to appear until after the lapse of about eight or ten hom'S. The toxin travels by the iiiotor nerves to reach the cells of the anterior horn of the spinal cord, and it has been suggested that it is absorbed in the first case by the motor end-plat3S in the muscle fibres. Susceptibility to tetanus toxin varies in different animals. Thus, while mice, rabbits, and guinea-pigs are highly susceptible, consider- able resistance is exhibited by fowls, which require 30,000 times the dose, per gramme of body weight, sufficient to kill a mouse. The alligator appears to be immune. Administered by the mouth, the toxin produces no effect on animals, and is not absorbed in the alimentary canal. Feeding with F