THE PNEUMOCOGGUS 55 inflammations, as, for example, erysipelas and spreading cellulitis. Tlie streptococci are the common causal agents of puerperal as well as of other septicfemias, and localized infections with these organisms are peculiarly liable to spread, and very frequently result in general infec- tion. The streptococci are, moreover, a frequent cause of secondary infections in specific diseases sucli as diphtheria and tuberculosis. By inoculating horses with increasing doses of streptococci a number of antistreptococcic serums have been prepared. Experience is still insufficient to enable any just conclusion to be reached as to their value in the streptococcal infections. But very many successful results have been recorded, especially where polyvalent serums have been employed. In scarlet fever and in acute rheumatism particularly good results have been obtained by foreign observers. Pneumococcus (Streptococcus lanceolatus. Diplo- coccus pneumoniae).—This organism (Plate 3, Fig. 3, and Plate 4, Fig. 1) was first obterved by Pasteur in the sputum of a case of rabies. He prepared pure cultures and showed that they pro- duced septicpemia in rabbits. Talamon discovered a similar coccus in the exudation of croupous pneumonia, and shortly after Frankel proved the identity of the two micro-organisms in question. In the following year (1886) Frankel and Weicliselbaum succeeded in clearly establishing the position of the organism as the common cause of croupous pneumonia in the human subject. The organism is a rounded, usually somewhat lanceolate, paired coccus, having a dia- meter of about 1 /X. It frequently appears in the form of short chains of four to six individuals when found in the body fluids, and in bouillon culture it may be quite indistinguishable from a strep- tococcus. In the dijjlococcal form the sides facing each other are often flattened, the outer sides being shaped like lancet points, and hence the organism is termed " lanceolate." In the body fluids it usually presents a well-marked capsule, but this is absent when it is grown in bouillon, and very frequently also in the case of other artificial media. It is non-motile, and has no flagella. It stains well with ordinary basic aniline dyes. It is Gram-positive, and in Gram-preparations the capsule can be counterstained bv eosin. It is aerobic, and a facultative anaerobe. Its optimum tempera- ture is about 37° C, and its limits of growth are from about 24° C. or 2.-/ C. to 42° C. In artificial culture it is very similar to the streptococcus pyogenes, but more delicate. In bouillon, growth appears as a faint turbidity with a slight powdery deposit at the foot of the tube. Lactic acid is produced. In specially prepared gelatin {It] to 20 per cent.) which remains solid up to 2.5° C, small, rounded, gTcyish, separate colonies appear along the stab. There is no surface growth. On the surface