TUMOURS 424 but the evidence strongly supports the view that the diseases, although perhaps sometimes associated, are essentially distinct. Naked-eye examination alone, however, may be insufficient to distinguish them. In the ordinary form of tuberculosis no doubt can exist, and the presence of separate caseating deposits is quite characteristic ; but, as Sternberg has shown, there is a form of tuberculosis in which the gland closely resembles lymphadenoma, but in which typical tubercle systems can be demonstrated. Although the cause of lymphadenoma is still unknown, the disease must be regarded as a form of granuloma and not as a true tumour. Before leaving this subject it may be pointed out that a chronically enlarged gland may, on removal, present none of the histological features of tuberculosis, nor show any of the special forms of enlarge- ment above described, but merely those of a diffuse hyperplasia with induration. Such a condition probably results from some persistent but unrecognized source of irritation in the corresponding lymphatic area. The name chloroma has been applied to certain tumour-like deposits of a peculiar greenish colour which have been found in asso- ciation with blood changes and other phenomena resembling those met with in acute leukaemia. The deposits have been met with chiefly in connexion with the periosteum of the orbits, jaws, and other parts of the skull, as well as in the lymphatic glands, the liver, spleen, and other viscera, and in the bones. The cells composing the deposits are chiefly large lymphocytes, and there is little doubt that the con- dition is an unusual manifestation of acute leukaemia, although the nature of the green coloration is uncertain: MYOMA A myoma is a tumour composed of striped (rhabdo-myoma) or u nstriped (leio-myoma) muscle-fibres. EHABDO-MYOMA A tumour composed entirely of transversely striated muscular tissue has not yet been described, and it is probable, as suggested by Bland-Sutton, that certain elongated and transversely striated cells occasionally seen in spindle-celled sarcomas are not really muscle fibres. Striated muscle-fibres are, however, sometimes present in certain mixed tumours of the kidney and the testicle, occurring in early life. Shattock has recently drawn attention to four specimens of polypoid tumours of the lower part of the bladder, in all of which striped muscle-fibres are present. Three of the specimens are in the