SECONDARY SYPHILIS It is generally located in tlie occiput, and shows marked nocturnal exacerbations. Motor paralyses of the muscles of the eye and face are common even early in syphilis, and are usually the result of compression of the nerve-truuk by periostitis in the early stages and by gumma in the later. Although hemiplegia and paraplegia are generally classed as belonging almost exclusively to the tertiary period, I have met with two cases in the third month, one in the fourth, and several in the sixth, seventh, and eighth months after infection. The para- lysis not infrequently supervenes during sleep. Practically all the cases that have come under my notice had received either insufficient or no specific treatment. Hemiplegia is due to endarteritis and thrombosis of one or other of the cerebral arteries, whilst paraplegia results in many cases from some spinal meningitis. Syphilitic hemiplegia may be accompanied by aphasia, optic neuritis, and epilepsy. Mental de- pression is constant. The prognosis is better in syphilitic hemiplegia and paraplegia than in other forms. Much depends on the amount of anti-syphilitic treatment already given and on the energy of its application after the onset of the paralysis. Visceral affections.—Albuminuria may bear witness to kidney lesions, pleural effusion to pleurisy, and jaundice to liver changes. Affections of the epididymis and testicle.—As mani- festations of the secondary stage these aft'ections are not common. When the epididymis is attacked the lesion appears as an acute inflammation, which readily subsides under treatment. Inflamma- tion of the testicle itself is very rare in early syphilis, and when present follows tlie course of ordinary acute orchitis, generally ending in resolution. Affections of bones.—The osseous system is often one of the earliest attacked by syphilis. The condition begins as simple periostitis, running on sometimes to inflammation of the bone itself. The tibia, clavicle, sternum, bones of the cranium, and the ribs are most commonly attacked, and in the order named. Periostitis.—This is often a very early secondary sign, coming on sometimes before the appearance of any rash, but it is more often seen l)etween the sixth and ninth months. It is a subacute affection, and appears as an elastic, tender, painful swelling over the bone. The pain is sometimes intense, especially at night. Under treatment this lesion will generally subside and leave no trace, though bony nodes frequently remain at the seat of attaclc. The subjacent bone often becomes involved. Suppuration may occasionally occur. Affections of the joints may be acute or subacute. The acute 2 \-