607 STAGES OF DROWNING and deeper parts into the more superficial anterior and lateral parts ; the dorsal or posterior part becomes water-logged, the anterior part emphysematous. The blood pressure rises ; the pulmonary circulation becomes more and more embarrassed by the distension of the lung with water and air; the piilmonary capillaries become engorged, and the circulation almost arrested; the blood accumulates in the systemic veins, and the surface of the body becomes livid. In this stage a considerable amomit of water may be swallowed. By the end of the tliird minute the tinrd stage is reached. Con- sciousness is lost; the interrujjtion of the respiratory exchange has already affected the action of the brain. The respiratory move- ments become expiratory in nature, irregular, then vigorous, and lastly convidsive ; the pulmonary circulation is engorged ; the capil- laries in certain areas rupture, and haanorrhage takes place ; air is forced from the disturbed air-cells into the substance of the lung, causing interstitial emphysema. The right heart is engorged and weakened by the impossible task of forcing blood through the lungs. The arterial blood-pressiu'e falls rapidly. In the fotirth stage, which follows quickly on the last, respiratory movements cease, reflexes are lost, the surface of the body may become pallid; the blood pressure has fallen almost to zero ; the heart-beats are scarcely perceptible. This stage ends by the death of the central nervous system. In the fifth stage, which is one beyond restoration, the muscular and organic systems of the body pass gradually into rigor and death. Unfortunatelj', there is nothing in the appearance of the appar- ently drowned to mark the foui-th from the fifth stage. If the body is warm and the slightest sign of heart-action still jjresent, the medical man must assume that his patient is in the foui'th stage and treat liim accordingly. That the period of immersion does not provide a safe guide is proved by the following table compiled by the writer— Period of Immersion 1 to 5 V> to \0 11 15 Over 15 Successful cases of res- "I'nutes mhnitcs uiinutcs mimte.t toration . . . 234 89 14 4 Unsuccessful cases . . 13 21 12 16 Treatment.—The indications for treatment are— Renew the air-content of the lung. Assist the circulation, especially the cerebral blood supply. Restore and maintain the body temperature. These indications are carried out in the following manner :— As soon as the patient is drawn from the water, lay him face downwards across a folded coat or artificial pillow in the boat or on the bank, as the case may be; insert the fingers into the mouth, to see that it is free of foreign matter; stand astride him ;