ADMINISTRATION OF NITROUS-OXIDE 6O7 tliat the weight stated on the lal^el is correct. The sound which a full cylinder gives Avhen struck with a metal instrument is different from that given by an empty cylinder treated in the same way. Before use the apparatus is to be tested by turning the foot-key, letting a little gas into the bag with the stopcock closed, and j^ress- ing it out of the open expiratory valve. The foot-lcey is turned by pressing firmly on it with one foot and rotating tlie knee from left to right. Before starting to administer, put the cylinders into such a posi- tion that the foot-key is easily reached and worked when the face-piece is being held to the patient's face. Then, with the stopcock '' off,"' fill the bag about two-thirds full. The patient having been examined in the ordinary way (p. 652), a small prop (Fig. 175)—or, if neces- sary in a dental case, a larger one—is placed between the teetli; the liead is allowed to rest in a suitable position, neither flexed nor extended, but in its natural relation to the chest; and the face-piece is gently applied, so that it fits the face accurately, the apex resting on the bridge of the nose and the broad end on the chin. The sound made by the valve working as the patient breathes in and out will show that the face-piece is properly applied. If there is a moustache or beard, the hair should be moistened with water where it comes into contact with the face-i>iece. This is held by the antcstlietist's left hand, with the little finger pressing up below the patient's chin. Two fingers of the right hand are employed to keep the rim of the face-piece closely pressed against the b-ridge of the nose, where air leakage is most likely. The patient is asked to breathe freely in and out of the mouth. The stopcoclc is tb.en turned on with the right hand, and nitrous-oxide is thus admitted from the bag to the patient's moutli. At the same time the foot-key is worked so that gas gently streams into tlie bag. The gas is now being inhaled from the bag and expired into the air. After about half a minute consciousness goes, the breathing is deeper and cjuicker than natural, the face becomes dusky, and the pupils dilate. After about twenty to thirty breaths, jerky, guttural, stertorous respira- tory noises demonstrate the 2:)resence of ana)sthesia, and, in the case of a very sliort operation, afi'ord an indication to remove the face-piece. If a slightly longer anfesthesia is desired, the expiratory valve should be closed and re-breathing for a few breaths be allowed. An administration such as this suffices for such procedures as extraction of two or tbree teeth, or the opening of an abscess. The conjunctival reflex is abolished, but not the corneal. Mus- cular twitching or jactitation or opisthotonos, or pallor (a rare occurrence), if they arise, must be regarded as signals to stop the administration. If the operation is not one within the mouth the occurrence of any of these phenomena, stertor, t^vitchings, etc., is the signal to allow the