MALIGNANT GROWTHS 473 it may be stated tliat tlie popular idea that tliere has been a steady increase in the frequency of cancer is probably erroneous. The supposed increase is certainly to a large extent, if not altogether, explicable by the increasing accuracy with which the disease is detected and recorded, and by the fact that an increasingly large number of individuals reach the age at which cancer becomes common. Clinical course of a malignant tumour.—In view of the great diversity presented by the course of a mali,unant growth, dependent chiefly upon its nature and position, it is impossible to give any general description which is applicable to the different varieties. Be3'ond the fact that, unless successfully removed whilst in a localized condition, such widely different tumours as a soft round- celled sarcoma and a hard shrinking carcinoma will eventually destroy life, it is hardly possible to mention a single feature which is common to both. Certain popular fallacies with regard to a malignant tumour cannot be too often or too energetically exposed. These fallacies are : (1) That a malignant growth is necessarily painful : (2) that it makes rapid progress ; and (3) tliat it is attended with loss of flesh and general deterioration of the health. All tliese evidences of malignancy may be conspicuous by their absence. Thus, to give a striking example, the very common hard form of cancer of the female breast may present itself as an altogether insignificant small hard lump, unattended with pain or even discomfort, scarcelj^ varying in size in many months or even several years, and unassociated with any recognizable eft'ect on the nutrition or general health of the patient. In the same way a small shrinking cancer of the pylorus may occasion a degree of ill-health not more marked than would be caused by an equal degree of pyloric obstruction due to a fibrous stricture. In the large majority of cases the recognition that a tumuor is malig- nant must, in the early stages at least, when a correct diagnosis is of incalculable importance, be based upon the physical examination of the tumour itself and not upon the history of its growth or the general condition of the patient. Early loss of flesh is very rare unless from its position the tumour interferes with the normal processes of digestion. For example, the emaciation caused by a carcinoma of the oesophagus is in the early stages of the disease in direct proportion to the mechani- cal interference which it causes with tlie act of deglutition, and is no more marked than that which would be caused by an equal degree of interference dependent upon some non-malignant condition. It may, indeed, be laid down as a rule that when an apparently early malig- nant tumour is associated with marked loss of flesh not caused b}' the mechanical effects of the tumour, the presence of metastases should be suspected, even though there be no physical signs to indicate their existence. Absence of pain is, again, no proof that a tumour is benign