TUMOURS 56o Carcinoma of the scrotum, or " cliimney-sweep's cancer," is probably the most striking instance of the relation between malignant disease and chronic irritation. As the result of the prolonged irritation of soot the skin of the scrotum becomes harsh, dry and thickened, and the seat of small warty excrescences. It is in the latter that the malignant growth usually starts, the wart becoming gradually larger and finally ulcerated. It is an interesting fact that coal miners are not subject to the disease, possibly because coal dust is less irritating than the more finely powdered soot, which readily enters the pores of the sldn. The irritation is evidently in some way peculiarly favour- able to the development of cancer, for the disease has been seen on the hand of a gardener who used soot for application to the soil. It has been suggested that the arsenic present in soot is the exciting cause of the dermatitis, which is strikingly similar to that caused by this drug, and it is interesting that in one of the cases of arsenic cancer recorded by Hutchinson the disease occurred on the scrotum. Butlin found that the only satisfactory explanation of the comparative immunity of Continental chimney-sweeps from the disease is that by the use of a protective costume they avoid the constant contact of the part with soot. In connexion with this subject, it is necessary to refer to Crocker's case, in which a form of dermatitis occurred on the scrotum and penis evidently identical in nature with Paget's disease of the nipple and areola, which is known to be closely associated with the development of carcinoma of the breast (p. 564). In Crocker's case two nodules in the afiected part of the scrotum presented the structure of a carcinoma, arising probably in one of the cutaneous appendages. Carcinoma of the scrotum tends to early invasion of the super- ficial inguinal glands, the free removal of which, whether enlarged or not, must always be regarded as an essential part of the operative treatment. Unless the primary growth is at some distance from the raphe, the glands of both gToins should be removed. Recurrent carcinoma in the inguinal glands is particularly serious on account of its tendency to extend to those which lie along the main vessels, and to those above Poupart's ligament. In several recorded cases carcinoma has occurred in the groin- glands of chimney-sweeps in whom no primary growth on the scrotum could be detected, and Butlin has suggested, as the most likely explanation, that a small growth on the scrotum, after invading the lymphatics, has itself undergone involution. A similar possible occur- rence in the case of the lip has already been mentioned (p. 530). Closely allied to the carcinoma of the scrotum resulting from the irritation of soot is that which occurs in workers in pitch and paraffin, to which attention was first called by Volkmann in 1875 (p. 528).