104 APPLIED BACTERIOLOGY Streptococcus pyogenes.—The clinical entities due to the streptococcus include erysipelas, appendicitis, cellulitis, abscess, re- current tonsillitis, empyema, arthritis, and conjunctivitis, as well as streptococcic septicsemia. With the exception of erysipelas, stock vaccines are practically useless in the treatment of streptococcic infections, and autogenous vaccines must be employed. They should be prepared from cultivations grown upon blood-agar for a period of 24 hours at 37° C. The emulsion should be killed by exposure to a temperature of 58° C. for one hour. In erysipelas a stock vaccine prepared from a number of strains of streptococci obtained from different cases of erysipelas is exceedingly useful in doses of 5 millions and 10 millions at intervals of five or six days. In the other conditions mentioned the initial dose of autogenous vaccine is usually about 2-1 millions, sometimes less ; occasionally 5 millions may be used, according to the severity of the case. Doses are given every five, six, seven, or eight days, according to the clinical condition of the patient, and may be gTadually increased in size up to a maximum of perhaps 25 millions or 50 millions. In surgical streptococcic septicaemia the initial dose should be exceedingly small, half a million to a million being sufficient, and should be repeated at intervals of two to three or perhaps four days. After a time the dose may be raised to 5 milhons or 10 millions, but it is exceedingly rare for a larger dose to be needed. Stock vaccines of the pyogenetic staphylococci and streptococci have a distinct sphere of usefulness in the prophylactic treatment of burns, scalds, and compound and comminuted fractures, during the course of treatment of which infection by one or both of these groups of organisms so frequently occurs. A prophylactic dose, directly the case is seen, of 5 to 25 million streptococci, and from 50 to 250 million staphylococci, should be administered. In the opinion of many surgeons this preventive treatment results in a very distinct improve- ment in the statistics of cases of this type. Pneumococcus.—Of the surgical infections due to pueumo- coccus, abscess-formation, peritonitis, empyema, septic arthritis, and otitis media are those which most frequently come under the notice of the surgeon. Like the streptococcus, strains of pneumococci differ so markedly among themselves that autogenous vaccines are essential to successful treatment. For the preparation of autogenous vaccine, the pneumococcus should be grown on blood-agar at 37° C. for 24 hours, and the emulsion sterilized by heating in a water-bath for one hour at 58° C. The initial dose should be from 2J to 5 million pneumo- cocci, according to the age of the patient and the severity of the infection. Doses may be given every six days, and gradually raised imtil 50 millions are injected at one time.