472 TUMOURS the age of 8 years ; of the breast, Henry's case, in which the patient was 21 years old. Bashford has very rightly insisted that in considering the age- incidence of cancer it is necessary to distinguish between the origin of the disease and its growth. Although carcinoma rarely begins in early life, yet in such cases the disease usually exhibits an extreme degree of malignancy and rapidity of growth, and in the same way young animals receive the disease by experimental transference more easily than old ones. The tissues of a young subject are not prone to develop cancer, but are particularly favourable to its growth should it occur. In considering the relative liability of the two sexes to malig- nant disease, reference will be made only to carcinoma, as its much greater frequency renders it more favourable for study than sarcoma. Carcinoma is more common in women than in men, because of the great liability of the uterus and female breast to the disease ; but, excluding disease in these parts, cancer is more common in men than in women. Bashford finds that in the seven years ending with 1907 the male mortality from the disease, excluding cancer of the generative and mammary organs, was 730 per million, and the female mortality, with the same reservation, 594 per million ; the total deaths, includ- ing all forms of cancer, being 84,800 males and 122,964 females. Among all forms of cancer in the female, about 50 per cent, occur in the uterus and breast, so that if these be excluded, and the per- centages for other organs in the female doubled, a standard of comparison between the two sexes is obtained. Thus, according to the Danish statistics of Fibiger and Trier, cancer of the stomach in the male accounts for 31 "9 per cent, of all cases, and in the female 16'2 per cent.; whereas, excluding disease in the breast and uterus, cancer of the stomach in the female accounts for 32'7 per cent., approximately the same as in the male. Referring to some of the other situations in which cancer is especially common, it will be found that the disease in the tongue and throat, lip, oesophagus, and rectum is more common in men than in women, whilst in the gall-bladder it is more common in women than in men. These variations in the incidence of carcinoma in different situations in the two sexes are doubtless due, not to any inherent difference in the susceptibility of the tissues, but to their varying exposure to chronic irritation and other causes. Thus, the greater liabiHty of the gall-bladder in the female must be considered in relation with the fact that gall-stones are much more common in that sex, and that in probably 80 or 90 per cent, of cases of cancer of this part, gall-stones are present. Before leaving the subject of the causation of malignant disease,