217 PRESSURE GANGRENE tiou has developed, the greater part of the limb may recover and only the distal portion become gangrenous. Then, if asepsis be maintained, and evaporation assisted, the necrotic tissues will become dry and may eitlier be allowed to drop off or, as is usual in such circumstances, be removed by amputation, but at a much lower level than was origin- ally anticipated. Should any source of compression embarrass the circulation at the time of injury, or during the period of waiting, an incision should be made, clots removed, haemorrhage arrested, dis- placed fragments of bone replaced or fixed, and the condition of the main vessels determined. If either an artery or a vein is found to be damaged, it is again advisable to wait, in the hope that the distal parts will recover and be of use to the patient; but when both vessels are ruptured, or when injury to one of them is complicated by laceration of muscles and division of important nerves, the immediate danger of septic moist gangrene is so great, and the limb would l)e so useless in the rare event of its recovery, that it should l)e amputated as soon as the patient's condition jjermits. Another matter that calls for careful consideration in deciding on the proper treatment is the age and constitutional condition of the patient. Old people seldom bear injuries well, and are often less able to undergo tlie strain of prolonged convalescence than the shock of an immediate amputation ; wliile the vitality of their tissues is frequently so lowered by cardiac disease, arterio-sclerosis. or chronic nephritis, that gangrene is practically inevitable after a severe injury. Immediate amputation is therefore called for more often tlian in the case of healthy adults. 6. Gangrene due to pressure.—Gangrene of the extremi- ties may be due to pressure on the vessels from a tumour, a frac- tured or dislocated bone, a rapidly enlarging aneurysm, or prolonged constriction with a tourniquet or a tight bandage. It is always moiSt, as the veins, being thin-walled, are more readily comjoressed than their companion arteries. The symptoms are characteristic : swelling, congestion, and a?dema, accompanied hy intense pain from pressure on the nerves, are quickly followed by the classical signs of moist gangrene. When necrosis is threatened, treatment must be directed towards the removal of the cause. If complete gangrene has already occurred, immediate amputation is called for, but if it is only limited in extent and aseptic, conservative measures are justifiable, and a line of demarcation may be awaited. The treatment of gangrene following aneurysm is considered elsewhere. Another and special form of pressure gangrene is the so-called bed-sore. A bed-sore may be defined as a gangrenous idcer due to necrosis of the skin and subjacent tissues from continued pressure, usually, but not always, assisted by dirt and moisture. Bed-sores