ANGINA LUDOVICI with sound and careful surgical procedures, and that for no con- sideration should the surgeon relax a single detail in the antiseptic precautions. My belief is that vaccine treatment should be tried in most, if not in all cases, and that if the case is doing well under its administration it should be continued, but if the case does not improve, harm may be done by its continuation. Should a case be healing well without it, I would not employ it. However, when the surgeon has deter- mined that the use of vaccine is advisable, the main question is whether its exhibition should be controlled or not by the constant estimation of the opsonic index. Many observers claim that it should, but most— among whom I am one—are content with the results obtained by injecting small doses (xryVo iiig- T.R. or less) about every fourteen days without opsonic control. Another point ought to be considered. Ought a surgeon to attempt to render his case immune against B. tuberculosis before adopting operative measures which might lead to generalization of the bacilli ? Should he deem it his duty to do so, he must be careful to wait until the negative phase has passed. Those who believe in the extreme value of the opsonic index would be guided by it as to the opportmae moment for operation, whilst others would operate about seven days after the administration. I have carried out the administration of vaccines controlled by the opsonic index, preliminary to operation, but do not see any reason to continue the practice. ANGINA LUDOVICI This term is applied to a diffuse infective inflammation of the median and lateral aspects of the neck. It may be induced by one or many kinds of micro-organism, but it is caused most frequently by the Streptococcus -pyogenes, staphylococcus, or pneumococcus. But B. iiiallei (glanders), a bacillus resembling, if not identical with, the B. diphthericB, and actinomycotic organisms have been found in pure culture in the discharges of some cases. The primary sources of in- fection should be looked for in the mouth, tonsil, pharynx, nose, ear, and scalp. The disease is a cellulitis, not a lymphadenitis. It usually starts as a hard, brawny, dusky-red, swollen area of skin about the chin or angle of the jaw. In bad cases it spreads down- wards with a diffuse margin. Pain is not usually a very marked feature ; the neck usually feels stiff and uncomfortable ; but in some cases there is great pain, and gradually increasing dysphagia and dyspnoea. As a rule, the disease is more subacute than acute ; the fever is slight, but increases with the intensity of the disease. Usually the lesion does not suppurate ; but suppuration may occur, either in one soft