8i8 GONORRHCEA 1. Constitutional treatment.—The constitutional treatment is the same as that for anterior urethritis, except that saUcylate of soda is generally more useful than the balsams. This drug, though of comparatively little value in inflammation of the anterior urethra, has a very beneficial effect in posterior urethritis. Under its action the urine rapidly clears, and the acute distressing symptoms disappear. It may be given in doses of gr. x-xxx three times a day. Salol or salicine may be used instead, but I prefer the salicylate of soda. These drugs have the great advantage of rendering the urine markedly acid—a point of considerable importance ; for the maintenance of the acidity of the urine is our strongest prophylactic against cystitis due to spread of the urethral inflammation to the bladder. Although salicylate of soda is generally more efficacious in those cases than any of the balsams, it is not always so. If it fails speedily to reduce the symptoms, one of the balsams should be given. Apart from the administration of salicylate of soda, the treatment must also be directed to combating the three prominent symptoms of acute posterior urethritis—vesical tenesmus, hfemorrhage, and seminal emissions. The first may be mitigated by sedatives and the use of hot sitz-baths. As a rule, the slight haemorrhage which accompanies the vesical tenesmus is best treated by the sedatives above mentioned. When of a severe character and unaccompanied by vesical tenesmus, it may be restrained by the instillation of cocaine (2 per cent.) and adrenalin (1—1,000). The tendency to frequent seminal emissions, which is so common a feature of this disease, must be energetically combated, for the intense hypersemia they cause is in the highest degree injurious, retarding the recovery of the mucous membrane. For this purpose bromide of potassium, monobromide of camphor, and heroin are generally the most useful drugs. The importance of rest in the treatment of acute gonorrhoea has already been noticed, but it must be emphasized in connexion with acute posterior urethritis. 2. Local treatment.-—The principles of treatment for acute pos- terior urethritis are the same as those laid down for acute anterior urethritis, namely, to withhold local applications during the acutest stage of the disease. When this stage has passed, and as the inflam- mation subsides, the bland antiseptics may be used, and graduaUy changed to more astringent ones. The application of these remedies requires certain modifications of the method advocated in the preceding section. When, and not until, the tenesmus and other painful symptoms have quite disappeared under the constitutional treatment, the local applications may be begun by ordering the patient a dilute solution of protargol (J to J per cent.), or sulphate of thallin (1 per cent.). The solution may be injected three or four times a day, in the manner