ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBKD ABSCESS i8r Local.—The first indication of trouble is a sensation of tension in the part, gradually increasing to a definite throbbing pain, which is exaggerated when the part is dependent and diminished when it is raised, or placed in warm lotion. Lowering the part increases venous congestion ; raising it diminishes tlie congestion by causing a reflex contraction of arterioles, as Lister pointed out, and by gravitation emptying the veins. Lister also showed that lowering a limb causes a reflex vaso-dilatation. Warm lotion supports the capillary and venous systems, and acts as a counter-irritant. There is extreme tenderness, which upon the slightest touch becomes exquisite pain. The part is hot, bright red, swollen and hard ; its function is arrested. The redness disappears on pressure, but reappears instantly as the pressure is removed. As the lesion matures, this reaction becomes sluggish ; from being red the centre becomes blue, and soft to touch ; this is the first trustworthy sign that suppuration has begun. The part becomes oedematous, and the swelling grows more prominent and tense until fluctuation confirms the fluid nature of its contents. The skin covering the surface becomes thin, shining and polished by the subjacent pressure of the increasing abscess. Around the tense, painful, and red swelling there is oedema, which gradually disappears in the parts farther away from the swelling. The central thinning increases till the skin becomes a translucent membrane, through which the white or yellowish pus can be seen presenting the familiar spectacle of a " pointing " abscess. The skin at this stage may not be quite so tense, for the ulceration of its deeper layers has relieved the greatest tension. The diminution of tension is indicated by a very fine network of lines or wrinkles which can be seen in the epithelial surface covering the most prominent part of the abscess. The abscess is quite mature now, and upon the slightest movement or trauma will burst. The redness disappears immediately upon the rupture of the abscess. The part, which up to this time has been held rigidly still by unconscious muscular effort, is now relaxed. At first the pus flows freely owing to the internal pressure in the abscess and the external pressure exerted by the elastic tissues around, which are no longer stretched ; contraction of muscles in the immediate neighbourhood also aids the expulsion. The pain and swelling gradually subside, and function is restored. The abscess walls gradually fall together from want of support and fi-om the continued contraction in the tissues around them. The gross clinical signs cease to be apparent, although the tissues which formed the margin of the abscess still contain multitudes of micro-organisms; the time of the complete disappearance of the micro-organisms varies in different cases from days to years. The lymphatic vessels which drain the affected part may or may