OSTEOMA 391 gated the specimen and conclusively proved that the tumour was of mixed structure, which still later investigation has shown to l)e that of a teratoma (p. 587). It is probable that in the few recorded instances of cartilaginous tumours of the breast the cartilage has been present in a mixed growth, sarcomatous in nature. It must also be mentioned that, in certain cndotheUomas occurring in connexion with the salivary glands and the neighbouring parts, cartilage is a common element in the stroma, and may be so abundant as to give the tumour the clinical and macro- scoj^ic characters of a chondroma. Finally, cartilage is very often present in teratomas, sometimes in the form of shapeless masses, but in some tumours in a form having a more or less close resemblance to a definite foetal structure. Treatment—A cartilaginous tumour unconnected with a bone can usually l)e removed easily by enucleation. The cartilaginous tumours of the metacarpal bones and phalanges, when single, may sometimes ))e removed without sacrificing the finger, or even removing the affected bone. If, however, as is not uncommon, the tumours are multiple, the question of removal must be determined by their size and distribution and the resulting deformity. A chondroma of the chest wall may sometimes be dealt with by removing the part of the rib from which it originates. OSTEOMA An osteoma or exostosis is a tumour composed of bone. Bony formations which do not partake of the characters of tumours are very common ; e.g. the osseous deposits which occur on the articular extremities of the bones in connexion with many chronic joint diseases, and the bony masses sometimes found in muscles as the result of injury. Such chronic inflammatory osseous hyperplasias are of much practical importance on account of the close resemblance they may sometimes bear to true bony tumours, and will recjuire further con- sideration from the diagnostic point of view. Like normal bone, osteoma occurs in two forms, the comj^act and the cancellous, and develops in a manner corresponding to the two normal processes of ossification in membrane and in cartilage. True osteomas are rare except in connexion with the skeleton. Cancellous osteoma.—This tumour, wdiich is commonly known as the spongy or pedunculated exostosis, has already been mentioned, in speaking of cartilaginous tumours, as the ossifying enchondroma (p. 385). It is essentially an afi'ection of the bones dming the period of their growth, and the progressive ossification in cartilage by which the tumom- commences and continues its growth is closely correlated with the growth of the bone on which it is situated, for it very rarely