SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY i8 inorganic substances, such as water, nitrates, chlorides, and so on ; alcohols, acids, of the fatty acid and oxy-acid series ; aromatic bodies, such as phenol, indol, etc. ; and carbohydrates (e.g. sugar). Others are complex organic bodies of unknown constitution, such as the various pigments, enzymes, toxins, and so forth. These latter are the more important from a pathological aspect in that they include those bodies to which the special action of bacteria in the animal organism is attributable. We do not know with certainty whether many of these substances are to be regarded as secretions or as excretions of the bacterial protoplasm, whether they are formed within or without the bacterial cell, nor whether they are liberated by the living organism or are only set free when the cell itself undergoes disintegration. (a) The pigments usually consist of more or less indifferent sub- stances, and therefore are in general of comparatively slight import- ance among the metabolic products of bacteria, except in so far as they assist in the differentiation of bacterial forms which may otherwise present closely similar appearances. But in the case of certain of the bacteria in which the pigment is intracellular (sulphur-bacteria) this substance is essential to the life of the organism, enabling it to assimilate carbon dioxide in the presence of light in the same way that chlorophyll assists the metabolism of higher plants. Where the pigment is extracellular it may probably be regarded as an excrete product of no particular importance to the bacterium. But even in these cases it is conceivable that, by absorbing light, pigment may either act protectively by taking up the more actinic rays, which are particularly injurious to bacterial life, or on the other hand it may assist bacterial growth by rendering the energy of light available in the assimilative processes. However this may be, it is a striking fact that the production of extracellular pigment is not invariahhj associated with the growth of the organism concerned, but frequently depends on the accompanying conditions of temperature, gaseous environment, medium, reaction, and so on. Thus the B. jjyocyaneus, which exhibits blue-green fluorescent pigmentation in agar, gelatin, or bouillon, forms a brown film upon the surface of a boiled potato. The B. frodigiosus, grown at about room temperature (15° C. to 20° C), forms a bright crimson-red pigment, but when grown at 37° C. shows no coloration, and only gradually reacquires the property of forming pigment (if at all) on returning to the more suitable conditions. In almost all cases the pigmented organisms only exhibit their colour when oxygen is present, although the essential pigmentary substance must actually be formed even in its absence, and probably then exists in the form of a leuco-product, since the colour is rapidly developed on the admission of oxygen.