293 LOCAL EFFECTS OF BURNS rapid, since it not only grows in from the edges, ljut also starts as isolated islands, among the granulations, from the epithelial remains of skin which have escaped destruction. A dull-white scar results, and since the formation of granulation tissue is not excessive, little con- traction or deformity is to be apprehended. Burns of the fourth degree are the most important with which we have to deal. The whole thickness of the true skin is destroyed, the destructive process being often shared in to a greater or less extent by the subcutaneous connective tissue and fat. Dry yellow or yellowish-black insensible eschars are formed, sur- rounded by a red zone of congestion. This line of redness, it may be noted, is a sign of vital reaction, somewhat analogous to the line of demarcation between living and dead tissues seen in gangrene. It is visible very soon after the burn is inflicted, and may be taken as a sign that the burn was inflicted during life. Sir Eobert Christison found that it was impossible to produce this line in bodies that had been dead ten minutes. Owing to the fact that the nerve terminals are destroyed with the skin, the pain that is felt is mostly experienced in the surrounding parts that have not been burnt to the same depth. Suppuration to a greater or less extent almost invariably follows burns of this degree, and, when the sloughs separate, large excavations are left which fill with granulations. Since the glands in the skin are destroyed, the spread of new epithelium is limited to that which can take place from the margins of the ulcer, a process which is an extremely slow one where there are large raw surfaces. There is often a very free growth of granulations, which require treatment. In such circumstances the formation of scar tissue is excessive, and its contraction is liable to lead to much disability and deformity. Cheloid frequently develops in such scars (Fig. 34), and, when the face is affected, vmsightly deformities may result, such as ectropion, and distortion of the mouth and ears. Joints may be flexed and the fingers rendered useless by being twisted into shapeless appendages (Fig. 35). The upper arm may even become united to the side of the chest in extensive burns of the arm and trunk. Burns of the ffth and sixth degrees, if not rapidly fatal, are usually of limited extent, being confined, perhaps, to one of the limbs. They are caused by prolonged contact with heated metal or by the action of caustics or the burning of phosphorus. General effects.—The after-effects of burns and scalds upon the body generally have been divided into three stages :— 1. Shock and collapse. 2. Inflammation. 3. Suppuration and sepsis.