726 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 5. Labial cliancre disappears under the influence of mercury ; -labial epithelioma is imaffected by it. Chancre of the tongue usually involves the anterior half, either on the dorsum, sides, or tip, and may appear— 1. As a superficial erosion seated on an indurated base. 2. As a deep ulcer with sloping edges on a hard base. 3. As a dense sclerotic mass with unbroken surface. Chancre of the tonsil is rare. It is unilateral, indurated, persistent, and accompanied by indolent glandular swellings under and at the margins of the sterno-cleido-mastoid. Facial chancre may occur from kissing, spitting, or razor cuts. The cut, after healing, reopens and becomes covered with crusts and surrounded by induration. Erosion and ulceration follow, with indo- lent swelling of the submaxillary and parotid lymphatic glands. Chancre of the eye may be palpebral or conjunctival. Con- tagion may be carried by fngers, sputum, or contaminated towels, etc. Surgeons may become infected during examination of the throat and mouth of a syphilitic patient. An ocixlar chancre usually begins as a papule, which generally becomes indurated, then eroded, and sometimes ulcerated. It is followed by enlargement of the glands in the vicinity of the ear and the angle of jaw. Chancre of the palpebral margin may be mistaken for a sty. This error may be avoided by noting the development of induration and of the glandular swellings so characteristic of the former. Conjunctival chancre may be found on the palpebral or ocular conjunctiva, but more often on the former, and then causes eversion of the eyelid. The chancre may be nodular, round or oval, or a simple hard erosion, and is accompanied by conjunctivitis and chemosis. Chancre of the breast is usually due to infection from a syphi- litic infant, nursed by a healthy woman. It appears on or about the nipple, or on the mammary integument, and may begin as a painless fissure or erosion, with scanty sanious exudate. It finally presents induration and associated adenitis. Vaccination chancre is now much rarer than in the days of arm-to-arm vaccination. The sore may appear after the vaccination has healed, or may delay its healing; it leads to the production of a smooth, painless, indurated ulcer exuding a scanty discharge. Later the anatomically related glands become enlarged and nodular. Should the vaccination not "take,'' a characteristic chancre forms. Prognosis of chancre in generaL—From the local point of view the prognosis is always favourable. Generally at the end of three or four weeks the chancre cicatrizes, and the induration disappears, leaving a pigmented scar, which ultimately becomes white. The