X-RAY EXAMINATION 638 Fig. 1, another fracture of the os calcis, associated with detacliment of the tendo Achillis ; Fig. 2, a fracture of the lower end of the tibia with cleavage of the astragalus ; Fig. 3, a remarkable fracture, comminuted in character, of the lower end of the tibia ; Fig. 4, a fracture of the posterior aspect of the lower end of the tibia, with dislocation back- wards of the ankle-joint. In the treatment of fracture, tlie apposition of the ends of the bone can be ascertained by means of the X-rays, after the limb has been set up in splints or after operation. It must be borne in mind that it is not possible to demonstrate union in fractures ; that is to say, there may be a complete and sound union of a bone, but on X-ray examination the fracture presents an appearance precisely similar to a recent one. Bony union, opaque to the ray, takes place later ; and the period occupied in laying down bone at the seat of a fract-ure appears to vary in different individuals. DISEASES OF BONE Local periostitis.—In the early stages of such a disease as this no change in the normal outline or structure of the bone is distin- guishable by the X-rays. Later, in an acute case, there may be made out, at the seat of inflammation, separation of the periosteum in the neighbourhood, with some irregularity of outline of the bone in the immediate vicinity ; such an appearance is suggestive of the presence of pus. In chronic cases, such as post-typhoidal periostitis, the bone in the position affected is deformed in outline and of increased density. The presence of pus is usually indicated by areas of almost complete translucency. An example of typhoidal periostitis of the tibia without the formation of pus is well seen in Plate 57, Fig. 1, in the position indicated. Acute osteo-myelitis.—In the early stages of this disease no abnormality of outline or structure can be observed in the affected bone. It is only in the later stages, when the periosteum has laid down new bone, and the formation of the secjuestrum is well advanced, that X-ray examination is of any value. In the long bones, when this stage has been reached, a radiogram plainly shows the old shaft surrounded by the newly formed bone, but distinctly separated from it by an area of increased translucency. When the sequestrum has been formed, its complete separation on all sides can usually be demonstrated by X-ray examination. Should, however, the infective process become localized, altera- tions in the outline and structure of the bone become visible in a radiogram at a comparatively early stage. As has already been shown.