349 DEFINITION tion, presents features entirely different from those above defiued. It results from a definite, and usually easily recognizable, cause; consists in an alteration in the tissues of the part; ceases to extend, and finally subsides, when the exciting cause ceases to act; and in many in- stances serves a useful purpose as a reaction of the tissues to an injury. Again, a simple hypertrophy differs from a tumour in consisting in a uniform increase in the tissues of a part, and in retaining, more or less exactly, the relative proportions naturally present. Most closely allied to true tumours are certain new formations or hyperplasias resulting from chronic inflammation. For instance, in the group of diseases known as the infective granulomas, and includ- ing, amongst others, tuberculosis, syphilis, leprosy, and actinomycosis, the local manifestation of the disease often takes the form of con- siderable tumour-like masses of granulation tissue resulting from the effect upon the tissues of a specific microbic agent. Such a granuloma may present features closely allied to those of a true tumour, but it is dependent for its continued growth on the continued action of the specific irritant, and if this ceases to act the resulting granuloma undergoes involution changes, leavmg, as the sole evidence of its exist- ence, a loss of substance and a cicatrix. From the clinical point of view, it may be pointed out that the syphilitic gumma more closely resembles a true tumour than any other form of chronic inflammatory new growth. A most striking instance of the close relationship which may exist between a simple hyperplasia and a true tumour formation is afforded by the papillomatous outgrowths (venereal warts) which are not uncommon on the external genitalia. These growths clearly result from the irritation of discharges, and in their earlier stages they may com- pletely disappear with the cessation of the irritation which causes them. Later, however, they may behave more like actual tumours, and present a progressive growth which is independent of the con- tinued action of the irritant. Further evidence of the difficulty of clearly dift'crentiating between the tumour formations and the hyjDertrophies and inflammatory hyper- plasias is afforded by the fact that certain tumours, especially of the malignant type, frecjuently take their origin in tissues already damaged by chronic inflammation. This subject will receive further notice subsequently, and it will be seen that in the present state of our know- ledge it is often impossible to decide exactly when the cell proliferation passes the limit which separates the chronic inflammation from the actrral tumour. Much laborious investigation has been carried out in the endeavour to determine whether the abnormal cell growth of the one condition passes imperceptibly into that of the other, or whether the action of some specific irritant is necessary to bring about the change.