330 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES brain, and this cause is important, even if the patient is totally un- conscious under general anajsthesia. These impulses can, however, be prevented from reaching the brain by blocking the nerve paths up which they travel. This block can be brought about by injecting local anaesthetics (cocaine, eucaine, novocain) into the main nerve- trunks supplying the part to be operated upon, or by operating under local ansesthesia. The use of spinal anaesthesia also is of value in preventing shock, and operations which under general ansesthesia are usually accompanied by a large amount of shock can be performed under spinal anjesthesia without shock supervening, the nerve path to the brain being completely blocked by the anaesthetic. If general anaesthesia is advisable or necessary, ether (other factors being equal) should be chosen rather than chloroform, which by its more depressing action on the heart causes a still further lowering of the blood pressure. Stimulants.—The question of the treatment of shock by the administration of stimulants will be discussed later; but here it may be stated that the use of stimulants before an ojDeration is probably of little good, and possibly may be actually harmful. Saline fluid.—In those cases where, before the operation, a large quantity of fluid has been lost from the body, either by haemorrhage, vomiting, or diarrhoea, it may be replaced by the injection of saline fluid; but this point will be discussed under the treatment of shock when it has supervened. 2. Treatment of shock.'—As the condition of shock is associated with exhaustion or inhibition of the cardio-vascular centres in the brain and is measured by the fall in the blood pressure, the rational treatment of the condition is to give time for the centres to recover, to supply them with blood, and to maintain the blood pressure during the period of recovery without calling upon the nerve centres for further work. For these purposes the following means are employed :— (1) Rest.—If sufficient time of rest can be secured the condition of shock will always pass off, as shock is a temporary condition and recovery is complete. The patient should be kept in bed lying down and absolutely at rest, everything—even changing his position—being done for him. As there is usually muscular relaxation, rest is, as a rule, easy to secure ; but in shock with restlessness the problem is more difficult and it may be necessary to give narcotics. (2) Narcotics.—These are given in the cases of shock with rest- lessness, to procure rest and sleep and so prevent exhaustion ; but they are also used for the relief of pain. Pain is one of the great causes of the maintenance of shock by its depressing effect on the brain and by preventing sleep and rest. The administration of morphia or some other narcotic which will diminish restlessness and relieve pain is