262 WOUNDS AND WOUND TREATMENT LIGATURES AND SUTURES, AND THEIR PREPARATION Very varied substances have been used for ligature and suture purposes in an endeavour to obtain a material which shall combine all the following characteristics :— (a) It must be absolutely sterilizable. (b) It must retain its tensile strength. (c) It must not be absorbed before it has fulfilled its purpose. (d) It should, however, be absorbable, so that in septic cases it may not remain in the tissues to prolong suppuration. (e) It should be soft and readily flexible, so that it may lie flat at the eye of a needle and not form an awkward bulge requiring a pull to bring it through the tissues. (/) It should be non-irritant. The materials that have been adopted fall naturally imder two heads : (1) the absorbable, such as catgut, kangaroo tendon, reindeer tendon, and ox aorta ; and (2) the non-absorbable, such as silk, linen thread, Pagenstecher's celluloid thread, silkworm gut, horsehair, silver and other wires. It is obvious that an absorbable material is ideal for buried sutures and ligatures, provided that it permits of efficient sterilization. Inasmuch, however, as none of the absorbable sub- stances used can be boiled without change in their properties, the only perfect and convenient method of disinfection, viz. that by moist heat, is applicable only in the case of the non-absorbable sutures. Catgut satisfies all the above essentials except that it will not with- stand disinfection by heat, and that usually it is less flexible than silk or thread of corresponding size. Innumerable ways of preparing catgut have been devised since Lord Lister first introduced the carbolic-oil method, which has been abandoned owing to experimental proof of its inefficacy. The iodine method of preparation is so simple and so relatively safe that we may dismiss the formalin, biniodide, and perchloride methods at once. Commercial catgut is immersed in ether for 24 hours, transferred to a 1 per cent, solution of iodine in potassium iodide for 8 days, and is then ready for use. It may be stored in the iodine solution or dry in sterilized bottles. Before use it should be steeped for a few minutes in sterilized water. Catgut prepared by the iodine method is strong, absorbable, and, in the practice of a great many surgeons, reliably aseptic. It is not so strong, however, nor so flexible as silk or thread, both of which possess the additional advantage that they can be boiled. Moreover, Richardson has collected 21 cases of post-operative tetanus following the use of catgut, but does not state the method by which it was prepared, while Webber reports three cases following iodized catgut. For septic cases an absorbable ligature has such undoubted advan-