TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS : MERCURY 765 diminish after the fifth. He therefore advises that not more than five consecutive injections be given. The preparations of metallic mercurij used must be liomogeneous and capable of injection, wliilst at tlie same time they should be of such consistence as to hold the mercury in suspension. They should be non-toxic, non-irritating, sterile, and chemically pure. Lang's latest modification of his oleum cinereura is as follows :— Metallic mercury ....... 2 parts Sterilized and anhydrous lanoline • . . .1 part Sterilized liquid paraffin. . . . . . 1 ,, = 50 per cent, of mercury. Dose : gr. f of mercury. Lafay's formula :— Metallic mercury ....... 40 parts Sterilized anhydrous lanoline . . . . . 12 ,, Sterilized white vaseline . . . . . 13 ,, Sterilized oil of vaseline . .... 3.5 ,, = 40 per cent, of mercury. Dose : gr. i to ii of nrercury. Lambkin's original formula :— Pure metallic mercury . . . . . • si- Anhydrous lanoline ...... 5iv. Liquid paraffin (carbol. 2 per cent.) . . . ad 5X. = by volume 10 per cent, of mercury. Dose : Il\x to xv. The last is the mercurial cream that has been in use in the British Army during the last ten years. Although it has yielded brilliant results, it must be acknowledged that, owing to the insolu- bility in the organism of the vehicles used for the suspension of the mercury, it, like all the other preparations of the insoluble salts, was liable to the grave objection that it entered the circulation as a foreign body, and as such produced nodosities, abscesses, and embolism. I overcame this difficulty by using palmitin as a vehicle in place of lanoline. Palmitin is a neutral fat derived from palm oil, and has the same chemical composition as the palmitin of the human syst«m. It is easily saponified in the fluids of the tissues, being converted into a soluble alkaline palmitate and glycerine. The advantages claimed for it as a vehicle are :— 1. Being already a normal constituent of the human tissues, it is easily saponified and soluble therein, and does not enter the cir- culation as a foreign body. 2. It is non-irritant and non-toxic. 3. It is not so easily oxidized as the other compounds of human fat. 4. Its melting-point can be raised or lowered with the greatest facility.