LYMPHOMA 423 that the surgeon meets with a case iu which a well-marked tumour in such a situation as the neck or axilla evidently consists of an enlarged lymphatic gland or group of glands, which are not tuber- culous. On examination, the individual enlarged glands are found to be distinct one from another, and not adherent to the surrounding tissues. The glands may be hard or soft, and on section present usually a homogeneous substance of a jjinkish colour, sometimes marked with paler areas, small yellow spots, or lisemorrhages. Such a localized glandular enlargement may be a manifestation of diseases of the leuksemic type (true and pseudo-leukaemia) or of lymph- adenoma (Hodgkin's disease). If the glandular enlargement is a manifestation of true leukcemia, the nature of the disease can be recognized by the characteristic blood changes—increase of lymphocytes or the presence of myelocytes —enlargement of the spleen, and other symptoms. In leukaemia, except in the very earliest stages, the glandular enlargement is unlikely to be limited to one region. Examined microscopically, the glands in the lymphatic type of leukaemia present a uniform hy23erplasia of the lymphoid tissue which obscures the normal structure of the gland, whilst in the myelogenous type the normal lymphoid tissue is to a large extent replaced by cells having the form of myelocytes. In pseudo-leukcemia the condition diiiers only in the absence of the characteristic blood changes, but the glands usually present the structure characterizing the lymphatic type. In lymphadenoma, or Hodgkin's disease, the glandular enlargement m i v reach a large size while still confined to one region, but sooner or later the enlargement tends to become generalized. The enlarged glands present naked-eye appearances similar to those above described, but small yellow areas of fatty degeneration are not un- common, and the consistence varies sufficiently to justify the recogni- tion of the hard and soft forms of lymphadenoma. Examined micro- scopically, the lymphadenomatous gland shows changes which at once prove that the enlargement is not the result of a simple hypertrophy. The lymphoid tissue is diminished in amount, and largely replaced by a peculiar form of granulomatous tissue, the cells of which are probably to a large extent derived from the endothelial cells of the reticulum of the gland. The varying degree of hyperplasia of the fibrous reticulum chiefly explains, according to Andrewes, the difference between the hard and soft forms of the disease. Among the cells of the new tissue a vary- ing number are often seen which are large, rounded, and multinucleated. These changes tend to spread diffusely through the gland, and the normal distinction between cortex and medulla is lost. The presence of multinucleated cells in lymphadenoma may cause a histological resemblance to some forms of tuberculosis of the lymphatic glands,