732 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS are darker and more abundant; metamorphosis into a squamous or papular character may occur (Plate 74). Relapses may be expected at any time during the first or even the second year. 2. The papular (lenticular) syphilide consists of hard, shottv, red, shiny elevations of round or oval shape, and varying in size from a millet seed to a split pea ; they are generally scattered quite irregularly over the body, are sometimes numerous on the fore- head and neck, and occasionally profuse on the face. They develop rapidly in crops, and sometimes remain for months ; then they gradually decline, but sometimes become covered at their summits with brown crusts. The papular syphilide shows two types : (a) The small, flat papu- lar syphilide (Plate 75) begins as red spots rapidly increasing from a minute size to a diameter of perhaps a quarter of an inch. First seen about the shoulders, neck, and sides of chest,. it later appears on the forehead at the margin of the scalp, and on the face, chiefly about the nose, mouth, and chin, and eventually may invade the trunk generally. (6) The large, flat papules sometimes have a dia- meter of an inch. They show a flat surface, covered with a "few adherent scales, and a red-coppery colour ; are very chronic, and cause neither pain nor itching. On thick cuticle, like that of the palms or soles, the spots are not raised into papules, but form round horny plates with copper- coloured margins ; after a time these plates become detached and replaced by thick crusts or scales or by an ulcer. This condition constitutes " s}^liilitic, palmar, or plantar psoriasis." Its early appear- ance is supposed to be the herald of a severe form of the disease. 3. The follicular syphilide shows two distinct varieties. One is made up of small, pointed, dry elevations or papules, generally scaly at the summit, and surrovmded at the bases by white, desquamating cuticle ; they may be irregularly scattered or in clusters. This rash is slow in its course, developing itself by successive crops, and sub- siding after several weeks or even months. Sometimes the little papules are converted into pustules ; they always leave minute white cicatrices. The other variety of this follicular eruption consists from the first of small pointed pustules with swollen red bases. They may be present in immense numbers, not only on the face, but also on the trunk. 4. The vesicular syphilide is rare. The vesicles are usually small, and may come out profusely over the body or in groups, the face and genitals being the commonly selected parts. They are filled with a clear fluid, and generally dry up, but may become pustular. 5. The pustular syphilide, though less common than the ery- thematous or the papular forms, may appear at any time from the