MICROPHAGKS AND M ACROIM IAGKS As has Ix'cii slated, tills eiiiigratioii is towards soiiu' attracti\'t' foi'ce wliicli is possessed most bacteria. Experimentally, it has Ix'cn shdwn Ky Leber and uihers tliat certain products of l)act('rial activity and tissue metal)oHsm, as well as certain chemical and phy- sical agents, attract waiidering' cells, whilst others lia\'e no such attrac- tive power. Glass tubes closed at the outer end and containinu chemicals were carefully introduced into the l)lood-\('ssels, and the movement of the cells into th(>se tubes ol)ser\-ed. It has been shown that vai'ious (■(impounds of mercurv, as w(_'ll as tur])entine. tincK" jiowdered coiipcr, and other substances, e.xert a jjo.silive attraction, whilst (|uinine, chloroform, glycerine, alcohol, etc., act negatively ; that weak solutions sometimes act positively, while strong ones have a negative action. The to.xins of most of the pathogenetic bacteria, if not too concentrated, attiact leucocytes in great nundiers : whilst, if they are coitcentrated. leucocyte emigration is greatly hindered. This positive and negati\'e chemiota.xis. a.s it has lieen called, can l)e well illustrated by a very simple experiment. The exposed mesentery of a frog is wasiied with iiiniiial saline solution : the leucocvtes show increased amo'boid ac'tivitv, collect at the periphery of the vessels, and migrate through the walls to tlie surface of the mesentery. II. how ever, the exposed mesentery be at once washed with a weak solution of quinine instead of normal saline, tlu^ leuc-ocytes. as Binz has pointed out, remain globulai-. and do not fiecome adherent to the walls. To prove tluit it is not merely a paralysis of the leucocytes which occurs, as Binz at first thought, it is oidv lUH'essary to remove the leucocytes from the vessels to see tlieii' amo'boid moxcment again becoming (piite evident. Thus the (|uinine has coin ei tcd a previous positire into a. iiegatin' cliemiotaxis. Associated with the miciopliages in their phagocytic work are the macrophages. These large numonucleated cells appear moderately early in any inllammatory exudate ; but it is not till about forty- eii;ht hours or more after the injurx' that tliev l)ecome \-ei'V active, 'i'hey appear to be the scavengers " of the tissues, and are concerned largely with the remo\al of dead, degenerating, or degenerated ])ro- tlucts. The ingested material is often seen in the cytopla.sm of the cells to l)e surrounded by a clear space (Plates 12. 14, lU). which contains llnid ha\ ing an acid I'eaction. In these " vacuoles."' which ina\' lie nnmei'ous, the includeil liacteria, the pol\"mor])honuclear or other cells, the fragments of degenerating and dead tissue, etc.. imdergo gradual solution and ab.sorption (Plates 12. 11. l-l. 17. I'.t). The nuchu of the ingested cells liecome fragmented, and later the chromatin partirles undergo complete solution or digestion (Plate P.)). This is lollowed by a gradual disappearance of the cytoplasm. The red i)lood-corpuscles shriidc. and their luvmoglobin may either l)e