2 T JONNESGO'S METHOD 8. Asphyxia.—This is, of course, the direct result of high anal- gesia. Even after the table has been levelled in order to limit the further ascent of the solution in the theca, the analgesia will at times attain a slightly higher level, owing probably to the diffusion of the drug. A close watch must therefore be kept on this rise as it approaches the second or third dorsal nerve-area. At this height it is clear that the intercostal muscles must be paralysed and the diaphragm alone left to carry on respiration. Especially must the rise due to forced inspiratory efforts in bronchitic and asthmatic subjects be remembered and allowance made for it. Treatment of dangeroiish/ hiij/i anahjesia.—-As in these cases the chief danger is asphyxia, where symptoms are already present the indication is to dilute the analgesic injected, as far as possible. This might be accomplished to some extent by drawing off rapidly about half an ounce of cerebro-spinal fluid. As the fluid is rapidly replaced from the cerebral ventricles, it would tend to wash down from above any of the drug remaining in the spinal theca. Artificial respiration must then be resorted to, strychnine injected hypodor- mically, and the abdomen compressed by a firm binder and pad. Fortunately the necessity for such treatment is extremely rare. Cautions to nurses.—1. Although the patient is perfectly conscious on his return to bed, his legs niay be quite insensitive to a tight bandage or the heat of a hot bottle. 2. Analgesia of the penis and rectum resolves late ; if, therefore, no precautions are taken against it, the patient may be left lying in urine and fseces unconsciously passed. 3. After short operations, where the analgesia is still unresolved, the head must be kept well raised on return to bed. Spinal analgesia applied to operations on the thorax, head, and neck.—At the International Congress of Surgery in Brussels in 19US, Jonnesco of Bucharest described a method of pro- ducing high analgesia by means of which he had been able to operate on every part of the body without interference with the respiratory or cardiac centres. Briefly, the method is as follows : The solution used is a combination of neutral sulphate of strychnine and stovaine (or other analgesic), and the former drug is used for the purpose of stimu- lating the respiratory and cardiac nerves, which it is enabled to do owing to its action being more rapid than that of stovaine. The strychnine solution is made in two strengths, viz. 5 eg. to 100 grm. of sterilized water, 1 c.c. of this representing 0'5 mg. of strychnine ; and 10 eg. to 100 grm. of water, 1 c.c. of this representing 1 mg. of .strychnine. The weaker is for high, the stronger for low analgesias. The stovaine is used in varying doses. Tiuis, in adults, head and neck operations require 3 eg., thoracic 6 to 8 eg., and abdominal 8 to 10 eg.