FEVER 343 that he complains of headache, loss of appetite, and malaise (Chart 1). This rise of temperature and malaise are due to an absorption into the blood of certain substances from the wound which free drainage would carry into the dressing. It is believed that the fever is due to the absorption of ferments, of which the most important is fibrin ferment, found in the extravasated blood and serum. This ferment has been demonstrated free in the blood after an injury, and injection of it is found to be followed by a rise of temperature. Other ferments producing the same effect are pepsin and pancreatin and solution of hfemogiobin. Aseptic traumatic fever is most marked if the tissues have been badly bruised and lacerated, or if strong antiseptics have been used. These conditions cause the blood-vessels to pour out more inflamma- tory lymph, which, if not carried off by drainage, has to be absorbed, with corresponding rise of temperature. The temperature rarely exceeds 100"^ F., except in the case of children, and usually falls to normal in forty-eight hours, although the rise may be continued longer if the amoimt of serum to be absorbed is large. With the fall of tempera- ture the other symptoms disappear. It is possible that a continuance of the fever may be associated with constipation after an operation and be due to absorption of soluble decomposing substances from the alimentary canal. Asejjtic traumatic fever requires no special treatment and may be considered almost physiological. An aperient and a suitable regulation of the diet after an operation are all that is needed. In those cases in which suppuration occurs, the condition passes into that of septic traumatic fever. 2. Infective fevers.—An infective fever is caused by the growth in woimds of various micro-organisms and the absorption into the blood of their products of metabolism. These organisms may be divided into two great groups—the specific, causing specific infec- tious fevers, and the non-specific. The non-specific are the common organisms of suppuration, such as staphylococcus, streptococcus, and B. pyocyemeus, and the symptoms caused by the absorption of their toxins are grouped under the term of septic traumatic fever or more simply sepsis. Should the organisms themselves invade the blood- .'tream and give rise to secondary metabolic inflammatory foci, the condition is spoken of as septico-pysemia. Septic traumatic fever, or sepsis.—The rise of tempera- ture in this condition may occur any time after the infliction of a womid, depending on the time of infection and the virulence and incubation period of the organism. In ordinary cases the fever is well marked on the third day after the operation, aseptic traumatic fever gradually changing into the more serious condition (Chart 2).