STREPTOCOCCUS PYOGENES 53 produce a very copious sediment, the fluid remaining in some cases clear, in others exhibiting a uniform turbidity. They are only likely to be met with by the surgeon either in stomach contents, in the air-passages, or in the ffeces, and will readily be dis- tinguished from pathogenetic forms by microscopical examination alone. Besides the forms already mentioned, S. lutea, S. aurantiaca (Plate 2, Fig. 4), *S'. fiava, S. cervvna, and 8. fusca may occasionally be found in th(! alimcntai-y ca.iial or the respiratory tract. Streptococcus pyogenes (Plate 3, Figs. 1 and 2).—Koch and Ogston were tiie first to draw a clear distinction between the streptococci and the staphylococci. In this country the latter observer carried out a careful study of their connexion with suppurative con- ditions, and indeed laid the first foundations for the scientific study of the pyogenetic cocci. He showed that while the "cluster" cocci were more commonly associated with localized suppurations, the " chaplet" or chain cocci were usually associated with spreading inflammations and phlegmonous conditions. Pure cultures of strep- tococci were first obtained by Fehleisen and Rosenbach, who thus opened the way for the exact experimental investigation of their pathogenetic action. The Streptococcus fyorjenes is a rounded coccus about 1 /x in diameter, arranged in longer or shorter chains of from 3 or 4 to as many as .50 individuals. Along with the chains are numerous dijjlo- cocci and, it may be, a number of isolated cocci. The longest chains are met with in cultures made in fluid media. A variety of the organism which in fluid media forms very long chains will, when cultivated upon solid media or when found growing in the body fluids, usually be observed to present only quite short ones. The organism is frequently somewhat flattened from side to side where it is in contact with its neighbours in the chain. It is non-motile and has no flagella. A\'hen growing in the animal body some strains of streptococci present a well-marked capsule. The streptococcus stains readily with all the ordinary basic aniline dyes both in wet preparations and in dried films. It is Gram-positive (but Gram-negative forms are sometimes found). It is aerobic, and a facultative anaerobe. Its optimum temperature is about 37° C, and its limits of growth from 12°-15° C. to about 42" C. In bouillon at 37° C. the growth frequently appears in the form of tiny granules in a clear fluid, the granules falling to the bottom to form a fine deposit. In other cases small spherical masses of growth are formed (S. corujlouieratus), or flocculi, and sometimes there is a more or less uniform turbidity. These differences depend in a great degree