BACILLUS ANTHRAGIS 6r show a wavy outline. The growth is very slimy and tenacious. Under a lov/ power of the microscope the growing edge exhibits closely set parallel threads of wavy growth like wet cotton-wool, often described as resembling maiden's hair or " Gorgon locks." On potato the bacillus forms a copious, grey-white, dryish, dense and elevated layer, and spore-forxnation takes place very freely. Milk is coagulated in an alkaline medium, and the coagulum is subsequently, though only slowly, peptonized. Coagulated blood- serum is slowly liquefied. The optimum temperature of this bacillus is about 3j ' C, and its limits of growth from 12° C. to 45° C. The bacilli themselves are rela- tively little resistant, and, in the absence of spores, are killed by an exposure of about an hour to a temperature of 53° C, and in less than 10 minutes at 65° C. The spores, however, possess considerable re- sistance both against heat and drying. They may even survive five minutes' boiling, but are killed with certainty in from 15 to 2l) minutes at 100° C. When dried, the spores will live for many months. Corrosive sublimate solution 1-1,000 will generally kill them within an hour, and carbolic acid in 5 per cent, solution kills them in 1 to 2 hours at a temperature of 55° C, but it requires more than 10 days at the room temperature. The action of corrosive sublimate, on the other hand, is practically independent of the temperature within the same limits. Although a number of observers have endeavoured to isolate the special toxic products of the anthrax bacillus both from its cultures and from the bodies of animals which have died of this infection, yet the existence of a specific anthrax toxin, whether intracellular or extracellular, still lacks satisfactory proof. The various poisonous substances which have been isolated by different investigators do not appear to possess specific properties, and do not on injection lead to the development of immunity against anthrax. This is the more re- markable since many of the features of the disease itself point to the action of a specific toxin, which probably belongs to the intracellular variety. Grown in solutions of pure proteins, the organism produces various albumoses, as was shown by Sidney Martin, and it develops an alkaline reaction in the medium, which he attributed to the formation of a specific alkaloidal substance. On injection into animals the albu- moses caused pyrexia, while the alkaloidal substance gave rise to a condition of local hyperaemia and oedema, and led to the death of the animal concerned. Boiling destroyed the action of the albumoses, but not that of the alkaloidal bod}^ Martin obtained similar substances from the bodies of animals which had died from anthrax infection, and accordingly concluded that they represented the true anthrax toxins.