342 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES drugs. The majority of tliem are cardiac depressants, and in a disease in which the chief cause of a fatal result is heart failure their action must be carefully watched. Paraldehyde is the drug most largely used for procuring sleep, as it has only a slight action on the heart. During the stage of actual delirium the patient must be most care- fully watched, for he may exhibit homicidal and suicidal tendencies, or in attempting to escape from imaginary enemies he may fail to recognize pain and danger and may seriously injure himself. The use of stimulants during the early stages of delirium tremens is a matter on which there is a difference of opinion, some surgeons with- holding them entirely whilst others advocate their use, especially in the form of alcohol or strychnine. In the younger and more robust patients stimulants are unnecessary, and in elderly patients early stimulation is followed later by depression, and harm probably results ; but in the stage of exhaustion their timely use may tide the patient over a critical period. Even then more reliance should be placed on careful and frequent feeding, good hygiene, rest, and quiet. Physical restraint in cases where it is necessary is best carried out by firmly securing the patient in bed by mechanical means so arranged that he cannot injure himself. The patient will often recognize the futility of resistance, whUst struggling with an attendant will increase the excitement and bring with it a corresponding danger of sudden heart failure. 4. Delirium after injuries to the brain.—After injury to the brain any one of the above described conditions of delirium may occur if the cause be present; but the injury to the brain itself may be the direct cause of the delirium. The condition usually depends on laceration of the brain, and particularly laceration of the frontal lobes, and is spoken of as cerebral irritation. The state is one of extreme mental irritability with physical depression, and may end in lunacy, although only about J per cent, of insanity cases can be traced to injuries of the head. FEVER Fever—that is, rise of temperature, with general malaise, occurring after an operation or accident—may be divided into three varieties, according to the cause, as follows :— 1. Aseptic traumatic feve;. 2. Infective fever. 3. Fever in connexion with injuries to the brain and cord. 1. Aseptic traumatic fever.—Within twenty-four hours of an operation or accident in which thorough drainage of the wound has not been employed, or blood is ex ravasated into the tissues, in which it will be found that the patient's temperature is above normal and