CONGENITAL SYPHILIS 792 Condylomas are found around the anus, and more rarely in the mouth ; they do not usually make their appearance until the child is some months old, often a year or more ; as a rule, the rash has disappeared, and their jjresence denotes absence or inadequacy of treatment. The pustular syphilide is the pemphigus syphiliticus neonatorum of the older writers ; it is seldom found alone, being almost invari- ably accompanied by a maculo-papular rash. The typical papules on the palms and soles confirm the diagnosis, and serve to distinguish the syphilitic pemphigus from the streptococcal variety of pemphigus neonatorum. When found alone, however, it is usually limited to the palms and soles. Syphilitic pemphigus is generally present at birth, although it may develop later, but seldom after the first few days. The streptococcal pemphigus always appears after birth, and is really a form of impetigo, impetigo being usually found in some other member of the family; it does not, as a rule, attack the palms and soles. Further, a child with syphilitic pemphigus is always wasted and looks to be at death's door, while a child with streptococcal pemphigus looks fat and cheerful. The former disease generally ends fatally, while the latter responds readily to weak antiseptic baths. Gummata are occasionally seen, but do not in any way differ from the acquired form. Cases have also been described (Brinitzer, SchifE) of symmetrical gangrene (Eaynaud), with and without haemogiobinuria, occurring in children after 2 years of age. It is still a question whether the cases of purpura which have been described as occurring in congenital syphilitics, usually between the ages of 5 and 10 years, are really specific in nature. The nails are not exempt, and syphilitic onychia is by no means uncommon. The matrix becomes inflamed, and the nail over it loses its gloss and becomes irregular on the surface ; tlie whole nail is gradu- ally shed, and, unless mercurial treatment is given, the new nail will likewise suffer. The bullae of pemphigus may affect the matrix, the nail being raised ofi^ its bed and undermined by sero-pus. Diffuse defluvium capillitii is not uncommon in congenital syphilis. Some children are born without any hair on the head, but such an occurrence is distinctly rare. The lanugo hair often persists longer than usual; Avhen it dis- appears the scalp is left bald or sparsely covered, since, owing to the malnutrition, the new hair does not grow. The alopecia may affect the eyebrows also; Barlow regards thinning of the eyebrows in an infant a few months old as very suggestive of syphilis. Teeth.—Contrary to current opinion, the primary teeth are