X-RAY EXAMINATION 632 even after operation, it is doubtful whether the neighbouring joint is involved, X-ray examination frequently enables the question to be settled. If the joint is affected by acute arthritis the bones become irregular in structure and their articular margins irregular in outline. Gonorrhceal arthritis.—The appearance presented by a joint affected by this disease I have found to be characteristic. The bones are markedly more translucent, and their structure can be seen to be irregular; but no alteration in outline of the articular surfaces is to be made out (Plate 45, Fig. 2). Gouty arthritis.—In cases of this disease little or no change in the normal aspect of the joint may be observable, but the mere fact that such is the case is a useful indication of the mode of treatment and serves to indicate the prognosis. In chronic gout there may develop appearances very similar to those seen in true osteo-arthritis with osteophytic outgrowth from the articular margins of the joint. In investigating the condition of the larger joints it is advisable to secure, in addition, a radiogram of the bones and joints of the hand ; the presence of periosteal nodes at the attachments of the lateral ligaments of the interphalangeal joints affords a fairly constant indica- tion of gouty inflammation. Plate 45, Fig. 3, is an example of such nodes. In a doubtful case of inflammation of a large joint, demon- stration of such nodes on the bones of the hand may lead to a correct diagnosis of gout. Rheumatoid arthritis (chronic rheumatism, poly- articular rheumatoid arthritis).—The characteristic bony lesions of this disease can best be seen in the bones of the hand. There are present, in relation with the articular surfaces, dis- tinct areas of necrosis which have a " punched-out" appearance. These areas may be sufficiently extensive in the case of the first phalanges to cause by mere loss of bony tissue the ulnar deflection of the fingers which is generally present. Plate 45, Fig. 4, is the radiogram of such a case, showing necrosis of the base of the phalanges associated with ulnar deflection. All the bones of the hand are found to be more translucent than is normal, and the carpal bones lacking details; the carpus, as a whole, presents a conglomerate, " mushed-up " appearance—that is, the individuality of the bones is lost and the articular surfaces of the lower ends of the radius and ulna are also irregular in outline. Plate 46, Fig. 1, is a radiogram of a case showing sharply circumscribed areas representing a loss of bony tissue. Fig. 2 is a radiogxam of a case exhibiting similar areas ; here, however, the general bony changes are well marked. Fig. 3 is a radiogram of a knee-joint in a case of rheumatoid arthritis where very extensive bony changes are observable.