T40 INFLAMMATION from the lungs by respiration. The occurrence of pyrexia is therefore an indication of either increased heat production or diminished heat loss. That the former suggestion is the only tenable one may be sur- mised from the obvious evidences of increased metabolism given by the wasting of fatty and muscular tissues, and the increase of urea and urates in the urine, and has been conclusively shown to be so by calorimetric observations in animals. It is generally held that the increased heat production is not due to direct action of the circulating toxins or other pyrogenetic substance on the tissues, but rather to the derangement by them of the heat- regulating centre. The other phenomena observed in fever may be explained by the action of the toxic substances in the blood on the cells of the organs through which it circulates ; thus changes are found, and may be demonstrated microscopically, in the cells of the heart muscle, of the kidney, and of the liver and other secreting glands of the digestive system. Terminations of inflammation.—When the inflammation has not been severe or prolonged in character, the exudate may dis- appear, the blood-flow through the inflamed tissues be restored, and the vessels return to the normal. In such a case resolution is said to have taken place. In other cases the inflammatory action progresses ; the continued action of the bacteria causes degeneration and death of the cells in the inflamed tissues and in the exudate, and so pus is formed. The second termination of inflammation is thus in suppuration. Again, when inflammation is of longer standing, the tissues of the part become replaced to a greater or lesser degree by a mass of cells such as are present in inflammatory exudates. This mass of cells does not become absorbed again into vessels and lym- phatics, but remains, and, undergoing vascularization, forms granu- lation tissue. This later undergoes further transformation into fibrous tissue, bone, etc., according to its site. Such changes are particu- larly likely to arise when the inflammation is of a less severe or sub- acute type, but may also be a subsequent stage in the acute process, the formation of granulation tissue with its sequel, fibrosis, continu- ing sluggishly and producing the condition of chronic inflammation. When a free surface of skin or mucous membrane is inflamed the process may terminate in ulceration. Lastly, when the causal agent of the inflammation is of an unusually virulent type, or when con- stitutional or local changes have lessened the resistance of the tissues, gangrene may occur. The immediate cause of this is deprivation of blood supply due to extensive surrounding thrombosis, and such a termination is particularly hkely to arise when the density of the inflamed tissues is such as to render it difficult for swelling to take place in response to exudation. This will cause the vessel to suffer