PATHOLOGY OF BURNS 297 three heads : those due (1) to shock, (2) to non-bacterial toxins, and (3) to septic infection. The symptoms produced by each factor merge into the others, and it is impossible clinically to draw any hard-and-fast line of distinction between them. Shock consists in a state of profound depression of a large number of centres in the grey matter of the central nervous axis. The source of the afferent impulses productive of this state of central inhibition is the widespread and serious damage done to multitudes of nerve endings in the skin and underlying structures. The histological accompaniment of this nerve exhaustion is evidenced by a certain degree of chromatolysis or partial destruction of the granules of Nissl. Degenerative changes in the internal organs, especially the liver, kidneys, and lymph-glands, similar to those produced by the bacterial toxins of typhoid and diph- theria, have been observed by Bardeen and McCrae before sufficient time had elapsed for septic infection to occur. Cloudy swelling has been noted within six hours of the occurrence of a burn. The toxins responsible for these changes are produced by the physico-chemical damage to the tissues of the skin and proteins of the blood as a result of the application of heat. At the same time, it is to be remarked that experiments upon animals have not confirmed the presence of specific toxins in the blood and tissues from cases of burns. During the stage of inflammation, congestion is liable to appear in the lungs and pleura, the intestines, the brain and its meninges; and in the event of marked infection the usual signs of severe septic intoxication are observed in the internal organs. Toxaemia ranks second to shock as a cause of death following burns, and is produced by toxins both bacterial and non-bacterial in character. Pyaemia is a rare complication, as is showm by the fact that in a series of over 200 cases I have seen only one instance of this condition. Infection with extraneous pathogenetic bacteria may occur, as in any other open wound, and one case of tetanus following a burn was recorded in Birmingham in 1908. Treatment. General.—The majority of pjitients, when first seen, are in a state of profound shock urgently calling for treatment. Every effort must be made to get the patient warm and to restore the failing circulation. As a substitute for the somewhat inefficient hot-water bottle, the device employed by Waterhouse is useful. In the case of a child, a 32-candle-power electric lamp is placed beneath the cradle which covers it, and the temperature of the air can thus easily be maintained at about 103° F. until shock has passed off. Normal saline solution should be slowly injected into the rectxim every few hours in quantities varying from 2 oz. for a small child to a pint for an adult. Half an ounce of brandy may be conveniently added to the saline, especially when it is difficult to administer everything by the mouth.