680 LOCAL ANiESTHESIA By GWYNNE WILLIAMS, M.D., M.S., F.R.G.S. Local analgesia may be said to have had its practical beginning with the discovery of the anaesthetic properties of cocaine. This drug was first employed in ophthalmological practice, and its use soon extended into the domains of rhinology and laryngology. In all these it is still predominant as compared with other departments of surgery. In the regions of the eye, nose, and lar}Tix anajsthesia was induced by the local application of the drug to the surface. The next step was the injection into the tissues of solutions in strengths varying from 2 to 20 per cent. ; but as this method, although successful in pro- ducing angesthesia, led to marked and sometimes fatal toxic effects, attempts were made in various directions to obviate this drawback. First, Schleich used a solution so dilute as 0'2 per cent, cocaine in a hypotonic salt solution, believing that the hypotonicity aided the anaesthesia ; but H. Braun has shown that the required effect can be produced just as easily with 0'2 per cent, cocaine in an isotonic salt solution, which, of course, has the advantage that it does not damage the tissues. Secondly, Corning showed that the injection of cocaine into a nerve trunk caused anaesthesia in the area of distri- bution of the nerve ; so that by infiltration about the nerves going to any region the latter could be antesthetized by smaller, relatively non-toxic doses of the drug, without soaking the field of opera- tion, and in this way rendering the tissues unrecognizable owing to oedema. Thirdly, it was discovered that the anaesthetic effect of cocaine could be exalted and prolonged by cutting off the blood return from the part to be operated upon, e.g. by means of an Esmarch's bandage ; this also had the advantage of decreasing the general poison- ing influence of the drug. Of course this method was only practicable in the limbs, and it was not until the discovery of the vaso-constrictor effect of extract of the suprarenal gland that local analgesia could be used satisfactorily for major operations requiring protracted anaesthesia. This drug, by producing an anaemia of the part, slows the absorption of the anaesthetic into the general circulation, and by keeping it at the