38 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY The best results are obtained with sputum and the like by placing a small quantity of the material to be examined between two slides, wliich are squeezed together and then slowly and steadily drawn apart. The smears thus pro- duced are again brought together and again drawn apart, and the process is repeated until the material is evenly spread. The films are then dried and fixed. Blood fiI IDS are best prepared in the following manner : Two very care- fully cleaned slides are taken, and on the one, which is held in a horizontal position in the left hand, a drop of blood is placed near its right extremity. The other slide, held in the right hand, is now brought down on the drop in such a way that the blood spreads across its lower end and lies between it and the horizontal slide, to which it is inclined at an angle of about 45°. The slide in the right hand is now pushed steadily along tlie horizontal slide and draws the blood after it so that a thin and even film is left upon the second slide (Fig. 1). Fig. 1.—Preparation of blood films. The film is allowed to dry in the air, and then fixed either in the process of staining with Leishman's or Jenner's stain, or by ether-alcohol (ether 1 part, absolute alcohol 2 parts), or by heating in air at 120° C. for half an hour in some suitable apparatus. Urine films should be made from the deposit obtained by centrifugai- ization, or, where no centrifuge is available, by allowing the urine to stand in a conical glass for a number of hours. The deposit is then removed by means of a pipette. A film is made on the surface of a carefully cleaned slide, and dried as well as possible. In certain cases it is difficult to get the film quite dry owing to the presence of hygi'oscopic salts in the urine, and, consequently, unless treated by a special method the films almost in- variably wash off in the process of staining. In such cases the slide must be treated after drying with successive quantities of an ether-alcohol mixture (ether 1 part, alcohol 2 parts), which helps to dry more thoroughly and to fix the film. The fluid is tlien jDoured ofl^, and the slide allowed to dry in air and flamed. Subsequently the film is treated with 1 per cent, hydro- chloric acid, which removes the inorganic salts, urates, etc. It is then well washed with water, dried, and stained. Wet films.—When a culture of bacteria is to be investigated it is fre- quently a great advantage to examine it in a wet condition, both with and without the jjresence of a stain, as well as in dried films. Indeed this pro- cedure should never be omitted in examining any culture, as many bacteria lose to a great extent their most characteristic morphological appearances when dried and killed. The following is the method to be used. A clean slide is taken, and upon it, at a little distance from each end, are placed two tiny drops, one of water,