ANTHRAX 896 vesicles containing a clear or semipurulent fluid. Around the vesicle is a red, indurated area, beyond which there is oedema of the skin and the cellular tissues. In some cases, however, the black slough or vesicles may be absent, and in early cases the redness and oedema may be slight. Occasionally there is no definite pustule, but a large brawny area with much oedema, simulating an ordinary cellulitis. When this condition, known as "anthrax oedema,"' occurs in the neck, there is a serious danger that it may extend to the mediastinum, or to the larjTix, where it is likely to cause oedema of the glottis, probably requiring a tracheotomy. Constitutional symptoms vary in severity, but headache and dizziness are usually present, and occasion- ally vomiting and shivering. The temperature is only slightly raised as a rule, but may reach 103° F. The lymphatic glands which drain the affected area enlarge, but, even when very large and tender, do not suppurate. In fatal cases the bacillus becomes widely diffused throughout the body, producing a form of septicfemia known as anthracsemia. In these cases the local swelling and glandular enlargement are usually marked, and the general symptoms are more severe. The pulse becomes weak and rapid, and the temperature usually rises, occasionally as high as 105° F. Vomiting is frequently noticed, and occasionally there may be diarrhoea. Breathing becomes rapid and shallow, the patient grows restless and delirious, and there may be other signs that the nervous system is involved. Thus, a patient under Davies-Colley in Guy's Hospital had right-sided con- vulsions, a divergent squint, and Cheyne-Stokes respiration ; wliile a patient of Durham's had tenderness over the dorsal spinous j^ro- cesses, a sensation of " pins and needles " in the limbs, paresis of the legs, and dyspnoea owing to paresis of the diaphragm and inter- costal muscles. These patients usually die in a state of coma about a week after the onset; or death may result from cardiac failitte. Diagnosis.—When the pustule has the characteristic appear- ance, and is associated with enlargement of the neighbouring lym- phatic glands, the diagnosis is usually easy. The occupation of the patient helps considerably. Any unusual septic lesion in a patient working among skins or hides should arouse a suspicion that it may be anthrax. Cases of anthrax oedema may be mistaken for cellulitis, or a pustule may be regarded as a boil, an acne spot, or a cutaneous septic lesion. Fortunately, microscopic examination of the fluid from the vesicles, or of blood from the centre of the lesion, after staining by Gram's method (in which the colour is retained), or with methylene blue, will readily demonstrate the characteristic rod-shaped organisms and lead to recognition of the disease.