SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 72 One of the simplest and most satisfactory methods is to giow the organism for one month at 37° C. in glycerine-bouillon, which is then sterilized at 110° C. The fluid is next evaporated in a water-bath to one-tenth of its original volume, and filtered. For use it is diluted to a suitable strength with | per cent, carbolic-acid solution. Mallein thus prepared is used as a diagnostic test in animals, since it is found that the injection of a small amount of this substance produces only slight effects in normal animals, but leads to local swelling and a marked rise of temperature in animals suffering from glanders infec- tion. The quantity of toxin to be used is determined by test observa- tions upon horses. The dose selected is the largest amount which can be inoculated into a normal animal without producLug more than at most a very slight reaction, and the strong toxin is diluted as above described, so that this quantity may be contained in a convenient volume of the fluid. The test, if carried out with due precautions, is practically always foimd to give a reliable diagnosis. Mallein has also been used as a therapeutic agent in the treatment of glanders, in both animals and man, being employed after the manner of a vaccine as a means of stimulating the reaction of the tissues, and leading to the rapid development of active immunity. Up to the present, however, the results recorded are too contradictory to justify a definite statement as to the value of this method of treatment. The preparation of antitoxic serums has also been attempted, but no results of practical value have hitherto been obtained. The Bacillus mallei is pathogenetic for a large number of animals and for man. Inoculated subcutaneously in the horse, it produces a characteristic attack of the disease. Of laboratory animals the guinea-pig is the most susceptible, and should always be employed for diagnostic purposes. The suspected material is inoculated intra- peritoneally in a male guinea-pig, and if the bacillus is present there rapidly occurs a purulent inflammation of the tunica vaginalis and testicles, and death usually takes place in about seven to fourteen days, from a general infection. As it occurs in man, glanders infection is usually acquired from the horse, especially by contact with discharges from the nose, or from the ulceration of " farcy buds." The bacillus gains an entrance either through the respiratory mucous membrane or through an abrasion of the skin, and may produce either an acute infection or a chronic form of the disease. Glanders has repeatedly occurred in man as the result of accidental inoculations with pure cultures of the organism during laboratory investigations. Bacillus diphtherias (diphtheria bacillus). — This organism (Plate 6, Figs. 2 and 3) was first described by Klebs in 1883 in the false membrane of diphtheria. In the following year Loffler