GANGRENE 214 an important vein is occluded, for tlie number of superficial and deep veins is so great, and tlieir anastomoses are so free, that there is always some channel by which the blood can return. Though the only ob- vious cause of gangrene of the lower extremity occurring during the com'se of typhoid fever has been thrombo-phlebitis of the femoral vein, it is highly probable that other conditions, in the form of general debility, toxaemia, and a sluggish circulation, have been the real deter- mining factors. On the other hand, venous thrombosis following pressure due to prolonged application of a tight bandage or a tour- niquet, or to a rapidly growing tumour or a large aneurysm, is usually followed by moist gangrene because the majority, if not all, of the veins are obliterated. Simultaneous thrombosis of an artery and a vein, though occasionally resulting from any of the causes of thrombosis already mentioned, more often follows a severe injury like the passage of a cart-wheel across a limb, when the coats of the vessels are exten- sively damaged or torn. Symptoms.-—The signs of gangrene due to arterial thrombosis develop slowly, and are generally ushered in by certain premonitory symptoms. The limb aches, power diminishes, pain and cramps, followed by rigidity, are experienced in the muscles, and soon the limb becomes cold, pulseless, and paralysed. The blanched skin is marbled in places with patches of red, and the course of the veins is mapped out by dusky lines. An area of dry gangrene, depending upon the extent of the collateral circulation, now develops, and if left would in time be cast off in the usual manner. When necrosis is due to venous obstruction alone, or to both arterial and venous obstruction, the skin, instead of being white, becomes oedematous and dusky-red from congestion, blebs form on the surface, the epidermis peels off, and moist gangrene sets in. Treatment.—When the gangrene is due to arterial thrombosis, the rules already laid down for the treatment of embolic gangrene hold good ; but when arterial thrombosis is complicated by venous obstruc- tion, or when venous thrombosis exists alone, an amputation above the level of the lesion should be performed as soon as possible. 4. Gangrene due to ligation of vessels.—Ligature of the main artery rarely causes gangrene in a limb, because the col- lateral circulation in healthy vessels, no matter how feeble, is gener- ally sufficient to maintain life untU the arterioles have accommodated themselves to the altered conditions. If, however, the vitality of the tissues is already lowered by exhausting diseases, or if the peri- pheral and collateral vessels are narrowed by endarteritis or calcare- ous degeneration, dry gangrene of limited extent is likely to occur. Again, should the main vein be ligated or damaged at the same time, gangrene, though not absolutely inevitable, is very prone to super-