TRKATMKNT Ol- ACL TI-: IXFLAM M A 1 l( )\ i |3 slings, ami bandages are employcil to this end, and in some cases the recumbent position is called for. It is advisable to raise the inflamed part, as there can be no doubt that pain is therebv diminished. Heat.—The ap]jlication of heat is the most generally emploj'cd method of Ircatinu inlhininiation. .\septic oi- antiseptic fomentations are usually applicil. They ha\'e the disajhantage that they lose heat very quickly, antl from this point of view jioultices are preferable. Since, however, poultices are incapable of efficient sterilization and are dirty in application, they must never be u.sed for an open wound, nor in cases where incision is likely to l)ecome necessary. Cold.—The application of cold is chiefly of service in limiting exudation and extravasation of f)lood after injury. In inllammatory alVections due to bacterial invasions its use is doubif\d. It is oft;>n employed in the early stages of deeji-seated iullammatoiy foci. Any relief that it gives in these ca.ses is probably due to its effect on the sensory nerve termiiuds. which reflexly influences other nerve cells at the sami' level in tiie cord. These cells control the blood supply of the deeper parts ; diminution of congestion is thus brought about, and consequent relief of pain. In superficial inflanunations—cellulitis or erysipelas, for instance—relief of pain is undoubted, but no treat- ment is more calculated than is cold to produce widespread sloughin<!,-. Evaporating lotions, ice-bags, and Leiter's tubes are the usual metliods of applyin<i cold. Scarification and incision.—These measures are employed wliere there is much swelling and len.-^ion in the part and a sluggish circula- tion calls attention to the danger of necrosis. The former measure is employed in intlammation of mtu'ous membranes, a series of superficial cuts being nuide with the point of a scalpel over the affected part. Incisions are serviceable, more particularly in infhinunation of dense cellular ti.ssue and of the periosteum of bones. They should be planned with due regard to the anatomical structure of the part. Fomentations art' subse(iuently applied to encourage the discharge. Leeches and cupping are employed for the purpose of local blood- letting over a deep-seated inllammatory focus. The amount of blood icmoved by these means is so small that it can have no influence on the general blood pressure. That the amount of blood passing through the deep parts is directly affected is inconceivable, since th?re is usually verv little connexion between the superficial and the deep vascular supph . Anv eifect is probaV)ly of a reflex nervous origin, as in the case of cold. Bier's hyperaemic treatment.—The technique of this treatment is described \:\ the :Mticlc on Suppuration (p. 191). Its rationale may be briefly summarized thus : Inflammation is not in itself a disea.se, ljut a contlition brought about by the attempt of the Jiving body to rtqicl