TUMOURS of large, tortuous, intercommunicating, pulsating vessels, sometimes forming a tumour extending over a considerable area. At the peri- pheral parts of the mass the normal arterial trunks are much enlarged, and can be traced into it. Accompanying the pulsation a loud bruit may be audible to the patient as well as to the observer. The whole tumour has a convoluted surface and a bluish colour ; the overlying skin may also be nsevoid, and in the scalp generally becomes hairless. Plexiform angioma usually develops gradually in young adults, but in some instances it appears to have originated in a small con- genital nsevus. In other cases the disease has followed an injury, and it is possible that in some cases of this nature an arterio-venous communication has been present. Although most common on the scalp, plexiform angioma has been met with elsewhere. It has been known to occur in connexion with the cerebral arteries, and has been recorded on the hands and feet. Bland-Sutton mentions a case which came under his treatment in which a large tumour of this nature was situated in the perineum, the corpus spongiosum being surrounded by numbers of large vessels, some having the characters of arteries and others of veins. The disease has also been recorded in the orbit as a very exceptional cause of pulsating exophthalmos. A plexiform angioma tends to increase, often at an irregidar rate, and may prove fatal from haemorrhage, or from ulceration and septic complications. It has already been remarked that cavernous angiomas are often wrongly termed venous, and also that in plexiform angiomas some of the component vessels may partake of the character of veins rather than arteries. True venous angiomas can indeed hardly be recognized as a distinct variety. In certain cases of varix, however, in which the venous dilatation occurs in early hfe, independently of any obvious venous obstruction, and is limited in its distribution, the condition may be regarded as rather of the nature of a vascular new growth than as a mere va.ricose enlargement of a normal vein. The associa- tion of this variety of varicose veins with cavernous angiomas has occasionally been observed. Angioma of the tongue.—Mention has been made of capil- lary na'vi occurring in the mucous membrane of the tongue, some- times associated Avith multiple telangiectases of the skin and mucosae. Cavernous angiomas are sometimes met with in this situation as isolated spongy tumours in or beneath the mucous membrane, or in com- bination with lymphangioma in some cases of congenital macroglossia. In a specimen preserved in the Museum of University College Hospital the condition appears to be rather of the nature of a plexiform angioma.