CIRCULATORY-DISTURBANCE GANGRENE 211 IV. Gangrene due to physical and chemical agents. 1. Heat. 2. Cold. 3. Escharotics. V. Gangrene due to infective processes. 1. Acute intlanimation. 2. Emphysematous gangrene. 3. Cancrum oris. 4. Phagedfcna. VI. Diabetic gangrene. I. GANGRENE AS A RESULT OF CIRCULATORY DISTURBANCES 1. Gangrene due to impairment of the general circulation seldom depends upon cardiac insufficiency alone, but rather upon a combination of circumstances which includes the condition of the arteries, the slowness of the circulation, and the nutrition of the tissues. Malformations of the heart, degeneration of its muscle, or diseases of the endocardium, predispose to gangrene when the circulation is feeble, or actually cause it by liberating emboli. A patent foramen ovale, and mitral or pulmonary stenosis, predispose to gangrene because aeration of the blood is not complete. Degenera- tion of the cardiac muscle leads to lowered blood pressure, feeble circulation, and capillary stasis, whereby the vitality of the tissues is so diminished that they readily succumb to pressure, to a trivial injury, or to a mild degree of inflammation. Exhausting diseases, severe hfemorrhage, starvation, and physical exhaustion act in a similar manner on the tissues, and also encourage the formation of thrombi in the vessels, particularly in the extremities, where the circulation is especially feeble. Symptoms.—This variety of gangrene has a tendency to be dry imless thrombosis or embolism of a large vessel, or any other cause of sudden and complete stasis, be the determining factor, when it is more likely to be moist. The symptoms preceding its onset are usually masked by those of the disease or condition with which it is associated. Sooner or later it will be noticed that the whole or part of a limb, possibly only the tip of a digit or the lobe of an ear, has become cold, pulseless, and insensitive ; or, if much fluid be present, local death is heralded by dusky-red, indurated patches surmounted by blebs containing sanious fluid. The onset of gangrene in these cases is usually a terminal sign, is often symmetrical, and is soon followed by the death of the patient.