TUMOURS 590 a child 2 years of age, who died with extensive recurrence in the pelvis three and a half months after the operation. There were also masses of growth in the lumbar and iliac glands. The primary tumour was partly cystic and partly solid. The cysts were lined with columnar epithelium, and the solid part of the growth, as well as the deposits' in the glands, had the structure of an " adeno-carcinoma." Closely allied to the congenital sacro-coccygeal tumours are the dermoid cysts which have occasionally been foimd between the sacrum and the rectum. Teratomas of other parts of the spine are exceedingly rare. We have described a specimen in the Proceedings of the Royal Society of Medicine, in which a large teratoma, situated behind the peritoneum in the left renal region, was very intimately connected with the spinal cohimn, and actually projected into the spinal canal (Fig. 164). Teratoma of the thorax—A considerable number of cases are on record in which a teratoma, usually in the form of a dermoid cyst, has been present in the thorax, the tumour being situated in the mediastinum, Imig, or pericardium. The effects which may result from such a tumour are illustrated by Godlee's well-lmown case, in which a right-sided pleurisy, followed by empyema, was the first striking evidence of serious disease. Later the empyema ruptured into a bronchus, and as in other recorded cases, hairs were present in the expectoration. By operation a cavity filled with hair and fatty material was opened ; the cavity was lined with skin, and three fleshy masses bearing hairs on their surface projected into it. The cavity remained open, and the patient died about three years later of some septic complication. In a case recorded by Ritchie a mediastinal teratoma occurring in the male presented in part the structure of chorion-epithelioma, and nodules which were present in the lungs showed the same structure. Teratoma of the abdomen.—Apart from the teratomas which originate in the genital organs and those occurring in the retro- peritoneal tissue, tumours of a similar nature and probably arising from fcetal inclusion have been described in various parts of the abdominal cavity, such as the region of the liver, the transverse mesocolon, and beneath the diaphragm. Teratoma of the neck—A congenital tumour is occasionally met with in the neck which closely resembles the sacro-coccygeal tumours above described. Of four specimens in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, three are median, but in the fourth a tumour extends from the left side of the neck upwards under the ascending ramus of the jaw, causing great deformity and compressing the brain. According to Keith, in none of these four specimens can