8/4 ACTINOMYCOSIS spore-like bodies. From this there radiate many fine threads, which may or may not show Icnobbed ends. The fungus is saprophytic, and probably dependent upon the presence of some particle of decaying vegetable matter lodged in a hollow tooth or other cranny. Its normal habitat is said to be inside the husks or sheaths of barley and other grasses. Its mode of ingress into animals appears to be through abrasions in the mucous membrane, especially of the tongue, mouth, etc., due to scratches with infected grain. In man it is generally stated to gain entrance on particles of chewed grasses or inhaled grain-dust which become lodged in abrasions of the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, in a tonsillar crypt, or in the hollow of a carious tooth. It seems probable that the presence of such a foreign particle is necessary for the initiation, if not for the progress, of the disease. Cases are recorded of infection by means of dental instruments and of splinters of wood. Although the infection usually occurs through the alimentary or respiratory tracts, the fungus may effect an entry through the skin or through the genito-urinary system. In connexion with the relationship, first observed by Israel in 1878 and since then frequently confirmed, between actinomycosis and carious teeth, it is interesting to note that recently Lord has found, in the carious teeth of individuals without actinomycosis, organisms wliich have the morphology and staining reactions of actinomyces, and which have caused actinomycotic omental tumours in guinea-pigs inoculated with the contents of such teeth. Predisposing factors.—These are—1. Occupation. The disease is usually met with in men associated with the farming, stevedoring, and corn-chandlery industries. 2. The lodgment of a particle of grain. 3. Sex. The afiection is about twice as frequent in men as in women. 4. Age. Actinomycosis is commonest between the ages of 20 and 40. Distribution of the lesions.—The fungus may attack any organ, but it shows a special tendency to spread in tissues of the connective-tissue type (areolar tissue, fibrous tissue, bones, and muscles). The commonest site in man is near the angle of the jaw; in cattle, in the tongue or jaw. Usually the disease first involves some part of the tongue, gastro-intestinal or respiratory tracts ; but pri- mary cases have been observed in the skin and the genito-urinary organs, e.g. in the kidney, prostate, and vagina. Secondarily, either by local spread or by metastasis, any tissue or organ may become involved—pleura, peritoneum, bones, liver, and even brain.