CHLOROFORM 673 used in the case of C.E. are perfectly applicable here. The principle of gradual administration is to be strictly adhered to, and the amount of liquid allowed to fall upon the mask is to be very much less than in the case of C.E. Moreover, only one layer of thin flannel is to be used on the mask, and the mask should ^^ever rest upon the jace. Only by observing this rule can the certainty of not supplying an overdose be secured. Should the mask rest upon the face, then by compara- tively complete exclusion of air even small quantities of chloroform dropped upon the mask will soon raise the strength of the vapour inhaled to a dangerously high percentage. On the other hand, if the mask does not touch the face, even if its covering is wet throughout with chloroform, there will be such dilution provided by the air between the mask and the face that danger of overdose is not likely. In employmg this method of admmistration, then, begin with the mask held a couple of inches off the patient's face, which is turned on one side. Breathing being smoothly and regularly in progress, allow ten drops to fall upon the centre of the mask. Let this gradu- ally approach the face till at the end of a minute it is at a distance of half an inch. During the second minute allow twenty drops to fall on the mask, still keeping this just off the face. From the end of the second mmute add the chloroform more freely, till at the end of the fourth minute the lower half of the mask is kept moist. By this time the patient, who may have been talking incoherently, will prob- ably be quite unconscious, although all the reflexes will remain active. There may be also some sitting-up movements and some rigid exten- sion of arms and legs. Keep the lower half of the mask, which still does not touch the face, uniformly moist, rub the lips if there be hold- ing of the breath, and by the end of the sixth to eighth minute snoring breathing will denote the advent of anjesthesia. The muscles of the limbs will now be relaxed ; the puj^il wUl be of small medium size, reacting to light ; the conjunctiva insensitive ; and the corneal reflex present, but less brisk than in the conscious subject. Antesthesia is now deep enough for the majority of operations. For abdominal cases, however, or for those on especially sensitive parts, such as the ends of the fingers and toes, urethra, etc., it should be carried still farther before the initial incision is allowed. In these cases the corneal reflex should be abolished, the pupil being kept small. In giving chloroform by this method, it is most important to bear in mind— 1. That chloroform is most rapidly absorbed during the first two minutes of inhalation ; therefore the quantity offered for inhalation during this period must be most carefully restricted. 2. That during the period of spasm, with holding of the breath, which not uncommonly arises iji the early minutes, no attempt nuist 2 R