212 GANGRENE Treatment.—The occurrence of gangrene may be delayed or prevented by the administration of cardiac stimulants, by inhalation of oxygen, by venesection when the heart's action is embarrassed, or by saline infusion when fluid is required during the stage of shock or after severe hajmorrhage. When thrombosis is feared, friction must be avoided lest emboli be set free, and 20-gr. doses of sodium citrate given thrice daily for the purpose of diminishing the coagula- bility of the blood. Warmth in the part must be maintained, and all sources of pressure avoided. Surgical interference is seldom required, as the condition of the patient usually precludes recovery. If an amputation is considered advisable, it should be so planned as to be well above the seat of obstruction. 2. Gangrene due to embolism—Embolism of a large artery is a frequent cause of gangrene. It acts by suddenly cutting off the blood supply from a large area of tissue whose vitality, already lowered by pre-existing cardiac disease or endarteritis, is unable to survive the temporary ischsemia, and therefore death of the part occurs before an efficient collateral circulation can be established. Without doubt, disease of the small vessels and arterioles, leading to a diminution of their calibre, is the most important factor in the production of gangrene of the extremities following the sudden interruption of the arterial circulation, whether it be due to embolism, thrombosis, or ligation; for, in the limbs at all events, the anastomotic circulation is usually sufficient to maintain life, provided the small vessels are of normal size and resilience. This is proved by the number of times that the external iliac, the common femoral, and the axillary arteries have been ligated with impunity. On the other hand, embolism of the superior mesenteric or pulmonary arteries is always followed by gan- grene, as their terminal twigs, being " end " arteries, do not anasto- mose. Embolism is more frequent in the old, but may occur at any age. Emboli, though usually associated with organic disease of the heart, in which case they arise from vegetations on the valves or from coagula in its cavities, are sometimes composed of calcareous plates that have been dislodged from an atheromatous artery; they are usually arrested at the bifurcation of a large vessel, particularly in the lower extremity. Symptoms.—The immediate effect of an embolus is the onset of intense pain at the site of its arrest—a most valuable sign, inasmuch as it points to the cause and position of the obstruction. The flow of arterial blood ceases, and the skin becomes white ; later, as the collateral circulation develops, it regains its colour over an area corre- sponding to the distance the blood has permeated. If the anasto- motic vessels dilate rapidly enough the part will recover completely, but if there be a delay in the re-establishment of the circulation a