773 IODIDE OF POTASSIUM various tonics—besides which, care in living and dieting is very necessary. Second only to specific medication do I consider hydrotherapy ior hot baths of all Icinds favour the elimination of mercury and, what is of greater importance, increase and maintain metabolism gener- ally. Hot-air baths are best, then Turkish baths, and, last, hot- water baths. At Rochester Row every patient undergoing either mercurial or arylarsonate treatment for syphilis sits in a hot-air bath ■at a higii temperature daily for ten minutes. Iodide of potassium.—Iodide of potassium at one time was supposed to have a specific action in syphilis ; but for many years it has been regarded not as a specific, but as a valuable adjunct to mercury. In the early stages of the disease it is of little value, its therapeutic efficiency increasing in direct ratio with the duration of the disease. It acts by promoting fatty degeneration and absorption of the imperfectly organized exudates. As a rule, iodide of potassium is unnecessary in the early stages, except to relieve nocturnal headaches and periosteal pains generally. In such cases it is most successful if given in -D-grain doses three times a day. In the later stages iodide of potassium, either given alone after a tliorough course of mercury, or in combination with the latter, pro- duces results which are sometimes marvellous. On the other hand, when given in an unscientific manner the iodides lead to grave con sequences. They act on the system as depressants, lowering it to such an extent tliat it is left an easy prey to the further ravages of syphilis. At other times iodism is produced, represented by gastro- intestinal irritation, coryza, pustular and other forms of skin erup- tions, various forms of neuritis, and acute cedema of the larynx. In ordinary doses most patients will exhibit no s3anptoms what- ever from the use of the iodides. A small proportion may suffer from a coppery taste in the mouth, coryza, and perhaps some gastro- intestinal catarrh. A still smaller proj^ortion may be entirely intoler- ant of iodide of potassium, and will suffer from swelling of tlie nrucous meml)ranes, especially of the larynx and phar^mx. Rules for giving iodide of potassium: — 1. The drug ouglit to be given well diluted. 2. It should be given about an hour after meals. 3. It should be given in intermittent courses of increasing doses, never for longer than ten days at a time, after which there should be a week's interval before it is resumed. 4. Excijaients facilitate absorption. Dosage.—In the early stages, if recjuired, the average dose is