24 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY To their anaerobic nature must be attributed the comparative rarity of wound infection with these micro-organisms, considering the wideness of their distribution and the frequency of lesions exposed to direct soil contamination. It would appear that they are only able to develop in the animal body where they are sheltered from oxygen by the presence of dead tissue (e.g. in extensive contused wounds), or by the action of other (aerobic) micro-organisms, which by taking up the oxygen produce conditions suitable for anaerobiosis. The great majority of the bacteria of soil are, however, pure saprophytes. Below the surface layers at a depth of a few yards in the subsoil no bacteria arc to be found. The deeper parts of the soil contain no suitable material for their growth, and the soil itself acts as an efficient filter for bacteria, except where definite cracks permit their carriage downwards by the percolation of water from the surface of the ground. In or upon the surface of the animal body a vast number of bacteria, pathogenetic and otherwise, find the most favourable conditions for their growth in the presence of suitable moisture, temperature, and nourishment. The skin and mucous surfaces form an admirable collecting ground for bacteria, in which they flourish under the protec- tion afforded them by irregularities of the surface, by ducts and glands of different kinds, and by crypts and follicles where they can live and multiply in favourable surroundings, and from which it is extremely difficult or impossible to remove them by any process of cleansing. More than one hundred different varieties of bacteria have been shown to occur upon the skin in man. And in the mouth, the nasal passages, and the intestiire is constantly to be found an abundant flora. Many of these organisms continue to exist on the healthy and unbroken surfaces as harmless sapropliytes, hut may take on pathogenetic action if they gain an entrance to the tissues through some injury. More- over, if transferred to another individual, an organism which was quite harmless to its original host, or had become so by the lapse of time, may develop active pathogenesis (as in so-called " tjqjhoid-carriers "). The different surfaces of the human body have each to some extent their own peculiar flora. Thus, on the skin the staphylococcus albus is invariably present; in the mouth, spirochaetes, streptococci, and streptothricese among others are always found; in the intestines. Bacillus coli, B. lactis aerogenes, and streptococci (S. fcecalis) are normal inhabitants ; and in the healthy vagina B. vaginalis is a charac- teristic organism. But, besides these more or less normal constant residents, numerous pathogenetic forms may occur upon the skin, as, for example, pyogenetic cocci and B. pyocyaneus. In the mouth and nose pyogenetic organisms are common, and the pneumococcus, B. injiuenzcB, B. dipJdhericp, and Micrococcus intracellularis meningitidis may be met with, in addition to the organisms definitely connected