431 ADENOMA similar epithelium-lined spaces, but the two classes of tumour differ essentially in their relations to the surrounding tissues. The gland- like structures of the carcinoma extend to the deeper parts of the intestinal wall, and are found invading the muscular coat, whereas in the adenoma the epithelium-lined spaces are confined to the nuicous membrane in the normal situation of the glands. Adenoma of the breast.—Adenoma, the common, simple tumour of the mammary gland, is of several varieties, the differences arising from modifications of the glandular spaces or connective-tissue stroma. A constant feature is the presence of a perfect capsule sur- rounding the tumour and rendering it capable of removal by enuclea- tion. The breast itself either remains in a perfectly normal state, or, if the tumour is large, is displaced, and may become flattened out over its adjacent surface. In the large majority of cases the tumour lies on the surface or at the margin of the breast, to which it has only very loose connexions, suggesting that it has arisen in a small outlying frag- ment of glandular tissue which has failed to become connected with the general glandular ajDparatus. In rare instances a typical adenoma is embedded in the breast tissue, and occasionally the solid growths projecting into certain glandular cysts of the breast present a similar structure. The perfect encapsulation of an adenoma explains the considerable degree of mobility beneath the skin, and independently of the breast, which is often its most striking clinical feature. Adenomas of the breast are most common in young women between the ages of 20 and 30, and are occasionally multiple. The following varieties deserve separate consideration :— \i 1. Pure adenoma, in which the structure closely resembles that of the normal gland, except that no large ducts are present and the stroma is devoid of fat. 2. Hard fibro-adenoma, in which the stroma is relatively abundant and consists of dense fibrous tissue. 3. Soft fibro-adenoma, in which the stroma is also almndant, but consists of richly cellular connective tissue. 4. Cystic adenoma, in which the glandular spaces become trans- formed into cysts of varying size, and often occupied by intra cystic growths. 1. The pure form of adenoma is very rare. A specimen in University College Hospital Museum was removed by Quain from a woman aged 26, and weighed 4 lb. In section the tumour closely resembles the pancreas in its naked-eye apjDearance, and the micro- scopic structure is like that of the normal breast, except that no large ducts are present and the fibrous stroma is free from fat. 2. The hard fibro-adenoma, on the other hand, is very common. To the naked eye the tumour usually presents the appearance of a