674 GENERAL ANESTHESIA be made to press tlie chloroform. If this period is prolonged, use ether untU it is passed, as in the administration of C.E. (p. 655). This is especially to be recommended in the case of robust or alco- holic subjects. 3. That the mask should not be permitted to touch the face, and that in the course of a long operation the amomit of chloroform used should be reduced till only a very small portion of the mask is kept moist. The anaesthetist must aim at offering a uniformly weak vapour, not at giving now a considerable amount of chloroform and now none at all. Consequently he should be careful repeatedly to add very small amounts, not to pour on a drachm or two and then wait some minutes before re-moistening the mask. The use of some of the regulating inhalers, which have been invented in order to overcome the difficulty of ensuring by the above simple method a constant and highly diluted vapour, must now be briefly described. These inhalers are for the most part made upon one of two different principles, which are known as the 'plenum and the vacutm. In the plenum class of inhaler a mixture of chloroform vapour and air ,of definite proportions is pumped on to a face-piece for inhalation by the patient (Waller, Alcock, Roth-Drager, Dubois, etc.) ; whilst in the vacuum type the patient's respirations draw air over or through chloroform (Vernon-Harcourt, Levy, etc.). Thus, in the former class the manner in which respiration is conducted is entirely independent of and makes no difference to the vapour supplied, this depending simply on the mechanical means. In the latter class, however, this is not the case, the patient drawing air through the apparatus—that is, over the chloroform—by means of the respiratory muscles. This process lends itself to the construction of a small and compact instrument. It has, however, the disadvantage that it places some obstruction in the way of free respiration, and that the percentage of chloroform is affected by the vigour or feebleness of the respiration. Junker's inhaler (Fig. 188) differs from other plenum apparatus in that there is no record on the instrument of the chloroform percentage offered for inhalation. It is not possible to know with this instrument the exact strength of the vapour that is being delivered; and if the compressions of the ball-pump do not exactly coincide with inspiration, or if they are not kept at moderate strength, it is possible to deliver a vapour of undesirably high percentage. Nevertheless, its use in un- skilled hands is probably less dangerous than that of the drop-bottle. Por cases in which chloroform has to be delivered through a tube in the mouth or a catheter in the nose, as in long tongue and laryngeal cases, this instrument is invaluable. In such cases anaesthesia is first induced