PROOF OF CURE OF GONORRHCEA 849 to continue the treatment or not, but whether he is entirely free from infection, and therefore in a fit state for marriage. For the confident determination of tlie important question whether a supposed cure is actual or not, and whether the patient may marry without fear of infecting his wife, a most careful and systematic examination of the patient is necessary ; no value whatever must be placed on his assertion, however confidently made, that all discharge has completely ceased. So long as the gonococcus is present in the urethral secretion or in the mucous membrane there can be no question as to the patient's infectivity and his need for further treatment. At the same time it must be noted that the detection of the gonococcus in the later stages of urethritis is far from easy, and that it demands considerable experience and patience ; for in this stage the micro- organism is present in very spare numbers, and is no longer found in its characteristic situation within the body of the leucocyte, as in the acute stage. Confusion as to the identity of the organism is much more likely to occur in such circumstances than in the earlier stages of the attack, and all the resources of bacteriology may have to be invoked to estabhsh the diagnosis. But, further, it frequently happens that the organism is absent from the secretion for days, and even weeks, together, and only reappears when the uretlira is unusually stimulated from any cause, as sexual excitement or indulgence in alcohol. In the intervals the micro-organisms may be lying -perdu in some of the numerous crypts and follicles with which the urethra abounds. Hence, when attempting to decide whether the gonococcus is still present or not, it is necessary not only repeatedly to examine the secretion at intervals, but also to take such steps (for example, the injection of nitrate of silver solution or the passage of a large bougie) as will induce a certain stimulation of the tract, and to pay special attention to the contents of the seminal vesicles and of the prostatic and urethral glands. Nor is it wise to rely solely on the negative evidence of the bacterio- logical examination, no matter how thoroughly it may have been made. Due consideration must also be given to other factors, such as the character of the urinary threads and the appearance of the mucous membrane, as shown by the urethroscope. As long as the threads are largely composed of pus cells, one is justified in suspecting that the gonococcus still lurks somewhere in the urethra. And before the surgeon can confidently assert that the patient is no longer infective, not only must the gonococcus be absent from the secretion, but also the mucous membrane must have regained its normal bright glistening appearance ; its longitudinal folds must be clearly defined, and it must be free from all inflammatory areas. 3 C