IMMUNITY 2/ The chemical action of the bacteria is by far the most im- portant and is due to the toxin; and other poisonous bodies set free by the activity of the micro-organisms. These substances have ah'eady been described (under Metabolic Products, j). 17), and their effects are now to be considered briefly. They may be sub- divided into local and general actions. The local effects are those of local irritation of varying degree, leading to more or less evident inflammatory reaction. This may be very slight indeed, as in some cases of tetanus infection, or it may be violent and extensive in char- acter, and accompanied by marked destruction and degeneration of tissue, resulting in the formation of large centres of necrosis and suppuration. The more general eft'ects are those which depend upon the special action of the bacterial toxin circulating in the blood, and include tissue degenerations (especially cloudy swelling), disorder of meta- bolism, and pyrexia. In some particular infections the specific toxins seem also to possess a selective affinity for particular tissues and pro- duce in them their most characteristic eft'ects. This may be seen, for example, in tlie action of tetanus toxin on the central nervous system, or in that of the diphtheria toxin on peripheral nerves. In addition to the direct injurious action exerted on the tissues by invading micro-organisms, and their toxic products, a numlser of extremely important phenomena occur in the course of an infection which are the expression of the reaction of the organism against the infective agents and their toxins. They are conveniently grouped together under the heading of immimity. 4. IMMUNITY If a number of individuals be exposed to the same infection, it is usually to be observed that only a certain proportion of them develop the actual disease, others may suffer from some tem^^orary indisposition, while the remainder exhibit no symptoms at all. These facts present a striking illustration of the phenomenon of resistance to infection whicii is dependent either on a natural or on a previously acquired condition of immunity to the particular disease concerned. Such immunity may be regarded as antibacterial in character, or antitoxic, according as it is directed chiefly against the bacteria themselves or more especially against their toxic products. To the former class belongs immunity again,st the causal agents of enteric fever, cholera, bubonic plague, and anthrax, for example ; to the latter, that against the toxins of diphtheria and tetanus. The problems of resistance and reaction to infection may con- veniently be dealt with under the headings of natural and acquired immunity.