412 TUMOURS blance whicli sucli a condition may bear to a localized tuberculosis. A case of this nature, strikingly similar to one of those recorded by Eve, has recently come under our observation. The tumour formed a some- what ill-defined mass in connexion with the upper and outer part of the left knee-joint. In the skin over it was a scar, marking the site of an operation performed several years previously, the nature of which was not known. In view of the position of the swelling and its soft consistence, it was regarded as a localized tuberculous deposit in the synovial membrane, until an exploratory incision revealed the presence of a typical spongy angiomatous growth which involved the synovial membrane and the adjacent part of the vastus externus muscle. Naevo-lipoma.—It has already been pointed out that fat is usually present in the tissue between the vessels of an angioma, and occasionally this may be present in such amount that the tumour partakes of the characters of a lipoma rather than an angioma. Indeed, a fatty tumour in a child often proves on examination to be a nsevo- lipoma. The same combination is also met with in a diffuse form in certain cases of congenital enlargement of a limb. In some cases of this nature the enlargement is hmited to the soft parts and is caused by a diffuse fatty and vascular growth. Diagnosis of angiomas.—The nature of a cutaneous angioma is usually obvious, and tlie diagnosis is rarely difficult in the case of a subcutaneous angioma in a young child. It may, indeed, be laid down as a useful rule that in discussing the nature of an obscure tumour in a child, the possibility that it is an angioma is generally deserving of consideration. On the other hand, an angioma first observed in adult life, and situated in some unusual situation, may present no features by which its true nature can with any certainty be deter- mined. Mention must be made of the possibility of mistaking a nsevus of the scalp situated over one of the fontanelles, or at the root of the nose, for a meningocele; whilst the not uncommon presence of a capillary nsevus in the skin over a meningocele may lead to the more serious mistake of regarding the subcutaneous tumour as a nsevus also. Treatment.—In a young child a small cutaneous nsevus which is not increasing may be left untreated in the hope that it will gradu- ally fade. With the slightest sign of increase, especially on the face, treatment should at once be adopted. In situations where a linear scar is of no importance, excision is the best treatment, but in conspicuous situations the nsevus may best be treated by multiple j^unctures with a very fine galvano-cautery, the margin being especially