760 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 3. Calomel is not much used internally, owing to its liability to cause diarrhoea and stomatitis. It is a constituent of Plummer's pill. 4. Tannate of mercury is not a definite compound, and, in spite of the advantages claimed for it, is not to be recommended. 5. Biniodide of mercury is very toxic, but is sometimes used in conjunction with potassium iodide. 6. Salicylate of mercury. Remarks on the internal method—After many years' experience of the internal use of most of the preparations above de- scribed, I have largely abandoned the ingestive in favour of one of the external methods of application. I was influenced by the fact that gastro-intestinal disturbances after a month or six weeks were apt to interfere with the nutrition of the patient and with the further continuous treatment of the disease ; also that I felt no certainty of persistence of the patient in regular treatment, especially after the urgent symptoms had disappeared. Moreover, I believe that ia some cases the system becomes inured to mercury administered by the internal method, so that the drug apparently loses its physio- logical effects ; while in other cases it is rejected unabsorbed. III. THE INTRAMUSCULAR METHOD This method consists of the injection of mercurial preparations deep into the muscles, with a view to their absorption into the cir- culatory system. First introduced by Scarenzio of Pavia in 1864, it was abandoned on account of certain accidents, such as abscesses. The history of this method may be divided into three periods—(1) that of Scarenzio, (2) that of Smirnoff, and (3) that of Balzer. Scarenzio gave subcutaneous injections of yellow oxide of mercury, but soon replaced this by calomel. As an excipient, he first used glycerine ; but afterwards, on account of its irritating properties, he substituted for it gum-water. Owing to abscess-formation, the method had many opponents, and was gradually dropped within a few years, but was reintroduced in 1882 by Smirnoff, who showed that with antiseptic precautions abscesses could be prevented, and succeeded in reviving the subcutaneous method for a time ; but, although abscesses were much rarer, they were still frequent enough to bring discredit again on the method. In 1888, Balzer showed the abscess formation to be partly due to the subcutaneous position, and partly to the unsuitability of the vehicles in use. He advocated deep intramuscular injection and the substitution of liquid paraffin as the vehicle, in place of gum- water, glycerine, and olive oil. His suggestions led to the wide adop- tion of the intramuscular method on the Continent, although it has