836 COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRHCEA by the application of warmth and then, as soon as fluctuation can be detected, the pus evacuated by a small incision, and half a drachm to a drachm of a 1 per cent, solution of nitrate of silver injected. The injection must be repeated daily for two or three days, and the small incision kept open by a minute iodoform gauze drain and the apphcation of a wet boric-acid dressing. In this way it is often possible to effect a cure of the adenitis with a minimum of disturbance and loss of time. Failing that, the abscess must be opened and treated on general surgical lines. By far the best treatment for a phagedsenic condition is the use of continuous warm baths and the cautious application of the Paquelin cautery. The debilitated constitution must be supported by nutritious liquid food. When gangrene is threatened, every effort must be made to overcome the hindrance to the circulation. A tight phimosis or paraphimosis must be operated upon and any necrotic edges removed. COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRHCEA BALANITIS Balanitis is the term applied to an inflammation of the mucous membrane covering the glans penis and lining the prepuce. It may be caused by almost any source of irritation to the end of the penis, but much the commonest is the retention and decomposition of the smegma secretion behind a tight foreskin, either alone or in association with other causes of irritation, such as a soft sore, a true chancre, epithelioma, herpes, or eczema. In gonorrhoea its occurrence is to be attributed to the additional irritation produced by the urethral discharge retained and decomposing behind a long prepuce ; the gonococcus seldom directly causes the balanitis. Symptoms.—The inflammation of the glans produces an itching and soreness of the end of the penis, which becomes red, swollen, and cedematoiis, whilst from beneath the foreskin a free and intensely fetid discharge exudes. If the prepuce be drawn back, the mucous membrane lining it and covering the glans will be found to be inflamed and often ulcerated in places. The inflammation may become so intense as to cause gangrene of the tissues. This is generally limited to the prepuce, but may involve a considerable portion of the integument of the penis. Pliimosis is always present in some degree ; whilst in a repeatedly recurrent case it is well marked owing to the thickening and contrac- tion of the preputial tissues. Forcible retraction of such a foreskin 'Over the glans is likely to result in paraphimosis. The constricted ■orifice of the prepuce tightly encircles the glans, and obstructs the ■leturn of the blood by the veins. This causes the end of the penis