X-RAY EXAMINATION 620 radiogram produced. Even with the most accurate knowledge of anatomy, it is difficult to interpret X-ray shadows, for a radiogram is onhj a shadow, and the outline of the part thus demonstrated is liable to great variation. For example, in the case of injury to bone, it is always possible to secure strong and accurate X-ray shadows of the part, and no error ought to be made in diagnosis, yet errors of this kind are not uncommonly met with. To avoid such mistakes, it is imperative that the quaUty of the radiogram secured should be the best possible. For instance, in the examination of the ankle-joint and the bones of the foot, Plate 36, Fig. 1, is a radiogram which is flat, indistinct, altogether wanting in detail, whereas Fig. 2 is a radiogram of good quality of the same ankle-joint and foot. The interjjretation of the latter is easy, while that of the former would be almost impossible and certainly inaccurate. The usual practice in securing radiograms is to place the subject in a position considered likely to give the best results, and then roughly, almost at random, to place the tube in some unknown relation to the part of the body under examination. The resulting shadow is often of no value because it is wanting in detail and depth, as in Plate 36, Fig. 1. One method of avoiding tliis fault is to produce stereo- scopic views of the part examined. Two views having been secured in stereoscopic register, and placed in a stereoscope, the part can be viewed in relief. Theoretically, then, by this means one is able to view the parts of the body opaque to the X-rays as they would appear to the naked eye. In practice, however, this method, though it may prove of value in exceptional circumstances, is laborious. Moreover, though the parts may be made to appear in relief, they are not really as one would see them with the naked eye, but are still X-ray shadows. A more practical method is to ensure that in all cases radiograms of any part of the body be absolutely comparable with one another by taking care to maintain the same relationsliip between the X-ray tube and the part under examination. For example, in maldng an examination of the ankle-joint the limb is placed in a prescribed position, and the anode of the X-ray tube—that is, the actual source of the X-rays—is brought into accurate relationship to the tip of the internal malleolus by a simple mechanical contrivance, the details of which need not be dealt with here. This relationship between the tube and the ankle can always be reproduced, and therefore the shadow of a normal ankle-joint can always be obtained under the same conditions for comparison with the radiogram of the suspected ankle. In this way not only is the surgeon able to select the view of the part which will have the depth and detail necessary for proper inter- pretation, but, the shadow being familiar, he can more easily recognize