TUMOURS 526 the typical characters of the carcinomatous ulcer already described (p. 519). A section through a squanious-celled carcinoma usually presents an opaque white colour and a coarsely granular surface, and to the naked eye its outline is sharply defined, and the contrast between the nearly white tumour and the surrounding tissues is often very striking. In all forms of carcinoma of the skin, except rodent ulcer, invasion of the lymphatic glands usually occurs early, but apart from this the glands are often enlarged as the result of lymphadenitis due to infec- tion from an ulcerated growth. Some of the most extensive cases of cutaneous carcinoma are those in which the disease commences in burn scars on the limbs. In such cases the new growth usually begins at the margin of the scar, and often quickly involves a considerable area, assuming usually the warty rather than the ulcerating form. An interesting example of this form of the disease is the kangri cancer met with in Kashmir, caused by the basket of burning charcoal which the inhabitants of the cold hilly districts carry beneath their clothing. Neve, of the Kashmir Mission Hospital, found that among 1,189 squamous car- cinomas removed during a period of twenty-five years, no less than 848 were examples of kangri cancer. The tumours usually occur on those parts, the abdominal wall and inner aspects of the thighs, with which the kangri comes into contact, and the skin in which the disease arises usually shows marked evidences of the prolonged effects of heat in the presence of pigmentation, scarring, warty formations, or chronic eczema. The most striking examples of the origin of cutaneous carcinoma in an ulcer are those in which it supervenes upon a chronic ulcer of the lower part of the leg. Here, as in scars, the edge of the ulcer is usually the starting-point of the growth, and in some cases the change may be so gradual that the patient may disregard it until the disease has extended deeply enough into the limb to occasion spontaneous fracture. In two instances of this kind which have come under our notice, the growth supervened upon an ulcer of the leg of thirty years' duration. A carcinoma of the skin has occasionally been known to develop at the orifice of a sinus, such as may be due to chronic bone disease. In a specimen in the Museum of University College Hospital, an irregularly papillary carcinoma of the skin surrounds a sinus leading into an abscess cavity in the upper extremity of the tibia. There is no history to the specimen, but the discovery of a small fragment of lead in the wall of the cavity in the tibia suggests that the disease of the bone resulted from a bullet wound, and that the carcinoma arose at the orifice of a sinus which opened in the skin.