ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBED ABSCESS 185 secondary abscesses which form, chiefly in the lungs, and which are a distinctive feature of this disease. Occasionally it is associated with malignant endocarditis, as the result of detachment of infective emboli. Clinically, the fever in this condition may or may not be initiated by traumatic fever, and the normal temperature may even have been reached and maintained for about eight days, when suddenly the patient suffers from a rigor, which may be prolonged for about half an hour. The rigor is followed by a rise of temperature, to 104° F., which falls in an hour or so to normal, or even below normal ; the fall of temperature is accompanied by profuse perspiration and sensation of warmth, after which the patient will feel well and comfortable again. In severe cases the patient soon experiences another rigor ; this may be repeated many times in twenty-four hours ; or, in milder cases, the rigors recur at longer intervals, say, once a week or a fortnight. The tongue is dry, and red or brown, and the breath has a curious sweet odour that has been compared to that of hay. The skin is hot, of a dull, pale colour, and may show rashes of an erythematous or petechial character, or sometimes tender hypertemic areas that are probably the manifestation of lodgment of emboli that have not progressed to definite abscess-formation. The rigors are followed in from three to five days by the appearance of secondary abscesses, which sometimes are characterized by a rapid, insidious, and com- paratively painless development. In the typical acute cases, patients usually die in about fourteen days, having suffered constantly from severe rigors. The condition is associated with wedge-shaped ha-mor- rhagic infarcts in the lungs, Avhich soon become purulent ; but other parts, such as pleura^, joints, brain, liver, spleen, kidneys, heart muscle, pericardium, and endocardium, may be affected later. In pya-mia arising from a focus in the portal system, the liver is the primary site of lodgment of the emboli. Clironic pycemia is a condition in which there are no infective thrombi and no embolic foci of suppuration such as are typical of true pya?mia ; but a secondary collection of jjus may occur in any part of the body, notably in the subcutaneous and intermuscular tissues, and is probably due to those micro-organisms which are occasion- ally carried aliout by the blood during infective processes finding a suitable nidus. The fever and toxic symptoms are of a milder character and the prognosis is more favourable than in true pyaemia, provided the abscesses are in accessible positions, and the general strength of the patient is fair. The temperature of patients suffering from chronic py;cmia may be exceedingly variable. Degenerations.—Suppuration may give rise to cloudy swelling, and to fatty, hyaline, and amyloid degererations.