vacginp: treatment 99 tubercle bacillus from the cultures, drying the mass in vacuo, and then titrating in water in a mortar and emulsifying the powder in a 50 per cent, aqueous solution of glycerine. After allowing the heavy particles to deposit, the supernatant opalescent fluid is pipetted off and standard- ized by dilution to contain the equivalent of .5 mg. of dried tubercle bacilli jjer cubic centimetre. Another tubercle vaccine, known as Koch's New Tuberculin (or T.R.), is prepared by first washing the dried and powdered tubercle bacilli with distilled water and then centrifugalizing. The supernatant opalescent fluid is removed, and the residue, now freed from soluble toxins, dried, and the process of extracting by triturating with 20 per cent, glycerine solution (in the proportion of 10 mg. of dried powder to 1 c.c. of glycerine solution) is then repeated several times, the fluid used each time being preserved and the whole finally mixed together. The dosage of tubercle vaccines is usually calculated in fractions of 1 mg. of tlie dried tubercle bacilli. Active immunization by vaccines.—The hypotliesis upon which vaccine treatment is based assumes that certain substances—- opsonins—exist in the blood serum, wliich have the power of so sensi- tizing bacteria that gain entrance to tlie tissues as to render them readily ingested and destroyed by the phagocytes, and it is to tlie presence of these substances that the natural resistance of the individual is due. If the number of bacteria invading the tissues is small and the available amount of opsonin adequate, no infection—iir the clinical sense of the term—results. If, however, the available opsonin is inadequate to sensitize all the bacteria, and some escape destruction by the phagocytes, infection takes place. The stimulus provided by the action of the surviving bacteria should provoke tlie formation of specific opsonin adequate in amount to ensure the destruction of the bacteria, and so terminate the infection ; failure in this direction is followed by the rapid multiplication of the germs, and the resulting train of clinical symptoms, which jarovide the opportunity and necessity for vaccine treatment. In all probability this hypothesis takes cogniz- ance of one only of many factors concerned, and that perhaps a quite insignificant one, but, because of the ease with which this particular factor can be identified and observed throughout the course of an infection, the hypothesis is a practical and convenient one to work with, as will be seen if we trace the effect of an injection of vaccine upon the opsonin content of the jsatient's serum. The immediate result of the introduction of a dose of vaccine into the tissues of a patient is a fall in the amount of opsonin present in the serum, owing presumably to the linking-up of some of the avail- able opsonin to the bodies of the bacteria introduced. This is termed the negative phase," and occupies a period lasting from a few hours to a week or ten days, or in exceptional cases a fortnight or more.