OBSERVATIONS WITH A BISMUTH MEAL 623 these movements were seen distinctly on tlie fluorescent screen as depressions in the edge of the shadows, travelUng slowly and with increasing strength to the pylorus. The functional division of the stomach into a cardiac part acting mainly as a reservoir in which salivary digestion can continue for a considerable period, and a pyloric part concerned in the thorough mixing of the food with the gastric juice and the regulation of its passage into the duodenum, has also a definite anatomical basis. The exact value of this method of investigation of pathological conditions of the gastro-intestinal tract has not yet been determined ; with a view of determining it, Schmieden and Hartel have inves- tigated 100 cases of stomach disease. The cases studied consisted chiefly of simple or maUgnant pyloric obstruction, but there were also cases of cancer in other parts of the stomach. No very high claims for the method could be established, and it was admitted that there were many difficulties. Owing to the difficulty of correct inter- pretation of the signs, it must therefore be used merely as an aid to ordinary physical examination. Hertz on eight occasions made skiagraphic observations at short intervals on normal individuals who had taken an ordinary meal to which one or two ounces of bismuth carbonate had been added, in order to determine how soon the first traces of the stomach-contents reached the csecum. He found that the shadow of the caecum began to appear between three and a half and five hours after the food had been taken ; numerous other observations less accurately carried out were all in accord with these results. Thus, the shadow of the caecum is always obvious before that of the stomach has disappeared. Presuming, as we are probably justified in doing, that some of its contents begin to leave the stomach within half an hour from the beginning of the meal, it is clear that the average rate at which the con- tents of the small intestines travel is 22^ feet in four hours, or 5 feet 7 J inches per hour, about 1 inch per minute. The rate of passage is somewhat slower through the descending colon than through the small intestine ; it is also lessened during sleep. When the meal has left the stomach its position and behaviour cannot be observed, because in the small intestine the food is too diffused to be opaque to the rays ; while in the caecum and large intestine the food becomes concentrated and is again observable. Any obstruction or undue delay, however, even in the small intestine, causes a concentration of the bismuth food above tlie obstruction, and therefore an opacity. In the large intestine its passage should take a definite time, but it seems to be abundantly clear that even great delay must not be supposed to be the result of constriction of the lumen of the bowel. Another method of investigation of the abdomen has been made