370 TUMOURS Fibroma of nerves.—Much confusion has arisen from the use of the nauae " neuroma " for a turnour on a nerve, of whatever structure, and from not reserving the name for a tumour composed of newly formed nerve tissue. The confusion is best avoided by naming a tumour of a nerve, as elsewhere, according to its structure. Fibrous new growths of nerves occur in two distinct forms : (1) as single or isolated fibrous tumours affecting nerves otherwise normal; and (2) as diffuse fibrous overgrowths included under the general name of diffuse neuro-fibromatosis; Asimple fibroma of a nerve is usually of the hard variety, and may occur on one of the larger nerve trunks or on one of the terminal ramifications. When situated on a nerve trunk superficially placed, the connexion of the tumour with the nerve trunk may be recognized by its position and the fact that the tumour, although movable in a direction at right angles to that of the nerve, is not movable in the opposite direction. The tumour is usually painless, and, in the majority of cases, unaccompanied by any alteration in the function of the nerve on which it grows. It may project from one surface of the nerve trunk, or the nerve fibres may be spread out on the surface of the tumour so as completely to surround it. When affecting one of the small cutaneous nerves a small fibroma may be exquisitely painful and tender, and for this reason is often spoken of as the painful subcutaneous tuhercle, a name suggested by W. Wood in 1829. This form of fibroma is more common in women than in men, and is usually met with in one of the extremities, more frequently the lower. The condition to which the name diffuse neuro-fibromatosis is applied is one of extreme interest, and manifests itself in new formations which, in their clinical aspects, present at first very widely different features. The occasional occurrence of r ultiple fibrous tumours on the cranial and spinal and sympathetic nerves has long been recognized, and in 1882 von Recklinghausen first pointed out that the soft fibrous tumours of the skin known as molluscum fibrosum were of a similar nature, and recorded two cases in both of which multijsle tumours of this nature were associated with multiple tumours on nerves, whilst in one case patches of pigmentation were also present in the skin. The remarkable new growth known as the plexiform neuroma is another manifestation of the same pathological condition, as well as the form of localized hypertrophy of the skin and subcutaneous tissue for which Virchow suggested the name elephantiasis neuromatosa. The whole subject is fully dealt with in a masterly manner in a monograph by Alexis Thomson, and to this we are indebted for much of the following description. The essential change in neuro-fibromatosis is a diffuse overgrowth of the connective tissue