SUPPURATION wise to inject the vaccines of staphylococcus and streptococcus before operation. It must be remembered that there is a negative phase after the injection of each vaccine ; during this the patient is more susceptible to the effects of those micro-organisms against which protection has been attempted. Among the practical difficulties which arise in connexion with this matter is the fact that there are so many micro-organisms against which a surgeon would like to protect his patient before operation. Each vaccine will protect the patient against its own micro-organism only, each has a negative phase, and in many cases the artificial immunity induced is of very short duration. However, it would be the duty of every surgeon to disregard these difficulties, and adopt the procedure in all cases if there were strong practical reasons for doing so. But, as a matter of fact, the observance of correct antiseptic principles and methods is able, in most cases, to overcome all the septic complications which are likely to arise in ordinary practice. I adopted the preliminary preparation by vaccine treatment in tongue, mouth, and rectal operations ; in these cases the vaccines of the staphylococcus, streptococcus, and colon bacillus were administered ; but I cannot say that the cases did better than those in which only antiseptic measures were used. There can be no doubt that in some cases it would be well to prepare the patient by the administration of vaccines, in the hope of diminish- ing the risk of the evil effects which miglit result from dissemination of micro-organisms—cases, for instance, of B. mallei and B. tuberculosis. Whether a patient suffering from an extensive lacerated injury should be subjected to the vaccine treatment to render him immune to possible infection is a question to be considered, but in the vast majority of cases the surgeon will secure perfect results by adopting ordinary antiseptic precautions. ii. Palliative.—The importance of rest cannot be exaggerated in all stages of infective processes. This can be effected by the aid of splints, etc. In addition to resting the part, two different methods of paUiative treatment have to be considered—hot fomentations and Bier's hypersemic treatment. Hot fomentations.—The parts should be shaved, and the skin of the diseased and neighbouring areas purified. The fomentation cloth should be boric lint or cyanide gauze ; after being wrung out of a boiling solution of perchloride of mercury (1-8,000), and laid on the prepared parts, it should be covered with sterilized macintosh so that the cover overlaps the hot cloth for three-quarters of an inch all the way round its edge ; this, again, should be covered with antiseptic wool, such as saHcylic or double cyanide wool, and gently bandaged ; where possible a many-tailed bandage should be used, as it saves imnecessary manipulation of a very painful part.