INFLAMMATION 3. The mononucleated cells.—This group includes a number of cells wliicli have a different origin, and possibly also a dif- ferent function. Maximow has classed these under the term " poly- blasts," and he states that they are derived mainly from the lympho- cytes which have emigrated from the blood-vessels, though the wandering cells pre-existing in the connective tissue, and pre-existing clasmatocytes and clasmatocyte-like adventitial cells—e.g. perivascular lymphatic tissue, endothelial cells, cells of serous membranes, etc.—share in their production. This group includes the lyinphocytes, the masi cells, the plasma cells, the so-called hyaline leucocytes, and other forms of mononucleated cells. (1) The lymphocytes.—These have been divided into the small and the large forms, and are specially characterized by a relatively large darkly staining nucleus. The cytoplasm in the small variety is very scanty, but in the larger it is more abundant. In both it is granular, the granules being basophile and especially marked near the periphery. In acute inflammatory exudates these cells' are not usually numerous, but in more chronic inflammatory conditions they, or cells which cannot be difterentiated from the htemal lymphocytes, are often very numerous and are sometimes collected in the form of irregularly shaped masses. Exudates rich in these cells, and tissues infiltrated by them, are seen especially in infection with B. tuberculosis (Plate 14), and in syphilis, but also are common in inflammatory conditions which have lasted for several days (Plate 15), and in which the primary state was a polymorphonuclear leucocytosis. Thus, in my opinion, an exudate rich in lymphocytes, though it may suggest tuberculosis, is not by any means diagnostic of that condi- tion. Collections of these lymphocytes or lymphocyte-like cells are found in the tissues where the bacterial poisons or other toxins have been acting for a prolongad period (Plate 15). They are well seen in the kidney in the less acute forms of nephritis, and in the kidney and other organs in prolonged cases of infectious diseases—e.g. scarlet fever. Whether all these cells migrate from the vessels is a matter of very great doubt, and, though migration must be admitted, I strongly hold with Adanii that the collections of lymphocyte-like cells seen in the tissues and exudates are derived in the main from the prolifera- tion of cells of a lymphoid type which are present to a greater or less extent in various situations, but especially in the perivascular tissues. (2) Mast cells.—These cells are easily distinguished by the presence in them of irregularly scattered basophile granules, which vary considerably in size. In my experience these cells do not take any part in the inflammatory process, but it is possible that they may be degenerated forms of other cells.