SARCOMA OF LONG BONES 503 and by the central or periosteal origin of the growth than by differences in microscopic structure. Thus, although in general terms round- celled sarcoma is more malignant than spindle-celled, this statement can hardly be applied to sarcoma of the long bones, because periosteal tumours, although usually composed of spindle cells, are so intensely malignant. The presence of a marked tendency to ossification or chondrification might also on general grounds be exj^ected to diminish the mabgnancy of a bone sarcoma, but most surgeons will agree with Butlin that this is not so. An extensively ossified or chondrified spindle-celled sarcoma of the periosteum appears to pursue a course as malignant as that of a similar tumour in which no such specialized tissue is present. In these cases also, as already pointed out, it may be found that the metastases in the lungs show a corresjionding mixed structure. In connexion with the symptoms produced by a sarcoma of bone, it may be said that in the early stages they are in no way characteristic. After a fixed pain in the part, lasting probably several weeks or a few months, often referred to the neighbouring joint and wrongly attributed to rheumatism, a swelling is noticed, which may also closely simulate an enlarged joint. The symptoms, as regards both pain and swelling, are usually continuously progressive, and thus are often in striking contrast with those due to inflammatory conditions in which more or less marked intermissions are common. The amomit of interference with the movements of the neighbouring joint is usually less in the case of a bone tumour than a bone inflammation. It occasionally happens that spontaneous fracture results from a sarcoma of bone before the other symptoms are at all pronounced. Thus, in the case of a man aged 35, who was under the care of Chris- topher Heath, sHght pain and swelHng had been noticed in the right arm for five months, when the limb suddenly fell helpless whilst being raised to box a boy's ears, spontaneous fracture having occurred at the seat of a periosteal spindle-celled sarcoma of the humerus. Enough has been said to show that the early diagnosis of a sarcoma of one of the long bones may be attended with great difficulty. 1. At the risk of re23etition, it may be pointed out that the dif- ferentiation from various inflammatory conditions may be particularly difficult, especially from such conditions as syplulitic periostitis and osteitis, tuberculous osteitis, and central chronic abscess. In this connexion X-ray examination may prove of great value. The most striking features of the radiograms obtained in the chief conditions which may simulate a sarcoma of bone may be stated as follows : In a localized enlargement due to chronic periostitis with superficial osseous deposit the radiogram is characterized by the