740 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS they perforate, forming an ulcer. When they have healed, a depressed pigmented cicatrix remains. Treatment of gummatous syphilides.—Specific treatment is, of course, absolutely necessary, but much can be done locally for ulceration. Dressings of iodoform and mercurial ointments (red and yellow oxide or white precipitate) are very good; also, perhydrol (Merck) in a concentrated solution applied two or three times a day, or calomel applied in powder or by fumigation. It is in these gummatous syphilides that iodide of potassium is specially useful, lodipin, given by intramuscular or subcutaneous injection, is of much benefit. The alimentary system.—Tertiary lesions of the lips are not common, but they are important, owing to their liability to con- fusion with cancer, and vice versa. They may appear as a tuberculate formation or as a gumma. The former is very apt to relapse. In shape it is usually circinate and may extend so as to involve most of the lip. It may appear as diffuse infiltration, the mucous mem- brane of the lip becoming swollen and red. In other cases this lesion assumes the character of a hard, circumscribed gumma in the sub- stance of the lip. This may be taken for cancer, but in the gumma the lymphatic glands are not enlarged. The skin over this gumma may ulcerate, and then it may be mistaken for a chancre. Superficial glossitis sometimes arises in habitual smokers. On examination, the tongue is found to be swollen, bright red, and indented at its edges with marks of the teeth. The dorsal surface is ■devoid of fur and the papillae may have disappeared over a large surface. The tongue itself is freely movable and can be protruded to its normal extent. Its surface is moist, and is tender and painful. There is little induration. In other cases the lesion consists of patches of round or oval shape and deep-red colour. They are slightly raised and indurated, and when healed leave milk-white patches. They run a very chronic course, and are painless through- out. Sometimes they soften and give rise to ulcers, fissures, or erosions. Sclerosing glossitis is characterized by swelling, most marked ■on the dorsal surface of the tongue, the central part being most frequently aft'ected. Disappearance of the papillae gives a smooth appearance to the mucous membrane covering the affected parts. Fissures and ulcers are produced, the former radiating outwards from the central raphe. The course of this lesion also is very chronic. The lymphatic glands seldom enlarge. Gummatous glossitis.—This occurs about four to six years after infection, and the gummata may be either superficial or deep ; the former are usually situated on the dorsum of the tongue. They