TUMOURS 502 enable the true nature of the tumour to be determined (p. 490). If an ossifying sarcoma is macerated, it is often found that the bone in the tumour presents the form of long, closely packed spicules radiating from the surface of the bone. The occasional development of a sarcoma in a bone at the site of a previous fracture may be mentioned as a rare occurrence. In this connexion it is obviously very important not to confuse the sequence of events, for, as we have seen, fracture resulting from a sarcoma is not uncommon. Cases in which such a mistake may safely be excluded are recorded, as, for instance, that described by Shattock, in which a chondrifying sarcoma of the humerus first showed itself about twelve Aveeks after a traumatic fracture, which had repaired normally. Amputation was performed at the shoulder-joint, and death occurred about two years later with symptoms of recurrence in the chest. Reference may also be made to other pathological conditions following fractures, which may be mistaken for a malignant growth. Among these are, first, cases in which from various causes an exaggerated formation of callus occurs ; secondly, diffuse osteoma as recorded by Battle and Shattock ; and, lastly, a condition illustrated by a remark- able case brought by Bilton Pollard before the Pathological Society, in which, following an injury to a child's leg, not certainly a fracture, there was an enlargement of the tibia and fibula which was treated by amputation. In this case the tumours, which were regarded clinically as sarcomas, were after removal considered to be due to simple hyper- trophy of callus, but more recent examination of the specimen by Shattock seems to make it probable that the spongy, bony tumours were inflammatory, and examples of the rare condition for which the name " non-calcifying plastic osteitis " has been suggested. It will thus be seen that much consideration is necessary before deciding that a tumour of a bone following a fracture is sarcomatous and requires amputation. Among the long bones of the limbs the tibia, femur and humerus are the most liable to sarcoma, probably in the order given, and in these bones the upper ends of the tibia and humerus and the lower end of the femur are the favourite sites. The radius and fibula are rarely, and the ulna very rarely, affected. With regard to glandular invasion, it may be said that it is often absent, unless, as in the case of the upper part of the femur or humerus, the disease has extended from' the bone to the neighbouring soft parts of the groin or axilla. Round-celled sarcomas are probably more prone to invade the glands than spindle-celled. The extreme malignancy of bone sarcoma is manifested chiefly by the tendency of the disease to cause metastases, especially in the lungs, and the relative malignancy in different cases seems to be determined rather by the particular bone which is affected