VESICAL AND PROSTATIC CALCULI 629 tuberculosis rather than calculus. Plate -11, Fig. -3, is a radio- gram of a boy suffering from attacks of renal colic associated with pus in the urine. In view of the evidence of enlargement of the outline of the kidney, without any opacity that might correspond to a stone, a diagnosis of tuberculous kidney was made, which was confirmed by autopsy. The size of the outline of the kidney is also important in cases of renal calculus where there is a prospect of nephrectomy. In the radiogram of such a case (Plate 38, Fig. 1) in which a large oxalate calculus is to be seen in the cortex of the left kidney, compensatory enlargement of the right kidney is clearly discernible. Furthermore, the position and size of the calculus or calculi in relation to the pelvis or the cortex of the Iddney can often be indicated. Plate 41, Fig. 4, demonstrates three stones—one in the pelvis, one in the lower pole, and another in the cortex of the kidney. Diseases of the bladder.—In diseases of the bladder, X-ray examination is often of great value. Calculi in the bladder are often distinguishable ; therefore radiograjjhy should be employed in cases where it is inadvisable to employ the cystoscope or sound, or when the cystoscope is not available and examination with the sound has given a negative result. It is important to remember, however, that it is not uncommon to find in the bladder pure uric-acid calculi which, unless they be of large size, are not capable of demonstration. In such cases a negative diagnosis is therefore not of great value, especi- ally if the urine be sterile or uric-acid crystals be present. When in\s is present the calculi are probably composed of or coated with jDhos- phates, and as such would be opaque to the ravs and likely to cast a shadow. Plate 42. Fig. 1. is a radiogram of a case in which the usual exploration for vesical calculus with the sound was carefully made with the patient under an anaesthetic. The result of the examination was negative ; 3'et in the radiogram an obvious vesical calculus is 1 o be made out. Fig. 2 is a radiogram of a case of an elderly man with symptoms of cystitis, whom it was thought inadvisable to examine either by sound or cystoscope ; in the position indicated a collection of phosphatic calculi is to be seen. Prostatic calculi.—In radiograms of the bladder region the difference in jDOsition between prostatic and vesical calculi is a ques- tion of some importance. In a radiogram secured with the tube centred below the symphysis of the pubes, prostatic calculi are easily recognizable (Plate 42. Fig. 3). Foreign bodies in the urethra or bladder.—Discovery and locahzation of foreign bodies m the urethra or liladder, if such bodies be opaque to the rays, is a matter of small difficulty.