242 WOUNDS AND WOUND TREATMENT TREATMENT OF OPEN WOUNDS The wounds inflicted by the surgeon will be discussed under the heading of Surgical Technique (p. 247). Treatment of accidental wounds necessitates attention to the following points :— i. Stoppage of haemorrhage. ii. Cleansing. iii. Investigation. iv. Coaptation, if possible. V. Drainage, if necessary. vi. Rest. vii. Maintenance of general health. i. Stoppage of haemorrhage.—It is very important that bleeding should be stojiped, for, apart from the possibly disastrous results of continued haemorrhage, such unchecked bleeding materially interferes with healing by preventing coaptation of the edges of the wound, by providing a nidus for the development of micro-organisms, and by preventing adequate examination of the relationships of the wound, especially in its depths. The drier the wound, the more likely is primary healing without infection. Temporary arrest of haemorrhage is called for in cases of urgent bleeding, and may be effected by several methods :— (a) Pressure at the site of ha3morrhage is the first and immediate course to be adopted. Even extremely alarming bleeding may be efficiently controlled by the prompt local application of the thumb, a pad, or a firm bandage. (b) Pressure between the bleeding-point and the heart. For example, in large arterial wounds proximal pressure is brought to bear by digital compression or some form of tourniquet, improvised if necessary. In venous hsemorrhage, on the other hand, it is important that no proximal compression be employed, for if only sufficient force be used to obliterate the veins but not the arteries, the bleeding will be encouraged rather than stopped. Local pressure is quite effectual in such cases, as a temporary measure. (c) Packing with gauze or wool is often useful, especially when the blood wells up from a deep woimd, or from a sinus in the skull. Its value is largely dependent on tlie local pressure exerted, but also, to some extent, on its action in promoting the formation of the external clot. Even apparently serious hsemorrhage can be readily controlled temporarily by this means. It is not advisable, however, to rely upon packing as a means of permanent hsemostasis, inasmuch as primary healing is prevented by the presence of the gauze or wool, and further hsemorrhage may follow its removal.