THE TWO-GLASS TEST 8ii But it is different with the pus found in the posterior urethra. Here the compressor muscle prevents it from passing forwards ; it is free, however, to pass backwards into the bladder, where it mixes witli the urine collected there. In this case both portions of the urine first passed in the morning are turbid, the first being as a rule the more turbid. But if the urine be tested in this way during the day, when the urine has not been retained for so long a period as during the night, it frequently hajjpens that the second portion of urine is quite, or almost, clear. This variation in the turbidity of the second portion of urine with the time of day is one of the chief diagnostic signs of posterior urethritis, and distinguishes it from cystitis, in which the turbidity of the urine is constant, and the second portion thicker than the first. Hence the importance of the rule, when testing for the presence of posterior urethritis, to examine the urine first passed on rising. Two-Glass Test Acute anterior urethritis Acute posterior urethritis Cystitis First portion cloudy. Second jwrtion clear. First portion cloudy. Second portion cloudy, though less so than the first portion. First portion cloudy. Second jaortion always cloudy, generally more so than the first portion. The bacteriological diagnosis of gonorrhoea is often of great value., especially in medico-legal cases and, as we shall see later, in forming a decision as to the defijiite cure of the chronic condition. In the acute stages, microscopic examination of a stained smear of the pus will usually definitely establish the presence or absence of the gono- coccus ; but it is to be remembered that the gonococci are not evenly distributed throughout the pus ; therefore, several films should be prepared, and no antiseptic injection should have been made for some hours prior to the examination. Should no gonococci be found on the first examination, the search should be repeated on tlie following day, when, if they are still abisent, it may be safely concluded that the case is not one of gonorrhoea. Tliis, liowever, applies only to acute urethritis. In the chronic condition tlie gonococci are met with in spare numbers, and may be entirely absent from the secretion for days togetlier. Moreover, their appearance is by no means so characteristic as in the acute stage, for the cocci are no longer found within the body of the pus cells, but free, or adhering to the surface of epithelial cells. Hence their detection may require considerable bacteriological experience.