34° CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES but if the septic condition continues, tlie patient passes into an asthenic state with low muttering delirium and picking at the bedclothes. This condition, the so-called " tjphoid state," is sometimes seen from the first in cases of severe intoxication—for example, that associated with infection with the bacillus of malignant oedema—-or in elderly and debilitated patients. In cases of iodoform poisoning there is at first a period of excite- ment with hallucinations, and refusal to take food, followed by a period of depression, which in fatal cases deejDens into loss of consciousness, coma, and death. The first indication for treatment in the septic variety is to give free exit to the septic material, so that absorption may cease ; if this can be done the delirium soon passes off. The further treatment, both general and local, is that of a septic wound, sedatives being given, if considered necessary, to secure rest and sleep. In iodoform poisoning the use of the drug must be stopped immediately, but tliis is not always followed by amelioration of the symptoms, and death has occurred twenty-nine days after their onset, although the apjDlication of the drug was discontinued at once. 3. Delirium tremens.—This form of delirium is always asso- ciated with chronic alcoholism, although the exciting cause is often a severe trauma such as a fracture or operation, or an acute illness such as pneumonia. The condition is sometimes seen in children to whom small quantities of alcohol have been given, and it not infre- quently occurs in adults who have rarely been intoxicated but who are addicted to the use of alcohol in numerous small doses. The diagnosis often comes as a complete surprise and is received with incredulity by the relatives who may have been living with the patient. It is a matter of dispute whether the sudden stoppage of alcohol in a patient who is addicted to its use plays any part in the causation of the condition, and most authorities deny such stoppage any etiological significance, but it may be inadvisable to interdict alcohol to a patient accustomed to it, just after an operation or accident, on account of the general restlessness and discomfort that may result. Delirium tremens is an excited or motor melancholia connected with hallucinations, delusions of persecution, mental depression, often suicidal tendencies, and loss of concentration of attention. Th? symptoms usually begin a day or so after the operation or accident, and develop gradually. The prodromal symptoms are sleeplessness, restlessness, and constant talking, often incoherent, although the patient will give sensible answers to questions. The temperature is usually raised (100° F.), the tongue furred, the bowels are consti- pated, and the lips and fingers tremulous. The appetite is poor, and there may be absolute disgust for food, but the patient is usually