TETANUS 882 (1) "opisthotonos," (2) " emprostliotonos," (3) " pleurasthotonos," and (4) " orthotonos," the body and limbs being arched (1) in a back- ward, (2) forward, and (3) lateral direction, or (4) becoming rigidly straightened. The risus sardonicus is especially marked during the convulsions, and may be only apparent during their progress. The spasms are sometimes so violent as to cause actual laceration of the affected muscles and extravasations of blood. They are an index of the severity of the disease, and in most chronic cases are infrequent, mild, and brief in duration. In a severe attack they appear early, are terrible in their intensity, and cause great agony. In the late and hopeless stages, convulsion follows convulsion with scarcely a remis- sion, and chloroform alone can procure relief. One of the gravest dangers of tetanus is the respiratory em- barrassment during the spasms. The cramping of the intercostals and diaphragm causes terrible ajjprehensions of suffocation, violent abdominal pain, and deep cyanosis. Relaxation, from carbohsemia, is said to supervene always before the fatal issue ; but it is certain that death may, and often does, occur during a prolonged spasm. A rare variety of tetanus is tetanus hydropJiobicus faralyticus, in which a facial wound gives rise to an ascending neuritis of the seventh cranial nerve. The compression of the nerve in the aqueduct of Fallopius produces facial paralysis, while spasms are noted in other parts. The paralytic phenomenon is associated with dysphagia and maniacal attacks, but such cases are not necessarily more severe than those of the ordinary type. The general condition is dominated largely by the severity of the spasms. The pulse-rate is directly affected, becoming proportionately rapid as they are violent. The ensuing exhaustion is extreme, and death may occur during the subsequent relaxation from sudden cardiac failure, or the heart may flicker out more gradually as the patient dies from collapse. Sudden death in these circumstances has been attributed to vagus paralysis. Fever is not a marked symp- tom. The temperature either remains normal, or more often rises to 101°-102° F. Hyperpyrexia has been noted before death. The skin is, for the most part, moist, but during the spasms becomes bathed in perspiration. Sleeplessness is the rule, but the mind is clear and without delirium until near the end. The alimentary system is always much disturbed. Constipation is a prominent feature, and requires the exhibition of drastic purges. The tongue is thicldy furred, and the breath offensive. Vomiting does not occur. A painful feature of the disease is the difficulty experienced in swallowing nourishment and the fruitless efforts to evacuate the bowel, which tend to exhaust and distress the patient, and frequently initiate a convulsion.