SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 30 only of a short duration ; in diphtheria and pneumonia it is still shorter, and is very brief indeed ; while in erysipelas it is often held to be entirely absent, and susceptibility is said to be actually increased by a previous attack of the disease. During the development of active immunity there are produced a variety of substances to which reference has already been made, but which require some further consideration. Among these the antitoxins are the most familiar, and the most readily applicable as protective agents. Their production may be artificially induced by inoculating an animal with sufficient doses of the corresponding toxin, as well as by the method of infection with the bacterium itself where toxins of bacterial origin are in question. Those prepared against the toxins of diphtheria, of tetanus, of anthrax, and of snake venoms are of important practical utility. These substances are formed by the reaction of the animal itself, and are not, as was once supposed, merely the toxin in a modified condition, since an animal will respond to an inoculation with a given toxin by producing an amomit of antitoxin sufficient a million times or more to antagonize the dose of toxin introduced. Moreover, an immmiized animal may be repeatedly and very freely bled until far more than the original amount of antitoxin present has been removed from its body, and yet, on recovery from the bleeding, its blocd will be found to contain practically as much antitoxin as it did before. This observation can only be explained on the supposition that the substance in question is being continuously produced by cellular activity in the tissues of the animal itself. In this connexion it is important to remember that substances similar to the antitoxins in tJieir action are sometimes to be found in the blood of normal and entirely untreated animals, though usually only in quite small amounts. The mode of action of the antitoxins is still to some extent in doubt. They do not actually destroy the toxins which they antagonize, since a mixture of toxin and antitoxin can be made which is entirely non-toxic for a susceptible animal, but nevertheless may become so under suitable conditions. This occurs, for example, in some cases when the mixture is heated, thus proving that the toxin in the mixture had not been destroyed by the antitoxin, but was merely kept inactive by being held in some kind of chemical combination or association with it. That such a combination actually takes place has been denied, but the great mass of evidence available strongly supports the view that the antitoxin actually neutralizes the toxin in much the same way that an acid neutralizes a base. It would appear that it is in general only possible to recover toxin from a toxin-antitoxin mixture when the two have remained in contact but for a short time. When the