7i8 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS induration is found to be due to an infiltration of the edges of the erosion with lymphoid cells and to a proliferation of the connective- tissue cells of the neighbourhood. Proliferated epithelial cells, prob- ably from the blood- or lymphatic vessels or spaces, and giant cells may also be present; and the small arterioles may show periarteritis and endarteritis. The induration around the original erosion continues, and may gradually increase in degree, until about the twenty-fifth day, after which the newly formed tissue becomes absorbed, and in about two months there may be merely a slight scar representing the chancre. The degree of induration has been regarded as an important factor in prognosis—the more marked the induration the less favourable the prognosis. This is not borne out in my experience ; many of the cases with marked induration have cleared up quite easily. The persistence of the induration in spite of treatment does, how- ever, appear to indicate that the attack has been a severe one. CLINICAL COURSE OF SYPHILIS The clinical course of the disease is divisible into six stages :— I. The stage of primary incubation, between exposure to infection and the appearance of the chancre. II. The primary stage, during which the chancre develops and glands enlarge. III. The seco7idary incubation stage, between the appearance of the chancre and that of secondary symptoms. IV. The secondary stage, the period of fever, neuralgic pains, and skin manifestations. V. The intermediate stage, during which the patient may be practically free from any signs. VI. The tertiary stage, which is characterized by the develop- ment of gummata, periostitis, osteitis, etc. THE PRIMARY INCUBATION PERIOD This lasts about twenty-five to thirty days after exposure, though it may be said that a sore commencing after ten days from the date of possible infection is probably syphilitic. THE INITIAL LESION The first obvious lesion is the chancre, which makes its appearance at the site of inoculation. It is usually single, but may be multiple (Plate 72, and Plate 73, Pig. 1), as many as six, seven, or more initial sores being sometimes seen. The chancre begins as a small, sharply rounded, excoriated erosion,