GUINEA-WORM INFECTION 507 da J'; this may be alternated with weak antiseptic compresses during part of each day. Extraction of tlie whole worm may sometimes be effected in three or four days, but may take much longer. Some surgeons (Brakenridge) rely upon regular douching alone, leaving the worm to come out of itself, which it usually does in about fourteen days. Others adopt the less advisable plan of injecting the worm and its surroundings with perchloride of mercury (1-1,000). Gentleness is essential to prevent breaking of the worm, which may set up severe septic cellulitis, going on even to gangrene. After the extraction the long sinus usually heals without difficulty. Prophylaxis is based on the fact that the embryos must reach water for their development. They can live in clean water for six days, and in muddy water and moist earth for three weeks, but for metamorphosis into worms they ^ . ^ , J., ^ n 1 • F>g- 247.—Gumea-worm must spend from three to five weeks m ^eing extracted from foot, a small crustacean, Cyclops quadricorn is ; (/•,,„„ .t ••/■,-„/,/,,,//)«< „,„■.>. ) this is then ingested by man or other animal, and the young worms are set free. In almost exactly a year's time the female worm, having made her way slong the intramuscular planes, presents herself under the skin. The ulceis are usually placed on a part of the host's body most frequently exjDosed to the water, so necessary for the development of the embryo ; thus in water-carriers the back, in other patients the legs and arms, are most often affected. Prophylaxis then consists in preventing fouling of the drinking-water by the discharge of embryos into it, and insisting on its being boiled and filtered. Dogs, jackals, bullocks, and horses, among other animals, also suffer from infection, and must be just as carefully excluded from the water supply, which should, whenever possible, be taken from a running stream. FILARIASIS The parasite is the Filaria Bancrofti (Fig. 248), a long, hair-like, transparent nematode worm, 3 in. to 4 in. long, the female being the larger and longer, and occupied in almost the whole length by two uterine tubes filled with ova in various stages of development. The anterior end of both sexes is slightly tapered and club-shaped, wliile the tail tapers to an abruptly rounded-off tip. The tail of the male, moreover, is sharply incurved and curled. Male and female worms may be coiled together in balls, and are thus found in cyst-like dila- tations of the distal lymphatics ; or they may lie more loosely in