582 TUMOURS lined with cubical or columnar cells or masses of cells, or it may have the structure of carcinoma simplex. Macroscopically it may occur as a soft, solid tumour, sometimes of large size, smooth or slightly lobulated, and often retaining the form of the ovary. In other cases the tumour may present itself as a multilocular cyst, which to the naked eye presents no evidence of malignancy, or in which, on section, solid masses are seen between the cysts or in their walls, or projecting into the cysts so as partly or completely to fill them. The solid growths may rupture through the cyst wall, and appear as outgrowths on the surface of the cystic tumour. Carcinoma of the ovary, in either the solid or the cystic form, is sometimes bilateral. Secondary deposits in the pelvic lymphatic glands and peritoneum and metastases elsewhere may occur. It is very important to re- member, as has already been pointed out, that secondary carcinoma of the ovaries, sometimes bilateral, is not very uncommon, especially when the primary growth is situated in the breast, stomach, or other abdominal viscera. Bland-Sutton, who doubts the existence of primary cancer of the ovaries, has called especial attention to the fact that sometimes the existence of the primary growth may be overlooked and the secondary deposit in the ovary regarded as primary. The same observer has also pointed out that secondary carcinoma ma}'- occur in an ovary which is already cystic. Carcinoma of the Fallopian tube is rare and usually occurs as a fungating mass distending the tube. Carcinoma of the vagina is not common. It generally assumes the squamous-celled form, and may commence as a warty growth or ulcer. In advanced cases the disease may extend to the rectum or bladder and fistulous communications result. Carcinoma of the vulva is not very frequent, and presents no features requiring special description. It is very constantly associated with a precancerous condition of the part, which was first described by Morris, who pointed out its similarity to the corresponding condition of the tongue. This condition is known as " leucoplakic vulvitis." Comyns Berkeley and Victor Bonney have carefully described the affection and the histological changes present in its different stages. The whole of the vulva, with the exception of the vestibule and urethral orifice, is liable to be involved, and the changes may even spread to the folds of the thighs and to the perineum. The affected parts, at first red, swollen, and excoriated, next become white, shrunken, and thickened, and later the seat of cracks and ulcers. Finally, unless carcinoma has supervened, the whole vulva becomes smooth, shiny and white, the labia minora and clitoris practically disappear, and the disease becomes quiescent. It is from the ulcers and fissures that carcinoma is especially liable to arise, but it may develop at an early