798 CONGENITAL SYPHILIS true " white pneumonia," and is generally said to be incompatible with life. Carpenter reports a case in which death did not occur until the age of 13 months. Still considers that the condition is consistent with much longer life, and is the cause of the fibroid disease of one lung which is by no means an uncommon disease in children. A second form, described by Heller as interstitial pneumonia, is, as its name implies, dependent upon a growth of the interalveolar and interlobular connective tissue, which starts from the vessels and bronchi. Owing to this connective-tissue growth, the alveoli become compressed. Such a lung is enlarged, pale, or greyish-red, and hard. The capillaries are often enlarged, and tortuous; the alveolar epithelium is swollen and may show desquamation, but more often it assumes a cubical character, the lung alveoli presenting the appear- ance of glandular spaces. A combination of the white pneumonia with interstitial overgrowth is the most common appearance in the lungs of syphilitics. Digestive tract.—The intestinal canal may be the seat of ulcers which are gummatous in nature, and which occur most commonly in the small intestine. Multiple miliary gummata are also met with in the mucous and muscular coats from the stomach downwards. Liver.—The liver is very frequently found diseased in children who are born dead. Jaundice and ascites are rare complications. The liver is usually enlarged. The surface is commonly unaltered, except in the contracted hob-nail type of cirrhosis, which is found in later childhood. Hochsinger describes four varieties of hepatic changes :-— L Diffuse, small, round-celled infiltration of the connective tissue, and involvement of the acini by these cells. The inflammation starts around the small arteries. The macro- scopic appearance of the liver is normal. 2. Hyperplasia of the connective tissue, so that the liver is enlarged, hard in consistence, and yellow or yellow- brown in colour. The commencement is a hyperplasia of the connective tissue in the adventitia of the vessels. 3. Miliary gummata (flint-like Hver), greyish-yellow nodules about the size of a pin's head, are scattered about in the parenchyma chiefly, but also in the interacinous con- nective tissue, and especially around branches of the portal vein. 4. True gummata. A rare condition. The most typical hepatic condition found in infants is a combina- tion of the first and second of the varieties described by Hochsinger.