TnSTOG KNOUS I.EVCOCYTV.S I 21 tliat oilier fixed connective-tissue cells may act in the same way as these corneal ciir]>uscles. iii. Clasmatocytes.—'i'he origin of these cells, which were lirst described by Jianviei'. is nincitain. They are larue, irregular cells, which are elongated and >hnw numenms branching processes (i'l tte IS. Vi'^. 1), beint; proljabh' concerned in the amo'lioid moN'ements of the cell. The nucleus is ov.d and the cytoplasm contains irregular basopliile granules, which lianvier regarded as stored-up secretion. He niaintnineil that they came from the blood, and were modified leucocytes. According to .Marchand. they are primitive wandering cells ■" in the tissues. They resemble the modified corneal corpuscles described by Senft- leben and by Councilman in their work on inflammation of the cornea ; and, in what may be regarded as their resting stage, they appear as moiionnclcated cells, resembling those deri\-ed from endothelial and coniii-cl i\ i--t issue structures. i\'. Fibroblasts.—These spindle-shaped cells are deiived from the nioiionueleated cells, though there is much dilTerence of opinion as to which k'inds of mononuclears are concerned in their foi'mation. 1'he\' are dc\-elo|}ed onl\' in the later stages of acute iidlammation and in the more chi'onic conditions, and ai'e I'ather cells concernecl in 1 he process of repair. \'. Giant ceils.— Cells with se\-erai nuclei are common in all inflammatory conditions (PI iti> IS. l''ig. 2), and are most numerous in the late stages. ]\I:iny of these are formeil by fusion into plasmodial masses of endothelial or other forms of mesoblastic cells, though some seem to result from an aberrant cell-growth wh(>re the nuclei undergo division without the j)rotoplasm following suit. They are amo'boid and activelv phagocytic, are special!v well developed where resistant tissues (e.g. bone) have to be absorbed, and they form a s])ecial feature of certain chronic inflammatory conditions (e.g. tuberculosis, sypliilis, etc,). Phagocytosis and the function of the leucocytes. — The term " |)hagoc\"te, ' which was introduci'd .Metclmilcoll', is applied to cells that ingest foreign mat(>rials, bacteria, and other cells, and. by a process of intracellular digestion, bring about the solution of certain of these ingested particles. It has l)een shown iliat th(> process of ]diagocytosis is almost a uni\'ersal endowment of cell-life, and by many authorities it is considered to be th(> most im|iortant clefensive agent against disease or disease-producing ]n-o- ducts. and likewise an essential factor for the carrying on of cell- life. In physiological conditions plia,20cytosis is a constant feature, for the moulding of the tissues (e.g. the bones) is largely brought about l)y the action of these phagocytic cells, and waste products of various kinds are removed bv them. There seems akso little doubt