TUMOURS 544 appearances of the disease are indistinguishable from those of a simple colloid goitre. At a comparatively early stage a carcinoma of the thyroid tends to encroach upon the structures outside the capsule, and the tumour thus becomes fixed. Extension to the trachea is most common, the growth involving and finally ulcerating through the mucous membrane. Berry states that although the muscular wall of the pharjTix is often implicated, the tumour very rarely penetrates the mucous membrane. By its further growth the tumour may become adherent to and even surround the large vessels of the neck, and may cause paralysis of the recurrent laryngeal and sympathetic nerves. Metastases are very common in carcinoma of the thyroid, some forms affecting particularly the lymphatic glands of the neck and thorax, and others occurring by way of the blood-stream. The frequency of the latter is no doubt explained by the character of the blood-vessels, which often have not the usual form of capillaries, but are irregular sinusoid spaces in the very delicate stroma, the endo- thelium bounding them being in direct contact with the epithelial cell-masses. The metastases are particularly common in the bones, which, according to Limbacher, are affected in 37 per cent, of the cases. These secondary bone deposits are sometimes remarkable for the extraor- dinary way in which their structure imitates that of normal thyroid tissue, and also in the fact that they may pulsate. The first cases of this nature were recorded by Cohnlieim and Max Runge in 1876, and were followed, in 1880, by Morris's case in this country. In the latter, secondary growths were present in the left parietal bone, right clavicle, and both femurs, and it was only after investigation by a committee of the Pathological Society, consisting of Marcus Beck, Butlin, and Godlee, that the relation of the bone tumours to an enlargement of the thyroid gland was established. Since that date numerous similar cases have been recorded. The great clinical importance of this aspect of carcinoma of the thyroid depends upon the fact that a secondary bone deposit may alone engage the attention of the surgeon, whilst the existence of an enlargement of the thyroid may be overlooked or disregarded. Many mistakes of this kind are on record, and in more than one instance a jjulsating secondary tumour of the sternum has been mistaken for a thoracic aneurysm. Hebb has recorded the case of a man aged 41 who was admitted into the Westminster Hospital suffering from paraplegia and angular curvature of the upper dorsal spine. The symptoms were of two years' duration, and were accompanied by great emaciation. At the post-mortem examination a mass of growth was found involving