693 LOCAL ANESTHETICS 2. The special dangers referred to later (p. 704). 3. The unsuitability of the method to the Trendelenburg position {see p. 705, Jonnesco's method). 4. The uncertainty of the method as to— (a) Successful performance of injection. (h) Establishment of complete analgesia. (c) Duration of analgesia. (d) Its regularity of distribution. (e) Its probable height. These questions are dealt with later. 5. Its unsuitability, for obvious reasons, to gynaecological opera- tions ill tlie lithotomy position. 6. The high level of analgesia required for most abdo- minal operations. This is shown by the fact that analgesia, even to the level of the fifth or sixth dorsal nerve area, does not always abolish sensations of nausea and dragging when the omen- tum, mesentery, and uterus are roughly handled ; experience shows that only very high analgesia—i.e. to the clavicles—will do this, and that only in some cases. Various agents for the induction of analgesia.—Up to the present time six substances especiallv have been used in this country and abroad. 1. Cocaine was the earliest analgesic used for intraspinal injec- tion, but owing to its highly toxic properties it has been definitely abandoned as dangerous. 2. Eucaine has not survived more than a brief trial. It was found to be quite unreliable in its effects, although much less toxic tlian cocaine. 3. Tropacocaine has been much advocated by Leedham-Green, who has kindly given the present writer the following notes of its characters and use :— "It is less frequently followed (than stovaine and novocaine) by un- pleasant after-effects, such as headache and vomiting. The slightness of the action of tropacocaine on the motor cells lessens the jjossibility of the resjjiratory muscles being interfered with." Leedham-Green uses 1 to 1"5 c.c. of a 5 per cent, solution, to which he adds 3 to 9 c.c. of cerebro-spinal fiuid Ijefore injection ; and he draws attention to the decomposition of the drug by soda solution. He has abandoned the Trendelenburg position. The average dura- tion of analgesia is 1'5 hours ; headache is noted in 5 per cent, of cases, and shock is absent. 4. Alypin is a derivative of glycerine, and is neutral in reaction. It has been used abroad in combination with suprarenin borate. It is claimed for it that it is less toxic than cocaine, and that it produces