3o8 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES hsemorrliage from acutely inflamed tissue, however, the colour of the blood is much lighter than usual. Intermittent flow from veins is seen in haemorrhage from the great veins of the neck and from all the large veins that are influenced by the thoracic movements, especially if the blood comes from a lateral opening in the vein. The inter- mittency of the flow is not dependent upon the heart's beat, but upon the movements of respiration. On inspiration the negative pressure in the thorax is increased, the venous return is quickened, the veins tend to collapse, and the flow diminishes. It is at this moment that entrance of air into the veins is to be feared. With expiration the negative pressure in the thorax is diminished and may give place to a positive pressure, the veins swell, and the flow fi-om them is increased. Haemorrhage chiefly takes place from the distal end of a vein, bleed- ing from the proximal end being ^^revented by the valves ; but it may be severe from the proximal end in cases of varicose veins where the valves are incompetent, in veins that have no valves, and in those that are markedly influenced by the movements of respiration. Air in veins.—Air may be sucked into veins by the negative pressure in the thorax, especially if the great veins of the neck are wounded during an operation. This accident can be diagnosed by a curious characteristic sucking noise. If only a small amoimt of air finds entrance no symptoms follow, but if the quantity is large the heart's action becomes irregular, respu-ation is embarrassed, syncope follows with cyanosis, and in severe cases the patients die. This train of events is brought about through the frothing of the blood by the air. The frothed blood in the heart interferes with the action of the valves, and heart failure is the result. Primary capillary haemorrhage.—Capillaryhasmorrhageshows itself as a continuous ooze of red blood from many points of a raw surface or mucous membrane. As a rule, it soon ceases spon- taneously, and is only dangerous under certain conditions which may be either local or general. The local condition causing danger is the large size of the bleeding surface, such as the wall of a large tubercular abscess after scraping, or the uterus after removal of the placenta ; but haemorrhage from these sources is usually readily arrested by appropriate treatment. Far more important are the general condi- tions, for when these are present capillary hajmorrhage may prove fatal even when the bleeding occurs from a small surface. The most important general causes of continuous capillary haemorrhage are certain general diseases, such as scurvy, leucocythaemia, certain blood diseases, as Henoch's purpura, and certain chronic intoxica- tions, as jaundice. To these must be added the curious family disease haemophilia (p. 320). In all these conditions capillary haemorrhage may prove fatal in spite of the most careful general and local treatment.