TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS: MERCURY 755 should look as if blacklead had been used—shiny, but uot greasy. Each rubVjino; sliould last from fifteen to t\v -nty minutes. Number of rubbings.—A course of rubbings at Aix gener- ally lasts six weeks, and includes forty rubbings ; but in England, where the tolerance brought about by the natural bathing water is unobtainable, the rubbings should be intermitted after the thirtieth and not resumed until after a rest of at least two months. Precautions —During and for some time after a course of inunc- tion the greatest attention muit be paid to the hygiene of the mouLh. The teeth should be brushed after each meal, and the mouth frequently washed out with some astringent such as a lead acetate and alum wash. Should the gums become sore, they may be painted two or three times a day with perhydrol or peroxide of hydrogen. The diet must be generous and should include plenty of new milk. Spirits should be forbidden ; but beer, claret, and hock may be allowed in moderation. Exercise in the open air i.; to be encouraged, and free ven- tilation insisted upon. The advantages claimed for the inunction method are these :— 1. The therapeutic effects are more rapid and more marked than when the drug is given by the mouth. Inunction often cures wlien other methods have failed, and is especially useful in syphilitic scleroses, such as the primary induration, sclerotic glossitis, tabes, etc. 2. It rarely affects the digestion. It is therefore preferable to the ingestion method in subjects liable to dyspepsia or diarrhea, in infants and young children, and in those in whom support of the general condition is important. 3. It leaves the stomach available for the administration of other remedies, such as potassium iodide, cod-liver oil, tonics, etc. Its disadvantages are-— 1. Its necessarily intermittent character. 2. Its liability to cause dermatitis, stomatitis, and occasionally diarrhoea. Dermatitis is fairly common and is usually limited to the sites of the inunction ; it then generally occurs as an erythema, either circumscribed or diffuse. In some cases it may appear as an eczema—a deep-red area of erythema covered with vesicles con- taining clear fluid, that later becomes turbid, and accompanied by inflammation, swelling, and severe itching. Stomatitis is more common with inunction than with any other method of introducing mercury, and is more likclv to be severe. Moreover, the stomatitis resulting from inunction differs from that caused by ingestion of mercury in the following particulars, viz. : Its onset is sudden and