6/2 GENERAL ANESTHESIA sucli cases is sprayed straight on to the open mask or on to the spong& of the semi-open inhaler in use. Owing to its free dilution with air, the dose of ethyl-chloride need not be so strictly limited as when closed methods are employed. This preliminary use of ethyl-chloride on an open mask is very convenient for safely and quickly quelling the- cries of a frightened infant when desired. CHLOROFORM Chloroform (CHClg) is a colourless liquid, less volatile than ether, with a sweetish, fiery odour and taste. It is not inflammable, but in the presence of naked flame its vapour decomposes, forming poison- ous compounds (carbonyl-chloride). For this reason there should be free ventilation whenever chloroform is used in a small room con- taining a fire or a bare lamp-flame or gas-jets. It should be stored in a cool, dark place, and its purity should be evidenced by neutral reaction to test paper, non-irritating smell, and absence of residue on spontaneous evaporation from a watch-glass. Upon nerve tissue chloroform has a deadening action about seven times as powerful as that of ether. It produces, when in the circulation, lowering of blood- pressure and weakened heart-action and gradual failure of the vital centres. The stronger the vapour of chloroform inhaled, the more certain and rapid is the production of these effects. The cardinal principle, therefore, in the administration of chloroform is to supply a vapour freely diluted with air; and from experiments, both clinical and physiological, it is concluded that about 2 per cent, of chloro- form to 98 per cent, of air is the safe strength. For induction of ansesthesia it may be, and often is, necessary to exceed this strength. For the maintenance of anaesthesia when once induced that is rarely the case. The importance of regulating the strength of vapour of a drug sO' potent as chloroform has led to the invention of many instruments- designed to achieve this aim. It is certain, however, that even with such instruments constant care and watchfulness on the anaesthetist's, part are necessary for safety when chloroform is used. Consequently, many anaesthetists still prefer simple means of administration, relying for the avoidance of accident upon close observation of the symptoms- evoked, and their knowledge of the danger of strong vapours. More- over, the simple methods are more widely applicable and infinitely more convenient. We shall therefore describe such a system of adminis- tration first, as being one on the whole most suited to a competent anaesthetist. The inexperienced, however, will undoubtedly run less risk of accident if he employ a regulating inhaler. The most simple and most efficient method of giving chloroform is by means of a drop-bottle and open mask. Those