741 TERTIARY SYPHILIS are small nodules j^rojecting into the mucous membrane, where they can be felt as hard bodies, not always very well defined. Unaffected at first, the mucous membrane covering them eventually softens and ulcers are formed, with a tyjjical " wash-leather " slough as its floor. The deep gummata may lie at any depth in the tongue substance. They occur at any age, and are often found in children, but gener- ally appear in middle life. They form painless, indolent swellings, with the mucous membrane covering them unaltered. As a rule they are not tender. Sooner or later they soften, and the mucous membrane gives way and ulceration takes place. Needless to say, this is a very chronic and obstinate affection. Differentia! diagnosis.—Gummata of the tongue may be mis- talcen for either innocent or malignant tumours. The points of distinction between innocent tumours and gummata are these : The former are often polypoid, the latter never ; innocent tumours are, as a rule, well defined, whilst gummata are not ; the former are generally single, gumma is more often multiple ; innocent tumours are often, gummata never, lobulated. The diagnosis between gumma of the tongue and cancer turns upon the following differences : Cancer is nearly always single, gumma often multiple. The former tends to attack the borders of the tongue, the latter as often the middle. Cancer often forms opposite a carious tooth, whereas gumma has no connexion there- with. Cancer is usually a disease occurring in patients past middle life, gumma is found in those between twenty-five and thirty years of age. The tongue in gumma is freely movable, whilst its mobility is impaired in cancer. The microscope and history will also furnish help in differentiating between the two affections. Fissures and ulcers of the tongue may occur both in early and in late S3'philis. The latter are very often found on the dorsum and are caused by softening of the gummata. Ulceration begins as a small hole, which quickly enlarges by the giving way of the infiltrated tissue surrounding the tumour. A cavity is formed with sharply-cut, ragged, undermined borders and sloughy floor. Symptoms are usually singularly slight, considering the condition ; the patient suffers in many cases little inconvenience other than a feeling of thickness of the tongue, pain being practically absent at first, though sometimes this may be troublesome while ulceration is proceeding. Treatment of affections of the tongue.—In view of the undoulited fact that smokers suffer mucli more often from these affections than non-smokers, all tobacco should be prohibited during an attack of syphilis, especially if the tongue be involved. All otlier sources of irritation should be removed, all spirits and