SUBSEROUS LIPOMA 363 the limbs, the skull, the spine, and the pelvis. In a case recorded by D'Arcy Power, a boy aged 9 years was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital for a soft, jjainless, elastic swelling on the outer aspect of the upper third of the thigh. The tumour, which before operation was believed to be a chronic abscess, proved to be a large fatty tumour firmly attached by a broad base to the periosteum of the femur below the lesser trochanter. A parosteal lipoma of the calvarium may be distinguished from a sebaceous cyst by its hemispherical shape and fixation to the bone. Subserous and subsynovial lipoma. — A fatty tumour occasionally arises in the loose tissue external to the serous mem- branes, such as the pleura and peritoneum. Subperitoneal hpomas have been met with in many different situations, such as the mesen- tery, omentum, broad ligament, and in connexion with the peri- toneum of the parietes. The most important form is that which occupies the retroperitoneal tissue and forms a tumour, sometimes of very large size, behind the abdominal viscera. As a rule, such a tumour originates in the perirenal fat, but Adami, who in 1897 collected 42 cases, found that in some instances the tumour begins in the mesenteric fat, and in others the exact origin is doubtful. ' As Alban Doran and others have shown, the removal of such a tumour is a very serious proceeding, and in several instances has proved fatal. On the other hand, a lipoma of the omentum may be removed without any serious risk. Malapert has recorded a case in which a lipoma weighing 6,(i5U grm. evidently had its origin in one of the appendices epiploicse of the sigmoid colon. The patient, a woman aged 38, had suffered from a painless enlargement of the abdomen for eighteen months. The tumour was diagnosed as an ovarian cyst, but proved to be a large lipoma attached by a slender pedicle to the sigmoid colon. Reference may here be made to certain fatty growths not un- commonly met with in the linea alba, especially above the umbilicus and at the various hernial orifices. Such growths, which ma}' simulate true lipomas on the one hand, or omental hernias on the other, are probably always derived from the subserous tissue, and within the mass of fat a small peritoneal sac is usually present. Fatty tumours of the spermatic cord and labium, although they may occur independently of the presence of a peritoneal sac, probably belong to the same group. In a few recorded cases, as, for instance, one described by McGavin, a tumour of the perineum, closely resembling a perineal hernia, has proved to be composed entirely of fat, the tumour being sometimes associated with an overgrowth of the subperitoneal fat in the lower part of the abdomen. Closely aUied to the subserous lipomas are the fatty growths