779 EFFECTS OF SALVARSAN reported three cases of optic neuritis wliicli he attributes to arsenic absorbed from the site of an intramuscular depot. Wechsehnann, who with Felir has paid special attention to this point, was unable to find that any injury to the optic nerve resulted in over 1,200 cases treated by him. On the other hand, as a result of Fehr's careful examinations, he shows that 2 per cent, of cases in the secondary stage suffer from optic nerve changes without subjective symptoms, and it is possible that in cases where the injection of salvarsan fails to arrest these it may be blamed for the eventual eye changes when they become apparent to the patient. Bladder disturbances and obstinate con- stipation are occasionally reported to have occurred after the admin- istration of salvarsan, but we have no experience of these, and in a certain number it is admitted that the remedy had been allowed to become oxidized liei'ore being injected. Permanence of its effect on syphilis.—It is impossible to speak definitely on this point. In view of the long periods that syphilis can lie latent, even if no relapses had occurred up to the present time, it would be no justification for pronouncing the effects of salvarsan to be permanent. On the other hand, it must be admitted that the number of relapses which have so far been reported would probably have been considerably less had they not included a large number of cases in which an inadequate dose was given. Larger than the number of clinical relapses is that in which the Wassermann reaction, after becoming negative, has returned to jaositive. As a rough guide we may mention that out of 136 cases which were treated with what is still considered to be an adequate dose, and have been under our observation for three to eleven months since the last injection, 15 have shown chnical relapses ; while out of 68 cases in which blood serum was regularly tested for the Wassermann reaction during the same period, 30, after being converted to negative, have returned to positive. Believing that the presence of a Wassermann reaction indicates active treponemata in the patient, we must include these cases amongst the relapses. Whether a method of administering salvarsan will ever be devised which will ensure its reaching every treponema in the body, and destroying it, is for the future to decide, and, meantime, our only course in dealing with the individual case is to insist on the strictest surveillance of the patient afterwards, particularly in regard to the Wassermann reaction. Comparison with mercury.—Unquestionably, in its effect on clmical symptoms, on the treponemata in local lesions, on the Wassermann reaction, and in the prevention of relapses, salvarsan acts much more powerfully and rapidly than mercury. In addition to these, unlike mercury, it gives the patient a feeling of well- being which is of the greatest importance in the treatment of a