TUMOURS 476 glands, and in February, 1894, recurrent nodules in the neighbourhood of the scar and one above the right breast, were removed. In December of the same year there were several fresh nodules, and the patient was dyspnoeic. In January, 1895, at the age of 48, the patient was admitted to the Cancer Ward of the Middlesex Hospital; there were nodules on the chest-wall, and enlarged glands in both axillae and above the clavicles ; there was dullness at the base of the right lung, and the general condition was very grave. In March, 1896, pain was com- plained of in the left thigh ; the limb was shortened by one inch, and the femur below the trochanter was enlarged. In June, 1896, only one small nodule was present in the skin above the scar resulting from the removal of the left breast ; there were no palpable glands ; the dyspnoea had ceased, and the general condition had much improved ; the left thigh was less painful. When shown at the Clinical Society in November, 1896, the patient was enjoying life ; she walked with a limp, and, although the left lower limb was shortened by IJ inches and the femur bent, the bone was not notably enlarged. In April, 1899, the patient was continuing to enjoy good health. It is interesting to note that in this extraordinary case the cata- menia ceased early in 1895, and that within a comparatively short time from this date the improvement in the patient's condition began. An apparent arrest of the growth of a carcinoma of the breast at the menopause suggested to Beatson of Glasgow that oophorectomy might possibly prove advantageous in inoperable cases. Although in a certain number of cases removal of the ovaries appeared to be beneficial, further experience was so disappointing that the treatment has been abandoned. Such a case as the above proves that a malignant growth shares with almost all other diseased processes a certain, although exceedingly slight, tendency to spontaneous cure. Treatment of malignant tumours.—Except, perhaps, in the case of rodent ulcer, there is at the present day no means of treating a malignant tumour in the early stages of its growth which holds out a sufficient hope of effecting a cure to justify the surgeon in having recourse to it rather than in resorting at once to removal by operation, when the latter is practicable. Operative treatment.^—It will be possible within the limits of this article to deal only with certain general principles which should guide the surgeon in operating for the removal of a malignant tumour. The application of these to the treatment of malignant disease in its various forms and situations will be dealt with in the special sections of this work, and will be here referred to only in order to illustrate the general principles. 1. Operation should be urged in any case in which a chronic lesion,