328 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES the blood pressure associated with banking up of the blood on the venous side, with corresponding emptiness of the arteries, and accom- panied by weakness of the heart's action. That the fall of blood pressure and weakness of the heart's action is not due to cardiac muscle exhaustion is shown by the fact that if the heart muscle is appro- priately stimulated it will still contract quite as forcibly as if the animal were not in a condition of shock. In the same way it can be proved that the phenomenon is not due to exhaustion of the peripheral ganglia of the heart, as stimulation of the nerves to the heart will stUl result in a normal response, and the heart can be made to beat forcibly with a corresponding rise in the blood pressure. Cardiac inhibition has also been assigned as a cause, but severance of the inhibitory nerves does not lessen the amount of shock; and it is now generally believed that shock depends on a disturbance of the cardio- vascular centres in the medulla. The amount of shock present is best estimated in terms of the peripheral blood pressure, a fall in which may be produced in two ways by changes in the cardio-vascular centres—namely, by an inhibition, or by a temporary fatigue-paralysis, of the vaso-motor centre. In this way a distinction which is of some importance can be drawn between shoch and collapse, shock being due to fatigue-paralysis of the centre, whilst collapse is an inhibition of the centre. The treat- ment will vary slightly according as one or other of these conditions is believed to be present, although the symptoms of the two conditions are the same. This view of a paralysis of the vaso-motor centre due to fatigue or inhibition is not accepted by all writers. It has been pointed out that the cold skin of patients in shock shows a peripheral vaso-constric- tion which could not occur if the vaso-motor centre were paralysed. This objection can be met by assuming that the coldness of the skin is due to empty arteries and venous stasis, and the cyanosed appear- ance of the patient supports this view. If the view of central depres- sion be accepted—and certainly it conveniently explains the phenomena of shock—an examination of the causes of the condition given above shows that the inhibition or paralysis may be brought about in the following ways :— 1. By a direct effect from the higher nerve centres in the cortex on the lower centres in the medulla. 2. By over-stimulation of a large number of sensory nerves. 3. By loss of blood. 4. Reflexly by over-stimulation of the peripheral nerve ganglia, especially those of the abdomen. 5. By direct injury to the central nervous system.