ANGIOMA as is usually the case in myeloma of the lower end of the femur or the upper end of the tibia, the limb may safely be removed immediately above the disease. Before leaving the subject of myeloma, it may be well to point out that the name has been apphed to diffuse tumour-like formations of the bone-marrow occurring in certain rare cases, and in several recorded instances associated with the presence in the urine of the pecuhar protein substance or albumose first described by Bence Jones. The disease is also known by the names of " myelopathic albumosuria " and " Kahler's disease." and has been studied in this country especially by Bradshaw and Parkes Weber, in whose writings a full description of the recorded cases will be found. The diffuse growths, which, as a rule, show no tendency to cause metastases, affect chiefly the vertebrae, sternum, and ribs, less commonly the bones of the limbs, and may cause localized outgrowths on the bones. The softening of the bones due to the absorj)tion of the osseous tissue may be followed by gradual alteration in shape, producing in the case of the spine marked kyj)liosis. The natm-e of the diffuse growths has varied in different cases, and the term "myeloma" or "myelomatosis" is applied to them rather as indicating their origin in the bone-marrow than on the grounds of their actual structure. AINGIOIVIA An angioma is a tuuKiur of vascular structure, a hcemawjioma bemg composed of blood-vessels, and a Ijiiiip/Htnijionia of lymphatic vessels. Tumours of this nature are most commonly congenital, and are frequently known as vascular neevi, those composed of lymphatic vessels being distinguished as lymphatic naevi. The word ntevus strictly means a mole or natural mark, and is frequently employed to include pigmentary and other congenital marks on the skin ; but in the more common use of the term it is understood to mean a hajmangioma, whether congenital or acquired; HEMANGIOMA Tumours composed of blood-vessels are divided, according to the character of the constituent vessels, into capillary, arterial, venous, and cavernous, of which the (apillary and cavernous are the most common. Some confusion has arisen from tin use of the terms venous and cavernous in this connexion as if synonymous. A cavernous nsevus, however, does not consist of vessels resembling veins, but imitates the structure of the cavernous or erectile tissue met with in the penis and elsewhere. Capillary angioma.— If a capillary na'vus is examined