FIBROMA 365 varieties, it is usual and convenieut to recognize the hard and the soft forms. A iiard fihronia tends to assume a more or less globular form, and is often lobulated, although rarely to such an extent as a lipoma. The smooth surface of the tumour is easily separable from the tissues in which it lies, except from the part, such as the periosteum, in which it arises, but no capsule separable from the fibrous sub- stance of the tumour can be defined. When it is cut with a knife a peculiar creaking sen- sation is felt, and the tough unyielding consistence of the tumour is obvious. The cut sur- face is usually flat or very slightly convex, and presents a very characteristic appearance, caused by the intersecting glis- tening bands, like those compos- ing a tendon. Often the fibrous bundles are arranged in closely packed whorls, and the tumour is usually subdivided into lobules held together by looser connec- tive tissue (Fig. 44). Examined microscopically, a hard fibroma presents fasciculi of white fibres which, on ac- count of their irregular inter- section, are cut across in differ- ent relations to their length, elongated nuclei of the connective-tissue cells (Fig. 45). The blood- vessels vary much in different tumours in size and number. Often they are small and scanty, but in some fibromas large thin-walled vessels are present, which, being unable to collapse by reason of the density of the tissue around them, account for the free haemorrhage which sometimes occurs when a fibrous tumour is cut into. A soft fibroma differs from the hard variety in its consistence and in the fact that the cut surface of the tumour does not present the glistening ajjpearance caused by the densely packed liundles of white fibres. It consists of loose areolar tissue, the bundles of fibres being slender and forming an open network; the spaces are occupied by serous fluid, which may be present in sucli Fig. 44.—Hard fibroma of subcuta. neous tissue, showing slight lobu. lation of tumour and fasciculated appearance of section. {L'/tiz'L-i-sity CoiU\^c Hospital MuSt-mn.) Among the fibres are the small