GENERAL SYMPTOMS OF LEPROSY 859 discoloured and appears to be slightly pigmented in white patients, but slightly paler than the surrounding parts in coloured persons. The patches are absolutely antesthetic in most cases, devoid of hair, and do not sweat. (Figs. 234, 235.) The Bacillus leprw has been seen in these patches by some observers, but in most cases it cannot be found, and therefore its absence does not aid in the diagnosis. The patches, however, cannot be due entirely to the nerve lesions, as no similar phenomenon is observable in other nerve lesions or as the result of injury to the nerves. General symptoms. — Though the external mani- festations and the anfesthesia naturally attract most atten- tion, leprosy is a disease affect- ing the whole system. In the early stages there are often marked impairment of the general health and febrile at- tacks, sometimes acute, with a high temperatm-e, sometimes prolonged intermittent fever ; whilst in other cases an irregu- lar type of fever, with pro- longed apyrexial intervals, oc- curs. The pyrexia is often, but not necessarily, associated with , fresh external manifestations. If the disease is steadily pro- gressive these febrile attacks may occur throughout its whole course. In most cases, after a time, usually two or three years, the disease progresses very slowly, or the condition becomes stationary ; improvement and, in rare cases, spontaneous " cure " may take place, and, beyond the damage already done, no further change is seen. Even in these cases recrudescence may occur. Differential diagnosis is not, as a rule, difficult. Caries of the facial bones may produce an appearance not unlike that of tuber- culate leprosy, and chronic streptococcic infection or the results of repeated attacks of erysipelas may produce a thickening that is rather deceptive. The absence of the lepra bacilli from the fluid obtained on puncturing the thickened areas, and from the mucous discharge from the nares, will be sufficient to exclude tuberculate leprosy. The nerve or anaesthetic leprosy may be confused with conditions Fig. 235.—Anaesthetic patches in nerve leprosy.