286 MILITARY SURGERY nerves are not uncommon. Wounds of the larynx and trachea are accompanied by haemoptysis, usually slight, and if the larynx is dis- organized, or there is obstruction from oedema or hamorrhage, tracheotomy may be required. Surgical emphysema is sometimes very extensive, but is unimportant. The most dangerous com- plication is septic broncho-pneumonia, and in suppurating wounds of the air-passages a low tracheotomy may be advisable to prevent this sequel, particularly where there is also a wound of the oesophagus. Wounds of the pharynx and oesophagus often give rise to a very fatal spreading cellulitis deep in the neck. Good drainage must be secured ; the external woimd should be enlarged and a drainage-tube put in, with packing round it to protect the raw surface. Suture of the wound in the oesophagus is seldom practicable. Swallowing must not be allowed until the wound has nearly healed, but after a few days it may be possible to feed the patient through a stomach-tube, all food being given by the rectum at first. Penetrating wounds of the chest are much less serious injuries than formerly, as the small aperture made by the modern bullet seldom leads either to infection of the pleural cavity or to pneumothorax and collapse of the lung. Ribs may be perforated or notched, or may be fractured with some loss of substance. Bullets passing longi- tudinally in the plane of the chest wall may fracture several ribs. Comminution of the ribs does not often occur, except at their pos- terior ends. The ordinary signs of fractured rib are frequently absent. Haemorrhage from the intercostal vessels is uncommon, but it may be free ; it is more likely to occur into the pleural cavity than externally. Wounds from shell or shrapnel, and bayonet wounds, are more dangerous, as they are almost invariably septic and cause more serious injury to the lungs. The small-bore rifle bullet makes a fine punctured wound in the lung, and unless a large vessel is opened the damage is very slight. Wounds of the chest are often complicated by wounds of the arm, neck, spine, or abdomen. Wound of the diaphragm may cause shallow and painful respiration, hiccough, or painful vomiting. The more common symptoms in wound of the lung are haemoptysis, which is usually slight, a very variable degree of shock, and deficient expansion on the injured side. Occasionally some cyanosis, trouble- some cough, or surgical emphysema may be present. Pain is often absent, but may be severe if the pleura is lacerated or an intercostal nerve injured. Pneumothorax is very uncommon, and the free passage of air in and out of the pleura is also very seldom seen, and only with large wounds of the chest wall. Haemothorax is fairly common, and may considerably delay recovery. The disturbance due to moving patients towards the base is a frequent cause of haemothorax. Empyema may result from direct infection of the pleura, especially with large