44 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY way in which constant, rehable, and satisfactory results can be obtained is by the macroscopic method of examination. Microscopic method.—Serum is separated from the blood to be examined, and a number of dilutions (1-5, 1-10, 1-20, 1-50, etc.), are made with culture bouillon. This should by preference be done accurately with a graduated capillary pipette, but is sometimes done by placing a loopful of serum on a slide with a platinum loop, placing round it in succession as many loopfuls of bouillon as are needed for the dilution desired, and then mixing all the loopfuls together. A young bouillon culture of the organism to be tested is then taken in hand (preferably not more than 18 hours old), and a measured c^uantity of this (or a looj)ful) is mixed with an equal measured quantity (or loopful) of diluted serum. From the mixture a hanging-drop is made, or a drop placed on a slide and simply covered with a cover-glass. The effect of the serum is watched under the microscope. It is important that the culture be examined also without the addition of serum, to avoid the fallacy of spontaneous agglutination of the bacteria, and for the same reason emulsions from agar should never be employed. As regards the diagnosis of enteric fever, it is usually agreed that a positive reaction within 20 minutes, with a total dilution of the serum of 1 in 50, justifies a diagnosis of tyjjhoid infection. Macroscopic method.—The test should be performed in the following manner :— Take a test-tube and label it A. Place 10 small sedimentation-tubes in a stand in 2 rows of 5 each. Using a special dropping pipette, measure out into tube A 36 drops of tap-water. With the same pipette add 4 drops of the serum to be examined. This gives a dilution of 1 in 10. Wash the pipette carefully. In tube 1 of each row place 0 drops of taj)-\vater- „ 2 „ „ 5 3 „ „ 8 4 „ „ 9 „ 5 „ „ 10 With the same pipette add- To tube 1 in each row 2 3 4 5 Wash the pipette carefully and use it to add to each tube in row 1, 15 drops of a specially prepared sterile cultureof the micro-organism to be ' Ordinary meat (veal) peptone bouillon is used as culture-medium. It should be as pale as possible, and should not be autoclaved for more than 15 minutes at 115° C, otherwise the colour deepens and the cultures become more liable to spontaneous agglutination. The less grape sugar there is in the bouillon the better, for numerous experiments have proved that grape sugar lessens the agglu 10 drops of diluted serum from tube A. " >> >> » V 2 1