606 DROWNING By ARTHUR KEITH, M.D., LL.D.Aber., F.R.G.S.Eng. Death from drowning is caused by the entrance of water or of other fluid matter into the air-passages and lungs, thus preventing the renewal of the air-content of the lungs and the respiratory exchange of the tissues which are necessary for life. The tissues of the body do not die simultaneously in the drowned. The nerve-centres are the first to go, and in twelve to eighteen minutes from the onset of unconsciousness the vitality of the central nervous system cannot be restored. The heart, on the other hand, continues to work feebly for an hour or more, and has been caused to beat vigorously again by artificial means from five to twenty hours after death of the central nervous system. Thus it will be apparent that a speedy restoration of the cerebral circulation, in order that the brain may have its supply of oxygen renewed and its surplus of carbon dioxide removed, must be the j^rinciple on which all methods of resuscitation are based. Stages in the act of drowning.—It is convenient to recognize five stages in the act of drowning, but it must be remem- bered that they are not sharply demarcated, and that the rate of their occurrence varies with the individual. In some, the fifth or final stage of death may be reached in five minutes ; in others, this stage may be protracted to twelve or in some to even twenty minutes. The -first stage following immersion is that of apnoea, the respiratory movements being inhibited. In the second stage, wliich commences about the end of the first minute of immersion, the respiratory centres are stimulated by the excess of COg in the blood ; involimtary respiratory movements are made, with the result that water, notwithstanding reflex spasm of the glottis, is drawn into the air-passages and lungs. Not all the water inhaled is expelled again ; some of it enters the dorsal and deeper parts of the limgs to replace the air forced out by the respiratory movements. In this stage, which is passed through in the second and third minutes following immersion, a remarkable redistribution of the air- content of the lungs takes place ; the air is drawn from the dorsal