TUMOURS 356 Paget's test is useful in this connexion: A hard, solid tumour is hardest at its thickest part; a hard fluid swelling is least hard at its central, thickest part. Confusion, indeed, arises so often between fliiid and solid swellings—as, for instance, between a sarcoma and a chronic abscess—that the surgeon will be wise to adopt every method of examination for the presence of fluid; and the examination of swell- ings, which may possibly contain clear fluid, for translucency is too often neglected. In examining the consistence of a tumour, pulsation is occasion- ally observed, and may sometimes be of invaluable assistance, as, for instance, in distinguishing a vascular tumour of a bone from a chronic abscess. Often the pulsation is so slight that it is only detected when the examination is especially directed to it. It can sometimes be elicited, even when not palpable, by holding the small end of a wooden stethoscope steadily and firmly on the surface of the tumour and noticing the movements of the opposite end of the instrument. A hruit is occasionally audible. The pulsation transmitted to a tumour which lies in the immediate neighbourhood of a large artery must, of course, be carefully distinguished from the true pulsation of the tumour itself. The relation of the tumour to the surrounding tissues must carefully be noted, especially as concerns its independent mohilitij. The determination of the fact that a tumour can be moved indepen- dently of the tissues surrounding it is often of great importance as a diagnostic sign ; the reverse is equally true, and evidence that a growth has become fixed to the surrounding parts may be a physical sign of great moment. Mobility may, however, be misleading, for it may occur witJi, and not indefendently of, the surrounding structures. For instance, a tumour of the neck which has already involved the sterno-mastoid and even the large vessels may, in certain positions of the head, possess a considerable degree of mobihty. It is often important to notice whether a movable tumour can be moved equally freely in all directions. In the case of a superficially situated tumour, it is important to note the condition of the overlying skin, especially its colour, the pre- sence of enlarged veins, the presence of oedema, and also to observe whether the skin can be raised freely from the surface of the tumour or is more or less adherent to it. "When a tumour has actually involved a cutaneous or mucous surface, ulceration is common, and a careful examination of the ulcer is likely to prove of valuable assistance in diagnosis. The character of the surface, borders, and base must be accurately noted, as well as that of the discharge. The appearance of the ulcerated surface of a tumour may be so modified by secondary inflammatory changes that its true nature may be obscured; and