ANGIOMA 411 The right half of the tongue was removed by Barker from a man aged 34, in whom an enlargement of the part had existed since boyhood, and who had suft'ered repeated attacks of hfemorrhage resulting in intense ana?mia. The bleeding occurred from a grouj^ of enlarged pajjilhe, but the whole of the right half of the tongue was soft and swollen. The right lingual artery and its branches were enlarged and tortuous, and beneath the mucous membrane was a plexus of dilated capillaries from which loops extended into the papilla?. Angioma of the rectum.—Several cases of cavernous angioma of tlie mucous mcmhiain', oi IIk; rectum are on record. In one, brought before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society by Barker in 1883, a man aged 45 had suffered since boyhood from attacks of rectal haemorrhage, which gradually increased in severity and eventually proved fatal. Examination of the rectum during life revealed the presence of three shallow ulcers, from which blood continuously oozed, and a peculiar purple inottling of the surrounding mucous membrane. The tumour, w^hich had the typical structure of a cavernous ;'.ngioma, involved the mucous and submucous layers of the left and anterior aspects of tlie hnwd for a distance of 8'5 cm. Angioma of bones.—Many cases formerly described as erectile tumours of bone were undoubtedly pulsating myelomas and sai'comas, and although a few examples of true angioma are on record they are extremely rare. Occasionally a nsevus of the overlying soft parts may be intimately connected with and even involve the sulijacent osseous tissue. In 1841, Liston recorded an extraordinary case of a large vascular tumour growing in connexion with tlie upper jaw, the specimen being preserved in University College Hospital Museum. The tumour, which has the typical structure of a cavernous angioma, grew from the posterior surface of the maxilla, tilling the spheno- maxillary and lower part of the temporal fossa> and projecting into the pharynx and mouth. Frequent attacks of hsemorrhage occurred from the growth, and on excising the maxilla the whole of the lolnilated tumour came away with it. Angioma of muscle.—Cavernous angioma has been met with in muscles, chiefly tlujse of the limbs, and may occur also in the deep planes of connective tissue. Fig. 72 shows such a tumour, removed by C'hristojjher Heath from the temjDoral fossa, where it lay beneath the temporal muscle. In view^ of the fact that the tumour occurred in an adult who had only been aware of its existence for a comparatively short time, it is not surprising that its true nature was not suspected until it had been removed. Angioma of synovial membrane.—Attention has been called by Eve ti> the cceasidual cccurrence of angiomatous growths in connexion with tlie synovial membrane of joints, and the close resem