GANGRENE FROM DEFECTIVE INNERVATION 225 buzziug in the ears, blurred vision, numbness, tingling, and liyper- gestliesia are accompanied by attacks of diarrhoea and vomiting; later, spasm of the muscular arterioles causes painful burning cramps, defective circulation, and coldness of the extremities. At this stage gangrene due to perij^heral thrombosis is very apt to occur. It is iisually of the dry type, often bilateral, generally affects the toes and feet, although the fingers, nose, and ears may be attacked. The process is so slow that one or two years may elapse before the dead part separates, while the amount lost varies from a digit to the greater portion of an extremity. Treatment.—The premonitory symptoms, if recognized, may be relieved and the gangrene prevented by cutting off the supply of infected bread, by administering large quantities of coffee, and by applymg warmth and friction to the affected extremities. When gangrene actually occurs, expectant treatment should be adopted, surgical interference being deferred until a definite line of demarcation has formed. II. GANGRENE DUE TO DEFECTIVE INNERVATION Disorders of the nervous system predispose to, or actually cause, gangrene, without any co-existing vascular disease, as is clearly demonstrated by Raynaud's gangrene, ansesthetic leprosy, and the occurrence of sloughing on the paralysed side in cases of hemiplegia, even though the patient has been laid upon the unaffected side and every precaution has been taken to prevent pressure and microbic infection. But undoubtedly, in the majority of cases, defective inner- vation onl}^ acts as a predisposing cause of gangrene by modifying the nutrition of the part, and interfering with the defensive proper- ties of the tissues against bacterial infection, thereby allowing pres- sure, or thermal and chemical agents, to act as the exciting cause. Well-known examples of this type are the bed-sores and splint-sores that form on paralysed parts as the result of continued pressure, the perforating idcer of the foot that develops (again as the result of pressure) in tabes dorsalis, and the painless whitlows and extensive burns that cccur in syringo-myelia. Excej)t Raynaud's disease and anaesthetic leprosy, the form of gangrene that occurs in these cases is always moist, generally septic, and spreads rapidly if extension commences. Treatment.—A paralysed limb should always be kept warm, and all sources of pressure avoided or removed. Should sloughing occur, it must be treated like a bed-sore (p. 217). If spreading moist gangrene affects an extremity, an amputation well above its limit is clearly indicated, p