125 NON VASCULAR ARI-AS cor[)USclcs—are found llatteiu'il lictwccii these layers. Tlie cluiunels communicate freely witli one another and with the pcii- j)heral lymphatics of the cornea. If the injury is very .sliuht, none of the ordinary ])henomena of infhimmatiou may he induced, and repair may he effected merely i)v a prnlil'eration of the corneal corpuscles. If the jjrocess i.s caicfulh' watched, the corneal corpuscles at the centre of the injured area are .seen to undci'uo dejienerativc and destructive chan<ies, while those near the periphery become swollen anil may show proliferative chan<>es. 'J"he proliferation, however, is mainly seen in the peripheral healthy corpuscles. These .send offshoots into the necro.sed zone, and <;radu- ally brinii' about complete repair of the damaged area. Witii nu)re extensive damage all the ordinary inflammatory jdienomena- may lie developed, some with greater intensity than otheis. An area of opacity is formed with the damaged focus for its centre, this opacity being largel\' due lo the accumulation of polymor|)honuclear leuco- cytes ami to the swelling of the corneal tissue brought about by the ind)il)ition of fluid which has transuded from the ves.sels. The ves.sels :it the jieripliery of the cornea liecome dilated and engorged with blood, and from these ve.s.sels, as well as from the dilated conjunctival vessels, leucocytes pass out in considerable numbers and migrate, ou the surface of the conjunctiva and between the fibrous lamina', to the damaged area. The corneal corpuscles show well-marked proli- ferative changes, and in the cellular exudate whicii is produced these corpuscles may appear as mononucleated phagocytes, which are indis- tinguishable fr(un other mononucleated cells derived from the blood- stream or from the fixed tissue cells—e.g. endothelium—of the part. If the inflammation lasts for four or ffve days, numerous small round cells, reseml)ling lymphocytes, are seen in the exudate. According to Ada mi, these are cells which have migrated from the sheaths of lymphoid tissue that surround the vessels. If the inflammation con- tinues for long jH'riods, new vessels are formed liy l)U(hling from the pre-existing peripheral vessels, and these pass into the non-vascular cornea, right uj) to the edge of the inflamed area, which usually at this stage has l)ecome an ulcer. Healing takes place, and a white opa(|ue fibrous cicatrix may always mark the site of the inflamma- tion. \'e)'y commonly, too. the newly ft)rmed vessels in the cornea do not completelv ilisappear iluring the healing processes, and nuiy be iibserved in nuin for years afterwards. IM'l.AAlM \TH)N IN i.^MI'IKUIt TlSSrK The swelling and acute tenderness of glands as a result of septic ab-orption from a wound is one of the most familiar conditions with which the surgeon has to deal. Lymphatic tissue appears to be