TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS: MERCURY 757 and antemia. The mercury then has to be intermitted, and the syphilis gets a chance to re-establish itself. (3) Uncertainty as to regularity of administration owing to forget fulness on the part of the patient or to his deliberate neglect when the symptoms have disappeared. This is my strongest objection to this method. Technique of the ingestion method.—Many prepara- tions are in use. 1. Proto-iodide and sublimate have proved the best and most reliable of all mercurial remedies given internally. Perchloride of mercury (corrosive sublimate) has been and is the most popular in England. Among other celebrated preparations of which it is the basis, Dupuytren's pill is perhaps the most famous. The formula is as follows :— Perchloride of mercury . . . . eg. i (gr. Ext. of opium . . . . . . eg. ii (gr. J). Ext. of guaiacum . . . . . eg. iv (gr. f). It also enters into a very celebrated French preparation which is still extensively used in that country, viz. van Svvieten's liquor :— Perchloride of mercury ..... grm. 1. Alcohol (90 per cent.)" gnu. 100. Distilled water ...... grm. 900. The strength is 1 in 1,000, so that each tablespoon contains exactly 11 eg. of corrosive sublimate. This preparation ought to be taken well diluted, and is best given in milk. Van Swieten's liquor has not the same formula in all countries. Thus, the French liquor is stronger than that of the Spanish Phar- macopoeia, and weaker than the English. Sublimate also forms the basis of various other preparations, e.g. Hoffmann's pill, which is composed of sublimate, distilled water, and bread-crumbs ; and Chomel's pill, consisting of equal parts of sublimate and extract of opium (| eg. in each pill). Fournier suggests the following modification of Dupuytren's pill as containing less opium:— Perchloride of mercury) . , ... , ... -c. , c . •' , . . aa Cii. 1 (wr. {■) for each pill. Ext. of opmm • ^ \o b/ i These pills are best taken during or before meals. Proto-iodide of mercury is a salt of greenish-yellow colour, chang- ing with the light, almost insoluble in water, and insoluble in alcohol. It was introduced into therapeutics by Biett, and popularized by Ricord, whose pill contains .}^^ grm. of the proto-iodide and grm. of extract of opium. In France the proto-iodide is the more popular, whereas the per-