ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 752 advised to use frequently some mouth-wash, such as chlorate of potash (gr. v to the ounce) or, better :— 1. Plumbi acetatis 5!. I 2. Aluminis sulph. 5!. Aquam ad 3 V. | Aquam ad 3 V. Nos. 1 and 2 to be mixed and filtered. Or the gums may be painted three times a day with peroxide of hydrogen or with perhydrol, which is a non-irritating 50 per cent, solution of hydrogen peroxide. Another excellent application in cases showing a tendency to pyorrhoea is powdered copper sulphate, applied to the roots of the teeth with a pointed stick or match. Should stomatitis of any severity occur, mercury must be stopped, saline aperients freely administered, and a mixture of chlorate of potash (gr. xv to §i) given three times a day. Sweating should be induced by means of hot-air or Turkish baths, and the patient kept as much as possible in the open air. In such cases, the greatest attention must be paid to the gums and teeth, which ought to be painted frequently during the day with either perhydrol, solu- tions of chromic acid, or sulphate of copper. Gastro-intestinal complications consist of pains in the stomach, colic, and diarrhoea ; later on, of dyspepsia and loss of appetite. Diarrhoea, although at first slight, may at times become very severe and assume dysenteric characters, with the passage of blood, slime, and mucus. A fatal result may follow. The gastro- intestinal disturbance is followed by ansemia, want of appetite, and emaciation. Mercurial treatment should he commenced immediately the disease lias been diagnosed, and, if cure rather than mere palliation be desired, persisted in until long after all signs have disappeared. \ METHODS OF ADMINISTERING MERCURY Mercury may be introduced into the system by various methods, the principal being :— 1. By inunction. 2. By ingestion. 3. By intramuscular injection. It may be also administered by intravenous injection, by fumi- gation, by suppositories, or by inhalation with the aid of Wallender's bag. The points to be considered in a choice of method are— Convenience to the patient. Suitability to prolonged use. Regularity of treatment. Rapidity of action in urgent cases.