TUMOURS 354 gland, whilst a malignant growtli arising in the glandular ej^ithelium may lose, more or less completely, this feature, and the epithelium may proliferate in a manner entirely unnatural to the gland. On the other hand, the glandular structure may be well preserved, and it may be difficult, in the absence of a clinical history, to differentiate the tumour from a simple adenoma. In the histologica,l examination of a tumour, with a view to deciding upon its simple or malignant nature, the most valuable information is obtained by observing the appearances pre- sented by the spreading edge of the growth rather than by confining the attention to the details of structure. The microscopic section should, if possible, include not only the tumour, but also the tissues surrounding it, and the pathologist should be very cautious of express- ing a final opinion from the examination of a fragment removed from the centre of the growth. The terms " typical " and " atypical," as applied to simple and malignant growths respectively, must be used with some reserve, for, as we have said, the tendency of malignant growths to lose the normal type of the part in which they originate varies greatly. For instance, certain malignant tumours of the thyroid retain in a striking degree the typical structure of the normal gland, and this may be observed not only in the primary tumour, but also in the metastases. In a classification based upon their structure the following are the tumours which can be recognized as distinct types :— Lipoma Fibroma . Myxoma . Glioma Chondroma Osteoma . Myeloma . Odontoma Myoma Neuroma . Lymphoma Angioma . Endothelioma Papilloma Adenoma . Carcinoma Sarcoma . Teratoma A tumour composed of adipose tissue. ,, ,, fibrous tissue. ,, mucous tissue. ,, ,, neuroglia. ,, ,, cartilage. ,, ,, bone. ., red marrow. ,, ,, dental tissue. ,, muscular tissue. ,, ., nervous tissue. ,, .. lymphoid tissue. ., blood-or lymph-vessels. ., ,, endothelium. ,, having the structure of a papilla. ,, ,, ., a secreting gland. A malignant epithelial growth. ,, connective-tissue growth. A tumour composed of tissues so arranged as to bear a more or less marked resemblance to a foetal part or organ.