ANTITOXIC SERUMS 95 ever side is more convenient to the operator. Raise the head sliglitly on a pillow. Bend the knees and flex the thisihs on the abdomen so that the vertebral column is well arched, and hold the patient firmly in this position. The site of operation for lumbar puncture is a 10 cm. (4 inches) circle of the skin of the back, having its centre over the spinous process of the fourth lumbar vertebra. This central point can be identified by the simple method of counting the vertebrae down- wards, or by the help of a line joining the highest points of the iliac crests—which crosses the fourth lumbar vertebra. Adjust either the bed or the light so that the field of operation is well lighted. The skin over the area already indicated is prepared as was the bend of the elbow for the intravenous injection. The needle is introduced into the interspace between the third and fourth lumbar vertebra; and pushed on between the laminas into the spinal canal, and at least 10 c.c. of fluid collected in the syringe. The syringe is now detached from the needle and put on one side, while the syringe full of serum is adjusted to the needle already in situ and the serum slowly injected, the volume of the serum injected corresponding to that of cerebro- spinal fluid removed from the canal. ANTITOXIC SERUMS Diphtheria.—Antidiphtheria serum is standardized experimen- tally accordmg to the number of units of antitoxin contained in each cubic centimetre of the serum, the unit of antitoxin being that smallest quantity which, when mixed with 100 lethal doses of dij^htheria toxin and injected into a guinea-pig, will prevent the appearance of any toxic symptoms ; a combination occurring in the animal's tissues between the toxin and antitoxin in such a way that the poisonous effects of the former are completely neutralized. The same pheno- menon obtains in the human body, but as it is impossible to estimate the amount of toxin that has already gained access to the tissues in the patient infected naturally, it follows that one must be prepared to use a large excess of antitoxin in order to neutralize not only the poison already formed, but also that which is in process of formation by the living diphtheria bacilli remaining in the throat; for, the effect of the serum being antitoxic only, it does not act directly injuriously upon the infecting organisms. According to the authors of the previous article, in using antitoxin as a therapeutic agent in diphtheria, not less tlian 4,000 units should be administered in a single dose, while in severe cases several times this amount may have to be given, and the dose repeated at frequent intervals until definite imj^rove- ment begins to take place, t agree with them that there is still a tendency, as in the case of tetanus antitoxin, to administer the remedy in insufficient amounts, so far as concerns its therapeutic