BURNS AND SCALDS 292 montlis of tlie year. Adult males are generally burnt or scalded at their work, by gas or boiler explosions, or by contact vnth molten metals ; whereas, in tlie case of women and of cliildren, it is usually some article of clothing that catches fire. Classification.—Many difEerent classifications have been adopted from time to time. American and German writers usually consider burns in three degrees. In France and in this country Dupuytren's method of classification in six degrees, according to depth, is usually adopted, and will be followed here. The first degree is characterized by an erythema of the skin of quite a superficial and evanescent nature. The second degree is associated with the formation of vesicles filled with serum, the epidermis being raised from the skin by the cutaneous inflammation. In the third degree, part of the thickness of the papillary layer of the skin is destroyed. The fourth degree indicates complete destruction and disorganiza- tion of the dermis down to the subcutaneous cellular tissue. In the fifth degree there is a charring of all the superficial soft parts, including more or less muscle, down towards the bone. The sixth degree is characterized by complete carbonization of the biu'nt part. Most cases present several different degrees combined, but a hmn is classified according to its most severely damaged portion. It is fre- quently noticed that a burn which at first appears to be of the third degree, eventually tm-ns out to be also partly of the fourth degree. Clinical aspects. Local effects.—In burns of the first degree the skin is merely scorched and there is no destruction of tissue. There is a dilatation of the blood-vessels, causing redness; the part is pain- ful and often somewhat cedematous. After some hours, or at most a day or two, there is a return to normal, with a little superficial desquamation of the epidermis. In the second degree, in addition to the hypersemia of the burnt part, there are blisters, containing, as a rule, a clear yellowish senmi. When these are opened the papillary layer of the skin is exposed beneath the raised epidermis in bright-red patches, wliich are acutely tender. Healing, however, is rapid and without scarring, though some pig- mentation may remain. In the third degree the epidermis and papillary layer of the skin are transformed by heat into dull-yellowish or brown patches, insensitive to light touch. The pain, though considerable at first, soon passes off, only to return again, to some extent, a few days later, when the sloughs begin to separate. Healing is by granulation, but the sj)read of young epithelium is