OSTEOMA 393 femur, the upper end of tlie tibia, and the upper end of the liumerus. In the first two situations the tumour is more usually situated on the internal aspect of the bone. They are not, however, confined to the long bones, but are met with in the neighbourhood of epij^hyses elsewhere, such as the vertebral border of the scapula and the crest of the ilium. The tumours are more common in boys than in girls, and are some- times hereditary. They are often multiple. The bones from which they grow are usually otherwise normal, but sometimes impairment of growth or irregular deformity of the bone has been observed, and in some cases of multiple osteomas the bones present evidences of rickets. Gossage and Carling have collected records of 67 families in which more than one member was the subject of multiple car- tilaginous exostoses. In these families 199 males and 89 females were affected ; in several instances the condition was transmitted through females who were themselves unaffected. A spongy exostosis is rarely productive of any sym^^toms other than the presence of the tumour. Pain is exceptional, but some inter- ference with the free use of the part may occur if the tumour is so situated, as in the neighbourhood of the knee, that the adjacent tendons are displaced. In a case under the care of Bilton Pollard a spongy exostosis growing from the ventral surface of the scapula near the vertebral border in a young girl so raised the bone from the chest wall as to suggest at first sight the deformity so commonly met with in latero-rotatory curvatiu'e of the spine. An exostosis of the pelvis has been known to cause insuj^erable obstruction to normal delivery. The subungual exostosis deserves special mention. It is most common on the dorsal surface of the distal phalanx of the great toe, and is said to be most frequently met with in females. It causes intense jaain as it jjrojects upwards beneath the edge of the nail. The latter becomes brittle and breaks away, exposing the tumour, still covered by the nail matrix. Ulceration is then likely to occur, and the growth of exuberant granulations obscures the small bony tumour beneath. The structure of the tumour is identical with that of other cancellous exostoses. It is very rare, except on the great toe, but has been seen on the fingers, where, in one case, the pain caused by piano-playing first drew attention to the presence of the tumour. The removal of a spongy exostosis presents no sj^ecial difficulties, but it is essential that no part of the cartilaginous covering be left; The subungual exostosis can be removed after avulsion of the nail, and amputation of the toe is very rarely necessary. Compact osteoma.—This variety of bony tumour, which, on account of its extreme density, is known as the " ivory exostosis," usually occurs in situations which indicate its origin independently of