ACQUIRED SYPHILIS By colonel F. J. LAMBKIN, R.A.M.C. Microbiology.—In 1905 the presence in syphilitic secretions and lesions of a, new organism, the Spirochcete pallida {Treponema palliduDi), was demonstrated by Schaudinn and eventually confirmed by Metch- nikof!, Levaditi, and other bacteriologists. S. pallida was first seen by iSchaudinn in some papules round the vulva of a woman who was suffering from a hard chancre in the same region. From furtlier research Schaudinn was able to show that in tlie ■genital organs two varieties of spirilla-like organisms are to be found. One of these may be seen in non-syphilitic as well as in syphilitic cases, whereas the other is only present in definitely syphilitic lesions. The former, Spirochcete refrmgens, is larger than the *S'. pallida, and its spiral turns are fewer and mucli better marked ; it is easily stained by any method, especially by Giemsa's, while *S'. pallida stains with much difficulty. Schaudinn and Hoffmann were able to prove that jS. pallida is to be found only in sypliilitic affections ; further, that it is to be met witli not only on the surface of syphilitic primary papules and cliancres, but also in the deep tissues of the enlarged syphilitic glands. At first this organism was detected only in primary and secondary lesions of the genital organs ; but with improved technique it was soon demonstrated in secondary lesions far removed from these organs—i.e. in tlie blood, lymph, lymphatic vessels and glands ; also in the saliva and urine of syphilitic patients ; and, finally, it was found by Spitza in gummata, and also by Schaudinn in the peripheral laver of a gumma of the liver of a svphilitic <'hild. In the vascular system Renter found these organisms in sections of the aorta of an old syphilitic who had dropped dead. This obser- vation was confirmed by Schaudinn, and it soon became an established lact that the specific organism is present in the primary, secondary, and tertiary lesions of sypliilis. As regards hereditary syphilis, the organisms were found in almost all the tissues of new-born children affected with the disease,