722 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS surface, of a rose-red ratlier than a deep-red tint, and a medium degree of induration at the base. Sometimes, however, these chancres assume the form of fissures, Avith pale, smooth margins, pale-red surfaces, and resistant bases. (b) When situated ivitliin the anus the chancre, under speculum examination, looks like a deep erosion or ulceration, with more or less smooth surface. Induration of its base may exist. Chancre of groin.—This chancre may occur a priori from direct inoculation—in which case it will appear like an indurated chancre of the general integument—or as a contagion secondary to an open bubo. Should an open bubo become infected with syphilitic virus, the chancre will generally attack one or both lips of the wound. The latter remains gaping, and a sore or nodule appears on one of the lips. This slowly enlarges until an ulcer is formed, which soon becomes planted on a well-marked, indurated base. Auto-inoculation.—It was formerly believed that the chancre was never auto-inoculable. It is now an established fact that during at least the first fortnight of its existence it is auto-inoculable— that is, capable of reproducing a like lesion if inoculated in some other part of the body. Mercurialization of the patient renders this impossible. Complications of chancre.—1. A chancre may be the seat of either simple or septic inflammation, the former generally induced by the employment of caustics or other strong applications, the latter by absorption of micro-organisms. The chancre becomes red and painful, and neighbouring glands may inflame and suppurate. 2. Phagedaena may be caused by severe inflammation of a chancre, the engorgement being sufficient to cause gangrene. Among the factors which influence the onset of phagedsena are : (a) indi- vidual predisposition on the part of the patient; (b) any cause of lowered vitality, such as alcoholism, malaria, or starvation ; (c) infec- tion from an individual of different race ; (d) change of residence from a temperate to a hot climate. It may attack any chancre at any period. It is generally limited to the indurated mass, but may spread beyond it into adjoining tissues, such as the scrotum. When it attacks the urethra it may cause hsemorrhage, perforation, and stricture of the canal. 3. Chancroid inflammation.—The chancroid virus may be implanted simultaneously with or later than the syphilitic. In either case the character of the syphilitic chancre will be modified in appearance. Sometimes the chancroid heals up before the syphilitic virus takes effect, but as a rule it persists, the spreading, inflamed, punched-out-looking ulcer becoming gradually enveloped in indura- tion as the full local development of the syphilitic lesion is reached.