VALUE OF BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATION 615 BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD If microscopical examination of the blood is not sufficiently attended to, it may be said that the bacteriological examination is almost entirely neglected by many surgeons, and yet in many cases its value can hardly be over-estimated. The withdrawal of the blood should be treated as a surgical operation, and thorough cleanliness of the skin, the syringe, etc., is necessarily of supreme importance. From 10 to 20 c.c. of blood should be withdrawn from the vein chosen, which is usually the median basilic or cephalic. In very obese jjeople it may be neces- sary to incise the skin ; but this should, if possible, be avoided. Where the vein is not prominent, pressure on it above tlie point of puncture may make it sufficiently evident. In young children it is often a great advantage to bandage the arm from the fingers upwards i-fter the upper bandage has been apphed. The blood, immediately it is withdrawn, sliould be distributed in broth or in melted gelatin and tubes, or in tubes or flasks of media specially suited to the organism whose presence is suspected. The amount of blood in each tube or flask varies, in relation to the quantity of medium, from equal parts to 1 in 5 or 1 in 100. As a general rule, the more feebly growing organisms require a greater quantity of blood, but too much blood may inhibit the growth of organisms. After an incubation period of twenty-four hours, examination of the cultures may be undertaken in various ways, the methods differing, of course, for different organisms {see under Surgical Bacteriology, pp. 1-89). The value of blood cultures.—In cases of general infec- tion with pyogenetic organisms, in ostoo-myelitis, etc., the strepto- cocci or the staphylococci may usually be obtained in pure culture. Typhoid bacilli have been demonstrated in the blood in a consider- able proportion of cases before even the Widal test has been positive. Pneumococcal infections may show the presence of the organism in the blood. This information is important for diagnostic purposes, and tlie above method of procedure is often the easiest and most certain way of getting a culture for the preparation of a vaccine. Agglutination phenomena.—The Durham-Grlinbaum, or, as It is more commonly calletl, the Widal, reaction for typhoid fever has already been described (p. 43). Its importance in the diagnosis of typhoid fever is unquestioned. This same reaction, however, has a much wider application, and has now been applied to various organisms with more or less definite results. Considerable aid from the reaction is given in the diagnosis of dysentery, para- typhoid and paracolon infections, Malta fever, etc.