NITROUS-OXIDE—ETHYL-CHLORIDE 669 mixture of 98 per cent, nitrous-oxide and 2 per cent, oxygen will now be inhaled. After four breaths the indicator should be advanced to 3, and by the end of a minute it should be at 6. Auassthesia is not marked by any violent stertor, such as is heard with nitrous-oxide alone. A gentle snore, accom- panied by absence of conjunctival reflex, flac- cidity of muscles, and a fixed or slowly oscillating condition of the globes of the eye, is the usual sign of anaesthesia. The pupils are generally of moderate size. Excitement, if present, indicates that oxygen is being too freely used, and the indicator will then be pushed back towards the N.,0 mark. On the other hand, blueness or jactitation calls for more oxygen, and in the course of prolonged operations as much as 20 per cent, may be needed, 10 per cent, being an amount com- monly required. In order to permit the performance of a moderately long operation within the mouth, such as extraction of many teeth, under nitrous-oxide ansesthesia, apparatus has been devised for the administration of " gas," and also of " gas " and oxygen, through the nose. The use of this, however, is only occasion- ally desirable, requires special practice, and can always be well replaced by ether antes- thesia. Space, therefore, will not be given here to a description of the nasal administra- tion of nitrous-oxide. ETHYL-CHLORIDE Ethyl-chloride (Cl,HjCl) is supplied in her- metically sealed glass tubes, from which it is liberated in the form of a spray by means of sprmg taps of various kinds (Fig. L'^6). It is inflammable and not to be used near a naked flame ; it must be pure, and consequently that sold for local ansesthetic purposes is not usually fitted for producing general antesthesia ; and it should be used only as a preliminary to other anaesthetics {see pp. 66-5 and 671), or else for such operations as can be done in a few minutes after the inhalation of a dose sufficient to produce anaesthesia. Fig. 1,S().—Ethyl- chloride tube.