840 COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRHCEA cord is involved in the inflammation (fmiiculitis). The acute attack readies its height in from four to five days, and then soon begins to decline. The effusion into the tunica vaginalis becomes absorbed, and so considerably reduces the size of the scrotal swelling. The swollen gland and epididymis slowly resume their natural size, though many weeks, or even months, may pass before this is completely effected. During the acute stage of the disease the urethral secretion greatly diminishes, so that the patient no longer notices its presence. This fact, though well laiown, is a constant trap to the medical student, who diagnoses traumatic orchitis because the urethra is free from discharge. As the acuteness of the epididymitis subsides, the urethral secretion reappears. Diagnosis.—It is but rarely that any difficulty is experienced in making tlie diagnosis of gonorrhoeal epididymitis. The acuteness of the early symptoms distinguishes it from syphilitic or tubercular lesions elsewhere, and the character of the swelling is different; for the enlargement of the gland and epididymis in urethritis is of a smooth and uniform nature, while the tubercular affection is generally limited to the epididymis and is nodular in character. Syphilis usually attacks the organ proper, and is seldom confined to the epididymis. Perhaps the most frequent mistake made in diagnosis is the result of accepting naively the patient's statement that the swelling is due to a loiock or strain. All doubt as to the origin of the inflammation is generally settled at once by directing the patient to make water, preferably into two glasses, when the presence of pus, threads, or mucus in the urine will at once proclaim its true nature. Treatment.-—A point of primary importance to be observed at the onset of epididymitis is that all local treatment of the urethritis must be at once suspended. While this complication is in its acute stage, injections or other topical applications will only aggravate the trouble. Even when the pain has gone and the sweUing is disappearing, it is a grave mistake to be in a hurry to recommence the local treat- ment. During the acute stages we must rely upon the internal administration of the balsams or, better, salicylate of soda, in order favourably to influence the urethral inflammation. Whenever practicable the patient should be kept in bed, and in any case the testicles should be supported by a suitable suspensory bandage. Under this treatment the acute symptoms generally abate within a few days. The pain and discomfort disappear, and the swelling gradually subsides. The absorption of the inflammatory products is materially hastened by gentle pressure applied to the part. At first this is best done by means of the suspensory bandage ; but later, when