132 INFLAMMATION admission in various ways, and by their irritant action, or the irritant action of their toxins, induce leucocyte emigration and the other inflammatory phenomena which have been described. Even in cases where the exciting irritant has been thermal, chemical, or mechanical, and where the destructive and reactive conditions are the result of burns, corrosive agents, or foreign bodies, the secondary results are often those which call specially for surgical intervention, and they are most frequently caused by the introduction of bacteria to the damaged area. The pathogenetic bacteria are the causal factors in the majority of cases in the human subject, but it must always be remembered that saprophytic bacteria may lodge in any wound and, though not causing any definite inflammatory reaction, may hinder the healing process. These bacteria, then, are important from the point of view of the surgeon, and it may be said that surgical anti- sepsis was largely directed to the destruction of these organisms both in the wounds and in the surroundings of the operative area. These saprophytic or putrefactive bacteria may give rise to gas- production in the tissues, and the " foul pus " which occurs in empyemas and similar suppurative conditions is generally produced by them. Further, in inflammatory conditions we have to consider the bacteria which are normally present in the skin and on mucous surfaces, and which may in special circumstances assume patho- genetic functions—e.g. some of the intense inflammatory conditions of the alimentary canal are undoubtedly due to Bacillus coli. In regard to the production of inflammation by bacteria in any given case, two main factors have to be considered—the resisting power of the individual tissues and the virulence of the organisms. It has been fii'mly established that the tissues can destroy, by virtue of the bactericidal power of their fluids as well as by the phagocytic power of their cells, considerable numbers of bacteria, and that this destruc- tion is more marked if the bacteria have a feeble resisting power. Any condition, therefore, which lowers the resisting powers of the tissues, or lessens the bactericidal activity of the body fluids, must render the individual more susceptible to attack by bacteria, and will probably intensify any inflammatory reaction which is set up. Again, it is a well- established fact, which we need not discuss here, that more intense reactions may be produced by one type of bacteria than by another; and that one form of organism may produce even in the same individual two or more different conditions—e.g. streptococci may produce spreading inflammatory conditions or localized abscess- formation or necrosis. Traumatic.—Under this term may be included mechanical, thermal, and chemical causes, as all of these act as direct irritants upon