76 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY Pseudo-diphtheria bacillus (Hoffmann's bacillus). —This bacillus, observed by Loffler in 1887, and fully described and cultivated by Hoffmann in 1888, is only of importance in that it may sometimes be mistaken for the diphtheria bacillus. It is often found in the throats of healthy persons as well as in association with diseased conditions. The main points of difference which suffice to distinguish it from the true diphtheria bacillus may be enumerated as follows :— It grows readily on the same media as the diphtheria bacillus, but produces a more luxuriant, whiter (with ultimately a yellowish tinge), and more opaque growth. It also grows in gelatin even at 18° C. In bouillon it produces no acidity at any period of its growth. Its cultures are non-virulent for guinea-pigs. Morphologically it is somewhat shorter and thicker, and more uniformly and deeply staining, than the diphtheria bacillus, and ex- hibits less variety of form and size. When stained by Bie's or Neisser's method it does not usually present the Ernst-Babes granules, and with the ordinary stains the beading or granulation of its protoplasm is much less marked than in the case of true diphtheria. It is, of course. Gram-positive. Where the diagnosis otherwiss remains in doubt a guinea-pig should be inoculated subcutaneously. Bacillus influenzae—This bacillus was discovered almost simultaneously by Pfeiffer, Kitasato, and Canon, in 1892. It was first cultivated on artificial media by Pfeiffer, to whom we chiefly owe the exact investigation of the organism. The bacillus is of surgical interest as an occasional cause of otitis media, of suppurative meningitis, of appendicitis, and of an acute urethritis closely simulating gonorrhoea. It is a tiny rod measuring from 0*5 /i to 1 or 1'5 /u. in length by about 0'2 to O'S /u. in breadth, quite straight, with conical blunt ends, and usually arranged in pairs which are aggregated together into larger or smaller masses. It is not motile, and has no flagella. It does not form spores. It stains fairly well though somewhat faintly with the ordinary basic anihne dyes, and shows a tendency to exhibit polar staining. It is Gram-negative. It does not grow on the ordinary media unless either blood or haemoglobin has been added. It is strictly aerobic. Grown on the surface of blood-agar at 37° C, it produces in about 24 hours tiny discrete, greyish, circular colonies like drops of dew. The colonies do not fuse, and never exceed the size of a pin's head. The bacillus does not grow below 25° C, and its maximum limit