DISTRIBUTION OF BACTERIA IN NATURE 23 ing every possible precaution to secure pure air in his operating theatre, may inadvertently infect the site of operation from his own mouth i 1 speaking, since quite healthy persons frequently carry in tlieir mouth organisms which may be quite virulent to another individual (e.g. streptococcus, pneumoeoccus, staphylococcus, etc.). As micro-organisms suspended in the air are subjected to continued drying, the bacteria of chief importance from the standpoint of aerial infection (apart from the special case of salivary infection already dealt with) are those which can resist the eft'ects of drying most success- fully. Such resistance is dependent either on particular characters of the bacterial protoplasm or envelope (cf. B. tuberculosis, p. I'J), or on the faculty of forming spores (cf. B. anthracis, p. 59). The bacteria found in water are of relatively small importance in surgery, as the majority of them are harmless saprophytes, and those pathogenetic forms which do occur from time to time belong chiefly to the less resistant varieties, and are easily destroyed by a few minutes' boiling. They reach the water by being washed down from the soil by rain, b}^ the discharge of sewage into rivers, and the like. Here they are exposed to the struggle for existence with the natural bacterial flora of the water, as well as to other harmful influences, such as the destructive action of sunlight, which indeed is one of the chief factors in the so-called self-cleansing of rivers. Sea-water may be regarded as being practically free from bacteria which are pathogenetic for man, as soon, at any rate, as open water is reached. But near the shore, especially in bays and at the mouths of rivers, there may be almost as many pathogenetic micro-organisms as in the water of a dirty river itself. Thus, in the Bay of Naples, for example, the B. typhosus among others has been met with. In soil a great number of micro-organisms are to be found, and among them are various pathogenetic forms, some of which, for example the B. tetani and the B. redematis maligni, find their natural habitat in the surface layers of cultivated ground. Others which do not natur- ally belong to the flora of the soil can exist in it for longer or shorter periods, especially if they belong to the spore-forming bacteria (e.g. B. anthracis). Besides these, where the soil has been contaminated by the excretions or dead bodies of animals or man almost all the pathogenetic bacterix may be met with, and may occasion infection under suitable conditions. The bacteria found in soil are consequently of great importance in surgical pathology, not only from their number, and the ease with which many of them may infect the body, as for example B. tuberculosis, B. typhosus, the pathogenetic cocci and B. dipiitherirp. but also because they include some of the most virulent and most resistant forms, namely, the anaerobic organisms of inalignant o.xlema and tetanus.