NEUROMA 429 " neuroma" has been extended to tumours on nerves, instead of being reserved for tiisoe tumours of which nerve tissue forms an essential feature. Alexis Thomson, in 1900, was able to collect five authenticated cases of true neuroma, and all the tumours contained ganglion cells as well as medullated and non-medullated nerve fibres. The view that these tumours originated in the sym- pathetic system is supjjorted by the pre- sence of large unipolar nerve-cells, the predominance of non-medullated fibres, and the delicate structure of these fibres (Fig. 86). In Knauss's case, a girl aged 8, mul- tiple subcutaneous tumours, varying in size from a pea to a small orange, were present on the trunk and thighs, and were thought to be lipomas (Fig. 87). (Some were re- moved, and on section presented a homo- geneous, light-yellow, transi^arent appear- ance, with white fibrous streaks running irregularly through their substance. From |, the structure of the tumours, as described • ^ above, and their connexion with blood- vessels, Knauss came to the conclusion that they originated in the minute ganglia in the sympathetic fibres accompanying the blood- and lymph-vessels. Of the remaining four cases of true neuroma collected bv Alexis Thomson, one formed a large difiuse tumour of the left dorso-limibar sympa- thetic cord (Busse) ; one was a tumour as large as a man's fist lying between the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, and believed to have arisen in the suprarenal sympa- thetic plexus (M. B. Schmidt) ; one formed a tumour as large as an egg connected with Fig. 87.—Multiple neuromas. cliii., iSyS.) the left dorsal sympathetic cord (Loretz) ; and in the fifth case the tumour, wliicli was as large as a plum, was situated on the left ala of the nose—it was eucapsided, soft, and greyish-red in colour (Axel Key). The bulbous enlargements wliich form on the ends of nerves that have been accidentally wounded in tlieir continuity or divided in amputation are sometimes spoken of as "division" or "amputation