HEMOPHILIA 3^1 true hereditary bleeders never being females, but they transmit it to their sons ; and if there are several daughters in a family, all or some, or even only one, may transmit it; or the disease may intermit a generation entirely. The daughters of " bleeders " generally have large families. The sons of a bleeder-father do not usuaUy suffer from the disease, nor do they transmit it either to their sons or daughters ; but cases have been published which make it impossible to say that the disease is never transmitted directly from father to son. These cases, however, are doubtful, and belong to the past; they probably represent errors of observation, or are based on very insufficient grounds. As has been stated above, females do not suffer from the true family disease, although some authors have stated that they do, one giving the ratio of males to females as 197 to 15 or 13 to 1. Nearly all the families affected with this disease that have been traced belong to the Anglo-Saxon race, but instances in the Latin race are known, although few cases are reported in French literature. The inheritance in one South African family has been traced through eight generations. The cause of the disease is quite unknown, and there is no constant pathological anatomy, although several conditions have been described. In some cases it is stated that the aorta and the large arteries are abnormally small, so that the blood pressure is high and difficulty of arrest of hfemorrhage follows. Abnormal thinness and degeneration of the arterial walls have been stated to be the cause of the spon- taneous luTemorrliage, whilst some authors describe a defective mus- ciilar coat of the arteries, so that contraction of their walls ii slight or absent. Others, again, have looked to the composition of the blood to discover the cause of the disease, and have assumed a long coagu- lation j^eriod or have described defective coagulation due to the absence of calcium salts. None of these conditions, however, in any way explains the disease, and they are not constant in every case. In many cases the coagulation of blood is normal in time and the coagulum firm. Symptoms.—The symptoms of the disease are persistent hfemor- rhages following slight cuts or bruises or occurring sjjontaneously, and dating from birth. The bleeding continues until death occurs, or more usually imtil spontaneously arrested. Htemorrhage from the umbilical cord may occur, although it is rare, and starts shortly after severance of the cord ; it may be fatal. Vaccination is not followed by heemorrhage, but the eruption of the milk and permanent teeth is always attended with danger; removal of a tooth may lead to uncontrollable htemor- rhage. Cases in which the disease first appears in adult or in late life are probably not cases of the true family disease. The injuries that cause the bleeding are often of the most trivial type, such as the removal