WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN 289 the kidney are not of much consequence. They cause some hsematuria, which is seldom severe, and perirenal abscess or cellulitis may follow. Extraperitoneal wounds of the bladder are more serious than intra- peritoneal, on account of extravasation of urine and cellulitis. The treatment of gunshot wounds of the abdomen in war is very different from that carried out in jjeace. The circumstances of the battle-field render it more dangerous to operate than to leave the jjatients alone. The difficulties jjeculiar to surgery in the field have already been mentioned, and it is seldom that cases of abdominal injury are seen by the surgeon until the most favourable time for operating is past. More than half the jjatients recover without operation, and in some laparotomies that have been done it has been found that the intestinal injuries were already sealed by adhesions and could not be discovered until these were separated. The general rule is not to operate imless there is some special indication, but to treat abdominal cases by rest, starvation, and opium. Special indications for operation are internal htemorrhage, which will prove fatal unless promjDtly dealt with ; escape of intestinal contents from the external wounds, indicating extensive contamination of the peri- toneum, which will certainly prove fatal if left alone ; and the commencement of general peritonitis in cases that have been treated expectantly when there is just a jjossibility of saving the patient by draining the abdomen. Sword, lance, or bayonet wounds of the intestine are almost certainly fatal unless operated upon. It must be understood that the rule of non-interference applies only when the conditions for work render operation inadvisable, and that if the surgical conditions are satisfactory and the patient is seen in time, the ordinary treatment of a penetrating abdominal injury may be carried out. This must always be exceptional, and is likely to be possible only after small actions in which a few men are wounded, or when a permanent hospital is near. If laparotomy is undertaken, the principal points to be attended to are the arrest of haemorrhage, removal of blood from the peritoneal cavity, and the discovery and closing of all perforations in the stomach and intestines, or bladder. The ecchymosis surrounding wounds of the intestinal wall is a guide to finding them. Perforations must be sutured so as not to narrow the lumen of the gut. Badly damaged portions of intestine may have to be resected. Bleeding from the liver or spleen may necessitate suturing or plugging of the wounds in those organs, or even splen- ectomy. Rapid operating is of great importance, and if the patient's condition is bad it may only be possible to bring the wounded bowel to the surface and make an artificial anus. Drainage is advisable, and is especially necessary if a wound of the pancreas has been sutured. In cases operated on for general peritonitis no search for the visceral T