3i8 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES Pressure, with elevation of the part, is also used in the treatment of arterial hsemorrhage, and is useful in bleeding from the hands and feet; but few surgeons trust to this method except in the case of bleeding from small arteries. Another exception is furnished by arterial haemorrhage occurriiig in dense tissues, such as in the scalp, the female breast, or inflammatory scar tissue. Bleeding in these situations is difficult to control, as the arteries retract into the dense tissue, and it is very difficult to secure them with forceps and then to apply a liga- ture. A deep stitch passed under the vessels and securely tied is usually efficacious in arresting haemorrhage under these conditions. Haemorrhage occurring in sloughing tissue is often arrested by pres- sure ; the point will be again referred to when dealing with secondary haemorrhage. 3. Secure both ends of the severed artery.—This should be done even when haemorrhage is not occurring from the distal end of the artery at the time the wound is treated. It not infrequently happens that haemorrhage occurs from the distal end of an artery when the anastomotic circulation is established or when shock has passed off; indeed, this is the most frequent cause of intermediary haemorrhage. First-aid treatment in primary venous haemor- rhage.—The wound should be freely exposed and pressure made with the thumb directly on the bleeding-point. In the case of bleed- ing from a limb, the part should be elevated and care should be taken that there be no constriction between the wound and the trunk. A pad should be placed on the wound and a bandage carried up over the pad from the extremity of the limb. No tourniquet should be used in the first-aid treatment of venous haemorrhage. Deliberate treatment of venous haemorrhage.—This consists of picking up the vessel in the wound with ha;mostatic forceps and applying a ligature as for arterial haemorrhage ; but carefully graduated pressure can usually be relied upon to arrest venous haemor- rhage, which is only serious when it comes from the largest venous trunks or from varicose veins. Bleeding from a cerebral sinus can be arrested by carefidly packing the sinus with gauze. Treatment of air in veins.—During an operation involving danger to the great veins at the root of the neck, which are influenced by the respiration, the wound should be kept flooded with an aseptic lotion, so that, in the case of injury, fluid and not air may be sucked in. Air in veins is not necessarily dangerous, the danger depending upon (1) the amount of air entering, (2) the speed with which it enters, (3) the distance from the heart at which it enters. Directly the characteristic noise of air entering a vein is heard, the wound in the vessel should be closed and a ligature applied as