485 SARCOMA as to justify tlie name (jiant'ceUed sarcoma. Such a tumour must be carefully distinguished from a myeloma, which, although formerly included among the sarcomas, is now by most pathologists regarded as a form of benign growth (p. 400). The naked-eye characters of the round-celled, the spindle- celled, and the mixed-celled forms of sarcoma may most conveniently be considered together, for often the differences are not sufficient to enable a conclusion to be drawn as to the histological structure. A typical round-celled sarcoma is usually very soft, and the tumour substance is homogeneous and white, yellowish-white, or pinkish- white in colour. The appearance is often strildngly like that of white brain-substance, and, although a similar ap|)earance may be presented by some very soft forms of spheroidal-celled carcinoma, it is certain that in the majority of cases the " encephaloid cancer " of the older writers was a romid-celled sarcoma. A typical spindle- celled sarcoma, as, for instance, of the periosteum of a long bone, often presents a distinctly striated or fibrillated appearance in section which contrasts with the markedly homogeneous consistence of the round- celled form (Fig. 125). This appearance is explained by the arrange- ment of the spindle cells in intersecting fasciculi. Some spindle- celled sarcomas, such as those of the skin, are firm in consistence and, to the naked eye, look more like fibromas. Sarcomas of the varieties under consideration are very liable to degenerative changes, especially as the result of ha?morrhagic extra- vasation into their substance. In some instances this may be so marked that the whole tumour resembles little more than a mass of blood-clot or a blood cyst. Fatty degeneration may result in the presence of yellow areas in the tumour and may also lead to the form- ation of cysts. When a sarcoma is examined together with the sur- rounding tissues the infiltrating character of the tumour is usually sufficientl}^ obvious, for although the outline of the tumour is often sharply defined, the neighbouring tissues are inseparably connected with it. This is often strildngly seen in the relation of the nuiscles to the surface of a periostal sarcoma. It is, however, not unusual to find that aroimd the tumour there is a distinct attempt at encapsula- tion, but, unlike the capsule of a simple tumour, the fibrous layer surrounding a sarcoma is intimately adherent both to the surrounding tissues and to the tumour substance. 4. Endothelial sarcoma (malignant endothelioma). —In considering the structure and characters of the endothe- liomas, it was pointed out that it is difficult to draw a sharp line between simple tumours of this nature and certain tumours of a mahgnant tj'pe. To the latter the name malignant endothelioma" has sometimes been applied, but the designation " endothelial sarcoma "