INFLAMMATION 126 specially susceptible to the reactions wlncli are called inflammation, this being due, no doubt, to the arrest by the glands of the bacteria or their products which are being drained from the wound by the lym- phatics. Lymphatic tissue is very widely distributed througliout the body, and as a result of inflammation many definite lymphoid nodules become evident which were previously microscopic in size. These lymphatic areas, whether they are in the form of glands or not, not only act as local defenders of the body, but they also supply cells which migrate to distant parts for the purpose of attacking the invading organisms in the foci at which they have settled down. During the inflammatory and proliferative processes the glands become swollen, reddish in colour, and softer in consistence. More minute examination reveals the dilatation of vessels (hypersemia), the transudation of serum, and the emigration of leucocytes. The extent of the leucocyte invasion is not easy to determine, unless migra- tion of the polymorphonuclear leucocytes is well marked. Prolifera- tion of the cells, not only of the lymphoid tissue proper, but also of its supporting connective tissue, takes place, and, as has been already said, many of these cells may pass from the glands and migrate to any seat of injury. INFLAMMATION IN BONE The changes which occur in inflammation in bone are identical with those which occur in any of the other tissues of the body ; but the resistant character of the tissue prevents any marked exudation from occurring, so that swelling is not a pronounced feature. Pain is usually severe, this no doubt being due in part to the pressure, by the inflammatory exudate, of the nerve-endings against the resistant tissues. Pain may result from tlie action of the toxins on the nerve- endings ; and in inflammation of bone, the transudation of fluid being limited, the toxin acts with greater intensity because the flushing and diluting action of the exudate is at a minimum. TYPES OF INFLAMMATION AND CHAKACTERS OF INFLAMMATORY EXUDATES Various forms of " inflammation " have been described, and it is necessary therefore to discuss them. The exudates vary in quality and quantity according to the tissues into which they are poured, and the nature and intensity of the inflammatory agent. Thus, the exudates into serous cavities or into loose subcutaneous tissues may be very considerable in amount; while those into dense tissues may cause hardly appreciable swelling of the part. Further, the exudates may be serous, fibrinous, hsemorrhagic, or purulent, these characters being dependent on the nature of the irritant and its intensity of