ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBED ABSCESS 187 Besides the leucocytes, endothelial cells are phagocji;ic, perhaps more so than any other tissue cell. Giant cells, which are probably derived from endothelium, are also phagocytic. In supjjurations due to the gonococcus, epithelial cells share in phagocytosis. Besides the inclusion and digestion of micro-organisms, phagoc}i;es can also absorb cells which are foreign to the body, cells killed in the process of suppuration, red blood-corpuscles, foreign bodies (sponge, ligatures, etc.), and they are capable of removing small necrotic areas. The reader is referred to the section on Immunity (p. 27), where he will see that protection and recovery from infective diseases, although closely associated with phagocytosis, is not a simple matter of cell incorporation and intracorporeal digestion. All cells are important in establishing active acquired immunity. There can be no doubt that in suppurative conditions phagocytosis bears a very important part in the fight for life and eventual recovery of the patient. What that part is, in the light of present knowledge, will be found set out in the section on Immunity. All that need be said here is that phagocytosis is most markedly observed in the cells of pus ; that in the liver and spleen the micro-organisms can be seen incorporated in leucocytes quite early in the disease ; and that the same process can be seen occurring in the blood stream—a fact more noticeable in the more severe cases. iii. Anceinia is a very constant accompaniment of sujipurative processes, and no doubt is in part clue to a solution or destruction of the hfemoglobin in the red blood-corpuscles by the luemolytic sub- stances formed by micro-organisms. 2. The fluid element.—In the blood-serum, as in the pus, in cases of suppuration, the specific toxin of the invading micro-organism, the by-products of bacterial metabolism, and other poisonous substances which result from the autolysis of cells killed in the process, are present. Besides these substances the blood-serum may contain antitoxins, opsonins, agglutins, bacteriolysins, precipitins, and aggressins. Diagnosis—It must not be assumed, because a swelling contains a thick white or yellowish fluid, that it is the result of suppuration, and that the fluid is pus. Fluids with these properties are seen in dermoid and sebaceous cysts ; and I have seen malignant disease of the breast diagnosed as a purulent condition on the assumption that the thick yellow fluid in the centre of the growth was pus, but on microscopic examination the cells of the fluid were found to be epithelial and leucocyt.es were absent. Chylous fluid might give rise to error in diagnosis. I have seen the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb of a man suft'ering from gout full of fluid which, on extraction, looked like, and was assumed to be, pus ; but under the microscope the solid elements were found to be only acicular crystals of uric acid.