83 BACILLUS COLI COMMUNIS of somewhat extensively in the treatment of tuberculosis in the human subject. Its value is discussed in the succeeding article. For the diagnosis of doubtful tuberculosis, animal inoculation is of prime importance. The suspected material should be introduced beneath the skin of a guinea-pig, preferably on the outer aspect of the upper part of the thigh. This situation ensures the early infec-- tion of the inguinal glands if living tubercle bacilli be present. The animals used must be laiown beforehand to be free from tuberculosis, and must be in good condition. Two guinea-pigs should be employed for each specimen of material to be tested, and they should be weighed and examined at least once a week. If the material inoculated contains living tubercle bacilli, a diagnosis can usually be made in from six to eight weeks, by which time typical tuberculosis, with marked loss of weight and other general signs, will have developed in the majority of cases. But if not, one of the guinea-pigs should be killed at the end of two months, and carefully examined for tuberculosis. If it is found to be quite free, a provisional negative diagnosis may be given, but the second guinea-pig must be kept luider observation for at any rate six months, as cases are Imown in which the typical disease eventually developed, although no signs whatever were present at the end of the first two or three months. Bacillus coli communis (Bacterium coli commune).— The colon bacillus (Plate ',), Fig. 1) was discovered Ijy Escliericli in l^Sb, following the isolation of the Bacillus typhosus by Gaffky in 1884. It is a normal saprophyte in the intestine, but under various conditions, including any inflammation of the intestinal wall, it may escape from the alimentary canal and exercise pathogenetic action in the tissues, especially in the neighbourhood of the intestine, in the peritoneum, and in the uro-genital apparatus. The bacillus is a rod-shaped organism, straight or slightly curved, with rounded ends, of very variable size under different cultural con- ditions, but measuring on an average about 2-4 (limits 1-5 /j,) long, by 0'4-0'7 /J. wide. It is highly motile, and has rather short flagella ; it does not form spores, and does not usually exhibit any capsule. It stains readily with aqueous solutions of the ordinary basic aniline dyes, both in dried films and in wet jjreparations. It is Gram-negative. The organism is aerobic, and a facultative anaerobe. It grows well on the ordinary media. In bouillon it rapidly produces a thick uniform turbidity and a heavy deposit. A pellicle may be formed upon the surface. In gelatiu-stab it grows freely along the puncture, and produces gas. It spreads over the surface of the medium, forming a slimy, greyish, somewhat iridescent film. There is no liquefaction of the gelatin.