REPAIR 158 this contraction tliere is usually absorption of the surplus tissue which has been formed during the healing; and in this way the tendon may become quite free in its sheath. Sometimes, and especially if the womid has been septic, dense adhesions may be left between the tendon and its sheath, and thus serious interference with movpment may occur. The time required for complete healing of a tendon varies. If strictly aseptic, two to three weeks may suffice, but if sepsis occurs there may be considerable delay. REPAIR OF BONE In simple fracture of bone there is either separation or laceration of the periosteum, and there is always more or less blood extravasation, the blood accumulating between the fractured ends. Within forty- eight hours the endothelial cells of the blood-vessels become swollen, and leucocyte emigration is well marked. Both in and around the blood-clot these leucocytes, together with cells which have been derived by proliferation from the periosteum, are found. At the same time newly formed vessels, derived from the pre-existing vessels of the periosteum, are seen passing into this new cellular tissue. Thus is produced a mass of granulation tissue which unites the two ends of the fractured bone and also forms under the periosteum a sheath which encircles the bone. In this granulation tissue the cells are either spindle or very irregular in shape, and amongst them are a greater or lesser number of ■ larger cells with numerous nuclei, often collected near the centre and resembling the osteoblasts of normal bone-forma- tion. The cells lie in a matrix which at parts is homogeneous in structure and at other parts more or less fibrous. In four or five days the matrix becomes denser in structure, and the cellular character is lessened. This " osteoid " tissue, as it is called, becomes ultimately changed to bone, the ossification starting in the deeper layers and bony trabeculse which are being formed in continuation with the outer layers of the original bone. Side by side with this new formation, absorption and modelling go on ; in fact, the changes which take place during ossification are exactly similar to those seen during the normal processes of bone-formation. By successive deposits, large masses of this new bone—callus— are formed. Part of this becomes an ensheathing mass ; part of it is found in the medullary canal {internal callus) ; and the smallest part, if the apposition of the bones has been well maintained, forms an intermediate callus, uniting the two broken fragments. During this formation of callus it has been shown that there is always more or less cartilage formed, and in this cartilage eventually ossification occurs. The amount of callus produced is very variable, and depends on the condition of the bone at the site of fracture, on the size of the