626 X-RAY EXAMINATION frequently cause a greater amount of trouble than merely obese patients. The use of an abdominal compressor, combined with fre- quent examinations, starvation, and effective evacuation of the intestines, generally results in a radiogram of good quahty, even in the densest subject. A renal radiogram of good quality should show the following characters: (1) complete symmetry; (2) the lumbar vertebrae should be sharp and distinct in outline ; (3) the margin of the psoas muscle should be easily made out; (4) the outline of the kidney on either side should be readily discernible. Plate 37, Fig. 3, is a radiogram showing these points. If such a radiogram as this be secured, there is no reason why a positive or a negative diagnosis should not be reUed upon ; but where a radiogram does not attain tliis standard its quality should be taken into consideration, so that the X-ray diagnosis (positive or negative) may be estimated at its true worth. In order to bring renal examinations to a successful conclusion it is essential that the examination should not be carried out hurriedly ; not only is it indispensable that the intestine be properly emptied, but time must be allowed for a re-examination, not once, but twice or thrice, should this be advisable. Plate 38, Fig. 1, illustrates this point. The patient was not obese, but of exceptional muscular develop- ment. He was submitted to X-ray examination twice, but on neither occasion was the intestine sufficiently empty, and the radiograms could not be classed as of good quality, with the result that the examina- tion was negative. Finally, he was admitted into hospital; the bowels were thoroughly evacuated, the irradiation was carried out a third time, and the radiogram secured on this occasion showed an opacity representing a small oxalate calculus in the kidney. Figs. 2 and 3 in the same Plate are those of a case of ureteric calculus in which re-examination not only verified the presence of an opacity in the line of the ureter, but made the diagnosis more certainly correct. Between the examinations the patient experienced an attack of colic, and the second radiogram showed the calculus to occupy a position somewhat lower down the line of the ureter than on the former occasion ; this observation was possible through the radiogram on each occasion being secured in a fixed position. In Fig. 2 the opacity representing the calculus lies in close relation to the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra, whereas in the radiogram from the second examina- tion (Fig. 3) it lies considerably nearer the crest of the ilium. In considering diseases of the urinary tract from an X-ray point of view, a knowledge of the clinical history is highly desirable ; it is better, however, until the radiograms have been viewed, that the observer should be in possession of no information other than that the case is one of suspected calculus. In this way the radiogram is viewed Math an entirely unbiased mind and an examination of the