GANGRENE 220 Symptoms.—Senile gangrene occurs more often in men tlian in women, in the proportion of about 20 to 1, is usually limited to the toes and foot, and rarely commences before 40 years of age. Its appearance is often preceded by certain symptoms essentially due to arterial disease and its natural sequel, a defective circulation. Briefly, they consist of numbness and tingling, persistent cold unrelieved by the application of warmth, shooting pains, muscular rigidity and paresis setting in while walking and passing off with rest, and a diminu- tion of tactile sensation which leads the patient to feel as if he were treading on cotton-wool. Examination will reveal a cold, anaemic foot with impaired sensation that does not correspond to any particular nerve area, and rigid tortuous arteries in which there is little or no pulsation. These premonitory signs and symptoms are of the utmost importance, for by a due appreciation of their significance it is some- times possible to ward off an attack of gangrene. When some slight mechanical violence is applied to a toe in this condition, the sldn at the site of pressure or injury turns from white to a dusky red, which does not disappear on pressure ; in time this becomes brown, and finally shrivelled, black, and horny. In some cases a blister containing bloodstained serum first forms, and when the cuticle is removed, dusliy papUlse which tend to shrivel and dry up, forming a hard, black patch, are exposed. This patch may separate, leaving an ulcer that par- tially heals, only to break down again and again. Though any of the toes may be affected, the changes usually commence in the great toe, either on the dorsum or close to the nail. Once the gangrenous process has started, it progresses very slowly, and it may be months before a line of demarcation forms. If sufficient time were allowed to elapse, this would deepen and the toe would drop off : but, unfor- tunately, the process more often spreads either to adjacent toes or along the dorsum of the foot; and a second or third line of demarcation is formed, only to suffer the same fate as its predecessor. As the more vascular tissues of the foot become involved, it is not uncommon for the necrotic process to be moist on the dorsum or sides, and dry in the toes; but if asepsis is maintained and evaporation assisted, the whole area wUi eventually become uniformly dry. In the early stages tlie patient's health is fairly good, and his only complaint is directed to the intense shooting pains which the desiccated contracted tissues induce in the long-lived nerves ; but in time this pain begins to tell upon his constitution—his sleep is disturbed, his nutrition suffers, glycosuria from absorption of toxic products may set in, and death takes place from exhaustion or septic intoxication. Treatment."—AVhen premonitory symptoms give warning of the near approach of senile gangxene, prophylactic measures must be taken to prevent or delay its occurrence. The circulation should be assisted