ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 736 but local spraying with silver nitrate (gr. vi to ^vi) is of value. Should ulceration occur, insufflation of iodoform and boric acid prove beneficial. The eye.—Among the early secondary afi'ections of the eye iritis takes first place. It may be of two kinds : simple plastic iritis and parenchymatous iritis. Plastic iritis often occurs about the second month, and is characterized by severe supra-orbital pain, worse at night, and by contracted and sluggish pupils ; the iris is discoloured and adherent to the lens, and there is vascular injection of the cornea. Parenchymatous iritis presents yellowish-brown nodules on the pupillary border of the inflamed iris. The nodules are very distinct and, together with the ordinary signs of iritis, go to form true syphilitic iritis. This variety of iritis may appear, like the plastic, in the early months, but may be delayed to a much later period. Treatment.—The local treatment of iritis consists mainly in the free use of atropine, a solution of which (gr. v to 3]) should be dropped into the eye every second hour until good dilatation is brought about. Pain may be relieved by hot compresses over the eyes and the application of leeches to the temple. Subconjunctival injection of bichloride of mercury may be necessary in obstinate cases. Atropine is essential in the treatment of iritis. It should be ordered at the beginning and persevered with during the continu- ance of the attack, the object being to keep the pupil dilated, and by so doing to break through any adhesions which may have formed between the iris and the capsule of the lens ; it also relieves irri- tation and, by paralysing accommodation, places the eye in a state of rest. Should the pupil become closed by adhesion of the iris to the lens, an iridectomy should be done when inflammation has subsided, for the purpose of making an artificial pupil and prevent- ing a recurrence of iritis. Other secondary affections of eye.—Other affections ta which the eye is exposed in syphilis are cyclitis, choroiditis, irido- choroiditis, and retinitis ; but these are not common and occur gener- ally in the later stages. The nervous system. — The secondary nervous affections are neuralgia, cephalalgia, paralysis (especially of the muscles of the eye and face), hemiplegia and paraplegia, and chorea. One of the earliest symptoms of secondary syphilis is neuralgia, affecting the superficial nerves of the scalp, and producing the well- known phenomena of " nocturnal headache," which consists of a dull pain, beginning especially towards sundown, in the back of the neck, running up to the top of the head, and perhaps lasting for hours» Cephalalgia is more a feeling of tension than of actual pain.