458 TUMOURS it is a more or less extensive zone in which careful microscopic examina- tion shows that the tumour cells are invading the surrounding tissue ; and in planning an operation for the removal of a malignant tumour it is essential that the tissues in which this local extension is likely to be taking place should be freely removed. The evidence strongly supports the view that every malignant growth is local in its origin, and that recurrence after operation means that the operation has failed to remove completely the tissues which have already been invaded. The extirpation of a simple growth requires only the com- plete removal of the tumour as such, whilst the thorough extirpation of a malignant growth necessitates an operation the magnitude of which may seem to be out of all proportion to the macroscopic extent of the disease. It is worthy of notice that an undoubtedly malignant growth, and especially some varieties of sarcoma, may exhibit a well- marked tendency to encapsulation, whilst it is actually infiltrating the surroimding tissues. Thus, in certain sarcomas of the tonsil such a condition has been observed even when the presence of muscular tissue inside the capsule gives clear proof of the malignant nature of the growth. In studying the behaviour of a malignant growth at its advancing edge, it is most important to observe the part played by the blood- and lymph-vessels, for it is clearly by these routes that dissemination must be brought about. The mode of invasion of the blood-vessels by the tumour cells and the behaviour of the latter in the interior of the vessels have been studied particularly by Goldmann of Frei- burg, and Schmidt of Jena. Goldmann, by using a special stain for the elastic tissue in the walls of the small arteries and veins, has shown that these vessels are invaded by the cells of the growth in the peripheral zone, the invasion of the vessel-walls taking place by way of the vasa vasorum, and that whilst in the arteries the tumour cells rarely proceed farther than the outer coat, in the veins they are generally found beneath the intima. From these and other observations it appears certain that even in the early stages of malig- nant disease the tumour cells must find their way into the general circulation, and that if every such cell became the starting-point of a secondary deposit extensive metastases in the lungs would be an almost universal occurrence. There is, however, good reason for believing that in some way the cells are often destroyed in the cir- culation and fail to develop into metastases. In this connexion the work of Schmidt is of great importance. Among 41 cases of carcinoma which he examined systematically to determine the modes of dissemination were 1.5 cases of abdominal carcinoma in which, he states, cancerous emboli were present in the small arteries of the lungs, often without any macroscopic signs of secondary deposits. In one