WIDAL REACTION 45 tested. Shake each tube thoroughly in order from right to left, placing the thumb on the mouth of the tube. Leave at a temperature of between 37^ and 55^ C. for 2 hours, and then examine for agglutination. In tube 1 the serum acts in a dilution of 1 in 25 2 ., „ 1 in 50 3 „ ., ., 1 in 125 4 „ „ „ 1 in 250 Tube 5, containing no scrum, serves as a control against spontaneous agglu- tination. If a measurable amount of agglutinin is contained in the serum, one or more of the tubes will become clarified, more or less granular in appearance, and less opalescent. A light flocculent deposit will collect at the bottom of such tubes in the course of 2 or 3 hours or even sooner, while the control tube remains diffiisedly turbid. Agglutination in the dilution of 1 in 25 justifies a strong suspicion ot typhoid, paratyphoid, or B. coli infection, as the case may be. But since some normal serums, and the serums of some persons who have previously passed through these infections, give agglutination to this dilution, the examination should be repeated some days later to ascertain whether the agglutinating power increases. (If this occurs the case is evidently one of active infection.) tinability of the growths, diminishes tlie velocity of the reaction, and increases the tendency to spontaneous agglutination. It is well that any strain of B. typhosus, B. paratyphosus, or B. coli should be passed through a number of bouillon-tubes day by day, for several weeks before it is used in the preparation of the culture for agglutination. Those passages augment its agglutinability, and result in the production of a more homogeneous strain. After inoculation, the flasks of bouillon are kept at 37" C. in the ther- mostat for 22 to 24 hours. They are then well shaken up, and Od per cent, of the ordinary 40 per cent, solution of formol is added. After another careful shaking they are placed in the ice-chest at about 2° to 6^ C. They are well shaken up again that day, and also on the following days. The flasks are almost always found to be sterile within 48 hours, and are invariably so at the end of 72 hours, under these conditions. The reason for keeping the flasks at the low temperature of 2° to 0^ C. is that the cold hinders tlie further growth of the bacteria, and so prevents the diminution of the agglutinability that would otherwise follow the increased production of " toxins," etc., in the cultures. Should it happen that the cultures do not form an entirely homogeneous emulsion, they must be filtered through sterilized cotton-wool or coarse filter-paper (papier Chardin). Finally, the cultiu'es so prepared and sterilized, whether of B. typhosus, B paratyphosus, or B. coli, are put into sterile bottles with rubber corks and kept in the cold and in the dark. Such preparations have the following advantages :— 1. They are absolutely sterile. 2. They are as sensitive to agglutination as the same cultures when fresh, or even more so. 3. They can be kept unchanged for six months, or a year, or even longer. 4. They render possible the production of a standardized culture of constant agglutinability. This is a matter of great importance for the introduction of uniformity mto the Widal reaction and the collection of extensive comparable results.