753 TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS I. THE INUNCTION OR EXTERNAL METHOD This is the oldest known method of administering mercury, and was employed in the fifteenth century. Owing, however, to the reckless and drastic manner in which it was carried out, it gradu- ally but entirely lost favour. Many and ghastly stories of disastrous effects of this treatment are to be found in the writings of Torella, van Hutten, and other writers of the fifteenth and sixteenth cen- turies. It was then accompanied by severe methods of sweating and purgation. Now, however, in a much mildei form, it has re- gained favour as a rapid and satisfactory means of mercurialization. Rubbing with mercurial ointment of a known strength, combined with mild diaphoresis, good diet, and hygiene, is now found to be sufficient, without the purgmg, bleeding, and profuse sweating and salivation wliich were formerly considered necessary. The method of inunction has especially been in use at Aix-la-Chapelle during the last century and a half. Modern technique of the external method.—The daily routine treatment at Aix is as follows :— 1. Early each morning, a visit to one of the mineral springs and the administration of one or two glasses of the sulphur water. 2. Breakfast, consisting of perliaps one egg, bread and butter, and coffee. 3. One or two hours later, a bath of natural sulphur water at a temperature of 39° C. for twenty-five to thirty minutes. 4. Half an hour later, a visit from a professional rubber, who rubs into the patient's skin 75 grains of mercurial ointment of about the same strength as the ung. hydrargyri of the British Pharmacopoeia. Each rubbing lasts from fifteen to twenty minutes, and, in order to avoid dermatitis and other ill effects, it is applied to different parts from day to day, the changes being rung on the arms, forearms, chest, back, thighs, legs, flanks, in rotation. Composition of the Aix Wdter.—The water from the Aix springs contains from 22 to 28 grm. of sodium chloride, 4 to 5 grm. of sulphites, and 8 to 12 grm. of carbonates in 10,000 c.c , and has a range of temperature for therapeutic purposes of from 38° 0. to 72° C. The gaseous constituents absorbed in the water are— Nitrogen 9-00 Carbonic acid 89 40 Carburetted hyrlrogen ...... 0-37 Sulpliuretted hydrogen ...... — Oxygen . . . ...... 1-23 100-00