853 TREATMENT OF YAWS features througliout tlie whole course of the disease is the essentially uniform appearance of the eruption, which is thus distinguishable from the polymorphic rashes of syphilis. The mucous surfaces are very rarely implicated in yaws during the early stages of the disease. In considering the endemic form or a group of cases, there is a similar miiformity quite irrespectively of race. A group of cases originating in a negro will present the same appearances in Europeans, Indians, and other negroes. Prognosis is good as regards life, except in very young chil- dren. The disease runs a slow course, and may induce a certain amount of debility. In a small proportion of cases, deeper ulcerative lesions about the naso-pharynx and a hipoid ulceration of the face occur. These are by many considered to be tertiary manifestations of j'aws, by others to be really syphilitic manifestations, and by yet others are described as a separate disease (see Guam Disease, below). Treatment. 1. Prophylactic.—Cases of yaws should not be admitted into a general hospital, and should especially not be placed in a surgical ward, or in one where persons with ulcers are kept. Iso- lation of yaws is advisable, particularly in countries where it is not endemic. The spread of the disease since the abolition of slavery is probably due to the disuse of the yaws-houses. Europeans probably owe their comparative immunity to the wear- ing of boots, to the covering of the greater part of the body with clothes, and to their habit of protecting small wounds and ulcerated surfaces, rather than to greater cleanliness. European children should not be allowed to play about with native children, and should be especially warned not to share food, bananas, etc., with natives. Infection probably takes place in many cases by the interchange of half-eaten fruit. 2. Palliative and curative.—Perfect cleanliness and good food appear to shorten the duration of the disease; and if there is ansemia, iron and arsenic are advisable. Mercury and potassium iodide are uncertain in their action. In many cases both these drugs, and especially the iodide, cause rapid subsidence of the eruption; but even if they be continued, their effect is apt to be temporary, for fresh crops will usually appear. Excellent results have been obtained with salvarsan. GUAM DISEASE (PHARYNGITIS GANGRENOSA) Guam disease is a progressive destructive ulceration of the nose, fauces, and lips. It resembles lupus, and usually commences inside the nares and extends over the face and along the mucosa to the fauces. In the extreme forms the bones and the hard palate are destroyed, as well as the soft parts.