GONORRHOEA 8i4 combat the tendency to protracted erections and nocturnal semina emissions. Where it is impossible for the patient to remain in bed, the genitals should be supported by a well-fitting suspensory bandage, care being taken that this does not press unduly upon the penis or perineum. Some arrangement should be contrived for the absorption of the free purulent urethral discharge. It is not a good plan to insert cotton- wool under the prepuce, as is so frequently advised, for this is apt to hinder the tree flow of the pus. A better method is to place the penis in a little absorbent-wool bag, such as is supphed by Hartmann's Wood-Wool Company. Finally, it is the duty of the surgeon to point out to the patient the highly contagious character of the disease, and the necessity for the most scrupulous care and cleanliness, lest infection be conveyed to others or the patient inoculate himself in other parts of the body, such as the conjunctiva or the rectum. 2. Internal remedies.—Although numerous drugs have been advocated from time to time as of value in the treatment of this disease, remarkably few have stood the test of time. Almost the only remedies wliich have proved themselves of decided value are certain of the balsams, of which sandal-wood oil is the best. Copaiva, which is also largely used, possesses no advantages, and is decidedly more irritating to the stomach and kidneys. Although undoubtedly valuable, these balsams rarely seem able completely to cure the disease, and are accordingly to be used only as adjuncts to the local treatment. They should be given in the earliest stage of the disorder. They are of special value in those florid cases in which all local treatment is contra- indicated by the presence of pain and irritation. When taken by the mouth they are excreted more or less unchanged in the urine, and act as local sedatives and antiseptics to the inflamed mucous membrane. As a rule, they are beneficial and well tolerated ; but they may entirely fail to cause any improvement, or may even give rise to serious disturbance. In either case a change of drug is indicated. The most common ill-eft"ects induced by sandal-wood oil and other balsams are nausea, dyspepsia and heartburn, and other evidences of gastric disturbance, cutaneous rashes, and irritation of the kid- neys, causing a dull aching pain in the loins, and the appearance of albuminuria. Vaccine treatment.—During recent years attempts have been made favourably to influence gonorrhoeal inflammations by inoculating the patient with small doses of a vaccine prepared from a gonococcal culture. Up to the present such attempts cannot be said to have been very successful in the acute stages, and this method is generally reserved for the severe forms of chronic and metastatic inflammation which do not yield to other modes of treatment. It is, however, too