ACUTE ANTERIOR URETHRITIS emissions, form a characteristic feature of the acutest stage of the disorder, and seriously interfere with rest and sleep. The inflamed condition of the urethra and the corpus spongiosum renders them less elastic than usual. Consequently, when the penis becomes swollen and erect, it curves downwards to a greater or less degree, and the inflamed urethra can be felt as a cord holding down the penis, hence the term chorda venerea. At these times it not infrequently happens that the pus is tinged with blood which has escaped from the engorged capillaries of the urethral mucous membrane. Considering the severity of the local symptoms, the general con- stitution is surprisingly little affected. Apart from slight pallor of tlie face, loss of aj^petite, a feeling of malaise, and sometimes, at the acme of the inflammation, a trifling rise of temperature, the general condition is hardly impaired. The symptoms generally increase in severity up to the second or third week, and then, if all goes well, gradually abate as the inflammation slowly dies down. The secretion becomes thinner, more mucoid, and lessened in quantity, until at length only sufficient remains to glue the lips of the meatus togetlier. It then disappears, so that at the end of the fifth or sixth week the entire process is over, and the disease is cured. This may be regarded as the normal and most favourable course, but it is liable to many exceptions. Apart from the occurrence of the special complications to which this disease is so peculiarly liable, and which are more conveniently discussed later in this article, the course of the disorder may be altered in the following ways : (a) By an exacerbation or recurrence of the acute inflammation ; (h) by an extension of the disease to the posterior urethra ; and (c) by the inflammation pas,sing into a chronic condition. The first two of these we will now consider : the third will be discussed later (p. 821). Exacerbation of the acute inflammation.—This not infrequently arises from some indiscretion in diet, more especially the use of alcohol, or from sexual excitement, or unsuitable local treat- ment. Such relapses may occur again and again, and not only greatly delay recovery, but are often most potent factors in bringing about an extension to the posterior urethra, and in causing the disorder to become chronic. ACUTE POSTERIOR URETHRITIS About tlie beginning of the third week the inflammation in the anterior portion of the urethra reaches its acme, and, unless it extend farther along the urethra, will either entirely disappear or gradually pass into the chronic stage. Should it, however, extend to the posterior urethra, the prognosis is considerably graver; the