619 X-RAY EXAMINATION By W. ironside BRUCE, M.D. This method of examination depends on the property of penetration of matter possessed by a radiation from an electrically excited Crookes tube. This radiation has been proved to be outside the spectrum, and has been named X-ray. It may, for purjDOses other than those required by the expert, be looked upon as a source of light which has the property of penetrating the tissues to a greater or less extent according to their density, and the shadows cast by it can be recorded on a photographic plate, or may be viewed with the naked eye by means of a screen composed of a thin layer of barium platino-cyanide, a substance which becomes highly fluorescent in the presence of this radiation. One or other of these methods is used for the recogni- tion of pathological conditions existing in the human tissues. TJie fluorescent screen appears at first sight to be an easy way of recog- nizing abnormahties. Its value in the examination of the thorax, where the movements of the heart, lungs, and diaphragm have to be observed, is undoubtedly very great; but as an accurate means of recognizing any abnormality it is untrustworthy. For instance, it is possible to fail to recognize simple transverse fracture of the tibia by its means. Its use is therefore to be deprecated in cases where great accuracy is necessary ; and it is safer and better to make use of the more certain method, the photographic plate. A further objection to the use of the screen is that the constant exposure of the hands and other parts of the body of the observer results in an intractable and dangerous chronic dermatitis. By using a photographic plate the danger of dermatitis can be avoided, since it is not necessary to expose the hands at all ; and at the same time greater accuracy is ensured and a permanent record is obtained. Although examination by radiography is a somewhat tedious pro- cedure in comparison with direct observation by the fluorescent screen, yet it is less difficult if the photographic side of this method is approaclied in a proper and luisiness-like manner. Interpretation of radiograms.—A successful result in X-ray examination involves a clear understanding of the meaning of tlie