TUMOURS 4/0 in tlie disease first described by Paget and known as osteitis deformans. Among 34 fatal cases of this disease collected by Elmslie, death was caused in 12 by malignant growths, of which 9 were primary sar- coma of bone. Two specimens from Paget's cases are preserved in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, the sarcoma being in one case in the femur and in the other in the skull. Lawford Ivnaggs and Griiner have recently recorded a case in which a sarcoma of the femur supervened upon a peculiar form of osteitis, probably 'identical with that described by Shattock as non-calcifjdng osteitis, and by von Eecklinghausen as osteitis fibrosa. Elmslie refers to a specimen at St. Bartholomew's in which a sarcoma had developed in the site of an old tuberculous affection of the knee. Such cases illustrate the fact that, although in a much less marked degree than carcinoma, sarcoma occasionally arises in tissues which are already affected by some non-malignant pathological change. If maUgnant gTowths are in any sense dependent upon heredity, it is the predisposition of the tissues to the development of the disease, and not the disease itself, which is transmitted. Although the theory of the hereditary nature of cancer has been widely accepted, and striking instances of its occurrence in several members of the same family are not uncommon, it is questionable whether in general heredity is an important factor in the causation of the disease. In such instances as the following, commimicated to Bashford by Edward Jessop, it is difficult, in spite of general statistics,-to avoid the conclusion that some hereditary influence is at work, and further, that in some families the unusual liability to the disease is especially manifest in some particular organ or part, such as the intestinal tract. In one instance a man, one of a family of 9, died of cancer of the liver, the others being all alive and well. The patient's mother was one of a family of 13, of whom 7 died from cancer—2 from cancer of the bladder, 2 from cancer of the liver, and 1 each from cancer of the throat, uterus, and breast. In another family of 9 children, 5 died from cancer—4 males from cancer of the cfecum, and the female from cancer of the breast. The mother and her brother also died from cancer, and a son of the eighth son died from cancer of the bowel at the age of 28. Among 500 consecutive cases of carcinoma of the breast treated in Univer- sity College Hospital, there was a family history of maUgnant disease in 81, and in 37 of the 81 cases the disease was stated to have been in the breast. In one of this series of cases the patient's mother and her sister died from cancer of the breast, and the father's sister from cancer of the mouth ; of the patient's sisters, 2 died from cancer, 1 of the stomach and 1 of the breast. If heredity plays any impor- tant part in the causation of the disease, it might be expected that it would lead to its incidence before the average age. In this con-