WOUNDS OF SPINE AND SPINAL CORD 285 or abdomen. The vertebrae are usually cleanly drilled by rifle bullets, and there is no angular deformity unless a vertebra is crushed by a large bullet, which seldom occurs. Fractures of the transverse and spinous processes are also met with. Injury to the spinal cord may be direct or indirect. Direct injury includes laceration and division by the bullet, or by fragments of bone. Indirect injury is from the vibratory concussion that affects the cord when a bullet strikes the spinal column but does not touch the cord itself. It is precisely similar to concussion of a nerve, and may be slight or severe. Slight con- cussion produces paraplegic symptoms, often incomplete, wliich tend to clear up, improvement commencing early; but in many cases recovery is never perfect. Severe concussion destroys the nervous structures of tlie cord as completely as a gross lesion, degeneration follows, and no recovery takes place. In most instances of partial section of the cord by a bullet the undivided portion is practically destroyed by concussion, unless the bullet possesses so little velocity that the damage is confined to the part of the cord actually struck. Compression of the cord by lisemorrhage, or by a displaced piece of bone or a lodged l)ullet, is rare. In all injuries to the cord there is intense shock, and frequently very severe girdle pain from irritation of the j^osterior roots by haemorrhage. Cases of complete transverse destruction of the cord are hope- less ; the patients die within a few weeks. Partial lesions are more hopeful, and the earlier improvement begins, the more complete it is likely to be. The usual treatment of paraplegia must be carried out, in addition to attending to the wounds, and special care must be taken to disinfect catheters, and to prevent, if possible, the formation of bedsores. Operation is very seldom advisable. It can do no good except in cases of pressure on the coid. If symptoms of paraplegia are incomplete, or show some improvement, and there is evidence of pressure on the cord by displaced bone or a bullet lodged in the spinal canal, then laminectomy is indicated, and improvement has some- times resulted. Skiagrams may be of assistance, and lodgment of the bullet indicates that the symptoms cannot be due to concussion, as a bullet that lodges must be nearly spent. Very severe pain from haemorrhage pressing on the nerve roots has also been considered to justify laminectomy for its relief. Wounds of the neck, unless they cause fatal ha-morrhage, are usually of little importance. It is remarkable how often rille bullets traverse the neck without injuring any important structure. Wounds of the cervical spine are dangerous ; they have already been discussed. Bullets that pass through the neck may also wound the head, arm, or chest. Flesh wounds of the neck ma}^ be followed l)y a good deal of stiffness, particularly if they suppurate. Injuries to vessels and