TUMOURS 542 eventually involved both sides of the mandible. Before the patient's death, the recurrent tumour involved the skin, and tumours developed beneath the right deltoid and in connexion with the right liip-bone. In another of Heath's cases a large tumour of the structure above described was removed from the right half of the mandible of a man 22 years of age. Eleven years later the patient returned with an ulcerating growth involving the cheek and the remaining part of the right half of the jaw ; the structure of the recurrent growth corre- sponded exactly mth that of the primary tumour. In conclusion, it is deserving of mention that Bland-Sutton has expressed the opinion that these tumours are in reality endotheliomas. Although we are not in agreement with this view, we must admit that it is in keeping with the long course and low malignancy exhibited by the disease. Carcinoma of the soft palate, pharynx, and tonsil IS of the same type as that occurring in the tongue and other parts of the mouth. The tonsil is less often the seat of a primary growth than involved in a growth beginning in its neighbourhood. Early glandular invasion is the rule. The disease in this part is impor- tant ratlier from the operative point of view than from any special pathological features. In the nasal cavity carcinoma is rare, and usually begins either in the mucous membrane of the septum or in the ethmoidal region. It may be either a squamous-celled carcinoma or carcinoma simplex. Carcinoma of the salivary glands is rare, and is always of the carcinoma simplex form. It is less rare in the parotid than in the other glands, and may occur as a growth of considerable hardness, or in a softer form indistinguishable clinically from a sarcoma. The distinction between a malignant growth of the parotid gland and an endotheHoma in the parotid region is rarely difhcult; the former presents itself as a deeply fixed tumour, filling the hollow behind the ramus of the jaw, whereas the endothelioma is usually, in the early stages at least, more superficially placed and often freely movable. Paralysis of the facial nerve may result, and in the case of a tumour in the parotid region is to be regarded as a certain indication of its malignant nature. In the later stages a carcinoma of the parotid gland may involve the skin and ulcerate, the condition closely resembUng that resulting from an ulcerated squamous carcinoma of the skin with secondary deposits in the lymphatic glands of the parotid region. Carcinoma of the thyroid gland usually has the struc- ture of carcinoma simplex. The disease tends to develop in glands which are already the seat of a simple enlargement, and is therefore met with most commonly in localities in which goitre is endemic.