3IO CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES occur ; but when the process is very virulent, especially when the blood I ressui'e is high, as it is in the large vessels of an amputation stump, ihe vessel wall either gives way before thrombosis has occurred, or the thrombus is quickly liquefied and the vessel opened. In these circumstances secondary hsemorrhage occurs. It is also met with when breaking-down malignant growths ulcerate into large blood- vessels, the condition here, too, being due to sepsis. Again, secondary hsemorrhage occurs in chronic inflammatory pro- cesses, such as tubercle. The chronic inflammatory process weakens the vessel wall, with the result that the blood pressure in the vessel causes the formation of a small aneurysm which ultimately bursts. This is the usual cause of hsemorrhage from the hmgs in tubercular disease. Other examples of secondary haemorrhage are the hsemorrhage that occurs in typhoid fever due to ulceration opening the intestinal vessels, and the ha;morrhage in gastric and duodenal ulcers. The diagnosis of secondary hsemorrhage, which may be either external or concealed, arterial or venous, is made in the same way as the diagnosis of primary hsemorrhage ; but there is one point that deserves special mention, namely, the small initial hsemorrhage that frequently precedes the large and often final hsemorrhage. Thus, on dressing a septic amputation stump, the dressing may be foimd to be soaked in blood, although no bleeding is occurring at the time ; and this may be repeated two or three times before the vessel completely gives way and fatal hsemorrhage results. These warnings are due to partial opening of the vessel and then re-establishment of the clot, and are useful as indicating the need for the immediate adoption of measures to prevent further haemorrhage ; but they are not constant, and a profuse flow of blood teiminating fatally may be the first indica- tion of secondary hsemorrhage. In the modern treatment of septic con- ditions of the limbs by continuous warm baths, secondary hsemorrhage is peculiarly dangerous. The limb is placed in a bath which is covered to previ nt escape of heat, and it is kept there for hours. Should secondar}^ hsemorrhage occur, the blood may flow into the bath, and as the condition is painless the hsemorrhage may only be suspected when the patient shows marked signs of loss of blood. I have met with two fatal cases of secondary hsemorrhage that occurred in this way. TREATMENT The treatment of hsemorrhage may be considered under the head- ings geneial and local, the foimer being concerned with the effects of lhe loss of blood until it has been replaced, and therefore extending over weeks or months, as well as with its immediate arrest, and the