SARCOMA 509 and soft cancers. The glands first involved are those which lie on either side and in front of the aorta and vena cava, between the level of the renal vessels above and the bifurcation of the aorta below. The secondary glandular deposit may reach a large size and form a prominent tumour situated chiefly above the level of the umbilicus. Enlargement of the inguinal glands is very unhkely to occur unless the disease of the testicle has involved the scrotum, but it is of interest that enlargement of the left supraclavicular glands has been observed (p. 4(31). Sarcoma and the other forms of new growth affecting the testicle may develop in an organ wliich is retained in the inguinal canal or abdominal cavity, and it is generally supposed, but not on very satis- factory evidence, that malposition of the testicle renders it more than usually liable to malignant disease. The much greater frequency of inguinal tlian of abdominal retention explains the greater frequency of malignant growths in the former situation. When a testicle in the abdomen is affected, an abdominal tumour situated laterally below the level of the umbihcus is produced, the nature of which may be altogether obscure until the absence of the corresponding testicle from the scrotum is observed. Osier, who has drawn attention to the clinical characters of the abdominal tumours resulting from malig- nant disease of the testicle, has found that ascites is not apparently uncommon. Although one or two attempts have been made to apply to malig- nant disease of the testicle the general principle of extirj^ating the corresponding lymphatic area, Jamieson and Dobson, as the result of their investigations on the distribution of the glands receiving the lymphatics of the organ, doubt whether such an object is attainable. Sarcoma of the ovary in adults is usually unilateral, and may reach a large size, tending to spread to the surrounding structures and to cause metastases. The characters of the tumour itself are liable to vary according as it is round-celled or spindle-celled, the former being much the softer of the two. In connexion with the not infrequent occurrence of sarcoma of the ovaries in young children, it may be convenient here to refer to the fact that sarcoma is known to affect the other pelvic organs in young children, such as the prostate, testicles, uterus, vagina, and bladder. In the ovaries and testicles the disease is not uncommonly bilateral. In the bladder, sarcoma in children may occur as a fungating mass, but more often assumes a polyjjoid form in which the sarcoma elements are largely mixed with myxomatous tissue. Targett, who has studied tumours of this nature, is of opinion that most cases described as mucous polypi of the bladder in children are really sarcomatous. The tumour