CHRONIC URETHRITIS glands can be seen in the floor. In the penile part the opening of the glands of Littre and Morgagni can be seen in the upper and lower walls of the uretlua. In the glans the membrane has almost lost its red colour, and tlie round central figure has l^ecomc triangular. Appearance of the chronically inflamed urethra.—Two forms of inflammatory lesions can be seen by the endoscope in chronic urethritis. The first is that described when sj^eaking of the morbid anatomy of the condition as consisting of localized small-celled infil- trations of the subepithelial tissues, causing swelling and hypersemia of the mucous membrane. Tliis represents the " soft infiltration " of Oberlander, and is the early stage of the chronic gonorrhoeal process. The second group of pathological changes forms what Oberlander calls the " hard infiltration." It includes all the inflammatory pro- cesses by which the small-celled soft infiltration gradually passes into firm fibroid scar tissue, which reaches its highest development Fig. 213.—Normal urethra in the middle of the bulbous portion. Central figure vertical. Fig. 214.—Appearance of chronically inflamed urethra, showing an old infiltration area in the penile portion. Central figure gaping ; longitudinal folds less numerous and less marked than normally. in tlie formation of a stricture. The conversion of a soft-infiltration area into firm cicatricial tissue is a gradual process, all the phases of which can be observed by the urethroscope. Soft small-celled infiltration.—In the soft small-celled infiltration in its most typical stage the mucous membrane is hyperfemic and redder than normally. Its epithelium is oedematous, dull, and loosened, so that it is readily detached, and may be altogether absent in places, leaving small erosions which bleed on being touched by a probe. In consequence of the swelling and oedema of the mucous membrane, the longitudinal folds into which the urethra is normally thrown when the passage is not distended are coarser and less numerous. Instead of seeing several fine folds radiating from the central figure, as normally, three or four thickened folds press forward into the lumen of the endoscopic tube. In the penile portion the openings of the crypts of Morgagni are seen to be reddened and swollen, whilst in the prostatic urethra the principal changes are grouped around the caput gallinaginis, Fig. 213. Fig. -214.