523 CARCINOMA: METASTASIS deposits. For instance, a squamous-celled carcinoma of the tongue shows its malignancy by the progressive extension of the primary growth and an almost constant invasion of the lymphatic glands, whilst secondary deposits elsewhere are extremely rare. So, also, in carcinoma of the intestinal tract, often of the columnar-celled variety, metastases are very uncommon, with this notable exception, that the liver is often invaded by way of the portal circulation, and is the seat of multiple deposits. As an instance of the very rare occurrence of bone metastases of columnar carcinoma, Bernard Pitts has recorded the case of a woman with carcinoma of the rectum upon whom colotomy had been performed ; spontaneous fracture of the humerus occurred, and on account of the excessive pain and the absence of imion the limb was amputated. The fracture had resulted from a deposit of typical columnar-celled carcinoma in the bone. In a case recently in University College Hospital, under the care of Risien Riissell, an unsus- jjected carcinoma in the upper part of the rectum of a man aged 32 caused metastases in the lumbar vertebra>, resulting in compression paraplegia, and also a deposit in the manubrium sterni. We know of no explanation of the great variations in the tendency to produce metastases exhibited by the different forms of carcinoma. Although some of the most striking instances of widely distributed metastases are found in carcinoma simjDlex, and some of the more dif- ferentiated forms exhibit the tendency in a much less marked degree, exceptions are not uncommon. Thus, the peculiarly specialized form of carcinoma sometimes occurring in the thyroid gland is particularly Uable to cause metastases, whilst in rodent ulcer, a carcinoma of a very undifferentiated type, the absence of secondary deposits is an almost constant feature. In their structure the metastases of carcinoma reproduce in a very striking way that of the primary tumour in the character of the epithelial elements, and often any special degeneration, such as colloid, to which they may be liable. In view, however, of the fact that the stroma is not an essential part of the growth, but merely the result of a secondary reaction of the tissues, it is not surprising that the stroma of a secondary deposit may differ widely, both in character and amount, from that of the primary tumour. Thus, a small, hard cancer of the breast, in which the epithelial elements are very scanty, may produce large, soft metastatic deposits agreeing with the primary gTowth only in the character of the cells. Secondary deposits of cancer in the bones are almost invariably central in origin and, especially when afEecting the shaft of a long bone, are very liable to occasion spontaneous fracture even before any enlargement of the bone can be detected. The jjresence of a fixed, dull aching pain in one of the bones of a patient suffering from