CARCINOMA OF THE RECTUM 553 to the CtX'Cuni, the hard mass sometimes resulting from inflammation of the appendix may in its clinical features be indistinguishable from a hard cancerous tumour ; and again, the tumour formed by the hyper- plastic variety of tuberculosis of the ctecum, or by actinomycosis in the same region, may lead to similar diagnostic difficulty. Carcinoma of the vermiform appendix is probably very rare. In a considerable number of recorded cases the diagnosis of carcinoma has been based upon the microscopic examination of the ajjpendix removed during an attack of appendicitis, often in young subjects. Whilst fully allowing that an unsuspected carcinoma of the ajDpcndix may cause a secondary inflammation simulating simple appendicitis, it is more than probable that the microscojaic appearances regarded as indicative of carcinoma have often been due to hyper^jlastic changes in the glandular follicles or lymphatic endothelium. In speaking of the pathological features of carcinoma of the rectum little need be added to what has been said of the disease as it occurs in other parts of the large intestine. The disease is probably twice as common in men as in women, and the average age at which it first produces symptoms is about 50 years. It may occur m any part of the rectum, but is particularly common at a distance of two or three inches from the anus. The growth occurs most frequently as a hard, irregular, ulcerated patch (Fig. 149), but not rarely forms a dense, annular, ulcerated stricture, tending to cause a varying degree of invagination. As it extends, the tumour invades the whole thickness of the gut, becoming adherent to and finally invading the surromiding structures, such as the base of the bladder, the prostate, or the vagina. The lymphatic glands first involved are usually those lying between the layers of the meso-rectum, whence the ihac and lumbar glands may be invaded. As in other parts of the intestine, the disease is liable to occasion supj^uration around the bowel and to cause fistulous commimications with the neighbouring viscera. It cannot be too strongly insisted upon, that carcinoma of the rectum may advance even to an inoperable condition without producing any characteristic symptoms, and that its recognition depends solely upon a ]>r(^]ierly conducted lectal examination. Carcinoma of the anus is not common, and occurs as the squamous-celled variety, usually beginning at the line of junction of the skin and mucous membrane. Frequently some inflammatory condition precedes the development of the disease ; thus, it has been known to begin in an external pile, at the orifice of a fistula, or in the thickened eczematous skin associated with long-standing jjruritus ani. The tumour often assumes a very warty form, and thus may be mistaken for the simple papillomatous growths sometimes occurring in the anal region. Secondary deposits are likely to occur in the superficial