ELASTIC-TISSUE REPAIR 155 Evidence of actual proliferation of the cartilage cells at tlie edoes of the wound can sometimes be observed. REPAIR OF ELASTIC TISSUE The re-formation of elastic tissue is always imperfect, but new fibres are formed in the heaUng of wounds in situations in which elastic tissue is normally present. Fine fibrillte can be seen projecting from the older strands at the edges of the wound, but it has not been satis- factorily demonstrated whether these fibres are new formations from the bodies of cells or whether they are merely outgrowths from the old fibres. Milne, dealing with the healing of wounds in the liver, states that " in certain areas a re-formation of elastic tissue has occurred, as there are far more elastic fibres than could possibly be derived from any mechanical aggregation or transposition of normal struc- tures ; further, they do not present the appearances of degeneration products. From six weeks till two months this patchy distribution of elastic tissue is maintained, but its elements have extended farther and are somewhat coarser. In incisions of three to four months' duration, although there still are large areas of connective tissue con- taining no elastic structure, yet there has also been a very extensive deposition of elastic tissue which intersects the fibrous strands through very widely distributed areas." Further, he states that " a very considerable new formation of elastic tissue takes place in the liver. Tlie new formation always occurs in greater proportion in the fibrous-tissue healing of wounds which have always been aseptic or in the reparative processes round necrotic areas, than in the repair of those which have been of an infective type. The new elastic formation appears to be derived from some pre-existing focus." Dawson says that the elastic fibres found in the granulation tissue in wounds arise from a dissociation into fibrils of the pre-existiug fibres. This is brought about by the exudation and the cell infiltra- tion."" This splitting up is apparently only a preliminary stage to atrophy and solution. The first new fibres arise, according to this author, as lateral pro- jections from the pre-existing fibres at the borders of the wound, these new fibres running parallel with the connective-tissue cells and break- ing up into branches which encircle the cells. He, however, jsoints out that in scar tissue the very close relationship of the fibres to the cells, and the fact that the more delicate ones are in contact with the cell- border, whilst the thicker ones are farther out from the cell, certainly suggest a definite formation of fibres from the cells. The arrange- ment of the elastic tissue in walls of thickened arteries is also strongly sviggestive of this latter view.