379 FIBROMA Fibrous tumours of the naso-pharynx.—Tliese tumours originate from the iiiuco-]>erio.steuni covering the under surface of the body of the sphenoid or the l)asilar portion of the occipital. As it increases, the tumour fills the naso-pharynx and gradually extends into the neighIjouring cavities, blocking the nostrils and even extend- ing into the maxillary antra and encroaching upon the orbits. An extraordinary instance, of the extent to -whicli such a growth may encroacli upon the surrounding cavities is seen in a specimen obtained from a child under tlie care of Richard (^huiin in 1851. The tumour ho.s extended along the left Eustachian tube into the tympanum, and, after perfoi-ating the membranunr tympani, completely fills the external auditor}' meatus. Fibrous tumours of the naso-pharynx are most common in young m;de adults. The earliest symptoms of the disease are nasal obstruc- tion and attacks of cpistaxis, which may be profuse and are explained by the vascularity of the tumour. In some instances involution of the gro\vtli has been observed, but the usual course is one of steady increase. Extensive operative procedures may be necessary for the removal of sucli a growth, and, idthougli repeated recurrence may occur from the divided base of the tumour, the evidence appears to us to iustif\' the view that it is a fibroma and not sarcomatous in Uf tui-c. Submucous fibromas.—Simple fibrous tumours have been met with beneath tlie mucosa of the ccsophagus, stomach, and intestine. As a rule they are small and not productive of symptoms. In the intes- tine they may be pedunculated and, like other tumours of the bowel, may give rise to intussusception. W. G-. Spencer has recorded a case in which he successfully removed a submucous fibroma of the po.sterior wall of tlie stomach. The tumour, which is preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, has the shape and size of a large kidney, and weighed after removal 7 oz. ; it has the structure of a dense fibroma. The patient was a woman, and, as both kidneys were very moval)le, it was impossible to say to what extent the abdominal l ain from which she suffered Wc-s attributable to the tumour itself. When the tumour in the stomach was detected at the operation it was at first suspected to be a hair-ball. In recording tliis case. Spencer refers to a fibrous tumour of the stomach described by Morgagni. It was situated in the posterior wall, weighed about a pound, and was of almost bony hardness. Fibroma of glands and other organs.—Simple fibrous tumours (if Ihc \-ai-inus solid organs are extremely rare. In the breast, tumours, which to the naked eye appear to be composed only of fibrous tissue, almost invariably prove, on liistological examina- tion, to be fibfo-adenonias. In the Museum of University College