SECONDARY SYPHILIDES 733 early secondary to the late tertiary period. Pustules of all sizes, each seated on a firm base, erupt rapidly in successive crojjs, accompanied by niucli febrile disturbance ; they may be in immense numbers, especially on the face and trunk, and may relapse even after a year. They dry up into brown or black scabs, and leave stains that ulti- mately change into shallow cicatrices. Or the inflamed bases continue to spread after the summits have scabbed over, so that as the crusts increase in size the older parts are continually pushed up by the collection of fresh material underneath ; thus the lesions assume conical shapes like limpet-shells. This variety of eruption is known as rupia (Plate 76). 6. The squamous syphilide (syphilitic lepra). The lesions are fla"*, hardly raised above the surface, and covered with silvery scales on a coppery, glistening base. The scales are easily detached, but repeatedly re-accumulate. The eruption is rather a late manifesta- tion ; the spots are always scattered, few, and confined to one region, such as the thighs, palms, or soles. The circinate syphilide is a fairly common variety of this erup- tion. It assumes the form of rings, and resembles tinea circinata ; but the exfoliation at the margin is generally profuse, and the silvery scales are easily detached. The rings are few and scattered, and especially appear on the front of the thighs, but may be found any- where from the forehead and face downwards. This eruption is very prone to relapses, even as late as the fifth year. 7. The pifimer}tary sypJrilide is seen in two distinct forms—viz. in spots or patches of various sizes, or as a diffuse pigmentation which later becomes the seat of leucodermia ; this latter is the retijorm pig- mentary sypliilide. This syphilide may appear as early as the third month, but more usually between the sixth and twelfth months, and often is postponed until the second or third year after infection. It generally occurs in women, and shows a predilection for the lateral aspects of the neck, face, and forehead. The first variety of the pigmentary sypliilide shows as light-brown round or oval plaques, which may have sharply defined borders. The second form—the retiform or lace form—is much more common than the former. Slowly or rapidly the neck becomes discoloured to a cafe-au-lail tint. Then on the pigmented surfaces irregularly distributed white spots appear, and gradually increase in size and number until the skin assumes a lace-lilce character. The hair,—Alopecia is a common and early sign of syphilis, and may rarely occasion a general shedding of all the hair. Much more usually the loss of hair is jDartial and gives rise to irregularly distrilnitcd, rounded bald areas. The moustache and beard may also be attacked. As a rule, the hair is rapidly restored, but very