324 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES a matter of dispute, some investigators placing it peripherally and others centrally. It is therefore advisable to consider first the causes of surgical shock and its clinical phenomena, and then to attempt to arrive at some idea of its jjathology, in order that its treatment may be placed on a rational and not on an empirical basis ; for the present no distinction will be made between shock and collapse. ETIOLOGY Shock is met with in many and varied conditions, which may be grouped as below ; but it not infrequently happens that two or more causes are present at the same time, and it may be diflS.cult to deter- mine which of them is the most important factor. For example, in a severe accident crushing a limb, over-stimulation of peripheral nerves and a large loss of blood are often associated as the agents in the production of a severe degree of shock. Causes of shock may be—■ 1. A disturbance of the higher nerve centres, either induced by a sudden mental " shock," such as the hearing of bad news, or by the anticijiation of some severe injury, e.g. the fear of an operation. This mental disturbance is sufficient in itself to produce a profound condition of shock, even ending in death, and there are many cases on record of patients dying after the simplest of opera- tions owing to intense fear. On the other hand, severe and even fatal lesions may be sustained without the immediate supervention of shock, if the patient's mind is so intensely concentrated on some- thing else that the lesion passes almost unnoticed. This temporary immunity may be followed by " delayed " shock when the condition of intense concentration has ceased. 2. Extensive cutaneous lesions, e.g. burns and scalds. The amount of shock following a burn largely depends on the extent of the burnt surface, and not so much on the depth of the burn. This is probably due to the intense stimulation of the cutaneous nerves of the sldn, followed by over-stimulation of the central nervous system. Shock following exposure to cold is due to the same condition. At the same time, other factors probably help to produce a fatal result in burn cases, such as poisonmg by carbon monoxide, loss of the excretory power of the skin, and congestion of the internal organs. 3. Injuries to large nerve trunks.—Injuries involving crushing of the large nerve trunks are usually associated with a severe degree of shock. This depends in part on the severe pain of these injuries, pain being very potent in inducing and maintaining shock, and partly on the destruction and over-stimulation of a large number of afl'erent nerve fibres. If the path of impulse up the nerve trunks has been previously blocked by injection of cocaine, the shock is not so severe.