738 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS variety is especially liable to attack the elbows and to be bilateral. There is a slight swelling, accompanied by severe pain especially at night, and usually by a rise of body temperature even up to 104° F. The subacute variety, which is far more common than the former, very often attacks one knee only. There appears a swelling of the joint, accompanied by little or no pain. Bodily disturbance and pyrexia are insignificant, and the condition generally ends in re- solution. The amount of fluid secreted is usually small. A peculiar feature of this variety is the intermittent character of the effusion. Affections of the tendons.—Teno-synovitis may occur at an early stage, and is characterized by effusion, tenderness, and swell- ing along the course of a tendon. Sometimes it is limited to one, such as the tendo Achillis ; more rarely it attacks several at the same time, and may cause severe pain and tenderness over them. Treatment.—Little can be done locally for these affections : every- thing depends on constitutional treatment. Pain can, of course, be assuaged by the usual methods, and, when very severe, requires the use of morphia hypodermically. Rheumatoid pains.—Some of the most constant symptoms in the early months of syphilitic infection are pains in the muscles, bones, and joints. The muscles attacked are chiefly those of the extremities ; whilst the joints affected are the ankle, elbow, wrist, and phalanges. These pains begin at sundown and gradually get worse at night. Specific treatment.—In speaking of the local treatment of all secondary affections it is presumed that specific general treatment is strictly adhered to in all, as no local measures will avail in its absence. TERTIARY SYPHILIS When not exterminated in its secondary stage, syphilis passes into its chronic tertiary stage. Tertiary lesions present many differ- ences fi"om those of the secondary stage. They are of compact struc- ture and slow growth, are less numerous and more isolated, irregular in their course, and much more deeply seated and destructive in their tendency. Whereas secondary affections tend towards resolu- tion, tertiary ones favour progression. The viscera are compara- tively rarely attacked in secondary syphilis, whereas in the tertiary stage they suffer deeply from a chronic infiltration and from the formation of gummatous nodules. The results of tertiary syphilis are protean in their manifestations. It is therefore difficult to give a clear definition. In some cases a form of tertiary lesions may appear as early as the third or fourth month, while the roseolar rash is still present; the patient appears