635 TUBERCULOSIS OF JOINTS there are respectively seen—earl}'- changes, definite bony changes affecting cliiefly the iliac portion of the acetabulum, and extensive changes in both femur and acetabulum. Tuberculous disease of the hip-joint, associated with necrosis and the formation of a sequestrum in the head and neck of the femur, is well illustrated in Plate 49, Fig. 1. Here is to be seen an abscess cavity containing a sequestrum and communicating with the joint. Fig. 2 is a radiogram of a case in which a similar process resulted in collapse of the neck of the femur. Tlie differential diagnosis of tul)er- culous diseases of the hip-joint is greatly simplified by radiographic examination. Even in the early stages, when little or no evidence can be secured, it is of some advantage to know, should the disease l)e suspected clinically, that no obvious bony change has developed. In the later stages the extent of the involvement of bone may be ascertained, and the condition of the joint with regard to treatment and prognosis deduced. Knee-joint.—As in the case of the hip-joint. X-ray examination may be useful in determining the extent and position of the focus of destruction of bone. Plate 49, Fig. 3, shows two views at right-angle planes of a knee-joint in which the position and extent of locaUzed tubercular disease of the lower epiphysis and of the femur are seen in the position indicated. Fig. 4 shows a very early stage in which there is irregularity of outhne of the articular surface of the lower epiphysis of the femur, together with increased translucency and irregularity of structure. Plate 50, Fig. 1, demonstrates late and extensive bony changes of the upper epiphysis of the tibia and the lower epiphysis of the femur. Carpus and tarsus.—In children, tuberculous disease of the carpus results in an appearance of advanced ossification of the epi- physes, associated with irregularity of their outline. Plate 5U, Fig. 2, is an example of tuberculous disease affecting the carpus. In tarsal bones, should the disease be localized in one joint, it is possible to see which joint is aft'ected, and to what extent, as in Fig. 3—a case of disease of the scapho-astragaloid articulation. Sacro-iliac joint.—As in other joints, tubercidous disease asso- ciated with destruction of the bone is capable, at any rate in its later stages, of demonstration by X-ray examination. BONE FRACTURES The possibility of securing a shadow of the bones by X-rays pro- vides a certain means of investigating injury of these structures ; but even in the most straightforward cases care must be exercised.- Thus, in simjjle fractures of the long bones it is often considered