SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 54 both on the length of the chains and on the extent to wliich these chams become coiled. In a gelatin-stab (at 22° C.) growth takes place rather slowly, and at this temperatnre the medium is not jjeptonized by the culture. Growth appears along the stab in the form of a series of small rounded colonies wJiich afterwards become fused. Very little if any surface growth occurs. On the surface of agar there are formed a number of tiny, delicate-looking, greyish colonies, which are somewhat trans- lucent. Even when few in number the colonies never reach any con- siderable size, and Avhen they are numerous and thickly set they do not completely fuse. On potato, usually, no visible growth occurs. In cultm'e niany minor variations appear, and some of them have been made use of in attempts to devise a definite classification of strep- tococci. Thus the fermentation tests introduced by Gordon have been applied by Andrewes and Horder to distinguish six main varieties of this micro-organism. But into these details it is not necessary to enter here. On the whole it may be stated that the long-chained forms will be found to be more virulent than the shorter ones. The strep- tococci are delicate in culture, and imless transplanted will usually die out in from two or three days to about a fortnight. But if dried up, as, for example, in dried pus and other discharges, they can survive and retain their virulence, at any rate for months. Some strains can resist a temperature of 60° C. for an hour or more, but they are killed by an exposure to 70° C. for the same period. A 3 per cent, carbolic-acid solution kills the organism within a few minutes. Different streptococci ferment solutions of various sugars in different degrees with a production of carbonic-acid gas. They also produce lactic acid, and several acids of the fatty-acid series (formic, acetic, etc.). Specific toxins have not been isolated from their cultures, but toxic albumoses, hfemolytic substances, and other poisonous bodies are found in bouillon ciiltures of the organism. Rabbits and mice are the laboratory animals most susceptible to the action of streptococci, but to produce pathological effects a rela- tively large anioimt must be inoculated. By passage through a series of animals the virulence of a streptococcus for that particular animal (e.g. the mouse) can be enormously increased. An animal dying of experimental streptococcus infection will usually exhibit a local inflammation and perhaps an abscess at the site of inoculation, enlargement of the spleen, and a condition of general septicsemia. If death has been delayed for several days, metastatic abscesses will probably be found in many organs. In man the distribution of the organisms is in some ways similar to that of the staphylococci. There is, however, usually a greater virulence in the infection, and a marked tendency to the production of spreading