221 TREATMENT OF SENILE GANGRENE by gentle exercise, massage, and warm baths, of wliicli the tempera- ture should not at first exceed 100° F. The feet must be kept scru- pulously clean, the nails carefully pared, and the patient cautioned against injury either by wearing tight boots or by lacerating the skin when cutting nails and corns. The feet and legs should be kept warm with thick woollen stockings ; they should never be heated before a hot fire, for, sensation being diminished, dangerous congestion or possible scorching may precipitate the onset of gangrene; while ex- posure to cold in frosty weather has a similar effect. The diet should be light and nourishing, the amount of alcohol taken reduced to a minimum or, better, discontinued altogether, and small doses of opium administered for the purpose of relieving pain, dilating the capillaries, and reducing the amount of sugar should the condition be compli- cated by glycosuria. Once gangrene has developed, all exercise must be stopped, the foot and leg, after being rendered, as far as possible, aseptic by the methods described (p. 209), should be wrapped in sterilized gauze and plenty of wool, and raised on a chair, or placed on pillows if the patient is confined to bed. A daily dressing will usually suffice, but. if the necrotic process exhibits the slightest tendency to become moist, frequent changes will be necessary. When local conditions are favourable and the gangrene is limited to a small area of skin, the black patch may fall off and the ulcer heal ; or if the whole toe is involved, and both local reaction and general constitutional symptoms are slight, it may be allowed to separate naturally, aided by an occasional snip (through dead tissues) with sterilized scissors. Should the gangrene be spreading, or should it be accompanied by severe pain and exhaustion, the question of early atnputation requires careful consideration. The decision will be influenced by the age of the patient, for it may be taken as a general rule that the older the patient the less is he able to survive a long and exhausting illness. Hence the practice nowadays is to resort to amputation at a much earlier date than formerly, with corresponding improvement in the results. With regard to the site of amputation, experience has amply proved that the high amputation advocated by Hutchinson in 1884 —e.g. amputation above the knee—is the one method of ensuring success. In this situation the tissues are well supplied with blood, primary union of the flaps is practically assured, and a sound stump is obtained which allows of an artificial limb being readily adjusted and easily worn. Amputation through the upper part of the leg is very often followed by gangrene and sloughing of the flaps, necessitat- ing a second amputation when the patient's strength is further sapped by septic absorption ; and even in the event of its being successful, the extra length of limb that is preserved is of very slight advantage