622 X-RAY EXAMINATION representing the abscess cavity, is clearly seen in the position in- dicated by an arrow, and the lateral incisor is evidently the tooth at fault. Dentigerous cysts are readily recognized by the presence of unerupted teeth, which are plainly distinguishable by X-ray examina- tion. Plate 36, Fig. 4, is a radiogram showing how simple it is to demonstrate unerupted teeth. Sarcomas.—The characteristic appearance of these tumours growing from bone is dealt with later, but in the jaw their recognition is rendered less easy on account of the difficulty of securing an uninterrupted view. Examination of the pharynx.—X-ray examination of the pharynx is most useful in discovering the position of foreign bodies, should they be opaque to the rays. It is all-important in these investigations to attempt to secure the radiogram without any attempts to swallow, or other movements, on the part of the patient. If this is successfully accomplished, a demonstration of the outline of the pharynx is obtained, and the exact relationship of the foreign body to recognizable anatomical sites is determined. The jjresence of a calculus in the salivary duct is easily distinguish- able by radiography, and will be found illustrated in Plate 37, Fig. 1. A small oval opacity is to be seen in the position indicated with an arrow, representing a calculus in the sublingual duct close to its origin in the gland. DISEASES OF THE GASTRO-INTESTINAL TRACT The size ard position of the stomach may be ascertained by giving the patient a meal composed of bread-and-milk and bismuth. The bread-and-milk is prepared in the usual manner, but of thick consis- tency ; the bismuth is best made up in the form of an emulsion with pulv. tragacanth. co. and added to the bread-and-milk in the propor- tions of one ounce to the pint, care being taken that the purest bismuth carbonate is employed ; bismuth subnitrate is unsuitable, owing to the liability to ill effects from large doses. On viewing the abdomen with the fluorescent screen, the outline of the stomach and its relation to external anatomical points can now be easily ascertained. This method of investigation, first used on cats by Cannon, has upset many preconceived ideas as to the movements and normal positions of the stomach. Examining the human stomach in this way. Hertz found that after taldng food the normal position of the organ was vertical. The cardiac half of the stomach was in a condition of tone, which gradually increased as the pyloric half emptied itself into the duodenum. Peristaltic waves occurred only in the pyloric half, and