288 MILITARY SURGERY spleen, or kidney may be severely lacerated, and any hollow organ containing fluid may be burst and torn open. Such injuries are quickly fatal. Injuries of the omentum and mesentery give rise to hsemorrhage, often persistent and fatal. Prolapse of omentum or of intestine through the external wounds is possible only when these are large, as in sword cuts or wounds from large missiles. In most abdominal wounds multiple injuries are present; several organs may be involved, there may be many perforations in the intestines, and neighbouring regions—the chest, spine, or lower limb—are frequently wounded. Definite symptoms of injury to any particular organ are usually wanting, and the general symptoms are often very slight, particularly in the early stages. Many cases recover with so little trouble that the nature of the injury remains doubtful, though the course the bullet has taken may indicate that certain organs have probably been wounded. Death may occur either early, from shock and haemorrhage in the more severely Avounded cases, or later from peritonitis. It is practically impossible when a patient is first seen to form any opinion as to whether peritonitis will develop or not. The intestine may have escaped j>erforation by the bullet, as has already been mentioned. If the wounds in the intestine are all small, and are few in number, escape of the intestinal contents is checked at first by the mucous membrane blocking the holes, then adhesions form to adjacent coils, and so no infection of the peritoneum occurs. The sealing of the perforations is favoured by the bowel being empty when it is wounded, and especially by the patient being left undisturbed long enough to allow adhesions to form. On the other hand, if the wounds in the intestine are large or numerous, general peritonitis is almost certain to follow. The most dangerous injuries are those of the small intestine, and when a bullet has traversed the small-intestine area the prognosis is grave. Wounds of the large intestine are less serious, and leakage from them may lead to the formation of a localized abscess only, instead of general peritonitis. Wounds of the retroperitoneal surface of the large intestine are very fatal, giving rise to spreading cellulitis. Wounds of the rectum are not very serious. They are sometimes followed by pelvic abscesses, or by faecal abscesses in the buttock or thigh from infection of the bullet track. Wounds of the stomach are liable to cause subphrenic abscess. Wounds of the liver seldom give much trouble, but abscesses in the liver may form, or a biliary fistula remain open for some time. Wounds of the spleen are dangerous from hsemorrhage, which is often fatal, though it has been known to cease spontaneously. Wounds of the pancreas are rare, and are always accompanied by other abdominal injuries. Haemorrhage and escape of the pancreatic secretion are the dangers. Wounds of