657 CHOICE OF ANESTHETIC and, on the other hand, it may be safely used in the case of infants or of the most feeble. In the latter instances care is required not to overdose ; only a small portion of the mask's surface should be allowed to be moist with the mixture. Turnino- now to the choice of ana^stlietic for a more expert administrator who is not confined to a routine measure, we must take into consideration : (1) the safety of the patient ; (2) the con- venience of the operator, which involves the consideration of the kind of ansestliesia available with each particular anaesthetic, and its suit- ability to the requirements of the case in question. Thus, nitrous = oxide with oxygen or air is the safest anaesthetic at our dis- posal, yet the fact tliat it cannot always be relied on to produce mus- cular relaxation or perfect stillness when sensitive parts are handled limits its applicability. This limitation is emphasized by the cum- brous nature of the apparatus, which renders it impossible to carry as much of the gas as would be needed for a long operation. More- over, the necessary changing of cylinders is a liiglily inconvenient proceeding during administration. Therefore, although nitrous-oxide has been continuously administered in hospital for over two hours, it is best reserved for cases not lasting more than about ten minutes at the most, in which muscular relaxation is not essential to success, and in which esj)ecially sensitive parts of the body are not involved. Eemoval of teetli, or of small tumours or sebaceous cysts, opening of abscesses, amputation of fingers, and dressings of a painful character are common occasions when nitrous-oxide is most suitably employed. Nitrous-oxide is not a safe auiiesthetic in cases where there is dyspncea. Mechanical narrowing of the air-passages—e.g. cellulitis of the neck with oedema of the glottis—emphatically contra-indicates the use of " gas " or any anresthetic that is not given on an open mask along with free supply of air. Next to nitrous-oxide in point of safety comes ether, which should be chosen for the majority of cases which are not met by the former anEcsthetic. Ether is to be avoided, however, for all cases where there is an acute affection of the air-passages—e.g. diphtheria, acute bronchitis, and active phthisis. In active phthisis cJdorofonn should be employed. The cases in which ethyl-chloride is of special advantage are those in which nitrous-oxide is not suitable, but the time required is short. Thus, small children who are to have tonsils and adenoids removed, abscesses opened, etc., provide a field in which this drug is of great use, particularly in hospital practice, where time is a pressing question. Nervous people, who are anxious to become unconscious quickly, are also subjects with whom ethyl-chloride may be employed with special benefit. 2 Q