332 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES The same may be said of the other diffusible stimulants, such as ether, ammonia, and sal-volatile. Ether is sometimes given whilst the patient is under ether anesthesia, a proceeding which is hardly rational. In the milder forms of shock it is possible that recovery is hastened by the use of these drugs ; but even that is doubtful, and their use in severe forms of shock is almost certainly harmful. Caffeine acts more directly on the heart muscle, causing it to beat more forcibly and £0 bringing about a rise in blood pressure ; but its effect is tem- porary and is probably of little value in the severer forms of shock, whilst in the slighter forms it is unnecessary. (6) Peripheral vaso-constrictors.—The use of drugs which cause vaso-constriction by peripheral action on the muscular coats of the arteries has been advocated in the treatment of shock as a means of raising the blood pressure without stimulating the central nervous system. The method conforms to the rational treat- ment of shock, and many drugs have been tried. That which has been most largely used for this purpose is adrenalin (the extract of the medulla of the suprarenal gland), as it is found to cause a marked vaso-constriction in the healthy and in the shocked animal, and its action is apparent in an animal whose central nervous system has been destroyed by pithing. It has, however, little value if given by subcutaneous or intramuscular injection, especially when shock is present, and it should always be given intravenously. Its value is discounted by its transitory effects, for it is rapidly oxidized by the tissues and the rise of blood pressure only lasts for a few minutes after a therapeutical injection. It is therefore best given by continuous venous infusion in dilute solution (1-50,000, 1-100,000) with warm normal saline, and will then tend continuously to raise the blood pressure. The toxic effects, if it is given in minute doses, are negligible. An extract of another of the ductless glands of the body has recently been advocated in the treatment of shock. It has been found that extract of the posterior lobe o/ the pituitary body causes a marked vaso-constriction by peripheral action, and that the vaso- constriction lasts for a much longer time after a single injection than in the case of adrenalin, so that the drug need not be given continu- ously. Further experimental and clinical investigation in the use of this drug is necessary before its value can be assigned to it, and there is need to estimate its dosage and its possible toxic effects. As to other drugs, ergot and ergotin are found to cause a general rise of blood pressure by peripheral action on the muscular coats of the arteries, and they are of value in the treatment of shock; but the pressure is not maintained and the effect is much less on the shocked than on the normal animal.