TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS: MERCURY 767 Calomel.—Tkis has long proved itself to be the most potent salt of mercury in its power over syphilis in all stages. It acts energetic- ally in acute as in old-standing cases, but, owing to the disadvantage already stated above, it has been limited to the treatment of certain special cases. Now, however, the pain which was at times almost intolerable can be controlled by the use of the creosote and camphoric- acid combination already described. For some years past I have been using calomel with impunity. The following is the formula for calomel cream :— Calomel purified ....... grm. v. " Creo-cainph" . . . . . . . c.c. xx. Pahnitin basis ...... ad c.c. c. Il[x = calomel i gr. Dose : Vi\x to Il\xv pev week. The action of calomel, although remarkably energetic and rapid, is short-lived as compared with that of metallic mercury. Hence it will never take the place of the latter in the routine treatment of syphilis, but will be reserved more for dispersing early signs and for cases (e.g. cerebral and spinal cases) in which a rapid action is desired. Salicylate of mercury is much used on the Continent, especi- ally in Germany. For some time I employed it fairly extensively, giving J gr. suspended in liquid paraffin twice a week, but I found it inferior to either mercury or calomel. Technique of the intramuscular method.—The follow- ing rules should be strictly adhered to :— 1. The syringe should be of glass. 2. The needles must be of either platinum-iridium or gold ; maximum length, inch. Steel needles should not be used, as they are apt to snap. 3. The points of the needles must be kept keen to facilitate penetration and thus lessen pain. 4. Both needles and syringe should b_' thoroughly sterilized in oil heated to 160° F. 5. The injections must be given " into the muscles," and not subcutaneously. 6. The skin over the site of injection is to be cleansed and Bwabbed over with an antiseptic lotion before being punctured. 7. The syringe must be laid on a cloth wrung out of 1 in 20 carbolic-acid solution. 8. No cotton-wool or other fluffy material is to be used for wiping the needles ; they must be wiped with pieces of sterilized linen or gauze.