SPINAL ANALGESIA .694 no bad after-effects. This, however, is denied by Braun, who says it has produced " local tissue-irritation and gangrene." 5. Stovaine is soluble in water and slightly acid in reaction. Barker's solution, prepared by Billon of Paris, is the most convenient form, and contains 0"05 grm. of stovaine and glucose respectively in each c.c. This solution is non-irritating and only slightly toxic. It has perhaps been more largely used in this country than any other analgesic. It is incompatible with mercury, iodine, iodides, and alkalis. 6. Novocaine, the most recent of the analgesics, is readily soluble in water and is neutral in reaction. It can be boiled without decom- position and is much less toxic than cocaine. It is used in 5 per cent, solution in doses of from 2 c.c. to 3 c.c. combined with suprarenin borate, which is unnecessary and certainly inadvisable. Preparation of patients and instruments.—No special diet is required as in the case of general anaesthesia, but where the patient is old or feeble, light nourishment should be given just before operation. It is very important that the rectum should be thoroughly cleared before operation, owing to the marked relaxation of the sphinc- ters in spinal analgesia. Where high analgesia is intended, it is wise to give an injection of strychnine hypodermically on the table. The site of puncture must be treated just as if an operation were contem- plated there, a compress being applied the night before. In urgency operations the cleansing must be very thorough, the part being treated with turpentine, ether soap, and spirit. Previous to sterilization, the needles, cannula, and syringe must be freed from all trace of grease by immersion in ether. They are then boiled in the usual way ivitltout the use of soda or any alkali. After use the greatest care must be taken to guard against rust, since otherwise there is every probability that on the next occasion the cannula will refuse to pass through the needles, and be bent or broken. Instruments used.—By far the best of these are the syringe and needles designed by Barker (Fig. 19-3). The former consists of a glass barrel in metal mounts, with a worked metal plunger, graduated to measure 2 c.c, each of the divisions being subdivided into five, and each subdivision representing 1 eg. of stovaine and 1 eg. of glucose. The needles, into the shoulder of which the nozzle of the cannula accurately fits, are 3-25 in. in length, and have their points bevelled off at rather an obtuse angle. They are fitted with stylets similarly bevelled, having a tooth which fits into a slot cut in the shoulder of the needles, to ensure the bevelled surfaces accurately corresponding. The cannula is made to pass easily through the needles and to project about 1 mm. beyond their points. The object