DISEASES OF THE CHEST 647 (a condition which they may cause) ; thus tlie increased pressure underneatli the right diaphragm pushes it high up into the pleural cavity, and should only a part of the upper surface of the liver be affected by the abscess, causing irregularity of its outline, the diaj^hragm will show a corresponding irregularity of outline, an appearance which is particularly characteristic of this disease. When such abscesses as these burst into the bronclii, the track in the thorax followed by the pus can be observed. Malignant disease of the liver produces an appearance which may be confused with that caused by the above disease, but clinical facts are usuall}' available to prevent any con- fusion between the two conditions. Mediastinal tumours—-Tumours in the mediastina, whether sarcomas, carcinomas, or tuberculous glands, can be recognized by X-ray examination. The appearance presented may sometimes be difficult to differentiate from aneurysm of the thoracic aorta, but the following facts serve to distinguish them : (I) The shadow tumours cast is not so opaque as that of aneurysm. (2) The increase in the median opacity is gradual, and not abrupt as is usually the case in aneurysm. (3) The increase in the median opacity takes place equally towards the right and the left. (4) The outline of the shadow cast by them may be irregular. (5) No pulsation is to be observed. Nevertheless, it is not possible to differentiate by X-ray examination the several kinds of mediastinal tumour. Viewed in the postero-anterior direction, a mediastinal tumour is represented by an increase in the median opacity of the thorax towards the right and left, and the condition is well illustrated in Plate 66, Fig. f. Thoracic aneurysm.—This disease is of interest to the sur- geon, not so much from the point of view of treatment as from the necessity of excluding its presence in investigating diseases of the a?sophagus. That a comparatively sure means of doing so is avail- able is therefore a matter of high importance. In order to under- stand how aneurysm of the aorta appears from an X-ray point of view, it is necessary to possess some knowledge of the normal shadows cast by the heart and thoracic aorta. Viewed in an antero-jiosterior direction, the lower part of the thorax is occupied by an opacity corre- sponding to the heart, from the upper border of which, in the middle line, an opaque area, corresponding to the shadow cast by the verte- brae, sternum, and aorta, extends into the neck. This latter oj^aque area is referred to as the median opacity of the chest, and towards the right its outline is almost horizontal, whereas, townrds the left and upper end, there is normally a distinct bulge corresponding to the junction between the transverse and the descending aorta (left lateral aortic bulge). The lower end of the median opacity on the left side merges into the left 1)order of tlie heart shadow. Viewed