368 TUMOURS A soft fibrous tumour of the skin is not uncommon and is often known as molluscum fibrosuni. In many cases the tumours are mul- tiple and are associated witli multiple subcutaneous fibrous nodules. These forms take origin in cutaneous nerves and will be described subse- quently (p. 371). A single molluscum fibrosuni of the skin may, how- ever, occur without any evidence of this mode of origin. It forms at first a small, soft, conical projection, which as it increases may become lobulated, pedunculated and pendulous. It has a strikingly soft consistence, and often gives the sensation of an imperfectly filled sac of loose, wrinkled skin. There is good reason for believing that even the multiple growths having the features of molluscum fibrosum are not always instances of neuro-fibromatosis, but are sometimes simple fibromas. In 1873, John Murray brought before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society the cases of three children of one family who were the subjects of multiple growths of this nature, associated with tumours of the gums and mental instability. The growths from one of these patients, who died thirty years later, were investigated by Robinson and Whitfield, and no evidence of nerve fibres was found in them. The tumours in this case, and in one of the others in which the patient had survived, had greatly increased, so that those on the head gave rise to hideous deformity. Large, soft, fibrous tumours have often been met with in the ears of the coloured races. They are thought to originate in connexion with the punctures made for the insertion of earrings, and thus to be allied to cheloid. Cheloid, although not strictly speaking a true tumour, needs passing mention. It is a fibrous growth originating in cicatrices. A precisely similar form of cutaneous growth has been met with, especially in the skin over the sternum, in which there is no proof that the growth took origin in a scar. In view, however, of the fact that it is well known that cheloid may originate in such trivial scars as those resulting from acne, leechbites, etc., it is possible that all cheloids have a similar mode of origin. A cheloid forms a firm, smooth, whitish or pinldsh, sUghtly raised patch, the margin of which is abrupt and often presents pointed claw-hke processes, from which the name is derived. It is usually tender and sometimes the seat of spontaneous pain. When originating in an obvious cicatrix the new growth extends from the scar into the surrounding sldn, and is thus distinguished from a scar which has merely become hypertrophied. The fibrous tissue composing the growth is dense, and the bundles of fibres are usually arranged parallel to the surface. The overgrowth appears to begin aroimd the blood-vessels, and may extend along these beyond the edge of the raised tumour.