21 MOTILITY-CHEMIOTAXIS retrace its path, until some new influence again arrests or modifies its movement. Associated with the movement of progression, or independently, tlie organism may exhibit a rotation on its axis, and this in different cases may be either alternating—now in the direction of the hands of a watch, now in the opposite direction—or it may be limited, as in the spirilla, to one direction only, the micro-organism rotating always either to the right or to the left according as the screw of its spiral is right- or left-handed. The rate of movement varies greatly in the different motile forms, some moving witir a remarkable rapidity (as much as twenty or thirty times their own length in a single second), while in others the motion is extremely slow, so that it is often difficult to distinguish it at all. The activity of movement is dependent in a high degree on the conditions which surround the micro-organisms, and is particularly affected by the temperature, the gaseous environ- ment, and the concentration of the medium in respect of salts. The motility of bacteria is of considerable importance in connexion with the study of the phenomenon of chemiotaxis. vii. Chemiotaxis.—Under this term may be included a variety of similar phenomena exhibited by bacteria under the action of chemical substances, of light of different colours, of gases, of electric currents and the like. They depend on a definite attraction or repulsion of the organisms by the agency in question, which is expressed in the terms " positive and " negative " chemiotactic action. Though it might at first appear from some experiments that this special action of different substances on bacteria is a qualitative one, it is found on more exact investigation that in the greater number of cases, at any rate, the difference is really only quantitative, and that the attraction or repulsion of the organisms depends upon the strength and concentration of the agent under investigation. Thus if a particular substance in solution is found to attract certain bacteria in a given concentration, then as its concentration is increased the attraction will gradually increase to a maximum. Further increase of strength beyond this point will lead to progressively diminishinij attraction, and finally to definite repulsion, of the organism concerned. So far as present knowledge goes, it is impossible to establish any general relation between the chemical constitution or the nutritive value to the bacteria of the substances employed and the character of the chemiotaxis which results. Thus it may be found that valuable food- stuffs (e.g. sugar) may exert only the slightest positive action or none at all, while many substances which are distinctly harmful, and perhaps even destructive to bacterial life, exhibit a definite positive chemio- taxis (e.g. salts of mercury and other heavy metals). In the case of light of different colours, and of various gases (e.g. oxygen at different