TUMOURS 446 PAPILLOMA A papilloma is a simple tumour which, in its structure, corre- sponds more or less closely with the papillae that are normally present in the skin and some mucous membranes. A papilla consists of a connective-tissue outgrowth, containing looping blood- and lymph- vessels, and covered with epithelium of the stratified or columnar type. In a j^apilloma the component papillae attain a size much greater than the normal, and are often compound, secondary papillae springing from the primary ones. In this way the tumour may assume a large size and a most complex structure, the papillae some- times taking the form of delicate branching villous processes, or at other times being fewer in number and club-shaped, so that the tumour presents a cauliflower-like appearance. In other tumours, especially those covered with stratified epithelium, the intervals between adjacent papillae are so completely occupied by the pro- liferated epithelium that the villous character of the surface is lost, and the tumour is merely velvety, warty, or nearly smooth. Papillomas may be sessile or pedunculated, and sometimes the pedicle of even a large tumour is very slender. In considering tumours of papillary structure, it is necessary to point out that it is extremely difficult to draw a sharp line of distinc- tion between the true papillomas and certain papillary hyperplasias resulting from chronic inflammation of the skin and those mucous surfaces in which papillae are normally present, and it may be well to give a few illustrative instances. As the result of the irritation of gonorrhceal and other discharges, extensive papillomatous formations are not uncommon on and around the external genitalia (venereal warts). In certain forms of chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane of the tongue the formation of localized warty growths is a not uncommon manifestation. Tuberculosis of the skin and mucous membranes frequently assumes a form in which the papillary character is so marked as closely to simulate a tumour. This is particularly striking in the form of tuber- culosis of the skin known as lupus verrucosus, as well as in some forms of tuberculous disease of the intestines, especially the caecum and rectum, where the resemblance to a tumour may be very close. Other instances of the formation of papillomatous gxowths as the result of direct local irritation are afforded by cases in which villous outgrowths of the pelvis of the kidney have been found in association with calculi, and by an analogous case recorded by Rolleston, in which a papilloma of the common bile-duct was apparently due to the irritation of a gall-stone, the growth being similar to those