258 WOUNDS AND WOUND TREATMENT cleansing processes are repeated, followed this time by dry dressing, or again by a weak antiseptic compress, whicli is not disturbed until the patient is on the table ready for operation. It is then removed, and the part washed over with spirit or other lotion. If the previous cleansing be trustworthy it seems to us unnecessary to " wash-up " again on the table, as is the practice of many surgeons. In emergency cases, reliance must be placed on thorough washing at the time of operation ; and some surgeons are content to depend on such immediate cleansing even in cases where time would permit the longer process. Quite recently the useful method of skin disinfection by iodine has come into vogue. It is simple, rapid, apparently trustworthy, and especially suitable for emergency operations. A practical point is the necessity for avoidance of the immediate preliminary use of soap and water, which, by causing swelling of the prickle-cell layer, prevents thorough permeation by the iodine. The part should either be shaved twelve hours previously with soap and water, or dry-shaved just before the operation, and then painted with the chosen preparation of iodine. By many the official tincture is used, but this tends to produce an erythema. Others use a 1 per cent, solution in benzine (Bogdan), or in benzine and paraffin (Esau). Esau's formula is—■ Tinct. iodi 10 Benzine ....... 750 Liquid jDaraffin ...... 250 These formulae have the advantage of containing an efficient fat- solvent in addition to the antiseptic. Iodine may also be used in chloroform solution (1-15), and this possesses the merit of forming a more stable preparation than the tincture. Zabludowski reports excellent results from the use of a 5 per cent, alcoholic (96 per cent.) solution of tannin both for the surgeon's hands and for the skin of the patient. It has the advantage that it can be used after soap and water. Acetone also affords a useful method of skin preparation. Acetone, by itself, is a feeble antiseptic. Combined, however, with iodine or with alcohol (equal parts of acetone and 95 per cent, alcohol) it gives excellent results. But it has one drawback : it is intensely irritating to some people, producing profuse lachrymation and coryza. In order to overcome this difficulty A. J. Wallace has introduced a combination of dichloride of ethylene and iodine which possesses all the solvent without any of the irritating properties of acetone. The use of this combination entirely does away with the need for prolonged cleansing, compresses, etc., and for this reason adds to the mental