REPAIR OF BONE AND OF VESSELS 159 bone, and on tlie nature of the injury. In fracture of the sliafts of long bones the amount of callus formed is considerable, whereas in fracture of the cranial bones very little callus can be detected. Repair of fractures of the epiphyseal ends of bones is usually unaccompanied by much callus. Where the ends of the bones are not accurately in apposition there may be a considerable amount of callus, and in some cases the jjroportion of fibrous tissue to bone is so excessive that bony union is prevented. Compound fractures lieal in the same manner as that described, but if infection of the wound has taken place the union may be con- siderably delayed, and not uncommonly necrosis of portions of the bone may occur. In all forms of bony union the callus which is formed is usually more abundant than is necessary for the purposes of repair ; but this excess is gradually absorbed. It is generally agreed that the absorption is brought about by large multinucleated cells, known as osteoclasts, though some authors regard the absorj^tion as an atrophic or regressive change which takes place quite independently of these large multi- nucleated cells. In the closing of cavities in bone—e.g. trephine wounds—the re- placed bone acts merely as a scaffold, and as the granidation tissue or osteoid tissue gradually grows into it from the periosteum and from the bone at the edges of the wound, it is slowly absorbed. The healing process is thus identical with that described for fractures. HEALING IN VESSELS The processes which take place are exactly alike, whether the wound be a small punctm'ed one, or one in which the vessel is com- pletely severed. In the latter case the haemorrhage may be stopped by the retraction of the ends of the vessel causing a narrowing of its lumen, by the curled-up inner layers forming, as it were, a plug in the lumen, or artificially by pressm-e. Thrombosis in all cases is the first stage in repair. This thrombus, which is formed at first by an aggregation of blood platelets, to which red blood-corpuscles, leucocytes, and fibrin are added later, may be very small, or it may occupy a vary- ing length of the lumen of the vessel. The endothelial lining of the vessels undergoes proliferative changes, and may grow over the throm- bus, isolating it from the general hunen of the vessel. If the thrombus is small and parietal, it may become completely covered by this endo- thelial growth and the liunen of the vessel be again made quite patent. Some authorities maintain that the endothelium grows into the clot and is actually the progenitor of the fibrous tissue by which the tlirombus is eventually replaced. With this view I cannot agree.