315 HEMORRHAGE : INFUSION and a double ligature is passed round it and the lower end secured. A small slit is then made across the vein and the cannula introduced and secured in the vein by means of the upper ligature. The bandage round the upper arm is then removed. The saline fluid, which should be at a temperature of lO'f F., may be injected by means of a syringe with a double way or run into the vein directly from a flask raised slightly above the level of the arm. The infusion should be carried out slowly under slight pressure, and great care should be taken that no air enters with the fluid, otherwise serious consequences may result. From two to five pints, according to the amount of blood lost, the age of the patient, and the degree of shock, should be infused, and the infusion may be repeated if desirable. If during the infusion the patient should become dyspnojic and cyanosed, or suffer from syncope, the infusion must be at once stopped, and artificial respiration carried out if necessary. When sufficient fluid has been injected, as shown by the state of the pulse, the cannula is removed and the proximal end of the vein tied. The wound in the arm is sutured and a light dressing applied. It should be remembered that the brachial artery lies immediately beneath the vein, separated from it by the bicipital fascia, and that injury to this artery may result in an arterio-venous aneurysm. Intra- venous saline infusion is not infrequently followed by a mUd rigor and a slight rise of temperature, but there are no permanent ill effects. It must be clearly imderstood that the infusion of fluid is contra- indicated until the htemorrhage has fuially ceased and the vessel has been securely closed, although Crile believes that direct transfusion of blood will bring about an arrest of heemorrhage, as well as relieve its consec^uences. After a severe luvmorrhage that does not terminate fatally, the blood-serum is rapidly restored by absorption of water, albumin, and salts from the tissues ; but the restoration of the red blood-corpuscles takes longer. These corpuscles are manufactured by the red bone- marrow of the long bones and the vertebra^. In young subjects regeneration begins after forty-eight hours, and the process, even following a severe htTemorrhage, is complete in six weeks, and often sooner : but, as has already been pointed out. in the elderly and aged a serious loss of blood seldom ends in complete recovery, the patient remaining permanently anaemic. After a loss of blood the patient should be placed imder tlie oest hygienic conditions, with plenty of fi-esh air and smilight. The diet should be plentiful, light, and nutritious ; whilst iron, arsenic, tonics, and cod-liver oil should be given.