TUMOURS 468 be expected, particularly in tliose superficial forms of the disease wliicli affect tlie slcin and mucous membranes. In dealing with the different varieties of carcinoma of the skin, reference will be made from time to time to this subject, and it is only necessary in this place to mention such striking instances as the development of cancer of the skin in chimney-sweeps and in workers with tar and paraffin, its occurrence in the Kashmiris from the irritation of the sldn of the abdomen and thighs caused by portable stoves of heated charcoal, and the still more strildng occurrence of the disease fi'om the prolonged action of X-rays. In all these instances a dermatitis, usually of long duration, precedes the actual development of the mahgnant growth. The nature of the irritant evidently varies widely, and may be mechanical, thermal, chemical, or infective ; but in some instances the causation is possibly more complex, as in the cancer of the scrotum occurring in chimney-sweeps, in which it is uncertain whether the irritation is mechanical or due to some chemical constituent of the soot, such as arsenic, which it is known can by internal administration occasion a chronic dermatitis upon which carcinoma sometimes super- venes. In the case of squamous carcinoma of the skin it may indeed be said that the disease very rarely arises in a previously normal surface, and its occurrence in ulcers, sinuses, and cicatrices will subsequently be mentioned. Lenthal Cheatle, from an extensive series of observations of carci- noma of the skin, has suggested that the action of chronic irritation in causing the disease may take place, in part at least, by its effect upon the peripheral nerves. He has found instances in which squamous carcinoma arises at those points at which the superficial nerves become cutaneous, and, especially in the case of growths involving the skin of the face, has adduced evidence which seems to suggest that the spread of the disease is influenced by the cutaneous nerve distribution. Cheatle has extended his observations to the posterior root ganglia corresponding to the nerves supplying the area of incidence of cutaneous cancer, and claims in more than one case to have found distinct evidences of inflammatory change in them. If the facts observed in this connexion are more than accidental, they suggest that the role of chronic irritation in the causation of malignant disease is more complex than is usually supposed. In the mucous membranes many striking illustrations of the effect of chronic irritation are seen, although, partly on account of the greater difficulty of observation, they are less numerous than in the skin. Reference may, however, be made to the supervention of cancer of the tongue upon chronic superficial glossitis, and its occasional occurrence in the gall-bladder, and less frequently the pelvis of the Iddney, in association with calculi. In the case of the stomach, opinion differs