SPINAL ANALGESIA 702 better to use a small dose, and have to repeat it, than to administer a large one, the results of which cannot be undone. Causes of failure to enter the spinal theca.—1. The spines may be very closely set; they may be osteo-arthritic or the seat of an old injury. 2. The theca may be of very small diameter, tough, or thickened by old pachymeningitis. 3. The needle-point may be blunt, or may be turned by encoun- tering bone during its passage, and so may push the theca before it without perforating it. 4. Inaccuracy of direction may carry the needle to one side or other ; this may easily happen if the patient's body is twisted on the table. 5. In very stout patients, in whom the bony landmarks are absent, accurate judgment is necessarily replaced by pure guesswork. Causes of failure to get a good flow of cerebro- spinal fluid.—1. In old and wasted patients deficiency of fluid may be the cause. 2. In some cases failure is probably due to the rush of fluid carry- ing a nerve cord, or a fold of arachnoid, against the orifice of the needle ; this difficulty can often be got over by rotating the latter so that the orifice faces in a different direction. 3. The theca, instead of being punctured in the centre, may be entered at one side ; or the needle, if passed too rapidly with the stylet in place, may traverse the theca and emerge on the anterior surface. In such cases a very small quantity of fluid may pass out of the needle, but as soon as the cannula is inserted its orifice will be blocked, or its point will pass out of the theca and the solution be lost in the epidural space. 4. Occasionally a small vessel may be opened in the tissues of the back, and the needle become blocked with clot. This is likely to happen when a failure to find the theca in one direction is followed by a second attempt in another without entirely withdrawing and clearing the needle. Cause of failure to get satisfactory analgesia.—Pro- vided the flow of cerebro-spinal fluid has been active, the drug fresh and uncontaminated by contact with incompatibles, and the injection properly conducted, insufficient analgesia is always the result of in- sufficient dosage. Mechanical aids to sluggish rise.—Where the analgesia lags after injection, the solution can be induced to rise in the theca by one of three methods. 1. The intraventricular pressure in the brain may be diminished by causing the patient to take three or four sudden and deep inspira-