MODES OF INFECTION 789 The degrees in which errors 01 development, such as hare-lip, cleft-palate, club-foot, spina bifida, and hydrocephalus, are dependent xipon syphilis must at present remain unsettled, but in a certain proportion of cases a definite relationship seems to be suggested. Modes of infection.—Infection may be (a) germinal, i.e. through the ova and semen, the spirochjete of syphilis having been found in both. Maternal germinal infection is probably more fre- quent than paternal germinal infection ; indeed, the latter is denied by many authorities—a view difficult to disprove, owing to the fact that the mother of a syphilitic child is generally herself syphilitic. (b) Post-conceptional, i.e. through the placenta. Owing to the difficulty of finding spirocha^tes in the fcetal portion of the placenta, it has been suggested that possibly there is an intermediary form of the organism which travels along the cord. Syphilis of both parents at the time of conception has a more injurious effect on the offspring than when one parent only is infected. Further, maternal syphilis appears to be more injurious than paternal. A mother acquiring syj^hilis after conception may infect the child in utero, the danger decreasing as the pregnancy proceeds. Profeta's law states that the healthy child of a syphilitic mother, be she syphilitic at the time of conception or not till after, is immune against syphilis, but loses its immunity at puberty ; but if we accept Wassermann's test as diagnostic of syphilis, this law cannot be main- tained, for many of these children, who are to all appearance healthy, give a positive reaction, which seems to indicate that their blood contains the syphilitic antibody ; they are thus immune because they are syphilitic. In accordance with Colles's law, the mother of a syphilitic child is immune against syphilis ; here again Wassermann's reaction, being generally positive, shows that she is immune because she is syphilitic. Cases have been recorded where the mother gave a negative reaction and the child a positive. This has been taken as evidence in favour of a jjure paternal iiifection, but it is doubtful whether there is sufficient evidence to justify an absolute dependence being placed on a negative Wassermann's reaction. It is a curious fact that the mother of a syphilitic child may not show any evidence of the disease during the child-bearing period, but that after this period gummata not infrequently appear. There- fore clinical examination of the mother of a suspected child may be of very little value. The danger of producing a syphilitic child is greatest dui'ing the first year after contracting the disease ; is great during the first four years, but depends largely upon treatment; it then diminishes.