POLYMORPHS-EOSINOIMHLES "7 Summary of Ti.mf, Results after Intk M'KHnoNKAL Ixjection of B. coli NOX-FATAJ, CASKS 10 to 20 minutes : Very few polymoiphonuclear leucocytes found. 1 hour : Vt'iy slight increase in number. 2 to 2}y hours : Increase now very definite. 3 hours : A consideral)]e number present. 4.V to 6 hours : Increase now becoming marked. G to .■?() hours : Increase goes on during these hours, hut is inost marked at fi'iiin (1 to 12 hours. 30 to :>() (lull 48 hours : The iiumliers now liegin to diminish. 54 h'lurs : \ wry pronounced diminution in numbers. GO to ~rl hours : Diminution be^'omes more marked. 78 hours: Very few |)olymor])honuc]ear jcucocytcs present. 84 to 96 hours : Still a few ))resent. They may persist for a few <hiys. hut from the .")th to the 7th chiy they entirel}' disappear. FATAL CASES The cells are foinid about the same time l)ut the increase is maintained till the death of the animal. 2. Coarsely granular eosinophiles.—These cells are com- ]iarativei\- x auiN- in iionnal liloml. an,! .nc easily (listiiigiiislied Ijy their lu'illiantlv ri'd oosin-coloured "I'aiuiles. which are larger and more regtilnrh" arranged than those in the ])olvniorphonucl(>ai' leucocvtes. Tlu'ir presence in the blood in large iiunil)ers usually indicates infec- tion with an animal ])arasite, and in such cases an inHanmiatory exudate inav contain a considerable number of these cells. In certain cii-cumstances and in special infections they seem to talce the ])lace of. and act like, the i)olymorphoniiclears. Thus, Opii lias shown that in infections with Biicilhts jii/oci/aneus there may be an aliundant accumulation of eosinopliiles. It is not necessary to enter into a discussion as to the origin of these cells, Init it is important to remember that they may be found locally in abundance in cases wheic they are ap])arently not in- ci'eased in the circulating blood. In nnicous pol\"pi of the nose, which are now generallv regarded as inflammatory hyperplasias of the mucous nienibi-ane. eosinophile leucocytes may Ite found in con- siderable numiters. Again, in certain skin diseases (urticaria, pem- phigus, etc.) there may be a local increase ol eosinophiles, though usually in these cases the increase is also seen in the circulatory blood. It has l)een shown e.xperinientally that in cases of pemphigus ■where there was a local eosinopliilia, artificially produced abscesses showed only polymorphonuclear leucocytes. At present, therefore, the presence or absence of eosinophiles in inflanunatory exudates is not of special diagnostic value.