735 SECONDARY SYPHILIS from which the epithelium may be eroded. Mucous patclies of the tongue are very frequent, especially in smokers, and are usually situated on the dorsum and sides. The erythema may proceed to fisiure formation, and the epithelial thickening to leucoplakia or " psoriasis lingufe." These conditions more properly belong to the late results of syphilis, but may be seen in the secondary stage. They are prone to epitheliomatous changes. Treatment of mucous patches.—The patient must be warned of the infective character of his lesions ; smoking must be prohibited, and the lesions sprayed two or three times a day with perhydrol solu- tion (1-4) or silver nitrate (gr. v to the oimce). They may also be touched daily with a chromic acid solution (gr. v to the ounce). If improvement does not follow it may be necessary to use chromic acid (gr. XX to the ounce) or pure carbolic acid. Mouth washes of chlorate of potash, borax, perhydrol, or weak carbolic should be used daily. The nasal mucous membrane may be the seat of erythe- matous swelling, with subsequent ulceration. Nasal blockage may result from swelling of the adenoid tissue. Treatment.—-Strong applications should be avoided, and frequent spraying with mild solutions of boric acid, perhydrol, or peroxide of liydrogen adopted. Mucous patches around the anus.—These usually assume the form of cont]ijloiii'ild. and appear as broad, raised patches, with well-defined edges, and surfaces that, though sometimes dry, are much oftener moist and coated with a dirty grey secretion with a sickly smell. They are formed by cell-infiltration of the cutis, associated with overgrowth of the papillae. They may become con- fluent and involve a large area. They may form large cauliflower-like excrescences (" vegetating papules "). Treatment.—Absolute cleanliness and dryness of the parts are essential. The use of black or yellow Avash, with packing of absorbent material between the aft'ected surfaces, is efficacious. Condylomata may be destroyed with fuming nitric acid, acid nitrate of mercury, or pure carbolic acid. After cauterization the surfaces should be well cleansed, dried, and dusted with some powder, such as starch, boric acid, resorcin, or calomel, or equal parts of starch, zinc oxide, and calomel. Mucous patches and condylomata in the genito-crural folds and between the toes may be similarly treated. The larynx.—Er^-thema of the larynx may be slight and only cause moderate catarrh, with slight huskiness. It may cause a patchy, mottled appearance, or a diffuse redness. Chronic inflam- mation of the larynx is common in the later stages. Eirly laryngitis usually disappears rapidly with general antisyphilitic treatment.