156 REPAIR REPAIR IN FATTY TISSUE During the processes of healing, much of the fatty tissue becomes transformed into mucoid or mxyomatous tissue, though many of the fat cells may remain unaltered in the wound for a considerable time. At certain areas there are always to be seen collections of lymphocyte- like cells—the lymphocytes and plasma cells of some authors, or the polyblasts of Maximow. We think it probable that some of these cells may become transformed into fat cells. Maximow holds that of his polyblasts the clasmatocyte-like cells and the adventitious cells are the ones which are more particularly transformed into fat cells. REPAIR OF MUSCULAR TISSUE Unstriated muscle.—Though regeneration of this typs of muscle by division of pre-existing muscle cells must be admitted, and though in certain areas—e.g. in the middle coat of arteries in healing wounds—the formation of new muscle fibres is considerable, yet, as a general rule in wounds, the healing is almost entirely accom- plished by connective tissue. Multiplication of muscle fibres is seen in enlargements of the uterus or in hypertrophy of the muscular tissue of the stomach or intestine ; but recent work seems to show that this new formation is comparatively unimportant, the enlargement being mainly a Irue hypertrophy of the individual fibres. Heart muscle.—Again, there seems no doubt that though the muscle fibres may undergo definite proliferation, the nuclei of the cells showing evidence of mitotic division, yet healing is always brought about by the formation of fibrous tissue. Striated muscle.—In clean-cut and small incised wounds, or in cases where only a small portion of muscular tissue is destroyed, there seems to be complete regeneration of the muscle ; at any rate, it is impossible to make out, even microscopically, any evidence of the original injury. Where, however, larger amormts of muscle are injured or destroyed, union always takes place by fibrous tissue (Plate 23, Fig. 1), though there is usually some evidence of muscular regeneration. Though the healing is thus anatomically imperfect, it may be fmctionally good. If, however, the original wound has been extensive, there is very commonly contraction of the scar tissue, and contractures and deformities may result. Microscopical examination shows that degenerative changes are very marked in the muscle at the edges of the wound, and that the muscle fibres become surrounded by granulation tissue. The sarcolemma nuclei undergo definite and often very marked proliferative changes ; the new cells thus produced are phagocytic, and contain the remains of the muscle substance. Here and tliere among these cells may