828 GONORRHCEA a valuable aid to diagnosis in many obscure cases of vesical and prostatic trouble, quite apart from those arising from gonorrhoea. Treatment.— All cases of chronic urethritis can be divided into two groups :— 1. The more recent, or subacute, where, in addition to the localized areas of cellular infiltration, there is a more or less general catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane, and the presence of mucus as well as threads may be traced in the urine. 2. The inveterate or circumscribed, in which there is no general catarrh, the whole trouble being confined to definite localized portions. This group may again be divided into (a) those that affect only the mucous membrane, and (b) those that affect the submucous tissue also. Each of these forms requires a different mode of treatment. 1. Treatment of subacute urethritis.^—The first aim must be to subdue the general catarrhal condition of the mucous membrane, leaving the areas of cellular infiltration to be treated later. Experience Fig. 220.—Large syringe for irrigating the urethra. has shown that the best means of effecting this is the irrigation of the canal with mild astringent solutions. For this purpose the ordinary small urethral syringe is rarely suitable, for, as has been already explained, the anterior urethra is seldom solely affected in chronic gonorrhoea, the inflammation generally extending to the posterior portion ; consequently to use the small syringe for injection would probably leave a large portion of the inflammation untouched. This is one of the commonest errors in the treatment of gleet. It is essential to success that the irrigation fluid be brought into contact with the whole of the walls of the urethra. This may be accomplished, as has been shown in the treatment of the acute stage of posterior urethritis, by gradually increasing the pressure of the fluid injected at the meatus by means of the irrigator (Fig. 205) or large syringe (Fig. 220) until it is sufficient to overcome the spasm of the compressor urethrae. Another method is to inject the fluid by means of a soft rubber catheter passed into the posterior urethra (Diday's irrigation). It is well to select that method which causes the patient the least discomfort. The injection fluid.—Experience has shown that the organic com-