270 WOUNDS AND WOUND TREATMENT value in situations sucli as the face, where the minimum of scarring is desirable. This stitch, by avoiding needle-marks through the skin, does away with the most unsightly part of the scar of a wound which has healed by first intention. The method of applying the suture will be readily understood from Fig. 20. The suture may be entirely endermal, in which case the material is left to be absorbed, or the ends may be brought out through the Fig. 20.—Subcuticular suture. extremities of the wound, so that removal is easily accomplished by cutting off the ends and gently pulling the thread through. An interrupted suture is one in which each stitch is tied off separately. It may consist of a simple loop, as in the simple interrupted (Fig. 21), or of a double loop, as in Halsted's mattress-suture (Fig. 22), or Macewen's sliding-stitch (Fig. 23). If there be tension in the wound, and therefore the possibility of the stitch cutting through, protection may be afforded by tying the ends over beads, glass rods, rubber tubing, or buttons. If the tension be great, its pull may be spread over a wider area by the use of tension stitches (relaxation sutures), which are placed at a greater distance from the edges of the wound than the ordinary stitches of coaptation (Fig. 24). A continuous suture is one in which the thread is carried on imbroken from end to end. Some of the many varieties are sufficiently illustrated in the accompanying diagrams. The commonest are the simple con- tinuous (Fig. 25); the blanket suture (Fig. 26), in which each layer forms a half-liitch with the one before, and the needle passes through the tissues from the surgeon's right hand to his left, except at the last stitch, which is from his left to his right; the crossed con- tinuous suture introduced by two needles, sometimes used for the rapid coaptation of edges, as in the Thelwall-Thomas operation for haemorrhoids (Fig. 27) ; and the Cusliing right-angle stitch, which is practically a continuous mattress-suture (Fig. 28). A sub-variety of the stitches of coaptation comprises the stitches of invagination, such as the purse-string (Fig. 29), the Lembert (Fig. 30), and others used in intestinal, urinary, and vascular surgery. For further information the reader must be referred to text-books on Operative Surgery. Metal clamps.—A valuable method of skin coaptation is afforded by Michel's and similar metal clamps (Fig. 31). They can be boiled