833 GONORRHCEA IN WOMEN When examining for suspected chronic gonorrhrea, the following points should be sought for : 1. A history of ophthalmia neonatorum in one or more children. 2. Signs of inflammation of Bartholin's gland. The mouth of the duct, which opens just in front of the hymen, is frequently surrounded by a dark purple-red zone (the macula gonorrhoica of Sanger), and pressure on the gland expresses a purulent or muco-purulent secretion. 3. Condylomas or warts about the vulva. 4. Signs of a chronic urethritis. As this condition in women gives rise to no subjective symptoms, and as the two-urine-glass test is not applicable, the condition can only be recognized by careful examination, including the use of the urethroscope. If the meatus be carefully cleaned and pressure made on the urethra from behind forwards, a drop of muco-pus can generally be expressed. This pus should be selected for bacteriological examination. 5. The presence of a purulent or muco-purulent discharge from the cervix uteri. 6. Evidence of inflammation of the uterus and adnexa. Symptoms.—After a short period of incubation, of from two to si.x days, symptoms of a slight inflammation of the vulva and urethra develop at first merely a sense of local heat and discomfort, which soon increases to one of considerable irritation, accompanied by a smarting and burning pain on micturition. There are swelling and oedema of the external genitals and exudation of a profuse purulent discharge between the labia. The symptoms are at their height about a week from the time of onset and, under favourable conditions, begin to decline about the third week. The inflammation rarely remains localized to the site of inoculation, but spreads till it aft'ects the greater part of the sexual apparatus, so that in many cases the symptoms of acute endometritis, salpingitis, and pelvic peritonitis are superadded to those already mentioned. There is still much uncertainty as to the frequency with which the uterus and adnexa are involved, but recent investigations lend support to the view that these organs rarely wholly escape. Treatment.— The treatment of this disease in women is sur- rounded by many difficulties, and is, as a rule, very imperfectly carried out. In the main it proceeds on lines similar to those laid down in connexion with the male. In the acute stage, emphasis should be laid on the necessity foi rest and a light diet, and the avoidance of alcohol and other irritants. Internally, the balsams and copious drinks of bland fluids may be prescribed, with a view to diminishing the urethral irritation. Locally, the parts must be kept clean and provision made for the absorption of the copious discharge. Hot sitz-baths and the application 3 B