TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 76c; Formerly it was my custom to begin, the treatment with inunction of mercury (thirty rubbings a I'Aix), but now that I am able to use calomel with impunity I prefer to commence with it. Precaution.—Of course, before the commencement of mercurial injection, it is essential that the hygiene of the mouth and teeth shall have been carefully attended to. OTHER METHODS OF ADMINISTERING MERCURY Fumigation was used frequently at one time, but fell into dis- repute until partially revived by Henry Lee. It is little practised now. as it often produced salivation, ansemia, and general debility. Intravenous inj ection was introduced in 1893. The advantage > claimed for it are painlessness and rapidity of action. The objections are difficulties of technique, thrombosis, embolism, and phlebitis. Zittmann's treatment consists in attacking chronic and refractory cases by eliminating the poison from the system by sweat- ing, purging, and the administration of mercury in infinitesimal doses combined with tonic decoctions. The course of treatment lasts fourteen days, and the patient is kept in a temperature of 80" F. Length of treatment.—Although it is impossible to say quite definitely wlicn a jjatieut may be considered cured, it is necessary to decide upon the length of treatment. Until recently clinical experi- ence was our only guide, but now the Wassermann reaction test bids fair to give us much more definite information as to the probability or otherwise of a complete cure. Probably a patient who has had two years' thorough treatment, and who at the end of that time gives repeated negative reactions with the Wassermami test (mercurial treatment having been stopped), may he considered as requiring no further treatment. Contra-indications to the use of mercury.—(1) Albu- minuria. Many cases of syphilis exhibit albuminuria in their early stages, probably due to tubal nephritis of the syphilitic kind ; this will disappear under the mercury. On the other hand, the metal must be given carefully and in a reduced dose when organic non-syphilitic disease of the kidneys exists. (2) Malaria adds greatly to the seriousness of an attack of s}q3hLlis, for malarial patients stand mercury badly and become easily salivated. Before being subjected to mercury such patients should have a thorough course of quinine. ARYLARSONATE TREATMENT Up to the year 1906 mercury went unchallenged as the only real specific for syphilis. In that year, owing to the success attained V)\- atoxyl in the treatment of sleeping sickness, Uhlenhuth suggested 2 X