724 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS The differentiating points between a chancre and a soft sore, apart from the presence of a micro-organism, are the following :— 1. In chancre the average period of incubation is from three to four weeks ; in soft sore it is under five days. 2. Chancre is usually single ; soft sore, usually multiple. 3. Chancre begins as an erosion, papule, or ulcer ; soft sore, as a pustule or open ulcer. 4. Chancre is symmetrically irregular in shape, with sloping edges ; soft sore, round to oval, with sharply defined edges. 5. Chancre is a superficial erosion ; soft sore perforates the whole thiclaiess of the skin or mucosa. 6. Chancre has a red-copper-coloured floor, frequently iridescent, and sometimes covered with pseudo-membrane ; soft sore has a whitish- grey or yellow floor. 7. Chancre secretes a scanty sanious serum and auto-inoculation seldom takes place ; soft sore has an abundant and purulent secretion and is readily auto-inoculable. 8. Chancre is usually indurated, and the induration is circum- scribed ; soft sore is seldom indurated, and induration when present is not circumscribed. 9. In chancre, gland enlargement is indolent, non-inflammatory, and painless, and when the sore is on the penis the glands of both groins are enlarged miiformly; in soft sore the glands are inflamed and painful, suppuration frequently supervenes, and the enlargement on the two sides is not uniform. 10. In chancre, local treatment is ineffectual; in soft sore, curative. Syphilis and yaws.—The one other disease in which it was believed that the S. pallida had been found is the one which mostly resembles syphilis, namely, yaws (frambcesia, paranghi). The points of difference between them are :— Syphilis 1. Primary lesion present. 2. Induration generally marked. 3. Neighbouring glands enlarged and nodular. 4. Auto-inoculable up to a certain time only. 5. Apes which have been infected with syphilis are unable to transmit it to tliose already suffering from syphilis. Yaws 1. No primary lesion. 2. No induration. 3. No glandular enlargement. 4. Always auto-inoculable. 5. Apes are capable of being infected by inoculation and retrans- mitting yaws to other apes and to those suffering from syphilis. Castellani now differentiates between the S. pallida and the organism which he believes to be the cause of yaws, and which he calls *S'. pertenuis.