PREPARING THE OPERATION ROOM 259 and j^liysical comfort of the patient. His metliod is as follows : About an hour before the operation tlie area is rubbed over with a mixture of ethylene dichloride and alcohol on sterile swabs. This is followed by rubbing in pure ethylene dichloride. The iodine- ethylene-dichloride mixture (I.D.E.) is then painted over, and the whole covered with a sterile dressing. The results are excellent. Disregard of the psychical condition of the patient is only too common. The surgeon tends to regard the case as one of diagnostic or therapeutic interest, and fails to realize that he has to deal with a personality as well as with a disease. To inspire in the patient placid confidence leads to quiet anaesthesia, less shock, and a more satisfactory convalescence. From this point of view the choice of suitable nurses and the control of the patient's friends are especially important, and may call for strong but tactful dealing. The patient should be led to think that the operation is merely an incident in the treatment, and should be discouraged from focusing his whole attention upon it. We believe that the systematic violent purging and rectal lavage so usually adopted, whether specially indicated or not, frequently do more harm by disturbing the mental equilibrium than good by the removal of the maximum of stercoral matter. The maintenance of the body warmth is very important, especially in children, old and feeble people, and the victims of severe trauma. The operation table should be warmed, and the patient warmly clad and surrounded by hot-water bottles, placed with due care to avoid burning during unconsciousness. The alteration in diet necessitated by the ansesthetic is discussed at p. OTB. As a preliminary to operations on the stomach and duodenum it is recommended that, when circumstances permit, the patient be fed on foods that have been sterilized for two days before operation. PREPARATION OF THE ROOM 1. In hospital.—It is impossible in the space at our disposal to descril)e modern theatre construction. 2. In private houses.—i. // time pernnt, the room should be cleared, carpets taken up, and all pictures, curtains, and unnecessary furniture removed. The floors should be washed and the room dusted with moist cloths. Some surgeons have the room disinfected with moist formalin vapour, but, if this be used, thorough ventilation is afterwards essential. The following should be provided :— (rt) A portable operating-table, capable of permitting the raising and lowering of the head, and of taking the Trendelenburg position.