SARCOMA 505 be justifiable to practise a free removal of tlie affected jaart of the bone in j^lace of amputation. Tlie prognosis in periosteal sarcoma of the lono- bones, even after high amputation in early cases, is most unfavourable. Of 68 cases of periosteal sarcoma collected by Butlin in 1900, there was only one in which a cure seems to have been effected, the patient being alive and well eight years after the operation, and even in this case there is some doubt whether the tumour was not central in origin. Even allowing for the fact that these figures concern the most deadly form of the disease, there can be no doubt of the extreme malignancy of sarcomas of the long bones. In the large majority of cases death occurs from metastases in the lungs. Of sarcomas of other bones little more need be said than that they may occur in any situation, such as the skull, spine, sternum and ribs, scapula, clavicle, pelvis, patella, and in the bones of the hand and foot. In some of these situations the early diagnosis may be most obscure, and the most various symptoms, such as those due to pressure on the spinal cord when the spine is involved, or on the sciatic nerve by a tumour of the pelvis, may precede the detection of a tumour. Even in readily accessible situations the difficulty in early diagnosis may be great, as, for instance, in a case of romid-celled sarcoma of the os calcis, in which the disease was at first regarded and treated as tuberculous, until the detection of pulsation, as the swelling increased, revealed its true nature. Sarcoma of the jaws is not micommon, and is most frequently periosteal in origin. The term " central " as applied to tumours of the maxilla is liable to be misleading if used for all tumours arising in the antrum, for probably such tumours, as a rule, arise in the muco- periosteum lining the cavity. Sarcoma is more common in the mandible than the maxilla, and all the forms already described in the long bones may occur in this situation. Sarcoma of the maxillary antrum is very mahgnant, and may extend very insidiously to the surrounding cavities. Sarcoma of the alimentary canal may occur at any part of its length, and probably commences most commonly in the mucous membrane or the submucous tissue, or beneath the serous coat. In a communication on this subject made by Corner and Fair- bank to the Pathological Society of London in 1905, 175 cases are tabulated, and show the following distribution, viz. : oesophagus, 14 ; stomach, 58 ; small intestine, 65 ; ileo-csecal region, 20 ; large intes- tine, 11 ; and rectum, 7. In the small intestine the disease increases in frequency in passing from the duodenum to the ileum. In the submucous variety the tumour may assume an annular form, or may project into the lumen as a polypoid mass. In the subserous form, as in the stomach, a large pedimculated tumour may result.