LIFE CONDITIONS OF BACTERIA living only in the body of a living animal; " facultative saprophytes," living by preference in the living body, but capable of an external existence; " facultative parasites," which normally exist as sapro- phytes, but can continue to live within the tissues of an animal ; and " obligatory saprophytes," which cannot grow at all within the living animal body. A classification of this kind is useful from a pathological standpoint ; but the separation of a particular class as necessarily parasitic in the living body implies only that suitable conditions do not, so far as we know, exist elsewhere in nature, though it may be, and in certain cases is already possible to provide them in the laboratory. An artificial medium for bacterial culture must contain in a suitable form the essential elements already mentioned, and must preferably possess a slightly alkaline reaction. In this respect the bacteria differ from the fungi and higher plants which require for their growth a slightly acid or neutral reaction in the soil in which they grow. Some bacteria, however, can grow in acid media, and may even themselves produce a variety of acids in considerable quantities ; while others again refuse to grow at all unless an acid medium is supplied to them. A number of bacteria, among which are included some of the most important pathogenetic forms, require for their most favourable cultivation, in addition to the essential materials already mentioned, special substances of complex constitution, such as hfemoglobin. But the details of these peculiarities will be dealt with more conveniently when we discuss the particular micro-organisms in question. ii. Effect of environment—While bacteria in general pos- ses? a remarkable power of adapting themselves to their surround- ings, yet on the other hand they exhibit in some cases an almost equally remarkable susceptibility to quite small changes in particular features of their environment. A number of these are of sufficient importance to require individual discussion. (a) Relation to free oxygen.—Until the discovery by Pasteur, in 1861. of " anaerobic " micro-organisms, the presence of free oxygen had been regarded as essential to the continued maintenance of every form of life. The investigation of bacterial forms to which free oxygen is actually harmful threw a new light on the physiology of these organisms, and led indirectly to a fresh advance in the study of bacterial disease. It is now known that while to some bacteria a supply of free oxygen is absolutely essential (obligatory aerobes, cf. B. subtilis and B. aceti), to otliers its entire absence is equally necessary (obligatory anaerobes, cf. B. tetani and B. cedematis maligni), while to the lar.u<' majority the oxygen supply is to greater or less extent a matter of indifference, since in the absence of jrce oxygen they obtain what they