TUMOURS -398 jmrt -of which the layer of cement which covers the dentine of the fang develops. The dental sac and its contents are together known as the tooth-follicle. iThe development of those permanent teeth which replace the tem- porary set is in all essential respects similar, except that the enamel- germ, instead of being formed by a direct downgrowth from the surface epithelium, arises as a bud-like thickening on the strand of epithelium which connects the enamel-organ of each temporary tooth with the surface. From this it is evident that tumours of very varying structure— epiblastic and mesoblastic—can arise in connexion with the changes concerned in the development of the teeth, and, as Broca has shown, the actual structure of the tumour will depend upon the period at which it arises. In 188-5, Malassez published some important observations in which he was able to show that epithelium cells, representing parts of the common enamel-germ which are not actually concerned in the forma- tion of the enamel-organ, may still remain in the adult jaw. To these epithelial remains he gave the name " debris epitheliaux paradent- aires," and it is probable that certain cystic and epithelial tumours of the jaws originate in them. Following Bland-Sutton's classification, the following varieties of odontoma are recognized :— 1. Epithelial odontoma.—This tumour, which is most common in the mandible, is also known as the cystic epithelioma, or multilocular cystic disease, and will be considered subsequently (p. 539). It is usually met with in adult life and is believed to originate in the epithelial cell groups described by Malassez. 2. Follicular odontoma.—This is more commonly known as the dentigerous cyst (p. .598). According to Bland-Sutton, it represents an expanded tooth-follicle. 3. Fibrous odontoma.—This results from fibrous thickening of the dental sac and presents itself as a central fibrous tumoiu- of the jaAV in which an unerupted and often imperfectly-developed tooth is embedded (p. 378). 4. Cementoma.—This form of odontoma results from ossification of the thickened fibrous capsule of the last variety, so that the tooth becomes embedded in a mass of cementum (Bland-Sutton). 5. Compound follicular odontoma.-—A very rare form in which the tumour contains " a number of small fragments of cementum, or dentine, or even ill-shaped teeth (denticles), composed of three dental elements—cementum, dentine, and enamel." 6. Radicular odontoma.—An odontoma formed from the fang of a tooth after the formation of the crown is complete. It takes the form