GENERAL ANESTHESIA 662 never be poured out in any such neighbourhood ; and ether anaes- thesia must not be employed when the actual cautery is to be applied. Two kinds of ether are available for anpesthetic purposes : (1) Ether purificatus (off.), sp. gr. not above '722 or below '720, obtained from pure rectified spirit; and (2) rectified ether, sp. gr. '720, obtained from methylated spirit. Either kind should be neutral to test paper. The latter is considerably the less expensive. The results obtainable from the two kinds in practice are almost identical. Ether may be given in two totally different ways, according as closed apparatus is used or the open method employed. Each method has its advantages and its disadvantages. In the case of the closed method, by initiating the ether administration with nitrous-oxide or ethyl-chloride patients can be anaesthetized without tasting the ether at all during the period of induction—in some cases a great advantage. Unconsciousness is quickly attained in this way, without the escape of any great amount of ether vapour into the air of the room. More- over, the most difficult subjects can be anaesthetized. On the other hand, there is in many cases a certain amount of cyanosis, of spasm, and of mucous secretion, all of which are less when the open method is used. The latter method also is very mucli simpler, as well as safer. It is to be preferred, therefore, by those who use ether as a routine anaesthetic in all cases, although it is not efficient in the case of very alcoholic, robust subjects without the expenditure of much time and the prolongation of the excitement stage. Administration by the open method is thus conducted: A mask, similar to that used for C.E. (p. 655), though sometimes of a larger size, is covered with ten layers of fine gauze or two layers of the flannel used in the case of C.E. A face-pad of gauze, made by tying together the two ends of a roll about an inch thick and one and a half feet long, is laid upon the patient's face so that the whole of the mouth and nose are within the circle of gauze. The mask is then placed lightly on the face, resting on the gauze pad, and the patient is told to breathe gently in and out of the mouth. After a few breatlis ether is added drop by drop from a drop-bottle of the same kind as that used for C.E. At first only the lower part of the mask is moist- ened, but after three minutes, as the patient becomes accustomed to the vapour, and if his breathing is uninterrupted by coughing or holding of the breath, the ether is added freely until the whole surface of the mask is kept saturated. Excitement is not a marked feature of the induction, and objection to the vapour is less than might be expected, provided that the ether is dropped on in suffi- ciently small quantities during the first minutes. When anfesthesia is established it is not necessary, except in the case of difficult subjects, to add ether freely, perfect immobility being usually maintained if the