NERVE ACTION AND INFLAMMATION 133 the tissues aiul brin<;' aliout ( ('ll-disiiitt'iii-ation. The ])ro(lucts of tliis cellular degeneration may in llicir turn act as additional irritants, and so the inflaininatorv reac'tions iiia\' be definitely set up or accentuated. Anionfi; the mechanical causes must be included all wounds, bruises, and fractures, the intensity of the resultini; inllammation dependinjf to a considerable extent upmi llir iiatin-e of (lie injui-\-. Th\is. in clean surgical wounds all the ])hcnonu'na of inllammation are seen, but they are present imly in a minor degree, whereas very extensive and very severe reactions may follow lacerated wounds oi- bruises or fractures. This same variation in reaction is well illustrated in i)urns and in frost-bites, the resulting tissue changes lieing onl\- slight or very severe. Of the ilieniical irritants, even weak solutions of corrosive sub- limate (ir i-arbolic acid may gi\'e rise to severe reactions, and may bi'ing about the death of consideralile areas of tissue. Among these chemical irritants, certain to.xiiis prnduccd b\' phints and animals must tie included. The stings of insects, the venom of snakes, and such substances as mustard, cantharides, croton oil, etc., are capable of ])roducing all the reactions of inllammation. Nervous.—'i'hougli we regard with .scepticism the frequently expressed opinion that nerve action, jicr sc, can set up inffammator}' reactions, yet it must be admitted that many conditions which can at present l)e attributed to nervous causes alone cannot be distinguished from inllammation. Thus the pathological anatomv of the condition of herpes zoster allies it with inllammation. and yet all the evidence seems to point to the cause being a disturbance of the posterior root- ganglia. .Viiain. N'arious t\-pes of enjtlieiud are regarded as nei-\'ous. and they certainly show manv of the inflammatory jihenomena, though .some of these—e.g. leucocvte emigration—may be only slightly in evidence. Most surgeons are familiar not merelv witli "'referred pain."" but with what mav be called referred intlammation "—i.e. areas of red- ness or actual inllammation o{-cui'ring at some distance from a ])rimary focus, but both being in the distribution area of a particular nerve. It is possible in these cases that the nerve itself has no special action, but that the infection is cau.sed by means of lymphatics in the nerve- sheath. Adami maintains that in manv of these cases the poi-sons them- selves are not the direct cause of the inllamniatory manifestations. He holds that ' ilie irritation of a sensorv nerve of the primarily inflamed area influences the whole of the neuron of which it is a part." Thus, the irritant action is distributed by the lu'anches of the nerve, and so the vascular and other changes which are the important feature of the primarv focus must l)e regarded as the result of relle.x action.