X-RAY EXAMINATION 634 Charcot's disease.—The appearance presented by a joint affected by tliis disease is characteristic, and is of valuable assistance in making a correct diagnosis. Plate 47, Fig. 1, is a radiogram of the liypertrophic variety of " Charcot's joint" (the hip) ; the extensive formation of osteophytic outgrowth and the almost complete destruc- tion of the normal outline of the upper end of the femur are obvious, and sufficient to distinguish this affection. The atrophic variety affectina; the knee-joint presents an appearance such as that seen in Fig. 2. ^ Loose bodies in the joints.—Loose bodies in the joints are usually easily distinguishable. In the radiogram of a Imee-joint (Plate 47, Fig. 3) good examples may be seen in the positions indicated. In the knee care miist be taken that the sesamoid bone, occasionally found in the tendon of the semitendinosus muscle, be not mistaken for an intra-articular loose body. Ankylosis.—It is usually a matter of little difficulty to learn by X-ray examination whether bony ankylosis is present. Fibrous ankylosis causes practically no change in the outline of the articular surfaces, whereas bony ankylosis results in complete obliteration of the interarticular space. Tuberculous disease.—TubeTculous disease, when in its early stages, or when confined to the synovial membrane, produces very shght or j^ractically no change in the bones entering into a joint. As in the case of simple arthritis, the bones may show some increased translucency and irregularity of structure, and, on the whole, changes such as these are usually more marked in tuberculous than in simple arthritis. Should the actual site of the disease be not in the joint itself, but in the epiphysial line, or in the bone close to the joint, it is possible that when joint-symptoms first occur, bony changes will be plainly observable by X-rays. Thus, in Plate 48, Fig. 1, the radio- grams of the knee-joint (two views at right-angle planes) show tuber- culous osteitis in the region of the upper epiphysis of the tibia, which was associated with early symptoms of tuberculous arthritis. In its later stages, tuberculous arthritis shows more decided bony changes, such as marked increase in translucency, irregularity of and lack of detail in structure of the bone, and irregularity of the outline of the articular surfaces of the joint. Sometimes in children, at a comparatively early stage, characteristic hook-like projections may be observed springing from the articular surfaces, but at every age, sooner or later, definite evidences of bony necrosis are observed, the necrotic process being either circumscribed or general. Hip-joint.—In children, different stages of this disease are recog- nizable by means of the X-ray. Thus, in Plate 48, Figs. 2, 3, and 4,