TREATMENT OF SHOCK 337 maintain the blood pressure, is also due to the researches of Grile, who claims that i" provides an artificial peripheral resistance without side effects. The patient is enclosed in a pneumatic suit made of 9 double layer of indiarubber, which can be inflated by means of an ord nary bicycle pumjj. When the pressure is raised by forcing air into the suit it exerts a uniform pressure over the body surface, con- stitutmg an artificial peripheral resistance, which causes a rise in blood pressure. The suit is so made and arranged that the pressure can be raised in one or all the limbs, or on the abdomen especially, and the exit tubes are so valved that the pressure can be gradually lowered as the patient recovers. By means of this suit Crile claims that he gets a control over the blood pressure within a range of 25 to 60 mm. of mercury. This apparatus has been used both durmg severe opera- tions on the head and neck, where shock was expected, and in the treatment of shock after operations, and good results are claimed. It may be considered a useful adjunct in the treatment of shock. OPERATIONS DURING THE PERIOD OF SHOCK AFTER ACCIDENTS It may be stated as a general rule that no operation (this usually means amputation) should be performed whilst the patient is in a condition of shock. As has already been considered, the treatment of shock is rest and warmth till the patient recovers, and the superimposition of operative shock upon the shock of an accident is bad surgery ; if the patient recovers, he does so not on account of treatment, but in spite of it. If haemorrhage is occurring, it must, of -course, be arrested at once and as quickly as possible, by simply ligaturing the tissues en masse, without special care to isolate the blood-vessels. If this arrest of haemorrhage requires an ansesthetic—it rarely does—a few breaths of ether should be given and the vessels either quickly tied or simply closed with hiemostatic forceps. The patient should be made as warm and comfortable as possible, the womrd being well covered with an aseptic or antiseptic gauze dressing and lightly bandaged. Pain, which is one of the causes of shock and of its maintenance, should be relieved by an injection of morphia, or by blocking the main nerve trimks which lead from the injured part by injection of cocaine, or by a combination of the two methods. If much blood has been lost, four or five pints of hot saline fluid should be injected into a vein, or it may be run slowly into the rectum or subcutaneous tissue. Direct transfusion may also be used if a donor can be obtained and the surgeon is skilled in the method. In those cases in which a part is almost severed and is only attached to the rest of the body by a few strands of tissue, it is permissible to w