467 MALIGNANT GROWTHS to it on the u^^per lip was a similar growth. Both growths were removed and their nature was confiruied by microscopic examination. Macewen comnrunicated to Butlin the following extraordinary case : A man with an ulcerated carcinoma of the lower lip had contracted the habit of rubbing the lip and then the tip of the nose with the same finger. Twenty months after the removal of the disease of the lip the patient returned with a large ulcer on the tip of his nose. This was also removed ; it presented the same microscopic structure as the ulcer of the lip. In considering this subject it is important to remember that multiple developments of carcinoma are not very uncommon in parts which are the seat of a precancerous condition, and in such cases, for instance, as those apparently illustrating inoculation by contact in the vulva, it is conceivable that in some instances both growths arise independently in a part already predisposed to the disease. The possibility of auto-inoculation has an obviously important bearing on operations undertaken for malignant disease, and suggests the importance of avoiding contamination of the divided tissues from the surface of an ulcerated growth or from exj^loratory incisions made into it. In a striking case, recorded by Watson Che}Tie, it was necessary to perform a laryngotomy hurriedly with the Imife which was being used to excise a sarcoma of the upper jaw. Subsequently the only evidence of recurrence was a nodule of growth in the scar resulting from the laryngotomy. The outcome of the above considerations concerning the com- municability of malignant growths in man and in certain of the lower animals, and the occasional auto-inoculation in the human subject, is merely to show that in favourable circumstances the living cells of the tumour can continue to grow in their new surroundings—a modified instance of the phenomenon of metastasis. No proof is thereby afforded that the disease is infective. Indeed, in our present state of knowledge it must be allowed that the existence of a living parasite in malignant growths has not been proved, and still less has any real success attended the attempts made to cultivate any such parasite outside the body and to reproduce a similar malignant growth by inoculation. Predisposing causes of malignant tumours.—In con- sidering the causation of malignant growths, perhaps the most clearly estabhshed fact is the frequent development of the disease in tissues which are already altered by various chronic inflammatory changes, often resulting from long-standing irritation. So close appears to be the connexion in some instances, that certain definite precancerous conditions are recognized. It is, indeed, in carcinoma that the relation of the disease to chronic irritation is most strildng, and, as might