ETIOLOGY OF SHOCK 325 4. Haemorrhage.—Loss of blood is connected in several ways with the condition of shock. In severe injuries both shock and hfemorrhage are frequently present, and it is often difficult to estimate the degree in which each contributes to the patient's condition. Both are associated with a fall in blood pressure, and while shock may be directly dependent upon loss of blood, on the other hand loss of even a small amount of blood whilst the patient is in a condition of shock is apt to be fatal. As the treatment of hajmorrhage differs from that of shock in material points, a differential diagnosis is of the utmost importance. 5. Sudden severe irritation of extensive serous membranes, e.g. the peritoneum. The rupture of a gastric, duo- denal, or t}^)hoid ulcer, or the bursting of a hydatid cyst or an abscess into the general peritoneal cavity, is usually followed by so profound a condition of shock as to obscure the diagnosis of the lesion. This shock is probably produced in the same way as the shock following an extensive cutaneous lesion, i.e. by over-stimulation of a large number of sensory nerve terminations. 6. Severe blows on the abdomen and thorax, not connected with any serious internal lesion. A severe blow on the abdomen may cause death from shock, and on post-mortem exam- ination no gross lesion may be found. The shock probably depends on over-stimulation of the peripheral sympathetic plexuses, such as the solar plexus. 7. Manipulation, especially intermittent tension on the blood- vessels and nerves of exposed viscera. The production of shock by this method is frecjuently met with durmg the necessary manipula- tions in operations on the abdominal viscera, particularly when the parietal peritoneum and the mesentery are interfered with, and it constitutes one of the great dangers of abdominal operations. Under this heading must also be placed the shock associated with intus- susception, strangulated hernia, etc. It is a method frecjuently used to produce shock during experimental investigation of the condition. 8. Head injuries.—The condition of concussion following an injury to the head is the condition of shock, and no distinction is possible between them. The clinical sjmiptoms of the two conditions are precisely similar, and depend on the same disturbance of the cardio- vascular system. 9. Injuries to the spinal cord. — In fracture-dislocations of the spine, with crushing of the spinal cord, shock is usually a marked feature, and may cause death in a few hours. In many acute septic conditions ^hock is often j^reseut, as, for example, in the onset of acute septic pancreatitis, and many of the symptoms of acute septic poisoning are those of shock ; but it is advisable that a distinction be made. In septic pancreatitis,