390 TUMOURS Hospital is a small tumour, composed of several lobules of cartilage, which was removed by Marcus Beck from the flexor tendon sheath, of the index finger in the palm. Before operation the tumour was mistaken for a ganglion. Butlin and Spencer refer to congenital cartilaginous and bony tumours occasionally found in the tongue, and probably arising in the foetal structures which give rise to the septum. These authors quote the observations of Nussbaum and Markowski on the septum of the tongue in human foetuses and new-born children ; they describe an encapsuled structure containing fat and sometimes rods or islands of hyahne cartilage, especially near the hyoid bone. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the common varieties of chondroma growing from the bones is rarely attended with difficulty. It is a matter, however, of great practical importance that, in certain mixed tumours, usually mahgnant, containing cartilage, the latter may so preponderate over the other constituent tissues that to the naked eye the tumour may appear to be a pure chondroma. This is particularly true of some chondrifying sarcomas of bone which will be described subsequently (p. 490). For instance, certain cartilaginous growths afEecting the bones of the face must mostly be regarded as of this nature. Christopher Heath, in his " Injuries and Diseases of the Jaws," refers to several striking cases in which a cartilaginous tumour, probably beginning in the maxilla, has gradually encroached upon the neigh- bouring fossae, and extended to the orbits and cranial cavity. In Lawson's case ten operations were performed during a period of eighteen years for a recurring cartilaginous tumour of the lower jaw which was undoubtedly a chondrifying sarcoma. A careful histo- logical examination will usually serve to distinguish such a tumour from a pure chondroma. In the latter the lobules of cartilage are held together by a varying amount of simple connective tissue. In a chrondrifying sarcoma, on the other hand, the tissue between the lobules is richly cellular, and generally a gradual transition can be traced between the typical encapsuled cartilage cells Ipng in a hyaline ground substance and undifferentiated cells with a scanty granular or fibrillated stroma. The most striking illustration of the fact under consideration is afforded by the historical case of chondroma of the testicle recorded by Paget in 1855. In this case a tumour of the testicle, composed apparently of pure cartilage, extended upwards along the spermatic cord and ended in a swelling in front of the vena cava. The growi^h perforated this vessel and thus reached the lungs, which were the seat of numerous cartilaginous deposits. Although doubt as to the purely cartilaginous nature of this tumour had been expressed by Butlin, it was not until 1897 that Kanthack and Pigg fm'ther investi-