78o SALVARSAN IN TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS debilitating disease lilie syphilis. Whether it will ever replace mercury entirely cannot at present be decided, but we have, at any rate, con- siderable grounds for hope that a combined treatment with salvarsan and mercury mil effect a cure in a very much shorter time than has hitherto been the case when using mercury alone. Further than this, we can assure the patient, with more confidence than when reliance is placed on mercury alone, that in all jjrobability the course of his illness Avill not be marked by disfiguring and mutilating ulcerative processes. Whether we can promise immunity from parasyphilis remains to be seen. Indications. — In the absence of any contra-indication we would administer salvarsan to every case of syphilis, but would especially urge its use — (1) When mercury cannot be tolerated by the patient, and when it fails to affect the course of the disease, or to prevent frequent relapses. (2) In all cases where a rapid action is necessary to prevent I damage to important vital structures. (3) In severe syphilitic ulcerative lesions, and in malignant syphilis. Contra-indications.—Salvarsan is contra-indicated— (1) In advanced degeneration of the central nervous system. (2) Where there are marked cardio-vascular changes, as in aneurysm ; where there is reason to suspect sclerosis of coronary arteries, and in those subject to angina pectoris. (3) Where there is a tendency to haemorrhage. (4) In severe disease of the abdominal viscera not due to ' syphilis, and in extensive syphilitic disease of the liver and Iddneys, as well as in severe diabetes. (5) In such lung affections as putrid broncho-pneumonia and advanced pulmonary tuberculosis. (6) In parasyphilis, save in the earliest stages. Precautions.—Special caution is necessary when salvarsan is administered in certain cases. In syphilitic disease of the central nervous system, on account of the risk of raising the intracranial pressure, it should be given in half-doses. In cases of hemiplegia it is best to wait till all active symptoms have settled down before giving a half-dose. In the early stages of parasyphilis and in weakly patients the same precaution should be observed with regard to dosage. In cases of optic neuritis the patient should be warned of the exact state of his optic nerve, in order that he may not subsequently blame the remedy unjustly for changes it has failed to arrest. Pregnancy is not a contra-indication to its use in cases otherwise suitable.