TUMOURS 576 "villous cancer," first used by Cornil and Ranvier, is only of limited applicability, for all columnar-celled carcinomas of tlie breast do not exliibit a papillary structure. The simple duct papilloma of the breast •has already been described (p. 453), and from this benign growth the villous cancer is distinguished by the fact that, instead of remaining as a papillomatous growth in the interior of the duct, the growth originating in the duct epithelium infiltrates the surrounding tissues in the form of spaces filled with villous processes covered with columnar cells. We cannot but conclude that considerable confusion has arisen between these two forms of growth, and that to a certain extent an exagger- ated idea of the comparatively low malignancy of columnar-celled carcinomas of the breast has resulted from including with them certain simple duct papillomas. A typical columnar-celled carcinoma usually occurs in the central part of the breast as a comparatively soft tumour intimately connected with the breast tissue, and exhibiting little evidence of traction upon the surrounding tissues. A blood-stained discharge from the nipple may be present, and sometimes the tumour is definitely cystic. There is no doubt, even allowing for the probable fallacy above mentioned, that the maUgnancy of columnar-celled carcinoma is less than that of the common form of cancer of the breast, and metastases are quite exceptional. Godlee has recorded a case in wliich secondary deposits were present in the axillary glands, and Shattock one in which, although the structure of the breast tumour was not Imown, a metastasis in a rib presented the typical structure of columnar-celled carcinoma. Carcinoma of the male breast, although of special interest on account of its comparative rarity, presents no anatomical peculiarities to which reference need be made here. Carcinoma of the uterus is much more common in the cervix than in the body. In the cervix it may begin in the vaginal portion or in the canal. When beginning in the vaginal portion it often presents the characteristic structure of the squamous variety, and when arising in the epithelium of the cervical glands it may retain the columnar type, but in neither case is the character of the epithelium always preserved in the tumour cells, so that the structure is sometimes that of carcinoma simplex; thus, except in its earliest stages, its exact origin may be doubtful. In some forms of cancer of the cervical glands the cells lining the spaces retain a very regular form and arrangement, and show none of the usual heaping-up and proliferation of the columnar epithelium, and the histological resemblance to a simple adenoma is, therefore, so close that the recognition of its malig- nant nature by the examination of a scraping can hardly be made. A tumour of tliis structure is sometimes called a malignant adenoma (Fig. 160).