AMPUTATION AFTER ACCIDENT body may be obtained by studying the part from all points of view with the screen, note being taken of the relative extent of movement of the bones and the needle on rotation of the part. Sometimes another needle can be introduced and made to touch the embedded one ; if so, an excellent clue is obtained to its whereabouts, and the operation is materially facilitated. Amputations for Injuries Modern surgical methods, by eliminating many of the risks of sepsis and by reducing shock, have greatly modified the certain indications for amputation for injury. Primary amputation, that is, one performed immediately after an injury or as soon as the shock lias passed off, is certainly called for in cases of avulsion of a limb, of complete " pulping," or of absolute destruction of both the arterial and venous supply to the part. Extensive laceration of the skin, or damage to the main vessels, nerves, and bones, is not now to be regarded as a sufficient reason for primary amputation in a part otherwise healthy, for skin-grafting, vessel- and nerve-suture, bone- grafting, and other conservative measures will frequently permit the retention of a useful limb. The surgeon must therefore take into consideration the general health, age, and constitution of the patient, and the probable sub- sequent value of the limb. An old or debilitated subject is more likely to bear the comparatively short convalescence from an ampu- tation which heals by first intention, than the protracted and weari- some recovery which follows the adoption of conservative methods, especially if they require a recumbent position with its attendant dangers of hypostatic congestion of the lungs, pneumonia, etc. Again, a patient in poor circumstances is frecjuently better off with a stump capable of adjustment to an artificial limb than with a longer and more or less mutilated member requiring long-continued care. Every effort must be made to save parts of an upper limb, especially the thumb and fingers, inasmuch as no artificial substitute performs their delicate duties so satisfactorily as even a damaged hand and arm, while the lower limb, which chiefly serves for support, is readily rej^laced by a comparatively simple apparatus. Secondary amputation is required in cases in which sepsis has supervened and is progressive, in which gangrene has occurred, or in which the limb resulting from conservative measures proves to be useless or even detrimental to the i^atient. SURGICAL TECHNIQUE Introductory and historical.—It is unnecessary to com- pare modern surgical results with those achieved in pre-Listerian