442 TUMOURS will be made subsequently (p. 525) to recorded cases in which an isolated metastasis in one of the bones was present at a time when the primary tumour was still vmrecognizable. Adenoma of the uterus.—A fibro-adenoma of the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus occurs as one form of simple polypus, but is much less common than the mucous polypus and the pedunculated submucous fibro-myoma. The tumour is usually small, and consists of spaces lined with cubical epithelium lying in a connec- tive-tissue stroma. Certain tumours of the uterus, consisting chiefly of muscular and fibrous tissue, contain, however, such a considerable amount of glandular tissue in the form of spaces lined with cubical epithelium as to justify the name " adeno-myoma " being applied to them. To the naked eye such a tumour does not necessarily jjresent any features distinguishing it from an ordinary fibro-myoma, but occasionally the glandular elements may become dilated into cysts so as to con- vert the whole tumour into a lobulated cystic mass. An adeno- myoma of the uterus may, if it reaches a large size, extend into the broad ligament, but tumours of a similar nature may origi- nate in this situation, probably in the remains of the Wolffian body or duct. The name adeno-myoma, or " diffuse" adeno-myoma, is also applied to a diflercnt condition in the uterus, in which the whole or a part of the cavity of the body is surrounded by a thick layer, consisting of the hypertrophied glands of the mucous membrane intimately mixed with tracts of fibro-muscular tissue. This condi- tion, which must be regarded rather as a glandular hyperplasia than a true tumour formation, may clinically be indistinguishable from certain forms of fibro-myoma. Adenoma of the ovary.—A pure adenoma of the ovary, occurring as a solid tumour composed of epitlielium-hned tubules, is very rare ; but, on the other hand, the cystic adenoma, more com- monly known as the multilocular ovarian cyst, is of very frequent occur- rence, and may reach a size which is not equalled by any other tumour. The cystic adenoma occurs as a smooth, lobulated tumour composed of a number of cysts held together by fibrous septa. On section it is often found that the bulk of the tumour is composed of a single cyst, in connexion with which there are numerous others of smaller size and often fibrous areas in which minute cysts can just be recognized with the naked eye or seen with the microscope. Occasionally, by the breaking down of the septa between the cysts, the whole tumour is converted into a unilocular cyst. Except in the earlier stages of its development the ovar}' itself cannot be recognized in a cystic adenoma.