APPLIED BACTERIOLOGY 96 use, but as a prophylactic agent it will generally be found, in my opinion, that 500 or 1,000 units need rarely be exceeded. Tetanus.—Tetanus antitoxin may be used either prophylactic- ally or therapeutically. In the former case, preventive inoculations should always be used in cases of crushed and lacerated wounds into which garden soil or road dust has been carried at the time of injury. In such cases it may be injected subcutaneously in doses of 20 to 50 units, which would be contained in from 10 to 15 c.c. of serum. Used in this method the serum has given excellent results in animals as well as in man ; that is to say, by its means the percentage of tetanus cases following such injuries as presumably have been exposed to tetanus infection has been strikingly reduced. Further, there is now to be obtained a dried preparation of tetanus antitoxin which may be applied directly to a wound where the possibility of tetanus infection is feared. This preparation has been used, on the suggestion of Calmette, as a protective dressing on the umbilical cord in new- born children in Indo-China, where formerly 20 per cent, of new-born children were said to die of tetanus neonatorum, and it has given very satisfactory results in a striking reduction of the mortality from this disease. The therapeutic use of tetanus antitoxin has been sufficiently discussed in the previous article, and it need only be added that the remedy cannot be said to have had a proper trial in a case of tetanus unless it has been administered promptly, repeatedly, and freely in large doses, not only locally, but also by the method of lumbar puncture. To say that doses of 100 or 200 units of antitoxin should be repeated as often as the case allows, until some definite result has been obtained, might appear to suggest heroic treatment, but it must always be remembered that the mortality of acute tetanus is in any case extremely high, and in many statistics reaches even 80 per cent. ; moreover, clinical symptoms of the disease do not become manifest until the infection has attained serious proportions. ANTIBACTERIAL SERUMS Streptococcic infections. — In surgical infections due to the Streptococcus pyogenes, especially those of the septicajmic type, treatment with antistreptococcic serum possesses considerable value, especially if one employs polyvalent serum; that is to sa}', serum ob- tained from an animal immunized by the injection of a large number of strains of streptococci derived from various sources and types of infection. The best results are obtained by injecting large doses at once, 20-30 c.c, either intravenously, or half intravenously and the remainder subcutaneously. In favourable cases the temperature will