710 TUBERCULOSIS be given an important place, I do not think it is tlie commonest channel by which the bacilli reach the tissues in the human subject. In the infected mesenteric glands, particularly in young children, the bacillus characteristic of bovine tuberculosis is frequently found to be the causal agent. Intestinal tuberculosis may also occur as the result of the swallow- ing of sputum by patients suffering from the pulmonary form of the disease. Inhalation of dried bacilli, derived from any source—e.g. the dried-up sputum of tuberculous patients—or inhalation of fine, moist sprays which have become infected by means of sputum or in other ways, is probably the commonest method of infection. The bacilli pass directly to the trachea, larger bronchi, or lungs, where they settle down and produce their characteristic changes ; or they become arrested on the moist surfaces of the tonsils or the adenoid tissue of the naso-pharynx, and from these situations pass to the neighbouring glands. The tuberculous cervical lymphatic glands, which are so common in the practice of every surgeon, are in the majority of cases infected from the tonsils or adenoid tissue of the naso-pharynx. This emphasizes the importance of surgical attention to enlarged tonsils and to adenoids. No doubt bacilli are also arrested in these situations during the ingestion of infected food material. Infection by means of abrasions or wounds of the skin is not common, though post-mortem warts and, it may be, also lupus arise in this way. Occasionally also surgical wounds have accidentally become contaminated with B. tuberculosis, and tuberculous lesions have been produced. Wounds made with material previously infected with the bacillus, if not very thoroughly cleansed, may be the starting-point of definite tuberculosis. Several cases have been recorded, such as that of Tscherning of Copenhagen, where a finger had to be amputated and glands in the elbow and axilla excised in a woman who had cut her finger with a broken glass vessel containing the sputum of a phthisical patient. Obscure methods of infection.—The method of infection in a certain proportion of cases, especially those occurring in bone and in the brain, is not at all clear. In some there is probably a spread, by way of the lymphatics, from infected lymphatic glands ; but in other cases, and particularly in localized tuberculous affections of the bones and the joints and of the testicle, a carriage of the bacilli by the blood-stream seems the only reasonable explanation. In such cases, too, there is often a local cause determining the site of attack—e.g. a previous injury, or a non-tuberculous inflammatory focus. Infection of an infant from its mother is brought about through one or other of the ordinary channels, and by the ordinary