8io GONORRHCEA risk of such complications as epidid3'mitis, cystitis, prostatitis, and spermato-cystitis being very great. Symptoms.—The extension of the inflammation to the posterior urethra may manifest itself by the sudden onset of painful symptoms, or it may develop so insidiously as hardly to attract the notice of the patient. The most frequent and by far the most distressing symptom is an excessive irritability of the prostatic mucous membrane, causing a constant desire to micturate. The intensity of this symptom is proportionate to the degree of inflammation. In the acutest cases the desire to micturate scarcely ever abates, and is independent of the quantity of urine in the bladder. Another common symptom is haematuria. The last few drops of urine and pus are stained with blood, which has been pressed out of the inflamed mucous membrane of the membranous portion by the contraction of the compressor urethras. As a rule, the bleeding is limited to a few drops of bright blood passed at the end of micturition, but at times the heemorrhage is free. This, unfortunately, often leads to an entirely erroneous diagnosis, and the unhappy patient is sub- jected to an instrumental examination of the bladder. A tliird and seldom-absent symptom of this condition is the occurrence of frequent seminal emissions, due to the irritation of the caput gallinaginis. Its occurrence during the tliird or fourth week of an attack of acute gonorrhosa should cause the surgeon to suspect the presence of posterior urethritis. In addition to these three cardinal local symptoms, there is usually some constitutional disturbance, shght fever and a decided feeling of malaise. Diagnosis.—The easiest and, in most cases, the best way of proving the presence or absence of posterior urethritis is by means of the " two-glass test" of Sir Henry Thompson. It is appUed in the following manner : The patient, on rising in the morning, passes his urine into two urine-glasses, half emptying his bladder into the first, and then passing the remainder into the second glass. Should he be suffering from anterior urethritis, the urine in the first glass will appear turbid from the presence of pus, which the flow of urine has brought away ; but the second portion of urine will be quite clear, for the urethra has been swept free of pus by the first portion passed. But if it be a case of posterior urethritis, not only will the first portion of urine be turbid, but the second also. It is obvious that this turbidity of the second portion can only be due to a turbidity of the urine within the bladder. As the first portion of urine passed removes all the pus from the urethra, if the urine within the bladder be clear the second portion must be clear also. The pus in the anterior urethra is pre- vented from passing backwards by the strong compressor urethras muscle, but it is free to pass forwards, and is, indeed, aided by gravity.