MALIGNANT GROWTHS 469 widely regarding the frequency with which carcinoma suj^ervenes upon simple chronic ulceration. In those forms of carcinoma, chiefly of the undifferentiated type, wliich originate in the epithelium of glandular organs, the relation of the disease to previous chronic inflammation and prolonged irritation is much less clearly defined, partly, no doubt, as the result of the greater difficulty of observation. Talcing carcinoma of the breast as one of the commonest forms of the glandular variety, it seems clearly proved that in some instances the disease arises in connexion with various epithelial proliferations associated with chronic mastitis, although in the majority of cases there is no clinical or pathological evidence of any precancerous condition. Reference will, however, subsequently be made to the close connexion which sometimes exists between the development of a carcinoma of the mamma and the peculiar form of chronic dermatitis of the nipple and areola first described by Paget, and known by his name (p. .564). Carcinoma of the thyroid supervening upon a simple goitre, and of the prostate occurring in a gland already enlarged, are other instances of interest in this connexion, and mention must be made of the fact that a carcinomatous change occasionally occurs in the epithelium of a simple tumour, such as an adenoma, papilloma, or teratoma. A study of sarcoma shows that the relation of this form of malignant growth to pre-existing pathological tissue change is much less evident than in carcinoma. Whereas carcinoma tends to develop more or less gradually in the middle and later periods of life, and often in already damaged tissues, sarcoma is much more common in the earlier periods of life, and develops usually more rapidly in tissues showing no evidence of previous damage. There seems, however, reason to believe that among the sarcomas simple traumatism sometimes stands in a causal relation to the development of the growth. This connexion has, perhaps, most often been apparent in sarcoma of the bones, and a striking illustration is afforded by the occasional development of such a tumour at the site of a previous fracture (p. .502). It must, of course, be remembered that an injury may attract attention to an already existing but hitherto unrecognized tumour, but in the cases apparently illustrating the causal effect of an injury to a sarcoma the interval has been too long to make such an accidental connexion at all probable. Sarcoma rarely develops in tumours of a benign nature, but reference has already been made to the occasional development of the disease in cases of neuro-fibromatosis (p. 375), and also to the fact that an endothelioma, after a long period of apparently benign growth, may assume the characters of malignancy and become transformed into an endothelial sarcoma (p. 416). Mention may also be made in this connexion of the not infrequent supervention of sarcomatous tumours