489 SARCOMA connected with the question of the nature of the " ntevus cells " of moles, in which they apparently arise (p. 450). Whilst fully recognizing the difficulty of the subject, we are of opinion that the evidence is in favour of the view that the malignant melanotic tumour, of the skin at least, is a sarcoma. Melanotic sarcoma occurs chiefly in the skin and the eye, and the characters of the disease will be considered as it occurs in these situa- tions (pp. 494 and 512); it has also been described in other situations, such as the central nervous sys- tem, the palate, and the lower part of the rectum. Melanotic mahgnant tumours are also not uncommon in horses, especially greys. A short description will now be given of those varieties of sarcoma which are characterized by the special features of the stroma with which the sarcoma cells are associated. 1. Lympho-sarcoma.— This is a small round-celled tu- mour in which the cells are con- tained in a delicate reticulum formed by the branching pro- cesses of other cells. The struc- ture thus closely resembles that of normal lymphoid tissue, and in spealdng of lymphoma it has been pointed out that this name has been applied to various con- ditions which cannot justly be regarded as true tumours (p. 422). There seems to us, however, sufficient evidence to justify the application of the name lympho-sarcoma to certain new growths of the structure above described. For instance, a primary tumour of the tonsil, associated perhaps with secondary deposits in the cer- vical lymph-glands, may present the structure of this variety of sarcoma, and be altogether unassociated with any form of lymphoid hyperplasia elsewhere (Fig. 116). Lympho-sarcoma originates in lymphoid tissue onh-, and is thus limited primarily to the lymphatic glands, mucous membranes, and other structures, such as the tonsil, in which lymphoid tissue is normally present. It tends to cause secondary deposits in the lymphatic glands, Fig. 116.—Lympho-sarcoma of glands of neck, secondary to primary tu- mour in tonsil.