SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 84 On the surface of agar the bacillus forms a luxuriant, yellowish- white, shiny, iridescent, slimy-looking film. On potato there appears a browTiish layer of growth. Milk is coagulated within two or three days, and becomes acid. The bacillus is capable of fermenting a number of sugars with a production of acid and gas. It belongs to a large group of closely allied organisms which includes the B. typhosus, B. paratyphosus, B. dysenteries. The cultural differentiation of these micro-organisms is described briefly under B. typhosus. The optimum temperature of the bacillus coli is about 37° C, and its limits of growth from about 6° C. or 8° C. to about 46° C. or 48° C. It is killed in from 10 to 15 minutes at 60° C. in fluid suspension. Against the effects of drying it possesses a moderate resistance, varying with the nature of the vehicle in which it is contained. Upon silk threads it may remain alive for several months in a dried condition, while on a smooth surface such as that of glass it lives only a few days. In culture it survives for many months without transplantation. It is more resistant to the action of most chemical disinfectants than the other members of the group, and particularly than the B. typhosus. One per cent, carbolic acid kills it within 10 minutes, and J per cent, carbolic, acid in about 60 minutes, while the B. typhosus is destroyed in 30 minutes at this latter concentration. On inoculation subcutaneously into animals in moderate doses it produces local abscesses, especially in rabbits and guinea-pigs. In larger amounts it may give rise to general septicjemia and death. Immunity is readily evoked by the repeated inoculation of small doses of the bacillus in increasing quantities. In the human subject it may give rise to various suppurative in- flammations and chronic catarrhal affections under the conditions previously mentioned. Bacillus leprae (leprosy bacillus).—This bacillus was discovered by Armauer Hansen, who first recorded his discovery in 1872. In 1879, Hansen and Neisser independently succeeded in staining the bacillus in the tissues, and it is now accepted as the cause of leprosy. Quite recently, Twort appears to have succeeded in cultivating it. Inoculation into animals produces no definite effects. The bacillus is a rod-shaped organism very similar to the tubercle bacillus in appearance, but straighter, and possessing somewhat pointed ends. It measures about 5-6 yu. in length, by about 0'2-0"4 fi in breadth. Its staining reactions are like those of the tubercle bacillus, the organism being acid-fast and also Gram-positive. Tissues should be fixed in alcohol or in corrosive sublimate to ensure satisfactory staining by Ziehl-Neelsen's method, as otherwise (in tissues fixed in formaliUf