320 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES The actual cautery, at a dull-red heat, may be applied, or in some cases it may be advisable to re-amputate higher up the limb. 2. The hsemorrhage may be an oozing from numerous small vessels, which it will be impossible to ligature. In this case the application of the actual cautery, or packing the wound with sterile gauze, will usually arrest the bleeding. 3. In cases of secondary hsemorrhage from large vessels in the groin, abdomen, and neck it may not be possible to expose and ligature the bleeding vessels. The wound should be carefully packed with aseptic gauze, which should be left in position for several days. 4. Haemorrhage from malignant growths which have fungated is difficult to control by ligature, as even if the vessel is seen the ligature wUl not hold in the breaking-down tissue. Ligature of the main artery in continuity is the best treatment, but the advisability of doing this and prolonging a patient's life for a few weeks is doubtful. In the case of secondary hsemorrhage occurring from an artery ligatured in continuity the wound should be opened up and a ligature placed on the artery above and below the bleeding place. HEMOPHILIA Under this term many different conditions have been described, all of which have the common factor that the subject has a tendency to bleed readily and profusely, either spontaneously or from shght injuries. They have been recorded in both men and women and at all ages, and much confusion has arisen from including them all under the term " haemophilia." This word has been so loosely used that it has come almost to mean profuse hsemorrhage from a trivial or unknown cause ; but it is important to hmit it to one class of case only, and to endeavour to find an exact pathology for bleeding occurring from some other cause. Definition.—" Haemophilia " should be limited to the family bleeding disease wliich only affects the males of a family and has a definite characteristic method of inheritance. The main features of this, disease will be first described, and then some reference made to other cases of profuse bleeding which do nob come into this category. The condition is a congenital tendency to almost uncontrollable bleeding, nearly always from some slight injury, but perhaps occasionally spon- taneous ; the hsemorrhage may take place from the external surface of the body, from the mucous membranes, into serous or synovial cavities, or into the tissues generally, with formation of ecchymoses. The hereditary or family characters of this disease are well marked. The sporadic cases published from time to time do not belong to this disease, and the inheritance is almost constant in its peculiarities. The daughters of a bleeder-father do not suffer from the disease,