120 INFLAMMATION of mononucleated cells, which are found in inflammatory exudates (Plate 15, Fig. 2). There is no doubt that many of these cells have different origins, and possibly—though I do not think it is proved—different and specific functions. Thus, many of the mononucleated cells are derived from the tissues and not from the blood. Adami has classed these as histogenous leucocytes, and he includes in this group : i. Cells derived from serous, vascular, and lymphatic endothelium (Plate 16, Fig. 2).—These vary much in size and in other general characters—being small, with scanty protoplasm, and a nucleus which is very rich in chromatin ; or larger, with a more vesicular nucleus and with abundant cytoplasm. The cyto- plasm may be richly basophile, or it may be vacuolated, and the basophile characters may be partially obscured. Transition forms between these two varieties can be demonstrated in the tissues. These cells are present in inflammatory exudates in the early stages, but are not numerous until about the thirty-sixth to the forty- eighth hour. In cases where recovery is likely to take place, they go on increasing until eventually the exudate may contain only this type of cell. They are actively phagocytic both to bacteria and to foreign material, such as dead cells, pigment, etc. (Plate 17). Usually less phagocytic to bacteria than the polymorphonuclear leucocytes, they are in certain cases—especially where inflammatory reaction is due to B. tuberculosis—the principal phagocytes of these bacteria. Between the mononuclear cells of endothelial origin and the hyaline leucocytes of the blood we are not able to differentiate. As I have said elsewhere,^ " all we can assert is, that transitional forms between the actively germinating endothelial cells and free mononuclears which resemble lymphocytes can be distinguished (Plate 15). There seems, however, little doubt that a considerable proportion of the mononucleated cells of inflammatory lymph are produced by pro- liferation of endothelial cells, though some may also be derived from cells which have migrated from the blood-vessels." ii. Wandering and phagocytic cells derived from other tissues.—Besides the endothelial cells, other fixed connective- tissue cells assume phagocytic functions and show amoeboid move- ments under the influence of inflammatory irritants. This is best illustrated in inflammation of the cornea, where the fixed corneal corpuscles swell and undergo mitosis, then become separated from their normal position and relations, and take on the characters of mononucleated amoeboid phagocytes. In the exudate these cells can- not be distingiiished from the mononuclears which have been derived from the vascular endothelium. It seems quite reasonable to assume 1" General Pathology," p. 199.