MALIGNANT GROWTHS : TREATMENT 479 from careful nursing and dieting and the suitable treatment of ulcerated growths. It is impossible even to enumerate tlie many methods of treatment which have from time to time been honestly thought to be of benefit in the treatment of malignant disease, and it must suffice to refer shortly to those methods which may at the present day be tried in cases in which, for various reasons, operation is imj^racticable or in which recurrence after operation cannot be further dealt with. The results of the use of the mixed toxins of the Streptococcus erysipelatis and Bacillus prodir/iosns in cases of inoperable sarcoma certainly seem to justify a continued trial. The treatment is founded on the fact that malignant tumours, especially sarcoma, have been known to disappear after attacks of accidental erysijDclas. This induced Fehleisen, in Germany, and Coley, in New York, to inoculate with ery- sipelas patients suffering from malignant growths; and later, in 1892, Coiey first experimented with a culture of the erysipelas streptococcus sterilized by heat and filtration. He found that a febrile reaction followed the injection, and that a temporary inhibitory action was observed on the growth of malignant tumours. Roger subsequently showed that if the Bacillus prodigiosus was grown together with the erysipelas streptococcus the virulence of the latter was increased, and as the result of this observation Coley experimented with the mixed toxins—Coleifs fluid consisting of the two cultures in definite pro- portion, sterilized by heat, and with the addition of glycerine and a small quantity of thymol. After injection of the fluid, either into the tumour or elsewhere, Coley has observed that the tumour becomes at first paler and more movable, whilst, later, areas of softening due to caseous degeneration occur in it, and finally in a successful case the tumour gradually disappears by absorption or by breaking down and liquefaction. He has used the treatment in all forms of sarcoma, except melanotic growths, and has employed it in certain cases of operable sarcoma of the long bones in which only an extensive amputation would be available, and also after operations for sarcoma with a view to the prevention of recurrence. In carcinoma the results have been disappointing. Coley advises that the treatment should be commenced with an injection of a fourth of a minim into the buttock or over the pectoral muscle, and that the injection should be repeated daily with increasing doses until a febrile reaction of 102°-104° P. is obtained. If the patient is not very susceptible, small injections may also be given into the tumour, should its position allow. After the tumour has entirely disappeared the injection should be continued in smaller doses and at longer intervals for three or four months. According to Coley, the risk is small, and in only 3 out of nearly -500 cases could death be attributed to