ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 748 follow if a cerebral vessel be involved, and perhaps angina pectoris if the coronary arteries be affected. If endarteritis obliterans attacks a limb it may cause gangrene, frequently preceded by long-continued pain, and sometimes by oedema. Charcot has described a condition of intermittent limping, coming on suddenly with numbness and weakness, accompanied by pain and cramp in the limb, as a sure sign of arterial constriction. Syphilis is also a prominent factor in the causation of atheroma, partly by its toxic action and partly by causing endarteritis of the vasa vasorum, as well as in the etiology of aneurysm. The nervous system is a very frequent site of tertiary syphilitic change, and may be attacked as early as the fourth month or as late as the twentieth year after infection. Fournier's figures show that in about one-ninth of all cases of cerebral syphilis hemiplegic symptoms occur during the first year, and a larger pro- portion of spinal cases show signs before the expiration of this early period. In rare " malignant" cases cerebral and spinal affections have been recognized before the disappearance of the primary indura- tion. Nervous symptoms are especially likely to appear in neurotic individuals, in whom a history of chorea, migraine, neuralgia, etc., can frequently be obtained. Mental anxiety and strain and sexual and alcoholic excesses are certainly predisposing causes, and insuf- ficient treatment is one of the main factors in this, as in all tertiary lesions. The syphilitic virus may attack the nervous system by causing inflammation of the membranes, or blood-vessels, with subsequent occlusion of the latter, by giving rise to gummata in the brain itself, or by causing sclerosis and devitalizing the cells, and initiating the parasyphUitic affections, such as general paralysis and tabes. Gum- matous deposits most frequently originate in the membranes, are generally small and greyish-red, and scattered around the vessels. They may be found on the substance of the brain, but have then often extended inwards from the membranes. At other times the gumma may be single, large, and greyish-yellow, and then is fre- quently situated at the base of the brain and often adherent to the thickened dura mater. The symptoms and methods of localizing these lesions will be discussed in a later volume. There are no symptoms pathognomonic of cerebral syphilis ; but the following are suggestive, viz. epilepsy (commencing in middle life without loss of consciousness), aphasia, paralyses (especially ocular), mental disorders (especially loss of memory), hemiplegia, and general loss of health. Of these hemiplegia, due to endarteritis of the middle cerebral artery, is perhaps the commonest, and is usually rapid in onset, though it may have been preceded by premonitory