109 INFLAMMATION By J. M. BEATTIE, M.A., M.U. TiiKKK can be no donbt that in the majm-ity of cases the most striking features in an intiamed area are, as will be more fully shown later, the dilatation of the vessels, the slowing or even the complete arrest of the local cii'culation, the exudation of serum, and the inuni- gration of leucocytes. But, side by side with these changes, the local tissues are reacting in a way which is antagonistic to the agent that has brought about the vascular changes. The connective-tissue and other cells are proliferating, new vessels are being formed, and various changes which have for their object the repair of the chiniaged area are present in a greater or less degree. It is impossible in any given inflammatory area to say where the \ ascular changes end and the so-called reparative changes begin. Moreover, in a true inflammatory condition, one or all of the vascular changes may be absent, or may be so slight or so transitory as to be almost negligible. Again, in non-vascular areas, such as the cornea, the degree of ir-ritation may determine the nature of the reaction. There may be only slight proliferation of the corneal corpuscles, or there may be leucocyte emigration, new vessel forma- tion, etc., and, in fact, all the changes which are seen in a vascular area. The majorit}' of pathologists now accej^t the definition of Burdon- Sanderson, that inflammation is the succession of clianges occurring in a part, as the result of injury, provided that that injury be not so excessive as to destroy the vitality of the part." This definition carries us much beyond the view that inflammation is a destructive process. It is a reaction to injury, and has largely for its object the repair of that injury. Destructive processes are always present, and may be in the ascendant : but the reparative processes, too, are never completely absent, and in many cases they are in excess of and more important than the destructive ones. Thus, strictly speaking, it is not practicable to separate the two processes of iiiflaiiniiation and repair ; but for convenience of study it is advisable to describe the processes as if they were indej^endent of one another, or rather as if repair were a seijuel of inflammation.