PREPARATION OF FILMS 37 taking care not to touch the surface of the agar. Sterihze the loop, and from tube 1 infect the condensation water of tube 2, and so on, care lieing taken in each case not to touch the siu'face of the agar with the loop. In this way a number of dilutions are made in the condensation ■^^•ater of the successive tubes. Now take each tube in hand successively, and run its condensation water over the surface of the slope, or spread it over carefully by means of a sterile platinum loop. The tubes may then be incubated in the upright position, and subsequently one or more of them M ill exliibit well- isolated surface colonies from which subcultures and microscopic films may be made. Instead of agar, coagulated blood-senim may be used for making cultures. It must alivays be employed for the diagnosis of diphtheria. The use of gelatin is undesirable in this kind of work owing to the low temperature at which it becomes liquid, a temperature much below that most favourable to the growth of the majority of pathogenetic micro-organisms. Cultures thus made should be sent with the sample of pus or other material for examination, and are likely to att'ord considerable assistance to the bacteriologist. PREPARATION OF FILMS In all cases, films for microscopical examination should be prepared at once from the material available, and should accompany any sample sent for examination. This is of special importance in the case of blood and other coagulable fluids, from which good films cannot be made after coagulation has been allowed to take place. Moreover, where bacteria are preseiit, such a film gives a much more accurate idea, both of their absolute number and of the relative number of the different varieties where more than one variety occurs, than can be obtained in any other way. In some instances the preparation of films may be all that is required to establish a diagnosis with sufficient certainty. Thus, in ordinary acute cases of uretluitis, the presence of numerous organisms having the api^ear- ance of gonococci within the cells of the discharge will be enough to satisfy the surgeon ; and, similarly, the detection of acid-fast bacilli in the sjnitum will usually justify a diagnosis of tuberculosis. Method.—Films should by preference be made on microscope slides and not on cover-glasses. The latter are fragile, and difficult to handle, while the former are much more convenient and safer, and have the advantage of giving a much larger film for examination. The slides must be carefully cleaned, and the film should be spread thinly and evenly over the surface, leaving at least one quarter of the slide at one end free for holding. The pus or other material is spread uniformly in a thin layer on the slide, and then gently dried over a flame. The film is fixed by bringing the bach of the slide ujion tlie flame of a Bunsen bm'ner with lepeated stroking movements, until it is so hot as to be only just bearable for an instant against the skin of the back of the hand. In the case of sputum it is very important to pick out for (he purpose of examination the small greyish-white points of pus, avoiding the mucus and the ordinaiy yellowish-green purulent discharge fi'om the bronchi, etc.