439 ADENOMA the vitelline duct. In one recorded case a tumour of the umbilicus, similar in appearance to an adenoma, proved to be a simple angioma. Adenomatous tumours of the umbilicus are occasionally met with in the adult. Adenoma of the kidney.—In granular Iddneys, small white or yellow nodules, sometimes encapsuled, are occasionally seen in the cortex. These nodules, which consist histologically of variously altered tubules, and are by some authors described as adenomas, are the result of the cirrhotic changes, and should not be regarded as tumours. A true adenoma of the kidney, excluding the adrenal tumoui's descril)ed Itelow, is rare, and still more rarely does it assume clinical importa nee. Adrenal adenoma.—Small tumours, usually rounded in shape, and \ aiymg in size from a pea to 1 in. in diameter, are not imcommon in the cortex of the suprarenal body. They are yellow in colour, and usually have a structure resembhng that of the zona fasciculata, con- sisting of sohd columns of polyhedral cells containing fat granules and often glycogen, and separated by a delicate, scanty stroma composed chiefly of large, thin-walled capillaries. Occasionally a single tumour of larger size, but similar in structure, is found in the adrenal body. These tumours have received the name " typical hypernephroma" to distinguish them from others of a malignant form in which a more or less marked deviation occurs from the normal structure of the adrenal cortex, and which are known as " atypical hypernephroma." The very interesting fact may here be noted that numerous cases are on record in which the presence of a tumour of the adrenal, usually, however, of a malignant type, has been associated with an extraordinary degree of precocious sexual development. Bullock and Sequeira, who have analysed eleven recorded cases, show that the condition has most commonly been observed in female children, and before the age of 7 years. The most striking feature in these cases has been the early growth of hair in the genital regions, and in boys on the face, and the premature development of the genital organs. A peculiar dusky tint of the sldn has several times been noted. In Adams's case, a boy, puberty set in at 10 years, and was followed by rapid muscular development, and a growth of hair on the face whicli required to be shaved almost daily. The tumour of the left adrenal was a malignant hypernephroma, and gave rise to metastases in the liver and spleen. Besides the tumours of the adrenal itself, certain growths in other situations, notably the kidney, present a structure which is strongly suggestive of an adrenal origin, and the view is widely, although not