397 OSTEOMA—ODONTOMA which Virchow gave the name " leontiasis ossium." This afEectiou usually begins in early life as a thickening of one of the facial bones. Very gradually the enlargement extends and may spread eventually to all the facial bones and those of the cranium, producing diffuse enlargements and hyperostoses which encroach upon all the neighbouring cavities, producing hideous deformity and various symptoms due to obstruction to respiration and pressure on the brain and cranial nerves. The affected bones are converted into masses of dense, spongy, osseous tissue, the spaces of which are occupied by fibrillated tissue. Nothing is known concerning the cause and nature of the disease, and it is only in the earlier stages, when it is limited in extent, that it can at all resemble an osseous tumour. Treatment.—An ivory exostosis of the outer surface of a cranial bone rarely requires removal. Bony tumours of the frontal sinus have occasionally been removed by opening the enlarged cavity and detaching the tuniom- from its site of attachment. In the auditory meatus the removal of an osteoma may be an urgently necessary but difficult procedure. Speaking generally, it may be said that when practicable an ivory osteoma should be removed by dividing the bone from which it arises rather than by the older and more difficult method of gradually dividing the base of the tumour itself. ODONTOMA In a classification of tumom's based entirely upon structure the name " odontoma " must be restricted to those bone-like tumours wliich consist of one or more of the special dental tissues— enemal, dentine, and cement. At the present time, however, it is customary, following Bland-Sutton and other pathologists, to employ the term in a much wider sense, and to define an odontoma as " a tumour composed of dental tissues in varying proportions and different degrees of development arising from teeth-germs or teeth still in the process of development." It will be seen that, according to this definition, all tumours which are beheved to owe their origin to errors and irregularities in the development of the teeth, however widely they may differ in structure, are included under this name. The chief facts concerning the development of the teeth may briefly be mentioned. From the ejjithelium of the gum a downgrowth occurs into the mesoblast, and becoming thickened at the sites of the future teeth, forms the special enamel germ from which the enamel is developed. Into the deep sm-face of each enamel-germ a jDi'ocess of the mesoblast projects—the dental papilla—and from this the dentine and the pulp arise. Around the enamel-germ and papilla a layer of condensed vascular mesoblast forms the dental sac, from the inner