MYOMA 425 Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons, and one in the Museum of St. Thomas's Hospital. In three the bladder is that of a young child, and in all it is probable that the tumour was congenital. Shattock suggests that such a tumour, occurring in a position where voluntary muscle is not normally present, is the result of displace- ment or heterotopia, and develops from cells concerned in the forma- tion of the external sphincter of Henle, which have abnormally extended or have been displaced into the subepithelial tissue of the bladder. LEIO-MYOMA Tumours composed of unstriped muscular fibres mixed with a varying projDortion of fibrous tissue (fibro-myoma) are chiefiy met with in the uterus, but occasionally occur in the wall of the alimentary canal and in the skin. Examined microscopically, the muscle-cells are slender, elongated and fusiform, and the nuclei are rod-shaped and often sinuous. The muscle-cells are arranged in fasciculi which intersect in various direc- tions, and when the cells are seen in transverse section they appear as rounded or polygonal clear areas, in the centre of many of which the nucleus is seen as a dark spot. Between the muscle-cells is a vari- able, but usually small, amount of fibrillated connective tissue, which becomes evident in a section stained by van Gieson's method, the muscle-cells staining yellow with picric acid, and the fibrous tissue red with fuchsin. In some fibro-myomas, especially young tumours, it may be difficult to distinguish the cells from those of a spindle-celled sarcoma, but usually the latter are less uniform in shape and size, and arranged in less regular fasciculi. Fibro-myoma of the uterus.-—Fibro-myomas or " fibroids " of the uterus are extremely common, and may be single or multiple. According to their position, the tumours may be su.bserous, intramiiral, or submucous ; they are usually rounded in shape and lobulated on the surface, and may reach such an enormous size as to constitute some of the largest tumours met with in the human body. The submucous variety frequently assumes a polypoid form, and the subserous tumours are also often pedunculated. On section, a fibro-myoma of the uterus presents an appearance closely resembling that of a fibroma, the cut surface being marked by whorls and intersecting tracts of a glistening white colour (Fig. 83). Except when small, the tumour possesses a distinct fibrous capsule, and can be readily enucleated. On the cut^ surface of the tumour are often seen a few large veins, the walls of which cannot collapse on account of their intimate connexion with the tumour substance. These veins are frequently connected with an abundant plexus on the surface of the uterus, which may be a source