TUMOURS 362 The operative treatment of these diffuse, fatty growths in the neck is not very satisfactory, and is rarely called for. Eemoval of the most disfiguring parts of the growth has, hoAvever, been carried out with some success. While speaking of diffuse, fatty growths in the neck, mention must be made of those occurring in cretinism and myxcedema. The fatty masses in these cases are present chiefly in the supraclavicular fossae, and were first described in cretins by Curling in 1850, and in the subjects of myxa?dema by Ord in 1878. Shattock, who has care- fully studied these fatty formations, finds that in the situations in which they occur deposits of a special form of fa.t can be demon- strated in the human foetus. The fat cells differ from those of ordinary adipose tissue in the presence of numerous fat globules within a single cell, a peculiarity also met with in certain fatty structures in the neck and elsewhere in some of the lower animals. It has been noticed that these fatty deposits in cretins disappear, like the general excess of fat, under treatment with thyroid. Diffuse fatty growths in the limbs, sometimes congenital, consti- tute one form of macrodactyly and other varieties of local gigantism. The name " adiposis dolorosa " has been applied by Dercum of New York to an unusual condition, met with chiefly in women, and characterized by the association of diffuse and localized fatty formations, especially in the limbs, with severe pain in the affected parts. Subfascial and intermuscular lipoma.—Deeply seated fatty tumours are of practical importance chiefly by reason of the difficulty which often occurs in recognizing their nature. As examples of this variety may be mentioned lipomas occurring beneath the glu- teus maximus, in the sole of the foot, beneath the palmar fascia, and in the substance of the tongue. A deeply seated lipoma is espe- cially liable to be mistaken for a chronic abscess. Thus, in a case which came under our notice, the tumour, which lay beneath the trapezius muscle, between the right scapula and the spine, was regarded as an abscess, probably due to tuberculous disease of a rib, until its true nature was revealed by an incision. A fatty tumour in the palm may resemble the swelling caused by tuberculosis of the synovial sheath of the flexor tendons. Tubby has described a painful form of lipoma of the foot in which the tumour is situated in the inner part of the sole below the internal malleolus. The tumour is diffuse and very vascular. Parosteal lipoma is another example of a deeply seated, fatty tumour, the growth being firmly connected with periosteum. Accord- ing to Bland-Sutton the tumour is usually congenital, and nearly always contains striated muscle fibres. It has been met with in the bones of