DIFFERENTIATION OF CULTURES 9 6. MORPHOLOGICAL VARIATIONS Morphological variation is extremely common among bacteria. So much is this the case that certain organisms have been said to exhibit pleomorphism. In addition to this a very large number show so-called involution-forms Avhenever the conditions of life become at all less favourable than the optimum as regards food, temperature, etc. Pleomorphism, however, cannot properly be said to exist unless it is shown that the particular organism in question can exhibit more than one morphological type when growing under the most favourable conditions. This has not been demonstrated in a single instance. But the fact appears to be that jDractically any important change in its environment may lead to a more or less considerable alteration of form, size, arrangement, and the like in the particular bacterium concerned. 7. NAKED-EYE APPEARANCES OF C4R0WTH When bacteria have been isolated in pure culture, and are grown in different artificial media, they frequently present more or less char- acteristic and distinctive appearances. These are often of the greatest value for diagnostic purposes, since naked-eye inspection alone may afford an important clue to the identity of the bacterium concerned. Moreover, the general features of a bacterial growth are largely de- pendent on the nature of the medium employed, and particularly on whether it is fluid or solid in character. It is therefore desirable here to indicate in general terms the points of special importance for tlie differentiation of bacterial cultures by the naked eye. In a fluid culture medium a bacterial growth may dis- tinguish itself by the presence or absence of a pellicle growing on the surface. This, if present, may be thick and copious, or scanty ; it may be smooth, or wrinkled, in appearance ; and it may be pigmented, iridescent, or colourless. In other cases there may be a froth upon the surface of the fluid as the result of gas production by the bacteria. The fluid itself is either rendered turbid by the micro-organisms dis- tributed throughout it, or remains clear, the growth appearing in it in the form of larger or smaller flocculi or granular masses, which may remain suspended for a longer or shorter period, or fall as a deposit to the foot of the tube. Such a deposit may be more or less copious ; it may be cotton-wool-like in appearance, flocculent, stringy when shaken up, or dense and heavy; and it may be either j^igmeuted or colourless. When the bacteria are grown on solid media the appearances depend to a great extent on where the development takes place, whether upon the surface of the medium or in the substance of it, and upon