208 GANGRENE corpuscles, and, infiltrating ■ the sodden tissues, stains them a deep red. The putrefactive changes which now commence are due solely to the action of bacteria upon dead tissues. As the process is one of oxidation and ends in the formation of carbonic acid, water, and free nitrogen, tlie rapidity of its performance depends upon the supply of oxygen derived from the air. If this is stinted, the intermediate products are relatively greater in number, and occupy the transition stage for a longer period. Putrefactive bacteria, such as the various forms of Proteus, the Bacillus fijogenes fcetidus, and the Micrococcus fmtidus, by their action upon the complex proteid molecule, lead to the formation of a variety of chemical products, nitrogenous and non- nitrogenous. The nitrogenous products are free nitrogen, free ammonia, foul-smelling bodies, indol, skatol, tyrosin, ptomaines, and albumoses ; while the non-nitrogenous consist of gases such as carbonic acid, hydrogen, sulphuretted hydrogen, and marsh gas, also irritating organic acids, as formic, butyric, valerianic, lactic, and succinic acids. Owing to the rapidity with which the gangrenous process spreads, and the number and variety of poisonous products that are formed, constitutional symptoms are very severe, and the gravity of the con- dition is accentuated when a large area of the body, or a vital organ, such as a loop of intestine, is afi'ected. The characteristic signs of septic intoxication—high temperature, rapid feeble pulse, dry brown tongue, and muttering delirium—soon develop, and, even though energetic measures be adopted, death frequently takes place from exhaustion or pyaemia. Line of separation—In both dry and moist gangrene the dead part acts as an irritant to the living tissues immediately in contact with it, and in the latter form this irritative effect is increased by the presence of bacteria. In consequence, a process of inflammation varying in intensity with the character of the gangrene, and leading to the formation of a "line of demarcation," is set up in the living tissues. This progresses to the stage of granulation, when the pro- teolytic action of leucocytes or bacteria or both combined leads to cell necrosis, liquefaction, and suppuration. A line of ulceration circum- scribing the necrotic area now appears upon the surface; the furrow thus formed deepens gradually until separation is completed, when the dead part falls away, leaving an ulcer which heals by granulation. As the line of demarcation depends upon the inflammatory reaction in the surrounding tissues, its appearance will vary in different cases. In dry gangrene, owing to the feeble circulation in the living tissues and the absence of putrefaction in the dead, the line is ill-defined at first and forms very slowly. It is also very unstable, for owing to special circumstances which will be discussed later, the gangrene may