GANGRENE 226 III. GANGRENE DUE TO INJURY (DIRECT TRAUMATIC GANGRENE) The term " direct traumatic gangrene " is employed to denote death of the tissues from a severe injury when the necrotic process takes place at the point of application of the violence. For instance, the passage of a cart-wheel over the fingers or toes will so lacerate the vessels and crush the tissues that their vitality is destroyed at once. Injuries of this kind, if applied at a higher level, will not only cause direct gangrene, but, by damaging the vessels and nerves lead- ing to the lower part of the limb, may also lead to indirect gangrene of distal parts, as has been fully described in the section devoted to gangrene following injuries of vessels. Symptoms.—Direct traumatic gangrene is always primarily moist, because the injured tissues are loaded with fluid at the time of death ; but the local appearance and constitutional symptoms will depend upon the possibility of securing asepsis immediately after the injury. If all efforts in this direction fail, the typical signs of septic moist gangrene will develop and spread with rapidity, while the patient suffers from severe constitutional symptoms due to absorption of the products of putrefaction. But if the case is seen early, and efficient measures are taken to ensure asepsis, local signs and constitutional symptoms of septic moist gangrene do not appear. The dead part either separates en masse by a process of aseptic moist gangrene, or it becomes infiltrated Avitli connective-tissue cells, which, together with the leucocytes in the effused blood, gradually remove the necrotic material and form fresh tissue. This latter process is identical with that known as healing by blood-clot. While this is taking place, though a small portion of the dead tissue may separate in the form of a dry slough, the zone of inflammatory reaction is very slight, and consti- tutional symptoms are conspicuous by their absence. Lastly, if at the time of injury the lacerated tissues are infected with dust and dirt in which various gas-forming bacilli are present, one of the most serious forms of gangrene—viz. emphysematous gangrene—will com- mence and spread with fearful rapidity. Owing to the method of its production, this latter variety is sometimes called acute spreading traumatic gangrene. Treatment.—From the foregoing it will be readily understood that the keynote to success is the promotion of asepsis. Of course, when a foot or a hand is crushed to pulp, or when a comminuted frac- ture makes it exceedingly unlikely that the limb will be of any use, the only possible procedure is an immediate amputation through living tissues ; but, when the part is not quite so severely injured, it may be possible to save it by adopting conservative measures. For