910 DISEASES DUE TO ANIMAL PARASITES Clinical manifestations of filariasis. 1. Filarial ab- scess.—Abscesses, particularly about the scrotum, may occur as a result of filariasis, and may sometimes be the first indication of the condition. In some cases they are due to the death of the parent worm, wliich may be found entire in the cavity of the abscess, or in pieces incorporated with the substance of its wall. The dead worm may, however, in many cases be entirely absorbed without producing any irritation. Most filarial abscesses are produced by lymphangitis which has suppurated, the process being comparable with that of an ordinary septic lymphangitis which ends in pus-formation. Maxwell divides these abscesses into three main groups, according to their situation, as follows :— 1. In the scrotum, where they may occur as (a) suppurating hydrocele ; (6) abscess of the spermatic cord ; or (c) abscess below the testicle. 2. In the limbs, occurring in situations rich in lymphatic tissue, and generally in the immediate neighbourhood of the great vessels. They are particularly common in the axilla and the popliteal space. 3. Intrathoracic and intra-abdominal abscesses. The former de- velop in the posterior mediastinum, and cannot be easily diagnosed. The latter are most common in the retroperitoneal tissue, especially in the iliac region. In these cases, according to Manson, there may be deep-seated pain in the thorax or abdomen with a hectic tempera- ture and the ordinary signs of abscesses, so far as they can show them- selves, and with a very marked diminution in the number of embryos or even their complete disappearance from the blood. The condition sets in with a prolonged rigor, followed by a high temperature in a filarial subject. Sometimes this may be associated with or preceded by an attack of lymphangitis, which usually is the precursor either of an abscess or of elephantiasis. The treatment naturally consists in free incision and drainage, whenever possible. 2. Lymphangitis and elephantoid fever.—^At any stage inflammation ot lymphatic tracks may develop, with marked signs of septic lymphangitis. Fever is high and usually preceded by a pro- longed rigor ; inflammation and induration along the lymphatics and redness and congestion of the sldn are prominent features. Abscess- formation may occur, or relief may be gained by the discharge of lymph from the surface of the swollen skin. Recovery is incomplete, for some thickening of the lymphatics and induration of the skin persist, which, increased by each subsequent attack, finally induce well-developed elephantiasis. The attacks of fever and lymphangitis are particularly common in elephantiasis, lymph scrotum, and varicose groin-glands. If it is