786 SALVARSAN IN TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS able reduction in the proportion of cases wliich suiier tliese after- effects since we adopted the practice of preparing the salt solution immediately before sterilizing it. Choice of method.—Comparing the intramuscular with the subcutaneous injection, the latter is more liable to be followed by- sloughing of the sldn, though Wechselmann holds that slougliing is mostly due to faulty technique. Against the intramuscular method it is urged that the resulting infiltration with inflammatory material may limit the function of the muscle, and the intramuscular injection into the glutei may be followed by troublesome symptoms from irritation of the sciatic nerve. Against both methods is the fact that the remedy is very slowly and irregularly absorbed from the site of injection, i^ossibly so slowly that the parasites may not be destroyed but only suppressed. The injection is also followed by considerable discomfort to the patient. In favour of the local methods is the fact that, if the remedy is slowly absorbed, its effect is maintained for a much longer time than in the case of the intravenous injection. It is claimed in favour of the local methods that if by any chance the patient should develop alarming symptoms from hypersensitiveness to the drug, it would be possible to cut down and wash out the salvarsan. In favour of the intravenous method are the facts that absorption, and consequently an intense action on the parasites, is assured, that the after-effects pass away very quickly, and that it is practically painless. Against it is its possibly evanescent effect owing to rapid excretion, so that parasites lying within thrombosed areas may never be reached by the drug before it is excreted. In this connexion we may mention that Beveridge and Walker did not find arsenic in the urine after the ninth day follo\\"ing an intravenous injection of 0 6 grm., while Greven found that arsenic excretion continued for fourteen days after a sub- cutaneous injection of 04 grm., and seventeen to eighteen days after 045-0'6 grm. given intramuscularly, and Lockemann foimd arsenic in very small amounts in the urine as late as the thirty-sixth day after an intramuscular injection of 0 3 grm. in acid solution. Ehrlich is strongly in favour of the first injection, at any rate, being intravenous. Schreiber, as well as Iversen, recommends an initial intravenous injection followed in twenty-four to forty-eight hours by an intramuscular. Wechselmann, amongst others, finds no advantage in the intravenous over the subcutaneous injection of his emulsion. Kromayer gives an intramuscular injection of 01 grm. in his parolein emulsion daily till 1 grm. has been administered. It is very difficult to decide at this stage which method to choose. Our own practice for some time past has been to adhere to the intravenous method, on account of the discomfort to the patient wliich follows the local