INTRAVENOUS INJECTION 785 between the Y-piece and the needle ; the rubber band should then be removed, the containers raised to a height of about three feet above the patient, and the tube leading from the salt solution container opened. If the needle is not properly in the vein a swelling will form in its neighbourhood when the salt solution is turned on. In this case a little manipulation of the needle may rectify its position, but, failing this, another vein must be selected. If no swelling occurs over the vein the flow of salt solution is stopped, and that of salvarsan started by manipulating the clips. When the salvarsan solution has almost reached the bottom of its container, about 20 c.c. of salt solution is poured in on top of it so as to assist the last few c.c. of the remedy along the tube. When the upper level of this is seen to pass the upper glass window, this tube is closed, and the salt solution turned on again to wash the needle and vein free from salvarsan solution. The needle is then removed, and a dressing applied. We find the double con- tainer most convenient, but with very little more trouble a single one can be used. In this case the operator first puts salt solution in the container to about an inch from its bottom, and runs a little of it into the vein ; he then pours the dose of salvarsan solution in on top of the salt solution, and fuiishes with more salt solution as when using the double container. If a syringe be preferred, it is best to have one in which the connexion between the needle and the rest of the apparatus is broken by a flexible piece. Of the syringes in use, probably McDonagh's modification of Sohreiber's is the most con- venient. In this the needle is made so that it can be lightly fastened to the arm. Behind the needle, to which it is connected by a short piece of rubber tubing, is a three-way tap, by turning wluch, and working the piston, solution can be alternately drawm into the syringe and injected into the vein. Salt solution is at first injected, then salvarsan, and, finally, salt solution, on the same principle as when using the transfusion apparatus. Speaking generally, one can introduce the solution by either method in about ten minutes without distress to the patient. After-effects of an intravenous injection.—In a very few cases, especially if food has been taken within the last three hours, the patient may vomit at once. Symptoms, when they do occur, come on, as a rule, three to four hours later, when the most frequent is a feeling of chilliness which often becomes a defijiite rigor, and this may last for an hour or more. The temperature rises to 101°-103°, and there are the usual general symptoms of fever. In a small proportion of cases there may be fairly severe vomiting and diarrhoea, and this may in very rare cases continue till the following evening. As a rule, all symptoms, beyond a slight headache and a feehng of depression, have passed ofi by the following day. We have noted a very consider-