SURGICAL DISEASES CAUSED BY ANIMAL PARASITES—SNAKE-BITES, ETC. By frank cole MADDEN, M.D., F.R.C.S. BILHARZIOSIS The parasite.—The Schistosomum hatmatohiiim (Billiarz, 1851) is a paired trematode worm, the long, slender female lying, during sexual activity, in a ventral groove, the gyneecophoric canal, of the male, wliich is 1 cm. long, shorter and more tapering than the female. The youngest worms, then very small and usually separate, are found in the radicles of the portal vein. Erom the portal vein itself, where they are generally seen coupled, the parasites reach the mesenteric veins, where they become sexually mature, and finally settle in the veins of the rectum, bladder, and other viscera in venous connexion with these organs. They not infrequently pass over into the systemic circulation, and may become impacted in the lungs, subcutaneous tissue, or other parts of the body. The ova (Fig. 241) are blunt spindles (0'16 mm. long) encased in yellowish shells bearing a terminal or a lateral spine, and, when impreg- nated, containing an unsegmented egg-cell and several yolk-cells. Some immature, unimpregnated, and then usually lateral-spined ova may be deposited in the liver, but most are laid in the rectal and vesi- cal sabmucosa, which may become packed with ova, developing and ever endeavouring to escape into the urine or fajces. If the liberated ovum reaches water, it bursts and frees a miracidium, wluch rapidly hatches, becomes ciliated and actively swimming, and attacks a fresh host by penetrating any skin exposed to the infected water. Pathological effects.—In the circulation the worms do not appear to produce any pathological effects ; but in the tissues they and their ova provoke a marked irritative-protective reaction, leading to proliferation of epithelium and infiltration of the deeper tissues with round cells, and later to development of a fibro-cellular tissue whose structure varies with the particular organ or tissue affected. Sepsis may intervene as the epithelial surfaces become abraded, especially in cases of repeated re-infections.