ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 756 without warning; it is general and extensive from the first, instead of spreading gradually from localized spots; it is more intense, and causes more salivation, swelling of salivary glands, and ulceration of the gums. 3. It is dirty, inconvenient, and difficult to apply efficiently in ordinary circumstances. It involves the giving up of at least an hour a day by the patient, and by its staining of linen renders secrecy difficult. Effects on rubbers.—I have never seen any ill effects to rubbers, although following the custom at Aix, where no artificial protection for the hands is used. At Wiesbaden and other places glass balls and slabs are used in rubbing ; but the experience at Aix, which coincides with my own, is that rubbing can be done much more efficiently with the bare hand. Conclusion.—Until recently I used the inunction method exten- sively for sclerotic and for cerebral and spinal cases ; but I have now replaced it in my practice by intramuscular injections of calomel, on account of the more rapid and intensive action of the latter method, and of the above-mentioned disadvantages of inunction. I believe that inunction should be reserved for certain forms of cerebral and spinal syphilis, for cases which have proved refractory to other methods, and for cases in the young. II. THE INGESTION OR INTERNAL METHOD This method relies upon oral administration of mercury and its subsequent absorption by the stomach and intestines. It is the plan usually employed to this day in British practice. Before describing its technique, it may be well to consider its advantages and dis- advantages. Advantages.—It is claimed (1) that this is the easiest and most convenient method for the patient, and (2) that it is free from certain dangers and inconveniences inherent in other methods, e.g. that it is less likely to be followed by stomatitis, and that if this does occur it is of a milder type than that caused by other methods. As regards convenience, however, it is my opinion that an injection once a week is less irksome to the patient than the necessity for medicine-taking three, four, or perhaps five times a day for many months. Certainly the stomatitis may be less severe than when it is produced by inunc- tion or intramuscular injection ; but it is none the less frequent, especially when compared with the intramuscular method. Disadvantages.—The drawbacks of the ingestion method are : (1) Uncertainty as to the amount of the drug absorbed. Mercurial pills may be passed through the intestine unchanged. (2) There is great liability to gastro-intestinal disturbance, with diarrhoea, debility.