77 BACILLUS PESTIS is about 42° C. or 43° C, with an optimum at 37° C. It exliibits very low resistance to external agencies, and is destroyed in about 5 minutes at 60° C. When dried up it dies in less than 24 hours, and in fluid media is equally susceptible, though in moist sputum it may live for as long as from 10 to 14 days. In culture it must be transplanted every second day to ensure its continued growth. Bacillus pestis (Plague bacillus).—This organism (Plate 6, Fig. 4), discovered independently by Yersin and Kitasato in 1894, is only of surgical interest in connexion with the buboes which are formed in ordinary cases of bubonic plague. It is an oval, rod-shaped organism with rounded ends, of rather variable size, very similar in appearance to Ducrey's bacillus, and measuring about l'5-2 ^ long, by 0'5-0'7 jx wide. It is not motile, and has no flagella. It does not form spores. Sometimes, especially in films from pathological material, it presents the appearance of a definite capsule. It stains readily with the ordinary basic aniline dyes, and exhibits marked polar staining. It is Gram-negative. It grows well on all ordinary media at the body temperature, and growth continues down to 5° C. or 6° C. ; its optimum is between 25° C. and 30° C, and its maximum about 42° C. or 43° C. In bouillon it produces a fine granular or slightly flocculent deposit, and there may be a slight turbidity of the medium. If a little oil be placed upon the surface of the bouillon a somewhat characteristic appearance is produced by the formation of " stalactites " of growth extending downwards from the drops of oil. In films from bouillon cultures the organism is present in long chains. On the surface of agar there appears a continuous line of whitish growth, smooth and transparent, and exhibiting an irregular or wavy margin. The centre of the streak assumes a darker tinge and becomes brownish-grey. Gelatin is not liquefied. Involution forms are rapidly produced in great variety in artificial cultures of this organism. Bacillus pyocyaneus—The bacillus of "blue" (bluish-gr.iai) pus was first isolated by Gessard in 1882 ; its pigment, pyocyanin, had already been separated from blue pus by Fordos in 1860. The organism is a tiny slender rod with rounded ends, of very variable length, measuring from 0'6 to 2 or 3 fx, and even up to 6 fjb in length, by 0-3-0-6 /i. in breadth. It is very highly motile, and exhibits a single terminal flagellum. It does not form spores. It stains readily with aqueous solutions of the ordinary basic aniline dyes. It is Gram-negative. It is strongly aerobic, but a facultative anaerobe. When grown aerobically it rapidly produces a highly fluorescent blue-green colouring