DROWNING 6io condition of the lung. It is not litres of air that the patient requires to restore the action of his nerve centres. Application of warmth.—It is important that at the earliest possible moment wet clothes should be replaced by dry and warm coverings, and the body temperature gradually restored by rubbing and drying the skin of the limbs and trunk. Artificial warmth in the form of hot bottles or bricks is also recommended, with the proviso that such application be made gradually. Death may occur after a tem- porary restoration of respiration, owing to air-embolism or heart- failure. The water in the air-passages is quickly absorbed and excreted, but pneumonia may follow from the foreign matter thus carried into the lungs. Methods of artificial respiration. Mouth-to-mouth inflation.— After the preliminary compression of the body in the face-down pos- ture, turn the patient on the back, place one hand lightly over the epigastrium, close the nostrils with the other ; breathe gently into the patient's mouth until the epigastrium is felt to heave ; then com- press the epigastrium. Repeat twenty times per minute. Schdfer method.—1. The patient and operator are placed as shown in Fig. 169. The operator's hands rest over the lowest ribs on each side of the spine. 2. The operator brings his own weight gradually on to his hands and arms (Fig. 170) ; the patient's chest is compressed ; air and blood are forced from the thorax : this is the expiratory movement. 3. The operator again assumes the position shown in Fig. 169 ; the thorax expands ; air is drawn into the lungs. These movements are repeated twelve times per miniite, and are continued until the spon- taneous respirations return. Even in apparently hopeless cases such movements should be continued for at least one hour. Silvester method.—After a preliminary compression of the body in the prone position, the patient and operator are placed as shown in Fig. 171. Turn the face to the side, draw forward the lower jaw and tongue to secure an open condition of the pharynx. 1. The operator seizes the patient's arms as shown in Fig. 171, and allows his weight to fall on them, thus forcing the arms against the patient's thorax and causing a preliminary expiration. 2. The arms are then raised into the position shown in Fig. 172, the elevation being accompanied by an inward rotation of the arms, thus rendering the pectorals taut and causing the thorax to expand and air to be drawn in. The inward rotation of the arms is absolutely essential. These movements are carried on at the rate of fifteen respirations per minute. The Schafer method is simpler and easier than the Silvester, but less eft'ective.