TUMOURS 584 of development into an individual, whilst tlie other portion fails to undergo immediate development, and, becoming included within the body of the former, subsequently gives rise to a mixed tumour (foetal inclusion). According to this view the process is closely allied to that by which the various forms of double monster are produced, but in this case the part of the divided embryonic area, which in the other instance forms the tumour, develops into an attached individual or part of an individual. 2. Another possible mode of formation, which can, however, only be applied to tumours of the ovary and testicle, is that they arise by the spontaneous development of a germinal cell. Among the various views which have been advanced in this connexion is that which supposes the process to be analogous to parthenogenesis (the develop- ment of an unfertilized ovum) as observed in some of the lower animals, whilst Shattock suggests that a tumour may result from an ovum fertilized by a spermatozoon included in the ovary during the process of its development. 3. During the segmentation of the ovum after fertilization it is supposed that one of the blastomeres may become displaced, and that, remaining included in some part of the body, it develops subsequently into a tumour. 4. Lastly, it is probable that mixed tumours may in some instances arise as a result of local developmental errors, such as duplication or the delayed growth of a portion of undifferentiated tissue in situations where the different blastodermic layers come into juxtaposition. Thus, duplication of the mandible has been supposed to accomit for certain tumours in the neck, whilst it is possible that some mixed tumours of the testicle may arise in tissue which has become embedded in the organ during the early stages of its development and brought down with it during its descent. From what has been said, it is evident that mixed tumours of this class must differ very widely in their clinical characters and in their structm'e. It is thus impossible to give any general description of them, and it must suffice to describe the chief characters which they present in the most important situations in which they occur. It may, however, be mentioned that although in many instances they behave as benign growths, it is not rare, especially in certain situations, to find a tumour evidently of this nature exhibiting evidences of malig- nancy. Such a malignant change may occur in the epithelial or in the connective-tissue elements, and thus the resulting growth may behave as a carcinoma or as a sarcoma, whilst occasionally the extensions of the growth reproduce to a varying extent the complex structure of the primary tumour. Teratoma of the ovary usually occurs as the well-known