838 COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRHCEA discharges, their origin is not known. It has been supposed that the growth is the result of a specific micro-organism, but proof is wanting. Treatment.—There is seldom any difficulty in effectually dealing with this condition. The irritating discharge must be treated and the affected part kept scrupulously clean. In many cases this is all that is necessary to cause the warts to shrivel up and disappear. If they persist they may be touched occasionally with strong alcohohc solution of perchloride of mercury, and kept dusted with an astringent powder, such as alum, oxide of zinc, or resorcin. Larger growths are best removed with the knife or scissors, and the base should be touched with the cautery to arrest the haemorrhage. INFLAMMATION OF COWPER'S GLANDS Occasionally the small glands of Cowper, which are situated in the perineum on either side of the urethra, become inflamed. When this happens, a firm, painful swelling, about the size of a pigeon's egg, forms in the perineum, midway between the scrotum and the anus. Should the inflammation proceed to the formation of an abscess, the swelling increases in size until it impedes, more or less, the passage of urine and renders deffecation painful. The skin over it becomes red and acutely tender. If unrelieved, the abscess generally bursts externally, but may do so into the urethra or, more rarely, into the rectum. The treatment consists in the application of hot fomentations to the perineum, to relieve the pain in the early stages, and the free opening of the abscess from the perineum as soon as pus is detected. It is undesirable to delay the opening of these abscesses, as otherwise they may burst into the urethra or rectum, and give rise to trouble- some sinuses. LYMPHANGITIS AND LYMPHADENITIS In almost every case of acute gonorrhoea in which the symptoms are at all severe the inguinal lymphatic glands will be found to be slightly swollen and tender. Generally this lymphadenitis soon sub- sides, and hardly calls for special treatment. More rarely the inflam- mation is of a severer type, causing considerable distress, and pro- ceeding eventually to the formation of one or more abscesses or buboes. The lymphadenitis may or may not be accompanied by an inflam- mation of the cutaneous lymphatic vessels (lymphangitis) of the penis. When this is present, faint, thin, red lines are seen in the skin of the penis, rmming from the glans towards the pubes. If the penis be palpated, the inflamed lymphatic vessels can be felt as firm cords, about the size of a steel knitting-needle. The presence of these inflamed lymphatics may give rise to various distortions of the penis, as in chordee.