LIGATION GANGRENE 215 vene ; but in this case, as the tissues are loaded with fluid at the time of death, and the source of natural drainage is cut ofl^, the gangrene will be moist. When ligation in continuity is performed for the cure of aneurysm, the conditions are somewhat different. Proximal liga- ture close' to the sac, by Anel's method, is usually free from danger ; but the Hunterian operation, or proximal ligature at a distance from the sac, should it succeed in curing the aneurysm, places a double block upon the circulation, one at the site of ligature, and one at the clotted aneurysm ; consequently, the life of the part below the sac depends upon the dilatation of two distinct sets of collateral vessels. The symptoms and treatment in general are so similar to those of embolic and thrombotic gangrene that repetition is unnecessary. One detail of treatment, however—the site of amputation—requires discussion. It is not always necessary to amputate at the level of the ligature if the artery alone is occluded, as an efficient collateral circu- lation will nourish the tissues for a considerable distance below. This is specially noticeable when the superficial femoral artery is tied, for the profunda will easily rise to the occasion and supply the limb as far as the knee. Hence a knowledge of the anatomy of the arteries, and the exercise of a little patience in waiting for a collateral circula- tion to develop, will often permit of an amputation considerably lower than the seat of obstruction. 5. Gangrene due to injury of vessels.—This form is sometimes spoken of as indirect traumatic gangrene, because the tissues which die are generally at a distance from the seat of the injury. Railway accidents, cart-wheel crushes, bullet wounds, fractures, etc., cause injuries to the vessels of varying severity. In the first place, a slight contusion may cause a simple plastic endarteritis or endophlebitis which will be followed by thrombosis ; secondly, an injury of greater severity may lead to rupture of the intima alone, when thrombosis and complete occlusion of the vessel will ensue; thirdly, the vessel may be ruptured or completely divided, and the effused blood, by collecting in the tissues, so compresses the neighbour- ing vessels as to complete the obstruction ; fourthly, a displaced frag- ment of a fractured bone may lacerate a vessel, or so compress it as to stop the cii'culation in it; and fifthly, the violence may be so severe that every structure in the limb at the site of its application is immediately destroyed. {8ee Direct Traumatic Gangrene, p. 22(5.) Symptoms.—The form of gangrene that develops depends entirely upon the nature of the injury, the vessel or vessels that are damaged, and the presence or absence of septic infection. If the main artery alone is damaged, pulsation in the vessel ceases abruptly at the site of injury, and the limb below becomes pallid, cold, insensitive, and functionless. Witliin twenty-four to forty-eight hours, provided that