DISEASES OF THE CHEST 645 Pneumothorax.—The increased translucency, flattening of the diaphragm on the affected side, and displacement of the mediastinal contents and heart towards the opposite side, together with the pre- sence of collapsed lung, render this disease readily recognizable. These signs are to be seen in Plate 66, Fig. 2, a radiogram of the thorax in a case of simple left pneumothorax. Collapsed lung is to be seen in the position indicated by the arrow. Even small quantities of fluid in the pleural cavity can be recognized radiographically by the obliter- ation of the outUne of the diaphragm, and the increased and homo- geneous opacity of the lower part of the thorax on the affected side, when the patient is in the erect posture. Unless air is also present in the pleura, the upper limit of the opacity is somewhat vague. In the recumbent position the whole affected side is homogeneously opaque, and in this posture the amount of fluid may be deduced from the density of the shadow and from the degree of visceral displacement. By combined examination in the erect and the recumbent attitudes, an ajiproximate estimate may be made of the amount of fluid in the pleural cavity, but no determination of its character, whether jnirulcnt or serous, is possible. Hydro - pneumothorax and pyo - pneumothorax.— When air, as well as serous effusion or pus, is present in the pleuj'al cavity, signs similar to those described above are seen ; but in this case, when the patient is in the upright posture, the upper limit of the opacity is not indistinct, but forms a sharply defined horizontal line, the level of which entirely depends on the amount of fluid present. Differential diagnosis.—The presence of fluid in the pleura may be distinguished from such a disease as fibrosis of the lung by the fact that in the latter, although the cavity as a whole may be opatjue, yet some part shows translucency; that is, the shadow cast by fluid is homogeneous, while that due to a fibrotic lung is heterogeneous. New growths of the lung, which clinically may be confused with pleural effusion, are recognizable by X-ray examina- tion on account of the fact that they also, though they render the 23leura oj^aque, do not cast a homogeneous shadow like fluid. When these new growths are accompanied by i^leural effusion their presence is thereby masked, but it is possible to demonstrate the jjresence of new growth after the fluid has been removed by aspiration. A condition which, at first sight, does not seem likely to be confused with pleural effusion is an aneurysm of the aorta—more particularly of the descending aorta—when of sufiicient size to obscure the lower part of the pleural cavity. Such confusion, however, is possible, and the means by which it can be avoided will be dealt with later. Empyema of the pleural cavity may get shut off by adhesions, and so become localized. The diagnosis of the presence and position of such