THE PRIMARY SORE 7-5 B.—EXTRAGENITAL CHANCRES Chancres may be situated on any part of the body, but are gener- ally found on those parts most liable to exposure to infection—e.g. mouth, tongue, lips, and fingers. Th" mode of conveyance ma)' be by direct contact with a syphilitic lesion, as in the act of kissing, or by mediate contagion through contaminated spoons, forks, drinking utensils, pipes, etc., or through the agency of infected surgical or dental instruments. The diagnosis of extragenital chancres is sometimes rendered difficult by the fact that the characteristics of the sore vary with the locality affected. Chancres of fingers are the commonest extragenital chancres. Generally found at the edges or bases of the nails, they are usually eroded and often ulcerated, with well-marked and extensive indura- tion. Oftentimes the sore develops so insidiously and looks so inno- cent that it is apt to be overlooked till secondary symptoms appear. On the other hand, it may develop into a large, hard, fleshy mass, purplish in colour, and with exuberant vegetations on its soft surface. One type of sore resembles a whitlow : the terminal phalanx of the finger is red, swollen, painful, and sensitive, whilst the surrounding tissue is indurated. These chancres are remarkable for their long duration and painful character. The nail nearly always separates from the finger, and often the bone necroses. The axillary and epitrochlear glands are always chronically enlarged. Chancre of the lip (Plate 73, Fig. 1) begins as a chap or fissure. At first not characteristic, in time it becomes an indolent, <?levated sore, papule, or pustule, with smooth surface and scanty glistening discharge, and with comparatively early and marked " car- tilaginous " induration. Later on, the submental lymphatic glands become indolently and painlessly enlarged. Labial chancre may be mistaken for epithelioma, but the following points, in addition to the presence or absence of the spirochete, serve to differentiate them :— L Labial chancre may occur in either sex and at any age ; labial opitlielioma is chiefly met with in men, and about middle life. 2. The u.sual site of laljial chancre is the upper lip : of labial opithelioma, the lower lip. 3. Labial chancre develops in a few weeks, and gland enlargement ensues in about two weeks ; labial epithelioma develops much more slowly, and the glands are aflected at a much later period. 4. Labial chancre appears as a painless papule, erosion, or ulcer with regular outline, smooth surface, indurated edges, and scanty and thin discharge ; labial epithelioma as a painful, irregular, ragged sore which bleeds easily, has a thick and oft'ensive discharge, and is indurated irregularly if at all.