CARCINOMA 471 nexion it may be stated that among the 500 cases of cancer of the breast referred to above, the average age at which the disease was first noticed was 49-62 years, whereas among the 81 cases in which any evidence of heredity could be traced tlie average age was 48-74 years. The difference in this series of cases is so small as to be negligible, but individual cases of carcinoma occurring at an unusually early age are sometimes met with, as in one of the families mentioned above, in which the probable eifect of heredity cannot be disregarded. A study of the geographical and zoological distribution of car- cinoma shows that it occurs in all parts of the woi'ld and in all classes of vertebrates. There is no proof that it occurs endemically, and the evidence that the disease is more prevalent in some districts than in others, and that in certain houses successive inmates have died from it, is not sufficient to suggest the exi.stence of any external ex- citing cause. The greater prevalence of certain forms of cancer in jjarticular districts can usually be explained by causes other than any climatic influence. Thus, the frequency of cancer of the mouth in the women of India and Ceylon is not due to the mere fact of locality, but to the practice of chewing betel nut to which the women in those countries are addicted. The most striking fact with regard to the age at which malignant disease usually occurs is that sarcoma is most common in childhood and early adult life, and carcinoma in the middle and later periods. If a curve representing the frequency of carcinoma at the different age-periods is studied it will be found that from birth to the age of 20 it practically does not rise : from 20 to 40 a very slight and gradual rise occurs, after which the curve rises with a sudden and steep ascent to the maximum at about 55, whilst in advanced years there is again a rapid fall. The average age at which carcinoma is most common varies some- what with the different forms of the disease. Thus, it is somewhat earlier in the stomach than in the rectum, in the tongue than in the lips, and in the uterus than in the breast. Many instances, proj^erly authenticated, of the occurrence of carci- noma in early life have been recorded. In a paper dealing with this subject, by PhilUp of Zwickau, the most striking published cases have been collected. i\.mong them are the following : Bethe's case of cancer of the rectum in a boy of 10, with secondary growths in the lymphatic glands, liver, and mediastinum ; Norman Moore's case of carcinoma of the stomach in a girl of 13 ; Kiihn's case of cancer of the pancreas in a child of 2, with a secondary growth in the Imig ; and Braunsta's case of squamous carcinoma of a burn scar on the forearm of a girl of 12. As far as we laiow, the earliest recorded case of carcinoma of the uterus is that by Ganghofner, in which the disease began at