TUMOURS 536 need consideration liere. The growth may arise at any part of the surface of the tongue, but the favourite site is the lateral border at or about its middle. The tumour almost always has the structure of a squamous-celled carcinoma, and, as in other situations, may assume a warty or an ulcerating form, whilst in the large majority of cases some definite precancerous condition can be recognized. In many instances the disease arises at a spot where the tongue has been per- sistently irritated by a carious tooth, and it is extremely important to recognize that a small ulcer on the border of the tongue which proves intractable and refuses to heal after the removal of any irritation caused by the teeth should be regarded with grave suspicion and excised. In other cases the growth originates in the spot at which the stem of a tobacco pipe habitually comes in contact with the tongue, and causes a local change in the mucous membrane similar to the changes met with more diffusely in chronic superficial glossitis. Fig. 141.—Carcinoma of tongue, developing in a warty patch caused by chronic superficial glossitis. {Unive?-sity College Hos/y'ital Aluscuui.) In the most marked cases of the latter af?ection, syphilis is the causal agent, but in some instances there is no evidence of a syphilitic taint, and the changes in the mucous membrane are associated with alcoholic excess and chronic dyspepsia. The most common mani- festation of chronic superficial glossitis is the presence of smooth, white or bluish-white patches (leucoplakia) in which the papillse are more or less completely absent. In association with this condition fissures and superficial ulcers are common, and another not uncommon result of the chronic inflammation is the formation of a slightly raised warty patch in which the papillse, instead of shrinking, remain per- manently hypertrophied. The important part played by this affection of the tongue as a precursor of cancer was first pointed out by Hulke in 1864. The malignant growth may originate in any of the mani- festations of the superficial inflammation, but especially in a fissure, ulcer, or warty patch (Fig. 141). It will thus be seen that carcinoma of the tongue rarely manifests