454 TUMOURS dently of any cystic disease, and may form a tumour of considerable size. Such growths are entirely benign, and show no tendency to implantation. MALIGNANT TUMOURS It has already been pointed out that a malignant tumour differs from a simple or benign tumour in its mode of growth; that in what- ever part it originates it exhibits an invariable tendency to invade and destroy the surrounding tissues, and often, sooner or later, to disseminate itself in distant parts. It has further been stated that in its structure a malignant tumour is usually strikingly " atypical,'" and in its growth departs very widely from the structure of the part in which it originated, and that the cells composing it become endowed with a power of progressive growth which continues until a fatal result is almost invariably produced. Tumours exhibiting malignant characters are represented by two great classes—the sarcomas or malignant connective-tissue tumours, and the carcinomas, or malignant epithelial tumours. Some degree of confusion still exists in the nomen- clature of malignant growths on account of the popular use of the name " cancer " for all tumours of this nature—a relic of the times when sarcoma and carcinoma were imperfectly recognized as distinct forms of growth. The older writers, depending mainly for their descriptions of tumours upon some very obvious feature, such as consistence, adopted the terms " encephaloid " and " scirrhus " for those presenting marked softness or hardness respectively. Again, it is still very usual to apply the name " epithelioma " to those forms of carcinoma which originate from a surface epitheUum. Thus, although a maUgnant epithelial growth in the breast is always kno-woi as a car- cinoma, a malignant growth arising in the epithelium of the tongue or rectum is known indiscriminately as a carcinoma or as an epithelioma. In order to simplify the nomenclature, and also because the name " epithelioma " has been appHed, especially by French pathologists, to certain epithelial growths of a simple nature, we shall use only the term " carcinoma " for all forms of malignant epithelial growth. Distinctive characters of carcinoma and sarcoma. —Before proceeding to describe the different forms of malignant tumours it will be convenient to consider certain features common to all, and it will render this the easier if the essential characters of the sarcomas and carcinomas respectively are first described. The essential constituent of each form of malignant tumour is re- presented by the cell elements, although, especially in the carcinomas, the characters of the stroma will need subsequent consideration. A sarcoma consists essentially of a mass of more or less undifferentiated connective-tissue cells, whilst a carcinoma is composed essentially of