373 PLEXIFORM NEURO FIBROMA tiasis next to be described. The affection is usually noticed at or soon after birtb, but increases subsequently. The tumour, which usually causes no symptom beyond deformity, is often strikingly pendulous, and is covered with skin which may )je either normal or pigmented (Fig. 49). The most character- istic feature is the peculiar sensation given to the fingers by the convoluted cords formed by the thickened nerves in the tu- mour. In the scalp the tumour may occupy a groove or an actual opening in the skull. In the orbit a plexiform neuroma may occasion some degree of proptosis, and is usually associated with a characteristic sweHing in the surrounding parts, such as the temporal region (Fig. 50). In some instances the fibromatosis involves the ciliary nerves, and l)uphthaImos has been present in many of the recorded cases. When occurring in the tongue, plexi- form neuro-fibroma gives rise to one va- riety of macroglossia. The first case of this kind was brought before the Pathological Society of London in 1902, by Shattock and Abbott, and subsequent observations of a similar nature have been made by Thursfield, Billington, Rusca, Delfino, and Spencer and Shattock. In Shattock and Abbott's case the child, 4 years of age, presented an enlargement of the left half of the tongue which had probably been present since birth, although it had sul)- sequently increased. In the submaxillary triangle and upper part of the neck there was a marked fullness which could be felt to consist of knotted cords. E.xamination of the enlarged part of the tongue after removal showed the nerves to be the seat of a fibromatosis which extended into the conical and fungiform papillae. The mass removed from the neck was a typical plexiform neuro-fibroma which extended into the substance of the submaxiUary gland. In Billing- ton's case the tumour of the tongue was associated with multiple subcutaneous tumours and swellings on various parts of the lumbar and sacral plexuses and their branches ; whilst in Spencer and Fig. 48. -Plexiform neuro- fibroma, dissected to show fibrous thicken- ings on a nerve. From a case of neuro-fibro- matous macroglossia. (S/L-/lCcr and .Shatt,h/c. I'roc. Roy. S,v. Mt-d., i;u7, rv/. i.