VITAL PROCESSES OF BACTERIA 17 certain. Some of tlieni find their food material in the simplest sub- stances, and can build up highly complex protein compounds by a series of unknown syntheses from these elementary sources. Thus, certain forms can live and multijjly when supplied with inorganic substances alone (carbon dioxide, ammonia nitrates,) ; others re- quire organic nourishment of a simple kind (e.g. tartrates) ; while the majority only carry on their metabolism when supplied with highly complex food materials (such as proteins or carbohydrates). They exhibit a remarkable activity in the processes of assimi- lation and dissimilation, and obtain the energy required for their elaborate syntheses from the decompositions and oxidations which they carry on within their protoplasm, or which they bring about in the surrounding medium by means of ferments. ii. Respiration.—Aerobic bacteria, which require free oxygen in order to carry on their normal oxidations, may be regarded as exhibiting the phenomenon of respiration. They take up oxygen from solution in direct proportion to the activity of their growth and development, and give oft' carbon dioxide in corresponding (though not equal) amounts. The excess of oxygen intake over the discharge of carbon dioxide is to be attributed to other oxidative processes which occur in the course of their metabolism, as, for example, the formation of water. The anaerobic forms which cannot use free oxygen, and are indeed inhibited by its jiresence, obtain the oxygen which they require for their life jjrocesses from the decomposition ^^roducts of their food supply, and do not, therefore, exhibit respiration in the ordinary sense. iii. Heat production.—The oxidations and decompositions carried on by the liacterial jn-otoplasm result in the liberation of chemical energy, a great part of which is doubtless used in building up fresh protoplasm from the food materials, but part of it may appear in the form of heat. This is well seen in the case of ordinary putrefaction, in the smoking of dung-heaps and garden hotbeds, and in the heating of haystacks, which at times results in actual ignition. iv. Light production and phosphorescence.—Some bacteria (" photobacteria"), of which the majority belong to the marine flora, exhibit the phenomenon of light production, and are often the cause of the phosphorescence of the sea and of that of decaying animal and vegetable matter. They are only phosphorescent when alive and active, in the presence of oxygen, and under suitable temperature conditions. V. Metabolic products—The products of bacterial activity are very numerous and varied. Some are more or less simjile bodies of known chemical composition, and include gases, such as livdiogen, sulphuretted hydrogen, carbon dioxide, ammonia, and methane :