SUPPURATION By G. LENTHAL CHEATLE, C.B., F.R.C.S. Definition.— Suppuration is tlie term applied to that process in which an external excitant and living tissues act upon one another to cause death of tissue, emigration of leucocytes, and exudation of serum. When these things have occurred suppuration has taken place, and the fluid which collects in the centre of the lesion is called fus. It may be said at once that the external excitant is practically always a micro-organism, and that the process of suppuration is con- cerned in the attempt on the part of the host to secure for itself immunity, upon which its recovery ultimately depends. Clinical types.—Suppuration may be acute, subacute, or chronic. An acute suppuration develops within about seven days, or even less ; a chronic suppuration develops in one or more months ; while a subacute suppuration matures in the intermediate periods. These are terms of cHnical importance which indicate the degrees of intensity produced by the actions upon which depend the signs and symptoms of the disease ; but they have also a bacteriological import- ance, for chronic suppurative conditions are very commonly found to be associated with the presence of Bacillus tuberculosis, or with organisms of the streptothrix group (actinomyces, etc.). The finding of these organisms in the pus in association with their well-lmown pathological changes is the only proof of their causal nature, for it is well established that organisms of the staphylococcal group, B. coli, etc., may produce chronic as well as acute suppurative lesions. It is, therefore, essential that a bacteriological examination of the pus or tissue walls of the suppurating focus should be conducted in every case. Although the identification of the micro-organism must always be the feature of first importance in diagnosis and prognosis in a case of suppuration, the surgeon must be alert to observe the local and constitutional clinical changes, for these will help him to determine the probable resisting power of his patient, and to ordain treatment accordingly. i66