ODONTOMA -399 of an irregular tumour, composed of dentine and cementum, replacing or springing from the root of a tooth. As the crown of the tooth takes no part in the formation of a radicular odontoma, the tumour does not contain enamel. 7. Composite odontoma.—This name has been applied by Bland- Sutton to "those hard tooth-tumours which bear little or no resemblance in shajje to teeth, but occur in the jaws, and consist of a disordered conglomeration of enamel, dentine, and cementum." Such odontomas may be con- ,.•,, sidered as arising from an abnormal growth of all the elements of a tooth-germ— t-i ■ enamel-organ, papilla, and follicle. Com- posite odontomas occur in the maxilla and mandible, and when in the former situation may extend into the antrum. In some in- stances the tumour has separated sponta- neously, as in the case recorded by Hilton, who regarded the tumour of the upper jaw as an exostosis. In this extraordinary case the tumour, which weighed 14| ounces, had been gTowing for twenty-three years ; it extended into the orbit, and finally sepa- rated spontaneously after sloughing of the overlying tissues. The composite odontoma represented in Fig. 66 was removed by Christopher Heath from a young woman of 18. The tumour had caused expansion of the right half of the lower jaw with suppuration. A patch of apparently bare bone could be felt within the mouth, and it was at first doubtful whether the case was one of simple necrosis or of necrosis secondary to the growth of a tumour in the bone. Eventually the tumour was removed with an elevator without sacrificing any part of the jaw. This case illustrates the difficulty w-hich may occur in the clinical diagnosis of an odontoma, and the importance of distinguishing it from a tumour of the jaw so that an unnecessarily severe operation may be avoided. Before leaving this subject, it may be pointed out that of the above varieties of odontoma, the only ones which can be included in this gToup of tumours, if the structural basis of classification is adopted, are the cementomas, compound follicular odontomas, radicular odontomas, and composite odontomas; the remaining varieties are described elsewhere. Fig. <)(>. — Composite odontoma, in section. The tumour consists of a marble-like mass of dental tissues.