28 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY Natural immunity.—This may be either absolute or relative, and the resistance to infection which it implies may be either racial or only individual in character. That is to say, in some cases a particular species may possess immmiity against a given infection, while in other instances it is a question only of a greater or less susceptibility among tlie individual members of a susceptible race. Thus, dogs are found to be immune to anthrax, man to cattle plague, and fowls to tetanus. On the other hand, man is susceptible to scarlet fever, for example; yet a certain proportion of men do not take the disease, although they may be frequently exposed to the infection. These statements hold good not only for bacterial diseases and the effects of micro-organisms and their toxins, but also for a number of other poisons of animal or vegetable origin, as, for example, snake venoms, to which pigs and hedgehogs are by nature insusceptible. Acquired immunity.—Immimity may be acquired by sus- ceptible individuals either by the natural method of recovery from disease, or artificially as the result of inoculation with the specific micro-organisms themselves or with their products. Such immunity, resulting as it does from a definite reaction of the individual itself, is called " active " immunity, in order to distinguish it from the con- dition of " passive" immunity which may be temporarily induced by the introduction of protective substances obtained from actively immunized animals. The protective action exerted by the substances in question (e.g. blood-serum) has been shown to depend upon the presence in them of specific antibodies which have been produced within the actively immunized animal as the result of the reaction of its tissues to the specific causal agents of disease. Substances which possess this faculty of giving rise to the forma- tion of antibodies when injected into the body of a living animal are now usually spoken of as antigens, and include, besides bacteria and their specific products, a large number of other substances, such as blood corpuscles, animal and vegetable cells, proteins, toxins, and venoms of animal or vegetable origin, enzymes and ferments, and so on. Their accurate study has thrown a flood of light upon many of the problems of antibacterial immunity, and has led to the discovery of a number of important facts bearing on the nature and properties of antibodies in general. During the development of active immunity, besides the formation of antibodies under the influence of particular antigens, there is usually a remarkable increase in the number of leucocytes in the circulating blood, and also an increase in the phagocytic power of these leucocytes. The leucocytosis sometimes reaches a very high degree at certain stages of the reaction to infection, and leucocyte proliferation is by