SALVARSAN METHODS OF ADMINISTRATION Salvarsaii may be administered by injection into the muscles or subcutancons tissues, or intravenously. Intramuscular and subcutaneous administration. —Many diiferent ways of preparing salvarsau for subcutaneous or intramuscular injection liave been described, but space will onlv permit of our mentioning tlie more important of these. The highlv acid solution, made by dissolving the powder in distilled water, and the alkaline, by adding to the acid solution sufficient caustic soda solu- tion to redissolve the precipitate which forms at first, are not so generally used as the neutral or slightly alkaline emulsions prepared according to the method of Wechselmann and Lange, or that of Michaelis, because they are followed by considerably more pain than the latter, and there is no sufficient reason for believing them to be superior in efficacy. Wechselmann and Lange"s method is as follows : The contents of the capsule are dissolved by rubbing up with 1 or 2 c.c. of commercial caustic soda solution ; glacial acetic acid is then added, drojj bv drop, till a ffiie, yellow, sUmy jjrecipitate is formed ; to this is added 2 c.c. of sterile distilled water, and the emulsion is made neutral to litmus paper by adding either caustic soda (0-4 per cent.) or acetic acid (1 per cent.), according to its reaction. The golden yellow emulsion is then centrifugalized, and the deposit taken up with .5-6 c.c. of salt solution (0-9 per cent.). Michaelis first dissolves in distilled water, adds soda solution till a clear solution is formed, and precipitates out the emulsion with normal acetic acid. The emulsion is made slightly alkaline to litmus with soda solution, and distilled water added to about 40 c.c. Kromaj-er makes a suspension of the remedy by rubbing it up with Hquid paraffin (1 c.c. per O'l grm.), while Yolk makes a similar suspension in sterile olive oil or in liquid paraffin. Both claim that the injection is painless. The intramuscular injection maybe made into the glutei, under the trapezius, into the pectoralis major, or into the muscles between the scapula:^. Of these sites, that into the buttock has the disad- vantage that it causes discomfort both in sitting and in lying down, and is apt to be followed by neuritis of the sciatic nerve, with peroneal paralysis. We have found the injection into the pectoralis not so favourable, since necrosis aj^pears to be more frequent after it, and the injection under the trapezius would seem to be the most free from objection. In making an intramuscular injection the point of the needle must penetrate well into the muscle, and it is advisable before actually making the injection to disconnect the filled syringe