274 MILITARY SURGERY By G. G. spencer, R.A.M.G., F.R.G.S. Military surgery may be considered, for all practical purposes, as the surgery of gunshot wounds. In modern warfare injuries from " cold steel" form an insignificant proportion of the wounds met with, not more than 1 or 2 per cent., and this proportion is likely to be exceeded only in fighting against savage tribes who charge home with spear or sword. Sword cuts may be very extensive ; if from the cavalry sabre, they are much contused, and bones may be broken, or the skull fractured and depressed, whilst, with the razor-edged Indian or Afghan weapon, limbs may be severed, or the skull cleanly cleft. Punctured wounds from sword, lance, or bayonet thrusts are more serious ; the chest or abdomen may be penetrated, deeply placed vessels and nerves injured, and, as the wound is practically always septic, deep suppuration is very likely to follow. Penetrating wounds of the chest or abdomen from bayonets are more dangerous than those from rifle bullets, owing to their lacerated nature and to sepsis. Their treatment will be considered with that of gunshot wounds of those regions. In the treatment of incised and punctured wounds generally the chief point is to ensure good drainage, the wound being enlarged or counter-openings made if necessary ; in suturing an incised wound openings for drainage should be left. Divided nerves, tendons, and muscles must be repaired and bleeding vessels tied, and, as the wound is very likely to suppurate, catgut or other absorbable material should be used. About 80 to 90 per cent, of the wounds in recent wars have been due to rifle fire. The modern military rifle has a calibre of 6-5 to 8 mm. (0-2.'3(i to 0-315 in.), and its bullet consists of an outer envelope or mantle of hard metal filled with lead. The bullet leaves the muzzle at a velocity of from 2,000 to nearly 3,000 feet per second, it rotates very rapidly on its long axis, and its effective range is nearly a mile and a half. The latest form of bullet, known as the " S " bullet or Spitzgeschoss, has a very sharp point, is reduced