ACUTE SUPPURATION: CLINICAL FORMS 173 in aud cultivated from the liver, spleen and, sometimes, tlie heart and lungs. At the same time, the exact dose of the same culture of the micro-organism was inoculated into the same parts of a control animal which subsequently developed an acute suppuration at the seat of inoculation only, from which it recovered. These experiments show that the body of the host was able to deal summarily with the dissemi- nated micro-organisms, although an obvious effort was required to rid itself of the masses of them which were arrayed against it at the seat of inoculation, viz. where suppuration occurred. The reader will see from these experiments t wo things ;— 1. Although there is only local change obvious in suppuration, the patient has passed through the crisis of a general infection; even during the process of suppuration a host is protecting himself against generalized bacteria, a few of which-can be demonstrated in the blood, especially in the early stages, if a sufficient quantity (10 c.c.) be examined. Thus, in the early stages of pneumonia and typhoid fever the respective micro-organisms can be found without difficulty in tlie circulating blood. 2. The patient, by the time suppuration has occurred, has already run the risks of acute septicaemia or of pycemia, either of which might have occurred if the micro-organism had been possessed of greater virulence, or had been disseminated in larger dose, or if the host had been more susceptible. It follows, therefore, that the effects of an infection inevitably depend on the balance between the contending powers at the moment of inocu- lation—viz. (1) the micro-organism, and (2) the host. Although the later course of the infection may be influenced by subsequent changes in the micro-organism and in the host, the actual degrees in which the powers of attack and defence are present at the moment of inoculation are the foundation of all the subsequent changes. Clinical forms of acute suppuration.—An acute sup- puration is exhibited clinically in one of two forms, acute circum- scribed abscess and acute diffuse suppuration. The acute diffuse suppuration is the more serious of the two, and while it lasts the limb or even the life of the patient may be in jeopardy. The process is more intense than in the acute circumscribed form. Apart from this, the pathology of acute circumscribed abscess and of acute diffuse suppuration is practically identical, and microscopical sections made from the margins of these lesions exhibit such similar changes that it is not always possible to state which of the two is under observation. Hence, to avoid needless repetition, the pathology of these conditions will be described under the heading of acute circum- scribed abscess, and when differences arise more closely associated with acute diffuse suppuration they will be indicated.