SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 86 wedges projecting outwards from the central network and widening as they pass towards the periphery. The actinomyces is not motile, it has no flagella, and it does not form true spores. It stains readily with watery solutions of the ordinary basic aniline dyes. It is Gram-positive. But the clubs take the counterstain in sections from tissues, and are particularly well seen if eosin, acid fuchsin, or saffronin be used for the purpose. The organism is aerobic, and a facultative anaerobe. But some varieties described appear to be almost completely anaerobic. It is somewhat difficult to isolate in pure culture from diseased tissues. In bouillon it appears in the form of little granular balls of various sizes, with an irregular and prickly-looking outline. These fall to the bottom of the tube as a deposit, leaving the fluid clear. On the surface of agar it forms in about a week or ten days a series of more or less separate, roughly circular little masses of heaped-up growth, of a greyish-yellow colour, somewhat flaky on the surface, each colony frequently exhibiting a central dimple and the appear- ance of concentric rings of irregular and somewhat granulated growth. The mycelial threads penetrate beneath the surface of the medium, and the culture is therefore somewhat firmly adherent. The optimum temperature of the micro-organism is 35°-37° C, and its limits of growth are in some strains from 30° C. to about 42° C, but in other varieties growth occm-s as low as 15° C, or even lower. The clinical term actinomycosis probably includes a number of different but very similar infections, in which the causal agents may be either one or other of several different varieties of actinomyces, or may be one of the less familiar streptothricefe. The commonest variety of actinomyces in the human subject only grows in artificial culture above about 30° C, and shows a marked preference for anaerobic conditions (Israel and Wolf, J. H. Wright), while the Actinomyces hovis (Bostrom), for example, will grow on gelatin, which it slowly liquefies even at 15° C, and is distinctly an aerobic form, though it is also a facultative anaerobe. Some varieties of actinomyces carry on a saprophytic existence outside the body on the awns of barley and on other graminacese, and thus infect the mouths of animals which eat them. Infection may also be conveyed through wovmds and accidental scratches. In recent years different varieties of streptothrix have been isolated in pure culture from a considerable number of cases of clinical actino- mycosis both in man (Foulerton and Price-Jones, etc.) and in a number of the lower animals. They have been investigated more especiall}^ by Nocard, and the whole group may be spoken of as Nocardiacefe.