66o GENERAL ANESTHESIA may not be lost in opening the moutli. When a longer operation is required, as for enucleation of tonsils, a preliminary C.E. anaesthesia, followed by chloroform from Junker and tube, is best. For opera- tions not so long the wisest plan is a deep ether or C.E. anaesthesia, with no more anfesthetic after the operation has begun. When the operator requires the head and shoulders to be raised during opera- tion, if chloroform is used the anaesthesia must not be so deep as to abolish the corneal reflex. Moreover, whenever in these operations the head is kept to the middle line, either an active coughing reflex is to be retained or else blood frequently sponged out from the pharynx. Whenever the surgeon can operate with the patient turned on to one side, then a deep anaesthesia may be safely allowed, as there is no risk of inhalation of blood, which in this position will fall into the lower cheek. At the completion of the operation the patient should be turned completely over, face downwards, with the head hanging over the end of the table, so that blood may easily escape from the mouth and nose. Operations upon the inside of the nose are managed in the same way. The mouth should, from the first, always be kept open by a small prop or a Doyen's gag. Operations for cleft palate are best managed with chloroform throughout. A deep anaesthesia is necessary and must be very gradu- ally procured. In these cases, in which the infant is usually feeble, it is apt to be accompanied by pallor and gentle breathing. Care is required to keep the lower jaw from falling, the pulse is to be felt frequently, and extremely small quantities of chloroform given, the Junker pump being employed strictly with inspirations only, and never firmly compressed. Operations upon the eye are best performed under chloroform, as congestion is thus avoided. Enucleation, however, in which congestion is unimportant, should be done under full ether anaesthesia. Operations for squint also may well be done under ether, deep anaesthesia being secured before the commencement of the operation, after which no further anaesthetic is needed. Operations tvithin the skull are best done under chloroform, deep anaesthesia being necessary only while the scalp and the dura mater are being cut. Long operations upon the neck are often attended with interrup- tions to respiration. For this reason it is advisable to avoid unmixed chloroform and to employ C.E. or ether by the open method. The same rule applies to operations upon the thyroid gland, in which it is also of great importance to preserve a light anaesthesia as soon as the skin incision is past. Cases of exophthalmic goitre are among the most dangerous for general anaesthesia. Deep chloroform anaesthesia is to be avoided. Severe cellulitis of the neck supplies another group of dangerous cases in which C.E. or chloroform is the anaesthetic to