783 INTRAVENOUS INJECTION tissues underlying tlie liealtliy skin. It generally contains quite a large amount of arsenic, Major W. 0. Beveridge and Capt. N. D. Walker, R.A.M.C., having found an amount of tills equivalent to 0-075 grm. of salvarsan in a slough which separated four to five months after the injection. The process of separation is very slow, and may take six months or even longer. It is probable that after using the intra- muscular method a variable amount of necrosis occurs in the muscles at the site of injection, though it rarely gives cUnical evidence of its presence other than as a hard swelling. In most cases such a swelling is apt to remain for some weeks after the injection if the site is exposed to friction. Other effects which have been described, but of which we have no experience, are certain rashes which come on about the ninth day. These are generally morbilhform in cliaracter and accom- panied by rise of temperature to about 102*^ F. The intravenous method.—Method of preparation.— An alkaline solution is invariably prepared, and it is essential that it should be very dilute (certainly not stronger than 1 decigramme of the drug to 30 c.c. of fluid). We have foimd the following method, based on Schreiber's teclmique, most convenient : Into a graduated measure glass 100 c.c. of warm distilled water is poured, and 0'6 grm. ■of the remedy slowly sprinkled into it whilst stirring. When solution is complete, caustic soda (4 per cent.) is added, drop by drop, till the precipitate which forms at first is completely redissolved (as a rule about 0-7 c.c. of 4 per cent, soda per decigramme is required). No more alkali should be added than is just sufficient to give a clear solution. When quite clear, salt solution (0"85 per cent.), made with distilled water immediately before it is sterilized, is added to make the strength of the solution equivalent to 40 c.c. per decigramme of the remedy (or 240 c.c. for the contents of a 0-6 grm. capsule). When ready, the vessel containing the solution should stand in a basin of water at about blood heat till required. Preparation of the patient.—A saline purge on the same morn- ing, restriction of fluids, and a fast of four hours previously to an intravenous injection are useful in avoiding vomiting and intestinal disturbance afterwards. A very light diet is advisable, and rest in bed essential, for eighteen hours subsequently to the injection. The injection.—This may be made witli an ordinary infusion apparatus, or with a syringe. In either case certain precautions are necessary to ensure that the needle is actually in the vein before the salvarsan solution is introduced, because the presence of any salvarsan in the subcutaneous tissues would give rise to troublesome inflammatory swelling round the vein afterwards. In order to avoid this, some salt solution (0-85 per cent.) is first injected in order to see whether any swelling results. Should this occur it indicates that the point