SYMPTOMS OF CONGENITAL SYPHILIS 797 Hydrocephalus occurs in congenital syphilis, but is not common. It is usually due to a lepto- and pachymeningitis. Osteo-chondritis syphilitica is an earl)^ manifestation, while the other bone changes usually occur much later. The bone changes above described are for the greater part also met with in rickets. So closely do rickets and congenital syphilis simulate one another that formerly they were generally believed to be one and the same disease—an ojiinion held until it was proved that rickety children could acquire syphilis. There is no doubt that congenital syphilis predisposes to rickets, and, although the two diseases are quite distinct, some of the lesions produced by both are indistinguishable during life. As a result of osteo-chondritis, hydrarthrosis may supervene. Occasionally a joint becomes filled with pus ; when this occurs the condition is almost invariably symmetrically bilateral (Baumler, Glutton). Muscular system.—Muscles may be tlie seat of gummata, but a syphilitic myositis is usually secondary to a periostitis. Vascular system.-—The heart is rarely affected. Both diffuse myocarditis secondary to an endophlebitis and periphlebitis or arteritis of the small vessels, and gummata in the heart muscle, have been described. The gummata are small, multiple, and to the naked eye appear as white spots. Changes in the small vessels are all-important, since there is no syphilitic manifestation which is not primarily dependent on such changes. In no way do they differ from those occurring in the acquired form, namely, round-celled infiltration of the media and adventitia, endarteritis obliterans, etc. Mucous membranes.—Catarrh of the mucous membrane of the nose, causing coryza, the so-called snuffles," is a very frequent manifestation. It may be the first sign, and it is a persistent one. Ulceration and involvement of the underlying periosteum and bone not infrequently occur, causing falling-in of the bridge of the nose, and thus producing the so-called " saddle nose." Papules, erosions, and ulcers may also affect the mucous mem- branes of the lips, cheeks, and tongue, but, with the exception of ulceration of the hard palate and jaw-bones, are more common in acquired than in congenital syphilis. Lungs.—One or both lungs, either as a whole or in part, may show the characteristic white pneumonia of Virchow. An affected lung is large and has impressions of the ribs on its surface; on section it is white or greyish. The chief changes are a growth and desquamation of the alveolar epithelium, with considerable cellular infiltration and hyperplasia of connective tissue. This is the