SPINAL DISEASE 643 knowledge of the situation of the injury is possible. Plate 64, Fig. 1, is the radiogram of a case of fracture and dislocation of the fourth cervical vertebra. The fracture of the lamina is readily discerned, and the amount of dislocation is visible. Tuberculous disease.—As in other bones, tuberculous disease affecting the vertebrae may be demonstrated by the X-rays. The affected bone presents irregularity of outline, and circumscribed areas of increased translucency replace the normal shadow of the vertebrae to a greater or less extent, according to the amount of caries present. An example of tuberculous disease of the atlas is to be seen in Plate 64, Fig. 2, where, in the position indicated, the characteristic changes produced by this disease are well exemplified. Again, Fig. 3 is the radiogram of a case of dorsal caries in which the disease is located in the adjoining surfaces of the bodies of the ninth and tenth vertebrae. In the latter, irregularity of outline and structure of the affected bodies is quite discernible, and, in addition, there is seen a fusiform opaque area to the right and left of the spinal column, extending for some distance above and below the affected vertebraj, this area represent- ing an abscess in connexion with the caries. In the lumbar region the presence of tuberculous disease may produce such an appearance as is shown in Plate 65, Fig. 1, which is a case of caries of the fifth lumbar vertebra. Here we have a view of a perfectly symmetrical area of increased opacity, its shape being that of the articular surface of the bod)' of the vertebra with the convexity directed towards the ccccvx. Spondylitis deformans, rheumatic spondylitis.—This disease, when it has been in existence for some time, produces changes in the outline of the vertebras which may be recognized by X-ray examination. Osteophytic outgrowths may be seen springing from the intervertebral margins of the bodies of the vertebrae, and in advanced cases these may completely bridge over the intervertebral spaces. An example of this disease affecting the lumbar vertebrae is to be seen in Plate 65, Fig. 2, complete fusion of the vertebral bodies having taken place, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BONES OF THE SKULL Little has been done in the way of making use of the X-rays in investigating diseases and injuries of the bones and contents of the skull, yet, as already mentioned, it is possible to demonstrate clearly the sutures existing between the several bones ; and an excellent de- monstration of the base of the skull, showing the outline of such a structure as the sella turcica, is not at all difficult. Plate 65, Fig. 3, is a