572 TUMOURS tumour of the breast is a carcinoma or a sarcoma, the surgeon will be wise to perform the complete operation, even though a somewhat less extensive procedure would be justified if the tumour were known to be a sarcoma. The soft form of carcinoma of the breast sometimes, especially in J'oung women, assumes a diffuse and particularly malignant form, which, on account of its resemblance to an inflammatory affection of the gland, has been known as " brawny cancer " or " carcinomatous mastitis." The whole breast is enlarged, tender and hot, and the overlying sldn reddened and oedematous, or it presents the peculiar " peau d'orange " appearance. In a case of this kind which came under our notice the patient was only 22 years of age, and the disease had only been noticed for a few weeks. In the belief that the enlargement of the breast was due to an abscess, an incision had been made into it. The breast was removed, but recurrence rapidly followed and proved fatal. Some of the most malignant examples of this form of cancer are met with during pregnancy and lactation, the disease either arising during these periods, or a slowly growing tumour, already present, assuming the characters of the more malignant type. Marmaduke Sheild has collected numerous cases of this nature, one of the most striking being that recorded by Billroth, in which the disease developed in both breasi s five weeks before parturition, death occurring a week afterwards with universally distributed secondary deposits. The malignancy of this form of 'cancer was strildngly illustrated by a case under the care of Rose Bradford in University College Hospital: The woman, aged 39, was admitted during lactation on account of cough and slight fever. There was slight impairment of resonance, with scattered rales, at the bases of both lungs. As the breasts diminished in size with the cessation of lactation it was noticed that the left remained larger and harder than the right. Rapid emaciation occurred, and the patient died eighteen days after her admission into the hospital. The left breast was the seat of a diffuse carcinoma, and there were secondary deposits in the lungs and liver and in the axillary, mediastinal, and abdominal lymphatic glands. Colloid carcinoma occurs in the breast as a modification of the ordinary undifferentiated form, but is not common (Fig. 158). The colloid change may affect only part of the tumour without modifying its clinical features, and is only detected in a section of the growth by the presence of areas presenting a fine reticulum, the meshes of which are filled with yellowish jelly-like substance. When, however, the colloid change is more marked, the tumour, which is sometimes of slow growth, is usually rounded or lobulated, and moderately soft in consist- ence. It shows little tendency to contraction, and in exceptional