HEMORRHAGE : SYMPTOMS 307 SYMPTOMATOLOGY The symptoms of hfemorrliage naturally fall into two groups— general and local. The general symptoms are the same for all varie- ties of hsemorrhage, and depend upon the amount of blood lost, while the local symptoms depend upon wliether the bleeding is arterial, venous, or capillary, external or concealed, primary or secondary ; and the treatment locally varies with local conditions. General symptoms of haemorrhage.—As the hamor- rhage proceeds, the patient Ijecomes increasingly paler, the pallor being most easily determined by the colour of the mucous membranes and conjunctivse. The body is usually covered with sweat; the patient becomes more and more restless, throwing the arms about and moving in bed ; complaints are made of thirst; the pulse-rate is raised steadily, and the tension of the pulse falls, but not the volume. Respiration becomes deejier and cjuicker, and finally is sighing (air-hunger) ; the temperature tends to fall below normal, and the extremities become cold. Vomiting is common, and the patient has attacks of syncope, during which he loses consciousness ; the pupils become dilated, and dimness of vision or sudden loss of sight (amaurosis) occurs ; and there is a singing or buzzing in the ears. Finally, the musculature is relaxed, the heart fails, Cheyne-Stokes respiration and unconscious- ness supervene, and death follows. Local symptoms. Primary arterial haemorrhage.—In the case of a severed artery the blood is bright red in colour, is rapidly lost, and spurts out of the vessel with considerable force in a series of jerks corresponding to the beats of the heart; the rate of loss is such that if a large artery—e.g. the common carotid—is severed, death will ensue in less than two minutes. An apparent exception to the intermittent flow of arterial hfemorrhage is seen when an artery is cut at the bottom of a deep, narrow woimd. In this case the blood, although arterial, may flow evenly away from the mouth of the lesion, the intermittence being lost in the depth of the wound. The chief flow takes place from the proximal (heart) end of the divided artery, but in vessels with a free anastomosis hfemorrhage from the distal end is often severe and deserving of consideration in treatment ; it accounts for some cases of intermediate lux'morrhage, the collateral circulation on being established causing bleeding from the unsecured distal end of an artery. Primary venous haemorrhage.-—In venous haemorrhage the blood escapes comj^aratively slowly from the vessels, owing to the low blood-pressure ; but the volume, if a large vein such as the internal jugular be severed, may be considerable. Tlie blood, as a rule, flows evenly and smoothly from the woimd and is dark in colour ; in venous