298 BURNS AND SCALDS Brandy is probably the most useful stimulant in these cases, and should be given freely. It is seldom possible, in the cases which need it most, to give saline either intravenously or subcutaneously ; but in young children, who often do not retain it well when given per rectum, an effort should be made to find an unburnt and suitable area and to inject the saline into the cellular tissues beneath the skin. It is a most beneficial procedure. If a few drops of adrenalin chloride (1-1,000) be added to the intravenous saline, it produces a very marked effect in raising the blood pressure, but unfortunately this is only of a fleet- ing character. It may be added to the saline when this is given by the rectum. I have been unable to observe any good effect follow the use of the commercial preparations of pituitary extract, even when given intravenously. Such cardiac stimulants as digitalin, strophanthin, and strychnine have been recommended, but they are not of much service. In fact, they are of as little use here as in the treatment of shock produced in other ways. When fluids can be taken by tlie mouth, oft-repeated small drinks of warm water should be given ; after a few hours, milk may be added to the water. One of the most difficult questions to decide is the propriety of administering morphia. Adults suffering from severe burns bear it well, but with children the greatest caution must be exercised. In cases which are obviously fatal from the first it is permissible to give an opiate to afford some degree of relief to suffering ; but in other cases, in which the patients are not so extensively burnt, or in which the prognosis is doubtful, morphia should most certainly be withheld if possible. Local.—The condition of a burnt part is one in every way favour- able to the development of sepsis. The surgeon's endeavours should therefore be directed towards preventing the growth of septic organisms and securing as aseptic a condition of the skin as is possible. It is important that the strictest antiseptic measures should be carried out without loss of time. The burnt parts should be carefully washed with some antiseptic lotion of a mild character, such as boric acid. If stronger antiseptics, such as carbolic acid or corrosive sub- limate, be employed, the parts should afterwards be well washed in normal saline solution. To carry out this preliminary cleansing satis- factorily, it is often necessary to give a general ansesthetic. All blisters must be snipped away, since their contents are found to be invariably infected with micro-organisms, and, unless they are laid open, antiseptic cannot gain proper access to the interior. The most satisfactory solu- tion to employ as a primary dressing is one containing picric acid. The formula usually given is—Picric acid 1J drachms, absolute alcohol 3 ounces, distilled water 40 ounces. Gauze or lint should be lightly