ii. Spore-formation.—When the conditions are unfavourable REPRODUCTION OF BACTERIA / may be distributed all round the organism (peritrichate), and may be numerous, long and wavy as in the case of B. ti/phosus, or com- paratively few and short as in B. coU. iv. Pigment.—Many bacterial cultures are highly pigmented, and different varieties exhibit red, orange, yellow, green, blue, or violet coloration. The pigment, though in some cases it is fomid within the bodies of the bacteria, is usually present as an excrete product between the bacterial cells, or diffused out into the surrounding medium. The subject is more fully dealt with under the heading of Bacterial Products in general. 5. REPRODUCTIOX The bacterial cell propagates itself by direct division into two new individuals, and in some cases also by the method of spore- formation. i. Direct division.—Among the rods increase in length occurs until the organism has grown to nearly double its original size, the transverse measurement meanwhile remaining unchanged. Fission then takes palace by the ajjpearance of a dividing membrane which arises from the envelope around the middle of the rod, and grows inwards to com^^lete a transverse septum, thus converting the single organism into two new ones. After the division is complete the young organisms, which may not yet have reached their full deve- lopment, continue their growth. In this way nudtiplication proceeds rapidly, and the new organisms may separate to a greater or less extent in accordance with the particular habit of the type concerned. {See pp. -1 and 5.) In the cocci the events are somewhat different. There is usually either no growth, or only a slight increase in all diameters, before the dividing membrane appears which separates the single organism into two. The division is followed by increase in size, and by a restoration of the typical form of the organism concerned. The rate of reproduction of the bacteria varies within wide limits, and is dependent both on the particular variety concerned and on the conditions under which it is placed. In favourable circumstances multiplication is extremely rapid, and may take place as often as once in every twenty or thirty minutes. If this rate were kept up con- tinuously a single organism would give rise to a colony of about 30.r)00,000,000,000 (thirty billions) in" the course of 48 houi's. But such rapid growth only occurs when all the conditions are peculiarly favourable, and in cultures grown imder ordinary limitations the rate of midtiplying speedilv decrease? as the organisms become numerous and crowded.