453 PAPILLOMA Intracystic papilloma.—Especially in the breast and ovary, it is common to lincl papillomatous growths springing from the inner surface of cysts. In the breast, such intracystic papillomas may be single or multiple. The isolated form is usually found in a cyst formed by dilatation of one of the large ducts—duct papillotna. The tumour may have a delicate villous structiire, being composed of branching vascular papilla^, and may partially or completely fill the cyst in which it grows. Tn the latter case the closely packed ^^I'ocesses of the tumour may so completely fill and distend the cyst that the cyst wall assumes the appearance of a thin, fibrous capsule surrounding the tumour. It frequently happens that the cyst still retains its communica- tion with the duct from which it originated, and thus a discharge, often blood-stained, occurs from the nipple, just as in a vascular papilloma of the bladder or rectum haemorrhage is a prominent symptom. It is very important to recognize the essential difference between a simple duct papilloma and that form of columnar carcinoma which originates in the ducts and may assume a villous form (p. 575). In the latter tumour intracystic papillomatous growths may be present, but a careful histological examination will reveal the important fact that the epithelial growth is not confined to the interior of a cyst, but extends also into the tissues outside and beyond the cyst wall. Although the villous form of columnar-celled carcinoma of the breast is probably of comparatively low malignancj^, it is very likely that this feature has been exaggerated by the inclusion amongst the villous cancers of certain papillomas of a benign nature. In addition to the duct papilloma, which presents itself as an isolated tumour of the mamma, multiple intracystic papillary growths are sometimes met with in connexion with the cystic degeneration which may affect one or both breasts. In this disease a part or the whole of the gland is transformed into a number of cysts varpng in size, and often containing papillary ingrowths similar in character to the single form above described. In the ovary, intracystic papillomas are common in one variety of multilocular cyst, and have already been mentioned in speaking of that disease (p. 443). In many respects they closely resemble the intracystic papillomas of the breast, and it is a matter of great practical importance that in some cases an ovarian tumour, indis- tinguishable from a simple papillomatous ovarian cyst, may pursue a malignant course, recurring locally after removal, and ultimately proving fatal. Papillomas also occur in parovarian cysts. Occasionally masses of papillomatous growth occur on the surface of the ovary indepeu-