277 TREATMENT OF WOUNDS IN WAR shock the resistance of the tissues to infection appears to be diminished. Most buhet wounds may be regarded as primarily aseptic, and the great object of treatment is to prevent infection ; if the external wounds are small, as in flesh wounds, this usually presents little difficulty. The wounds most liable to become septic are those witlv large skin apertures and much laceration of the tissues, as in a fracture with much comminution and a large exit wound. A wound may be infected from the bullet having passed through or opened up some portion of the alimentary canal. General infective diseases are rare, though erysipelas and tetanus are occasionally met with, liut pyaemia and hospital gangrene are fortunately extinct. The treatment of wounds in war is carried out under peculiar difficulties. Large numbers of wounded are suddenly thrown upon the hands of the medical staff, and these must be collected, treated, and removed from the scene of active operations as rapidly as possible. To free the fighting troops from the encumbrance of sick and wounded men is quite as important as to succour the wounded themselves. The end and aim of war is to defeat the enemy, and. to attain this, not only must a general be jjrepared to lose men. but a surgeon may be compelled, however unwillingly, to subordinate the interests of the wounded to military exigencies, and must do the best he can in the circumstances. On the battle-field only first aid can be given, and it must often be some time before a wounded man receives any treatment at all. The first field dressing must be applied, care being taken not to con- taminate the wound in removing the clothing, and not to attempt to wipe away blood, which would mean rubbing in dirt from the skin. The first field dressing is a small packet containing an antiseptic pad and bandage, protected by a waterproof covering. Every soldier carries one on service. A tourniquet for the arrest of lia-morrhage is very seldom required. The wounded part must be immobilized, particularly if there is a fracture. In all but the slighter injuries morphine is needed, and as soon as possible hot fluid food should be given. It is assumed, of course, that the administration of either of these is not contra-indicated by tlie nature of the wound. In the Field Ambulance, which is a mobile hospital that accom- panies the troops and affords a temporary resting-place for the wounded on their Avay to the base, many of the slighter wounds need no further attention ; the first dressing may be left undisturbed. More severe injuries require re-dressing, the skin round each wound being washed, shaved if necessary, and a dressing applied large enough to last during the patient's journe}" to the liase. This must be so fixed that it will not shift. The Avounds must be protected from any strong