628 X-RAY EXAMINATION recognized, such as pliotograpliic stains, etc. ; but with experience it is quite possible to avoid most of these and to appreciate the value of X-ray evidence. Thus, in Plate 39, Fig. 4, and Plate 40, Figs. 1 and 2, the opacities in the renal region in the positions indicated afford such strong evidence of the presence of calculus that the diagnosis may be safely made, even in the absence of clinical support. It must, however, be allowed that at times X-ray examination may appear to render cases even more obscure and difficult. For instance, a healthy young woman had a sudden attack of severe pain in the right loin extending to the groin and vulva, accompanied by a strong and even imperative desire to micturate. Right hsematuria was observed to last a few d&js ; and a second attack similar to the first came on about three months later. On examination, the right Iddney was just palpable on deep inspiration ; the left could not be felt. Cysto- scopically the bladder was found to be healthy; the ureteral orifices were normal, with a clear, rapid efflux on either side. The urine con- tained a little albumin and a few hyaline casts, but no blood. X-ray examination (Plate 40, Fig. 3) showed two distinct opacities—one on the left, the other on the right side—suggesting a calculus impacted in the lower part of each ureter in the positions indicated. It is most important, in examining the renal region, that both sides should be dealt with at the same time, irrespectively of clinical indica- tions. Such cases as the following emphasize this caution. In the first the symptoms of renal calculus were complained of on the right side only, yet in the radiogram of this case (Plate 40, Fig. 4) an opacity is seen strongly suggesting a calculus in the pelvis of the left kidney. The second case is one in which severe pain was complained of in the right groin, and yet in the radiogram (Plate 41, Fig. 1) an opacity is plainly discerned near the lower end of the left ureter. Subse- quently to this discovery, pain was comj^lained of on the left side, and eventually a small calculus was passed per urethram. In a third case the exjjlanation of the j)resence of pus in the urine was sought for by X-ray examination after other methods of diagnosis had failed. In Fig. 2 there is ample evidence in both kidneys of the cause of the pyuria. Had only one side been examined, sufficient evi- dence would have been procured to warrant operative interference—a measure which is contra-indicated by the condition of the other kidney. By X-ray examination it is possible to secure further information than that of the jjresence of a calculus in the kidney, ureter, or bladder. Cases with the clinical symptoms of renal calculus ma,y, in X-ray examination, show no apparent calculus, but may be found to pre- sent evidence of enlargement of the kidney outline, not detected by palpation. Therefore the X-ray appearances may suggest renal