DIABETIC GANGRENE 235 of infection by instruments or attendants. Nourisliiug food and stimulants should be freely administered. Local treatment consists in removing the sloughs and either searing the affected area with a cautery, or destroying it with an escharotic. In former days Ricord's paste, a mixture of sulphuric acid and charcoal, was a favourite application. In the event of an extremity being attacked, whenever feasible early amputation well above the disease is urgently called for. VI. C4ANGRENE DUE TO DIABETES Diabetic gangrene is in reality a form of senile gangrene exhibit- ing certain differences that depend on the presence of glucose in the blood. Thus, it spreads with greater rapidity, is associated with more surrounding inflammation, has less tendency to self-limitation, and, though often dry to commence with, generally becomes moist in consequence of the inflammatory changes. Like its j^rototyi^e, it frequently occirrs in old people, commences in the toes, remains limited to the foot or spreads up the leg, and is often started by a slight injury. The most important factor in its production is the narrowing of the vessels from degenerative and proliferative processes, occurring either as a purely senile change coincident with diabetes, or as a result of the circulation of sugar. Convincing proof of the etiological imjjortance of arterial changes is afforded by the freedom from gangrene experi- enced by young diabetics, and also by the fact that, in an analysis of twenty-six cases of diabetic gangrene admitted to St. Thomas's Hospital, Cuthbert Wallace noted that twenty-four had arterio- sclerosis, twenty-two were males, and the average age was 60. Predisposing causes may be the lowered vitality of the tissues in diabetics (thereby rendering them less able to resist injiiry), the favourable medium that such tissues furnish for the development of pyogenetic organisms, and the occasional defective innervation of the part. Symptoms.—Diabetic gangrene may be divided into aseptic and septic varieties. The former is dry, non-inflammatory, of rare occur- rence, and apart from the co-existing symptoms of diabetes, does not differ from senile gangrene. The latter and usual t}^e is inflammatory, moist, and septic ; it is characterized by its rapid spread, by the excessive inflammation associated with it, and often by extensive sloughing of the skin. Frequently following an attack of acute pain, the toes or foot become swollen and cedematous, and dusky red from passive hypera?mia. After remaining in this condition for a couple of days the swelling subsides, the tissues begin to shrivel, and a black gangrenous patch appears on the toe or foot. This may remain localized, in which case a zone of active hypera^mia develops in the living part