92 APPLIED BACTERIOLOGY since similar symptoms have been noted following the injection of normal horse serum. These symptoms consist of cutaneous eruptions, the most common of which is simple localized erythema, and joint pains, which are often accompanied by swelling of the joint, erythema of the skin covering it, and a certain amount of pyrexia. These symptoms usually appear from five to eight days after an injection. They are not invariably present, but depend to a certain extent upon idiosyncrasy, and still more upon the character of the serum that is employed, the serum of some horses being much more toxic for the human subject than that of others. These symptoms also bear a distinct relationship to the quantity of serum injected, a small quantity of serum with a very high antitoxic content being much less likely to be followed by such sequelae than a larger volume of serum containing the same number of units of antitoxin. Method of administration of bacterial remedies.— If we wish to obtain rapidly and with certainty the specific action of practically any drug that is capable of being suspended in a fluid menstruum, we introduce it beneatli the surface of the skin by means of a syringe and needle ; and this is the procedure that should be adopted with all bacterial remedies. Oral and rectal administration of serums and vaccines has been advocated from time to time, but the clinician is now as opposed to these methods as the bacteriologist has always been. Serums should be injected subcutaneously, intra- venously, or intraspinally, according to the severity or other circumstances of the individual case. Vaccines should be injected subcutaneously. The syringe.—The serum syringe should be of a capacity of not less than 10 c.c, and should be of the all-glass variety, as this can be readily and effectually sterilized (Fig. 2). The needle should be somewhat longer than tliat of a common hypodermic syringe ; 5 or 6 cm. is an adequate length. The bore of the needle need not be large, as the serum is perfectly fluid, and will pass readily through any hollow needle, and it is an advantage rather than otherwise to give the injection slowly. The component parts of the s}Tinge—the barrel, piston, nozzle, and needle—should be separated and boiled just before use, to ensure sterility. After fitting up, the syringe must be allowed to cool some- what before the serum is drawn into it, to avoid any coagTilation of the albumin. Immediately after use the syringe and needle should be washed through with cold water before again being sterilized. The vaccine syringe should also be " all glass," of 1 c.c. capacity, graduated in tenths of a cubic centimetre, and provided with a fine needle. It should be sterilized for use in the same way as the serum syringe.