284 MILITARY SURGERY of a bullet in the cranium is not likely to occur unless its energy is nearly expended. The symptoms of gunshot wounds of the brain are usually those of intense concussion, combined with a varying degree of cerebral irritation. Compression is seldom present, and pressure from intra- cranial haemorrhage is uncommon, as the bullet wounds allow blood to escape. Occasionally there may be very slight symptoms, especially in wounds of the frontal lobes. S3^mptoms due to injury of the various cortical centres are very often present. Septic meningitis is a very fatal, though not very common complication. Cerebral abscesses may occur as the result of infection of the bullet track, or at a later period from the irritation of fragments of bone lodged in the brain. Hernia cerebri is sometimes seen in septic wounds. Late sequelae, such as traumatic epilepsy, persistent headache, tenderness of the scar, and the permanent effects of brain injury, such as mental defects, paralyses, and impairment of sight and hearing, cause serious disability in many cases. Besides the usual treatment of any head injury, and attention to the external wounds, operation is necessary in every gunshot fracture of the cranium, with the object of removing all fragments of bone from the brain. Bullet fractures are punctured fractures, and with apparently slight external injury there may be much splintering of the inner table. After turning down a flap and enlarging the biillet hole Avith gouge forceps, careful search for pieces of bone should be made with the finger. The dura mater should be sutured, unless the wound is septic, when it must be left open for drainage. It is seldom advisable to replace any portions of bone. A bullet lodged in the skull can be found and removed only in rare cases, when it is in an easily accessible position. Cerebral abscesses require drainage as soon as they can be diagnosed. As they are always in or near the bullet track there is no difficulty in finding them. Wounds of the orbit are accompanied by a good deal of haemor- rhage, and in many cases the eye is destroyed. Suppuration is common, and the injured eye must usually be removed to allow of drainage. If the bullet has entered the brain through the roof of the orbit the removal of fragments by exploration is necessary. Wounds of the mastoid region frequently cause deafness from concussion of the internal ear, and facial paralysis from damage to the nerve in the aqueduct of Fallopius. Fractures of the jaws are fairly common injuries. There is little difficulty in keeping them in position, but loose fragments must be removed and the cleanliness of the mouth carefully attended to. Wounds of the spine are among the most fatal of gunshot injuries. They are frequently complicated by penetration of the chest