154 REPAIR analogous to the repair of epithelium in any other situation. In from twenty-four to forty-eight hours the new epithelium may have formed a complete covering. If the wound is deeper and involves the fibrous-tissue lamellfe, marked proliferative changes are seen in the corneal corpuscles. These act as fibroblasts and send their processes into the lymph which has temporarily glued the surfaces together. The cells are arranged parallel with the lamellae ; and by them, without the intervention of vascular proliferation, the union of the surfaces is brought about. The anterior epithelial layer also proliferates, and usually overlaps the edges of the wound for a certain distance, forming a kind of plug in its upper part. In some cases the polymorphonuclear cells may ha*ve wandered to the site of injury, and may be found in the lymph or between the epithelial cells or the corneal corpuscles. If the wound has reached the anterior chamber, the inner layer of epithelium also proliferatss, and in three or four days the wound is filled with a mass of connective tissue, derived from the proliferated corneal corpuscles, and covered on each side by several layers of epithelium. In from six to eight days the superficial epithelium and Descemet's membrane are completely restored, and the new connective tissue has become more definitely fibrous, whilst in ten days to a fort- night the connective-tissue fibrillse are well formed, and an opaque scar is the only sign of the original wound. If the wound becomes infected, more extensive reparative changes are seen ; leucocyte emi- gration from the conjunctival or episcleral vessels is a marked feature, and in the healing process new vessels grow in from the sclerotic and pass right up to the corneal wound. Granulation tissue similar to that which occurs constantly in vascular tissues is formed; purulent exudate may appear in the anterior chamber; and the iris frequently becomes adherent to the corneal surface, or it may even become entangled in the wound. Fibrous-tissue union is eventually formed, and the scar produced may be large and very opaque. 2. Repair of cartilage.—Wounds in cartilage usually heal very slowly and very imperfectly. A clean-cut, incised wound which is aseptic may heal by direct union of the opposing surfaces of the cartilage without manifesting any of the usual reactive phenomena of inflammation. Union, however, of large wounds is always by connective tissue, this being derived by proliferation from the perichondrium. Even this method of union may take several weeks or months before it is complete. Small islets of cartilage are sometimes found in this con- nective tissue, and there seems little doubt that the fibrous tissue formed in the healing process may become transformed into cartilage, though this metaplasia is generally very incomplete.