8oo CONGENITAL SYPHILIS interesting case of metrorrhagia neonatorum, which was caused by an endarteritis obliterans of the vessels in the fundus uteri. Spleen.—Enlargement of the spleen is common in cases of congenital s^^philis, and is most obvious when the child is H or 2 years old. It is difficult in many of these cases to decide whether syphiUs or rickets is the proximate cause of the enlargement. Parrot recognized two forms of enlargement—one resulting from a chronic hypersemia due to stasis in the portal circulation ; the other due to a true hyperplasia of the connective tissue in the gland and in the capsule. Still reported two cases of gummata of the spleen, but the condition is extremely rare. Thymus.—This gland is here mentioned, since an affection of it has been described as being diagnostic of congenital syphilis, namely, Dubois' abscesses. These are single or multiple abscesses found in the gland substance. There is very little evidence that they are definitely syphilitic. Central nervous system.—Gummata have been described as the cause of epileptic fits in young children. Syphilitic meningitis is not uncommon. Idiocy affecting several members of the same family is by some writers regarded as a sequence of syphilis, though there may be no definite syphilitic lesion observable. A child may be of normal intelligence for several years and then gradually become mentally deficient. It may suffer from convulsions and headaches ; its pupils may become unequal, and its knee-jerks exaggerated ; paralyses may set in, and the child ultimately dies— juvenile general paralysis. As a rule, the course extends over three or four years, but acute cases are on record. A thickening of the meninges is usually all that is found on pathological examination. Tabes dorsalis has also been observed in early adult Hfe, some- times associated with general paralysis. Spastic palsies of children are in some cases due to congenital syphilis. Eyes.—Affections of the eyes are extremely common. Changes in the fundus oculi, choroiditis, and iritis may occur soon after birth or be strictly congenital. The patches in the choroid are usually irre- gular in shape and white in colour, with dark, pigmented borders, and are generally associated with vitreous opacities. Choroiditis may interfere with vision, nystagmus being the first sign which calls attention to the defect. Hutchinson says that iritis most frequently affects females, is most commonly seen at the age of 5 months, and is often bilateral; that it is not characterized by the inflammatory phenomena which are met with in adult iritis ; and that it quicklj' leads to occlusion of the pupil, but is extremely amenable to mercurial treatment.