239 BRUISES against any blunt object, and constantly involves multiple lesions of the blood-vessels ; nerve and other tissue elements are torn and damaged to a greater or less extent, but the chief injuries are to lie seen in tlie smaller blood-vessels, which are ruptured and permit the extravasation of blood and serum into the tissues immediately sur- rounding them. The part becomes swollen, tender, sometimes painful, especially on movement, and in process of time shows a play of colours due to staining with blood-pigments and their subsequent oxidation. Thus within a few hours the colour becomes dusky red, and passes thence through the stages of purple, bluish-black, brown, green, and yellow. The time required for return to normal colour, in a case that remains aseptic, varies with the size of the bruise, the degree of violence that caused it, the reactive powers of the tissues, and tlie treatment adopted. It is, therefore, impossible to make dogmatic statements as to the age of a bruise from its appearance. In severe cases, blebs may be formed on the surface, which may contain clear serum or blood-stained fluid, or extensive necrosis may result, with the separation of sloughs. The degree of bruising from an injury of given violence varies both with the part and with the individual affected. Thus, while in a part in which the vessels are badly supported in a loose con- nective-tissue stroma, as in the eyelid, a slight blow may cause considerable extravasation, in another with a dense structure, such as the scalp, very severe trauma may show but little sign. Also, individuals of flabby, atonic habit and fair complexion will bruise on the slightest provocation. An important fact is that the skin dis- coloration may be guided to a distance from the site of injury, partly by the arrangement of the fascial planes and partly by gravity. Thus, in injury of tlie scalp the bruising may appear in the eyelids, although these have not themselves been subjected to direct violence ; or extravasation due to trauma in the u^iper part of the leg may show itself as a discoloration round the ankle. In a healthy patient the part usually soon returns to the normal, l>ut in the unhealthy sup- puration may ensue. Bruises of internal organs will be dealt with in the articles on the organs affected. When the trauma causes the rupture of larger vessels, especially veins, or in cases in which the leakage is prolonged for any reason, instead of the dift'used luemorrhagic infiltration seen in an ordinary bruise, there may result a definite tumour, separating the tissues and consisting of a circumscribed collection of blood, which later may coagulate partially or completely. Such a blood tumour is known as a haematoma. In those cases in which partial clotting occurs the