913 ELEPHANTIASIS When the penis alone is affected, the disease shows itself first in the prepuce, which becomes swollen and softened, and forms a horn- like projection, or a swollen collar all round the glans penis. In time the skin of the body of the penis becomes affected also, and a very characteristic appearance is produced. The body of the penis itself, including the glans, is not affected, and in all cases it can be dissected out quite intact from the infiltrated skin around it, even when it lies in the midst of an enormous scrotal swelling. On section it will be seen that the skin layer, with all its contents, is enormously hypertropliied, and that the rest of the section consists of a mass of blubbery, fatty areolar and loose connective tissue con- taining many large blood-vessels. The penis, cords, and testicles are all embedded in tliis milky-wliite tissue, wliich can be entirely stripped from them by careful separation in the line of cleavage. The spermatic cords are enormously lengthened and a deposit of fatty tissue runs up between the vessels in advanced cases, though, usually, there is a definite fibrous sheath enclosing the structures of the cord, wliich are not infiltrated generally though they are much thickened. The vessels are greatly increased in size and lengthened. The testicles are soft, sometimes much atrophied, but in most cases quite healthy, and are often surrounded by large, thick-walled vaginal hydroceles containing clear fluid, not lymph or chyle. Treatment.—These swellings, however large, are not dangerous, but become very inconvenient from their great Aveight and the dragging on adjacent tissues. Complete amputation affords the only hope of cure, and should be carried out when the patient's general condition permits. When the penis alone is affected, all the soft elephantiatic skin and tissue must be most completely removed, the raw surface being subsequently sldn-grafted by Thiersch's method. In cases involving the scrotum, and in which the penis is entirely liidden, the mass must be freely incised from well above the symphysis pubis to the opening of the preputial funnel, and the enormous penis and the spermatic cords, up to the external ring, cleanly enucleated, the thickened gubernacula being divided below in order to free the cords. The penis, cords, and testes in their tunicse vaginales are turned up on to the abdomen out of harm's way, • the urethra is guarded by a catheter placed in it, and the mass amputated. Every particle of diseased skin and subcutaneous tissue is then dissected away and the muscles are laid bare. The flaps of healthy sldn that remain are undercut to form a pouch for the testes. The cords and tunicae are now cleared of disease by careful dissection, and tlie testes placed in the pouch made for them. Generally most of the penis is left bare and is subsequently grafted. If only the scrotum is affected the operation is much easier, the 3G