BACILLUS TETANI 63 is said to have yielded excellent results in Italy, the mortality of nnoperated cases being reduced from 2i per cent, to 6 per cent, in the human subject (Sclavo). Active immunization by a series of vaccines is extensively employed on the Continent for protecting cattle, and has resulted in an enormously diminished mortality from this disease. Bacillus tetani (Plate 6, Fig. 1).—The infective nature of tetanus was first clearly proved by Carle and Rattone, who showed in 1884 that the inoculation of material from the neighbourhood of the wound in a case of tetanus led to the development of the disease in the animals employed (rabbits). Nicolaier, in 1885, infected small animals with garden soil, and found that many of them developed symp- toms of tetanus. When these occurred there was always found at tlie site of inoculation a particular thin rod-shaped organism, which Nicolaier regarded as the probable cause of tlie disease. He succeeded in growing the bacillus, and noted its formation of terminal spores, but did not obtain pure cultures. Rosenbach demonstrated the presence of the bacillus in a tetanus wound in man, and produced tetanus in animals by inoculating them with the wound secretion, subsequently dis- covering the same bacillus at the site of infection in the animals in question. In 1889, Kitasato isolated the organism in pure culture by first heating the material in which it was present for an hour at 80' C, and subsequently cultivating anaerobically on agar-plates. He showed that the inoculation of pure cultures into animals produced the specific disease, and that the organism could again be recovered in pure culture from the site of inoculation. The organism is a slender rod with rounded ends, 2-4- ^ long by 0'3-0'5 fjb wide, which sometimes grows out into long filaments in artificial culture media. It is slowly motile, and possesses very numerous flagella, which are distributed all round its periphery. It forms a terminal spore whose diameter is considerably greater than that of the bacillus (l-l'S ix), thus giving rise to the characteristic '■ drumstick" appearance. The spore itself is usually spherical in shape, but sometimes assumes a distinctly oval outline. The bacillus stains readily with all the ordinary basic aniline dyes, both in wet preparations and in dried films. The spores stain easily by the modified Ziehl-Neelsen method already described, and they retain the stain in Gram-preparations. The bacillus itself is also Gram-positive. It is anaerobic, but, though sometimes regarded as a particularly strict anaerobe, it will as a matter of fact grow very well where the conditions are only moderately anaerobic, as in a deep agar-stab, where growth occurs from about 2 cm. below the surface downwards. At the same time, a relatively small amount of oxygen is sufficient;