PREPARATION OF UTENSILS AND DRESSINGS 261 therefore should be put first into warm water, which is then raised to boiUng-point and maintained at that heat for 20 minutes. Injection syringes are frequently sterilized by immersing the needle in and filling the syringe with oil at a temperature of 160° C. Tliis temperature may be roughly taken to be that at which bread immersed in oil is fried brown. Silver and rubber catheters are sterilized by boiling. Gwn-elastic catheters may be kept in glycerine and perchloride of mercury, or in long test-tubes fitted with caps containing formalin so that the instruments are kept continuously in a moist formalin vapour. Boiling is very efficient, but quickly rots the fabric. Gloves may be boiled in plain water without soda, or sterilized dry with the dressings. If the latter method be adopted, it is essential that their freedom from holes be ascertained, and that, in order to prevent sticking together, they be thoroughly dried and ^^owdered. It is our custom to sterilize the gloves, towels for drying the hands, and a castor of talc powder together in a separate small drum. Bowls and basins should be boiled in a large copper. In cases where this is impracticable, the dishes may be " flamed " by rinsing in methylated spirit, which is then set alight. It is obvious that the common fault of handling bowls with the thumb inside must be avoided. PREPARATION OF DRESSINGS, SWABS, SPONGES, ETC. These should all be made of sterilizable material. The use of marine sponges should be entirely abandoned, owing to the involved processes and uncertain result of their preparation. In their stead, for the packing-ofE of cavities, e.g. the abdomen, the surgeon may use either rolls of gauze or squares composed of several layers of gauze stitched together and having a tape fixed to one corner, brought out of the wound and caught in forceps to prevent loss in the abdomen. For use as mops, swabs made of cotton-wool tied in gauze, or small squares of gauze in several layers, are convenient and completely sterilizable. We prefer simple, plain gauze and wooi to the medicated varieties, such as those impregnated with iodoform, cyanide, or sal-alembroth. If these be used, they, like the plain dressings, must be sterihzed by heat, and thus much of the iodine is driven oft' slowly from iodoform. Iodoform gauze for packing is often used in view of the fact that it gives off nascent iodine in contact with pus or blood, but it may set up unpleasant local irritation and general toxic effects. In similar manner all towels, overalls, and other fabrics are to be sterilized by heat.