353 CLASSIFICATION parts around. A simple tumour only endangers life mechanically, as the result of its size and position. Thus, a small, perfectly simple tumour in the interior of the larynx may prove fatal by causing obstruction to respiration, and a cartilaginous tumour of the pelvic bones has been known to cause death by interfering with the act of parturition. A malignant tumour, on the other hand, progressively invades and destroys the tissues of the part in which it grows, and eventually, unless removed, causes the death of the individual. Malignancy is evi- denced in two ways : locally, by infiltration and the resulting destruc- tive effect of the tumour on the surrounding tissues ; and generally, by the occurrence of secondary deposits, or metastases, in other parts of the body. This matter will be more fully discussed later, and it is sufficient here to point out that different malignant growths exhibit tlie local and general evidences of malignancy in very varying degrees. Thus, the tumour of the skin commonly known as rodent ulcer exhibits its malignancy simply by a slowly progressive destruction of the sur- rounding tissues, without, even in its latest stages, showing any tendency to produce metastases. An example of the opposite extreme is often afforded by certain cutaneous melanotic growths, for, while the primary growth remains as an altogether insignificant pigmented spot, it may already have given rise to widely distributed secondary de- posits in the lymphatic glands and elsewhere, which rapidly prove fatal. It is here necessary to point out that multiflicity is in itself no evidence of malignancy. Fatty tumours of the most perfectly benign character may be numbered by thousands, but, although they may differ in age, each tumour is an independent growth, and one is as much primary as another. In the case of multiple malignant growths it can usually be clearly proved that one only is primary, and that the remainder are secondary, not merely in the date of their appear- ance, but in being actually derived from the primary tumour. It is thus seen that the distinction between a simple and a malig- nant tumour depends chiefly upon its mode of growth and its behaviour in relation to the surrounding tissues. The question naturally arises : Can the distinction be made by a histological examination of the tumour itself ? The structure of the simple tumour is often described as typical, ))y which is understood that it imitates more or less closely a certain normal type, such as fat, a blood-vessel, or a secreting gland. A malignant tumour, on the contrary, is more or less atypical in its structure, and consists of connective-tissue or epithelial cells wliicli take on an irregular and uncontrolled mode of growth, so that although they may retain, in the main, the type of structure from which they have arisen, they show modifications, sometimes to a very marked degree. For instance, a simple glandular tumour of the breast imitates more or less closely the acinous structure of the mammary X