637 FRACTURES skuU, the diagnosis of which at present is not often attempted by X-rays, can frequently be demonstrated if the head and the X-ray tube be placed in proper relative positions ; the possibility of such demonstration is proved by the fact that in certain views of the skull it is a matter of common knowledge that sutures are to be seen clearly and distinctly. The varieties of injury that may take place, for example, in the case of the shoulder-joint, are well illustrated by four of the accom- panjdng radiograms. Plate 52, Fig. 1, is a fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, Fig. 2 a comminuted fracture of the head and neck of the humerus, Fig. 3 a comminuted fracture of the surgical neck. Fig. 4 a fracture of the neck of the scapula. Injuries of the elbow-joint in childhood are confusing, owing to the disposition of the epiphyses. The radiograms next to be referred to are examples of some common injuries. Plate 53, Fig. 1, is a fracture of the shaft of the humerus, just above the lower epiphysis, with some splitting of the shaft and impaction of the lower fragment; Fig. 2 is a partial fracture of the shaft, just above the epiphysis, with slight backward displacement of the lower fragment; Fig. 3 shows two views at right-angle planes of a fracture of the external condyle, with much displacement forwards and outwards of the detached con- dyle and epiphysis of the capitellum. In the adult the common injuries that take place in, and in the neighbourhood of this joint, cair more easily be recognized. Plate 53, Fig. 4, shows a fracture of the head of the radius, a fragment of which lies displaced forwards. Plate 54, Fig. 1, is a representation of a very common injury, namely a fracture of the olecranon process of the ulna, with wide displacement of the upper fragment from the shaft. Fig. 2 shows a fracture of the shaft of the humerus, about . 1 inch above the elbow-joint, with displacement forwards of the lower fragment. Fractures of the femur at no great distance from the hi])-joint can be easily and certainly recognized. Fig. 3 shows a fracture of the shaft which also involves the great trochanter; Fig. 4, an intra- capsular fracture of the neck. Displaced epiphyses are readily recognized. Plate 55, Fig. 1, con- sists of radiograms, secured at right-angle planes, of the displacement of the lower epiphysis of the femur forwards and inwards. Remarkable injuries that may occur in the case of the bones of the foot, hand, and leg are seen in the next seven radiograms. Plate 55, Fig. 2. shows a fracture of the scaphoid bone of the carpus in the position indicated, no displacement of the fragments being observable ; Fig. 3, a fracture of the scaphoid bone of the tarsus, with much displace- ment of the fragments ; Fig. 4, a fracture of the os calcis ; Plate 56,