SUPPURATION i8o the main sources of infection than to leave them for fear of destroy- ing the integrity of the encysting tissues, always provided that first the pus has been removed. Death rapidly follows the rupture of a large tubal abscess into the peritoneal cavity ; the early fatal issue cannot be due to the liberation of bacteria into new fields of operation, but is due to the pouring of a highly poisonous fluid from a cavity whose power of absorption is small into a cavity whose power of absorption is great. Supposing the infection to cause an acute diffuse suppuration instead of one which is acute and circumscribed, those parts where the disease has lasted longest without spreading resemble the margin of an acute circumscribed abscess of the same age ; in other parts of the circumference where it is spreading tlie appearance resembles that of an acute circumscribed abscess of about twenty-four or forty-eight hours' duration. 3. As the abscess approaches the sldn, and before it actually reaches it, the hair-follicles, sebaceous glands, sweat-glands, and superjacent epithelium undergo atrophy and disappear. The last thing seen before rupture is a burrowing of the pus beneath the horny layer of the skin, which finally gives way, and then the abscess " bursts." An abscess assumes a round or oval shape partly from the marginal spread from a central point, partly from the centrifugal pressure which it exerts upon the surrounding unaffected tissues, and partly from the centripetal force of the elastic surrounding tissues. There is difficulty in accounting for the fortunate tendency of an abscess to spread towards the skin. Some writers say that the spread is in the direction of least resistance ; that accounts for abscesses spontaneously opening into bronchi, intestines, bladder, pleura, and veins, causing those complications which would naturally follow such accidents. Action of muscles and pulsation of arteries are assumed to be capable of forcing an abscess towards the external surface by vis a tergo. Natural and easy pathways no doubt aid extension to the skin. In many sections of acute suppuration in skin I have seen the advancing process spreading in oblique lines towards the surface, these lines corresponding to the site of the lymphatic vessels which accompany the arteries supplying the skin. The microscopical appear- ances do not suggest that the invading process is being pushed into parts unwilling to receive it ; and I am inclined to believe that local susceptibility is a great factor in influencing the direction of the spread of the disease. Symptoms.—These are due to the absorption of toxic products, some of which are the toxins of the micro-organism only, while others are derived from the poisonous products (autolysins) of the body.