GANGRENE 236 and a line of separation associated with a considerable degree of inflammation gradually forms. Such a termination is uncommon. More often the initial swelling and oedema persist, the surface becomes mottled, bullae form, and septic moist gangrene develops. This quickly spreads up the leg, and is accompanied by a severe degree of inflammation in the adjacent living tissues. While this is taking place the constitutional symptoms of septic intoxication are marked, and frequently accentuated by the glycsemia. If radical measures are delayed, death takes place from septic complications, diabetic coma, or exhaustion. Treatment.-—Prophylactic treatment must be directed towards the suppression or reduction of the sugar excreted. This can only be successfully accomplished by a proper diet from which all starchy foods, sugar-producing substances, and sugar itself are excluded, and by the administration of codeine in gradually increasing doses. From the surgical point of view the feet and legs must be kept warm, and tlie patient should be specially cautioned against the danger of local injuries as'an exciting cause of gangrene. Should he sustain a cut or an abrasion, every possible precaution should be taken to secure primary union by rest of the part and by tlie employment of dry sterilized dressings. Local treatment.—As soon as the gangrenous process has com- menced the surgeon sliould endeavour to maintain, or convert it into, the dry variety by promoting asepsis, and should encourage self- limitation by assisting the circulation in the adjacent living tissues. To this end the devitalized area should be swathed in dry sterilized dressings, the limb elevated, and gentle friction applied to the healthy skin. In every case an endeavour should be made to convert a septic process as far as possible into an aseptic one, in order to aid the forma- tion of a line of demarcation. The amount of urine passed in the twenty-four hours must be measured, and the quantity of sugar estimated. If no line of demarcation forms, and if the quantity of sugar does not diminish in spite of a rigid diet and absolute rest, ampu- tation is the proper course to adopt. In cases of non-inflammatory gangrene it is permissible to await a line of demarcation before decid- ing on amputation, for by so doing the limb may be safely removed at a lower level; but if the patient's constitutional condition is feeble, or if the percentage of sugar remains high, early amputation should be performed, even though a line of separation is apparently about to develop. In the case of the inflammatory form of diabetic gangrene expectant treatment is dangerous, and therefore not permissible. Whenever possible the operation should be performed under local anaesthesia by the method of venous infiltration (p. 684), or by spinal analgesia (p. 688). The tissues should be handled as little as