STAINING METHODS-WIDAL REACTION 43 5. Treat with picric-acid-hydi'ochloric-acid-alculiol ^ for 2 seconds. 6. Wash with tap-water. 7. Stain with anihne gentian violet, carbol gentian violet, or methyl violet for 2 minutes. 8. Pour off the stain. 9. Wash with a solution of iodine in potassium iodine." 10. Treat with a solution of iodine in potassium iodine for 3 minutes. 11. Decolorize and dehydrate with absolute alcohol until the carmine led again shows distinctly. 12. Clear with xylol. 13. Mount in xylol clamar. Ziehl-Neelsen 1. Treat with xylol for 1 minute. 2. Wash with xylol. 3. Kemove xylol with absolute alcohol. 4. Stain with carbol-fuehsin, heating the slide gently, and leaving for 5 minutes. 5. Wash with tap-water. 6. Decolorize with 25 per cent. H.jSO,| for from 3 to 10 seconds. 7. Wash with 60 per cent, alcohol till only a faintly rosy colour remains. Or, 6a. Decolorize with alcoholic aniline hydrocliloride till only a faintly rosy colour'remains. 7a. Wash with tap-water. a. Stain with malachite green or methylene blue for 1 minute. 9. Wash with tap-water. 10. Dehydrate with absolute alcohol. 11. Clear with xylol. 12. Mount in xylol damar. WiDAL Reaction The phenomenon of agglutination, or the aggregation of bacteria in suspension into clumps under the action of specific antibodies called agglu- tinins, has already been discussed in connexion with the subject of immunity. It may be watched under the microscope in a hanging-drop, and in bacterial suspensions its occurrence leads to a striking alteration in the naked-eye ajipearance of the fluids concerned. This consists in a gradual change from uniform turbidity to a granular condition of the fluid, and terminates under suitable conditions in the " sedimentation " or settling out of the bacterial clumps. The reaction as used clinically for tlie diagnosis of typhoid infection is spoken of as Widal's reaction, and when employed for this purpose, or for the differentiation of B. typhosus. B. ■pavatypliosus. B. coli. and allied forms, is still commonly carried out by the microscopic method. This must, there- fore, be described at the outset. But it must be clearly stated that the only 1 HCl-alcohol with a little picric acid added. " " Lugor.s iodine " : iodine 1 grm., potassium iodide 2 grm., distilled water 300 c.c.