8/8 ACTINOMYCOSIS tration (" wooden tongue of cattle), with or without multiple nodules and abscesses. .8. The hrain may be invaded by metastatic deposits, carried to it by the blood-vessels, or, as in Ponfick's case, by spread from the cranial base. The abscesses are in the white matter, are usually multiple, and are surrounded by areas of cerebritis and meningitis. Their develop- ment may be comparatively rapid and occupy only five or six weeks. 9. The heart and pericardium may be invaded in thoracic actino- mycosis. Diagnosis.—The disease must be differentiated from—• (a) Tuberculosis, especially tubercular lymphadenitis and peri- adenitis. {h) Carcinoma, (c) Sarcoma. {d) Syphilis, (e) Chronic abscess. (/) Chronic appendicitis in cascal cases. {g) Chronic glanders of the skin and subcutaneous tissue. The following points will help in its differentiation :— 1. The history of great chronicity and exposure to infection 2. The alternation of very dense infiltration with multiple semi fluctuating areas. 3. The sinus-riddled condition, when present. 4. The gradual merging hito the surrounding tissues. 5. The mottled bluish colour of the skin over the softened areas. 6. The fact that the lymph-glands are not affected unless secondary pyogenetic infection has supervened. 7. The large size of the area involved compared with the small size of the tumour. 8. The character of the exudate. 9. The diagnosis is rendered certain by the discovery of the charac- teristic organism in the discharges or in the granulation tissue. Recently a method of serum diagnosis depending upon fixation of the complement has been employed, but up to the time of writing the results have been variable, the negative reaction being especially unreliable. Prognosis.—As regards life, the outlook is not so hopeless as is sometimes stated. Even untreated cases occasionally, though rarely, survive, and although the death-rate is high amongst patients sub- jected to treatment, a considerable number ultimately recover. The prognosis is worse if pyogenetic infection be added, if entrance into a vein and metastasis occur, if important organs become involved, or if amyloid degeneration follow as the result of infection with pyo- genetic organisms. Death results from exhaustion, amyloid degenera-