322 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES of tonsils, a leech-bite, a prick from a needle, or a cut while shaving. The bleeding may be arrested for a time ; but it may recur again and again until the patient dies, though recovery is the rule. It is a curious fact that the tendency to hajmorrhage is not constant, and a well-marked bleeder may injure himself and not bleed more than a normal person, although at other times very slight pressure on the skin will determine a large eccliymosis. Bleeders are said to have extraordinary recuperative powers, and also great capacity for withstanding the loss of blood, and as the patient gets older the tendency to bleed is diminished and in some cases may disappear. The skin lesions vary from a bruise to a large lisematoma ; there is no purpuric rash similar to that seen in cases of purpura hsemorrhagica, wliich is sometimes mistaken for haemophilia. The haemorrhage which occurs into joints deserves special mention, as the disease used to be described as associated with a chronic arthritis. This arthritis is solely due to hsemorrhage into the synovial cavity of the joint, the knee- and elbow-joints being those usually affected. The physical signs in a recent case are those of a subacute arthritis with effusion, wliich gradually subsides ; but after repeated hsemorrhages the joint, both clinically and pathologically, resembles that of a case of chronic osteo-arthritis, or even a chronic tubercular arthritis. Operations on these joints under a mistaken diagnosis, or in order to strengthen the limb and get more movement, have been followed by fatal haemorrhage. Treatment.—Children who inherit the disease, or even come of a bleeder family, should be carefully guarded against all the common accidents of childhood, for prophylaxis is of the utmost importance. Every form of surgical operation is contra-indicated, except those which are absolutely necessary to save hfe. The daughters of bleeders should not marry. The treatment of the haemorrhage when it occurs does not differ in principle from the treatment of haemorrhage occurring in the non-haemophilic ; but every method should be tried in succession, except that no operation, such as ligature in continuity, should be done, and more trust should be put in haemostatics and general treat- ment by drugs. Calcium chloride and calcium lactate have been advised by Wright to increase the coagulability of the blood, but the value of these drugs is doubtful. Others have tried the injection of human serum, dogs' and rabbits' serums, or antidiphtheritic serum, but these appear useless in the true family disease, although they may be of service in profuse ha3morrhage from other causes.