549 CARCINOMA more or less distinctly tlie columnar shape of the cells. To the naked eye the three most important forms of primary cancer of the liver are—(1) a soft, solid mass in the substance of the organ, usually the right lobe ; (2) a diffuse form associated with cirrhosis ; and (3) multiple nodules associated with cirrhosis. The liver may also be invaded by the direct extension of a carcinoma originating in the gall-bladder or extraliepatic ducts. Carcinoma of the gall-bladder is much more common in women than in men, and is associated with the presence of gall-stones in probably 80 or 90 pev cent, of the cases. Such a relationship cannot be accidental, and there can be no doubt that the changes in the mucous membrane resulting from the long-continued irritation of calculi is the cause of the malignant disease. The tumour may be of the columnar- celled variety, or may have the vmdifferentiated structure of carcinoma simplex, whilst in a few recorded cases a squamous-celled growth has resulted from a metaplasia similar to that sometimes occurring in other mucous membranes normally lined with columnar epithelium. The growth usually tends to infiltrate the wall of the gall-bladder, forming eventually a solid mass of growth with gall-stones embedded in its centre. Colloid degeneration may occur, and in rare cases the tumour assumes a polypoid or papillary form. As the disease extends, it is very liable to infiltrate tlie adjacent parts of the liver, or other neigh- bouring parts such as the colon or pylorus may be involved. Secondary deposits are likely to be found in the glands in the portal fissure, but metastases elsewliere are very rare. In the large biliary ducts carcinoma is more frequent in the lower part of the common bile-duct than elsewhere, and is an important cause of obstructive jaundice. The character of the growth is similar to that occurring in tlie gall-bladder, and it may present itself as a nodular mass in the lumen, as a dense growth surrounding the duct, or as a warty or villous excrescence. Unlike carcinoma of the gall-bladder, the disease occurring primarily in the ducts is rarely associated with gall-stones. For carcinoma of the papilla of Vater see p. 551. Carcinoma of the pancreas is rare. Among 2,005 cases of carcinoma examined post-mortem, collected by Biach from three Vienna hospitals and quoted by Robson and Moynihan, the pancreas was the seat of the disease in 29 cases. The tumour is usually a car- cinoma simplex of the hard variety, but the growth may be columnar- celled, and sometimes presents colloid degeneration. In very rare instances cystic changes in the tumour have been so marked as to con- stitute one variety of pancreatic cyst. A hard carcinoma in the head of the pancreas, wliich is by far the most common form of the disease, is of great clinical importance as a cause of obstructive jaundice.