624 X-RAY EXAMINATION use of by Professor Goldmann. Having rendered the abdomen almost completely empty by starvation and purgation, he inflated the large intestine with air, and found that the whole abdomen became much more translucent. He has been able in these circum- stances to demonstrate the presence of calculi in the appendix, and even new growths of the intestine. The difficulty in investigating the condition of the stomach and intestine by these new methods is that the value of the observations made is not yet quite clear. For example, a great delay may occur in the passage of food through the intestine and yet no definite obstruction in the lumen of the gut be discovered; or, after inflation of the large intestine, shadows may be observed which may or may not be due to abnormal conditions of the intestine or of the abdominal contents. Gall-stones.—The diagnosis of gall-stones by X-ray examina- tion is not very satisfactory, yet Beck claims that by a method of examination devised by himself he gets most valuable results. Gall-stones are certainly opaque to the rays, and a large single stone casts a very distinct shadow, but the movements of the liver with respiration, combined with its great density, render difficult the de- monstration of their presence in the living subject. The indications by X-rays are often slight and very indefinite. It would appear that if the result of X-ray exainination is negative, no great value can be attached to it, whereas if the result is positive it may be safely inferred that gall-stones are present. DISEASES OF THE URINARY TRACT In no branch of surgery is X-raj' examination of such service as in relation to the urinary system, provided the examinations be properly carried out. The methods employed differ in many respects, though they mainly resolve themselves into mechanical means of pressing the abdominal contents away from the kidney and at the same time diminishing, as far as possible, the movements of the kidney during respiration. The writer's method of carrying out the examination is one that has given good results and requires few apparatus. The anode of the X-ray tube is placed immediately below the spine of the second lumbar vertebra ; in every case this relationship between the anode and the vertebrae is maintained. To obtain a certain knowledge of the normal relationship of the kidneys and ureters to the bones, the ureters and pelves of the kidneys of a post-mortem subject were injected with an emulsion of bismuth, and a radiogram was secured of the renal region of the subject with the anode of the tube in the usual relation to the second lumbar vertebra. Plate 37, Fig. 2, illustrates the shadow