GANGRENE 204 conditions which regulate the amount of fluid in the tissues at the time of their death. If the return of venous blood is impeded in any way—either by the sudden cessation of the propulsive force exerted by the arterial stream, as in the case of embolism, or by definite mechanical obstruction to the venous circulation, as in strangulation of the intestine—the affected part will be loaded with fluid, and the imme- diate condition will be that of aseptic moist gangrene. If micro- organisms now gain access to the part, or if they were already present at the time of death, putrefactive changes will rapidly set in, and the condition will be that of septic moist gangrene. However, should the evaporation of fluid be promoted, the return circulation favoured, and the part kept strictly clean, the area of aseptic moist gangrene may be partially or totally converted into dry gangrene. In order to elucidate the foregoing statements, it will be advisable to discuss these clinical forms of gangrene at greater length. Dry gangrene.—This form is usually due to the arrest of the arterial blood supply to tissues which are drained by an efficient venous circulation. It occurs in superficial parts of the body which are freely exposed to the air, so that desiccation is aided by evaporation. The gangrenous process spreads very slowly, for, owing to the dry- ness, putrefactive changes due to invasion by saprophytic bacteria are rendered difficult or impossible. The classical example of dry gangrene is senile gangrene of the extremities (Fig. 9), which is generally Fig. 0.—Case of dry gangrene (senile). The process had gone on for about eight weeks before the photograph was taken. met with in association with endarteritis, whereby the calibre of the blood-vessels is diminished. But it must be remembered that dry gangrene may occur in a limb in which the principal artery, though healthy, is suddenly blocked by an embolus or a ligature, provided that the venous circulation is unimpaired, that