CLINICAL FEATURES OF ACTINOMYCOSIS 877 The cachexia becomes more marked, tlie irregular fever more con- stant, and hiter the lump may burst on the surface, usually in the cascal region, and discharge the ray fungus. The liver is most fre- quently the seat of secondary deposits, which suppurate and give rise to large, irregular-shaped abscesses with walls of varying thick- ness. Local perihepatitis may occur. 3. The respirator!/ tract.—Lung infection may sometimes be primary and due to inhalation, or more usually secondary by direct spread from disease in the neck, mediastina, or abdomen. It manifests itself as a destructive broncho-pneumonia with peribronchial nodules and small, softened areas often combined with interstitial fibrosis. In a few cases the fibrosis is the predominant character. During this earlier stage local physical signs are often wanting, and the general symptoms indeterminate. In a patient seen by McGavin and the writer, rapidly progressive emaciation and weakness were the only ascertained signs, until the chance expectoration of a single pellet con- taining the micro-organism led to a diagnosis. Later the lung becomes contracted, and the diameter of the chest on the affected side may be diminished. The disease extends to the pleura, giving rise to adhesions, and sometimes effusion. It eventually reaches and per- forates the thoracic wall, diapliragm, or pericardium. In these later stages the temperature is higher and more constant. Pain, night- sweats, and repeated haemoptysis may be present, and the physical signs of pulmonary disease are more obvious. The sputum contains granules of mycelium and evidences of lung necrosis, although elastic fibres are frequently absent. In the larynx, actinomycosis is usually secondary to disease in the neck or mouth, but cases have been recorded in which it ajspeared to be jJrimary. It generally commences as a perichondritis. 4. The genito-urinari/ tract in any part may be secondarily involved in abdominal actinomycosis. Primary cases have been reported in the kidney, prostate, and vagina. .5. The hones are never the seat of primary actinomycosis. Those most commonly invaded are the lower jaw, verteln-a:', ribs, and occa- sionally the upper jaw and the base of the slcull. They undergo exten- sive erosion, which is not, as a rule, associated with any great amount of new jDcriosteal bone formation. In a few cases, liowever, this has been marked. In the spine, angular curvature has been reported ; the meninges and the cord usually escape, though there may be inter- costal neuralgia. 6. Although the sl-i» is more often secondarily tlian primarily involved, numerous cases are on record in which it was the initial site of infection. 7. In the tongue the disease takes the form of a dense fibi'ous iufil-