174 SUPPURATION ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBED ABSCESS Definition.—Acute circumscribed abscess is the term applied to a localized, rapidly formed collection of pus in a cavity produced by the suppurative process. Pathological anatomy.—For the purpose of description the sequence of events in the development of an acute circumscribed abscess will be dealt with under three heads, and as it occurs in the subcutaneous tissue :—■ 1. Entrance of micro-organisms and their after-effect in producing emigration of leucocytes, transudation of lymph, and death of tissue. 2. Proliferation of the neighbouring fibrous bands and connective tissue which normally connect and support the adipose tissue ; this is commonly called encystment of the abscess—erroneously, I think. 3. Rupture of the abscess. 1. The micro-organisms at once begin to multiply. At the end of the first hour after inoculation they are scattered diffusely among the tissues into which the inoculation was made. Emigration of leucocytes, transudation of lymph, and necrosis of the tissues are now evident. Around the margins of the living tissues leucocytes, even at the end of the first hour, are collecting in considerable numbers ; some have already penetrated the dead area and met their death ; many of the immigrated leucocytes have incorporated a large number of the invading micro-organisms (phagocytosis). By the end of twenty-four liours both micro-organisms and leuco- cytes have increased enormously in number, and masses of micro- organisms are seen scattered among great crowds of leucocytes, many of which are evidently dead and degenerating (leucolysis), whilst phagocytosis is greatly increased. Mixed up with these are masses of necrotic tissue, and also areas of more resistant fibrous tissue which has not yet undergone death and liquefaction. At the margin of the abscess local connective-tissue cells begin to multiply; they are also seen in small numbers lying free among the leucocytes and micro- organisms at the edge of the lesion. Enormous numbers of micro- organisms are seen in the liquid content in the centre of the lesion. In forty-eight hours all these processes have increased, and one marked change is to be noticed. Micro-organisms, when stained, can be seen (low power) forming a sinuous line round the margin of the lesion ; under a high power they are seen to be lying between newly formed connective-tissue cells and leucocytes that have collected there—the latter also incorporating many of them. This line of micro- organisms at the margin of the lesion is characteristic, and must be important; it can be stained throughout the whole subsequent course of the lesion. (Plate 25.)