498 TUMOURS Tlie course likely to be pursued by a sarcoma of muscle is well illustrated by tlie following case : A girl aged 15 noticed a small lump in the calf of the right leg. Two months later the tumour, as large as a plover's egg, was removed together with the surrounding part of the gastrocnemius muscle in which it was situated, and proved to be a small round-celled sarcoma. Two months later extensive recurrence had taken place in the calf muscles, and amputation was performed through the thigh. When seen again, five months after amputation, the patient was suffering from fever and dyspnoea ; two pints of blood-stained fluid were removed by aspiration from the left pleural cavity. It was thus clear that metastases were present in the lungs, and that a fatal result would not be long delayed. The treatment of a sarcoma of muscle by the complete removal of the muscle, as originally suggested by Teevan, is rarely practicable even if advisable, and in the case of the limb muscles high amputation is the only alternative. When the muscles in the region of the shoulder are involved, the interscapulo-thoracic amputation must be performed. Sarcoma occasionally occurs in the muscular substance of the tongue, and cases of this nature have been recorded by Butlin, Targett, Marion, Littlewood, and others. The disease usually begins in the substance of the tongue, while the mucous membrane over it remains intact. Most of the recorded cases have been of the round-celled variety, and enlargement of the lymphatic glands appears to be excep- tional. Lympho-sarcoma of the base of the tongue has, however, caused extensive glandular involvement. A sarcoma of the substance of the tongue must be carefully distinguished from such inflammatory affections as gumma, chronic abscess and actinomycosis, and from a simple angioma. Endothelioma of the tongue has been described by Lazarus Barlow and Eve. In Eve's two cases, which should, perhaps, rather be regarded as instances of endothelial sarcoma of low malignancy, the tumour formed a prominent elevation at the extreme base of the tongue, and there was some glandular enlargement. In one case the tumour was of a lymphendotheliomatous, and in the other of a peritheliomatous, type. In a case of this nature which we have recently observed in a woman aged 42, the tumour, which had only been noticed for a month, formed a smooth prominence at the back of the tongue, chiefly to the left side of the middle line. A considerable glandular enlargement in the right carotid triangle had existed for at least two years. The tumour of the tongue and the glandular deposit both presented a structure which was at first thought to be carcinoma, probably arising in the mucous glands, but further examination and a comparison with the report of Eve's case have convinced us that the tumour was an