COMPLICATIONS OF ULCUS MOLLE S35 Localization,—In the male the chief seat of the ulcer is the prepuce or glans penis, more rarely it is met with in the urethra, where it is lilcely to be mistaken for gonorrhoea. In women it is most frequently seen about the fossa navicularis, the clitoris, and the meatus urinarius ; also about the labia majora and the anus. On rare occasions the ulcers have been noted on the finger, lip, conjunctiva, etc. Complications.— Apart from such minor complications as phimosis or paraphimosis as a result of the inflammatory oedema of the prepuce, there are two severer troubles which deserve mention. One of these—acute inflannnation of the inguinal lymphatic glands— is of very common occurrence. In men about one-third to one-half of all cases of soft sore develop an acute adenitis. In women it is less common. It may arise at almost any period of the disease, but is most frequently seen in the second week. One or more of the glands in the groin become enlarged and tender, the temperature is elevated, and in the course of a few da3's the gland breaks down and forms an abscess, which, if unopened, undermines the skin and is evacuated spontaneously, leaving a rugged and indelible scar. The second complication, phagedtena and gangrene, is happily decidedly rare, for it is always serious and difficult to treat. It is met with most frequently in neglected, filthy, and debilitated subjects. The ulceration assumes an mihealthy sloughy appearance and steadily extends, causing grave destruction of tissue. Usually it spreads superficially, at times deeply. Its course may be rapid, but commonly it is very slow, often resisting all treatment for weeks or months. Gangrene may arise as a complication of soft sore in a variety of ways. Perhaps most commonly it is seen as a consequence of the circulatory disturbance occasioned by a tight phimosis or paraphimosis. At other times it is to be traced to a general constitutional disease, such as diabetes. It is most serious if associated with phagedaena, when grave and extensive destruction of the tissues may take place. Prognosis.— The prognosis should be guarded ; for not only is the condition at times troublesome to cure, but the possibility of syphilis l)i'ing also engrafted must be borne in mind. Treatment.— In uncomplicated cases the treatment is purely local. The ulcerated surface is cauterized with liquid carbohc acid, and then powdered with iodoform, aristol, europhen, or other antiseptic preparation, and kept as clean and as free from irritation as possible. At the first sign of an inguinal adenitis, rest in bed should be enforced, and an ice-bag or a light elastic dressing applied to the groin. Should sujjpuration threaten, an attempt may be made to abort the inflammation by the injection of an antiseptic into the substance of the gland. Or the formation of pus may be hastened