52 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY Micrococcus catarrhalis.—This organism is closely similar to the staphylococci, but is slightly larger, and often assumes a diplccoccal form. It grows on agar in the form of small greyish colonies, and it does not liquefy gelatin. Unless transplanted every second or third day it speedily dies out in cultivation. It is Gram- negative. It has been isolated in a number of cases of bronchitis and broncho- pneumonia which otherwise presented the appearance of a mild " influenza," and it has also frequently been found in whooping- cough. Micrococcus tetragenus (Plate 2, Fig, 3).—The 31 icrococcus tetragenus was discovered by Gafiky, and is distinguished by its habit of dividing in two planes at right angles to each other, thus giving rise to the appearance of groups of four, or tetrads. The organism possesses a definite capsule when found in the animal body, but loses it in artificial media. It is non-flagellated and non-motile. It is Gram- positive. By the counterstaining of a Gram-preparation with eosin the capsule can be well shown. The organism grows aerobically on all ordinary media as a porcelain- white, shiny, tenacious film ; it does not hquefy gelatin, and its growth in bouillon appears as a very slight turbidity near the surface with a copious and tenacious slimy deposit. The micro-organism is patho- genetic for small laboratory animals, and especially so for mice. It is doubtful whether it is ever in itself definitely pathogenetic for man, but it is frequently met with as a secondary infection in suppura- tion in and about the respiratory passages, especially in the lung cavities of phthisis. Sarcina.—The term sarcina is applied to a large group of micro - cocci which are distinguished by their somewhat large size, and by their habit of multiplying by division in three directions mutually at right angles, thus giving rise to packets of eight cocci having usually a very characteristic appearance under the microscope. They are non-motile and have no flagella. They stain well with ordinary basic aniline dyes. They are Gram-positive. It is doubtful whether any of them are pathogenetic for man. though several varieties have been isolated from the human body, and named accordingly S. ventriculi, S. fulmonum, and so on. Many of them are strikingly pigmented organisms, and diflerent varieties exhibit white, yellow, orange, lemon, brown, red (a whole series), and violet coloration. They grow very readily on all the ordinary media, presenting on an agar-slope a thick, raised, moist, and shiny, paint-like streak of the appropriate colour. Many of them liquefy gelatin rather freely, though a few possess no such peptonizing action. In bouillon they