TUMOURS 492 and absorption, tlae former by the presence of osteoblasts on tlie surface, and the latter by the presence of multinucleated osteoclasts lying in Howship's lacunae. The spaces in the osseous tissue are occupied by characteristic sarcoma cells, which are usually spindle-shaped or of mixed form (Fig. 118). The clinical features of a sarcoma differ so widely according to its position and variety that no single description of the tumour is possible. A sarcoma of a deep structure, such as the periosteum, or a muscle or fascia, presents itself as a tumour which continuously increases in size, often at a rapid rate. It tends to assume a more or less globular shape, and is often distinctly lobulated. Its con- sistence varies greatly, and, whilst the softer forms ma}^ easily be mistaken for a fluid swelling, the firmer varieties may closely resemble a fibrous tumour in their consistence. The frequent resemblance of a soft sarcoma to a fluid swelling is most important in diagnosis, especially in the differentiation of such a tumour from a chronic abscess, for the softness may be so marked that a distinct sense of fluctuation can be detected in it. The dijJerentiation is sometimes rendered still more difiicult by the fact that some local heat is often appreciable over the tumour, and in certain cases by a distinct elevation of the body temperature. A physical sign of great diagnostic importance which can not infrequently be detected in a vascular sarcoma is pulsation. This sign is often very helpful, especially as a means of distinguishing a sarcoma of a bone from an inflammatory enlargement, but it is also an occasional cause of error, and a pulsating sarcoma of the ilium has been known closely to simulate an iliac aneurysm, or a similar tumour of the upper end of the humerus an aneurysm of the axillary artery. Careful examination will usually show that the pulsation of a sarcoma does not possess the strikingly expansile character of the pulsation of an aneurysm, nor does the tumour behave in the same way as an aneurysm when the main vessel above it is compressed. The pulsation is not so completely controlled, and the tumour does not diminish in size like an aneurysm, filling out again with bounding pulsations when the pressure on the vessel is removed. Occasionally a bruit may be audible in a vascular sarcoma. When a sarcoma becomes superficial the cutaneous veins are often enlarged and congested. As the surface of the tumour reaches the skin the latter becomes gradually thinned over it, and eventually, after assuming a bluish-red colour, ulcerates, and the tumour itself is exposed and at once commences to fungate through the opening as a soft vascular mass which discharges a thin blood-stained fluid. The mode of invasion of the skin by an underlying sarcoma may be con-