73 BACILLUS DIPHTHERIA succeeded in growing it in pure culture from a number of cases, and described its pathogenetic effects in animals. The organism is there- fore often referred to as the Klebs-Loffler bacillus. Following these earlier observations numerous investigations were carried out by Brieger and Frankel, Loffler, Roux and Yersin, and a number of other observers, which led to a general recognition of the organism. The researches of Roux and Yersin on the action of the toxins which they obtained from cultures definitely proved the specificity of the bacillus by showing that these substances produced the general phenomena of the disease in question, and notably in many cases grave paralyses. The bacillus is a rod-shaped organism, straight or slightly curved, of irregular outline, with swollen or pointed ends, and of very various size, measuring from about 2 yu, up to some 6 or 8 in length, by 0'3-0'5 jju wide. Involution forms appear very early in a growing culture, and show even greater variations in shape, including what have been described as clubs and pear-shaped forms of the bacterium. They may show so much fragmentation as to present the appearance of a row of streptococci. The organisms exhibit a marked tendency to assume a somewhat geometrical arrangement, which is frequently compared to Chinese writing ; at other times they may be found in groups, radiating from a centre like the ribs of a lady's fan. The bacillus is not motile, and has no flagella. It does not form spores. It stains readily with watery solutions of the ordinary basic aniline dyes, both in dried films and in wet preparations. The latter method of examination, which was originally proposed by Salomonsen, affords the most t}'3)ical picture of the organism as regards its varied shape, cross-banding, granulation, and so on. The bacillus is Gram-positive. By special staining methods (Neisser's stain for dried films, or, better, Bie's stain with a wet preparation) it is possible to demonstrate in the bacilli the so-called Ernst-Babes granules, two or three in number in each rod, which together with the other features of the micro- organism, are practically diagnostic of the dijshtheria bacillus. The bacillus is aerobic, and a facultative anaerobe. In bouillon the appearances may vary very greatly; thus, there may be a general turbidity, or a turbidity with distinct granulation, or granulation alone, the fluid remaining clear. There may be more or less deposit at the foot of the tube, and there may be a pellicle of variable thickness on the surface, whether the fluid beneath be clear or turbid. In gelatin the growth is very scanty, and there is no liquefaction of the medium. On the surface of agar there is a growth of small.