TREATMENT OF TETANUS 885 be gradually diminished. They sometimes cause an urticarial rash or a painful effusion into the joints. Excellent results are claimed for Bacelli's method of injecting 1 c.c. of a 5 per cent, aqueous solution of carbolic acid every two hours for many successive days, even in the presence of carboluria. General treatment.—After the necessary local treatment the ■ patient must be isolated in a darkened room and nursed in a manner least calculated to excite the spasms. Absolute quietude and freedom from external stimulation must be rigidly enforced. The food must be fluid or semi-solid, and highly nourishing. Nasal feeding is often necessary. The bowels are difficult to regulate, and 1 minim of croton oil may be required to produce an evacuation. Skilful nursing is necessary to prevent chafing and bed-sores. The mouth will need constant attention to cleanse it of sordes and the troubles attendant on dysphagia. A host of sedative drugs have been employed in attempts to con- trol the muscular excitability. Chloral hydrate, potassium bromide, chloroform, and mor^^hia are the most trustworthy sedatives. Curare, atropine, amyl nitrite, physostigmine, nicotine, aconite, cocaine, cannabis indica, and other drugs have also been tried, but with less effect. In conjunction with antitoxin, 10 to 20 gr. each of chloral and bromide may be given every four hours either by mouth or by rectum. Chloroform is often a necessity, but it is diflicult to time the moment of the spasms so that the best effect may be gained with a minimum dose ; and its prolonged use is distinctly depressing to the heart. When chloroform alone can relax the spasms the case is practically hopeless. The action of morphia is disappointing, and it has the dis- advantage of promoting the constipation. Sleep is promoted by the use of paraldehyde, and strength is maintained by as liberal a diet as possible. The treatment is purely empirical, and recurrence of the spasms has been noticed after its cessation ; still, it should be tried, especially if antitoxin is not available (Purves Stewart). Of other recent methods of treating tetanus the most noteworthy is the subarachnoid injection of sulphate of magnesia. Heinech and others have reported many recoveries attributed to this means.