512 TUMOURS tlie tumour. The nerve fibres themselves are more or less extensively destroyed by the infiltrating growth, and the function of the nerve correspondingly interfered with. In this respect the sarcoma contrasts with a simple tumour of a nerve trunk. From a study of recorded cases, Alexis Thomson finds that the malignancy of sarcoma of the nerve trunk of the limbs is very high, and that even after removal of a considerable part of the affected nerve trunk, together with the tumour, local recurrence, followed by metastases, has usually occurred. High amputation should, when practicable, be practised as early as possible. Reference has already been made to the supervention of sarcoma in cases of neuro-fibromatosis (p. .375). Sarcoma of the eye occurs in two chief forms—glioma of the retina and sarcoma of the uveal tract. Glioma of the retina always occurs in early life, and may arise independently in both eyes. According to Parsons, it is probable that in all cases the tumour is of congenital origin, and in two-thirds of the cases it is first noticed before the end of the third year of life. Tlie tumour, which originates most frequently in the inner layers of the retina, is white or gTeyish- white in colour, and may contain gritty spots due td calcareous deposit and pigmented areas resulting from haemorrhage. The growth causes early detachment of the retina, and at a later stage secondary glaucoma. It exhibits very marked local and general malignancy. After extending beyond the globe it spreads backwards along the optic nerve and into the orbital tissues. Secondary deposits are most common in the brain and lymphatic glands, but have also been found in the bones and viscera. Sarcoma of the uveal tract usually begins in the choroid, and much less frequently in the ciliary body or the iris. As a rule, the growth is pigmented, and the cell-elements spindle-shaped. The tumour is usually first recognized by the detachment of the retina which it causes, whilst later, like glioma, it occasions secondary glaucoma. Still later the tumour tends to extend through the sclerotic and to cause metastases, especially in the liver. In melanotic sarcoma of the uveal tract, unlike glioma of the retina, the lymphatic glands are very rarely affected. CARCINOMA A carcinoma is a malignant tumour arising in epithelium and characterized by a progressive invasion of the adjacent tissues by the epithelial cells. The only essential constituent of a carcinoma is the epithelium, whilst the stroma, which often forms a considerable part of the bulk of the tumour, is merely an expression of the reaction of