SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 68 is in any case extremely liigli, and in many statistics reaches even 80 per cent. Bacillus oedematis maligni (vibrion septique).-^ Tliis organism was discovered by Pasteur in 1877, and termed by him the vibrion se/ptique ; it was studied again by Koch in 1881, and by him renamed the bacillus of malignant cedema. He showed that it did not in fact produce a septicaemia in the living animal, as Pasteur thought, but was only to be found in the circulation after the animals had been dead for some time. It became of interest in the pathology of man in 1882, when Brieger and Ehrlich recorded two fatal cases of human infection following the hypodermic injection of a drug. Since that time a considerable number of cases have been recorded in the human subject. The bacillus is a rod-shaped spore-forming organism about 3 long by 1 yu. wide, with rounded ends, occurring singly or in chains of two or three, but frequently growing out into imdivided filaments of considerable length. It is feebly motile, and possesses numerous flagella which freqiiently are grouped together near one end, and project like a many-stranded whip-lash, or a sheaf of ribbon, from a staff. It produces spores which are roughly oval or egg-shaped, and are usually situated near the middle of the rod, though not uncommonly they may be found nearer one end. They are only present in the short rods, and are never seen in the long filaments. The spore distends the rod, altering its outline, so that it assumes a spindle-shaped or pear-shaped form. Sporing occurs not only in artificial cultures, but also in the oedematous exudation of infected individuals. The organism stains well with watery solutions of the ordinary basic aniline dyes. And the spores are readily stained by the usual method {see p. 41). The bacillus is Gram-positive, but it is somewhat easily decolorized. This fact may perhaps explain the divergence of opinion as to the Gram- reaction of this organism expressed by different observers. But if amyl-alcohol be used for differentiating instead of the ordinary ethyl- alcohol, a positive Gram-stain is always obtained. It seems probable, however, that under the name Bacillus oedematis maligni several nearly related organisms possessing similar characters and pathogenetic action have been grouped together, and to this fact are probably in part attributable the minor differences in the descriptions of various authors, and perhaps also the difference of opinion as regards Gram- staining. The bacillus is strictly anaerobic, and will only grow when oxygen is rigidly excluded. Culture media should be made with 2 per cent, of glucose, should be freshly heated before use, to drive out absorbed air, and should be kept in an atmosphere free from oxygen dm-ing cultivation.