3i6 CONSTITUTIONAL DISTURBANCES There are no drugs which are known to act specifically upon the blood-forming organs. First-aid treatment of primary arterial haemor- rhage.-—The wound should be thoroughly exposed and the thumb of one hand pressed firmly into it, pressure being made, if possible, directly on the spurting artery. This is frequently sufficient to stop the haemorrhage ; but if not, or if the vessel cannot be compressed in the wound, the thumb of the other hand should make firm pressure on the main artery supplying the area in which the wound is, nearer the heart than the womid, the artery being firmly compressed against an adjacent bone. Each of the main arteries has its special place where compression can be most readily and effectually carried out, and the most severe haemorrhage can usually be arrested temporarily in this way, exceptions being the very large arteries, such as the aorta or the innominate. Digital compression, as described above, will be found to be very tiring, and cannot be maintained for very long, so as quickly as pos- sible a tourniquet should be improvised and firmly secured round the limb above the bleeding-point, care being taken that it is sufficiently tight to arrest the arterial flow, and not merely to compress the veins and so increase the amount of blood lost. A tourniquet can only be left in position for about two hours, as a longer application than this causes danger of gangrene, and the pressm'e is usually very painful. Therefore it should be removed as soon as possible, the vessels being tied to prevent haemorrhage. Although the first indication in haemor- rhage is to arrest the bleeding, yet the rules of asepsis should not be entirely neglected, but should be carried out as well as circumstances will admit. Deliberate treatment of primary arterial haemor- rhage.—Three rules may be laid down as the prmciples on which primary arterial haemorrhage is treated :— 1. If the haemorrhage has stopped spontaneously, no further treatment is necessary. Of course, it must be understood that during the necessary routine cleansing of an accidental wound the haemorrhage may be restarted, and then the treatment laid down by the next two rules must be carried out. 2. Secure the bleeding artery in the wound.—The bleed- ing vessels should be secured with haemostatic forceps and ligatures applied, the woimd being enlarged, if necessary, to facilitate this opera- tion. Ligature of the artery in continuity, though sometimes easier than ligature of the bleeding-point, should not be done for several reasons : (1) The necessity of making a second woimd should be avoided, especi- ally as the operation is one of urgency, and it may be impossible to take full aseptic precautions ; (2) ligature of the main artery of a limb