34 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY D. TECHNIQUE Those methods and manipulations are here described which the surgeon should be prepared to carry out as a matter of routine in his own consulting- room or operating theatre. They include the manner of best obtaining material (pus, blood, etc.) for subsequent bacteriological investigation; the making and staining of films for microscopical examination ; and the method of making cultures. In addition to these, a brief account is given of the Widal reaction, of Wassermann's reaction in syphilis, and of the determina- tion of the opsonic index. A large amount of the material presented for examination to bacteriologists gives no result of value, and, indeed, could not be expected to give any informa- tion of importance, owing to lack of attention to the few elementary principles which require to be remembered in collecting and transmitting specimens for examination. It is, therefore, necessary to emphasize the observation of certain simple precautions in the handling of bacteriological material. GENERAL METHOD FOR COLLECTING FLUIDS TO BE EXAMINED Fluids must be collected without allowing the occurrence of external contamination, otherwise the subsequent examination will be entirely mis- leading. If small ciuantities will suffice, the most convenient method is to draw out short capillary tubes or spindle-shaped tubes from thin-walled glass tubing in a spirit-lamp or Bunsen burner. These are sterilized in the making, and when the fluid to be examined has been allowed to run into them the ends may be sealed up immediately. Where larger amounts are required, sterile test-tubes should be employed. The usual cotton-wool plug (of non-absorbent wool) suffices if the tube can be kept upright and at once carried to a laboratory. But for transmission sterilized rubber stoppers^ must be used instead of cotton-wool, to prevent leakage or evaporation of the fluid. If sterilized vessels are not available, a test-tube or small medicine-bottle and a suitable rubber stopper must bo sterilized by boiling for about 10 minutes, and then allowed to cool. This will ensure satisfactory results, except in the few rare cases where highly resistant spores happen to be present, as, for example, on unused and newly unpacked glass, wMch should therefore be avoided. The material to be examined should be dispatched as soon as possible, and should in the mean- time be kept in a cool place and not unnecessarily exposed to light. The quantity of fluid required for examination will depend to a great extent on the nature of the fluid, and on the micro-organisms to be sought for. A small quantity of pus, for example, will be sufficient for the discovery and identification of ordinary pyogenetic micro-organisms, while, on the other hand, in the case of uxine or a serous exudate, not less than 100 c.c. of fluid, at the least, should be available if the presence of B. tuberculosis is suspected. ^ If rubber stoppers are not available, freshly boiled corks may be used. These ought preferably to have been previously autoclaved. The boiling not only sterilizes the corks but also makes it easier to fit them into the tubes.