32 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY quantitative observations, with adequate controls, is always needed to give definite results. Bacteriolysins are produced by tbe inoculation of animals with tbe bodies of bacteria, whether living or dead, and are developed in the course of natural infections such as cholera, enteric fever, and the like. They cause disintegration of the bacterial cell. This action has been shown to depend upon the presence of two substances which work together, the one being of the nature of a specific antibody (immune body or amboceptor), the other the thermolabile non-sj)ecific substance already mentioned, called the complement, which is destroyed at a temperature of about 55° C. Bacteriolysis can only be produced cither in the animal body or in vitro when both these essential sub- stances are present. The injection into animals of alien red blood-corpuscles leads in a similar manner to the development of specific hajmolysins in which the same thermolabile non-specific complement, always present in the fresh blood-serum and other body fluids, unites in action with a spe- cific antibody to bring about the solution of the red blood-corpuscles in question. These hfemolysins, which are relatively easy of investi- gation, and whose action seems to be entirely comparable to that of the bacteriolysins, have been of the utmost value in assisting the eluci- dation of the phenomena of bacteriolysis. Bacteriolysis can be followed either in vitro, when it is necessary to suj^ply complement for the reaction as well as immune body, or in the peritoneal cavity of a living animal, in which case the com- plement needed is supplied by the normal peritoneal fluid of tlie animal itself. The intraperitoneal experiment in the guinea-pig was studied more particularly by Pfeiffer, and is generally known as Pfeifler's reaction. Besides its bearing on the general questions of immunity, it has great practical value in the dift'erential diagnosis between V. cholerce asiaticce and allied organisms. Following up the problems presented by the study of hfemolysis and bacteriolysis, it has been foimd possible to produce an anticom- plement by injecting alien normal serum into animals, and in some cases anti-immune-bodies have also been obtained. The study of anticomplement and the phenomenon of complement fixation " led indirectly to the discovery of the so-called Wassermann reaction for the diagnosis of syphilitic infection. This reaction depends on the prevention of the ha^molytic action of specific ha?mohi;ic immune body and complement by the serum of a syphilitic subject in the presence of an extract of syphilitic liver. In this reaction the liver extract represents the antigen and the syphilitic serum the specific syphilis antibody. When these are present together they take up and fix the complement which would otherwise produce hfemolysis