TERTIARY SYPHILIS 747 The testis (Plate 79).—Affections of tins organ consist of clironic hyperplastic processes of tlie body of the testis alone or of its cover- ings as well. Tliis lesion begins without inflammation or pain. The organ is uniformly enlarged, hard, firm, and less sensitive than in its normal state. There may be an accompanying hydrocele. The testicle may sometimes be found to contain indurated masses which form projections on its surface. The latter may coalesce and form a hard resistant mass which may remain for years, or may soften and break down and give rise to an abscess cavity. Treatment.—SjDccific treatment, of course, is necessary, and without it little can be attained locally. Strapping the testicle with mercurial plaster, and tapping a hydrocele when present, may be used as adjuvants. The circulatory system.—Lesions in the arterial system, inside or outside the cranium, are invariably present, and con- stitute the most important pathological element in all cases of syphilis—endarteritis, ^periarteritis, and endoperiarteritis all being constantly found, sometimes in the same subject. The arterial changes may, in rare cases, manifest themselves before the end of the first year, especially in the neighbourhood of the base of the brain ; but in the majority of cases they are delayed till after the third year, and often they do not give rise to symptoms till a much later period, when they may end in atheroma of the aorta, aneurysms, etc. Several types of syphilitic arteritis are recognized, the best-marked being the obliterative, in which the most advanced changes are seen in the inner coat of the vessel, constituting the condition known as " endarteritis obliterans." The intima is thickened, sometimes more on one side than the other ; the internal elastic lamina usually remains intact, but it may be absorbed ; the tunica adventitia is generally found infiltrated with round cells and the vasa vasorum thickened. The tunica media is sometimes also affected, and when this takes place the muscle cells are atrophied. The wall of the artery, being deprived of its elastic and muscular elements, offers less resistance to the blood pressure, bulging takes place, and an aneurysm is formed. Endarteritis obliterans is characterized by a proliferation of the intima and sometimes by small-celled infiltration of the media and adventitia. In gummatous periarteritis, nodular gummata, sometimes of considerable size, may develop in the adventitia. Thickening of the intima causes anfemia and weakness and diminution of function of the j^arts supplied by the vessel, varying in degree according to the amount of collateral circulation avail- able. Dizziness, and perhaps localized softening of the brain, will