870 GLANDERS nasal fossae ; necrosis of the septum, and disintegration of the soft parts of the nose and lips—any of these may be present as the sole evidence of the disease ; or, on the other hand, almost any combina- tion of them may coexist, or all in turn may figure in the clinical history of a case that spreads over, it may be, fifteen years, with intervals of weeks or months or years of freedom from overt signs. Diagnosis.—It will be evident that while the multiplicity of the lesions, when of simultaneous occurrence, offers assistance to diagnosis, the diversity of the clinical picture in individual instances of a gland- rous affection hinders recognition, and permits the true condition to be overlooked. The eruption has been mistaken for smallpox, varicella, impetigo, and herpes necrotica ; the general febrile state for typhoid, typhus, influenza, acute rheumatism, and pneumonia. The rash, which is irregularly distributed without regard to aspect, often comes out in crops over three or four days ; it may be sparse and scattered, or close-set; the vivid red or purplish areola often noted around the vesicles and pustules is said to be characteristic (Richer). The chronic lesions of the skin and mucous membranes may easily be confused with those of syphilis or tuberculosis, and even of lupus, actinomycosis, or leprosy. The possibility of glanders should always be borne in mind in any case in which a patient whose occupation is likely to bring him into contact with sick horses presents a chronic inflammatory lesion of the skin, of the oral or nasal mucosae, or an inflammatory mass in the subcutaneous or muscular tissues. The mallein test, commonly applied to horses, may also be used in man. Small doses are unreliable, and 10-15111 have been given in many instances, even in the non-glandrous, without untoward effects. In the affected there is slight local reaction ; the constitu- tional reaction is but little more than the pyrexia would account for ; a maximum rise of temperature to 105°, with an average of 103'5°, returning to normal in about forty-eight hours, may be expected (Chart 4). Tuberculin does not produce a reaction in the glandrous. The method of cutaneous vaccination (von Pirquet's) has been successfully applied with mallein (Zieler and Martel). Straus's test.—The most reliable, and in doubtful chronic cases the only reliable, diagnostic method is animal inoculation. An emul- sion of suspected tissue, injected into the subcutaneous layer of the abdominal wall or into the peritoneal cavity of a young male guinea-pig, produces in from two to fourteen days, according to the virulence of the strain, an acute orchitis with engorgement of the tunica vaginalis, from which, to establish the proof, the B. mallei should be recoverable.