CHRONIC URETHRITIS : TREATMENT 829 binations of silver, as protargol and argonin, have not the same value in the chronic that they have in the acute forms. Consequently, as a rule, the simple, freely diluted nitrate of silver (1-10,000 to 1-500) is to be preferred. Other solutions valuable at this stage of the disease are permanganate of potash (1-10,000 to 1-2,000), albargin (1-10,000 to 1-1,000), and sulphate of zinc (1-1,000 to 1-500). 3. Treatment of inveterate or circumscribed urethritis.— («) In the superficial form of this variety of urethritis, where the mucous membrane alone is involved and there is neither a narrowing of the urethra nor an extension of the inflammation to the prostate, a powerful astringent may be directly aj^plied to the affected spot, and to it only. There is no better instrument for this purpose than the endoscope. Having carefully exposed the inflamed area, a strong solution (1 per cent, to 10 per cent.) of nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper may be applied by means of a brush or small swab, all excess of fluid being carefully mopped up. Instead of the endoscope, Guyon's or Ultzmann's syringe may be used. In every case the instru- ment must be lubricated with glycerine, and not with oil. These strong astringent remedies should not be applied oftener than every second or third day. In the intervals the urethra may be irrigated by Janet's or Diday's method with a mild astringent fluid of permanganate of jootash or sulphate of zinc. Two golden rules are to be observed in the use of these injections : always begin with weak solutions, proceeding gradually to the stronger ones, and allow the reaction which follows the application to die completelv down before repeating the process. (b) Lastly may be considered that form of the disorder in which the inflammation has penetrated deeply into tlie tissues, producing an infiltration of the connective tissue. The aim here must be to induce absorption of the deep-seated induration by means of pressure and dilatation ; but the mucous membrane covering the deep indura- tion being inflamed, it also requires treatment, as explained in tlie two preceding sections. The value of dilatation of the urethra in assisting the absorption of an induration has long been recognized, but the mere occasional passage of a bougie, as usually practised, is wholly inadequate. To obtain the full benefit of the treatment, dilatation must be carried out on a rational and systematic plan. The earlier stages of dilata- tion are best effected by means of steel bougies, beginning with a low number and gradually passing on to the higher numbers. But the bougies in common use are not well suited to the purpose, as they are not sufliciently large, nor is their shape the most desirable. For dilating the anterior urethra, short, straight, cylindrical bougies are