SYMPTOMS OF CONGENITAL SYPHILIS 79 i Skin.—The skin lesions of congenital syphilis resemble those of the acquired form, namely, macular, papular, and pustular rashes. In both cases the rash affects the whole body, but in congenital syphilis shows a marked ijredilection for the palms of the hands and soles of the feet; so characteristic do some authors regard this that they state that papules found in these situations can be safely regarded as syphilitic, and their absence as evidence that an eruption is non- syphilitic. In spite of the commonly entertained opinion to the con- trary, a rash on the buttocks is not absolutely diagnostic of syphilis, being more usually due to the use of dirty napkins ; adjacent surfaces that rub against the buttocks—the backs of the thighs, the calves of the legs, and the heels—being similarly affected. The non-syjihilitic erythemas are always of a bright-red, inflam- matory colour, while the rashes of congenital syphilis have a marked brownish tint and are often very pronounced in the flexures, where, owing to continuous friction, the horny layer becomes rubbed off and tlie surface eroded. The presence of ulcers is also not necessarily in favour of syphi- lis, for the erythemas may become ulcerated, and sometimes deep, punched-out ulcers, resembling gummata, are fomid—the so-called ecthyma or vacciniform dermatitis. To avoid a wrong diagnosis, one should always bear in mind Kaposi's axiom, that a polymorphic skin eruption on a baby is diagnostic of congenital syphilis; for example, the presence of a macular rash on the face or other part of the body, and of a papular rash on the palms and soles, will go far to establish the syphilitic nature of a doubtful rash on the buttocks. Seborrhceic dermatitis is frequently mistaken for a syphilitic rash, but in the former the scalp is invariably dry and scurfy, and the mother is usually suffering from seborrhea (Adamsou). A congenital sypliilitic roseola is j^ractically unknown. The commonest congenital syphilide consists of macules distributed over the whole body, and well marked on the face and head. On the face the eruption is not infrequently orbicular. The papular syphilide affects chiefly the genitals, anus, palms of the hands, and soles of the feet, at the same time as the macular syphilide is present on the trunlc. The papules may coalesce and the surface become scaly or eroded ; the erosions or rhagades occurring at the corners of the mouth leave, after healing, those radial scars so suggestive of congenital syphilis. Linear scars are also found along the lower lip—a point of some importance, since rhagades at the corners may occur after any acute illness. Fissures are not infrequently found beside the nose and around the anus. Peeling of the palms is a useful diagnostic sign.