85 2 YAWS Morbid anatomy.—The lesions are those of a vascular sub- cutaneous granuioma. The skin overlying the growths is softened, and keratinization is imperfect. The epithelial scales and serous discharges form a crust, which is frequently sulphur-yellow in colour. Between this crust and the granuloma there is often some accumula- tion of a milky fluid. Clinical appearance.—The lesion appears first as a pimple, ■which rapidly increases in size until it is about as large as a threepenny bit; it is well raised above the surrounding skin or projects from the edge of the infected ulcer. Shortly afterwards other nodules form, usually on the face, the back, or the extensor aspect of the elbows. They may number only three or four, or they may be very numerous (Fig. 229). Successive crops develop, the older ones subsiding, until gra- dually the newly formed yaws become more scanty and finally cease to appear. The later ones are often formed under the thick epidermis of the palms or soles, and in such situations are known as " crab yaws." These are very painful. Secondary ulceration, either Fig. 229.—Case of yaws. superficial or deep, of the (jo,„-nai nf Tropical Mcdkine.) granuloma may occur, but is exceptional. In parts subjected to friction or to constant movement, as at the angle of the mouth, secondary ulceration is more common. Differential diagnosis.—At the commencement of the general eruption there may be considerable fever, and pains in the back and loins, so that when the eruption first appears it may for a day or two be confounded with variola. After the first few days the disease may be confused with various cutaneous s^jfliilides. From rupia it can be readily distinguished by the uniformity of the scabs, their yellow colour, and by the fact that by removal of one, instead of a deep ulcerated surface a raised mass of pink granulation tissue may be exposed. From the rare fram- boesial syphilide it may be impossible to distinguish a case of yaws on a single examination. The past history and the future progress of the case will distinguish the two diseases in most cases. Taking the history of a case of yaws, one of the most striking