7/8 SALVARSAN IN TREATMENT. OF SYPHILIS In cases of parasyphilis not so much can be hoped from the administration of salvarsan. In very early cases of tabes the light- ning pains have vanished, the patellar reflex has returned, and the sensory changes, particularly those affecting the feet, have disap- peared. In a few cases of general paralysis the injection has been followed by temporary improvement. On the other hand, in some parasyphihtics the symptoms have become more pronounced after the administration of the remedy. Possibly some of the good effects in parasyphihs have been due to its influence on the syphilitic lesions which form a part of the changes in so many of these cases, as well as to its stimulating effect on nerve tissue. Naturally, it cannot be expected to restore degenerated nerve tissue. As will be mentioned later, it is contra-indicated in late cases of parasy^ahihs. In addition to the above specific effects of salvarsan, it stimulates the body tissues, so that ulcers heal more rapidly than is usual with these lesions. The feeling of well-being wliich follows the injection has been mentioned by numerous writers on the subject. The patient frequently gains greatly in weight, an increase of 20 lb. in three weeks- being not uncommon in a previously cachectic patient. Untoward effects ascribed to salvarsan.—The highest mortality attributed to salvarsan which we have been able to find by a search through the literature on about 40,000 cases is less than 1 per 1,000. It is extremely unlikely that the figure is higher than this, because in deahng with a new remedy there is, as a rule, no lack of zeal in publishing accounts of its untoward effects. When it is remembered that this is based on the deaths which have fol- lowed the injection in the most hopeless cases—in infants suffering from the severest forms of congenital syphilis, in advanced cases of disease of the central nervous system, and in cases with grave disease of the cardio-vascular system, as well as in others where the contra-indications on which Bhrlich laid particular stress in the beginning were totally disregarded—^it does not appear that there is much to fear from the use of this remedy in suitable cases. In fact, we have only been able to find the record of one case in which death followed the injection into what appeared to be a suitable subject, and the teclmique was strictly proper ; and it is probably no exaggeration to say that it must have been given at least 500,000 times by now. Of other untoward effects which have been attributed to it, paralysis of the auditory nerve has been proved to be due to a local focus of treponemata, and not to the drug ; wliile in regard to optic neuritis, Ehrlich says (" Experimental Chemo-Therapy of Spirillosis ") : "I have not had a single case of blindness reported to me, and, despite penetrating research, it has not been possible for me to run one of these rumoured cases to earth." Finger has recently