248 WOUNDS AND WOUND TREATMENT days. The enormous advances due to the recognition and the appli- cation to surgery of the work of Pasteur and other investigators of the germ theory of disease, and to the adoption of Lister's methods, are a matter of common knowledge. Lister's methods implied the free use of powerful antiseptics designed to kill or inhibit the growth of infective organisms. To a certain extent these chemicals, necessarily irritant, are still in everyday use, but experience has now taught us (1) that some of these lotions (e.g. perchloride of mercury) are comparatively inefficient in the body owing to their interaction with its proteins, and (2) that owing to their irritant character they devitalize and lower the resist- ance of the normal tissues to infection. There is now a general tendency, therefore, to adopt measures to exclude micro-organisms by the thorough thermal sterilization of all material brought into contact, directly or indirectly, with the tissues, and to limit the use of antiseptics to disinfection, so far as is possible, of the skin of the surgeon and of the patient. Even here, in the practice of many surgeons, these chemicals are relegated to a secondary position as compared with thorough cleansing Avith soap and water. Surgeons of the " antiseptic" school trust mainly to chemical methods, whilst those of the " aseptic " prefer to rely chiefly upon mechanical and thermal means of sterihzation. Basis.—The general principle underlying modern surgical technique is that all infection of wounds is derived from without, it being imder- stood that " without " must be taken to include almost all the mucous cavities as well as the external surface of the body. Technical details are planned on the hypothesis that normal unexposed tissues are sterile, and that therefore in practice auto-infection occurs so rarely as to be negligible. Among the extraneous potential sources of infection are included all materials that may be brought into contact in any way with the wound or its surroundings. Sources of infection.—It is advisable at this point to consider briefly the common paths of infection in a case not previously infected. L The skin of the patient, and of the surgeon and his assistants, is probably at once the most prolific cause of defilement, and the one most difficult to deal with, owing to the inaccessibility of the numerous organisms that habitually infest the fissures, hair-follicles and glandular openings, and the obvious impracticability of thermal sterilization. It must be confessed that ideal surgical cleanliness of the skin has not yet been attained. 2. The clothing of the patient, and also that of the surgeon