LOCAL ANAESTHESIA 684 The perineural method is best illustrated by the anaesthesia pro- duced in the hand by injections of the solution in a ring around the wrist, especial care being taken to infiltrate the tissues around the median and ulnar nerves. There is some advantage in using stronger solutions of y8-eucaine or novocaine when attempting perineural injec- tions ; they may be double the strength used in infiltration anaesthesia without any risk of poisoning, seeing that less will be needed than when a large area of operation is soaked with the drug. While the possibility of the production of a pure regional anaes- thesia has been clearly demonstrated, its use has remained very limited. In the lower limbs it has been replaced by spinal analgesia, which is much simpler and, if carefully carried out, equally safe. The need of local anaesthesia for certain cases in the upper limb still remains, and the perineural and endoneural injections are a valuable means of producing it. 4. Yenous anaesthesia.—This procedure was introduced by Bier, and is employable only on the extremities. The extremity is first rendered bloodless by the application of an elastic bandage from below upwards ; this is then imwound except for the upper two or three turns, which should lie a little above the field of operation. The part below the latter is then enveloped with another elastic bandage, so that there is a bloodless area between the two bandages. In this area a vein is selected closer to the proximal than to the distal bandage and is exposed under infiltration anaesthesia. A cannula is introduced, directed peripherally, into the vein, and 20 c.c. to 60 c.c. of a 1 per cent, solution of novocaine in isotonic salt solution is injected. As a rule, the fluid flows in with ease ; but occasionally, probably from the presence of valves, it refuses to enter. After a suc- cessful injection, antesthesia supervenes in the area between the two bandages (" direct anaesthesia ") in about five minutes, and in the distal portion of the limb (" indirect anaesthesia ") very soon after- M^ards. Bier advised that at the completion of the operation saline solution should be introduced into the vein so as to remove the drug from the part and thus prevent its sudden entry into the general circulation. On removal of the bandage, the anaesthesia disappears almost immediately ; therefore it is advisable to loosen the bandage momen- tarily to pick up the larger vessels, and then to reapply it quickly before sensation returns, so that there may be no pain during the suturing of the wound. The operation can, as a rule, be conducted in the area of direct or indirect anaesthesia, and amputations through the thigh, excisions of the elbow-joint, and similar procedures have been successfully per- formed under ana?sthesia procured by this means.