437 ADENOMA Fig. 96.- Colloid adenoma of thyroid, in section. is not uncommon, and a cystic adenoma may undergo a rapid increase in size as the result of hsemorrhage into it. Colloid adenomas may be single or multiple, and, especially when multiple, arc often associated with a varying degree of general paren- chymatous enlargement. It is indeed doubtful whether in such cases the multiple adenomas should be regarded as true tumours, or as masses of glandular tissue which have gradu- ally become isolated and encapsuled. The removal of a single adenoma by enucleation is usually a satisfactory method of treatment, but when the tumours are multiple and associated with diffuse enlargement of the gland, partial exci- sion is often necessary. Adenoma of the stomach and intes- tines.—Adenomas of the gastric and intestinal mucous membrane, although at first sessile, tend, like all simple tumours of these parts, gradually to become pedunculated, and tluis form one variety of simple polypus. They have a glandular structure corresponding to that of the part in which they arise, and frequently present a more or less jiaj^illary surface, so that it is difficult to draw a sharp hne of distinction between the adenomas and papillomas. Adenoma of the stomach is rare. The tumour usually occurs in the region of the pylorus, and Mayo Robson and Moynihan quote cases in which an adenoma has been successfully removed for the relief of pyloric obstruction. When the growth is sufficiently large to form an abdominal tumour, the latter is characterized by its extreme mobility. Adenoma of the intestine is also not common, and its practical importance chiefly concerns its tendency, like other simple tumours of the bowel, to occasion intussusception. In the case of a woman recently in University College Hospital, a pedunculated adenoma was removed from the sigmoid colon. The only symptom was rectal haemorrhage, and a tumour Avhich could be felt in the abdomen was suspected to be a malignant growth in the large intestine. An exploratory operation proved the abdominal tumour to be the mis- placed left kidney, lying at the pelvic brim. In the sigmoid colon a round tumour was felt, which could be moved along the bowel for