ANTHRAX 894 the process of preparation. It is thus especially common in districts such as Eotherhithe and Berniondsey, which are centres of the leather trade. Malignant pustule rarely occurs in women. In a series of 100 cases admitted into Guy's Hospital during the past fourteen years, only two occurred in women, while there were three instances in children. One of these was that of a girl of 11, whose mother was employed as a brushmaker; another, a boy whose father was a waterside labourer; the third, a boy who had been playing in a tan-yard and had made for himself a moustache of goat-hair which was responsible for a lesion on his lip. The occupations of the remaining 95 patients were as follows : Waterside labourers and porters working with raw hides 58, tanners and leather dressers 12, carmen 5, brushmakers 4, greengrocers 3, plasterers 2, horsehair- workers 2, butchers 2, milkman 1, provision merchant 1, bookbinder 1, horsekeeper 1, occupation not stated 3. Two of the patients had previously been treated for a malignant pustule, while two inde- pendent pustules were present in another. The lesion is usually situated on some exposed part of the skin, generally the face or neck. In the above series of cases the pustule was situated on the face in 48 patients, on the neck in 41, the forearm or hand in 8, the arm in 2, and the knee in 1. Morbid anatomy.—Post-mortem appearances vary consider- ably. Usually there are extensive oedema and induration around the primary lesion. If it is situated in the neck there may. be oedema of the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, fauces, and pharynx, as well as of the glottis. The stomach may be oedematous and show extensive hajmor- rhages in the submucous coat. It is more usual to find a number of small petechise with or without superficial ulceration of the overlying mucous membrane. Similar lesions occur in the intestine, more com- monly in the jejunum, though sometimes in the ileum or colon. Small superficial ulcers, about J inch in diameter, with a grey or black centre surrounded by a ring of hyperjemia, may also be foimd. The lungs are oedematous and congested, and may show haemor- rhages either into their substance or beneath the pleura. The meninges are congested, and there are frequently extensive haemorrhages in the subarachnoid space. Small haemorrhages into the brain sub- stance may also be present. In a case in which right-sided convul- sions occurred there was a haemorrhage in the left corpus striatum. Nephritis may be found in patients who have had albuminuria. Effusions of fluid, clear or blood-stained, may be met with in the pleura, pericardium, or peritoneum. These contain the anthrax bacillus, which is also found in the various haemorrhagic lesions, and indeed in any organ or tissue of the body.