REPAIR 148 solely ou the situation and the nature of the tissue to be repaired, the fundamental phenomena being identical in both cases. It will be convenient, therefore, to deal in the first place with the essential j^rocesses, such as are seen in the healing of an incised wound of the skin and subcutaneous tissues, and later to discuss the varia- tions which occur in connexion with the repair of special tissues. ESSENTIAL PROCESSES OF HEALING 1. The healing process as seen in an incised wound of the skin and subcutaneous tissues, where the wound is not thoroughly aseptic and where the suiiaces are not accu- rately in apposition: healing by second intention. During the first tivelve hours the margins of the wound are red and slightly swollen, these changes being due to the dilatation of the minute vessels—an early result of the reactive phenomena—and to the infiltration of the tissues with inflammatory lymph which has exuded from these vessels. At the same time the surfaces become glued together by blood and by the coagulated lymph. Leucocyte emigration is also well marked at this stage, the leucocytes, mainly of the polymorphonuclear type, passing both into the lymph and into the tissues at the margins of the wound. In tiventy-four hours all these changes become more marked, and the endothelial cells lining the blood-vessels, as well as the fixed con- nective-tissue corpuscles, show swelling and distinct proliferative changes. In from thirty to thirty-six hours after the wound has been inflicted vascular buds are given off from the minute vessels at the periphery. These buds, which are conical in shape, consist at first of solid masses of protoplasm containing nuclei. This protoplasm segments into irregular masses, the nuclei undergo division, and thus are formed endotheUal cells, each of which contains usually a single nucleus. The newly formed endothelial cells separate from one another, and so open up new channels continuous with the lumen of the vessel from which the bud originated. From the distal end of these buds, long, irregular, protoplasmic processes grow out into the coagulated lymph and blood, and there anastomose with one another. Eventually these protoplasmic processes, together with the branches which they give oft', open up in the same manner as the parent bud from which they arose, and by this process there is formed in the coagulated lymph an irregular network of vascular channels, lined by endothelial cells and communicating with one another and with the original vessels of the part. This capillary network may be present within tliirty-six hours, and abundant evidence may be seen of the swelling and the mitosis of the endothelium ot the developing