685 VENOUS ANESTHESIA While generally applicable, tliis method of inducing analgesia has several disadvantages. Firstly, it may fail owing to the presence of valves hindering the entrance of the solution. Secondly, the tightly ajjplied upper bandage is sometimes very painful ; this objection, according to Momburg, may be overcome by placing another bandage directly below the proximal one as soon as the anaesthesia is complete, and then removing the first bandage. Thirdly, the rapid disappear- ance of the anaesthesia does not allow a completely painless finish to the operation if the wound is to be sewn up, since the reactive hypereemia following the anremia which has been produced gives rise to marked hciemorrhage. The method has not been in use suffi- ciently long to permit a definite opinion as to its ultimate usefulness. Local injection of drugs into arteries supplying the extremities has been tried experimentally on dogs, but has not been used on the human subject. It is impossible here to give a complete description of the tech- nique for the local ana^sthetization of all the areas of the body by the various methods described, but it may be said that the method of local infiltration combined with an attempt to inject around the nerves going to the part is the most generally applicable. Only a few of the more important pcints in the anaesthetizing of the various regions need be considered. While certain parts of the body are more or less insensitive to pain- ful stimuli, others are especially sensitive, e.g. the parietal peritoneum and the periosteum. It must be clearly understood that violent pull- ing or dragging always causes pain, no matter how well the area of the operation has been infiltrated, probably owing to the fact that the dragging is commmiicated to the non-anaesthetized tissues ; there- fore tlie operation must not lie rout^lily performed. Application in special cases.—While the visceral portion of the feritoneuiii is insensitive to the ordinary painful stimuli, such as pinching, cutting, etc., considerable pain and shock are caused by dragging, probal)ly due to communication of the pull to the very sensitive parietal layer. In view of this fact, and of the difficulty of infiltrating the subperitoneal tissue from a pmicture in tlie skin, it is almost always necessary to inject the solution into it after the incLsion has been carried through the muscles. Thus, in operating on an inguinal hernia, though it is sometimes possible to pass the long, blunt needle through the external ring up the canal and to infiltrate around the nec]<: of the sac, in a large number of cases it is necessary to inject the solution here after the canal has been opened up, before pulling down the neck of the sac previously to tying it off. In incisions in tlie middle line of the abdomen the solution can