ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES 6S7 Circumcision is another operation which is conveniently performed under local antesthesia. The injection is best made in a ring round the penis just behind the level of the corona, so tliat the junction of the inner layer of the prepuce with the gians is rendered insensitive, tliis being the most difficult place to angesthetize. The method of infiltrating a ring of tissue at the base of the penis, with especial attention to a perineural injection of the dorsal nerve, is not nearly so certain or so satisfactory. Advantages of local analgesia.—1. It obviates the use of a general an;esthetic, with the attendant dangers, whether of immediate death during operation, or of the remoter and less dramatic fatal accidents, such as pneumonia or postchloroform toxaemia. It must be remembered that although these fatalities are more common in greatly enfeebled patients, they are only too familiar in quite trivial operations. 2. Local analgesia renders unnecessary the j^resence of an anies- thetist, and is therefore invaluable to surgeons working without efficient assistance. Disadvantages.—1. Owing to the fact that it is sometimes im- possible beforehand to gauge the exact extent of the operation, the surgeon may, in his desire to spare the patient pain, be driven either to do his work less thoroughly than he should do, or to interrupt it for the purpose of making a fresh injection. 2. This method is unsatisfactory when the part to be infiltrated is inflamed. 3. There is slightly more pain after infiltration analgesia than after a general anajsthetic, but this is so slight an objection that it is doubtfid whether it should be considered at all, and certainly Jiot if there is any reason for not employing the latter. BIBLIOGRAPHY Barker, A. E., Brit. 2Icd. Journ., Dec. 29, 1904. Bier, A., Bed. klin. Woch., 1909, No. 11. Braun, H., Die Lokalanasthesic, ihre wis.senscJiaftlichen Orundld'jen und praliische Ainvcndung. 1907. Momburg, Zentralhl. /. Chir., 1909, p. 1413. Oppel, Eusski Wratsch. 1909. No. 19. Oppel, Zentralhl. f. Chir., 1909, p. 1017.