598 TUMOURS cysts in teratomas of the testicle (p. 588). Bland-Sutton refers to a dermoid cyst containing sebaceous matter and hair, which he removed from the labium, and cysts lined with stratified squamous epithelium are occasionally found in the lower part of the vagina. Cysts of epidermic structure, and throwing an interesting light on the mode of formation of congenital dermoids, are sometimes met with as the result of injury, usually a punctured wound, and evidently caused by the displacement of a fragment of living sidn into the deeper tissues. Such cysts are called im/plantation cysts or traumatic dermoids. They rarely reach a large size, and have been foimd most frequently on the palmar surface of the fingers, where punctured wounds are common. Similar cysts have been met with in the iris and cornea. Another striking illustration of dermoid cysts arising by accidental implantation is sometimes seen in the formation of small cysts of this nature which may occur on the peritoneum as the result of the rupture of an ovarian dermoid. Dentigerous cysts.—A cyst is occasionally found in the mandible, and much more rarely in the maxilla, in the wall of which a more or less jDerfectly developed tooth is present. Such a cyst is occasionally laiown as a follicular odontonie because it is supposed to arise fi-om cystic enlargement of the tooth-follicle (p. 398). It usually occurs in connexion with a tooth of the permanent set, most commonly a molar, but occasionally the tooth in the cyst is supernumerary. The cyst as it increases causes expansion of the mandible, and eventually the bony shell may become so thin as to yield on pressure with the finger, and give the sensation of eggshell-crackling. The diagnosis of a dentigerous cyst from other central tumours of the mandible is usually suggested by the absence of one of the teeth in the position of the enlargement, and may be much assisted by radiography. Many instances of cysts arising from vestigial structures occur in different organs, and only need mention here. Thus, the parovarian cyst in the broad hgament undoubtedly arises in the remains of the Wolffian body and duct; certain vaginal cysts are supposed to arise from the duct of Gartner or from diverticula of the Miillerian duct; cystic disease of the kidneys and liver is believed to be due to dilatation of rudimentary tubules in the organs ; whilst certain cysts of the testicle (encysted hydrocele of the epididymis) are supposed to arise in vestigial structures representing remains of the Miillerian duct or vasa aberrant!a. 4. Parasitic cysts.—The only form of parasitic cyst that is common in the human subject is that which occurs as the hydatid form of the Tcenia echinococcus, the tapeworm of the dog, and is Imown as the hydatid cyst.