SUPPURATION 192 difierent parts ; it is employed where bandaging is impossible, as in pelvic and surface lesions. Suction is applied to the lesion itself. (c) Hot air can be applied by means of hot-air chambers at a temperature of 200° to 250° F., or a part may be douched with hot air. This is the form of treatment by means of which active hyperfemia is induced. By many surgeons it is regarded as dangerous in tuber- culous lesions. In the li}q3er£emic treatment early diagnosis is essential, for it is regarded as abortive, as well as palhative and curative. General principles of antisepsis should be rigidly adhered to. Prolonged rest is not essential. Carbuncles, boils, abscesses, empyema, infected wounds, mastitis, synovitis, tuberculosis, and osteo-myelitis are all fit diseases for its application. Special parts require special methods of appUcation with regard to rest, length of time, extra surgical inter- ference, and so forth. iii. Operative.—Directly the presence of pus is determined the abscess should be opened. All the steps should be taken which are commonly adopted in ordinary sterilization of the hands of the operator, skin of patient, instruments, etc. The fact that the surgeon is dealing with a case in which infection is present affords no reason for relaxing his endeavours to keep out other infective agents. The site usually selected for the incision is that part of the abscess where the skin is thinnest, i.e. where the abscess is " pointing." The direction of the incision should be parallel to important vessels, nerves, and ducts, to avoid wounding them. The length of the incision must be sufficient to admit a small sponge, wrung as dry as possible from a solution of perchloride of mercury (1-2,000) or other antiseptic, to break down septa that may separate recesses from the main cavity, and to remove as much of the necrotic tissue as may be detached easily from the inside of the lesion. If a finger be introduced into the cavity to break down the septa, the surgeon should wear an india- rubber glove, in justice to his other cases. The question of drainage is discussed below. Rest and splinting should be continued, and the parts should be dressed with gauze, or the hot fomentations can be continued if pain is severe. The abscess will usually recover completely and rapidly ; but if it do not, antitoxin, vaccine, and Bier's hyperaemic treatment should be adopted as the symptoms and position of the abscess indicate. In carbuncle there is so much necrotic tissue that an incision is not enough to evacuate the contents ; hence complete and wide excision is the best treatment. Some surgeons prefer to incise the carbuncle and scrape away the necrotic tissue with a sharp spoon, or to remove it gradually by repeated suction by one of Bier's sterilized dry cups. Removal by means of a sharp spoon is the shorter and more efficacious