TUMOURS 380 Hospital is a remarkable specimen of a pi\re intracystic fibroma, a large cyst being filled with deeply cleft lobulated masses attached by slender pedicles to the cyst-wall. Although the lobules of the tumour have an epithelial covering, there is no glandular tissue in its substance. Fibromas of the ovary appear in the early stage as small encapsuled nodules in the substance of the gland. They may, however, reach a size larger than that of a child's head, and, as they increase, the ovarian tissue is stretched over them. In the Museum of University College Hospital are two specimens of fibroma of the penis. In one of these the tumour appears to have originated in the fibrous sheath of the corpora cavernosa immediately behind the glans, and in the other the growth, evidently stai-ting in the region of the corona, has involved the adjacent parts of the glans and body of the penis. Small fibrous tumours occur, especially in the medullary region of the kidney, but are of no importance surgically. MYXOMA A myxoma is a tumour composed of a peculiarly transformed connective tissue, similar to that which is present normally in the Wha,rton's jelly of the umbilical cord and in the vitreous body of the eye. In such gelatinous tissue the connective-tissue cells are branched, and by the union of the processes a delicate reticulum is formed, the meshes of which are occupied by a mucinous fluid (Fig. 54). A tumour of this structure has a soft, jelly-like consistence, and in the fresh state ropy mucus can be squeezed from the cut surface. A pure myxoma is undoubtedly very rare, although myxomatous tissue is not an uncommon constituent of tumours of mixed structure. Thus certain soft fibromas met with in the subcutaneous tissue, and in connexion with nerves, often present in parts the structm-e above described. Sarcomas, endothehomas, and chondromas not infrequently illustrate the same point. Before, therefore, finally deciding that a given tumour is a myxoma, it is necessary to submit it to a care- ful microscopic examination, and certainly not to depend upon the mere fact that the tumour has a more or less jelly-hke appear- ance. Cartilaginous tumours, particularly in certain .situations, are liable to undergo a form of mucous softening of the matrix which gives the growth, in parts at least, a close resemblance to a myxoma. It is further neces.sary to remember that certain new formations of inflammatory origin may closely resemble a myxomatous growth. This is especially true of the simple nasal polypus, which was at one time described as a tumour ; but this view of its nature is clearly erro- neous. Although a nasal polypus consists chiefly of a soft, jelly-hke