TERTIARY SYPHILIS 749 symptoms, such as headaches, numbness, and transient paresis of ocular muscles. Sensation is generally unimpaired, and there may or may not be associated mental disorder. The spinal cord undergoes changes similar to those seen in the brain, and often associated with tliem. The lesions are not restricted to any special tract or region, but are irregularly distributed. The membranes and the posterior columns are, however, the favourite sites. The sijmptoms of spinal syphilis vary much, owing to the irregular distribution of the lesions, and consist chiefly of pain along the spine, and of girdle-pain, accompanied by motor, sensory, and trophic symptoms. Later on paraplegia sets in, with affections of the bladder and rectum. The principal tertiary s}^)hilitic lesions of the spinal system are meningitis, myelitis, and meningo-myelitis. Meningitis is very often an early affection. Myelitis may be acute or chronic ; the former sets in suddenly with acute and severe pain somewhere about the dorso-lumbar region, followed in a few days by paraplegia, both lower limbs being totally paralysed, and a fatal termination very often is the result. Chronic myelitis is the commonest S3'philitic affection of the cord, and commences with sensations of numbness and tingling of the feet, followed after a long period by affections of the bladder and rectum. Sometimes incontinence takes place ; at others retention is the rule. The disease is slow in its progress, but eventually the lower limbs become partially paralysed ; knee-jerks are irregular, being more marked on one side than the other ; and there may be anaesthesia or hyperaesthesia in irregular patches. Cramps in the legs are also, as a rule, a great trouble. The disease may be arrested in its progress, but such cases are rare, the majority of patients, in the absence of early treatment, becoming hopeless paralytics. Leucocytosis of the cerebro-spinai fluid.—Widal and Ravant discovered that lympliocvtosis of the cerebro-sjiinal fluid always accompanies organic disease of the nervous system, more ■especially tuberculous and syphilitic meningitis, as well as tabes and general paralysis, but that it is absent in functional diseases. Hence they advocate liunbar puncture in all cases of syj)liilis with nervous symptoms, the presence of lymphocytosis being an indication for ener- getic treatment. Undoubtedly this is a valuable means of diagnosis. Treatment of cerebro-spinai syphilis.—Treatment must be commenced as soon as the diagnosis has been made. To be of use, treatment must be of an intensive character, mercury being, as usual, our sheet anchor. By far the best form of administration in these cases is by calomel injections. Oral administration under such •conditions is practically useless. Failing calomel injections, inunction •a VAix (Aix-la-Chapelle) is the best. I have seen many cases of