TUMOURS may reach a large size and prove fatal by obstruction of the ureters. In the uterus and vagina, sarcoma in early hfe may also assume a similar myxomatous and polypoid form, and the disease is likely to involve the bladder wall and eventually extend into the interior of the viscus in forms similar to those of the primary vesical growths. Among 26 cases of sarcoma of the vagina in children, collected by D'Arcy Power, the wall of the bladder was involved in 10. Sarcoma of the prostate is also not very rare in early life, and, like the similar tumours beginning in the other pelvic viscera, may form a tumour of large size projecting upwards above the pubes. Sarcomas of these organs in children thus form a definite group characterized by the tendency of the growth to become polj^joid and myxomatous. The disease appears usually to originate in the sub- mucous tissue, although in the case of the prostate the growth may probably begin in the fibrous capsule of the gland, and in some tumours the origin appears to be rather in the pelvic cellular tissue than in the viscera themselves. Further reference is hardly necessary to primary sarcoma of the bladder, prostate, and vagina in adults, the disease not being common in any of these situations. In the adult uterus sarcoma may occur in several forms. In one variety it appears as a fungating mass projecting into the uterine cavity and tending to become polypoid, and even extending into the vagina, whilst in other cases the tumour extensively infiltrates the uterine wall and may extend through its whole tliiclaiess so as to form nodular projections beneath the peritoneum. Sarcoma of the uterus may also occur as a malignant transformation of a fibro-myoma. To the naked eye the change may not be striking, but sometimes the charac- teristic appearance of the simple tumour gives place to a more homo- geneous and waxy appearance. Microscopically the elongated muscle cells are found to be separated by sarcoma cells—oval, spindle-shaped or multinucleated. A rare variety of sarcoma of the xiterus is the grape-like form in which the cervix is distended by polypoid masses that may project into the vagina and even infiltrate its wall. Tliis form corresponds with that sometimes occurring in young children, which has been already mentioned. True sarcoma of the breast is rare, and statistical state- ments on the subject have in the past been rendered, to a large extent, valueless by the inclusion among the sarcomas of those softer, more rapidly growing forms of fibro-adenoma under the name of adeno- sarcoma. The name must be reserved for malignant connective- tissue tumours in the growth of which the glandular elements take no part.