ETHER—NITROUS-OXIDE 665 By preceding ether with nitrous-oxide, anaesthesia can be in- duced without the uni^leasantness of ether vapour becoming apparent to the patient. Tlie procedure is best executed by the apparatus and the manceuvres just described, with sliglit modification. Tims the small bag is not used at first, but is replaced by that figured in Fig. 184, which is connected with a cylinder of nitrous-oxide. No ether is poured into the reservoir until the patient has inhaled six breaths of nitrous- oxide. During this time the expirations are allowed to escape by the expiratory valve shown in Fig. 184. This is then closed, and witli- out moving the face-piece the stopper of the ether reservoir is removed, 1^ oz. of ether is inserted, and the stopper replaced. The indicator is then moved as in the administration of etlier alone, so tliat the patient will be breathing to and fro an atmosphere of nitrous-oxide with con- stantly increasing additions of ether vapour. When the point -| is reached, the gas bag is replaced by the small bag and anfesthesia maintained as with ether alone. When it is desired to precede ether with ethyl-chloride a small bag must be used, fitted with a tap (Fig. 187). This bag is fitted on to the top of the ether reservoir, and the administration is started ■exactly as described on p. 670. After the fourth breath the neces- sary ether is inserted and the indicator rapidly pushed along, so that an ether anaesthesia supervenes upon that of ethyl-chloride without any interval of consciousness. As soon as stertor arises the small bag should be lifted off during three breaths, and squeezed free of any ethyl-chloride vapour within it. It is then placed on again during the expiration, and the administration goes on as in the case of ether only. Ether is sometimes administered by what is known as the semi- closed method. For this purpose inhalers such as those of Allis or Rendle are employed, whereby air supply is to some extent restricted, the strength of the vapour supplied being graduated only by the vary- ing proximity of the inhaler to the face. In our opinion this method never has any advantage over one of those just described. NITROUS-OXIDE At ordinary pressure and temperature nitrous-oxide is a colourless gas with sweetish odour and taste. It is supplied in tlie liquid form within strong cylinders under a pressure of 50 atmospheres. Fifteen ounces of the liquid furnish -50 gallons of the gas, and if the cylinders are securely jointed the liquid will keep for an indefinite period. Intense cold accompanies the conversion of the liquid into gas, therefore care must be taken not to liberate it too fast from the cylinders lest freez- ing occur about the joint. After using a cylinder the liberating screw