LOCAL ANESTHESIA 682 larger nerve-trunks, tlie weaker when large areas liave to be injected with the solution. For ordinary work one solution is usually suffi- cient, and the method described by Barker is very satisfactory. To 100 c.c. of distilled water in an active state of ebullition in a flask (of Jena glass, so as to avoid the destruction of the drug by the alkali) a powder is added consisting of ^-eucaine 0^2 grm., sodium chloride 0'8 grm. As soon as the powder has dissolved, the solution is allowed to cool; then 10 drops of adrenalin solution (1 in 1,000—Parke- Davis) are added, and the mixture is ready for use. It is very impor- tant that, to prevent destruction of the eucaine, the liquid should not come into contact with alkali, and also that, to avoid its oxidation, as indicated by a reddish discoloration of the fluid, the adrenalin should be added immediately before use. Such an amount, i.e. 100 c.c, usually suffices for most operations, but, if necessary, more may be given without any fear of toxic effects ; the solution is isotonic, and therefore will not damage the tissues by osmotic changes. Preparation of the patient.—As a rule, the patient need not be starved ; but if there is any reason to suppose that the local anaesthesia will be insufficient and a general anaesthetic required, preparation for the latter should be made. In nervous patients it is advisable to give an injection of morphia about fifteen minutes before the operation. The patient should always be in the recumbent position, since the psychical effect of the operation occasionally brings about a faint- ing attack, which at the same time alarms the patient and interferes with the operative procediu'e. Teclinique of tine injection.—For small areas an ordinary hypodermic sp'inge will serve excellently, but for larger areas a bigger syringe must be used. That designed by Barker (Fig. 191) is a very good one, and can be used either with a hypodermic needle or with the long, blunt nickel needles for the deep infiltration of the tissues. The line of the proposed incision should first be injected with the hvpodermic needle in such a manner as to raise a wheal in the skin. Only the first prick is felt, the subsequent punctures being painless if they are made into the wheal already raised. The infiltration of tlie deeper tissues is done with the long blunt needle, its passage through the skin being facilitated by a small preliminary puncture AA'ith a cutting needle. In performing this deep infiltration, an attempt is made to reach the tissues surrounding the operation area, with especial reference to the nerves going to the part, so that in most of the larger operations a combination of infiltration and regional ansesthesia is used. In using drugs combined Avith adrenalin, it is important to remember