774 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS gr. V three times a day ; in the later stages gr. x three times a day, increasiag up to gr. xxx three times a day, until by the end of a course of ten or fourteen days the patient will be taking 3ii per day ; as much as 3ii three times a day may be found necessary in some cases. Manner of giving iodides.—They may be given in the form of a saturated solution, one drop of which represents approximately gr. i of iodide of potassium : Iodide of potassium . . . . . . . '^v. Aquam . . . . . . ' . .ad 3i- Dose : n\v to Vl\x in a glass of milk or water three times a day. If this disagrees, 5 to 10 grains of pepsin may be added. The drug can be given by enema when necessary. When thus administered the intestine should first be evacuated by a simple enema. Then an enema of iodide of potassium, gr. xxx to gr. xl, dissolved in 3ii of water, with a few drops of laudanum, may be given. Hyfodermic injection.—Hypodermic injection of potassium iodide is sometimes resorted to. This mode cannot be recommended, owing to the frequent occurrence of abscesses and sloughing. Treatment of iodism.—This will depend on the severity of the symptoms. When they are mild and it is important to con- tinue the drug, the iodide may be given in increased doses; when severe, discontinuance of the drug is imperative. lodipin.—lodipin is a combination of iodine and sesame oil, and is prepared in two strengths—10 per cent, and 20 per cent.; the former for internal medication, the latter for injection purposes. Although the desired therapeutic effects can be brought about by giving the drug internally, this method is not recommended, as it is apt to bring on dyspepsia. Given hypodermicaUy or intra- muscularly, the dose is from 10 c.c. to 20 c.c. for ten consecutive days. The syringe should be capable of holding at least 10 c.c. The needle should be 2J inches long and have a large bore. The best seat of injection is in the loose tissues of the loins. lodipin is a viscid fluid and requires heating to at least body temjierature to render it thin enough for injection purposes. The advantages claimed for iodipin over iodide of potassium are that it is more slowly absorbed and excreted than the latter, that it is non-depressant, and that it does not interfere with the digestion. I have used it very extensively, and can recommend it as a substitute for potassium iodide in all cases in which the latter is inadmissible. It has one objection, viz. the bulk of its injection, which causes painful tension.