107 BACILLARY VACCINES can be given at intervals of four or five days, proceeding to doses of 10 millions at intervals of about a week. Finally, doses of 50 millions can be given, sometimes at weekly and sometimes at fortnightly inter- vals, according to the resistance of the patient, tlie chnical symptoms in coli infections forming a very rehable guide. The nausea and ano- rexia, together with the rise in temperature, which marks the negative phase, should not exceed 24 hours in duration, and the size of the dose or the interval between the doses should be so regulated that a short negative pliase is obtained. Prophylactic injections of vaccines of the colon bacillus prepared from the patient's alimentary canal are of distinct value as a routine preparation for appendix operations other than those of emergencv. B. pyocyaneus.—This organism is frequently met with as the causative agent in abscess-formation, in idcerative colitis and otitis, and is also commonly concerned in suppuration following extensive burns and scalds. The vaccine sliould be prepared in a similar manner to that mentioned for B. coli, and the injections should be given at intervals of five or six days, commencing with doses of 50 millions, and rising gi'adually to doses of 100 or 200 millions. Bacillus pneumoniae is met with in abscesses, especially those in the neighbourliood of the kidney, and in empyemata, also in localized abscesses in other situations. The initial dose of this organism is 5 to 10 millions, rising to doses of 100 millions, the intervals being usually six or seven days. Bacillus mallei.— The vaccine treatment of acute glanders is by no means successful. Subacute and chronic cases may apjsear for a time to do well, but similar improvement in the clinical con- dition of these patients has been observed under any form of treatment, and, so far as one can see, the final results are the same. The employ- ment of vaccines in tliese t-onditions is, therefore, not advocated. Bacillus tuberculosis.—In the various forms of localized tuberculosis tiie use of vaccine (tuberculin) prepared from this organ- ism is of the utmost value. Many cases—joints, bones, epididymi--, kidney, etc.—that would formerly have been operated upon the moment the condition was recognized, will in favourable circum- stances undergo complete cure with the use of tubercuhn alone ; although, where the tuberculous process is well advanced before the diagno.sis is made, it is advisable, if in any way possible, to remove the local focus, in order to shorten the period of treatment. Care must also be taken to exclude phthisis when commencing a course of tuberculin treatment, for my experience has been that patients who suffer from surgical tuberculosis complicated with phtlusis require exceedingly small doses of tuberculin, and that usually, while the local lesion rapidly mends, the infection of the lungs, so far from being