TUMOURS 546 to occur. In other cases tlie tumour forms a mass surrounding the tube, and may extend along the bronchial ramifications in the lung, and even reach the pleura. Secondary deposits may be found in the bronchial glands. Primary carcinoma of the lung is rare, and may probably originate either in the small bronchial tubes or in the alveolar epithelium. The growth may be diffuse and infiltrate a considerable part of one of the lobes, or may present itself as a localized nodular mass in the lung substance. The tumour-cells may actually occupy the pulmonary alveoli. The bronchial glands are likely to be invaded. A malignant growth in the lung, after iindergoing necrosis, may commtmicate with one of the large bronchi and occasion pulmonary haemorrhage. Carcinoma of the oesophagus usually occurs as the squamous-celled form, with well-marked cell-nest formations, but in rare instances, possibly when the growth originates in the oesophageal glands, the structure is that of carcinoma simplex, and in tumours at the cardiac orifice the structure may suggest that the gi'owth originated in the stomach. The disease, which is common, especially in men, occurs most frequently at one or other extremity of the oesophagus, or at the level of the bifurcation of the trachea, where the oesophagus is crossed by the left bronchus. The naked-eye characters of the disease vary widely, and whilst in some cases an annular stricture, fibrous in appearance, results, in other cases the growth involves a considerable length of the canal, and leads to very extensive ulceration. In the ulcerating forms the growth frequently spreads through the wall of the oesophagus, leading to a fistulous communication with the trachea or bronchus, opening up a neighbouring blood-vessel, or causing suppuration in the adjacent tissues of the neck or thorax. When the disease" involves the upper part of the oesophagus, enlarged glands may be present in the neck, but in disease of the intrathoracic portion, the oesophagus, together with the lower part of the trachea and the bronchi, may be surrounded by a large lobulated mass of growth formed by the adherent infiltrated glands. From the lower parts of the oesophagus the left supraclavicular glands may become invaded by way of the thoracic duct. Carcinoma of the stomach.—The stomach is one of the three organs in which carcinoma most commonly occurs, tlie other two being the breast and the uterus. In its minute structure carcinoma of the stomach presents two forms, the epithelial cells in one having the undifferentiated form of the carcinoma simplex, and in the other retaining a more or less cubical or columnar shape (Fig. 146). No sharp line can be drawn between these two varieties, but whilst the carcinoma simplex tends to manifest