642 X-RAY EXAMINATION place to some extent, wliicli pemiits of their discovery by the X-rays. Plate 62, Fig. 3, is an example of double cervical rib, seen in the positions indicated. Coxa vara.—This deformity presents a sufficiently characteristic ■appearance. In radiographic examination, however, care must be taken to place the limbs symmetrically and to avoid internal rotation 4 otherwise the shadow of the neck and shaft of the femur may be so distorted as to lead to an erroneous diagnosis of coxa vara. Plate 62, Fig. 4, is the radiogram of a definite case of double coxa vara ;'Fig. 5 is an example of the adolescent variety of tliis disease, where the upper epiphysis cf the femur has gradually slipped down, and can be seen lying below the neck of the femur. Flat-foot.—The association of this deformity with an arthritis of the scapho-astragaloid joint may be ascertained by X-ray exam- ination. This association is evident in Plate 63, Fig. 1, in which osteophytie outgrowth in relation with the scapho-astragaloid joint is unmistakable. Curvature of long bones.—The extent and position of curvatures of bone the result of rickets can be estimated by X-ray examination, and the radiograms. Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 63, are examples of such curvatures affecting the tibia and femur. Congenital absence of bone.—The existence of such a condition as this is obviously recognizable by X-ray examination. Thus Plate 63, Fig. 4, is a radiogram of the pelvis showing congenital absence of the lower end of the sacrum. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE X-ray examination of the sj^inal column is carried out, but the value of the radiogram differs greatly according to the particular portion of the column to be investigated. Views at right-angle planes of the upper six cervical vertebra) can be obtained easily, but the seventh cervical, the dorsal, and the lumbar can be viewed only in one direction, namely, the antero-posterior. The mid-dorsal region is rendered obscure by the shadow of the heart and great vessels, and although a view in an oblique direction is obtained, as described in connexion with thoracic aneurysm (p. 648), the vertebrae in such a view are extremely distorted in outline and difficult to realize. The lumbar vertebrae can be satisfactorily demonstrated, especially if some form of abdominal compressor is used as described for renal examinations. In the cervical region, injury to the vertebrae is easily and certainly made out by X-ray examination. The amount of dislocation of the bodies associated with the fracture can be ascertained, and precise