36o TUMOURS or other irritation, the skin over a subcutaneous lipoma may ulcerate, and in rare instances this has been followed by suppuration and even sloughing of the tumour substance. In some cases opaque, whitish areas occur in fatty tumours as the result of necrosis, and resulting from this a process of saponifica- tion may take place. Cavities are thus formed in the tumour, contain- ing a soapy fluid resulting from the combination of the fatty acids with the calcium and sodium salts of the plasma. Independently of, or sometimes associated with, saponification, calcification may occur, either in the substance of the tumour or in the form of an eggshell- like layer surrounding one of its lobules. We do not know of any recorded case in which it has been certainly proved that a fatty tumour has undergone a sarcomatous meta- morphosis. A case, however, has been observed by us in which a sarcoma of the skin of the left arm was associated with the presence of multiple fatty tumours of the right forearm and both thighs, and in which the history strongly suggested that such a change had occurred. Mixed tumours, composed of fat and najvoid tissue (naevo-lipomas), will most conveniently be considered with the angiomas. Certain teratomas also may be largely composed of fat. Multiple subcutaneous lipomas.—These ra,rely reach a large size, but may be present in almost any number, and may be distributed irregularly over the trunk and hmbs, or may be limited in distribution, being present sometimes in symmetrical parts, as, for instance, the two forearms. In some cases the tendency to the growth of multiple lipomas has been hereditary. In Broca's case, quoted by Roger Williams, 2,080 tumours could be counted on the head and neck, trunk, and hmbs. The first tumour was noticed on the thigh at the age of 25, and was excised six years later. Subse- quently the multiple tumours appeared, and at the age of 70 the patient came under the care of Broca for dysphagia, which even- tually caused death. Examination after death revealed the presence of a large fatty growth surrounding the oesophagus and completely occluding it. It is rarely that any difficulty occurs in the diagnosis of multiple lipomas. From multiple fibromas they are usually readily distin- guished by their lobulation and softer consistence. Diffuse lipoma.'—This variety differs from the encapsuled form in that it forms a fatty mass indistinguishable from the sub- cutaneous fat of the part in which it grows. It was first clearly recog- nized by Sir Benjamin Brodie in 1846. Diffuse lipoma is most com- mon in the neck, especially in the suboccipital regions, where it forms symmetrical tumours over the muscles attached to the occipital