734 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS occasionally the hair papillae are destroyed and permanent baldness results. Treatment.—The hair should be cut short and the scalp daily rubbed with au ointment of white precipitate (gr. xxx), and cold cream (^j). The parts should be thoroughly washed each morning with soap and bran-water, and a lotion of perchloride of mercury (1-1,000) applied two or three times a day. The nails.—Secondary affections of the nails generally appear within the first two years, but may be much later. They are of two varieties: onychia and paronychia. In onychia the nails become dry, brittle, and rough, with longitudinal fissures and minute depres- sions, in which dirt collects and gives the nail a speckled appearance. The epidermis imder the free margin is usually thickened and scaly. Of paronychia there are three forms : ulcerative, indolent, and diffuse. The ulcerative form may begin as a papule; ulceration occurs, and extends along the sulcus at the base of the nail, which loses lustre and becomes detached, undermined by offensive pus, and destroyed. In the non-ulcerative form the border of the naU is thickened and infiltrated and surrounded by a papular ring. The colour is dull red and the surface may be scaly : the nail usually becomes detached. The diffuse variety begins as a hypersemia of the tissue surrounding the naO. It is painless at first and dull red in colour, but later becomes coppery. The parts become swollen and bulbous, and eventually the nail itself becomes engaged and is destroyed. Treatment.—In the case of onychia the affected finger should be frequently soaked in perchloride of mercury (1-1,000) and the naUs kept carefully trimmed. In ulcerative paronychia the diseased surface should be exposed as soon as possible, cauterized with nitric or chromic acid, and dressed with moist dressings, followed by appli- cations of iodoform. Prolonged immersion of the hand in warm perchloride of mercury is very beneficial. Affections of the mucous membranes.-—Erythema of mucous membranes is usually seen in the neighbourhood of the fauces and of the outlets of mucous canals, especially of the mouth, anus, and genital organs. The most common lesions of the mouth are the greyish-white mucous patches known as opaline patches, so commonly found at the angles of the mouth, inner surface of the cheeks, and dorsum of the tongue. They occur most often in invete- rate smokers, and are due to proliferation of the epithelium. They are sometimes fissured or eroded, and frequently persist long after other signs have apparently passed away. Superficial affections of the tongue may be present as a general erythema or as scattered whitish oval plaques on the dorsum,