GENITAL CHANCRES 721 chancres of the urinary meatus either one, or, more usually, both lips of the meatus may be involved ; tlie mucous membrane is thickened, and the lips are glued together by a scanty viscid dis- charge. Induration, although limited, is always well marked. Such chancres may be mistaken for gonorrhoeal ulceration : a correct diagnosis is rendered still more difficult when gonorrhoea co-exists. Chancres of the urethra, o^ving to their concealment from view and the small amount of disturbance they occasion, are liable to be mistaken for gonorrhoea imtil the disease is well developed. They are usually met with just within the meatus or in the fossa navicularis, but may occur lower down the canal. There is pain on micturition ; slight, thin, yellow discharge ; and a sensation of cir- cumscribed hardness on palpation of the course of the urethra. The lesion can best be detected with certainty by internal manipulations or by the urethroscope. Chancre of the skin at the base of penis apjjears as an abrasion which extends in size by slow erosion, until it becomes a circular, flat, or depressed sore of about the size of a sixpence or, in some cases, a shilling. The edges are hard, laminated induration being especially well marked in chancres in this situation. The surface, though it erodes, rarely ulcerates to any extent; it is covered with a whitish-yellow false membrane, the removal of which exposes a weeping exudate. Preputial chancres are generally ragged, and give the end of the foreskin the appearance of having been split. The splits at first look like scratches, with indurated and generally inflamed edges. The preputial tissue is usually thickened. Subpreputial (or concealed) chancres.—A chancre may be invisible owing to the existence of phimosis, which may be congenital or may be acquired, and due to the disease concealed under the prepuce. There will then be a thin, yellowish discharge on gentle expression, but little or no pain on micturition or other sign of gonorrhoea. An indurated sore beneath the foreskin can generally be felt on manipula- tion with the fingers. In any case, however, the surgeon should take immediate measures to expose the lesion. Chancre of the scrotum commences as a circumscribed erythe- matous patch, the skin of which soon desquamates, leaving little fissures exuding a clear serum. The cracks miite by erosion, and a shallow circular ulcer, on a hard base and with well-marked indurated edges, remains. In other cases the surface is covered with brownish crusts of dried epithelium, which repeatedly re-forms on removal. In yet others the chancre takes the form of a tubercle. Chancre of the anus.—(«) When at the margin of the anus, the chancre generally presents a thickened, fissured, and ulcerated u