2/6 MILITARY SURGERY of the bullet is narrow, and when the part is placed in the exact position it Avas in at the moment of receipt of the wound, a straight line from the entrance to the exit indicates the bullet's course. This is important in diagnosis. Multiple wounds from a single bullet are very common, the bullet traversing both legs, or the arm and chest, and so on. Rifle bullets seldom lodge in the body, except at long ranges or when arrested by striking bone. They comparatively seldom carry portions of the clothing into the wound, and loose-textured woollen material is more likely to be carried in than cotton or linen. The importance of this with regard to sepsis is obvious. Bullets that strike sideways or base foremost, or that have struck the ground and become deformed, make larger M'ounds, and are more likely to lodge and to carry in fragments of clothing. The bullets of old-pattern rifles, such as the Martini or the Snider, cause wounds very similar to those from small-bore bullets, but larger and with a greater tendency to laceration and irregularity of form. They may be met with in wars Avith semi-civilized nations. Shrapnel bullets are spherical, and produce larger and less regular wounds than rifle bullets. They often lodge, and are very hkely to carry in pieces of clothing. Fragments of shell inflict irregular and lacerated wounds of all sizes, with much contusion and subsequent sloughing. Both shell and shrapnel wounds are usually septic. Wounds from large projectiles, such as unexploded shells, are rare. They may be very severe, and are quite irregular in form and size. Fragments of hand grenades cause lacerated wounds like those from pieces of shell, and very severe injuries may also occur from the bursting of these weapons close to the body. Yellow staining of the skin is seen in these cases, also in injuries from the explosion of shells containing lyddite. Pain in gunshot wounds depends chiefly on the region wounded and the severity of the injury. It is well known that in the heat of battle even serious injuries may be received without any pain being felt at the time. The most painful wounds are those of the spinal cord and nerves, fractures, and wounds with much laceration of the skin. Shock is also dependent on the situation and extent of the injury. It is worst in wounds of the head, spine, or abdomen, and in bad fractures. Local shock is a condition peculiar to gunshot wounds. It is caused by the vibrations set up by the impact of the bullet producing temporary loss of function in the nerve-endings in the immediate neighbourhood of the wound, with numbness and anaesthesia of the skin and paresis of the muscles. It is most marked round the entrance wound, and in wounds at short ranges. Where there is much local