501 SARCOMA OF LONG BONES result of the weakening of the bone, spontaneous fracture is not an uncommon occurrence (Fig. 125), but is less frequent than in secondary carcinoma. It is most likely to occur when the tumour involves the middle part of the shaft. Sarcomas, although particularly prone to begin in the extremities of the long bones, rarely actually involve the joint cavity, and, as in the case of the myelomas, tlie articular cartilage usually remains intact, even though the tumour substance extends to its deep surface. The clinical distinction between a cen- tral and a periosteal sarcoma can often be made with tolerable certainty, even with- out X-ray examination. In the former, although the tumour may project only from one aspect of the bone, it can generally be detected that the bone is enlarged in other parts of its circumfer- ence. The periosteal tumour is likely to be more extensive ; it projects as a somewhat lobulated mass from the bone, often surrounding its whole circumfer- ence, and the borders of the tumour in relation to the bone are more abrupt. It is also of importance that pulsation can more often be detected in a central growth, in that part which has projected through the expanded osseous tissue. Among the most important varieties of sarcoma which aiiect the bones are roxmd-, spindle-, and mixed-celled sarcomas, an- gio-sarcoma (endothelial sarcoma), chon- drifying sarcoma, and ossifying sarcoma. Probably the most common form of peri- osteal sarcoma is the spindle-celled, and it is in this form that chondritication and ossification are most commonly seen. Round-celled sarcoma is said to occur more frequently as a central growth. The formation of cartilage or bone in a sarcoma of bone may be so slight as only to be detected on minute examination, or, on the other hand, may be so marked a feature of the tumour as to give it the appearance of a mass of cartilage or bone. Microscopical examination may alone Fig. 125. — Spindle-celled sarcoma of periosteum of shaft of femur, leading to spontaneous fracture. ( This and the two preceding Jl^urcs arc froiii specimens in the Mmctan of University College Hospital.)