355 CLINICAL EXAMINATION Tumours of mixed structure are very common, and are distin- guished by suitable compound names, such as fibro-myoma, myxo- chondroma, osteo-sarcoma, etc. The fibrous tissue, which in a vary- ing amount is present as the stroma of nearly all tumours, does not indicate a mixed structure unless it is present in such amount as to impart special characters to the growth. A simple fatty tumour contains a connective-tissue stroma holding together the fat lobules, but it is only when it exists in excessive amount that the tumour is termed a fibro-lipoma. Clinical examination of a tumour.—Before proceeding to the consideration of the different forms of new growth, it may be useful to indicate some of the most important points requiring observation in the jjractical examination of a tumour with a view to determining its nature. The position of the tumour is often of great diagnostic value, and as far as possible its relation to the neighbouring anatomical structures should be carefully observed. For example, in the case of a tumour in one of the limbs, it is necessary to determine its relation to the surrounding muscles, and whether or not it is connected witii the bone. Again, in examining an abdominal tumour, the observer must endeavour to decide whether it is confined to the abdominal wall, or whether it is actually in the abdominal cavity, and in the latter case to search for any evidence of its connexion with one or another of the abdominal viscera. Valuable information can often be obtained by noting the effect on the tumour of voluntary contraction of the surrounding muscles, whilst, on the other hand, when the growth is deeply seated, the examination is greatly facilitated by complete muscular relaxation, such as can sometimes only be obtained by the administration of an anaesthetic. The actual size of a tumour is not always at once apparent, for, especially when deeply seated, it is likely to be confused by a want of definition from the overlying tissues. The shape must be actually noted, and the presence or absence of lobulation of the surface observed. The consistence is often a very useful indication in diagnosis, and may vary from a softness suggestive of fluid to a hardness equal to that of bone. When a tumour is soft it may be difficult to decide whether it is solid or fluid, for some soft solid tumours give to the fingers a sense of elasticity, or even fluctuation, which may be very suggestive of fluid. When the observer is in doubt on this point he should carefully examine the edge of the swelling, which, in the case of a soft solid tumour, can often be felt as a distinct, rounded border, whilst if the tumour is fluid no such border is palpable. It is still more important to remember that a hard tumour is not necessarily solid. A tense cyst may be so hard as to deceive the most careful observer.