329 PROPHYLAXIS OF SHOCK TREATMENT Having now reviewed the causes, pathological anatomy, and symp- toms of shock, and laid down a theory as to its causation, it is possible to consider its treatment on a rational basis and to accept or reject the various methods of treatment that have been proposed and carried out from time to time. It cannot be too clearly and emphatically laid down that the condition of shock is temporary, whether it be due to inhibition of the nerve centres or to fatigue-paralysis of them, and that recovery is dependent upon the patient living long enough for the centres to recuperate or the inhibition to pass off. The condition is not only capable of spontaneous recovery but the patient usually does so recover, and in twenty-four hours or less may show no sign that he has ever been in the condition of shock. The treatment of shock therefore consists (1) in preventing the condition ; (2) in maintaining a blood pressure sufficient to allow the continuance of the heart's action during the time that the vaso- motor centres are recovering (and that without stimulation of these centres), and to aid their recovery by affording them a suificient supply of blood. 1. Prophylactic treatment of a patient about to undergo a severe operation. Mental.—Owing to the effect of the higher centres on the lower, it is of great importance to control the feeling of fear present in most patients before an operation, for a trivial operation performed on an intensely frightened patient may be fatal from shock. The patient should be reassured in every way and the gravity of the operation minimized as much as possible. Pro- longed waiting before an operation is inadvisable. Warmth.—Exposm-e to external cold, itself a cause of shock, and the fall of body temperature that accompanies shock, should as far as possible be prevented by external warmth. The patient should be as warmly clad as is consistent with the operation to be performed, and the operating room should be suitably heated (75° F.). For children and elderly people a hot-water bed is advisable, and, if the operation is on the abdomen, the chest and limbs should be wrapjjed in cotton-wool. Food.—The time of the prelimmary starvation before the adminis- tration of an ana'sthetic should be shortened if much shock is expected, and in children and elderly people it should not exceed four hours. Nutrient enemata may also be given before an operation, but their value is slight. The aperient given should be a mild one. Anaesthetics.—It has been seen ihat one of the chief causes of shock is an overwhelming number of sensory impulses reaching the