HYDROPHOBIA 890 Pathogeny.—Deep and extensive lacerations, in which the saliva of the biting animal has widely impregnated the nervous elements, are particularly serious. On the other hand, bites through garments are generally harmless. But an excoriation soiled by virulent saliva is sufficient to cause infection. The great mortality due to bites in the face, in the head or hands, has long been noted. It is due to the fact that these parts are exposed and are abundantly supplied with nerves. Incubation period.— The period of incubation which ensues between the actual time of the bite and the appearance of the first symptoms of hydrophobia rarely exceeds sixty days in man, and is hardly ever less than two weeks. The length of the incubation period varies with the qiiantity of virus inoculated by the biting animal, with the place of inoculation, and with the general condition of the subject; pre-existing alcoholism, nervous defects, or any influence which tends to lower the nervous system being aggravating factors. Passage of virus by nerves—The rabic virus is not carried by the circulation of lymph or blood, but during the period of incu- bation the nerves on the path from the bite to the nervous centres are infected. It is through them and in their corresponding cells that the transmission and growth of the infectious agent takes place (Roux, Nocard). Experimental diagnosis.—The diagnosis of hydrophobia can only be certainly established by the experimental method—that is, by demonstrating the virulence of the nervous centres of a patient or an animal dead of hydrophobia. This test is to be made by inoculating a dog or rabbit, by the intra- cerebral, intra-ocular, or intramuscular route, with several drops of emulsion newly prepared by triturating a small fragment of bulb or brain in some bouillon or physiological salt solution. The most certain method is by trephining and intracerebral inoculation under the dura mater. Hydrophobia then appears in the inoculated animal after from seven to fifteen days. Bitten persons should be subjected to the antirabic treatment without waiting for this definite result. Prognosis and treatment.—The prognosis of manifested hydrophobia is always fatal. There is no disease in which the surgeon is more at a loss. His treatment can only be palliative. It consists in placing the patient in a warm room, avoiding a bright light, draughts, noises, strong smells, and anything which might provoke rabic spasms. Hypodermic injections of morphia and rectal adminis- tration of chloral are almost the only measures at our disposal. They cannot prevent death, but may make its advent less painful.