482 TUMOURS in a sarcoma is tlie fact, wliicli naturally follows from wliat lias been said, tliat tlie blood channels run actually among tlie cells of the tumour (Fig. 106). This arrangement is important as explaining the readiness with which the tumour cells enter the blood-stream and occasion metastases, and also affords valuable help in endeavouring to distinguish malignant tumours of the connective-tissue type from others of an epithelial type. For instance, certain round-celled sarcomas may present close histological resemblances to some forms of spheroidal-celled carcinoma. Among other means of differentiation it will be noted that in the sarcoma blood channels are seen passing actually among the tumour cells, whereas in the carcinoma the blood- vessels are limited to the connective-tissue stroma and in no case pass into the masses of spheroidal cells. It will thus be seen that a sarcoma may be regarded as a tumour composed of connective tissue of an embryonic type, in the character not only of the cells but also of the blood-vessels. In the ordinary forms of sarcoma, lymphatic vessels cannot be recognized, but in certain forms (endothelial sarcoma) lymphatic vessels are present and there is reason to believe that the tumour cells arise in their endothelium. The practical difficulty which often presents itself to the patho- logist is to distinguish by histological examination between sarcoma and many cellular formations of an inflammatory or reparative nature. in which connective-tissue development is in progress. For instance, a microscopical section of a small round-celled sarcoma closely resembles that of simple granulation tissue. Both consist of undifferentiated round cells and undeveloped blood-vessels. From the examination of a fragment of such tissue, the distinction may be practically impossible, but a wider examination will usually reveal the essential difference—that, whereas in granulation tissue its progressive con- version into fibroblasts and fully formed connective tissue can be demonstrated, in the sarcoma all parts present the undeveloped stage, and show no tendency to pass on to a higher grade of de- velopment. The observations which tend to show that Altmann's granules are absent from the cells of malignant connective-tissue growths and present in the cells of inflammatory deposits may prove to be of great practical value in this connexion, should they be con- firmed (p. 456). The great variations in structure presented by the malignant connective-tissue tumours are dependent partly upon the character of the sarcoma cells and partly upon the presence of different forms of connective tissue, which may be associated with the sarcoma cells as an essential constituent of the tumour. The following classification is based upon these characters :—