74 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY grejdsli, isolated colonies which do not fuse. On coagulated blood- serum it grows somewhat more rapidly, and appears in the form of small, opaque, white colonies elevated above the surface of the medium and rounded in outline. Milk is not coagulated. Its optimum temperature is 34°-37° C, and its limits of growth about 20°-42° C. It is killed within from 5 to 10 minutes at 60° C. in' a moist condition, but in the dried-up substance of diphtheritic membrane it may resist a temperature of nearly 100° C. (95° C. to 98° C.) for about an hour. In dried diphtheritic membrane it may remain alive and virulent for three or four months. And the same statement holds for a pure culture dried upon silk threads. In ordinary culture media it survives for a considerable period, and may be found living after the lapse of from six to eighteen months. It is somewhat resistant to the action of antiseptics, but formaldehyde and hydrogen peroxide are specially valuable disinfectants for this organism. The diphtheria bacillus produces a powerful toxin. This is best prepared by growing the bacillus in bouillon cultures, when it is observed that the reaction of the medium is changed from alkaline to acid in the course of a few days, but subsequently again becomes alkaline. After three or four weeks' growth at 35° C, the fluid is filtered o£E from the bacteria, and is found to possess a highly toxic action for animals. The toxin is moderately susceptible to the action of heat, and in a moist condition rapidly deteriorates at a temperature of 60° C. It is speedily rendered inactive by exposure to 100° C. In a dried state it can withstand heating at 100° C. for a quarter of an hour without appreciable injury. The strength of the toxin is usually tested on guinea-pigs, and is measured in multiples of the smallest dose which kills a guinea-pig weighing 250 grm. within three or four days. On subcutaneous injection of the toxin into guinea-pigs character- istic pathological changes are produced, which differ somewhat accord- ing as a minimal lethal dose or less than this amount is introduced. In the former case there is developed at the site of inoculation in the course of a day or two (if the animal does not die within this period) an extensive and somewhat hsemorrhagic cedematous infiltration. In the peritoneal, pleural, and pericardial cavities is usually found a larger or smaller amount of serous exudation. In the lungs are often present areas of hsemorrhagic consolidation, and the suprarenal capsules show a deep, almost magenta-red condition of congestion, and may exhibit interstitial haemorrhages. There are marked fatty changes in most of the parenchymatous organs. Where a smaller dose of the toxin has been given and the animal survives, the local infiltration following the injection may spread very widely, and becomes very hard and indurated in the course of some