ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 728 slight hope of success from excision can only be entertained in the rare cases in which the chancre is diagnosed when only a few hours old, before the development of induration or satellite glands. No stimulating or caustic applications should be made, for on the one hand, they may transform a simple sore into an inflamma- tory nodule resembling a hard chancre, and so confuse the diagnosis ; or, on the other hand, they may cause troublesome oedema round an incipient chancre without any counterbalancing benefit. The breach of surface should be kept scrupulously clean and covered with lint or absorbent cotton, moistened with sterile water or with mercuric perchloride (1-2,000) or very dilute carbolic lotion. Hydrogen peroxide (1 in 6 of water) is a good application. Or, as the chancre increases in size, it may be dressed with black or yellow wash. Powders such as boric acid, aristol, europhen, dermatol, or iodoform may be of great benefit. Of these the best is iodoform, provided its disagreeable odour is minimized by sparing use and by care to pre- vent spilling on the clothing, by packing on cotton-wool under the prepuce. Iodoform is only of value when the surface is unhealthy and necrotic, and should be discontinued when it becomes clean. When the chancre is covered with a false membrane or shows a tendency to destructive ulceration, a caustic effect is necessary, and may be obtained by thorough washing with soap and water, and irrigation with -5 per cent, carbolic lotion, followed, after drying, by cocainization. A still better method is to sop the part freely with hydrogen peroxide (equal parts with water), or with perhydrol ; then to cocainize, dry, and apply such a caustic as liquid carbolic acid or strong nitric acid. Calomel often acts promptly and efficiently in chancres showings a disposition to destruction, and is always a useful dry dressing in clean but indolent sores. As the indurated chancre is probably the site of multiplication of the spirochete and the focus whence it spreads throughout the system, it is important to bring all chancres showing a tendency to induration under rapid specific treatment. The sur- face having been washed and rendered as nearly aseptic as possible, a layer of lint, well smeared with ung. hydrargyri, Metchriikofi's 30 per cent, calomel ointment, or ung. hydrargyri oleatis (5 per cent.), should be applied and changed two or three times a day. As a rule, ointments otlier than mercurial should be avoided, except when the discharge is thick and sticky. Phagedsenic chancres require special treatment, the most reli- able being continual immersion in hot antiseptic solutions. Should the phagedsenic process continue, cauterization, either with chemicals or with the actual cautery, must be undertaken. Of the cliemical