352 TUMOURS growth, such as a sarcoma of bone, follows an injury, for such cases cannot all be explained by supposing that the injury has merely served to draw attention to, or increase the growth of, a tumour already in existence. Numerous examples could be quoted to illustrate the occasional origin of tumours in connexion with vestigial structures. For instance, certain adenomatous tumours of the uterus can only be explained satisfactorily by the view that they originate in vestiges of Gartner's duct. Again, the postanal gut or neurenteric canal is generally believed to be the origin of tumours, often of complex structure, occurring in the region of the coccyx, while the vitelline duct and allantois are the source of certain adenomatous tumours of the um- bilicus in the adult. Certain tumours of complex structure (teratomas) illustrate a special mode of congenital origin. There is strong evidence in sup- port of the view that they are closely allied to double monsters, and result from the irregular development of a fecundated ovum within the body of the individual, or from fission of the embryo. Classification.—In the absence of any definite knowledge con- cerning the causation of tumours, the only grounds upon which a classi- fication can be founded are : (1) their structure, (2) their origin, and (3) their mode of groivth. For practical purposes it is convenient to adopt the first of these and to classify tumours according to their histological structure This classification possesses the advantage of being based upon actual demonstrable facts and not upon considerations which are more or less theoretical. A classification dependent upon the origin of tumours is only possible to a limited degree, and thus fails for practical purposes. For instance, certain tumours of the jaws, although differing widely in structure, are by some pathologists grouped together imder the name " odontoma " because they occur as the result of irregularities in the process of tooth formation. According, however, to a system of nomenclature based solely on structure, an odontoma is a tumour composed of dental tissues, just as an osteoma is a tumour composed of bone. The mode of growth of tumours only serves as a basis of classification in so far as it is the most important feature upon which the division is made into the malignant and the non-malignant or benign. A benign or simple tumour, although it may attain enormous proportions, does not invade the structures which surround it, but in its growth it may, as a result of compression, bring about absorption of the surrounding tissues. Moreover, a common, but not constant, feature of a simple tumour is the presence of a capsule, which surrounds the tumour and forms a clear line of demarcation between it and the