INTERSTITIAL INFLAMMATION excess of tlie degenerative ones. The clianjie is found in its most intense degree in mueous nicnilfrancs. 'I'he vessels in the deeper ])iirts always show engorgenicnl, and there ::re, in achlition. transuda- tion of lyniph and emigration of leucocytes, both of these plienomena being often present to a considerable degree. The secretion of the cells is always increased in amount, and is watei'V or mucous in character. E.xamination of the exudate shows that it contains numerous leucocytes, and also epithelial cells which may sliow pro- liferative changes as well as degenerative ones. All forms of cells may exhibit phagocytosis to other cells or to foreign ])articles—e.g. iilnod piunirnt. etc. (). Interstitial inflammation.—In this condition, as the term is l;i'iut; ll\' cinplnviNl. there is ,in overgrowth, more or less chronic, of coi\nective tissue along the lines of the supporting fibrous tissues of the part. This overgrowth is usually a result of infective or other irritants acting slowly, Init it may be l)i'ought alxnit by s])ecial strain, <u' it may be a sequel of chronic degenerative and absorptive processes. In this process the fibrous tissue is at first cellular, and collections of small 1 vnipliocyte-like cells may be seen at various points; but the usual phenomena of inflammation—dilatation of vessels, lymph transudation, leucocyte emigration, etc.—are absent. The condition is rather that of a hyperplasia than of a true inflam- matory reaction, and is well illustrated in the overgrowth of fibrous tissue which takes jilace in the lunus. iu the liver, or in the k'idn(\vs as a result of the irritation caused by foreign particles or by bacterial or metabolic ]>oisons. Thus, anthracosis in the lungs and cirrhosis in the li\-er aie t\|)ieal examples of "■interstitial inflammation." 7. Parenchymatous inflammation.—The changes are of a degenerati\"e and not of an inllammatorv character, though they are very commoidy associated with inflammation, and may be brought about by the direct action of the toxins on the tissues. They may, however, also result from impaired vascular supply, or from altered metabolic processes. Though mainlv a change in the functioning cells of a jiart, the condition is practicallv always associated with changes in the supporting tissues and in the vessels. The cells become swollen and the cytoplasmic reticulum becomes more evident, pro- ducing the so-called granular appearance. The nucleus luay show evidences of deiienerative changes in varying degrees. The vessels are usually dilated, and the supporting tissues may be swollen and HKiy show inlilrration with leticocvtes. IIIK CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION BacteriaL—In the vast proportion of cases of acute inflamma- tion, bacteria are the direct exciting cau.se. The micro-organisms gain