HYDATID CYSTS 603 cases of hydatid disease is the increase of the eosinophile cells of tlie blood. Barling and Welsh of Sydney, who have made observations on this phenomenon, found that in 50 per cent, the eosinophiUa was marked, in 2-5 per cent, moderate, and in 2.5 per cent, absent or so slight as to be of no diagnostic value. It was a marked feature in six cases in which the cyst had leaked or ruptured into the abdominal cavity. Finally, it may be mentioned that Welsh and Chapman have found evidence that a precipitive reaction sometimes occurs between hydatid fluid and the serum of individuals suffering from hydatid disease ; and that Weinberg and others have obtained some positive results tending to show that an antibody is produced in this disease, and that the fixation of tlie complement may prove an aid in diagnosis. The treatment of a hydatid cyst should, as far as possible, consist in the complete removal of the parasitic cyst. Exploratory puncture with an aspirator needle is a dangerous procedure in hydatids of the chest and abdomen, and an exploratory incision should always be preferred. In some situations it may be possible to close the wound after the removal of the cyst, but, especially in large hepatic cysts, the edges of the incision in the adventitious cyst should be sutured to the edges of the wound in the parietes and the cavity drained. Some surgeons think it advisable to inject a small quantity of formalin into the C3^st before opening it. In hydatid disease of bone it may be possible merely to remove the cyst, but, as the disease often assumes the exogenous form in the cancellous tissue, removal of part of the bone, or even amputation, may be necessary. Hydatid disease in such a situation as the liver must be regarded as a very serious aiiection, as far as ultimate cure is concerned. McLaurin is of opinion that the subjects of the disease should not be accepted for life assurance for five years after operation. The only other parasitic cyst of the human subject which needs mention is the Cysticercus ceJhdosce—the hydatid form of the Tcenia solium. Usually this hydatid occurs as the " measle " of the pig, and its occurrence in man is rare. The cysticercus consists of a thin-walled cyst varying in size from a pea to a small bean, and 2)resenting on its inner surface a small pro- jection or scolex which is capable of developing into a mature Tcenia solium if conveyed into the intestine of a suitable host. Among the situations in which cysticerci have been found in man are the brain, eye, muscles, subcutaneous tissues, heart and viscera. They may be accidentally discovered post-mortem, but have been kno\Mi to occasion symptoms during hfe, as, for instance, when situated in the brain. A cysticercus in the vitreous body of the eye may form a striking object on ophthalmoscopic examination. Multiple subcutaneous cysticerci may resemble small, solid tumours