INJECTION OF SERUMS AND VACCINES 93 1. Subcutaneous injection. Site.—Premising that the serum or vaccine should be introduced into loose, subcutaneous tissue, the exact spot selected is of little importance so far as the ultimate result is concerned, althouoli the sides of the abdomen, towards the loin or near the groin, and the back, between the shoulders, and in females the loose tissue at the base of the mamniaj, are favourite spots. Certain considerations, however, influence our choice. In the first place, a small lump is frequently noted at the seat of inoculation, which persists for a day or two, or perhaps longer, often associated with some tenderness, hence a locality should be selected which is subject to little movement, and is not pressed upon by the patient's clothing or during work or sleep, or subjected to friction. Therefore, in the male, parts subjected to the pressure of braces, and in the female, of corset bones or laces, should be avoided. If a second injection is required, it may be given at a point corresponding with the first, but boiling after separation of the component parts. at the opposite side of the body; if a series of doses is necessary, rows of punctures may be made in lines up the two sides of the body. In both sexes the forearm, where the sul)cutaneous tissue is small in amount and constant friction is experienced between the sldn and the muscle beneath, is a particularly bad locality for the injection of vaccines, although its ready accessibility renders it extremely tempting for tliis purpose. Preparation.—Wash the selected site thoroughly with ether soap on a piece of lint, pour ether on to the area to wash away the soap, and finally cover with a piece of sterile lint saturated with ether the spot it is proposed to puncture. Injection.—Pinch up a fold of the prepared skin between the thuml) and forefinger of the left hand, with a quick movement pass the needle through the skin into the subcutaneous tissue, and inject the fluid slowly. When the dose has been administered, withdraw the needle, and if the volume of fluid that has been injected is large, seal the puncture with a layer of collodion or a small disc of adhesive plaster.