8o SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY recognized, so that Valsalva and Morgagni were unwilling to perform autopsies on individuals who had died of phthisis. VillemLn (1865) was the first to prove conclusively that the in- oculation of tuberculous material into rabbits invariably led to the development of tuberculosis in the animals in question, and that the introduction of dried phthisical sputum into their air-passages resulted in tuberculosis of the lung. These observations were extended and abimdantly confirmed by the work of Armanni, of Burdon-Sanderson, and especially of Cohnheim and Salomonsen. But it was not imtil the publication by Koch, in 1884 (following his earlier announcement of the discovery of the tubercle bacillus in 1882), of his masterly and brilliant researches into the etiology of tuberculosis, that it was made known that the bacillus had been isolated in pure culture on artificial media, that on inoculation into animals it had produced the typical disease, and had again been isolated in pure culture from the lesions which resulted, thus finally and fully establishing both the identity and the specificity of the micro-organism in question. The bacillus is a thin, rod-shaped organism, straight or sUghtly curved along its length, or even somewhat S-shaped, and often of a remarkably irregular outline. It varies considerably in length, and measures about 2-4 fju long, by 0'2 /u. wide. In old cultures and in pathological material (e.g. sputum) the bacilli commonly exhibit very marked vacuolation, which produces an appearance of beading in stained specimens, and may even simulate a short chain of strep- tococci, owing to the fact that the vacuoles do not take up the stain. The organism is not motile, and has no flagella. It does not form spores. It does not stain readily with watery solutions of the ordinary basic aniline dyes, but requires sjjecial methods of staining based on the use of mordants, as in Ziehl-Neelsen's method, in Gram-staining, etc. When it has once been stained it retains the dye with very great persistence, owing to the peculiar nature of its envelope, which contains a wax-like substance having special characters. It is a strictly aerobic organism, but it will not grow on the ordinary media when freshly recovered from tuberculous material, unless about 6 per cent, glycerine be added to them. It can be grown on the surface of blood-serum or serum-agar, but even in these cases the addition of glycerine greatly increases the value of the media, and this sub- stance should never be omitted in attempting to isolate the organism from animal tissues. In glycerine-bouillon it grows only on the surface, leaving the under- lying fluid clear, and slowly forms a pellicle, which in the course of about five or six weeks develops into a thick and wrinkled, dry and waxy-looking membrane of a greyish-yellow colour. The culture