513 CARCINOMA the tissues to the infiltrating epithelial growth. The stroma is, therefore, absent at the spreading edge of the tumour where the earliest invasion of the tissues by the advancing epithelial cell-columns is taking place. Again, when the lymphatics of a part are permeated by cancerous epithelium, the stroma reaction may be absent, and the recognition of the nature of the disease depends entirely upon the abnormal presence of epithelium cells in the part. Further, in the rare form of mahgnant epithelial tumour known as chorion-epithelioma, the epithelial elements, being largely intravenous, do not occasion any stroma reaction. When, however, as is usually the case, a well-marked stroma reaction occurs, the carcinomatous tumour assumes the alveolar arrange- ment which is seen when a section is examined microscopically. The irregularly branching epithelial columns or tubes, being cut across in different relations to their length, appear as separate cell areas occupying spaces in the stroma. The stro7na varies greatly both in character and amount, and takes an important share in modify- ing the characters of the tumour. In some instances it merely forms slender strands carrying blood-vessels between the masses of cancer cells, whilst in others it forms the bulk of the growth and the alveoli of epithelial cells are few and small. In its character also, the stroma j^resents striking variations, consisting sometimes of dense fibrous tissue with scanty cell-elements, and at other times of richly cellular vascular tissue, almost like granulation tissue in appearance. The varying proportion of the epithelial elements and stroma, and variations in the character of the latter, explain the differences noticed in the consistence of carcinomatous tumours, these differences being so marked that whilst some growths are extremely dense and hard, others are soft and almost brain-like. From what has been said it will be evident that the fundamental criterion upon which the recognition of a carcinoma depends is the epitlielial nature of the essential cell-elements. This can only occasion- ally be proved by tracing a direct continuity between the tumour- cells and a surface or glandular epithelium, but even when this is not possible, valuable evidence may be obtained by noticing that the cells lie in immediate contact, or are merely separated by an almost imperceptible amount of intercellular substance, and that no exten- sions of the stroma or blood-vessels penetrate into the cell-masses (Figs. 127, 128). The line of demarcation, too, between the cell-masses and the surrounding stroma or other tissues is very sharply defined, espe- cially when, as in sj)ecimens treated with fixing reagents, the masses of cells shrink away from the tissue surrounding them (Fig. 127). As cancer always arises in epithelium, it is not surprising that the irregularly proliferating cells of the new growth often retain in some degree the morphological characters of the particular form of