TETANUS By F. victor MILWARD, B.C., F.R.C.S. Tetanus is a bacterial disease, characterized by an incubation period of variable length, by tonic and clonic contractions of the voluntary muscles, and by a high death-rate. The Eegistrar-General's Reports show that an average of 250 deaths from tetanus has occurred per annum, and that the proportion of female to male deaths is as 1 to 3'15. The mortality of the disease is to be reckoned at from 80 to 90 per cent., although it has been claimed by Kohler and others that since the introduction of antitoxin it has fallen to less than 50 per cent. However, English statistics do not bear out this state- ment. The bacillus of tetanus resides in the soil, especially in the proximity of dwellings and stables, and the disease principally affects the inhabitants of populous centres, country districts being relatively immune. Variety of wounds and mode of infection.—The wound which gives entrance to the tetanus bacillus may be of any variety, and in any situation. If it is large, lacerated, soiled, or suppurating, or if it contains a foreign body, so much the more is the complication to be feared. If, on the other hand, it is imperceptible, insignificant, or if it heals without suppuration, it is likely to be asso- ciated with the milder type of the disease, though even in such cases the chances of a fatal termination are exceedingly grave. Tetanus has long been known to complicate surgical operations, even when aseptic conditions have prevailed, but happily it is a rare sequel. Richardson has called attention to this question in a paper of great interest [Brit. Med. Journ., 1809, i. 948). In 82 cases collected from the St.. Tliovias's Hospital Reports (vol. xxix.), from 1886 to 1901, the different kinds of injury are given as follows : Wounds (incised, lacerated, contused, fractured), 41 ; parts crushed, 10 ; compound fractures, 7 ; burns and scalds, 6 ; operations, 3 ; ulcer, abscess, whitlow, gimshot wound, cut throat, broken corn, scabietic pustule, infected umbilicus, furuncle, 1 each ; no apparent breach of surface, 6. Incubation period.—In a series of .58 cases the period of in. 88o