688 SPINAL ANALGESIA By LAWRIE McGAVIN, F.R.C.S.Eng. Historical.-—The idea of inducing analgesia by the local applica- tion of drugs to the spinal cord originated with Leonard Corning of New York, who in 1885 used a 2 per cent, solution of cocaine, first on a dog, and secondly on the human subject. His injection was, however, directed intentionally into the extradural space, and not into the spinal theca. The result was a somewhat irregular and imperfect analgesia. Fourteen years later. Bier, elaborating the method of Corning, succeeded in carrying out six major operations under the influence of a 0'5 per cent, solution of cocaine injected directly into the spinal theca ; the average amount of the drug used by Bier was O'OOS grm. By this means he succeeded in obtaining analgesia rising to the umbilicus in from five to ten minutes, and last- ing from twenty-five to forty minutes. The chief after-effects noted by Bier and Hildebrandt, who submitted themselves to experimental injection, were headache and nausea of some duration. From this time the method was investigated on the Continent by many workers, with varying results. Among these were Tuffier, Seldowitsch, and Reclus, the la?t of whom in 1901 issued a warn- ing against the use of cocaine as a spinal analgesic. In this country the method was not employed till 1902, when eighteen cases were reported by Arnold Lee, who employed the method of Tuffier, using cocaine in 0'5 per cent, solution. In this year also Littlewood pub- lished eleven successful cases. About this time, owing to the dangers of cocaine, tropacocaine was adopted by most workers abroad. Reclus had recommended this drug in 1901, and Schwarz had successfully employed it in sixteen cases in doses of from 0'015 to 0"05 grm. for operations lasting two hours, and had found no ill effects from its use. Guinard in 1903 and Rydygier and Stoltz in 1904 had also recommended it. In 1904, Fourneau introduced stovaine, which was soon adopted by Chaput, Sonnenburg, and Bier. In 190-5, Impens and Stotzer employed alypin, the latter using doses