TUMOURS 534 to excision, but in view of the superficial nature of the disease and the entirely local character of its malignancy, it is not surprising that it was early selected for a trial of the X-ray treatment. The results, both with X-rays and with radium, and especially the latter, have been very encouraging, and very striking results have been obtained also with zinc ions, as first successfully practised by Leduc in 1903. The method of treatment by ionization depends on the fact that the electrically charged atoms or molecules of a chemical substance are carried actually into the substance of the cells in a way quite different from that resulting from the simple injection of a solution. The method of applying the treatment to a small rodent ulcer is thus described by Lewis Jones, who has had wide experience of it: " The surface is covered by three or four layers of lint wet with a 2 per cent, solution of the sulphate or chloride of zinc ; a zinc electrode of suitable size is applied and connected to the positive pole of an ordinary medical continuous current battery, the circuit is completed through a second indifferent pad electrode, and the current turned on to 5 ma. to 10 ma., and kept on for fifteen minutes. The magnitude of the current must be proportional to the size of the area. Leduc has suggested 3 ma. for each square centimetre." If it is thought advisable, the pain may be lessened by first moistening the positive pad with cocaine hydrochlorate. Carcinoma of the lips is common in the lower but rare in the upper lip. Thus, of 211 cases collected by Rowntree, in only 6 was the upper lip the starting-point of the disease. Cancer of the lips is much more common in men than in women, and in a large pro - portion of cases results from the irritation of the stem of a tobacco pipe, especially the rough, hot, short stem of the labourer's clay-pipe, and the name "country-man's lip" has been applied to it (Fig. 110). The average age at which the disease begins is 55 years. It usuallj' com- mences on the edge of the lower lip, about midway between the middle line and the angle of the mouth, as a small, warty growth, fissure, or ulcer. Beneath the surface a definite button-like induration can be felt even in the early stages. As the disease advances, an irregular ulcer having the characters already described in squamous carcinoma of other parts of the skin results. The lymphatic glands first invaded are those of the submental or submaxillary groups. Carcinoma beginning in the upper lip, especially if near the middle line, tends to spread to the alveolar border and to the columella, but laterally shows sometimes a tendency to be limited by a line a short distance from the angle of the mouth. The glands chiefly affected are the submaxillary, the maxillary which lie on the surface of the lower jaw at the anterior border of the masseter, and sometimes the buccinator group which lie in the substance of the cheek.