196 SUPPURATION may be observed stretching from it towards the nearest group of lymphatic glands. Lymphangitis indicates a severe infection. The tissues may be so choked with the exudation of serum and leucocytes that occlusion of the blood-vessels may occur and cause gangrene of the skin. When an abscess of this kind occurs in the deeper tissues the skin may be separated from them by so large a collection of pus as to be deprived of its blood supply, and gangrene may result from this cause. The occurrence of suppuration in a hard, brawny skin is marked by a soft spot in its centre, which can be detected by gently examining the surface with the finger. The presence of pus more deeply situated is marked by fluctuation, pain, throbbing, increase in the size of the part, and oedema of the superjacent sldn. Crepitation is a more common sign in acute diffuse suppuration than in acute circumscribed abscess, though it is rare in both cases ; it is due to a gas-forming micro-organism, to the decomposition of the tissues affected, or to air having gained admission to the abscess by the establishment of a communication between it and the respiratory or digestive tract. The constitutional signs are more severe than in acute circum- scribed abscess ; they may be associated with the types of temperature which indicate septicaemia or pyaemia, acute or chronic, as the case may be. Treatment of acute diffuse suppuration.—The same general principles must be employed as in the treatment of localized abscesses ; but incisions must be free and extensive, and two or more incisions must be made in those cases in which the skin is likely to become gangrenous—as in hard and brawny lesions. Should extensive gangrene occur, slcin-graftiug will be necessary after the separation of the dead tissues. Where putrefaction exists, large drainage-tvibes must be inserted in the most dependent parts. In spite of these measures, the process may still continue to spread and may necessitate more incisions. Hot local antiseptic baths of perchloride of mercury (1-8,000) or sanitas, or large hot antiseptic poultices constantly applied, may be beneficial. Vigorous constitutional treatment is called for to reinforce the power of immunity which is evidently laclcing in these cases. The vaccine treatment is specially indicated ; and in those cases in which the streptococcus is the agent of infection, antistreptococcic serum should be tried as an empirical measure. SUBACUTE ABSCESS Subacute abscess may be caused by those micro-organisms which are capable of inducing acute suppuration, or by those which are