ELEPHANTIASIS 911 known that the patient has filarial embryos in his blood the diagnosis of these recurrent attacks of fever is very obvious. Treatment must follow the usual lines for lymphangitis of other origin ; special care must be taken, by massage and bandaging, to promote the absorption of the inflammatory products. 3. Elephantiasis of the scrotum and penis.—Elephantiasis is by far the most common manifestation of tilariasis, and is very prevalent in filarial countries, especially in Cochin-China and Samoa, though it has a very wide distribution. It has a special predilection for certain sites, such as the scrotum and the lower extremities, but is also met with in the arms, breasts, vulva, scalp, and in circumscribed skin areas in the limbs, trunk, and neck. It is a natural result of blocking of the lymph-stream, the first symptoms being usually ushered in by an attack of fever and lymph- angitis. If the obstruction is sufficiently localized to shut out the scrotum from the lymph circulation, there will be, first, some general enlargement ; the scrotum will seem more pendulous and the skin too abundant, generally softened and thickened, and either quite smooth or dotted over with tiny vesicles distended with or discharging lymph. Sooner or later an attack of lymphangitis occurs, which, after sub- siding, leaves the scrotum much larger and the skin much tougher and tliicker. Increasing in size with each attack, the scrotum may assume enormous proportions (Fig. 249), weights as much as 224 lb. being reported. As the scrotal swelling enlarges it drags with it the skin of the lower part of the abdomen and as much loose sldn as possible from the perineum, buttocks, and thighs. The penis, which remains firmly attached to the symphysis pubis by its suspensory ligament, is dragged to an enormous length ; the prepuce and the skin of the body of the organ being pulled down to form an elongated hood, which becomes buried in the mass as a long funnel, in the depths of which is the glans penis with the orifice of the urethra. In a mode- rately severe case the enlargement of the scrotum is equally dis- tributed over its whole surface, and about halfway down the anterior surface of the swelling the depression, the external opening of the funnel just mentioned, presents. No trace of penis or of spermatic cords is seen, nor can they be felt, in the mass. The skin is thick and rough, does not pit on pressure, and appears very like coarse pig-skin, the hair-follicles, often much hypertrophied, standing out prominently at a considerable distance from each other, and usually tipped with thick, twisted, bristly hairs, though sometimes the scrotum is quite Ijald. The consistence of the mass, as a whole, is soft, though the lower part is frequently harder and more prominent than the rest owing to thickening of the gubernaculum testis and to passive con- gestion at the bottom of the swelling. The prominence is due in some