893 ANTHRAX By PHILIP TURNER, M.S., F.R.G.S. Etiology.—-Anthrax is a disease which is caused by inoculation with a specific micro-organism, the Bacillus anthracis. The disease is essentially one which attacks animals, especially cattle, goats, sheep, horses, and mice, while carnivorous animals are much less susceptible. Outbreaks are rare in this country, but it is more com- mon abroad, especially in the East. When it occurs in man it is the result of contact with the living or dead bodies or hides of infected animals. The Bacillus anthracis is a rod-shaped, non-motile organism, re- markable for its large size (about totttt iiich in length) and for the readiness with which it may be identified. When growing within tlie tissues of a living animal it multiplies by fission, and no spores are formed. If, however, blood, or any discharge from an infected animal be exposed to the air, small round spores are formed within the bacillus. The vitality of these spores is remarkable, and under ordinary conditions they may survive for several years, remaining capable of development and of j^roducing the disease should they reach a suitable environment. They resist the action of many antiseptics for a considerable time, but are destroyed by immer- sion in boiling water for from fifteen to twenty minutes. (See also pp. 59-63.) In both man and the lower animals anthrax may commence as a cutaneous lesion, or it may primarily attack the respiratory or ali- mentary tracts. In the former situation, in man, it is known as malig- nant pustule or charhon. When it attacks the respiratory tract it is known as woolsorter's disease, since this variety commonly occurs as the result of the inhalation of infected debris by those whose work leads them to manipulate the wool or hair of infected animals. Malignant pustule is the commoner form, and is of the greater interest to the surgeon. It is produced by direct inoculation of an abrasion of the skin with the bacillus, the infective material being usually imported hides. The disease generally occurs in those who have to handle these skins, either in the raw condition, or during or after