CHYLURIA—SNAKE BITES 917 times may become blood-tinged ; at other times it may be quite watery. The chyluria is sometimes remittent. The course and prognosis of a case of chyluria are very uncertain. Sometimes it all clears up, only to return after a long interval, and to disappear as unexpectedly as before. Continued chyluria causes marked anaemia and debility. It may come on for the first time during pregnancy, or be aggravated by this condition as further ruptures of the dilated pelvic lymphatics take place. Violent exercise of any sort is also credited with inducing an attack, hvit usually no certain cause can be discovered. The treatment resolves itself into rest and elevation of the pelvis and the lower part of the body, to assist the collateral lymphatic cir- culation as much as possible. The general diet must be restricted, and as much fatty food given as can be borne. Beyond this, and attention to the general health and to the bowels and other excretory organs, no treatment is known. Should a rupture of a dilated lymphatic varix take place into the peritoneal cavity, chylous ascites occurs. This is usually first diag- nosed by exploration. In all respects such a case must be treated as any other ascites. In one case under my observation the peritoneum contained milky fluid, in which Looss discovered the protozoan para- site Leydinia gemmipara, the occurrence of which and its faculty of producing milky ascites must be remembered. Again, should a rujjture occur into the lumen of the intestine in any part, chylous diarrhoea will ensue and will persist as long as the opening remains patent. SNAKE AND SCORPION BITES From a surgical point of view snake bites may be taken collectively and considered in order of tlieir severity. The j^rognosis depends upon the dose of venom injected with the bite, its relative toxicity, the site of injection, and the age and power cf resistance of the individual bitten. 1. The bite may be almost immediately fatal from paralysis of respiration and of ^the heart, when an overpowering dose of very toxic venom is injected, as may happen in cobra or krait bite. If by chance the venom is injected directly into a vein, it leads to a general thrombosis, vomiting, collapse, and death. 2. The outlook in most cases, however, is not so entirely hopeless. Thus, in the case of viper bites—Russell's viper, the rattlesnake, the Australian tiger-snake, the Egyptian horned viper—there is usually an intense burning pain around the two punctures of the bite and local redness, with a rapidly spreading oedema, often almost purple