GONTRA-INDICATIONS AND ADVANTAGES 691 (6) Prostatectomy, especially suprapubic, (c) Intravesical operations generally. 3. In operations where extreme relaxation of muscles and the absence of straining and post-operative vomiting are especially desired. («) Appendicectomy. {b) Colostomy. (c) Enterectomy. (d) All pelvic operations. {e) All hernia\ especially those in which filigrees are used. 4. Where the operation involves great shock, e.g.— (a) Double amputations. (b) Amputation at the hip-joint. (c) Acute intestinal obstruction. 5. Where the patient suffers great nervous apprehension of anaesthesia. 6. Where subjection of pain in great emergencies is desired, as in time of war, when many patients may have to wait their turn for operation, or when the wounded have to be transported to a distance in springiess waggons. Centra-indications.—Much difference of opinion exists in this branch of the subject. Many Continental writers mention old age, extreme youth, atheroma, sepsis, syphilis, gangrene, and nervous diseases as unsuitable conditions ; possibly extreme youth and acute sepsis may be admitted. Syphilis is no greater an objection to spinal analgesia than to other surgical procedures. As regards gangrene, the use of spinal analgesics, unless combined with some preparation of suprarenal gland, does not appear to initiate it nor promote its spread when present. Advantages of spinal analgesia.—1. Pre-operative starvation is neither necessary nor wise. The patient may with advantage be fed before, after, and, if necessary, during operation ; the great gain to elderly and feeble subjects is obvious. 2. Nervous apprehension.-—In some patients, especially nervous women, the dread of general aniTcsthesia amounts to positive terror. When the fact is realized by the patient that no pain will be felt although consciousness is retained, the phenomena of shock, which are partly due to fear, are abolished. 3. The saving of time.—The period required for the estab- lishment of analgesia varies from four to ten minutes, and, as cleansing operations can be commenced at once, the delay attendant upon general anaesthesia is entirely avoided. Perineal operations can always be commenced in from four to five minutes.