98 APPLIED BACTERIOLOGY No matter what variety of vaccine is employed, the method of preparation is the same. The required organism, freshly isolated from the human subject, or recently passed through the body of a laboratory animal, is cultivated upon a suitable medium—usually agar or blood-agar—mider such conditions of time, temperatm-e, etc., as experience shows will give the largest number of living virile individuals. The resulting bacterial growth is scraped from the surface of the medium and emulsified in a test-tube with a O'l per cent, solution of sodium chloride ; some glass beads are added, and the emulsion thoroughly agitated in an electrical or other form of mechanical shaker, in order to secure a perfectly homogeneous sus- pension. The number of bacteria present in a miit volume of the emulsion is then ascertained. This can be done by means of a Thoma- Zeiss counting chamber, or preferably by Wright's method, which consists in mixing equal quantities of the emulsion and the blood from a normal individual, spreading the mixture in a thin film on a slide, staining with Leishman's or Jenner's stain, and, with the help of the microscope, estimating the ratio existing between the red cells and the bacteria in the preparation. Now, assuming 5,000 millions of red cells per cubic centimetre as a constant for normal blood, the number of germs per cubic centimetre of emulsion is easily calculated. The emulsion is next sterilized by exposure in a water bath for one hour to that temperature (usually between 55° C. and 60° C.) which is known to destroy the bacterium concerned in that time with the least possible alteration in the constitution of its protoplasm, and the sterility of this " killed culture " controlled by attempts to sub- cultivate portions of it in or upon other media. The next step is to dilute the emulsion with some weak, non- irritating, antiseptic solution ^ (with a view to prevent subsequent contamination) so that each cubic centimetre shall contain a standard number of germs—e.g. 1,000 millions or 100 millions—as from such an emulsion various doses of the vaccine containing smaller numbers of bacteria can readily be measured for injection into the patient. Finally, the vaccine is either preserved for use in bulk in rubber-capped bottles, from which the necessary dose can be taken as required, or separate doses are measured out and each put up in a small glass ampoule, the neck of wliich is subsequently sealed in the blow-pipe flame. The above method is modified somewhat in the case of vaccines prepared from the tubercle bacillus. In the first place, the slow growth of this organism necessitates the use of cultures which have been incubated for several weeks. One form of vaccine, Imown as bacillary emulsion (B.E.), is prepared by scraping the growth of the 1 Those in general use are phenol O'o per cent., lysol 0'25 per cent., and trikresol 0*25 per cent.