ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBED ABSCESS 179 cells, increase and play an important part in phagocytosis, the main and most obvious proliferation occurs in the supporting con- nective tissue. In forty-eight hours the local proliferation is more marked, and young blood-vessels can be seen forming in the multiplying tissues. This proliferation continues, but even when the abscess has reached its greatest maturity and shows no further tendency to sj)read, and even when the clinical signs prove recovery, the whole circum- ference is not surrounded, as might be imagined, by dense fibrous abscess wall. There may be many points where the pus cells and micro-organisms lie apparently in immediate juxtaposition to the adipose or fibrous tissues. Thus the local condition is recovering in the absence of mechanical limitation, and therefore, as stated above, recovery and localization of the process cannot be due to a circum- scription which does not exist. The older writers attached too great importance to the cir- cumscription of an abscess by means of the newly formed fibrous tissue ; believing it to be the predominating efi'ort of nature to effect the final cure of the malady, they neglected the whole question of local and general actively acquired immunity. In considering the value of an abscess wall and the attitude to it which the surgeon should adopt in treatment, the reader must bear in mind that there are other and more fundamental curative forces at work than the incomplete enclosure of an abscess by fibrous tissue, forces which are specific against the particular micro-organism that has caused the disease. The attitude of a surgeon towards the margins of an abscess should be the same whether the lesion be old enough to be more or less encysted or not. I have shown that at the end of forty-eight hours the micro- organisms are found in abundance round the margin of the abscess. There is no fully developed wall anywhere at this age, so were the surgeon to scrape this part he would liberate micro-organisms into new tissues and lymphatic spaces. At any age of an abscess its margin should be treated with very great care and tenderness. The importance of leaving undisturbed every part of an abscess wall is greater in some infections than in others. However, in treatment it is wiser always to deal very tenderly with the living margin of an abscess, not mainly because its mechanical disturbance ma}^ disseminate bacteria, but rather because mechanical injury lowers the local immunity and provides a more acceptable nidus for the bacteria. ^^'hen pus has collected it should be carefully removed before attempting any rough manipulations which it may be necessary to inflict on the margin of the abscess in order to remove an appendix, for instance, or a Fallopian tube. The pus having been removed, it is quite safe, in most cases which are not of a tuberculous nature, to manipulate parts as freely as necessary ; in fact, it is wiser to remove