ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBED ABSCESS 177 meclianism of the process is still a matter of speculation. The faculty of amceboid movement which leucocytes are said to possess is a tempting explanation to advance of their mode of progress from the blood-vessel to the seat of disease. The facts that light, heat, galvanism, gravity, chemicals, atmospheric pressure, and so forth, are capable of attracting or repelling leucocytes, many plants, and lower organisms, has been demonstrated ; one or more of these attracting influences would readily supply the force which calls the amosboid power of leucocytes into action, causing them to progress in a certain direction, viz. towards the chemical attraction at the seat of disease. Other observers maintain that even the amceboid action of the leucocyte may be explained by differences in surface tension, hrst between it and the injured vessel wall, and then between it and the tissues with which it subsequently comes in contact : and that besides this difference in surface tension the progress of the leucocyte towards the abscess is aided by the direction of flow taken by the fluid exudate. The fluid element of pus is yellow or yellowish-green, and transparent. It does not coagulate spontaneously, but does so on the addition of nitric acid. Many of the substances held in solution are products of the micro-organism. Besides the toxins, to which allusion has just been made, there are other bacterial substances, such as cytolysin, leucolysin, and hajmolysin. The substances produced in the tissues by staphylococci, Strephjcoccus pyogenes, and B. pt/ocijaneus possess the property of destroying leuco- cytes (leucolysin). Leucocytes treated with this substance are iden- tical in appearance with those seen in pus. Denys and Van der Velde separated from the pleural exudate of rabbits inoculated with staphy- lococcus a substance they termed " leucocidine "'; it is liighly poisonous and kills leucocytes in a few seconds. The exudate loses this property upon being heated for ten minutes at a temperature of 6*1'' C. These authors have obtained an antibody, which they term anti-leuco- cidine," and which is found to be capaljle of neutralizing the action of leucocidine. The fluid element of pus also contains autolytic substances derived from the destroyed cells of the host. Like blood-plasma, from which it mainly comes, the lluid element of pus contains no iibrinogen. It is richer in the proteins, serum albumin and serum globulin, than is ordinary lymph. Tlie fluid of pus also contains albunioscs and peptones derived from the killed leucocytes and other tissue cells. Lecithin is more abundant than in blood. Leucin and tyrosin have l)een found. Sodium chloride is present, also carbonate and phosphate, to wliicli the alkalinity of pus is due. Sir Almroth Wright has demonstrated the presence of substances M