193 DRAINAGE OF ABSCESSES method of the two. Some surgeons apply pure carbolic acid to the tissues surrounding the inside of the cavity after scraping away the necrotic tissue, but in ordinary staphylococcus lesions this is quite unnecessary. The hopes of killing micro-organisms liberated by the scraping process are hardly justifiable, whatever application may be employed. In practice I have had better results from using fuming nitric acid than pure carbolic acid in acute suppurations due to B. mallei. The nitric acid may induce a greater flow of serum than the carbolic acid, so the better results obtained may be explained by the encouragement of conditions which stimulate local immunity rather than by the destruction of micro-organisms. Drainage.—The best drainage is obtained by the use of india- rubber tubing, as large as possible, and perforated at intervals. Small holes are essential in abdominal work, as I have seen a coil of intestine fixed irreducibly in a large hole made in a large tube. After insertion, the external extremity should be level with the skin surface, and a loop of silkworm gut should be tied in the tube to act as a guide in case it disappears within the cavity ; for want of this precaution tubes have been lost in the antrum of Highmore, the pleural and peritoneal cavities, and have given rise to prolonged suffering in consequence. Drainage is essential in abscesses which are deeply situated and in bony cavi- ties ; but in the ordinary superficial abscess of soft parts drainage, except for a very short period, is unnecessary ; in fact, it is contra- indicated, because the tube forms a convenient pathway down which contaminating micro-organisms can gain access. To prevent a drainage- tube from becoming a channel for the growth of micro organisms from the skin, I have adopted the plan of wrapping double cyanide gauze like a collar round the extremity of the tube which is in contact with the skin. After a few hours the tube only drains the cavity which it fills ; and, moreover, being hfeless, it possesses no intrinsic power to aid local immunity. In fact, I have constantly observed that so long as a tube is present the micro-organisms which caused the disease can be found on it and in a highly virulent condition, and that the discharge of serum rapidly ceases on removing the tube. Gauze " wicks " do more to dam up a wound than to drain it. If it be feared that the epithehal surfaces in contact with one another may obstruct the outflow of an abscess cavity, an elliptical excision of the opposing surfaces will prevent it, and obviate the necessity for a tube. Many abscesses, such as those due to B. tuberculosis or to pneumococcus in pure culture, do well if stitched up again after being emptied. Hilton's method of opening an abscess is employed when pus has collected near important structures, e.g. the blood-vessels and nerves of the neck. An incision is made in the skin, then a closed sinus forceps is forced through the intervening tissues into the abscess cavity, N