TUMOURS 532 so commonly in squamous-celled carcinomas, and thus cell-nests are not present, and, further, the cells are smaller and more irregular in shape. In the larger cell-masses the central cells may undergo a granular degeneration, and small cystic spaces occasionally result. The stroma usually consists of a richly cellular fibrous tissue. The structure characteristic of rodent ulcer is found not only in the early papular stage, but also in the basaand edges of the later ulcerated stage. The origin of the growth has been the occasion of much discussion, some pathologists believing that it arises in the skin itself, and others regarding it as a carcinoma of one or another of the appendages—hair- follicles, sebaceous glands, or sweat-glands. On the whole, the view most generally accepted is that the growth usually arises in the basal layers of the epidermis or hair-follicles (basal-celled carcinoma), but that it may also originate in the other appendages. The small, firm, red pimple in which the disease usually starts, often after remaining unchanged for long periods or only slightly enlarging, becomes later covered with a small crust, on removing which the papule is found to be superficially ulcerated, and gradually the papule is replaced by an ulcer, which very slowly extends, chiefly in area. Such a rodent ulcer presents a pinkish granular or furrowed surface, often covered by crusts, and the edges may be almost clean cut, but more often are rolled or slightly beaded. The base and edges are often distinctly indurated, and sooner or later the ulcer becomes adherent to the deeper tissues. As the ulcer slowly and painlessly increases in area, it also usually increases in depth, and when occurring in its favourite positions on the face or anterior part of the scalp, it may open up the nasal cavity, invade the orbit, or by destroying the underlying skull expose the dura mater. It is not uncommon to notice some temporary attempt at healing at part of the edge of the ulcer, but it is rarely that this proceeds far enough to cause any cicatricial shrinking, and thus, should part of one of the eyelids be destroyed, the remaining portion shows little or no displacement or interference with its movements. Rodent ulcer usually occurs on the upper part of the face, especially in the neigh- bourhood of the inner canthus, or on the frontal and temporal regions of the scalp. In other situations it is very rare. It is a striking feature of the disease that it may progressively extend dm'ing many years and produce great loss of substance without any appreciable effect on the general health, and without causing secondary glandular deposits or metastases. In its ulcerated form rodent carcinoma is rarely met with before middle age, but often in such cases a pimple has been present for many years. It is more common in men than in women. Sequeira has recorded the case of a girl in whom a pimple on the lower eyelid, first noticed in the sixteenth