SCALDS OF THE PHARYNX—ELECTRIC BURNS 301 diate tracheotomy. In any case, the relatives should be warned of the great danger of such an accident as a scalded throat. When difficulty in respiration indicates the onset of oBdema, exa- mination of the upper aperture of the larynx with the finger will reveal the great swelling of the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. The epiglottis also shares in the oedema, but not usually to any marked degree. The milder degrees of the oedematous swelling can be treated by scarifica- tion, the use of a steam tent, and doses of antimony wine. Fre- quently, however, the time at which these milder measures would have been serviceable has already passed when the surgeon sees the child. As the oedema of the glottis increases and still further hinders the entrance of air into the trachea, the breathing becomes more and more laboured, as is evidenced by intercostal and suprasternal indrawing and by increasing cyanosis. If the windpij)e has to be ojjened, high tracheotomy or iutercrico- tliyrotomy is the most suitable operation. The mortality after trache- otomy in such cases is very high, and it is therefore well to emplov intubation whenever possible. This method has considerable advan- tages. It may be used in much earlier stages, when one is doubtful as to how far the oedema will go and when tracheotomy would therefore be unjustifiable. Being used early, it keeps the air-passage free, and thus avoids several hours, perhaps, of laboured and increasingly difficult respiration, exhausting to the patient and tiring out the heart, which will presently be taxed to its uttermost during the stage of acute inflammation in the bronchi and bronchioles that so often follows. As a cutting operation is avoided, the patient escapes the added danger of blood getting into the air-passages. Of course, in- tubation implies the necessity for skilled assistance being always within a moment's call, such as is usually only obtainable in hospital. After the danger of suffocation has been overcome, the jjatient still has to run the risk of acute capillary bronchitis and broncho-pneu- monia, which may prove fatal from heart-failure. Out of six cases temporarily relieved by tracheotomy, only one survived. Out of three cases treated l)y intubation, two recovered. ELECTRIC BURNS AND SHOCKS Under this heading are considered those injuries which are pro- duced by lightning and by powerful electric currents. Burns from lightning and electricity may be classified in the same manner as those caused by fire. There are, however, certain absolute differ- ences between electric and ordinary burns, in that, according to Mally, the former are painless, dry, aseptic, and usually more or less round in shape, while the reaction of the tissues is extremely slow. These characters are due to the rapidity with which the injuries are produced.