697 MAKING THE INJECTION spines are easily distinguished, and any of their interspaces may be utilized. The first or second space should be chosen since, owing to the decrease in diameter of the theca towards the sacrum, the lower spaces require greater accuracy of direction in introducing the needle. With the patient in the lateral position it is well to note the posi- tion of the spines above and below the proposed site of puncture, since there is a tendency for the spine to sag in this posture. The injection.—The patient being in position on the table, the licdil cud of ivIiicJi is sliglitly lowered, or the pelvis slightly raised, the compress is removed and the part sponged with spirit. The site of puncture being marked by the tip of the forefinger of the left hand, the needk^ carrj'ing its stylet is held like a pen in the right (Fig. 19-3). The skin is slightly frozen by the ethyl chloride spray (too long an applica- tion of this is apt to turn the point of the needle), and the needle, being entered just below the spinous process above, is pushed directly for- wards for about an inch and a half. The stylet is now withdrawn and the needle again pushed onwards till the appearance of fluid indicates that the theca has been entered : this is usually at a depth of from 2"5 to 2-75 inch. Experience soon enables one to recognize the sensa- tion of puncturing the dura. About 5 c.c. of the fluid is allowed to escape, and the cannula, mounted on the syringe, which has previ- ously been filled to the desired dose-mark and freed from air bubbles, is introduced into the needle up to the shoulder. The injection is gently made, and the needle and cannula are withdrawn together. It is quite unnecessary to seal the puncture wound in any way. The patient is left for a minute or so on his side, the head being well raised on a j)illoiv, at the end of which time he is gently rolled over on to his back, a sterilized towel being placed beneath the lumbar region. The head is kept well raised, so that the foramen magnum is always on a higher level than the fourth and fifth dorsal spines, which should form the lowest point of the back on the table. The puncture rarely causes any pain, even wheji the spray is omitted. If, however, as occasion- ally happens, any of the cords of the cauda equina, or the periosteum of the vertebrae should be touched, pain is at once felt, and in the former case its reference to one side or other indicates the erroi' in direction of the needle. The flow of fluid varies greatly in its activity ; and it is found that a feeble flow generally precedes a feeble and irregular analgesia. Indications of successful injection, with relative times of occurrence.—The evidences of the solution having reaclii'd the spinal theca may, in their chronological order, he enumerated as follows :—