THE MENINGOCOCCUS 57 disease. It is most commonly found within tlie cells of the inflam- matory exudate, and hence has obtained the name " intracellularis." The coccus varies remarkably in size even in the same culture, but on an average its diameter is 0-5-1 jx. It usually appears in the form of a diplococcus, but may at times bs found occurring in tetrads. In the diplococcal arrangement the neighbouring sides of the two ■cocci are considerably flattened, and the organisms have the shape of coffee-beans, in this respect resembling the gonococcus. It is non- capsulated, non-flagellated, and non-motile. It stains readily with ordinary basic aniline dyes, but different individuals in the same film stain very differently. Usually the larger and the smaller cocci are only feebly stained, while those of average size stain very deeply. It is Gram-negative. The organism is not always easy to cultivate, but usually grows fairly well on the ordinary media at 37^0. It is aerobic, and will not grow in the absence of oxygen. It develops much more freely on the addition of glucose (2 per cent.) to the media, and grows even better on the surfaca of serum-agar. In bouillon it produces a slight turbidity, and exhibits a tendency to form a surface pellicle. A small ■deposit appears at the foot of the tube. In gelatin at 22° C. no growth occurs. On an agar-slope there is a fair growth of small, greyish, shiny colonies which sometimes gradually assume a yellowish tinge. In a stab-culture, growth appears along the track of the needle, decreasing rapidly from above downwards, and there is a free growth on the surface round the point of puncture. This latter feature is of value as a distinguishing character between this organism and the streptococcus and pneumococcus ; it is, however, shared by the gonococcus. On serum-agar, growth is much richer than on a simple agar-slope, and within 24 hours colonies may reach a diameter of 2-4 mm. The organism grows well in milk, and does not cause coagulation of the casein. It usually also grows fairly well on the surface of potato at 37° C, and after some days develops a distinctly yellowish-brown hue. Its optimum temperature is about 37° C, and its limits of growth are from 25° C. to 42° C. It is killed by heating at 65° C. for half an hour, or by a few minutes" exposure at 80° C. It is extremely sensitive to drying, and also to the action of formalin in weak solutions (1-20,000). In artificial culture it dies out very rapidly unless transplanted at least once a day. It is only slightly pathogenetic for animals ; but several observers liave succeeded in producing cerebro-spinal meningitis in the goat and monkey by inoculating cultures into the spinal canal. In the human subject it is found in cases of the disease in the pus which covers the meninges and in the fluid taken by a lumbar puncture.