MALIGNANT GROWTHS 475 various situations, is of little practical value as a guide to foretelling the probable course of any individual case. Death from malignant disease may mercifully result from pro- gressive enfeeblement resulting from widely spread metastases, but too often it is preceded by a period of distressing pain and all the horrors of a fetid, discharging Avound. Special complications too numerous to mention may hasten the fatal result, ^particularly when the primary tumour or its secondar}'' deposits involve the respiratory or alimentary tracts. In speaking of the natural course of a malignant growth it has been stated that it tends continuously to extend, and finally to prove fatal. Such a result is, however, not absolutely constant, and there are on record a few authentic cases in which a malignant growth has under- gone spontaneous involution and apparent cure. Before accepting a record of such a case as conclusive it is essential that the tumour should have been examined histologically and its nature confirmed by a competent observer. Many cases are on record in which a tumour, apparently of a malignant nature, has disappeared. This has especially been noted in the case of certain abdominal tumours, which, after being examined by an exploratory operation and ])to- nounced to be malignant and unsuited for removal, have subsequently subsided. It can hardly be doubted that in the majority of such cases the diagnosis was erroneous, for mimicry of malignant disease by various chronic inflammatory conditions is well known, the differ- entiation being impossible without the use of the microscope. Godlee has recorded a case in which a hard tumour involving the gall-bladder was explored and pronounced to be undoubtedly malignant. Subse- quently a gall-stone was passed from the bowel, and the tumour, which was certainly inflammatory, entirely subsided. We have ourselves put on record a case in which a large retroperitoneal tumour, having all the semblance of a hsemorrhagic sarcoma, gradually and completely disappeared after an exj^loratory operation. Evidence was, however, obtained which showed that the patient, a young man, was the subject of haemophilia, and there can be little doubt that the '" tumour " in this case was entirely the result of an extensive hpemorrhage behind the peritoneum. Every surgeon could cite similar instances from his own experience, and their great importance in the consideration of reputed cures of malignant growths by various methods of non-operative treatment is obvious. One of the most striking instances of the spontaneous disappearance of an undoubtedly malignant growth has been recorded by Pearce Gould. The case was that of a woman whose left breast was removed in May, 1890, for a hard carcinoma, the nature of which was confii'med by microscopical examination. In July, 1892, the diseased axillary