SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 14 be clearly understood that neither in these cases nor in the case of light are the beneficial therapeutic eiiects of these agencies in any way dependent on their bactericidal power. They are entirely attribut- able to the tissue reaction which their application induces, and not to a direct destruction of the bacteria lying within the tissues. (2) Electricity.—Electric currents (both continuous and alternating) have been supposed to exert an injurious influence on bacterial life. It is, however, certain that the effects described were entirely indirect, and resulted fi-oni electrolytic liberation of strong chemical disinfectants (e.g. hydrogen peroxide). If non-polarizable electrodes are employed, these effects are not seen. (3) Atmospheric pressure.—This is a matter of relative indifference to bacteria. They may be exposed in culture to a pressure of several hundred atmospheres without apparent injury. (d) Lack of food and moisture.—Different micro-organisms vary greatly in their resistance to the unfavourable influences of lack of food and moisture. Thus, the cholera vibrio, for example, dies in two or three hours when subjected to drying, while other organisms such as the Staphylococcus pyogenes and the B. tuberculosis can survive the process for many months at the least. Even such bacilli as the diph- theria and typhoid organisms, which are in general somewhat delicate forms, easily destroyed by other influences, survive drying for con- siderable periods (from several weeks upwards). The spore-forming organisms are naturally the most resistant to starvation and drying, and may preserve their vitality and their virulence for years under these conditions. (e) Action of chennical agents.—In the case of food materials it is frequently foimd that substances which are even essential, or at any rate useful, and it may be actually stimulating to the growth of bacteria when present in certain proportions, will, when excessive in amount, inhibit growth or even destroy life. Thus, common salt, which is of extreme importance in the composition of culture media, will, if its percentage be unduly increased, give rise to the production of involution-forms, inhibit growth, and finally cause the death of the organisms concerned. Sugar, again, a natural food-stuff for many bacteria, will, as its concentration is increased, produce similar results. This kind of action may probably be attributed, in great part at any rate, to plasniolysis of the bacteria from alterations in osmotic pressure, for, in the case of other food materials whose concentration does not markedly affect osmotic pressure (e.g. ordinary proteins), no such results accompany the presence of increased percentages. Among substances other than food materials which require to be considered are not only those which are so directly inimical to bacterial life that they are classed as antiseptics, but also the various products