RENAL RADIOGRAMS 627 whole urinary trtict is made. A provisional diagnosis having been made radiographically, the clinical evidence can with benefit be com- pared with that furnished by the X-ray examination, it being of the utmost importance that neither the clinical nor the X-ray evidence should have a prior claim in the diagnosis. It is as wrong to claim that X-ray evidence is infallible as to decide upon operation in the face of strong X-ray evidence to the contrary. Many cases that seem positive on an X-ray examination may prove to be negative when con- sidered clinically, and vice versa. Tlie following cases illustrate this point. In the first case (Plate 39, Fig. 1) the patient had suifered from an attack of renal colic ; the pain subsided, and the urine became normal, a calculus having presumably been passed. X-ray examination revealed a,n opacity in the line of the ureter, which, on operation, proved to be a stone. In a second case (not illustrated) the patient suffered from repeated attacks of renal colic with sickness and hcematuria. X-ray examination on three occasions revealed nothing to suggest renal cal- culus, though on each occasion the outline of the kidney on the affected side was seen to be larger than the normal. The symptoms suggesting so strongly the diagnosis of renal calculus, operation was decided upon, but no calculus was found, the kidney proving to be tuberculous. Plate 39, Fig. 2, is a radiogram of a case in which there was no other symptom than that of pus in the urine. There was neither renal colic, pain in the back, nor sickness, and yet 284 stones were removed from the kidney; these are represented in the radiogram as a mass of rounded opacities in the position indicated. A further example is the following case—that of a patient who during two years had several attacks of definite right renal colic, yet never suffered either from haematuria or increased frequency of micturition. He had passed at least twenty or thirty small calculi, and the urine was found to contain no albumin, pus, or bacteria ; but there were present a number of calcium oxalate crystals. Most of the calculi passed were small and brown, like linseed ; two of them were white and angular in shape. On examination the right kidney was palpable and tender ; the left could not be felt. With the exception of slight tenderness in the iliac fossae, no abnormality was diagnosed, either per rectum or bimanually. X-ray examination (Plate 39, Fig. 3) revealed two opacities, both almost in the line of the ureter, typical in shape and strongly suggesting the presence of impacted calculi. With the cystoscope the bladder was found to be normal ; the ureteric orifices were normal, and there was a clear efflux of urine on both sides. The ureteric catheter was passed withovit obstruction to tlie pelvis of the kidney on either side. In the interpretation of the opacities observed in the renal region, difficulties have to be faced, apart from mere technical faults easily