868 GLANDERS rule, but is not invariable. Severe diarrhoea at the outset suggests infection by ingestion, but gastro-intestinal lesions in man are rare. Infection per vaginam is recorded (Auer). Morbid anatomy—All the tissues of the body are affected. The cutaneous lesions are papular, vesicular, and pustular eruptions, serpiginous ulceration, and local gangrene. In the mucosae there is destructive granulomatous ulceration, rapidly spreading, but with a tendency to heal. Intra- and intermuscular abscesses are common ; the contents are sometimes viscid detritus, yellow, red, grey, or brown in colour ; pus is often thick or curdy. Periosteo-myelitis is not in- frequent ; when the bones of the calvarium are involved there is often an extradural abscess or pachymeningitis. Phlebitis and thrombosis are met with; whilst implication of thel ymphatics, with development in their course—possibly at the valves—of nodular swellings which usually suppurate, is so characteristic that the name "farcy" has been applied to the type of case in which such subcutaneous nodes or " farcy buds " are a prominent feature. The term is unnecessary and should be dropped. At autopsy the liver, spleen, and kidneys fairly often show nodules or abscesses ; tlie testicles but seldom. The lungs generally exhibit patchy areas of pneumonic consolida- tion ; extrapleural suppuration is not rare. The histological appearances resemble, for the most part, those met with in the other granulomas, but vary considerably with the virulence of the strain of bacillus concerned. The peculiar nuclear degeneration Icnown as chromatotaxis is a suggestive feature of the microscopical appearances. Clinical course.—For descriptive purposes it is usual to speak of " acute " and " chronic " glanders. If it be remembered that a common termination of the less severe form is in acute exacerbation, and that any lesion may occur in either type, this distinction may be preserved. Chills, which are usual in the acute form, have also been noted about the time of infection, even in cases of many years' dura- tion. Prostration, which is pronounced when the course is rapid, may also be a striking feature in the presence of a single isolated lesion, such as an intramuscular abscess. Lymphangitis and erysipelatoid tumidity, often noted about the v/ound of entrance, are also of com- mon occurrence—especially about the face and neck, in the late stages of an acute attack (Fig. 239). Broadly spealving, it may be said that the case which runs its course in a few weeks from the com- mencement resembles any other pyaemia. The character of the pyrexia, the malaise, pains in the limbs, tlie delirium, the arthritis, the multiple abscesses, the pneumonia, and finally the generalized cutaneous eruption, which passes from papular to pustular or bullous —especially when these symptoms are combined with fetid catarrh