367 FIBROMA: DIAGNOSIS fibrous tissue renders the possible sites of origin of fil^rous tumours also a very wide one, and thus the position of the growth is rarely a help in diagnosis, whilst, on the other hand, the consistence of the tumour varies so much as to be of little assistance. In many tumours fibrous tissue enters so largely into their structure in the form of the stroma that the macroscopic features of the growth are very similar to those of one composed of fibrous tissue only. As examples, it is only necessary to mention such tumours as some forms of fibro- adenoma of the breast and endothelioma of the parotid. Until histo- logically examined, these tumours may be indistinguishable from a fibroma. Again, many fibrous overgrowths of a chronic inflammatorv nature may closely resemble true fibrous tumours, and indeed the distinction may not be easy even with the microscope. In this connexion it may be pointed out that in a true fibroma the structure is strikingly uniform, whereas in an inflammatory hyperplasia the different stages of the development of the fibrous tissue from the cell elements can be observed, and in some areas the structure may be that of granulation tissue. Moreover, in a fibroma the surrounding tissue elements are displaced without being infiltrated, whereas in an inflammatory fibrous over- growth the special tissue elements of the part, such as muscle fibres, are seen to be incorporated in the fibrous growth. Lastly, great difficulty is met with in endeavouring to draw a sharp line between the fibromas and certain varieties of sarcoma. Some of the latter, especially the small spindle-celled forms, may very closely resemble a fibroma, and indeed certain tumours which were formerly spoken of as " recurrent fibroids " are now known to lie sarcomatous. Further, a tumour regarded as purely fibrous may recur after removal in a more cellular and obviously sarcomatous form, suggesting that the original tumour was in reality of a like nature. From these considerations it will be seen that the greatest caution must be exercised before finally deciding that a tumour is a pure fibroma. Fibrous tumours can arise in almost any part of the body, but the most important sites are the skin and subcutaneous tissue, the fasciae and muscle sheaths, the nerves, the bones, the submucous tissue of certain viscera, and certain organs, such as the ovarv. Fibroma of the skin may be met with as a hard tumour in the cutis, and occasionally as a circumscribed growth in the subcutaneous tissue. A tumour from the latter situation is illustrated in Fig. 44. When growing in the substance of the true skin a fibroma usually forms a slightly raised hard mass covered by the smooth epidermis, which is intimately adherent to its surface.