TREATMENT OF ACUTE URETHRITIS 815 early to pronounce upon a method wliich is still in the experimental stage. 3. Local applications.—Local remedies have always played a large part in the treatment of urethritis, more especially since the microbic origin of the disease was determined ; and there can be no question that the application of remedies directly to the affected part is both rational and highly successful ; for though by means of dietetic and hygienic measures and the administration of balsams the disease can be greatly modified, yet these measures alone are rarely sufficient to bring about a complete cure. If from the mass of suggested remedies we select those which have proved themselves to be of value, we shall find the list to be surj^risingly small. Chief and foremost must be mentioned the old remedy, nitrate of silver. This is one of the most trustworthy of local applications. Unfortunately it is very irritating, even in dilute solutions ; besides which it is readily decomposed by the chlorides present in the jjus. Recently a number of combinations of this salt with various albu- minous bodies have been placed on the market, several of which have proved to be valuable. The great advantage of these combinations is that they cause little or no pain or irritation when injected, and are not decomposed by the pus. Moreover, as they do not produce a coagulation of the albumin, they seem able to penetrate somewhat deeper into the tissues than pure nitrate of silver. The earliest of these preparations, argentamin and argonin, proved to be unstable, but the more recent compounds, protargol, largin, and albargin, are free from this defect. Next to nitrate of silver and its compounds in order of value are solutions of permanganate of potash, sulphate of thallin, oxycyanide of mercury, sulphate of zinc, and sulphate of copper. Such are, in general, the lines on which the treatment of acute gonorrhoea is based. It will now be convenient to consider the details of the treatment under two heads, viz. : (1) when the disease affects the anterior urethra only, and (2) when it affects the posterior urethra. Treatment of acute anterior urethritis. — Although it is unusual for a hospital patient to apply for treatment until the discharge is copious and the disease fairlv advanced, it not infrequently happens that the more intelligent private patient seeks medical aid at the first sign of the disorder. In such a case the surgeon may feel tempted to try and cut short the malady by the application of some strong antiseptic remedy. This so-called abortive treatment has received much attention, and everv few vears its use has been revived ; yet it must be confessed that there is little to be said in its favour, either from a theoretical or from a practical point of view. The gonococci, within even a few hours of the inoculation, penetrate between the