PUNCTURES, LACERATIONS, CONTUSIONS 241 as in the case of truiiclieou wounds, it may be the result of splitting of the soft tissues between a blunt instrument and a flat, bony surface such as the skull, the jjatella, or the shin. Incised wounds may be divided into those in which j^athogenetic organisms may be expected to be present, and those in which there is a fair presumption of tbeii- al)sence. 2. Punctured wounds are caused by bodies penetrating either from without or, as in some compound fractures, from within. Their chisf characteristic is their dejDth as compared with their suj^er- ficial extent, so that a quite small external wound may lead to an extensive internal injury. Owing to the length of the track and the tendency for the superficial parts to close more quickly than the deeper, these wounds are especially liable to tension and suppuration. Moreover, sometimes either the whole or a part of the penetrating instrument remains embedded, e.g. needles, pieces of cloth, etc. Gunshot wounds are punctured wounds of a special character, which will be treated in the next article (p. 274). Perforating wounds are sometimes considered as a subdivision of punctured wounds, and taken to mean those in which the lesion extends to one of the body cavities. 3. A fissure is a splitting wound often due to over-extension, or over-distension. 4. An abrasion is a very superficial laceration only afl'ecting the sk'in or mucous mcml)rane, cornea, or conjunctiva. 5. Lacerated wounds are caused by dragging or tearing, e.g. by machinery or by blows against rough surfaces. They are frequently associated with contusion. The wound has irregular and ragged edges, and is always deeply soiled with ground-in foreign particles. Unlike punctured wounds, the superficial area, except in cases of complete avulsion of a limb, is large in proportion to the depth. The wound has many shreds which, being deprived of their blood sujjply, tend to necrose in a greater or less degree. Ha'morrhage is comparatively slight, owing to speedy retraction of the roughly torn vessels. The prevention of suppuration is diflicult, on account of the damaged and dirt-engrained condition of the tissues. Owing to the necessity for the removal of the injured tissues, healing by granulation is the rule. 6. A contused wound is brought about by injury with a blunt instrument, and only diifers from a laceration in that the bruising element predominates over the tearing. 7. Friction wounds combine the characteristics of laceration and burning ; the wound caused by a rope rushing through the hands may be taken as an example. They are usually painful, and slow to heal. g